REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPR]EM

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1820.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

HOUSTON V. MOORE.
The act of the State of Pennsylvania, of the 28th of March, 1814,
(providing, (see. 2 1.) that the officers and privates of the militia of
that State, neglecting or refusing to serve, when called into actual
service, in pursuance of any order or requisition 9f the President 6k
the United States, shall be liable to the penalties defined in the act
of Congress of the 28th of February, 1795, c 277., or to any penalty
which may have been prescribed since the date of that act, or which
may hereafter he prescribed by any law of the United States, and
also providing for the trial of such delinquents by a State Court
Martial, and that a list of the delinquents fined by such Court should
be furnished to the Marshal of the United States, &c. and also to the
Comptroller of the Treasury of the United States, in order that the
further proceedings directed to be had thereon by the laws of the
United States might be completed,) is not repugnant to the constitution and laws of the United States.

THis was a writ of error to the Supreme Court

of the State of Pennsylvania, in a case where was
drawn in question the validity of a statute of that
VOT?.. V.

.1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

State, on the ground of its repugnancy to the con-

I-Iouston

stitution and laws of the United States, and the

V.
Moore.

decision was in favour of its validity.

The statute

which formed the ground of controversy in the State
court, was passed on the 28th of March, 1814, and
enacts, among other things, (Sec. 21.) that every
non-commissioned officer and private of the militia
who shall have neglected or refused to serve when
called into actual service, in pursuance of any order
or requisition of the President of the United States,
-shall be liable to the penalties defined in the act of
the Congress of the United States, passed on the
28th of February, 1795; and then proceeds to enumerate them, and to each clause adds--" or shall
be liable to any penalty which may have been prescribed since the date of the passing of the said act,

or which may hereafter be prescribed by any law
of the United States." The statute then further
provides that, " within one month after the expiration of the time for which any detachment of mi-

litia shall have been called into the service of the
United States, by or in pursuance of orders from
the President of the United States, the proper brigade inspector shall summon a general or a regi-

mental Court Martial, as the case may be, for the
trial of such person or persons belonging to the de-

tachment called out, who shall have refused or neglected to march therewith, or to furnish a sufficient
substitute; or who, after having marched therewith,
shall have returned, without leave from his commanding officer, of which delinquents the proper
brigade inspector shall furnish to the said Court

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Martial an accurate list. And as soon as the said
Court Martial shall have decided in each of the
cases which shall be submitted to their considerato the Martion, the President thereof shall furnish

shal of the United States, or to his deputy, and also
to the Comptroller of the Treasury of the United
States, a list of the delinquents fined, in order that
the further proceedings directed to be had thereon
by the laws of the United States, may be completed."
Houston, the plaintiff in error, and in the original
suit, was a private, enrolled in the Pennsylvania militia, and belonging to the detachment of the militia
which Was ordered out by the Governor of that
State, in pursuance of a requisition from the President of the United States, dated the 4th of July,
1814. Being duly notified and called upon, he neglected to march with the detachment to the appointed place ol rendezvous. He was tried for this delinquency before a Court Martial summoned under
the authority of the executive of that State, in pursuance of the section of the statute above referred
to. He appeared before the Court Martial, pleaded
not guilty, and was in due form sentenced to pay
a fine; for levying of which on his property, he
brought an action of trespass in the State Court of
Common Pleas, against the Deputy Marshal by
whom it was levied. At the trial in that Court,
the plaintiff prayed the Court to instruct the Jury,
that the first, second, and third paragraphs of the
21st section of the above statute of Pennsylvania,
so far as they related to the militia called into the

1820.
Houston

V.
Moore.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

service of the United States, under the laws of

NarcA15th,

Congress, and who failed to obey the orders of the
President of the United States, are contrary to the
constitution of the United States, and the laws of
Congress made in pursuance thereof, and are, therefore, null and void. The Court instructed the jury
that these paragraphs were not contrary to the constitution or laws of the United States, and were,
therefore, not null and void. A verdict and judgment was thereupon rendered for the defendant,
Moore; which judgment being carried by writ of
error before the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
the highest court of law or equity of that State,
was affirmed; and the cause was then brought before this Court, under the 25th sectidn of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
This cause was argued at the last term, and continued to the present term for advisement.
Mr..Holkins, for the plaintiff in error, argued,

1819.

that the constitutional power of Congress over the

Houston

V.
loore.

militia, is exclusive of State authority, exdept'as to
officering and training them according to the discipline prescribed by Congress. By the constitution of the United States, (art. 1. s. 8.) Congress is
invested with power "to provide for calling forth
the militia, to execute the laws of thd Union, supAnd
press insurrections, and repel invasions."
and
disarming,
organizing,
for
also, "to provide
ciplining the militia, and for governing such part of
them as may be employed in the service of the
United States, reserving to the States respectively

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the appointment of the officers, and the authority of
training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress." The terms " to provide for
calling forth," import an authority to place the militia under the power of the United States; in certain
cases, implying a command, which the militia arq
bound to obey. Congress has exercised this authority by au horizing the President to call forth the
militia in the cases mentioned in the constitution,
and inflicting penalties on those who disobey the call.,
Whenever a draft is made, the persons drafted are
immediately, and to all intents and purposes, in the
service of the United States, and from that moment
all State authority over them ceases. The power to
govern the militia, thus called forth, and employed
in the service of the United States, is exclusively in
the national government. A national militia grew
out of the federal constitution, and did not previously
exist. It is in its very nature one indivisible object,
and of the utmost importance to the support of the
federal authority and government.' But even supposing this power not to be exclusively vested in
Congress, and admitting it to be concurrentbetween
the United States' government, and the respective
State governments; as Congress have legislated on
the subject matter, to the extent of the authority
given, State legislation, which is subordinate, is necessarily excluded. Even where the grant of a certain power to the government of the Union is not,
a Act of the 28th of February, 1795, c. 277. (CI.)
b Livingston v. Van Ingen, 9 Johns. Rep. 507. 565. 575.

1820.
V.
Mopre

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18-20.
Houston

v.

Moore.

in express terms, exclusive, yet 'if the exercise
by that government be practically inconsistent
the exercise of the same power by the States,
laws must yield to the supremacy of the

of it
with
their
laws

of the United States.a Meade's case is an example of the application of the same principle to the
very question now before the Court.' Is it possible
that Congress meant to give power to a State Court,
without naming the Court, or granting the power in
express terms ? The exercise of this jurisdiction
by a State Court Martial would either oust the United States' Courts of their jurisdiction, or might subject the alleged delinquents to be twice tried and punished for the same offence. If the State Court
could try them, the Governor of the State could
pardon them for an offence committed against the
laws of the United States. There is, in various
particulars, a manifest repugnancy between the two
laws. They are in direct collision; and, consequently, the State law is void. Again; if the State
of, Pennsylvania had power to pass the act of the
28th of March, 1814, or the 21st section of that
act, it was superseded by the act of Congress of the
18th of April, 1814, c. 670., occupying the same
ground, and making a more complete provision on
the same subject. These two laws are still more
manifestly repugnant and inconsistent with each
other. Again; if the State law was constitutional,
and not superseded by the act of Congress of the
18th of April, 1814, c. 670. still the treaty of peace
a Livingston v. Van Ingen, 9 Johns. Rep. 507. 565. 575.
5 Hall's Law Journ. 536.

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

between the United States and Great Britain, ratified

i8-20.

in February, 1815, suspended and abrogated all proceedings under the State law.

Houston
V.
M''oore.

Mr. C. J. Ingersoll and Mr. Rogers, contra, insisted, that there were many cases in which the laws
of the United States are carried into effect by State
Courts and State officers; that this was contemplated by the framers of the constitution; -that the
Governor of Pennsylvania, by whom the Court
Martial, in the present case, was summoned, is the
commander in chief of the militia of that State, except when. called into the actual service of the United States. The militia drafted in pursuance of
the requisition of the President were not in actual
service, until mustered, and in the pay of the United
States ; until they reached the place of rendezvous,
and were put under the command of the United
States' officers.. It is not the requisition, but the
obedience to the requisition, which makes the persons drafted amenable to martial law, as a part of
the military force of the Union. When the constitution speaks of the power of "calling forth" the
militia, it means an effectual calling, The plaintiff
was called,*but not called forth. The power invested in Congress, is to determine in what mode
the requisition -shall be made; how the quota of
each State is to be apportioned; from what States
requisitions shall be made in particular cases; and
by what process the call is to be enforced. Congress not having directed the mode by which Courts
Martial are to be summoned and held for the purpose of 6enibreijg it, the States have a coiastitutional

CASES IN THE SUPRE-ME COURT
1820.
Houston

r,

M oore.

authority to supply the omission. Before this
Court proceeds to declare the State law made for
this purpose to be void, it must be satisfied, beyond
all doubt, of its repugnancy to the constitution."
The case must fall within some of the express prohibitory clauses of the constitution, or some of its
clearly implied prohibitions. It must not be the exercise of a political discretion with which the legislature is invested, for that can never become the subject of judicial cognizance. It is insisted, that the
power of Congress over the militia is a concurrent,
and not an exclusive power. All powers, which previously existed in the States, and which are not expressly delegated to the United States, are reserved.'
The power of making laws on the subject of the
militia is not prohibited to the States, and has always
been exercised by them. The necessity of a concurrent jurisdiction in certain cases results from the
peculiar division of the powers of sovereignty in our
government; and the principle, that all authorities of
which the States are not expressly devested in favour
of the Union, or the exercise of which, by the
States, would be repugnant to those granted to the
Union, are reserved to the States, is not only a theoretical consequence of that division, but is clearly
admitted by the whole tenor of the constitution.
The cotemporaneous construction of the constitua Calder et ux. v. Bull et ux. 3 Dali. 399.
Emerick v.
Harris, I Binney, 416. 423. 6 Cranch, 87. Cooper v. Telfair, 4 Dall. 14. 18.
b Livingston et al. v. Van Ingen, 9 Johns. Rep. 501. 665.
573. et seq. 1 Tuck. Bl. Com. Appx. 308.

OF .THE UNITED STATES.

tion, by those who supported its adoption, supposes
the power in question to be concurrent, and not exelusive.a The power of the States over the militia
esis not taken away; it existed in them before the
tablishment of the constitution, and there being no
negative clauge prohibiting its exercise by them, it
still resides in the-States, so far as an exercise of. it
by them is not absolutely repugnant to the authority
of the Union. Before the militia are actually employed in the service of the United States, Congress
has only a power coficurrent with that of the States,
to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining
them. rhe authority of appointing the officers and
training the militia, is expressly reserved to the States,
because, in these respects, it was intended that they
should have an exclusive power. So, also, Congress
has the exclusive power of governing such part of
the militia as may be actually employed in the service of- the United States ; but not until it is thus
actually employed. The power of governing the
militia, is the power of subjecting it to the rules and
articles of war. But it is a principle manifestly
implied in the constitution, that the militia cannot
be subjected to martial law, except when in actual
service, in time of war, rebellion, or invasion.b It
necessarily results from the circumstance of the
power of making provision for organizing, arming,
and disciplining the militia behg concurrent, that if
a Letters of Publius. or the Federalist, Nos. 27. 32. Debates
in the Virginia Convention, 272. 284. 29G. 298.
b I Tucker's B!. aim. 213. Duffield v. Smith. 6 Biane,v.
306.

Yo,.. V

1820.

"st
v.

Moore.

, A-iis-zo.

,.sv,.

.v.
'toorc.

IN TIE S;UPREE COURT

Congress has not legiqlated upon any part of the

subject, the States hai c a right to supply the omis-

sion. 'rhis right has been exercised, in the present
ease, in aid of, and not in hostility to,
the federal au-

thorily. The fines which are collected under the
law, are not appropriated to the use of the State,
but are to be paid into the treasury of the Union.
The power of making uniform laws of naturalization is different from that now under consideration.
The power of naturalization is an authority granted
to the Union, to which a similar authority in the

States would be absolutely and totally repugnant.
A naturalized citizen of one State would be entitled
to all the privileges of a citizen in every other State,
and the greatest confusion would be produced by a
variety of rules on the subject. But even naturalization hasbeen sometimes held to be a power residing
concurrently in the Union and the States, and to be
exercised by the latter in such a way as not to
contravene the rule established by the Union: But
in the present case, the State law is not inconsistent
%
Ith the act of Congress. It comes in Aid of it.
It Lupplies its defects, and r,,medies its imperft'ctions.
It co-operates with it for the promotion of the same
1:ud. '[he offence which is made punishable by the
State lak, is an offence against the State, as well as
the Union. It being the duty of the State to furnish its quota, it has a right to compel the drafted
militia to appear and march. Calling the militia
forth, and governing them after they are in actual ser,: Collet v. Collet, 2 Dal. 294. T96.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vice, are two distinct things. A State law, acting
upon the militia before they have entered into the
actual service of the Union, is so far from interfering
the same
with the power of Congress to legislate on
subject, that it may have, and, we contend, that it
does have, in the present case, a powerful effect ia
aid of the national authority. But it would be almost impossible for the State to enact a law concerning the militia, after they are in the actual service of
the United States, which would not be irreconcilable with the authority of the latter. Even supposing
that Congress should pass a law inflicting one penalty for disobedience to the call, and the State inflict another, they would still both co-operate to the
same end. In practice, the delinquent could not be
punished twice for the same offence; but there would
be no theoretical repugnancy between the two laws.
Congress, in the statutes enacted by them, have not
intended to compel citizens enrolled in the militia to
enter into the actual service of the United States.
It is not a conscription; but a draft, with the option
to the individual to be excused from a specific performance of the duty by the payment of a pecuniary
composition. The acts of Congress are defective
in not providing how, or by whom, Courts Martial
shall be held, for the trial of delinquents, and the
collection of these pecuniary penalties. The State
legislature, acting with a sincere desire to promote
the objects of the national government, supplied
these defects, by adding such details as were indispensably necessary to execute the acts of Congress.

s820.
Houston

More.

CASES IN T11E SUPREME COURT
1820.

"
Houston
V.

Moore.
Feb.
16th.

1.0.

There is, then, a perfect harmony between the two
laws.
a
Thejudgment of titie Court was
delivered at the

present term, by Mr. Justice

WASHINGTON,

who,

after stating the facts of the case, proceeded as follows:
1There is but one question in this cause, and it is,
whether the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania,
under the authority of which the plaintiff in error
was tried, and sentenced to pay a fine, is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, or not ?
But before this question can be clearly understood,
it will be necessary to inquire, 1. What are the
powers granted to the general government, by the
Constitution of the United States, over the militia ?
and, 2. To what extent they have been assumed
and exercised ?
1. The constitution declares, that Congress shall
have power to provide for calling forth the militia
in three specified cases: for organizing, arming, and
disciplining them; and for governing such part of
them as may be employed in the service of the United States ; reserving to the States, respectively, the
appointment of the officers, and the authority of
training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress. It is further provided, that the
President of the United States shall be commander
of the militia, when called into the actual service of
the United States.
2. After the constitution went into operation,
Congress proceeded by inany successive acts to ex-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ercise these powers, and to provide for all the cases
contemplated by the constitution.
The act of the 2d of May, 1792, which is re-enacted almost verbatim by that of the 28th of February, 1795, authorizes the President of the United
States, in case of invasion, or of imminent danger
of it, or when it may be necessary for executing the
laws of the United States, or to suppress insurrections, to call forth such number of the militia of the
States most convenient to the scene of action, as he
may judge necessary, and to issue his orders for that
purpose, to such officer of the militia as he shall
think proper. It prescribes the amount of pay and
allowances of the militia so called forth, and employed in the service of the United States, and subjects them to the rules and articles of war applicable
to the regular troops. It then proceeds to prescribe
the punishment to be inflicted upon delinquents, and
the tribunal which is to try them, by declaring, that
every officer or private who should fail to obey the
orders of the President, in any of the cases before
recited, should be liable to pay a certain fine, to be
determined and adjudged by a Court Martial, and to
be imprisoned, by a like sentence, on faijure of payment. The Courts Martial for the trial of militia,
are to be composed of militia officers only, and the
fines to be certified by the presiding officer of the
court, to the marshal of the district, and to be levied
by him, and, also, to the supervisor, to whom the
fines are to be paid over.
The act of the 18th of April, 1814, provides, that
Courts Martial, to be composed of militia officers

1820.
Houston

v.
Moore.

CASES IN THE SUPIREME COURT
1820.
'4uton

V.

MIoore.

only, for the trial of militia, drafted, detached and
called Jbrth Jor the service of the United States,
whether acting in conjunction with the regular
forces or otherwise, shall, whenever necessary, be
appointed, held, and conducted in the manner prescribed by the rules and articles of war, for appointtug, holding and conducting Courts Martial for the
trial of delinquents in the army of the United States.
Where the punishment prescribed, is by stoppage of
pay, or imposing a fine limited by the amount of pay,
the same is to have relation to the monthly pay ex-

isting at the time the offence was committed.

The

'esidue of the act is employed in prescribing the
manner of conducting the trial; the rules of evidence for the government of the Court; the time of
service, and other matters not so material to the present inquiry. The only remaining act of Congress
which it will be necessary to notice in this general
summary of the laws, is that of the 8th of May, 1792,
for establishing an uniform militia in the United
States. It declares who shall be subject to be enrolled in the militia, and who shall be-exempt; what
arms and accoutrements the officers and privates
shall provide themselves with; arranges them into
divisions, brigades, regiments, battalions, and companies, in such manner as the State legislatures may
direct; declares the rules of discipline by which the
militia is to be governed, and makes provision for
such as should be disabled whilst in the actual service of the United States. The pay and subsistence of the militia, whilst in service, are provided

OF THE UNITED STATES,

for by other acts of Congress, and particularly by
1820.
one passed on the third of January, 1795.
Houston
v.
The laws which I have referred to, amount to a
full execution of the powers conferred upon Con- Moore.
gress by the constitution. They provide for calling
forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union,
suppress insurrections, and repel invasion. They
also provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining
the militia, and for governing such part of them as
may be employed in the service of the United States;
leaving to the States respectively, the appointment
of the officers, and the authority of training them
according to the discipline prescribed by Congress.
This system may not be formed with as much
wisdom as, in the opinion of some, it might have
been, or as time and experience may hereafter suggest. But to my apprehension, the whole ground
of Congressional legislation is covered by the laws
referred to. The manner in which the militia is to
be organized, armed, disciplined, and governed, is
fully prescribed; provisions are made for drafting,
detaching, and calling forth the State quotas, when
required by the President. The President's orders
may be given to the chief executive magistrate of
the State, or to any militia officer he may think proper; neglect, or refusal to obey orders, is declared to
be an offence against the laws of the United states,
and subjects the offender to trial, sentence and punishment, to be adjudged by a Court Martial, to be
summoned in tle way pointed out by the articles
and rules of war; and the mode of proceeding to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

Hloustoni
V.
Moore_-

be observed bv these courts, is detailed with all necessary perspicuity.
If I am not mistaken in this view of the subject,
the way is now open for the examination of the
great question in the cause. Is it competent to a
Court Martial, deriving its jurisdiction under State
authority, to try, and to punish militia men, drafted,
detached, and called forth by the President into the
service of the United States, who have refused, or
neglected to obey the call ?
In support of thejudgment of the Court below, I
understand the leading arguments to be the two following: I. That militia men, when called into the
service of the United States by the President's orders,
communicated either to the executive magistrateor
to any inferior militia officer of a State, are not to
be considered as being in the service of the United
States until they are mustered at the place of rendezvous. If this be so, then, 2dly. The State retains a right, concurrent with the government of the
United States, to punish his delinquency.. It is admitted on the one side, that so long as the militia are
acting under the military jurisdiction of the State to
which they belong, the powers of legislation over
them are concurrent in the general and State government. Congress has power to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining them; and this power
being unlimited, except in the two particulars of
officering and training them, according to the discipline to be prescribed by Congress, it may be exercised to any extent that may be deemed necessary
by Congress. But as State militia, the power of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the State governments to legislate on the same subjects, having existed prior to the formation of the
constitution, and not having been prohibited by that
subordinate
instrument, it remains with the States,
nevertheless to the paramount law of the general
government, operating upon the same subject. On
the other side, it is conceded, that after a detachment
of the militia have been called forth, and have entered into the service of the United States, the authority of the general government over such detachment is exclusive. This is also obvious. Over the
national militia, the State governments never had,
or could have, jurisdiction. None such is conferred
by the constitution of the United States; consequently, none such can exist.
'The first qu,.stion then is, at what time, and under
what circumstances, does a portion of militia, drafted,-detached, and calh d forth by the President, enter into the servic.- of the United States, and change
their character from State to National militia?
That Congress might by law have fixed the period,
by confining it to the draft; the order given to the
Chief Magistrate, or other militia officer ofthe State;
to the arrival of the men at the place of rendezvous;
or to any other circumstance, I can entertain no
doubt. This would certainly be included in the
more extensive powers of calling forth the militia,
organizing, arming, disciplining, and governing
them. But has Congress made any declaration on
this subject, and in what manner is the will of that
body, as expressed in the before mentioned laws, to
be construed ? It must be conceded, that there is
VOL. V.

3

1&-2o.

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18O.

no law of the United States which declares in ex-

press terms, that the organizing, arming, and equipV.
ping a dtc
detachmeut, on the order of the President to
-Moore.pn

Houston

the'State militia officers, or to the militia men personally, places them in the service of the United
States. It is true, that the refusal or neglect of the
militia to obey the orders of the President, is declared to be an offence against the United States,
and sulects the offcndr " to a certain prescribed punishinent. But this flows from the power bestowed
upon the general governmnt to cull them forth; and,
consequetly, to punish disobedience to a legal order; and by no means proves, that the call of the
President places the detachment in the service of the
United States. But although Congress has been
less explicit on this subject than they might have
been, and it could be wished they had been, I am,
nevertheless, of opinion, that a fair construction of
the different militia laws of the United States, will
lead to a conclusion, that something more than organizing and equipping a detachment, and ordering
it into service, was considered as necessary to place
the militia in the service of the United States. That
preparing a detachment for such service, does not
place it in the service, is clearly to be collected from
the various temporary laws which have been passed,
authorizing the President to require of the State executives to organize, arm, and equip their State
quotas of militia for the service of the United States.
Because they all provide that the requisition shall be
to hold such quotas in readiness to march at a moInent's warning ; and same, if not all of them,, au-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

thorize the President to call into actual service any
1820.
part, or the whole of said quotas, or detachments; H
clearly distinguishing between the orders of the
,.
President to organize, and hold the detachments in Moor.
readinessfor service, and their entering into service.
The act of the 28th of February, 1795, declares,
that the militia employed in the service of the United
States, shall receive the same pay and allowance as
the troops of the United States, and shall be subject
to the same rules and articles of war. The provisions made for disabled militia men, and for their
families, in case of their death, are, by other laws,
confined to such militia as are, or have been, in actual
service. There are other laws which seem very
strongly to indicate the time at which they are considered as being in service. Thus, the act of the
28th of February, 1795, declares, that a militia man
called into the service of the United States, shall not
be compelled to serve more than three months after
his anival at the place of rendezvous, in any one
year. The 8th section of the act of the 18th of
April, 1814, declares, that the militia, when called
into the service of the United States, if, in the President's opinion, the public interest requires it, may be
compelled to serve for a term not exceeding six
months, after their arrivalat the place of rendezvous,
in any one year; and by the 10th section, provision is
made for the expenses which may be incurred by
marching the militia to their places of rendezvous,
in pursuance of a requisition of the President, and
they are to be adjusted and paid in like manner as
those incurred after thbir arrival at the rendezvous.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
Dlouston
V.

Moore.

The 3d section of the act of the 2d of January,
1795, provides, that whenever the militia shall be
called into the actual service of the United States,
their pay shall be deemed to commencefrom the day
of their appearingat the place of battalion, rqimen-

tal, or brigade rendezvous, allowing a day's pay and
ration for every 15 miles from their homes to said
rendezvous.
From this brief summary of the laws, it would
seem, that actual service was considered by Congress as the criterion of national militia ; and that
the service did not commence until the arrival of the
militia at the place of rendezvous. That is the
terminus a quo, the service, the pay, and subjection
tp the articles of war, are to commence and con-

tinue. If the service, in particular, is to continue
for a certain length of time, from a certain day, it
would seem to follow, almost conclusively, that the
service commenced on that, and not on some prior
day. And, indeed, it would seem to border somewhat upon an absurdity, to say, that a militia man
was in the service of the United States at any time,
who, so far from entering into it for a single moment,

had refused to do so, and who never did any act to
connect him with such service. It has already been
admitted, that if Congress had pleased so to declare,
a militia man, called into the service of the United
States, might have been held and considered as being
constructively in that service, though not actually
so; and might have been treated in like manner as
if he had appeared at the place of rendezvous. But
Congress has not so declated, nor have they made

OF THE UNITED STATES.

any provision applicable to such a case ; on the contrary, it would appear, that a fine to be paid by the
delinquent militia man, was deemed an equivalent
for his services, and an atonement for his disobedience.
If, then, a militia man, called into the service of
the United States, shall refuse to obey the order, and
is, consequently, not to be considered as in the service of the United States, or removed from the military jurisdiction of the state to which be belongs,
the next question is, is it competent to the State to
provide for trying and punishing him.for his disobedience, by a Court Martial, deriving its authority
under the State P It may be admitted at once, that
the militia belong to the States, respectively, in
which they are enrolled, and that they are subject,
both in their civil and military capacities, to the
jurisdiction and laws of such State, except so far as
those laws are controlled by acts of Congress constitutionally made. Congress has power to provide
for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia;
and it is presumable, that the framers of the consti
tution contemplated a full exercise of all these powers. Nevertheless, if Congress had declined to exercise them, it was competent to the State governments to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining their respective militia, in such manner as
they might think proper. But Congress has provided.for all these subjects, in the way which that
.body must have supposed the best calculated to promote the general welfare, and to provide for the national defence. After this, can the State govern-

1820.

Houston

Ma"re,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ments enter upon the same ground-provide for the
liouston same objects as they may think proper, and punish
in their own way violations of the laws they have
Moore.
so enacted ? The affirmative of this question is
asserted by the defendant's counsel, who, it is understood, contend, that unless such State laws are in
direct contradiction to those of the United States,
they are not repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States.
From this doctrine, I must, for one, be permitted
to dissent. The two laws may not be in such
absolute opposition to each other, as to render
the one incapable of execution, without violating
the injunctions of the other ; and yet, the will of
the one legislature may be in direct collision with
that of the other. This witl is to be discovered as
well by what the legislature has not declared, as by
what they have expressed. Congress, for example,
has declared, that the punishment for disobedience
of the act of Congress, shall be a certain fine; if that
provided by the State legislature for the same offence
be a siniilar fine, with the addition of imprisonment
or death, the latter law would not prevent the former from being carried into execution, and may be
said, therefore, not to be repugnant to it. But surely
the will of Congress is, nevertheless, thwarted and
opposed.
This question does not so much involve a contest
for power between the two governments, as the
riglts and privileges of the citizen, secured to him
by the Constitution of the United States, the benefit
of which he may lawfully claim.
1820.

OF TE UNITED STATES.

1820.
If, in a specified case, the people have thought
proper to bestow certain powers on Congress as the ilouston
safest depositary of them, and Congress has legis- Moore.
lated within the scope of them, the people have reason to complain that the same powers should be exercised at the same time by the State legislatures.
To subject them to the operation of two laws upon
the same subject, dictated by distinct wills, particularly in a case inflicting pains and penalties, is, to
my apprehension, something very much like oppression) if not worse. In short, I am altogether incapable of comprehending how two distinct wills can,
at the same time, be exercised in relation to the
same subject, to be effectual, and at the same time
compatible with each other. If they correspond in
every respect, then the latter is idle and inoperatiie ;
if they differ, they must, in the nature of things,
oppose each other, so far as they do differ. If the
one imposes a certain punishment for a certain of'fence, the presumption is, that this was deemed sufficient, and, under all circumstances, the only proper
one. If the other legislature impose a different
punishment, in kind or degree, I am at a loss to conceiVe how they can both consist harmoniously together.
I admit that a legislative body may, by different
laws, impose upon the same person, for the same
offence, different and cumulative punishments; but
then it is the will of the same body to do so, and the
second, equally with the first law, is the will of that
body. There is, therefore, and can be, no opposition
of wills. ' But the case is altogether different, where

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

the laws flow from the wills of distinct, co-ordinate

"Z
Houston ' bodies.
-.

This course of reasoning is intended as an answer
to what I consider a novel and unconstitutional
doctrine, that in cases where the State governments
have a concurrent power of legislation with the national government, they may legislate upon any subject on which Congress has acted, provided the two
laws are not in terms, or in their operation, contradictory and repugnant to each other.
Upon the subject of the militia, Congress has exercised the powers conferred on that body by the
constitution, as fully as was thought right, and has
thus excluded the power of legislation by the States
on these subjects, except so far as it has been permitted by Congress; although it should be conceded,
that important provisions have been omitted, or that
others which have been made might have been more
extended, or more wisely devised.
There still remains another question to be considered, which more immediately involves the merits
of this cause. Admit that the legislaturc of Pennsylvania could not constitutionally legislate in respect
to delinquent militia men, and to prescribe the punishment to which they should be subject, had the State
Court Martial jurisdiction over the subject, so as to
enforce the laws of Congress againstthese delinquents ?
This, it will be seen, is a different question from
that which has been just examined. That respects
the power of a State legislature to legislate upon a
subject, on which Congress has declared its will.
This congerns the jurisdiction of a State military tri-

OF TIHE UNITED STATES.

bunal to adjudicate in a case which depends on a
law of Congress, and to enforce it.
It has been already shown that Congress has preon a militia
stribed the punishment to be inflicted
man detached and called forth, but who has refused
to march ; and has also provided that Courts Martial
for the trial of such delinquents, to be composed of
militia officers only, shall be held and conducted in
the manner pointed out by the rules and articles of
war.
That Congress might have vested the exclusive
jurisdiction in Courts Martial to be held and conducted as the laws of the United States have prescribed, will, I presume, hardly be questioned. The
offence to be punished grows out of the constitution
and laws of the United States, and is, therefore, clearly
a case which might have been withdrawn from the
concurrent jurisdiction of the State tribunals. But
an exclusive jurisdiction is not given to Courts Martial, deriving their authority under the national government, by express words :-the question then (and
I admit the difficulty of it) occurs, is this a case in
which the State Courts Martial could exercise jurisdiction ?
Speaking upon the subject of the federal judiciary,
the Federalistdistinctly asserts the doctrine, that the
United States, in the course of legislation upon the
objects entrusted to their direction, may cbmmit the
decision of causes arising upon a particular regulation to the federal Courts solely, if it should be
deemed expedient, yet that in every case, in which
the 9tate tribunals should not be expressly exjr°.

V

4

1820.
H-ouston

M.

CA.-,ES IN TIHE SUPREME COURT
1so.

Houston
r.
M oore.

cluded by the acts of the national legislature, they
would, of course, take cognizance of the causes to
which those acts might
Z give birth."
I can discover, I confess, nothing unreasonable in
this doctrine; nor can I perceive any inconvenience
which can grow out of it, so long as the power of
Congress to withdraw the whole, or any part of those
cases, from the jurisdiction of the State Courts, is, as
I think it must be, admitted.
The practice of the general government seems
strongly to confirm this doctrine ; for at the first session of Congress which commenced after the adoption of the constitution, the judicial system was
formed ; and the exclusive and concurrent jurisdiction conferred upon the Courts created by that law,
were clearly distinguished and marked; showing
that, in the opinion of that body, it was not sufficient to vest an exclusive jurisdiction, where it was
deemed proper, merely by a grant of jurisdictiou
generally. In particular, this law grants exclusive
jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts of all crimes and
offences cognizable under the authority of the United
States, except where the laws of the United States
should otherwise provide; and this will account for
the proviso in the act of the 24th of February, 1807,
cl. 75., concerning the lbrgery of the notes of
the Bank of the United States, "that nothing in
that act contained should be construed to deprive
the courts of the individual States of jurisdiction under the laws of the several States over
offences made punishable by that act." A similar
proviso is to be found in the act of the 21st of April.
a Tetters .I Publinv'. or te Feder,,Il,

Ve 8

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1806, ch. 49., concerning the counterfeiters of 182).
the current coin of the United States. It is clear %
Houston
V.
that, in the opinion of Congress, this saving was
Moore.
of
exercise
the
authorize
necessary in order to
concurrent jurisdiction by the State Courts over
those offences ; and there can be very little doubt but
that this opinion was well founded. The judiciary
act had vested in the federal courts exclusive jurisdiction of all offences cognizable under the authority
of the United States, unless where the laws of the
United States should otherwise direct. The States
could not, therefore, exercise a concurrent jurisdiction in those cases, without coming into direct collision with the laws of Congress. But by these savings Congress did provide, that the jurisdiction of
the federal Courts in the specified cases should not
be exclusive ; and the concurrent jurisdiction of the
State Courts was instantly restored, so far as, under
State authority, it could be exercised by them.
There are many other acts of Congress which permit jurisdiction over the. offences therein described,
to be exercised by State magistrates and Courts ; not,
I presume, because such permission was considered
to be necessary under the constitution, in order to vest
a concurrent jurisdiction in those tribunals; but because, without it, the jurisdiction was exclusively
vested in the national Courts by the judiciary act, and
conse.quently could not be otherwise exercised by
the State Courts. For I hold it to be perfectly clear,
that Congress cannot confer jurisdiction upon any
Courts, but such as exist under the constitution and
laws of the United States, although the State Courts

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT
iS20

Hlouston

V.

may exercise jurisdiction on cases authorized by the
laws of the State and not prohibited by the exclusive
jurisdiction of the federal Courts.

What, then, is the real object of the law of Pennsylvania which we are considering? I answer, to
confer authority upon a State Court Martial to enforce the laws of the United States against delinquent
militia men, who bad disobeyed the call of the President to enter into the service of the United States;
for, except the provisions for vesting this jurisdiction
in such a Court, this act is, in substance, a re-enactment of the acts of Congress, as to the description of
the offence, the nature and extent of the punishment,
and the collection and appropriation of the fines imposed.
Why might not this Court Martial exercise the authority thus vested in it by this law? As to
crimes and offences against the United States, the
law of Congress had vested the cognizance of them
exclusively in the federal Courts. The State Courts,
therefore, could exercise no jurisdiction whatever
over such offences, unless where, in particular cases,
other laws of the United States had otherwise provided ; and wherever such provision was made, the
claim of exclusive jurisdiction to the particular cases
was withdrawn by the United States, and the concurrent jurisdiction of the State Courts was eo instanti
restored, not by way of grant from the national government, but by the removal of a disability before
imposed upon the State tribunals.
But military offences are not included in the act
of Congress, conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
and District Courts ; no person has ever contended
4
that such offences are cognizable before the common Houston
IV.
law Courts. The militia laws have, therefore, proMoore.
vided, that the offence of disobedience to the President's call upon the militia, shall be cognizable by
a Court Martial of the United States; but an exclusive cognizance is not conferred upon that Court,
as it had been upon the common law Courts as to
other offences, by the judiciary act. It follows, then,
as I conceive, that jurisdiction over this offence remains to be concurrently exercised by the national
and State Courts Martial, since it is authorized by
the laws of the State, and not prohibited by those of
the United States. Where is the repugnance of the
one law to the other? The jurisdiction was clearly
concurrent over militia men, not engaged in the service of the United- States; and the acts of Congress
have *not disturbed this state of things, by asserting
an exclusive jurisdiction. They certainly have not
done so in terms ; and I do not think that it can. be
made out by any fair construction of them. The
act of 1795 merely declares, that this offence shall
be tried by a Court Martial. This was clearly not
exclusive; but, on the contrary, it would seem to
import, that such Court might be held under national], or State authority.
The act of 181Li does not render the jurisdiction
necessarily exclusive. It provides, that Courts Martial for the trial of militia, drafted and called forth,
shall, when necessary, be appointed, held, and conducted, in the manner prescribed by the rules of war.
If the mere assignment of jurisdiction to a particu-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
Houston

V.

Moore.

lar Court, does not necessarily render it exclusive,
as I have already endeavoured to prove, then it would
follow, that this law can have no such effect; unless,
indeed, there is a difference in this respect between
the same language, when applied to military, and to
civil Courts; and if there be a difference, I have not
been able to perceive it. But the law uses the expression " when necessary ?" How is this to be
understood? It may mean, I acknowledge, whenever there are delinquents to try; but, surely, if it import no more than this, it was very unnecessarily
used, since it would have been sufficient to say, that
Courts Martial for the trial of militia called into service, should be formed and conducted in the manner
prescribed by the law. The act of 1795, had declared who were liable to be tried, but had not said
with precision before what Court the trial should be
had. This act describes the Court; and the two
laws being construed together, would seem to mean
that every such delinquent as is described in the act
of 1795, should pay a certain fine, to be determined
and adjudged by a Court Martial, to be composed of
militia officers, to be appointed and conducted in the
manner prescribed by the articles of war. These
words, when necessary, have no definite meaning, if
they are confined to the existence of cases for trial
beforethe Court. But if they be construed (as I think
they ought to be) to apply to trials rendered necessary
by the omission of the States to provide for State
Courts Martial to exercise a jurisdiction in the case,
or of such Courts to take cognizance of them, when
so authorized, they have an important, and a usefil

OF THE UNITED STATES.

meaning. If the State Court Martial proceeds to
take cognizance of the cases, it may not appear necessary to the proper officer in the service of the
United States, to summon a Court to try the same
cases ; if they do not, or for want of authority cannot try them, then it may be deemed necessary to
convene a Court Martial under the articles of war,
to take, and to exercise the jurisdiction.
There are two objections which were made by the
plaintiff's counsel, to the exercise of jurisdiction in
this case, by the State Court Martial, which remain
to be noticed.
1. It was contended, that if the exercise of this
jurisdiction be admitted, that the sentence of the
Court would either oust the jurisdiction of the
United States' Court Martial, or might subject
the accused to be twice tried for the same offence. To this I answer, that, if the jurisdiction
of the two Courts be concurrent, the sentence of
either Court, either of conviction or acquittal, might
be pleaded in bar of the prosecution before the other,
as much so as the judgment of a State Court, in a
civil case of concurrent jurisdiction, may be pleaded
in bar of an action for the same cause, instituted in
a Circuit Court of the United States.
Another objection is, that if the State Court Martial had authority to try these men, the Governor of
that State, in case of conviction, might have pardoned them. I am by no means satisfied that lie
could have done so; but if he could, this would only
furnish a reason why Congress should vest the jurisdiction in these cases, exclusively in a Court Martial acting under the authority of the United States.

1820.

V.
Moore.

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
182o.

Hi-ston

V.

Upon the whole, I am of opinion, after the most
laborious examination of this delicate question, that
the State Court Martial had a concurrent jurisdiction with the tribunal pointed out by the acts
of Congress to try a militia man who had disobeyed the
call of the President, and to enforce the laws of Congress against such delinquent; and that this authority
will remain to be so exercised until it shall please
Congress to vest it exclusively elsewhere, or until
the State of Pennsylvania shall withdraw from their
Court Martial the authority to take such jurisdiction.
At all events, this is not one of those clear cAses of
repugnance to the Constitution of the United States,
where I should feel myself at liberty to declare the
law to be unconstitutional; the sentence of the Court
coram non judice; and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania erroneous on these
grounds.
Two of the judges are of opinion'that the law
in question is unconstitutional, and that the judgment
below ought to be reversed.
The other judges are of opinion, that the judgment ought to be affirmed; but they do not concur
in all respects in the reasons which influence my
opinion.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON . It is not very easy to form
a distinct idea of what the question in this case really
is. An individual having offended against a law of
his own State, has been cited before a Court constituted under the laws of that State, and there convicted
and fined., His complaint is, that his offene was an

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
offence against the laws of the United States, that he
is liable to be punished under those laws, and can- Houston
V.
not, therefore, be constitutionally punished under
Moore.
State.
own
his
of
the laws
If any right secured to him under the State constitution has been violated, it is not our affair. His
complaint before this Court must be either that some
law, or some constitutional provision of the United
States, has been violated in this instance; or he must
seek elsewhere for redress. This Court can relieve
him only upon the supposition that the State law
under which he has been fined is inconsistent with
some right secured to him, or secured to the United
States, under the constitution. Now, the United
States complain of nothing; the act of Pennsylvania
wasacandid, spontaneous, ancillary effort in the service of the United States; and all the plaintiff in
error has to complain of is, that he has been punished by a State law, when he ought to have been
punished under a law of the United States, which he
contends he has violated.
I really have not been able to satisfy myself that
it is any case at all for the cognizance of this Court;
but from respect for the opinion of others, I will proceed to make some remarks on the questions which
have been raised in the argument.
Why may not the same offence be made punishable both under the laws of the States, and of the
United States ? Every citizen of a State owes a
double allegiance; he enjoys -the protection and participates in the government of both the State and the
United States. It is obvious, that in those cases in
VOL. V.

53

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
182o.

V.

Moore.

which the United States may exercise the right of
exclusive legislation, it will rest with Congress to determine whether the general government shall exercise the right of punishing exclusively, or leave the
States at liberty to exercise their own discretion.
But where the United States cannot assume, or
where they havenot assumed, this exclusive exercise
of power, I cannot imagine a reason why the States
may not also, if they feel themselves injured by the
same offence, assert their right of inflicting punishment also. In cases affecting life or member, there
is an express restraint upon the exercise of the punishing power. But it is a restriction which operates
equally upon both governments; and according to a
very familiar principle of construction, this exception
would seem to establish the existence of the general
right. The actual exercise of this concurrent right
of punishing is familiar to every day's practice. The
laws of the United States have made many offences
punishable in their Courts, which were and still continue punishable under the laws of the States. Witness the case of counterfeiting the current coin of
the United States, under the act of April 21st, 1806,
in which the State right of punishing is expressly
recognized and preserved. Witness also the crime
of robbing the mail on the highway, which is unquestionably cognizable as highway-robbery under
the State laws, although made punishable under
those of the United States.
With regard to militia men ordered into service,
there exists a peculiar propriety in leaving them subject to the coercive regulations of both governments.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The safety of each is so worked up with that of all
the States, and the honour and peculiar safety of a
particular State may so often be dependant upon the
alacrity with which her citizens repair to the field,
that the most serious mortifications and evils might
result from refusing the right of lending the strength
of the State authority to quicken their obedience to
the calls of the United States.
But, it is contended, if the States can at all legislate or adjudicate on the subject, they may affect to
aid, when Ctheir real object is nothing less than to
embarrass, the progress of the general government.
I acknowledge myself at a loss to imagine how
this could ever be successfully attempted. Opposi 7
tion, whether disguised or real, is the same thing. It
is true, if we could admit that an acquittal in the
State Courts could be pleaded in bar to a prosecution in the Courts of the United States, the evil might
occur. But this is a doctrine which can only be
maintained on the ground that an offence against
the laws of the one government, is an offence against
the other government ; and can surely never be successfully asserted in any instances but those in which
jurisdiction is vested in the State Courts by statutory
provisions of the United States. In contracts, the
law is otherwise. The decision of any Court of competent jurisdiction is final, whatever be the government that gives existence to the Court. But crimes
against a government are only cognizable in its
own Courts, or in those which derive their right
of holding jurisdiction from the offended governiept.

m820.
•Houston

V.
Moore.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUIT

36
1820.
h ouston

.

Mooro.

Yet, were it otherwise, I cannot perceive with what
correctness we can, fiom the possible abuse of a
power, reason away the actual possession of it in
the States. Such considerations were only proper for
the ears of those who established the actual distribution of powers between the States and the United
States. The absurdities that might grow out of an
affected co-operation in the States, with a real view
to produce embarrassment, furnish the best guaranty
against the probability of its ever being attempted, and
the surest means of detecting and defeating it. We
may declare defects in the constitution, without being
justly chargeable with creating them; but if they exist, it is not for us to correct them. In the present
instance, I believe the danger imaginary, and if it is
not, it must pass ad aliud examen.
But whatever be the views entertained on this
question, I am perfectly satisfied that the individual
in this case was not amenable to any law of the United States. Both that there was no law of the United States that reached his case, and that there was
nothing done or intended to be done by the government of the United States, to bring him within their
laws, before he reached the place of rendezvous.
It is obvious that there are two ways by which the
militia may be called into service; the one is under
State authority, the other under authority of the
The power of Congress over the
United States.
militia is limited but by two reservations in favour
of the States, viz. the riht of officering and that of
training them. When distributed by the States under their own officers the general government have

OF THE UNITED STATES..

iseo.
the right, if they choose to exercise it, of desgtating
oto.
both the officer and private who shall serve, and to
VBut
call him forth or punish him for not coming.
the possession of this power, or even the passing of Moore.
laws in the exercise of it, does not preclude the general government from leaning upon the State authority, if they think proper, for the purpose of calling the militia into service. They may command or
request; and in the case before us, they obviously
confined themselves to the latter mode. Indeed, extensive as their power over the militia is, the United
States are obviously intended to be made in some
measure dependant upon the States for the aid of this
species of force. For, if the States will not officer
or train their men, there is no power given to Congress to supply the deficiency.
The method of calling forth the militia by requisition, is, it is belieed, the only one hitherto resorted
to in any instance. Being partially dependant upon
the integrity of the States, the general govetnment
has hitherto been satisfied to rest wholly on that integrity, and, except in very few instances, has never
been disappointed. The compulsory power has been
in its practice held in reserve, as only intended for
use when the other shall fail. Historically it is known
that the act of 1795 was passed with a view to a
state of things then existing in the interior of Pennsylvania, when it became probable that the President
of the United States would have to exert the authority of the general government immediately on
detached portions of the officers or militia of the
Union, to aid in the execution of the laws of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

Houston

.
-

Moore.

the United States. And instances may still occur in
which the exercise of that power may become necessary for the same purpose. But, whenever bodies
of militia have been called forth for the purposes of
general defence, it is believed, that in no instance has
it been dope otherwise than by requisition, the only
mode practised toward the States from the commencement of the revolution to the present day.
That it was the mode intended to be pursued in this
case, is obvious from the perusal of the letter of the
Secretary of War to the Governor of Pennsylvania. The wvords made use of are: "1The President
a Letter from

the Secretary of War, to the Governor of Pennsylvania.
" War Department, July 4, 1814-.

CSIR,

"The late pacification in Europe offers to the enemy a large
disposable force, both naval and military, and with it the means
of giving to the war here, a character of new and increased
activity- and extent.
- Without knowing, with certainty, that such will be its application, and still less, that any particular point or points will
become objects of attack ; the President has deemed it advisable, as a measure of precaution, to strengthen ourselves on the
line of the Atlantic ; and (as the principal means of doing this
will be found in the militia) to invite the executives of certain
States to organize and hold in readiness for immediate service
a corps of ninety-three thousand five hundred men, under the
laws of the 28th of February, 1795, and the 18th of April,
1814.
" -'he enclosed detail will show your Excellency what, under this requisition, will be the quota of Pennsylvania. As far
as volunteer uniform companies can be found, they will be preferred. The expediency of regarding (as well in the designa-

OF T'HE UNITED STATES.

has deemed it advisable to invite the Executives of
certain States to organize," &c. : Words which no
military man would construe into a military cornmand.
It is true, that this letter also refers to the acts of
1795 and 1814, as the authority under which the requisition is made, and the act of 1795 authorises the
President to issue his order for that purpose: but
this makes no difference in the case ; it only leaves
him the power of proceeding by order if he thinks
proper, without enjoining that mode, or depriving
him of the option to pursue the other mode as long
as the principles upon which the States acted were
such as to render it advisable. Or, if the construction be otherwise, the result only will be, that the
President has not pursued the mode pointed outby that
act, and, therefore, has not brought the case within it.
But suppose the letter of the Secretary of War
was intended by him to operate as an order, (although
I cannot believe that Congress ever intended an order sbould issue immediately to the Governor of a
tions of the militia, as of their places of rendezvous,) the points,
the importance or exposure of which will be most likely to
attract the views of the enemy, need but be suggested.

" A report of the organization of your quota, when comple.
ted, and of its place, or places of rendezvous, will be acceptable.
"I have the honour to be, &c.
(Signed)
"JOHN ARMSTRONG.
"P. S. The points to be defended, by the quota from Pennsylvania, will be the shores of the Delaware, Baltimore, and
this city."

1820.
Hcustdn

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

State,) how is this individual made punishable under

Houston

the acts of 1795 and 1814?
The doctrine must be admitted, that Congress might,

Ioore.

if they thought proper, have authorized the issuing of
the President's order even to the Governor. For when
the constitution of Pennsylvania makes her Governor
commander in chief of the militia, it must subject hina
in that capacity (at least when in actual service) to the
orders of him who is made commander in chief of
all the militia of the Union. Yet if he is to be addressed in that capacity, and not as the general organ
or representative of the State sovereignty, surely he
has a right to be apprised of it. But is he then to
be charged as a delinquent? Where is the law that
has provided, or can provide, a Court Martial for his
trial ? And where is the law that would oblige him
to consider such a letter as this a military order ?
It would then seem somewhat strange, if lie, to whom
this letter was immediately addressed, received no
order from the President, that one to whom his order was transmitted through fifty grades, should yet
be adjudged to have disobeyed the President'sorder.
But the situation of the private in this case, is still
more favourable. It must be recollected we are now
iconstruing a penal statute. And the criminality of
the person charged, depends altogether on the 5th
section of the act of 1795. The 1st section of the
act of 1814, makes no difference in this particular,
inasmuch as it does no more than create a tribunal
for the trial of crimes, and supposes the commission
of such crimes to be against the provisions of some
existing law. The comnmard of the Presidentthen,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

I hold to have been indispensable to the creation of
an offence under the 5th section of this act. Bilt
how the President could, in the actual state of things, .
have issued such a command to the private, consistently with the provisions of this act, it is not easy to
show. For, by the section immediately preceding the
5th, it is provided, " That no officer, non-commissioned officer or private of the militia, shall be compelled to serve more than three months, after his arrival at the place of rendezvous, in any one year,
nor more than in due rotation with every other able
bodied man of the same rank in the battalion to which
-hebelongs." Now, what was meant by due rotation?
and how was the President's order to reach the individual without previously establishing this due rotation ? I admit, that this rotation may have been
established, through the aid of a State law; but it
became indispensable that such law should have been
authorized or adopted by some law of Congress;
and there exists no law that I know of, either authorizing or requiring the designation or distribution by
the States, which this law contemplates. On a call
of the whole militia, there would have been no difficulty; but in the case of a partial call, some designation legally known to the President became indispensable, before he could issue his orders with
that precision which may well be required in a criminal prosecution. And this probably operated as
forcibly as considerations of comity, in determining
the government to proceed by the ancient mode of
requisition, instead of addressing the executive of
Pennsylvania in the language of command and auVoL. V.

6

1820.

Houston
1

V.

oore,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
182o.
Houston

1.

MIoore.

thority ; if, indeed, (what I will not readily admit,)
the act was ever intended to apply to the case of an

immediate order to the executive.
Pursuing the same course of reasoning a little furtier, we-shall also be led to the conclusion, that neither
could there be a Court constituted by a law of the United States for the trial of this offender. I hold it unquestionable, that whenever, in the statutes of any government, a general reference is made to law, either
implicitly or expressly, that it can only relate to the
laws of the government making this reference. Now
the only act which it is pretended vests any Court
with jurisdiction of offences created by the 5th section of the act of 1795, as to persons not yet mustered into service, is the Ist section of the act of
1814. The 4th and 6th sections of the act of 1795,
taken together, furnish Courts Martial for the trial of
offences committed by militia employed by the United
States ; and the act of 1814, I admit,; 'was intended
to act upon the offences of those who were not yet
in actual service, but had been called into service.
Can it, on any legal principle, be so construed as to
answer the end proposed ? The words are, " That
Courts Martial for the trial of militia, drafted, detached and called forth for the service of the United
States, shall be appointed," &c. But how drafted,
detached, and called forth? Under the laws of the
United States, or of Russia ? For the laws of the
States, unless adopted by Congress, are no more the
laws of the United States than those of any foreign
power. There is nothing in this act, or any other

act, that designates the drafting, and detaching, or

OF THE UNITED STATES.

calling forth, there expressed as the grounds of ju182o.
risdiction, as a drafting, &c. under the laws of a Houston
State. Nor would it have had such a drafting, &c.
v.
in view, if it was intended to provide for punishing
oare,
offences against the provisions of the act of 179b;
for, in that act it is required to be a calling forth by
the President, not by State authority. And this
suggests-the only reasonable exposition that can be
given it, consistent with the principle, that it must
be a drafting, detaching, and calling forth under laws
of the United States. If we can find a sensible
and consistent exposition, we are bound to adopt it
as the only one intended.
I have no doubt, that under the powers given the
President by the act of 1795, and under the restriction 'contained in the 4th section of that act, it was
in the power of the President to have issued orders
to the Adjutant General of Pennsylvania, to bring
into the field this quota of militia, and to have prescribed the manner in which they should be drafted
and detached; and had this been done, every thing
'would have been sensible and consistent, and the
exigencies of both these laws would have been satisfied. It is obvious, that the act of 1814 recognizes the construction which makes the drafting,
and detaching, as necessary to precede the-calling
forth ; and if the power to call forth existed in the
President alone, it would seem that the other subordinate, but necessary ancillary powers to which
this act has relation, must have existed in him also,
and could be exercised by him, or under his authority only. Under this view of the .subject, I am of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

is20.
Mr.
IBtoure.l

opinion, that a Court Martial constituted under this
act of April 18th, 1814, could not legally have tried
this individual, because he was not drafted and detached under the meaning of that act, taken in connexion with the act of 1795. Neither, in my opinion, was the calling forth such as was in the contemnplation of that act. In addition to the reasons
already given for this opinion, exists this obvious consideration. The calling forth authorized by that act
is to be expressed by an order from the President. It
is disobedience to such an order alone that is made
punishable by that act. Now, though it be unquestionable that this order may be communicated through
any proper organ, yet it must be communicated to
the individual as an order from the President, or he
is not brought within the enactment of the law, nor
put on his guard against incurring the penalty. But,
from first to last, the whole case makes out an offence
against the orders of the Governor of Pennsylvania..
It does not appear, that the order communicated to
the individual was made to assume the form of an
order from the President; and how, in that case, he
could have been held guilty of having violated an
orderfrom the President,it is not easy to conceive.
For these reasons I am very clearly of opinion,
that neither the United States, nor the plaintiff in
error, can complain of the infraction of any constitutional right, if the State did constitute a Court for
trying offences against the laws of the United States,
or ingraft those laws into its own code, and make
offences against the United States punishable in its
Courts; that if the individual has any cause of corn-

OF THE UNITED STATR .

plaint, it is between him and his own State governiaso.
inent : And that even were it otherwise, the plaintiff
V.
in error does not make out such a case here; inasMoore.
had
have
not
could
much as the general government
it in contemplation to bring into operation the penal
provisions of the act of 1795, and if they had, that
they did not pursue the steps indispensable for that
purpose; therefore, that the Court Martial by which
the plaintiff in error was tried, was really acting
wholly under the authority of State laws, punishing
State offences.
But it is contended, that if the States do possess this power over the militia, they may abuse
it. This is a branch of the exploded doctrine,
that within the scope in which Congress may legislate, the States shall not legislate. That they cannot, when legislating within that ceded region of
power, run counter to the laws of Congress, is denied
by no one; but, as I before observed, to reason against
the exercise of this power from the possible abuse of
it, is not for a court of justice. When instances of
this opposition occur, it will be time enough to meet
them. The present was an instance of the most
honourable and zealous co-operation with the general government. The legislature of Pennsylvania,
influenced, no doubt, by views similar to those in
which I have presented the subject, saw the defects
in the means of coercing her citizens into the service; and, unwilling to bear the imputation of lukewarmness in the common cause, legislated on the
occasion just as far as the laws of the United States
were defective, or not brought into operation. And
to vindicate her disinterestedness, she even gratui-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
H

v.

Moilre.

tously surrenders to the United States the fines to
be inflicted. To have paused on legal subtleties with
the enemy at her door, or to have shrunk from duty
under shelter of pretexts which
she could remove,
would have been equally inconsistent with her character for wisdom and for candour.
I will make one further observation in order to
I have
prevent myself from being misunderstood.
observed, that the Governors of States, as military
commanders, must be considered as subordinate to
the President: I do not mean to intimate, nor have
I the least idea, that the act of 1705 gives authority
to the President to issue an order to a Governor in
that capacity. I hold the opinion to be absurd ; for
he comes not within the idea of a militia officer in
the language of that act. If he is so, what is his
grade ? He will not be included under any title of
rank, known to the laws of the United States, from
the highest to the lowest. And how is he to be tried ?
What is his pay ?-what his punishment? An act
which authorizes an order for militia, obviously authorizes a requisition. And if the purposes of the
general government could as well be subserved by
depending on the State authority for calling out
the militia, there was no reason against resorting to
that authority for tho purpose. But the power of
ordering out the militia is an alternative given to the
President when the other is too circuitous or likely
to fail. In that case, the President may address himself to the Executive; and having obtained through
him the necessary information relative to the distribution and organization of the militia, may proceed,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

under his own immediate orders, to draft and detach
182o.
the numbers wanted. And thus every thing in the Houston
V.
act becomes sensible, consistent, and adequate to the Moore.
purposes in view, with the sole defect intended to
have been remedied by the 1st section of the act of
1814.
In this case, it will be observed, that there is no
point whatever decided, except that the fine was
constitutionally imposed upon the plaintiff in error.
The course of reasoning by which the judges have
reached this conclusion are various, coinciding in but
one thing, viz., that there i. no error in the judgment
of the State Court of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Justice STORY. The only question which is
cognizable by this Court upon this voluminous record, arises from a very short paragraph in the close
of the bill of exceptions. It there appears that the
plaintiff prayed the State Court of Common Pleas
to instruct the jury, that the first, second, and third
paragraphs of the 21st section of the statute of
Pennsylvania of the 28th of March, 1814, "so
far as they related to the militia called into the s6rvice of the United States, under the laws of Congress, and who failed to obey the orders of the President of the United States, are contrary to the Constitution of the United States and the laws of Congres$ made in pursuance thereof, and are, therefore,
null and void." The Court instructed the jury that
these paragraphs were not contrary to the constitution or laws of the United States, and were, therefore, not null and void. This opinion has been

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
16o0.
Houston

V.

affirmed by the highest State tribunal of Pennsylvania, and judgment has been there pronounced in
pursuanceof itin favour of the defendant. The cause
stands before us upon a writ of error from this last
judgment; and the naked question for us to decide
is, whether the paragraphs alluded to are repugnant
to the constitution or laws of the United States; if
so, the judgment must be reversed; if otherwise, it
ought to be affirmed.
Questions of this nature are always of great importance and delicacy. They involve interests of so
much magnitude, and of such deep and permanent
public concern, that they cannot but be approached
with uncommon anxiety. The sovereignty of a
State in the exercise of its legislation is not to be impaired, unless it be clear that it has transcended its
legitimate authority; nor ought any power to be
sought, much less to be adjudged, in favour of the
United States, unless it be clearly within the reach
of its constitutional charter. Sitting here, we arb
not at liberty to add one jot of power to the national
government beyond what the people have granted by
the constitution ; and, on the other hand, we are
bound to support that constitution as it stands, and
to give a fair and rational scope to all the powers
which it clearly contains.
The constitution containing a grant of powers in
many instances similar to those already existing in the
State governments, and some of these being of vital
importance also to State authority. and State legislation, it is not to be admitted that a mere grant of
sach powers in affirmative terms to Congress) does:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

_per se, transfer an exclusive sovereignty on such subjects to the latter. On the contrary, a reasonable interpretation of that instrument necessarily leads to
are never
the conclusion, that the powers so granted
exclusive of similar powers existing in the States,
unless where the constitution has expressly in terms
given an exclusive power to Congress, or the exercise of a like power is prohibited to the States, or
there is a direct repugnancy or incompatibility in the
exercise of it by the States. The example of the
first class is to be found in the exclusive legislation
delegated to Congress over places purchased by the
consent of the legislature of the State in which the
same shall be, for forts, arsenals, dock-yards, &c.
of the second class, the prohibition of a State to coin
money or emit bills of credit; of the third class, as
this Court have already held, the power to establish
an uniform rule of naturalization, and the delegation
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.' In all other
cases not falling within the classes already mentioned, it seems unquestionable that the States retain
concurrent authority with Congress, not only upon
the letter and spirit of the eleventh amendment of
the constitution, but upon the soundest principles of
general reasoning. There is this reserve, however,
that in cases of concurrent authority, where the laws
of the States and of the Union are in direct and manifest collision on the same subject, those of the
Union being "1the supreme law of the land," are of
a Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259. 269.

b Martin v. Hunter, I Wheat. 304. 337.
ralist, No. 32.
VOt,. V.

7

And see The Fede-

1820.
Houston

v.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

paramount authority, and the State laws, so far, and
so far only, as such incompatibility exists, must neceso
H~ouston
,V. sarily yield.
AToore.
Such are the general principles by which myjudgment is guided in every investigation on constitutional points. I do not know that they have ever
been seriously doubted. They commend themselves
by their intrinsic equity, and have been amply justified by the opinions of the great men under whose
guidance the constitution was framed, as well as by
the practice of the government of the Union. To
desert them would be to deliver ourselves over to
endless doubts and difficulties; and probably to hazard the existence of the constitution itself. With
these principles inview, let the question now before
the Court be examined.
The constitution declares, that Congress shall
have power ,1to provide for calling forth the militia
to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions;" and "to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia, and for
governing such part of them as may be employed in
the service of the United States, reserving to the
States respectively the appointment of the officers,
and the authority of training the militia according
to the discipline prescribed by Congress."
It is almost too plain for argument, that the power
here given to Congress over the militia, is of a limited nature, and confined to the objects specified in
these clauses; and that in all other respects, and for
all other purposes, the militia are subject to the control and government of the State authorities. Nor
can the reservation to the States of the appointment
1820.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of 'the officers and authority of the training the
militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress, be justly considered as weakening this conexception
clusion. That reservation constitutes an
merely from the power given to Congress " to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the
militia ;" and is a limitation upon the authority,
which would otherwise have devolved upon it as to'
the appointment of officers. But the exception from
a given power cannot, upon any fair reasoning, be
considered as an enumeration of all the powers
which belong to the States over the militia. What
those powers are must depend upon their own
constitutions; and what is not taken away by the
Constitution of the United States, must be considered
as retained by the States or the people. The exception then ascertains only that Congress have not,
and that the States have, the power to appoint the
officers of the militia, and to train them according
to the discipline -prescribed by Congress. Nor does
to
it seem necessary to contend, that the power "C
provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the
militia," is exclusively vested in Congress. It is
merely an affirmative power, and if not in its own nature incompatible with the existence'of a like power
in the States, it may well leave a concurrent power
in the latter. But when once Congress has carried
this power into effect, its laws for the organization,
arming, and discipline of the militia, are the supreme
law of the lands and all interfering State regulations
must necessarily be suspended in their operation. It
would certainly seem reasonable, that in -theabsence

1820.
Houston

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
Houson

I-

of all interfering provisions by Congress on the subject, the States should have authority to organize,
arm, and discipline their own militia. The general
authority retained by them over the militia would
seem to draw after it these, as necessary incidents.
If Congress should not have exercised its own power,
how, upon any other construction, than that of a concurrent power, could the States sufficiently provide
for their own safety against domestic insurrections,
or the sudden invasion of a foreign enemy ? They
are expressly prohibited from keeping troops or ships
of war in time of peace; and this, undoubtedly, upon
the supposition, that in such cases the militia would
be their natural and sufficient defence. Yet what
would the militia be without organization, arms, and
discipline ? It is certainly not compulsory upon
Congress to exercise its own authority upon this
subject. The time, the mode, and the extent, must
rest upon its means and sound discretion. If, therefore, the present case turned upon the question, whether a State might organize, arm, and discipline its
own militia in the absence of, or subordinate to, the regulations of Congress, 1 am certainly not prepared to
deny the legitimacy of such an exercise of authority. It does not seem repugnant in its nature to
the grant of a like paramount authority to Congress;
and if not, then it is retained by the States. The
fifth amendment to the constitution, declaring that
C a well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep
and bear arms shall not be infringed," may not, perhaps, be thought to have any important bearing

OF THE UNITED STATES.

on this point. If it have, it confirms and illustrates,
1820.
rather than impugns the reasoning already suggested. ""
Houston
'.
But Congress have, also, the power to provide
"for governing such part of the militia as may be Moore.
employed in the service of the United States." It
has not been attempted in argument, to establish that
this power is not exclusively in Congress; or that
the States have a concurrent power of governing
their own militia when in the service of the Union.
On the contrary, the reverse has been conceded both
here and before the other tribunals in which this
cause has been so ably ani learnedly discussed. And
there certainly are the strongest reasons for this construction. When the militia is called into the actual
service Qf the United States, by which I understand
actual employment in service, the constitution declares, that the President shall be the commander in
chief. The militia of several States may, at the
same time, be called out for the public defence; and
to suppose each State could have an authority to govern its own militia in such cases, even subordinate
to the regulations of Congress, seems utterly inconsistent with that unity of command and action, on
whch the success of all military operations must
essentially depend. There never could be a stronger
case put from the argument of public inconvenience,
against the adoption of such a doctrine. It is scarcely
possible, that any interference, however small, of a
State under such circumstances in the government of
the militia, Ni'ould not materially embarrass, and directly, or indirectly, impugn the authority of the
Union. In most cas.es there would be an utter re-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18o.
o
Houston

Ir.

-oore.

pugnancy.

It would seem, therefore, that a rational

interpretation must construe this power as exclusive
in its own nature, and belonging solely to Congress.
The remaining clause gives Congress power "to
provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws
of the .Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions." Does this clause vest in Congress an exclusive power, or leave to the States a concurrent
power to enact laws for the same purposes? This
is an important question, bearing directly on the
case before us, and deserves serious deliberation.
The plaintiff contends, that the power is exclusive in
Congress ; the defendant, that it is not.
In considering this question, it is always to be
kept'in view, that the case is not of a new power
granted to Congress where no similar power already
existed in the States. On the contrary, the States
in virtue of their sovereignty, possessed general authority over their own militia; and the constitution
carved out of that a specific power in certain enumerated cases. But the grant of such a power is not
necessarily exclusive, unless the retaining of a concurrent power by the States be clearly repugnant to
the grant. It does not strike me that there is any
repugnancy in such concurrent power in the States.
Why may not a State call forth its own militia in aid
of the United States, to execute the laws of the
Union, or suppress insurrections, or repel invasions ?
It would certainly seem fit that a State might so do,
where the insurrection or invasion is within its own
territory, and directed against its own existence or
authority; and yet these are cases to which the pow-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

er of Congress pointedly applies. And the execution of the laws of the Union within its territory
may not be less vital to its rights and authority, than
the suppression of a rebellion, or the repulse of an
enemy. I do not say that a State may call forth, or
claim under its own command, that portion of its
militia which the United States have already called
forth,.and hold employed in actual service. There
would be a repugnancy in the exercise of such aa
authority under such circumstances. But why may
it not call forth, and employ the rest of its militia in
aid of the United States, for the constitutional purposes ? It could not clash with the exercise of the
authority confided to Congress; and yet that it must
necessarily clash with it in all cases, is the sole ground
upon which the authority of Congress' can be deemed exclusive. I am not prepared to assert, that a
concurrent power is not retained by the States to
provide for the calling forth its own militia as auxiliary to the power of Congress in the enumerated cases.
The argument of the plaintiff is, that when a power
is granted to Congress to legislate in specific cases,
for purposes grooving out of the Union, the natural
conclusion is, that the power is designed to be exclusivq.: That the power is to be exercised for the
good of the whole, by the will of the whole, and
consistent with the interests of the whole ; and that
these objects can no where be so clearly seen, or so
thoroughly weighed as in Congress, where the whole
nation is represented. But the argument proves too
much; and pursued to its full extent, it would establish, that all the powers granted to Congress are

i820.

" "
Houstom
V.
Moore.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
Itouston

7 .

exclusive, unless where concurrent authority is expressly reserved to the States. But assuming the
concurrent power oi this subject,
possess adifficulty
States
still thetoprincipal
remains to be considered.
It is conceded on all sides, and is, indeed, beyond all
reasonable doubt, that all State laws on this subject
are subordinate to those constitutionally enacted by
Congress, and that if there be any conflict or repugnancy between them, the State laws to that extent
are inoperative and void. And this brings us to a
consideration of the actual legislation of Congress,
and of Pennsylvania, as to the point in controversy.
In the execution of the power to provide for the
calling forth of the militia, it cannot well be denied,
that Congress may pass laws to make its call effectual, to punish disobedience to its call, to erect tribunals for the trial of offenders, and to direct the modes
of proceeding to enforce the penalties attached to
such disobedience. In its very essence too, the offence created by such laws must be an offence exclusively against the United States, since it grows
solely out of the breach of duties due to the United
States, in virtue of its positive legislation. To deny
the authority of Congress to legislate to this extent,
would be to deny that it had authority to make all
laws necessary and proper to carry a givei power
into execution ; to require the end, and yet deny the
only means adequate to attain that end. Such a
construction of the constitution is wholly inadmissible..
The authority of Congress being then unquestionable, let us see to what extent, and in what

OF THE UNITED STATES.

manner it has been exercised. By the act of the
28th of February, 1795, ch. 101., Congress have

12o.

Houston

V.
provided for the calling forth of the militia in the
Moore.
secfirst
The
constitution.
the
in
cases enumerated
tion provides, " that whenever the United States
shall be invaded, or be in imminent danger of invasion
from any foreign nation, or Indian tribe, it shall be
lawful for the President of the United States to call
forth such number of the militiaof the State or States,
most convenient to the place of danger, or scene of
action, as he may judge.necessary to repel such invasion, and to issue his orders for that purpose, to
such officer or officers of the militia as he shall think
proper." It then proceeds to make a provision, substantially the same, in cases of domestic insurrections;
and in like manner, the second section proceeds to
provide for cases where the execution of the laws is
opposed or obstructed by combinations too powerful
to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial
proceedings. The fourth section provides, that "the
militia employed in the service of the United States
shall be subject to the same rules and articles of war
as the troops of the United States." The fifth section (which is very material to our present purpose)
provides, ",that every officer, non-commissioned officer, or private-of the militia, who shallfail to obey any
of the orders of the Presidentof the United States, in
the cases before reeited, shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one year's pay, and not less than one month's
pay, to be determined and adjudged :by a Court Martial; and such officer shall, moreover, be liable to be
cashiered by a sentence of a Court Martial, and be
Vor..' .

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
io.
Houston

V.

Moore.

incapacitated from holding a commission in the militia for a term not exceeding twelve months, at the
discretion of the said Court; and such non-commissioned officers and privates shall be liable to be imprisoned by a like sentence, on failure of payment of
the fines adjudged against them, for one calendar
month for every five dollars of such fine." The
sixth section declares, "1that Courts Martial for the
trial of militia, shall be composed of militia officers
only." The seventh and eighth sections provide for
the collection of the fines by the marshal and deputies, and for the payment of them when collected
into the treasury of the United States.
The 2d section of the militia act of Pennsylvania,
passed the 28th of March, 1814, provides, " that if
any commissioned officer of the militia shall have
neglected, or refused to serve, when called into actual service in pursuance of any order or requisition
of the President of the United States, fie shall be liable to the penalties defined in the act of Congress
of the United States, passed on the 28th of February, 1795," and then proceeds to enumerate them ; and
then declares, "that each and every non- commissioned officer and private, who shall have neglected or refused to serve when called into actual service in pursuance of an order or requisition of the President of
the United States, shall be liable to the penalties defined in the same act," and then proceeds to enumerate them. And to each clause is added, "1or
shall be liable to any penalty which may have been
prescribed since the date of the passage of the said
act, or which may hereafter be prescribed by any law

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the United States." It then further provides, that
c within one month after the expiration of the time for
which any detachment of militia shall have been calby, or in
led into the service of the United States,
pursuance of orders from the President of the United States, the proper brigade inspector shall summon
a general, or a regimental Court Martial, as the case
may be, for the trial of such person or persons belonging to the detachment called out, who shall have
refused or neglected to march therewith, or to furnish a sufficient substitute, or who, after having
marched therewith, shall have returned without
leave from his commanding officer, of which delinquents, the proper brigade inspector shall furnish to
the said Court Martial an accurate list. And as
soon as the said Court Martial shall have decided in
each of the cases which shall be submitted to their
consideration, the president thereof shall furnish to
the marshal of the United States, or to his deputy,
and also to the comptroller of the treasury of the
United States, a list of the delinquents fined, in order that the further proceedings directed to be had
thereon by the laws of the United States may be
completed."
It is apparent, from this summary, that each of
the acts in question has in view the same objects, the
punishment of any persons belonging to the militia
of the State, who shall be called forth into the service of the United States by the President, and refuse to perform their duty. Both inflict the same
penalties for the same acts of disobedience. In the
act of 1795, it is the failure " to obey the orders of the

1820.
Houston

VO.

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT

18 0.

President int any of the casesbefore recited ;" and those

Rouston

orders are such as he is authorized to give by the first
and second sections of the act, viz. to " call forth"
the militia to execute the laws, to suppress insurrec-

v.

Moore.

tions, and repel invasions. In the act of Pennsylvania, it is the neglect or refusal " to serve when called into actual service, in pursuance of any orders of
the Presidenit," which orders can only be under the
act of 1795. And to demonstrate this construction
more fully, the delinquent is made liable to the penalties defined in the same act; and this again is followed by a clause varyingthe penalties, so as to conform to those which from time to time may be inflicted by the laws of the United States for the same
offence. So that there can be no reasonable doubt
that the legislature of Pennsylvania meant to punish
by its own Courts Martial, an offence against the
United States created by their laws, by a substantial
re-enactment of those laws in its own militia code.
No doubt has been here breathed of the constitutionality of the provisions of the act of 1795, and
they are believed to be, in all respects, within the
legitimate authority of Congress. In the construction, however, of this act, the parties are at variance.
The plaintiff contends, that from the time of the
calling forth of the militia by the President, it is to
be considered as ipsofacto "employed in the service
of the United States," within the meaning of the
constitution, and the act of 1795; and, therefore, to
be exclusively governed by Congress. On the other
hand, the defendant contends, that there is no distinction between the "calling forth," and the "l employ-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ment in service" of the militia, in the act of 1795,
both meaning actual mustering in service, or an effectual calling into service; that the. States retain
complete authority over the militia, notwithstanding
the call of the President, until it is obeyed by going
into service; that.the exclusive authority of the United States does not commence until the drafted troops
are mustered, and in the actual pay and service of
the Union: and further, that the act of 1795 was
never intended, by its language, to apply its penalties,
except to militia in the latter predicament, leaving
disobedience to the President's call to be punished
by the States as an offence against State authority.
Upon the most mature reflection, it is my opinion, that there is a sound distinction between the
" calling forth" of the militia, and their being in the
"actual service" or " employment" of the United
States, contemplated both in the constitution and'acts
of Congress. The constitution, in the clause already
adverted to, enables Congress to provide for the government of such part of the militia " as may be
employed in the service of the United States," and
makes the President commander in chief of the militia, " when called into the actual service of the
United States." If the former clause included the
authorityin Congress to call forth the militia, as being
in virtue of the call of the President in actual service, there would certainly be no necessity for a distinct clause, authorizing it to provide for the calling
forth of the militia; and the President would be
commander in chief, not merely of the militia in actual service, but of the militia ordered into service.

m o.

o
V.

Moor&

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18o20.

Houston
V.

The acts of Congress, also, aid the construction already asserted. The 4th section of the act of 1795,
makes the militia "employed in the service of tha
United States," subject to the rules and articles of
war; and these articles include capital punishments
by Courts Martial. Yet one of the amendments
(art. 5.) to the constitution, prohibits such punishments, "1unless on a presentment or indictment of a
grand jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces," or in " the militia when in actualservice,
in time of war, or public danger." To prevent, therefore, a manifest breach of the constitution, we cannot but suppose that Congress meant, (what, indeed,
its language clearly imports,) in the 4th section, to
provide only for cases of actual employment. The
act of the 2d of January, 1795, ch. 74. provides for
the pay of the militia ," when called into actual service," commencing it on the day of their appearance
at the place of rendezvous, and allowing a certain
pay for every fifteen miles travel from their homes to
that place. The 97th article of the rules and articles of war (act of 10th of April, 1806, ch. 20.)
dfeclares, that the officers and soldiers of any troops,
whether militia or others, being mustered, and in the
pay of the United States, shall, at all times, and in
all places, " when joined, or acting in conjunction
with the regular forces" of the United States, bc
governed by these articles, and shall be subject to be
tried by Courts Martial, in like manner with the officers and soldiers in the regular forces, save only
that such Courts Martial shall be composed entirely
of militia officers. And the act of the 18th of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

April, 1814, (ch. 141.) supplementary to that oF
1795, provides for like Courts Martial for the trial
of militia, drafted, detached, and called forth for the
acting in
service of the United States, "1whether

conjunction with the regular forces or otherwise."
All these provisions for the government, payment, and
trial of the militia, manifestly contemplate that the
militia are in actual employment and service, and
not merely that they have been il called forth," or
ordered fbrth, and had itiled to obey the orders of the
President. It would seem almost absurd to say that
these men who have performed no actual service, are
yet to receive pay; that they are " employed" when
they refuse to be employed in the public service;
that they are ", acting" in conjunction with the regular forces or otherwise, when they are not embodied to act at all; or that they are subject to the rules
and articles of war as troops organized and employed
in the public service, when they have utterly disclaimed all military organization and obedience. In
my judgmpnt, there are the strongest reasons to believe, that by employment "in . the service," or, as it
is sometimes expressed, " in the actual service" of
the United States, something more must be meant
than a mere calling forth of the militia. That it
includes some acts of organization, mustering, or
marching done or recognised, in obedience to the
call in the public service. The act of 1795 is not
in its terms compulsive upon any militia to serve;.
but contemplates an option in the person drafted, to
serve or not to-serve; and if he pay the penalty in-

182o.

"

"

V.
Moore.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
Houston
V.
M'oore.

flicted by the law, he does not seem bound to perform any military duties.
Besides, the terms " call forth" and " employed
in service," cannot, in any appropriate sense, be said
to be synonimous. To suppose them used to signify
the same thing in the constitution, and acts of Congress, would be to defeat the obvious purposes of
both. Tile constitution, in providing for the calling
forth of the militia, necessarily supposes some act to
be done before the actual employment of the militia;
a requisition to perform service, a call to engage in a
public duty. From the very nature of things, the
call must precede the service; and to confound them
is to break down the established meaning of language, and to render nugatory a power without which
the militia can never be compelled to serve in defence
of the Union. For of what constitutional validity
can the act of 1795 be, if the sense be not what I
have stated? If Congress cannot provide for a preliminary call, authorizing and requiring the service,
how can it punish disobedience to that call ? The
argument that endeavours to establish such a proposition, is utterly without any solid foundation. We
do not sit here to fritter away the constitution upon
metaphysical subtleties.
Nor is it true that the act of 1795 confines its
penalties to such of the militia as are in actual service, leaving those who refuse to comply with the
orders of the President to the punishment that the
State may choose to inflict for disobedience. On tile
contrary, if there be any certainty in language, the
.5th section applies exclusively to those of the militia

OF THE UNITED STATES.

who are " called forth" by the President, and fail to
obey his orders, or, in other words, who refuse to
go into the actual service of the United States. It inflicts no penaltyin any other case; and it supposes, and
justly, that all the cases of disobedience of the militia,
while in actual service, were sufficiently provided
for by the 4th section of the act, they being thereby
subjected to the rules and articles of war. It inflicts
the penalty too, as we have already seen, in the identical cases, and none other, to which the paragraphs
of the militia act of Pennsylvania now in question
pointedly address themselves; and in the identical
case for which the present plaintiff was tried, convicted, and punished, by the State Court Martial.
So that if the defendant's construction of the act of
1795 could prevail, it would not help his case. All
the difficulties as to the repugnancy between the act
of Congress and of Pennsylvania, would still remain,
with the additional difficulty, that the Court would
be driven to say, that the mere act of calling forth
put the militia, ipsofacto, into actual service, and so
placed them exclusively under the government of
Congress.
In the remarks which have already been made, the
answer to another proposition stated by the defendant is necessarily included. The offence to which
the penalties are annexed in the 4th section of the
act of 1795, is not an offence against State authority,
but against the United States, created by a law of
Congress, in virtue of a constitutional authority, and
punishable by a tribunal which it has selected, and
which it can change at its pleasure.
VOL. V.

9

65

10.o.
"-.
Houston

v.

Moore.

CASES IN THE bUPREME COURT

66
1820.

tlouston
V.MIoore.

That tribunal is a Court Martial ; and the defendant contends, that as no explanatory terms are added,

a State Court Martial is necessarily intended, because the laws of the Union have
not effectually
created any Court Martial, which, sitting under the
athority of the United States, can in all cases try
the offence. It will at once be seen that the act of
1795 has not expressly delegated cognizance of the
offence to a State Court Martial, and the question
naturally arises, in what manner then can it be claimed ? When a military offence is created by an act of
Congress to be punished by a Court Martial, how is
such an act to be interpreted? If a similar clause
were in a State law, we should be at no loss to give
an immediato and definite construction to it, viz., that
it pointed to a State Court Martial-And why ? Because the offence being created by State legislation,
to be executed for State purposes, must be supposed
to contemplate in its execution such tribunals as the
State may erect, and control, and confer jurisdiction
upon. A State legislature cannot be presumed to
legislate as to foreign tribunals; but must be supposed to speak in reference to those which may be
reached by its own sovereignty. Precisely the same
reasons must apply to the construction of a law of
the United States. The object of the law being to
provide for the exercise of a power vested in Congress by the constitution, whatever is directed to be
done must be supposed to be done, unless the contratrary be expressed, under the authority of the Union.
XVhen, then, a Court Martial is spoken of in general
terms in the act of 1795. the reasonable interpre

OF THE UNITED STATES.

182o.
tation is, that it is a Court Martial to be organized
under the authority of the Uuited States-a Court Houston
V.
Martial whom Congress may convene and regulate.
There is no pretence to say, that Congress can compel a State Court Martial to convene and sit in judgment on such offence. Such an authority is no
where confided to it by the constitution. Its power
is limited to the few cases already specified, and
these most assuredly do not embrace it ; for it is not
an implied power necessary or proper to carry into
effect the given powers. The nation may organize
its own tribunals for this purpose; and it has no necessity to resort to other tribunals to enforce its rights.
If it do not choose to organize such tribunals, it is its
own fault ; but it is not, therefore, imperative upon a
State tribunal to volunteer in its service. The 6th
section of the same act comes in aid of this most reasonable construction. It declares that Courts Mar-.
tial for the trial of militia shall be composed of
militia officers only, which plainly shows that it supposed that regular troops and officers were in the
same service; and yet, it is as plain that this provision would be superfluous, if State Courts Martial were solely intended, since the States do not
keep, and ordinarily have no authority to keep, regular troops, but are bound to confine themselves to
militia. It might with as much propriety be contended, that the Courts Martial for the trial of militia under the 97th article of the rules and articles
-of war, are to be State Courts Martial. The language of that article, so far as respects this point, is

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1320.
Houston
M.

almost the same with the clause now under consideration.

As to the argument itself, upon which the defend-

ant erects his construction of this part of the
act,
befollow,
its solidity is not admitted. It does not
cause Congress have neglected to provide adequate
means to enforce their laws, that a resulting trust is
reposed in the State tribunals to enforce them. If an
offence be created of which no Court of the United
States has a vested cognizance, the State Court may
not, therefore, assume jurisdiction, and punish it. It
cannot be pretended that the States have retained
any power to enforce fines and penalties created by
the laws of the United States in virtue of their general sovereignty, for that sovereignty did not originally attach on such subjects. They sprung from the
Union, and had no previous existence. It would be
a strange anomaly in our national jurisprudence to
hold the doctrine, that because a new power created
by the constitution of the United States was not exercised to its full extent, therefore the States might
exercise it by a sort of process in aid. For instance,
because Congress decline " to borrow money on the
credit of the United States," or " to constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court," or "to make rules
for the government and regulation of the land and
naval forces," or exercise either of them defectively,
that a State might step in, and by its legislation supply
those defects, or assume a general jurisdiction on
these subjects. If, therefore, it be conceded, that
Congress have not as yet legislated to the extent of
organizing Courts Martial for the trial of offences
created by the act of 1795, it is not conceded that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

therefore State Courts Martial may, in virtue of
State laws, exercise the authority, and punish offenders. Congress may hereafter supply such defects,
and cure all inconveniences.

It is a general principle too in the policy, if not the
customary law of nations, that no nation is bound
to enforce the penal laws of another within its own
dominions. The authority naturally belongs, and. is
confided, to the tribunals of the nation creating the
offences. In a government formed like ours, where
there is a division of sovereignty, and, of course,
where there is a danger of collision from the near
approach of powers to a conflict with each other, it
would seem a peculiarly safe and salutary rule, that
each government should be left to enforce its own
penal laws in its own tribunils. It has been expressly held by this Court, that no part of the criminal
jurisdiction of the United States can consistently
with the contsitution be delegated by Congress to
State tribunals ;a and there is not the slightest inclination to retract that opinion. The judicial power
of the Union clearly extends to all such cases. No
concurrent power is retained by the States, because
the subject matter derives its existence from the cnstitution ; and the authority of Congress to delegate
it cannot be implied, for it is not necessary or proper
in any constitutional sense. But even if Congress
could delegate it, it would still remain to be shown
that it had so done. We have seen that this cannot
a Martin v Hunter, I Wheat. Rep. 304. 337. S. P. United
St.ates v. Lathrop, 17 Johns. Rep. 4.

i820.
Houston

V.

Moore.

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT
Mo.
Ilston

V.
MIoore.

be correctly deduced from the act of 1795; and we
are, therefore, driven to decide, whether a State can,
without such delegation, constitutionally assume and
exercise it.
It is not, however, admitted, that the laws of the
United States have not enabled Courts Martial to be
held under their own authority for the trial of these
offences, atleast when there are militia officers acting
in service in conjunction with regular troops. The
97th article of war gives an authority for the trial of
militia in many cases; and the act of the 18th of
April, 1814, ch. 141. (which has now expired,) provided, as we have already seen, for cases where the
militia was acting alone. To what extent these
laws applied is not now necessary to be determined.
The subject is introduced solely to prevent any conclusion that they are deemed to be wholly inapplicable. Upon the whole, I am of opinion, that the
Courts Martial intended by the act of 1795, are not
State Courts Martial, but those of the United States ;
and this is the same construction which has been
already put upon the same act by the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania.
What, then, is the state of the case before the Court ?
Congress, by a law, declare that the officers and privates of the militia who shall, when called forth by
the President, fail to obey his orders, shall be liable
to certain penalties, to be adjudged by a Court Martial convened under its own authority. The legislature of Pennsylvania inflict the same penalties for
a Exparte Bolson, 5 Hall's Amer. Law Journal, 476.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tlie same disobedience, and direct these penalties
to be adjudged by a State Court Martial called exelusively under its own authority. The offence is
created by a law of the United States, and is solely
against their authority, and made punishable in a specific manner; the legislature of Pennsylvania, without the assent of the United States, insist upon being an auxiliary, nay, as the defendant contends, a
principal, if not a paramount, sovereign, in its execution. This is the real state of the case ; and it
is said, without the slightest disrespect for the legislature of Pennsylvania, who in passing this act were,
without question, governed by the highest motives of
patriotism, public honour, and fidelity to the Union,
If it has transceiided its legitimate authority, it has
committed an unintentional error, which it will be
the first to repair, and the last to vindicate. Our duty
compels us, however, to compare the legislation, and
not the intention, with the standard of the constitution.
It has not been denied, that Congress may constitutionally delegate to its own Courts exclusive
jurisdiction over cases arising under its own laws.
It is, too, a general principle in the construction of
statutes, that where a penalty is prescribed to be
recovered in a special manner, in a special Court, it
excludes a recovery in any other mode or Court.
The language is deemed expressive of the sense of
the legislature, that the jurisdiction shall be exclusive,
In such a case, it is a violation of the statute for any
other tribunal to assume jurisdiction. If, then, we
strip the case before the Court of all unnecessary

1820.

Houston

-.
Moorg.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

Houston

V.

Mloore.

appendages, it presents this point, that Congress had
declared that its own Courts Martial shall have exelusive jurisdiction of the offence; and the State of
Pennsylvania claims a right to interfere with that exclusive jurisdiction, and to decide in its own Courts
upon the merits of every case of alleged delinquency.
Can a more direct collision with the authority of' the
United States be imagined ? It is an exercise of concurrent authority where the laws of Congress have
constitutionally denied it. If an act of Congress be
the supreme law of the land, it cannot be made more
binding by an affirmative re-enactment of the same
act by a State legislature. The latter must be merely inoperative and void ; for it seeks to give sanction
to that which already possesses the highest sanction.

What are the consequences, if the State legislation in the present case be constitutional? In the
first place, if the trial in the State Court Martial be
on the merits, and end in a condemnation or acquittal,
one of two things must follow, either that the United
States' Courts Martial are thereby devested of their
authority to try the same case, in violation of the jurisdiction confided to them by Congress; or that the
delinquents are liable to be twice tried and punished
for the same offence, against the manifest intent of
the act of Congress, the principles of the common
law, and the genius of our free government. In
the next place, it is not perceived how the right of
the President to pardon the offence can be effectually
exerted; for if the State legislature can, as the defendant contends, by its own enactment, make it a
State offence, the pardoning power of the State

OF THE UNITED STATES.
152o.
ckii alone purge away such an offence. The Prosident has no authority to interfere in such a case. %ou,,
V.
In the next place, if the State can re-enact the same
differsubstantially
penalties
enact
may
penalties, it
ent for the same offence, to be adjudged in its own
Courts. If it possess a concurrent power of legislation, so as to make it a distinct State offence, what
punishments it shall impose must depend upon its
own discretion. In the exercisc of that discretion, it
is not liable to the control of the United States. It
may enact more severe or more mild punishments
than those declared by Congress. And thus an
offence originally created by the laws of the United
States, and growing out of their authority, may be
visited with penalties utterly incompatible with the
intent of the national legislature. It may be said
that State legislation cannot be thus exercised, because its concurrent power must be in subordination
to that of. the Uni$ed States. If this be true, (and
it is believed to be so,) then it must be upon the
ground that the offence cannot be made a distinct
State offence, but is exclusively created by the laws
of the United States, and is to be tried and punished as Congress has directed, and not in any other
manner or to any other extent. Yet the argument
of the defendant's counsel might be here urged, that
the State law was merely auxiliary to that of the
United States; and that it sought only to enforce a
public duty more effectually by other penalties, in
aid of those prescribed by Congress. The repugnancy of such a State law to the national authority
would, nevertheless, be manifest, since it would seek

Vor. V.

1O

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

to punish an offence created by Congress, differentHouston ly from the declared will of Congress. And the
repugnancy is not in my judgment less manifest,
V.
where the State law undertakes to punish an offence
by a State Court Martial, which the law of the
United States confines to the jurisdiction of a national
Court Martial.
The present case has been illustrated in the arguinent of the defendant's counsel, by a reference to
cases in which State Courts under State laws exercise a concurrent jurisdiction over offences created
and punished by the laws of the United States.
The only case of this description which has been
cited at the bar, is the forgery of notes of the Bank
of the Uhited States, which by an act of Congress
was punished by fine and imprisonment, and which
under State laws has also been punished in some
State Courts, and particularly in Pennsylvania.a In
respect to this case, it is to be recollected, that there
is an express proviso in the act of Congress, that nothing in that act should be construed to deprive the
State Courts of their jurisdiction under the State
laws over the offences declared punishable by that
act. There is no such proviso in the act of 1795,
and, therefore, there is no complete analogy to support the illustration.
That there are cases in which an offence particularly aimed against the laws or authority of the
United States may, at the same time, be directed
against State authority also, and thus be within the
1.20.

a See White v. Commonwealth, 4 Binn. Rep. 418.
ston v. Van Ingen, 9 Johns. Rep. 507. 567.

Living-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

legitimate reach of State legislation, in the absence
of national legislation on the same subject, I pretend
not to affirm, or to deny. It will be sufficient, to
But that an
meet such a case when it shall arise.
offence against the constitutional authority of the
United States can, after the national legislature has
provided for its trial and punishment, be cognizable
in a State Court, in virtue of a State law creating a
like offence, and defining its punishment, without the
consent of Congress, I am very far from being ready
to admit. It seems to me, that such an exercise of
State authority is completely open to the great objections which are presented in the case before us.
Take the case of a capital offence, as for instance,
treason against the United States : can a State legislature vest its own Courts with jurisdiction over such
an offence, and punish it either capitally or otherwise ? Can the national Courts be Ousted of their
jurisdiction by a trial of the offender in a State
Court? Would an acquittal in a State Court be a
good bar upon an indictment for the offence in the
national Courts ? Can the offender, against the letter of the constitution of the United States, " be
-subject for the same offence, to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb ?" These are questions which, it
seems to me, are exceedingly difficult to answer in
the affirmative. The case, then, put by the defendant's counsel, clears away none of the embarrassments which surround their construction of the case
at the bar of the Court.
Upon the whole, with whatever reluctance, I feel
myself bound to declare, that the clauses of the mi-

182o.
J"'
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME GOURI
1820.

U. tae

.

litia act of Pennsylvania now in question, are repugnant to the constitutional laws of Congress on the
samne subject, and are utterly void ; and that, therefore, the judgment of the State Court ought to be
reversed. In this opinion I have the concurrence of
one of my brethren.
Judgment affirmed.

(COs sTTUTTo

The

.RAL
LAW.)

UNITED STATES v. WILTBERGER.

The Courts of the United States have no jurisdiction, under the act o1
April 30th, 1790, c. 36. of the crime of manslaughter, committed by
the master upon one of the seamen on board a merchant vessel of
the United States, lying in the river Tigris, in the empire of China,
35 miles above its mouth, off Wampoa, about 100 yards from the
sbore, in four and a half fathoms water, and below low water mark.
Though penal laws are to be construed strictly; yet the intention of
the legislature must govern in the construction of penal, as well as
other statutes, and they are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of the legislature.
In the act of April 30th. 1790, c. 36. the description of places contained in the 8th section, within which the offences therein enumerated
must be committed, in order to give the Courts of the Union jurisdiction over them, cannot be transferred to the 1 th section, so as to
give those Courts jurisdiction over a manslaughter committed in
the river of a foreign country, and not on the high sets.

THIS was an indictment for manslaughter, in the
Circuit Court of Pennsylvania. The jury found
the defendant guilty of the offence with which he

