CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

326
1820.
Mechanics'
Bank
V.

Bank of Columbia.

(-oamaox

LAW.)

MECHANICS' BANK OF ALEXANDRIA

Y,THE

BANK

OF COLUMBIA.
The 17th section of the act, incorporating the Mechanics' Bank of'
Alexandria, providing "that all bills, bonds, notes, and every other
contract or engagement on behalf of the corporation, shall be signed
by the President, and countersigned by the Cashier; and the funds
of the corporation shall in no case be liable for any contract or engagement, unless the same shall be signed and countersigned as
aforesaid," does not extend to contracts and undertakings implied
in law.
Where a check was drawn by a person who was the cashier of an incorporated Bank, and it appeared doubtful upon the face of the
instrument, whether it was an official or a private act, parol evidence
was admitted to show that it was an official act.
The act of agents do not derive their validity from professing on the
face of them to have been done in the exercise of their agency.
The liability of the principal depends upon the facts; 1st. That the act
was done in the exercise, and, 2dly. Within the limits of the power
delegated.
In ascertaining these facts, as conaected with the execution of any
written instrument, parel testimony is admissible.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought by the
defendants in error against the plaintiffs in error, on
-he following check:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

327

1820.
Aerbanirg' ZanR of etKanbria,
Mechanics'
June 25th) 1817.
Bank
Co.
Ban.f
CASHIER of the Bank of Columbia,
Pay to the order of P. H. Minor, Esq. Ten lumbia.
Thousand Dollars.
WM. PATON, Jr.
10,000

No. 18.

This check was offered in evidence by the plaintiff below, and-testimony to prove that the said Paton,
before, at the time, and subsequent to the drawing
of the said check, was cashier of the said Mechanics'
BaRk, and the said Minor the teller thereof; and in
order to prove that the said check was drawn by the
said William Paton in his capacity as cashier, and was
so understood by him, and so understood by the said
Bank of Columbia, their officers and servants; evidence was further offered to prove, that from the
5th of May, 1817, to the time of drawing the said
check, there was kept in the said Mechanics' Bank,
by the proper officer thereof, a book of printed checks
in blank, for the purpose of being used by the
cashier, in drawing his official checks; and that the
check in question had been cut out of the said book:
That the said Cashier, in his official character, had
frequently used the blank checks out of the said
book, in drawing upon other banks in the district,
and there was no other difference between the checks
so drawn, and the check in question, other than the
letters 1 C a s . or 1 Ca.11 being superadded to the
name of the said William Paton, Jun. in the checks

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

iq2o.

so drawn upon the said other banks: That although

Mechanics'

the said check book was intended for the use of the

Bank
V.

Bank of Co.
lumbia.

bank, the checks in the same were sometimes used

for other purposes: That the business of the said

banks was sometimes managed through the medium
of letters; and in such official correspondence, it was
usual to subscribe the names of the cashiers, with,
the addition of some letters denoting their capacity
of Cashier; but such form was sometimes omitted;
and was in no case deemed indispensable, when,
from other circumstances, such correspondence appeared to be official. The plaintiffs further offered
in evidence two letters of the said William Paton,
directed to William Whann, Cashier of the Bank of
Columbia, each signed with the proper name of the
said William Paton, without the addition of Cashier,
or the letters " Cas." or "Ca." one of which letters
related to the private concerns of the said William
Whann, and the other to the concerns of the bank.
Evidence was further offered to prove that the
check given in evidence as aforesaid, was, (together
with a number of other checks, drawn by the said
William Paton upon other banks, with the addition
in his signature of the letters " Ca." and "Cas." and
cut out of the official check book,) sent by the said
Paton, on the 12th of July, 1817, by the hands of the
said Philip H. Minor, then being teller as aforesaid,
to Richard Smith, Cashier of the Office of Discount
and Deposit of the Bank of the United States at
Washington, to be paid in liquidation of a balance
due from the said Mechanics' Bank to the said Office
of Discount and Deposit: That the said letter was

OF THE UNITED STATES.
82o.
delivered by the said Minor to the said Smith, and
%Iechnics'
were
same
the
in
the checks and moneys contained
Bank
applied to the credit of the said Mechanics' Bank
V.
That among the checks so sent, was one for Bank of Columbia.
V17,626 6, written uppn, and cut out of the check
book aforesaid, and in the words and figures following, .to wit:

eIlchanics' Bank of Alexandria, July 12, 1817.
No. 32.
Cashier of the Branch Bank of the United
States, Washington-Pay to the order of Philip H.
Minor, amount of discount made me, which I believe is seventeen thousand six hundred and twentysix dollars and five cents.
WM. PATON, Jun.
That the said Richard Smith, about.the 17th of
July, 1817, did cause the same to be presented to
the Bank of Columbia for payment, and the same
was accordingly paid, and was thereupon imme.
diately charged to the said Mechanics' Bank.
Evidence was further offered to prove that the said
Riclj,4rd Smith considered the said check as the official check of the said William Paton, and it was so
paid by him ; and that the Cashier of the Bank of
Columbia also considered it as the official check of
the said Paton, and it was so paid by him.
Evidence was further offered, on the part of the
Mechanics' Bank, to prove that the said William
Paton, at the time lie drew the said check, declared
it was his private individual check; that he had
Vor,. V.

4E

380

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

funds'in the Bank of Columbia to meet it, and that
Mechanics' it was passed by him to the said Mechanics' Bank
as the individual check of the said William Paton.
Bank
V.
18520.

Bank of Co- And evidence was further offered to prove that the
lumia. Mechanics' Bank paid to the said Paton the, amount

of the said check.
Upon the evidence thus offered by the plaintiffs
below, the counsel for the defendants objected to the
whole of the said evidence, -and insisted, that if the said
check for 10,000 dollars, could be used as evidence
against the said Mechanics' Bank, that the character
of the said check could only be decided by the
check itself, and that no parol or other testimony
could be received to-explain the same, and objected
to the testimony offered upon that ground. But the
Court overruled the objection, and gave it as their
opinion to the jury, that the said check was, in connexion with the other, evidence, proper and competent evidence in this case against the said Mechanics'
Bank, and that it was competent to explain the character- of the- said check-; or, in other words, to
prove, by parol or other testimony, that the -said
check was drawn under such circumstances, and in
such a manner, as-justified the plaintiffs in con~dering it as an official check, and paying it As such, and
charging the same to the debit of the defendants.
And the evidence offered as aforesaid, with the said
check, was admitted by the Court, and given in evidence to the jury.
The defendants below then -prayed the opinion
of the Court, and their instruction to the jury, that
the check-for 10,000 dollars, produced in evidence

t(F

PHE UNITED STATES.

1820.
by the plaintiffs, is, on the face of it, a private, and
not an official check, and of itself cannot, in law, Mechanics'
charge the Mechanics' Bank with the payment of Bauk
the said 10,000 dollars; and that the said William Bank of CoPaton was liable in his individual character for the lumbia.
payment of the same. Which opinion the Court refused to give.
They also prayed the Court to instruct the jury,
that the check aforesaid was, upon the face of it,
primafacie evidence of its being the private individual check of the said William Paton, and the possession of the said check by the said Mechanics,
Bank, if proved to be in their possession, was priz=
facie evidence that they had paid a value for it; and
that unless the Bank of Columbia should satisfy the
jury by other evidence than the said check, that it
was an official check of the cashier of the said bank,
ihat the jury should find their verdict for the defend.ants. Which instruction the Court refused to give.
The defendants below also prayed the Court to
instruct the jury, that if they should be of opinion,
that the check was drawn by the said William Pa-

ton as his individual check, and w:'s received by the

said Mechanics' Bank, as the individual check of
the said Williai Paton, and that the bank paid to
the said Paton the full amount of the said check,
.that then the said bank having received the amount
thereof from the bank of the United States as aforesaid, would have a right to retain the amount of the
said check as against the said Bank of Columbia,
notwithstanding the said Bank of Columbiamay have
been under an impression that it was the official check

332

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
of the said William Paton.
-oni" Court refused to give.

Which instruction the

Mechanics'.
Bank

A bill of exceptions was filed, and a verdict and
Bank of Co- judgment thereon having been rendered for the plaintiff, the cause was brought by writ of errbr to this
luImnbia.
Court.
Jfarch 8t1h.

Mr. Swann, and Mr. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error, argued, 1. That parol evidence to prove the
character or capacity in which the check was drawn,
was clearly inadmissible. The check bears, on the
face of it, all the qualities of a bill of exchange. It
binds the drawer in his individual capacity. When
it is competent for a party to hind himself individually, parol evidence cannot be introduced to show,
that what he has in fact done in his own name, was
intended to be done as an agent for others.a If one
of several partners promise individually to pay a
debt, he will not be permitted to show that it was
due. jointly from himself and his partners.' And,
generally, all. parol evidence to contradict, or vary,
a written instrument, is inadmissible.0 The object
of the testimony in the present case, is, not to show
that the drawer is liable to a greater or a less extent
than that expressed on the face of the check, but to
make a corporation, whose servant he was, liable
for a debt which, according to the face of the instrument, is a private debt. For if the check,-on the
a Frontin v. Small, Lord Ram. 1418. Salk. 96. Wilks v.
Pack, 2 East, 142. Preston v. Merceau, 2 Win. Black. 1249.
Meies v. Ansell, 3 Wils. 275.
b Murray v. Somerville, 2 Camp. . P. 99.
c Russell v. Clarke 3 Dalil 12t. and the cases ihere - ,td.

OF 'ril-

.NJ'ED .vTArES.

ioce -f it, was an official one, the evidence was un1820.
necessary ; and introdicing it is an admission that
,leehanics'
Bank
the instrument itself was not sufficient to bind the
V.
corporation. 2. The evidence of the debt being a Bankof Cowritten instrument, the construction of it is matter lumbia
of law for the decision of the Court, and the Court
oight to have instructed the jury, that the check was,
on the face of it, a private, and not an official check,
and could not bind the Mechanics' Bank. 3. But
at all events, the check was prima facie evidence of
its being the private check of the drawer, and the
possession of it by the plaintiffs in error, was also
primafacieevidence of their having paid a valuable
consideration for it. 4. Again ; this action cannot
be maintained, because the contract upon which it is
brought was not made in conformity with the charter of the Mechanics' Bank, which provides, (s. 17.)
1Cthat all bills, bonds, notes, and every other contract
or engagement on behalf of the corporation, shall be
signed by the president, and countersigned by the
cashier; and the corporation shall, in no case, be liable for any contract or engagement, unless the same
shall be signed and countersigned as aioresaid."
Mr. Jones arid Mr. Key, contra, insisted, 1. That
the check, upon the face of it, did not purport to be
the private check of Paton, but the check of the
bank, drawn by him as its Cashier, and that the
presumption was, that it was an official act. 2. But
supposing it to be equivocal on the face of the instrument, whether he acted in his official or private
capacity, extrinsic parol evidence, to show in what
rapacity he acted, wa:. admissible.
[his would not

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
M

B-ak
Bank of Columbia.

be evidence to contradict the written instrument, but
only to explain it." Suppose the Bank of Columbia
had sued Paton, the date and entire face of the check
would have been sufficient to defeat their action.
There was enough to raise a presumption that he
acted officially, because the act was within the scope
of his authority. No rule of law obliged him to add
to his name any designation of his official character;
and even supposing him to be liable in his individual
capacity, it does not follow that his principals are
not liable for what he has done, the presumption
being strongly in favour of the official character of the
aet. And if it be doubtful whether he is personally
liable to the Bank of Columbia, he is certainly liable
to the Mechanics' Bank, whose servant he was; who
had the best means of knowing and correcting the
fraud or mistake ; and who, upon the principle of the
rule de damno evitando, ought to bear the loss.
3. As to the law incorporating the Mechanics'
Bank, it has no application to this case, unless it be
contended that it would eltend to the case of a deposit, and every other case where the law implies a
contract. The action is not brought upon any such
express undertaking as the act contemplates must be
signed by the President, &c.; but upon an undertaking which the law implies, and which it may as
well imply in the case of a corporation as of an individual.

.march i3th.

Mr. Justice JonrNsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court. The merits of this case lie within a very
limited compass. The question is, whether a certain
a Dexter v. Hodgeon, I Cranch, 3-45

OF THE UNITED STATES

act, done by the Cashier of a Bank, was done in his
official or individual capacity ? Had the draft signed
by Paton, borne no marks of an official character on
the face of it, the case would have presented more
difficulty.

But if marks of an official character not

1820.

Iecbanics
Bank
V.

Bank of Co-

lumbia.

only exist on the face, but predominate, the case is
really a very familiar one. Evidence to fix its true
character becomes indispensable.
It has been contended, but the argument was not ofThe
sec.
the 17th
chartef"
pressed with much confidence, that this defendant icorpohang
the MechaRics' Bn not
could not be bound otherwise than in conformity
•
applicable
to
case.
this
iS
it
which
by
charter;
the
of
section
17th
with -the
enacted, "that all bills, bonds, notes, and every other
contract or engagement, on behalf of the corporation,
shall by signed by the President, and countersigned
by the Cashier; and the funds of the corporation
shall in no case be liable for any contract or engagement, unless the same shall be signed and countersigned as aforesaid."
It is to be hoped this argument was not intended
'to reach the case of a deposit of money ; and yet if
it proves any thing, it proves that no contract in law
could be imputed to this bank. The truth is, that a
check is properly neither a bond, bill, or note, with
regard to the bank drawn upon, but an acquittance.
And the contract arising out of a payment upon it,
is a' contract for money advanced, and must be so
declared upon. It is true that checks are generally
made payable to bearer, and this was made payable
to order; but it is in evidence that it was drawn as a
check, and paid as a check, and the declaration cbntains only the common money counts.
Of the six exceptions in the transcript of the

336

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

record, the 1st, 2d, 4th, and .5th, are taken on behalf'
Upon com1ecbnics' of the Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria.
Bank
paring these exceptions with the evidence, it does not
V.
Bank of Co. appear that they affirm any other proposition growlumbia.
ing out of that evidence, but that the check, on the
1820.

Presumption7
that the check
oficialc,
was
and parol
tes- face of it, purported to be
timnony adjit-- and no extrinsic evidence
sl.le to exlainthe am- the contrary.
iguity.
The only ground-on

the private check of Paton,
could be received to prove

which it can be contended
that this check was a private check, is, that it had
not below the name the letters Cas. or Ca. But
the fallacy of the proposition will at once appear,
from the consideration, that the consequence would
be, that all Paton's checks must have been adjudged
private. For no definite meaning could be attached
to the addition of those letters without the aid of
parol testimony.
But the fact that this appeared on its face to be a
private chcck, is by no means to be conceded. On
the contrary, the appearance of the corporate name
of the institution on the face of the paper, at once
leads to the belief that it is a corporate, and not an
individual transaction: to which must be added the
circumstances, that the cashier is the drawer, and
the teller the payee; and the form of ordinary checks
deviated from by the substitution of to order, for to
bearer. The evidence, therefore, on the face of the
bill, predominates in favour of its being a bank transaction. Applying, then, the plaintiff's own principle
to the case, and the restriction as to the production of
parol or extrinsic evidence could have been only
applicable to himself. But, it is enough for the purposes of the defendant to establish, that there exist-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

et, on the face of the paper, circumstances from
which it might reasonably be inferred, that it was
either one or the other. In that case, it became in-

MechanicS'

dispensable to resort to extrinsic evidence, to remove

Bakof C-

this purthe doubt. The evidence resorted to for
pose was the most obvious and reasonable possible,
viz. that this was the appropriate form of an official
check ; that it was, in fact, cut out of the official
check-book of the bank, and noted on the margin;
that the money was drawn in behalf of, and applied
to the use of the Mechanics' Bank ; and by all the
banks, and all the officers of the banks through which
it passed, recognized as an official transaction. It
is true, it was in evidence that this check was credited to Paton's own account, on the books of his
bank. But it was done by his own order, and with
the evidence before their eyes, that it was officially
drawn. This would never have been sanctioned by the
directors, unless for reasons which they best understood, and on account of debits which they only
could explain.

1820.

Bank

It is by no means true, as was contended in argu-.The

ment, that the acts of agents derive their validity
from professing, on the face of them, to have been
done in the exercise of their agency.

43

o.f

te xecut
of written in

st ln,ifisoW
farexplainab'e

,poei4
In the more i3denice.

solemn exercise of derivative powers, as applied to
the execution of instruments known to the common
law, rules of form have been prescribed. But in the
diversified exercise of the duties of a general agent,
the liability of the principal depends upon the facts,
1. That the act was done in the exercise, and,
:. Within the limits of the powers delegated. Those
VoL. V.

a

338

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

facts are necessarily inquirable into by a Court and

The Josefa
Segunda.

jury; and this inquiry is not confined to written instruments, (to which alone the principle contenoed
for could apply,) but to any act with, or without writing, within the scope of the power or confidence re-

posed in the agent; as, for instance, in the case of
money credited in the books of a teller, or proved to
have been deposited with him, though he omits to

credit it.
Judgment affirmed.

(PaIzE AND INSTANCE COURT.)

The

Carricaburaet al.
Claimants.

JOSEFA SEGUNDA,

An information under the act of the 3d of March, 1807, c. 77. to
prevent the importation of slaves into the United States. The alleged unlawful importation attempted to be excused upon the
plea of distress. Excuse repelled, and condemnation pronounced.
Upon a piratical capture, the property of the original owners cannot
be forfeited for the misconduct of the captors in violating the municipal laws of the country where the vessel seized by them is carried.
But where the capture is made by a regularly commissioned captor,
he acquires a title to the captured property, which can only be devested by recapture, or by the sentence of a competent tribunal of
his own country ; and the property is subject to forfeiture for a violation, by the captor, of the revenue or other municipal laws of the
neutral country into which the prize may be carried.

APPEAL

from the District Court of Louisiana.

From the proceedings in the Court below, it appear-

