CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
IV'Clung

V. C'
Ross.

extent of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction granted in the
but how far it had been conferred by Congress
upon any particular Court of the Union.

Sconstitution,

(LOCAL LAW.)

M'CLUNG V.

Ross.

Under the laws of Tennessee, where lands are sold by a summary pro.
ceeding for the payment of taxes, it is essential to the validity of
the sale, and of the deed made thereon, that every fact necessary
to Xive the Court jurisdiction should appear upon the record.
Under the statute of limitations of Tennessee, the running of the statute can only be stopped by actual suit, if the party claiming under
it has peaceable possession for seven years. But such a possession
cannot exist if the party having the better right takes actual possession in pursuance of his right.
Onetenant'in common may oust his co-tenant, and hold in severalty;
buta silent possession, unaccompanied with any act amounting to
an ouster, or giving notice to the co-tenant that his possession is adverse, cannot be construed into an adverse possession.

Feb. loLh.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Williams" for the
plaintiff in error, and by the Attorney- General, and
Mr. F. Jones,' for the defendant.
a He cited 2 Tenn. Rep. 44. 218. 186. 365. 358. 242. 1 Tenn.
Rep. 362. 467. 545. 1 Hayw. Rep. 24. 62. 65. 95. 2 Hayw.
Rep. 80. 3 Mass. Rep. 379. 2 Tidd's Pract. 936. 2 Binney,
223. 329. 1 Binney, 40. 4 Dall. 226. 1 Wash. Rep. 313.
9 Johns. Rep. 58. 179.
b They cited 1 Tenn. Rep. 119. 126. 436. 2 Tenn. Rep. 40t
5 Hayw. Rep. 294. 1 Hayw. 176. 4 Wheat. 77.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

18,o.
delivered the optnion of the Court. This is an action of ejectment
V.
brought by the lessee of David Ross against Charles
M'Clung, for 5,000 acres of land, lying in the dis- .Feb. i4th.
trict of East Tennessee.
At the trial of the cause, the plaintiff in the Court
below gave in evidence two grants from the State of
North Carolina, for the land in controversy, to
Stockly Donalson and John Hackett, the one dated
the 20th of September, 1787, and the other dated the
22d of February, 1795. He also gave in evidence a
deed of conveyance of the said land, purporting to
be from Stockly Donalson and John Hackett, dated
the 29th of September, 1793, and registered in Hawkins county, Tennessee, on the 27th of December,
1793. The regular registration of this deed, so far
as respected Stockly Donalson, was admitted by the
defendant. Its registration as to John Hackett, was
not admitted, and was proved only by the following

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

endorsements.
"December Sessions, 1793.
This deed was proved in open Court, and ordered
RICHARD MITCHELLI C. H. C.
to record. Test.
This conveyance was registered 27th of December, 1793, in liber G. p. 127. in the register's office of
THOMAS JACKSON, C. R."
Hawkins county.
It is stated in the bill of exceptions, that the execution of the deed on the part of Hackett, was not

proved.
The defendant also claimed under Stockly Donalson; but his deeds being of subsequent date, could confer no title while the deed to Ross remained in force.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
M'Clung

V.

Ross.

For the purpose of invalidating this deed, he offered
in evidence certain records of the County Court of
Rhea, showing that the land had been sold for the
non-payment of taxes, had been conveyed by the
sheriff to the purchaser, and by the purchaser to the
defendant. The regularity of this sale, and the validity of the deeds made in consequence of it, were
contested, and the Court determined against their
validity; to which opinion of the Court the counsel
for the defendant excepted.
In the year 1803, the legislature of Tennessee
passed an act, subjecting all lands to which the Indian claim was extinguished, held by deed, &c.to
taxes. The 13th section of the act provides, that
"in case there shall not be any goods or chattels on
which the sheriff can distress for public taxes, &c.
he shall report the same to the Court of his county."
The Court is then directed to make out certain lists,
and to direct certain publications, after which the
Court may enter up judgment, on which execution
may issue, and the lands be sold. In 1807, the legislature passed a supplementary act, the 3d section of which enacts, that it shall be the duty of the
collector of taxes in each county, after the 1st day of
January in each year, to make report to the Court in
writing, " of all such tracts or parts of tracts of land
as have, from his own knowledge, or from the information of others, not been returned for taxation for
the said preceding year ; and it shall be the duty of
the said Court to cause said report to be recorded in
books to be kept for that purpose, and to cause judgment to be entered up for double the tax due on the

119

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said land, not returned for taxation, and so unpaid,
and shall order the same to be sold," &c.
In Jar..ary, 1810, Miller Francis, collector of
taxes in Rhea county for the year 1809, reported to
the Court, that the following lands were not listed for
taxation for the year 1809, to wit, &c. Then follows
a list of several tracts of land, among which is the tract
in question, reported three several times in the following terms:

1820.
M'CIUO3

V.

Ross.

Quanlity. No. of title. Date ef title. Location. Tax.
Reputed owners.
20 Sept. 1787. Pleasant, &c.
5000
209
Stockly Donalson,
22 Feb. 1795.
1347
S. Donalson and John Hackett, 5000
209
20 Sept. 1787.
5000
David Ross,

Upon the return of which report the Court entered up a judgment for the sale of the said lands, and
after the publication required by law, an execution
was directed, under which the said land was sold as
being three distinct tracts ; when Robert Farquharson became the purchaser of the tracts reported to
belong to Stockly Donalson, and to Stockly Donalson and John Hackett; and the agent of David Ross became the purchaser of the tract reported
to belong to David Ross.
A question of considerable difficulty arises on the Inthe
validity of these sales.

unma-

of
Under the act of 1803, the o he sale
lands in Ten-

for
the
power of the Court to render judgment in such cases nesse,
payment
of
eery
for the sale of land, is founded on there being no per- taxes,
factnecessary
sonal property from which the tax might be made. to5i,j-ridiction to the

The jurisdiction of the Court depends on that fact.= inthe
Whether it is necessary that its existence should be record.

shown in the judgment .of the Court, is a question
on which the State Courts appear to have decided
differently at different times. But the last, and we

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

MCiung

believe, the correct opinion, reported in 5 .Haywood, 394. establishes the general principle, that in
proceedings, every fact which is nethese
cessarysummary
to give jurisdiction, ought to appear in
the
record of the Court. The act of 1807 directs the
Court to proceed on the return of the collector, that
the taxes of the preceding year are unpaid, or that
the land has not been returned for taxation. Whether
this act, which is supplemental to that of 1803, authorizes the Court to give judgment for the sale of
land, although there may be personal property in the
county sufficient to pay the tax; or only varies the
mode of proceeding against the land, without varying the circumstances under which it may become
liable, is a question which does not appear to have
been decided in Tennessee, and which it is unnecessary to decide in this case, because we are all of opinion, that if the sale was valid, Ross is to be considered as the purchaser of his own title, and Farquharson as the purchaser of the title of Donalson
and Hackett. The objection to this is, that the agent
of Ross stood by, and permitted Farquharson to bid.
But this objection implies a knowledge on the part
of Ross, or his agent, that the land sold in the name
of Donalson and Hackett, was his land. There is no
evidence that either of them possessed this knowledge; nor are the circumstances such as would justify its being presumed. Were the Court required to
presume fraud on this occasion, it is not to Ross, or
to his agent, that the evidence on this particular part
of the transaction would justify us in ascribing it.
We think, then, that the defendants in the Court be-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

low, acquired no title to Ross's land by the sheriff's
sale or deeds. We think, then, that there was no
error in rejecting these deeds.
The defendant, also, claimed the benefit of the
act of limitations, which makes seven year's peaceto the acable and adverse possession a complete bar
tion.a

In support of this claim, he relied on the testimony of John Meriott, who swore, that in pursuance of
an agreement between him and John Hackett, who
informed him that the land belonged to him, Hackett,
a The statute of Tennessee of 1797, c. 47., made to settle
the true construction of the statute of limitations of North Carolina of 1715, provides, " that in all cases, whenever any
person, or persons, shall have had seven years' peaceable possession of any land, by virtue of a grant, or deed of conveyance
founded upon a grant, and no legal claim by suit in law, by
such, set up to said land, within the above term, that then, and
in that case, the person or persons, so holding possession as
aforesaid, shall be entitled to hold possession, in preference to
all other claimants, such quantity of land as shall be specified
in his, or their said grant, or deed of conveyance founded on
a grant as aforesaid." The act then proceeds to bar the claim
of those who shall neglect, for the term of seven years, to avail
themselves of any title they may have.
. Under the statute of North Carolina, it had been determined
by the Courts of that State, that it afforded protection to those
only who held by colour of title. And under the "actof Ten
nessee, it is settled by the decisions of the local Courts, and of
this Court, that it does not, like other statutes of limitation,
protect a mere naked possession, but that its operation is to be
limited to a possession of seven years, acquired and held under
a grant or a deed founded on a grant. PattonsI.csse. v. .aston,
ante, vol. I.p. 476
T

X AT.. V

1820.

m'Clung
V.
Constructionof
the statute of
linitations of

CASES IN TIE SUPREM41E COURT

and the defendant, M'Clung, he tool; possession of
1807, built a house, and cleared
f'CIung Sthe land in March,
V.
seven or eight acres, and retained possession of the
land until the contract was rescinded. By a conROSS.
1820.

tract with M'Clung, he agreed to hold possession for
M'Ching and Hackett. It also appea red in evidence
that Meriott remained in possession until the autumn
of 1808, when he surrendered it to Hackett, who,
in the succeeding spring, moved with his family into
the house Meriott had built, where he resided until
his death, since which event it has been occupied by
his widow and family.
The plaintiff then proved, that in 1795, John
Hackett showed this agent of Ross, the land in controversy as the land sold to him ; that in the year
1813, the same agent agreed to lease a part of the
land to one Cox, who, in pursuance of the said agreement entered thereon, and built a small house, but
being threatened by M'Clung with a suit, he abandoned it.
Upon this testimony, the defendant in the Circuit Court moved the Court to charge the jury, 1st.
That if they believed the possession takcn by Meriott
to have been on behalf of Hackett and MC/lng,
and that Hackett continued said possession for himself and 11I'Clung, for seven years hefore suit, it was
adverse, and would bar the claim of the lessor of the
plaintiff. And farther, that the possession of the land
taken by Cox, as tenant of Ross, would not suspend
the statute of limitations, and that the effect of the
said statute could be defeated only by suit at law.
This instruction the judge refused to give, but did

OF THE UNITED STATES.

charge the jury that Hackett was by law a tenant in
common with Ross, of which character he could not
discharge himselfby agreement with a younger purchaser from Donalson, and that the statute would
not bar his right. With respect to the occupancy of
Cox' the judge said, that merely going upon the land
would not stop the running of the statute, but that
if an older adverse claimant took actual possession
by building houses, clearing land, &c. the operation
of the statute of limitations might be thereby suspended. To this opinion, also, the counsel for the
defendant excepted.
On examining the whole testimony stated in the
bill of exceptions, it appears that the contract with
Hackett, which is stated by Meriott in his deposition, was a contrict for the sale and purchase of a
part of the tract of 6,000 acres sold by Donalson to
Ross, and that his contract with M'Clung was a
sale of M'Clung's part of the same land, on condition that he would hold the whole tract for M'Clung
and Hackett. The actual possession of Meriott,
then, does not appear to have extended beyond his
purchase. He does not allege that Hackett put him
in possession of more laud than was sold to him;
nor does it appear that M'Clung put him in po:,session of any land farther than the virtual possession
which was to be implied from the agreement which
has been stated. The possession of Meriott, then,
was an actual possession of a part of the land under
a purchase. It was his own possessioa, in his own
right; and not the possession of Hackett and
M'Clung. His agreement with T'Ching to holi

1.eo.
'* hmg
v.

124,

CASES IN THE SUPR EME COURT

the residue of the land for Hackett and M'Ciung.
ung- never having been followed, so far as is shown to the
R.
Court, by actual occupation of any part of that residue, cannot, we think, be construed
into such a

1820.

possession by Hackett and M'Clung as to affect the
title of Ross. If the defendant cannot avail himself
of the possession of Meriott, then it is not shown
that the bar was complete when this suit was brought.
The contract of sale with Meriott was rescinded in
the autumn or winter of 1808, and Hackett entered
into the land in the spring of 1809. This suit was
instituted on the 27th of March, 1816. The testimony does not show that the entry of Hackett was
anterior to the 27th of March, 1809. This, however, ought to be left to the jury. But the judge was
of opinion that the possession of Hackett was not
adverse to that of Ross, because they were tenants
in common.
That one tenant in common may oust his co-tetenant and-hold in severalty, is not to be questioned.
But a silent possession, accompanied with no act
which can amount to an ouster, or give notice to his
co-tenant that his possession is adverse, ought not,
we think, to be construed into an adverse possession.
The principles laid down in Barr v. G ratz, (4 Wheat.
213.) apply to this case.
Neither does it appear to this Court, that there is
error in that part of the charge which respects the
occupation of Cox on the part of Ross. It is, that
merely going upon the land will not stop the running
of the statute, but that if an older adverse claimant
took actual possession by building houses, clearing

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

12.5

1820.
land, &c., the operation of the statute of limitations
might be thereby suspended. It has been contend- "'"n
V.
ed, that the statute of Tennessee can be stopped
possesthe
when
true,
is
This
only by actual suit.
sion is such as by its continuance to constitute a bar.
But to make it such, it must be peaceable for seven
years. This is the fact which creates the bar. This
fact cannot exist, if the person having the better title
takes actual possession in pursuance of his right. It
is unnecessaiy to inquire whether the subsequent
abandonment of this possession rendered it in this
case a nullity, because the point is rendered unimportant by the circumstances that Ross and Hackett
were tenants in common. There is, then, no error
in the charge so far as respects the statute. of limitations.
But the counsel also requested the judge to charge
the jury, that the name of Hackett being signed
to the deed from Stockly and Donalson to Ross,
since the delivery of said deed, amounts to such an
alteration or addition as will vitiate such deed, unless accounted for by the plaintiff. This charge, also,
.the judge refused to give, but did instruct the
jury that the title was vested in Ross by the deed
from Donalson, .nd could not be devested, although
there might be an alteration or addition in a material
part of the said deed, such as the name of Hackett
being put to the deed and not proved.
There is some ambiguity in this instruction, and rGro,,,nd
rrrig

there is some doubt in the state of the fact.

The J,,gmeit
thlis
case.

counsel for the defendant assumes the fact, that the
signature of Hackett was affixed to the deed after its

f
the
ir-

CAbES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

Ros.

delivery. This does not appear in the evidence as
stated. Nor does it appear whether the signature of
Ha.ckett was affixed, before or after the deed was registered. It was not proved or registered as to Hackett, and is void as to him. The Court is not, however, prepared to say, that it is void as to Donalson.
But the instruction given by the judge is in terms
which might mislead the jury, and which appear in
fact to have misled them. He says, that the title was
vested in Ross by the deed from Donalson, and
could not be devested by the addition of the name
of Hackett. Now, this suit was instituted for the
whole tract, and the title asserted by Ross was a
title to the whole tract. The instruction of the
judge might have been understood as informing the
jury that the title vested by the deed conformed to
the title claimed by Ross. In fact, it was so understood ; for the jury found a verdict for the whole
tract, and the-Court gave its judgment for the whole.
Now, Ross had no title to more than a moiety, and
the judge ought so to have instructed the jury. For
this reason, the judgment is to be reversed, and the
cause remanded for a new trial.
Judgment reversed.
cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for
East Tennessee, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court,
that the Circuit Court erred in instructing the jury
that the title to the whole tract of land in the proceedings mentioned, and for which judgment was
JUDGMENT.-This

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rendered in the said Circuit Court, was vested in
David Ross, whereas the said Court ought to have
said
instructed the jury that only a moiety of the
land was vested in him. It is, therefore, ADJUDGED
and ORDERED, that the judgment of the said Circuit
Courtin this case be, and the same is, hereby reversed
and annulled. And it is further ordered, that the
said cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court
with directions to issue a venirefacias de novo.

(PRIZE.)

The

VEN*S, JADEMEROWSKY,

Claimant.

A question of proprietary interest, on farther proof.

Restitution de-

creed.
Captors' costs and expenses ordered to be paid by the claimant, it
being his fault that defective documents were put on board.
On fartherproof, the affidavit of the claimant is indispensably necessary.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of Georgia.

This cause was continued for farther proof at February term, 1816. (Vide ante, vol. I. p. 112.) Owing to various accidents, the farther proof was not
received until the last term, and the cause was now
argued upon the farther proof then produced and
filed. It consisted of invoices of the cargo ; bills of
lading; accounts of sale ; accounts of disbursements the original correspondence between the

1820.

The Venus.

