t)

THE UNITED STATES.

885

i8-2o.
The compact with Virginia, under which Kentucky became a State, stipulates, that the navigation "'
La Amistad
of, and jurisdiction over, the river, shall be concurrent ae rues.
between the new States, and the States which may
possess the opposite shores of the said river. This
term seems to be a repetition of the idea under which
the cession was made. The shores of a river border on the water's edge.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

(enIzE.)

LA AmiSTAD DE

Ru s.-Almiral, Libellant.

Qucere, Whether, where a prize has been taken by a privateer fitted
out in violation of our neutrality, the vessels of the United States
have a right to recapture the prize and bring it into our ports for
adjudication?
in cases of marine torts, the probable profits of a voyage are not a fit
rule for the ascertainment of damages.
In cases of violation of our neutrality by any of the belligerents, if the
prize comes voluntarily within our territory, it is restored to the
original owners by our Courts. But their jurisdiction for this purpose, under the law of nations, extends only to restitution of the
specific property, with costs and expenses, during the pcndency of
the suit, and does not extend to the infliction of vindictive damages
as in ordinary cases of marine torts.
Where the original owner seeks for restitution in our Courts upon the
ground of a violation of our neutrality by the captors, the onus pro.
bandi rests upon him, and if there be reasonable doubt respecting
the facts, the Court will decline to exercise its jurisdiction,]

APPEAL
VOL. V.

from the District Court of Louisiana.
49

386
1820.
La Amistad

doeRues.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

This was the case of a Spanish ship.captured by
the Venezuelan privateer La Guerriere, on the high
seas, in November, 1817, and afterwards forcibly
taken possession of near the mouth of the Mississippi, by a detachment from the United States ketch
Surprise, and brought into the port of New-Orleans.
A libel was there filed in the District Court, in behalf of the original Spanish owners, claiming restitution of the property, upon the ground, (among
other things,) that the privateer had augmented her
crew in the United States, during the cruise, and before the capture. A claim was given in by the original captors, denying the allegations in the libel, and
praying restitution of the property as lawfully captured. At the hearing in the District Court, the
cause turned almost entirely upon the question of
the augmentation of the crew, and the Court decreed restitution of the property to the original Spaniish owners with damages, which were ordered to
be ascertained by assessors. The assessors reported
damages as follows: to the owners of- the ship for
$625 00
loss by plunder,
and to the owners of the cargo for loss of
4000 00
market by the capture,
575 00
and loss by plunder,
$5,200 00
in the whole,
The report was confirmed by the Court, and damages decreed accordingly. From this decree, the captors appealed to this Court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
Mr. C. 3. Ingersoll, for the appellants, argued
upon the facts, to show that there was no sufficient La Amistad
evidence to prove that the privateer had augmented de Rues.
her force in the ports of the United States. He in- Xarrh 8th.
sisted, that the burthen of proof to establish this fact
rested with the original Spanish owners, who claimed
restitution upon it; and that they 4ad not shown, beyond all reasonable doubt, to the satisfaction of the
Court, that the captors bad increased their armament
in violation of our neutrality. lie also argued, that
supposing the misconduct on the part of the captors
ever so clealy established by the evidence, the jurisdiction. of our Courts does not extend to the infliction of vindictive damages for their offence, but is
limited by the law of nations to restitution of the
specific property illegally captured. To carry it further, wouldbe to assume the entire prize jurisdictiou
with all its incidents, which is exclusively vested in
the Courts of the captor's country. At all events, it
is well established, that the probable profits of a
voyage is not a fit rule for the assessment of daroages in cases of marine torts, and even upon that
ground alone the decree must be reversed.

The Attorney- General, contra, insisted, that the
evidence of an illegal augmentation of the force of
the privateer in our ports,. was sufficiently established bythe evidence. He argued, that where the
neutrality of our ports is violated in this manner, and
the property captured is brought within our territory, the Courts of this country, proceeding in rem,
are bound not merely to restore the specific property

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
to the original owners, but to restore it with costs
LAmista and damages, as in an ordinary case of illegal sei..

de Rues.

Mavch 14th.

zure. Being possessed of the principal question of
prize or no prize, that necessarily draws after it all
incidental questions; and the one is no more an invasion of the exclusive jurisdiction of the belligerent
Prize Courts than the other. The neutral tribunal
having taken jurisdiction for the purpose of vindicating the neutrality of its own country, by placing
things in the same state they would have been in,
had not that neutrality been violated,-can only do
complete justice between the parties, by inflicting
upon the captors such damages as will afford the
original owners an indemnity for the loss they have
sustained.

Mr. Justice STORy delivered the opinion of the
Court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as follows. We pass over the question, whether, supposing there was an illegal augmentation of the crew
of the privateer in our ports, the American captors
had any right forcibly to bring in the prize for adjudication. It is an important question, and when it
shall be necessary to decide it, it will deserve serious consideration. The present cause may well be
disposed of without any discussion concerning it.
Two questions have been made at the bar. 1. Whether, in point of fact, the illegal augmentation of the
crew is so established as to entitle the Spanish libellants to restitution. 2. If so, whether the damages
were rightfully awarded.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

589

The last question will be first considered. And 1820.
as to the item of damages for loss of market, we are L-a
"aA"s"
Amistad
Rues.
de probable
all of opinion that it is clearly inadmissible. In The
cases of marine torts, this Court have deliberately profit.ofav.
age not a pro.
role for
settled, that the probable profits of a voyage are not perheascertainof damaa fit mode for the ascertainment of damages. a It is ment
ges in cases of
tort.
marine
own
its
in
considered that the rule is too uncertain
nature, and too limited in its applicability, to entitle
it to judicial sanction. The same principle must
govern in the present case.
.Extent of the
But a more general objection is to the allowance jurisdiction
oi
peutral
the
of any damages in cases of this sort, as between
in casesCourts
of a
belligerents. bellgerntsasss
The doctrine heretofore asserted
nirliof
~e in
inneutrality
this Court is, that whenever a capture is made by
any belligerent in violation of our neutrality, if the
prize come voluntarily within our jurisdiction, it
shall be restored to the original owners. This is
done upon the footing of the general law of nations;
and the doctrine is fully recognised by the act of
Congress of 1794. But this Court have never yet
been understood to carry their jurisdiction, in cases of
violation of neutrality, beyond the authority to decree restitution of the specific property, with the
costs and expenses during the pending of the judicial
proceedings. We are now called upon to give general damages for plunderage, and if the particular circumstances of any case shall hereafter require it, we
may be called upon to inflict exemplary damages to
the same extent as i the ordinary cases of marine
torts. We entirely disclaim any right to inflict such

a The Amiable Nancy, 3 Wheat. 546,

1990
1820.

LaAmistad
de Rues.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

damages; and consider it no part of the duty of a
neutral nation to interpose, upon the mere footing of
the law of nations, to settle all the rights and wrongs
which may grow out of a capture between belligerents. Strictly speaking, there can be no such thing
as a marine tort between the belligerents. Each
has an undoubted right to exercise all the rights of
war against the other ; and it cannot be a matter of
judicial complaint, that they are exercised with severity, even if the parties do transcend those rules
which the. customary laws of war justify. At
least, they have never been held within the cognizance of the prize tribunals of neutral nations. The
captors are amenable to their own Government
exclusively, for any excess or irregularity in their
pro ceedings; and a neutral nation ought no otherwise to interfere, than to prevent captors from*obtaining any unjust advantage by a violation of its
neutral jurisdiction. Neutral nations may, indeed, inflict pecuniary, or other penalties, on the parties for
any such- violation; but it then does it professedly
in vindication of its own rights, and not by way of
compensation to the captured. When called upon
by either of the belligerents to act in such cases, all
that justice seems to require is, that the neutral natioti should fairly execute its own laws, and give no
asylum to the property unjustly captured. It is
bound, therefore, to restore the property if found
within its own ports; . but beyond this it is not
obliged to interpose between the belligerents. If indeed it were otherwise, there would be no end to
the difficulties and embarrassments of neutral prize

OF THE UNITED STATES.

18o.
tribunals. They would be compelled to decide in
every variety of shape upon marine trespasses in rem, )La Amistad
and in personam, between belligerents, without pos- de Rues.
sessing adequate means of ascertaining the real facts,
or of compelling the attendance of foreign witnesses;
and thus they would draw within their jurisdiction
almost every incident of prize. Such a course of
things would necessarily create irritations and animosities, and very soon embark neutral nations in all
the controversies and hostilities of the conflicting
parties. Considerations of public policy come therefore in aid of what we consider the law of nations
on this subject; and we may add, that Congress in
its legislation has never passed the limit which is
here marked out. Until Congress" shall choose to
prescribe a different rule, this Court will, in cases of
this nature; confine itself to the exercise Qf the simple authority to decree'restitution, and decline all inquiries into questions ofdamageis for asserted wrongs.
The decree for damages is, therefore, unhesitatingly
reversed.
The other question presents more difficulty. It di,onusproba,.
in case.,
restitumust be admitted, that there is positive testimony tionhe is claimedl

directly to the point of the illegal augmentation, of by heoriin.a
ngrou2of
the crew of the privateer; and if it stood uncontra- tha
dicted, and were liable to no deduction, the libellant
would certainly be entitled to restitution. But the
testimony as to the augmentation, comes chiefly from
very obscure persons, and is, in itself, in many respects, loose and equivocal; and"that of one? at least.
of the principal witncsses, is, in a most material fact,

pamert
'
r
uponthem.

392

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

directly contradicted by a written document, whose
LAmistd verity has not been questioned. It is proved, by the
de tues, report of an inspector made to the custom house,
that at the arrival of the privateer in port, she had
on board 49 men; yet, the witness alluded to, expressly alleges, that at the time of her arrival atNewOrleans, she had not more than ten or twelve persons
on board. It appears, too, that the crew of the privateer was wholly composed of foreigners, principally persons from the Spanish Maine, and from St.
Domingo. Being arrived at New-Orleans in the
course of a cruize, which is not proved to have ended
there, the natural presumption is, that her, original
crew continued attached to her; and this presumption is considerably fortified by the fact, that though
the officers of the custom house of that port vigilantly inquire into cases of this nature, there is nothing in their testimony, that in the slightest degree
affects the conduct of the privateer in an unfavourable manner. It certainly cannot be said, that the
evidence is free from all reasonable doubt. And, in
cases of this nature, where the libellant seeks the-aid
of a neutral Court to interpose itself against a belligerent capture, on account of a supposed violation
of neutrality, we think the burthen of proof rests
upon him. To justify a restitution to the original
owners, the violation of neutrality should be clearly
made out. If it remains doubtful, the Court ought
to decline the exercise of its jurisdiction, and leave
the property where it finds it. We cannot say that
the present case is clear from reasonable doubt; and,
1820.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

therefore, we reverse the decree of the District Court,
and order restitution to be made to the original
captD
tors ; but, under all the circumstances, the parties
are to bear their own costs.
Decree reversed.
DF.ca.ap. This cause came on to be heard on the
transcript of the record of the District Court of the
United States for the district of Louisiana, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
DECREED and ORDERED, that the decree of the said
District Court, in this case, be, and the same is, hereby
reversed and annulled. And this Court, proceeding
to pass such decree as the said District Court should
have passed, it is further DECREED and ORDERED, that
the libel be dismissed, and the said ship La Amistad,
her tackle, apparel, and-furniture, and cargo, be restored to the claimants. And it is further ORDEAED,
that each party pay their own costs.

VOL. V.

1820.
La

La 2. siastad

de -ues.

