CASES IN THE SUPREME GOURI
1820.

U. tae

.

litia act of Pennsylvania now in question, are repugnant to the constitutional laws of Congress on the
samne subject, and are utterly void ; and that, therefore, the judgment of the State Court ought to be
reversed. In this opinion I have the concurrence of
one of my brethren.
Judgment affirmed.

(COs sTTUTTo

The

.RAL
LAW.)

UNITED STATES v. WILTBERGER.

The Courts of the United States have no jurisdiction, under the act o1
April 30th, 1790, c. 36. of the crime of manslaughter, committed by
the master upon one of the seamen on board a merchant vessel of
the United States, lying in the river Tigris, in the empire of China,
35 miles above its mouth, off Wampoa, about 100 yards from the
sbore, in four and a half fathoms water, and below low water mark.
Though penal laws are to be construed strictly; yet the intention of
the legislature must govern in the construction of penal, as well as
other statutes, and they are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of the legislature.
In the act of April 30th. 1790, c. 36. the description of places contained in the 8th section, within which the offences therein enumerated
must be committed, in order to give the Courts of the Union jurisdiction over them, cannot be transferred to the 1 th section, so as to
give those Courts jurisdiction over a manslaughter committed in
the river of a foreign country, and not on the high sets.

THIS was an indictment for manslaughter, in the
Circuit Court of Pennsylvania. The jury found
the defendant guilty of the offence with which he

OF THE UNITED STATES.

stood indicted, subject to the opinion of the Court, 1820.
whether this Court has jurisdiction of the case, u. t
V.
which was as follows:
Wiltberger.
was
indictment,
the
in
The manslaughter charged
committed by the defendant, on board of the American ship the Benjamin Rush, on a seaman belonging
to the said ship, whereof the defendant was master,
in the river Tigris, in the empire of China, off Warnpoa, and about 100 yards from the shore, in four and
a half fathoms water, and below the low water mark,
thirty-five miles above the mouth of the river. The
water at the said place where the offence was committed, is fresh, except in very dry seasons, and the
tide ebbs and flows at, and above the said place.
At the mouth of the Tigris, the government of China
has forts on each side of the river, where customhouse officers are taken in by foreign vessels to prevent smuggling. The river at the mouth, and at
Wampoa, is about halfa mile in breadth.
And thereupon, the opinions of the Judges of the
Circuit Court, being opposed as to the jurisdiction
of the Court, the question was by them stated, and
directed to be certified to this Court.
Mr. C. J. Ingersoll,for the United States, argued,
that by the Constitution the judicial power extends
to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
and Congress is invested with authority to define
and punish piracies and other felonies committed on
the high seas. The judiciary act of 1789, c. 20. s.
11. gives jurisdiction over these offences to the Circuit Court. The act of April 30th, 1790. c. 36. for

Fe5. 14th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18z0.
U. States

1,.

Wiltberger.

the punishment of certain crimes against the United
States, s. 12. provides for the punishment of manslaughter committed on the high seas.6 But it is una The sections of this act commented on in the argument,
are as follows :
SEc. I. '1hat if any person or persons, owing allegiance to the
United States of America, shall levy war against them, or shall adhere to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort within the
United States, or elsewhere, and shall be thereof convicted, on
confession in open Court, or on the testimony of two witnesses
to the same overt act of the treason whereof he or they shall
stand indicted, such person or persons shall be adjudged guilty
of treason against the United States, and shall suffer death.
SEc I1. And be it enacted, That if any person or persons,
having knowledge of the commission of any of the treasons
aforesaid, shall conceal, and not as soon as may be disclose and
make known the same to the President of the United States, or
some of the Judges thereof, or to the President or Governor
of a particular State, or some one of the Judges or Justices
thereof, such person or persons, on conviction, shall be adjudged guilty of misprision of treason, and shall be imprisoned
not exceeding seven years, and fined not exceeding one thousand dollars.
SEC. III. And be it enacted, That if any person or persons
shall, within any fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine, or in any
other place or district of country, under the sole and exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States, commit the crime of wilful
murder, such person or persons, on being thereof convicted,
shall suffer death.
SEC. VI. And be it enacted, That if any person or persons,
having knowledge of the actual commission of the crime of wilful murder, or other felony, upon the high seas, or within any
fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine, or other place or district of
country, under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, shall conceal, and not, as soon as may be, disclose
and make known the same to some one of the Judges, or other

OF THE UNITED STATES.

derstood to be objected, 1. That the civil, or Roman
1820.
State
k.
recognise
not
does
code,
admiralty
the
is
law, which
V.

States, Wiltberger.
persons in civil or military authority under the United

on conviction thereof, such person or persons shall be adjudged
guilty of misprision of felony, and shall be imprisoned not exceeding three years, and fined not exceeding five hundred dol.
lars.
SEC. VII. And be it enacted, That if any person or persons
shall, within any fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine, or other
place or district of country, under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, commit the crime of manslaugh.
ter, and shall be thereof convicted, such person or persons
shall be imprisoned not- exceeding three years, and fined not
exceeding one thousand dollars.
SEC. VIII. And be it enacted, That if any person or persons
shall commit, upon the high seas, or in any river, haven, basin,
or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, murder
or robbery, or any other offence, which, if committed within
the body of a county, would, by the laws of the United States,
be punishable with death; or, if any captain or mariner of any
ship or other vessel, shall piratically and feloniously run away
with such ship or vessel, or any goods or merchandize, to the
value of fifty dollars, or yield up such ship or vessel voluntarily to any pirate ; or if any seaman shall lay violent hands upon

his commander, thereby to hinder and prevent his fighting in
defence of his ship, or goods committed to his trust, or shall
make a revolt in the ship ; every such offender shall be deemed, taken, and adjudged to be, a pirate and felon, and being
thereof convicted, shall suffer death : and the trial of crimes
committed on the high seas, or in any place out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, shall be in the district where the
offender is apprehended, or into which he may first be brought.
SEC. IX. And be it enacted, That if any citizen shall commit any piracy or robbery, aforesaid, or any act of hostility
against the United States, or any citizen thereof, upon the high
seas, under colour of any commission from any foreign prince

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

i2o.
a
U. States

or define the offence of manslaughter." To which
it is answered, that Congress, having declared that

V.

Wiltberger. or State, or on pretence of authority from any person, such
offender shall, notwithstanding the pretence of authority, be
deemed, adjudged, and taken to be, a pirate, felon, and robber, and on being thereof convicted, shall suffer death.
SEc. X. And be it enacted, That every person who shall
either upon the land or seas, knowingly and wittingly aid and
assist, procure, command, counsel or advise, any person or persons to do or commit any murder or robbery, or other piracy
aforesaid, upon the high seas, which shall affect the life of such
person, and such person or persons shall thereupon do or commit any such piracy or robbery, then all and every such person,
so as aforesaid aiding, assisting, procuring, commanding, counselling, or advising the same, either upon the land or the sea,
shall be, and they are hereby declared, deemed, and adjudged.
to be, accessary to such piracies before the fact, and every
such person, being thereof convicted, shall suffer death.
Sxc. XI. And be it enacted, That after any murder, felony,
robbery, or other piracy whatsoever, aforesaid, is or shall be
committed by any pirate or robber, every person who, knowing
that such pirate or robber has done or committed any such
piracy or robbery, shall, on the land or at sea, receive, entertain, or conceal, any such pirate or robber, or receive or take
into his custody any ship, vessel, goods, or chattels, which
have been, by any such pirate or robber, piratically and feloniously taken, shall be, and are hereby declared, deemed and
adjudged, to be accessary to such piracy or robbery, after thL
fact; and on conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned, not exceeding three years, and fined, not exceeding five hundred
dollars.
SEc. XII. And be it enacted, That if any seaman or other person shall commit manslaughter upon the high seas, or confederate, or attempt or endeavour to corrupt any commander, master,
a 1 Bro. Civ. and Adm. Law, 422.

2 Bro. 460.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
any person convicted of manslaughter, shall be punished in the manner provided by the act, the corn- t. States.
V.
mon law may be referred to for a definition of the
mayhem, nor
murder,
robbery,
Neither
offence.a
many other offences, made punishable by the statute
laws of the United States, are defined by those laws.
The distinctions of homicide, as marked out by the
common law, are unknown to the civil Or Roman
law. But when jurisdiction is given of murder committed on the high seas &c. to a Court of Admiralty,
the law defining the crime is to be derived from the
common, and not from the civil law.' It is also objected, 2. That the local jurisdiction of the Chinese
empire over the offence charged by the indictment,
if found by the jury to have been committed within
its territorial limits, necessarily excludes the jurisdiction of the Courts of this country over the offence.

officer or mariner, to yield up or to run away with any ship
or vessel, or with any goods, wares, or merchandize, or to
turn pirate, or to go over to or confederate with pirates, or
in any wise trade with any pirate, knowing him to be such,
or shall furnish such pirate with any ammunition, stores,
or provisions, of any kind; or shall fit out any vessel, knowingly, and with a design, to trade with or supply or correspond
with any pirate or robber upon the seas; or if any persons
shall any ways consult, combine, confederate, or correspond,
with any pirate or robber on the seas, knowing him to be guilty

of any such piracy or robbery; or if any seaman shall confine
the master of any ship or other vessel, or endeavour to make
revolt in such ship; such person or persons, so offending,
and being thereof convicted, shall be imprisoned, not exceeding
three years, and fined, not exceeding one thousand dollars.
a The United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 626.
6 The United States v. M'Gill, 4 Dal!. 426. 429.
VOL. V.

11

6ASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

To this objection, it is answered, that by tie princiUSates ples of universal law, a qualified national jurisdiction
and immunity extends to the ships of the nation,
V.
Wiltberger. public and private, wherever they may be. As to
1820.

pmblic vessels, this immunity is unquestionable.a And
even private vessels, though from the necessity of
the casc, subject to the revenue laws of the country
where they may be, are yet in many respects exempted from the local jurisdiction. Minor crimes, which
do not offend the safety or dignity of the local sovereignty, are usually left to the cognizance of the government to whose subjects the vessel belongs. Nor
does this, in the slightest degree, affect the eminent
domain and sovereignty of the foreign nation over its
harbours and rivers.' But China herself disclaims jurisdiction in such cases, and renvoysthem to the forum
of the offending party.c The offence here1 being
a Vattel, L. 1. c. 19. s. 216. The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116.
Case of Nash, alias Robbins, Bee's Adrn. Rep. 266. Vide ArraNDnx, Note 1.
b 2 Bro. Civ. 4- Jdm. Law, 468. 484. M'Gill's case,
.1 Dall. 4-27. United States v. Ross, 1 Gallis. 627. United
States v. Smith, I Mlason, 147. United States v. Hamilton
1 Mlason, 152.
c Sir George Staunton's Translationof the Laws of China, 36.
523. The following extracts from this work were read at the
argument, and it is thought their insertion here will not be unacceptable to the learned reader.
Offences committed by foreigners.(*) In general all foreigners who come to submit themselves to the government oi
the empire, shall, when guilty of offences, be tried and sentenced
according to the established laws. The particular decisions,
however, of the tribunal Lee-Fan-Yuen,(1) shall be guided

OF THE UNITED STATES.

committed by a citizen of the United States upon
another citizen, on board a merchant vessel of this

1020.
U. States
V.

according to regulations framed for the government of the Wiltberger,
Mongol tribes.
Note (*)-'This section of the code has been expressly quoted
by the provincial government of Canton, and applied to the
case of foreigners residing there and at Macao for the purposes
The laws of China have never, however, been
of trade.
attempted to be enforced against those foreigners, except with
considerable allowances in their favour, although, on the other
band, they are restricted and circumscribed in such a manner,
that a transgression on their part of any specific article of the
laws, can scarcely occur ; at least, not without at the same
time implicating and involving in their guilt some of the natives,
who thus in most cases become the principal victims of offended
justice. The situation of Europeans in China is certainly by
no means so satisfactory on the whole as mightbe desired, or
even as it may "be reasonably expected to become in the progress of time, unless some untoward circumstance should occur
to check the gradual course of improvement. It must be admitted, however, that the extreme contrariety of manners,
habits, and language, renders some such arrangement, as that
now subsisting for the regulation of the intercourse between
the Europeans and the natives, absolutely indispensable, as well
as conducive to the interests of both parties.'
Note (t)-''bis tribunal might be stiled the office or deparEment for foreign affairs, but its chief concern is with the tributary and the subject States of Tartary." p. 36.
" The foregoing being thq substance of the report of the
viceroy to his imperial majesty, we have deliberated thereon,
and have ascertained that, according to the preiminary book
of the penal code, all persons from foreign parts committing.
Qffences, shall undergo trial, and receive sentence according to
the laws of the empire : Moreover, we find it declared in th.
same code, that any person accidentally killing another, shipll.be
allowed to redeem himself from punishment, bT!the payment of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

country, lying in the waters of a foreign country,

which expressly disclaims jurisdiction of the case,
it is dispunishable, unless it he punishable in the
Wiltberger. Courts of this country ;
and it appears at least questionable, whether there isany constitutional power in
Congress to punish it, except in the mode already provided for, as an offence committed on the high seas.
This brings us to the 5d objection, which is, that
the offence was not committed " on the high seas,"
within the true intent and meaning of the act of
April, 1790. c. 36. s. 12. In answer to this objection,
it is insisted, that before the adoption of the present
U. States

V.

a fi'e ; lastly, we find, that on the eighth year of Kien-Lung,
(1'743,) it was ordered, in reply to the address of the viceroy
of Canton, then in office, that thenceforward, in all cases of
offences by contrivance, design, or in affrays happening between foreigners and natives, whereby such foreigners are liable, according to law, to suffer death by being strangled or beheaded, the magistrate of the district shall receive the proofs
and evidence thereof, at the period of the preliminary investigation, and after having fully, and distiictly inquired into the
reality of the circumstances, report the result to the viceroy
and sub-viceroy, who are thereupon strictly to repeat and reIf the determination of the inferior
vise the investigation
Courts, upon the alleged facts, and upon the application of the
laws, is found to have been just and accurate, the magistrate
of the district shall, lastly, receive orders to proceed, in conjunction with the chief of the nation, to take the offender to
execution, according to his sentence.
" In all other instances of offences committed under what the
laws declare to be palliating circumstances, and which are,
therefore, not capitally punishable, the offender shall be sent
away 'to be punished in his own country. February, 108 "
P. 523.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

constitution, the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
1820.
extended every where on tide waters below low wa- U.States
V.
ter mark.o The same extension has been given to
the admiralty jurisdiction under the c;onstitution.b Wiltberger.
The opposite argument is founded on the expression
,highseas," as contradistinguished from that portion of the sea, where the tide ebbs and flows,
but which is enclosed by head lands, or forms parts
of rivers above their mouths. But the celebrated
statutes of Richard II., regulating the admiralty jurisdiction, allow the Admiral to have cognizance of
things done on the sea, " sur le meer," without the
addition of high. The stat. 27 Eliz. uses the expression " main sea." The 28 Hen. VIII. c. 15.,
concerning the trial of crimes committed within the
admiralty jurisdiction, uses the terms, " in and upon
the sea, or in any other haven, creek, river, or place,
where the Admiral hath, or pretends to have, power,
authority, orjurisdiction? :c The act of Congress of
1790. c. 9. uses the terms promiscuously, "high
seas

(s. 8. s. 9.) " the seas," (s. 10.)

"1

the sea,"

(s. 11.) " high seas and seas," (s. 12.) The term
"csea" is water, as contradistinguished from land.
The term " high sea," does not necessarily import
deep sea; although the classical writers frequently
use the correspondent Latin word in that figurative
a See authorities cited, 3 Urheat. 357. Note b. to United
States v. Bevans. De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gallis. 470. Note 47.
b United States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dall. 297. The Sally,
e Cranch, 406. The Betsey and Charlotte, 4 Cranch, 443.
The Samuel, I Wieat. 9. The Octavia, ib.20.
c See The King v. Bruce, cited 3 J1I'icat. 371. Note a.

CASES IN THL SUPREME COURT

sense; as altum tsquor, altissinum flunen, &c.

1820.

It

is a common expletive applied, in both languages, to
sea," " road," " crime," and many other.things.

Wilthcrger.

The contrary acceptation of the term

"

high sea,'

would exclude bays, arms of the sea, coves, belts,
straits, estuaries, great rivers, and lakes. There is
iio other limit to the sea, but that where the tide
ceases to ebb and flow, whether on the sea coast, or
in bays and rivers. Even the English statutes of
Richard II., made to restrict the admiralty jurisdiction, and in derogation of its ancient authority, give
it cognizance of murders, &C. committed on board
great ships in the streams of great rivers below the
first bridges. So the French law gives the admiralty
the same jurisdiction, as to rivers, for which we contenda The case of the United States v. Bevans,'
does not stand in our way, for the point now in question was not determined in that case.
Mr. Srgeant, contra, stated, that the indictment ia
this case, pursuing the words of the act, charges the
offence to have been committed upon the " high
It is of no consequence what may be the exseas."
tent of the power given by the constitution to the
government of the Union. The question is, to what
extent has the power so given been exercised ? It is
not necessary, therefore, to inquire whether this was
an offence within the admiralty jurisdiction. The
only question is, whether it is within the true mean1. tit. 2.
a 1 Valin, Com. sur l'Ordon. l'ii.
art. 5.

b 3 WIq7eat. 336.

De la Cwnrrmratc

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing of the act of Congress.4 The offence in ques1s0.
tion, if committed at all, was not committed upon the U. States
V.
high seas: whether these terms be considered in their
ordinary sense; as used in foreign authorities of the Wiltberger.
law; as employed in acts of Congress; as used in
the act in question; or as expounded by our own
judicial decisions. 1. The national character of the
ship or vessel in which the offience was committed,
makes no difference in this case. A public armed
vessel is a part of the national sovereign force, clothed with the sovereign character, and wherever she
goes entitled to immunity. She is subject only to
the jurisdiction of her sovereign, and is a part of his
territory ;b is exempt from visitation and search, and
governed by such lavws as her sovereign may choose
to give her. Tie immunity she enjoys does not depend upon thc civil or admiralty law ; but, like the
privilege of an ambassador, or the immunity of
troops on their passage, depends upon the law of na-'
lions. Every sovereign may refuse admission, but
having admitted, is bound to respect. Still, it does
not follow, that the Courts of her own country have
jurisdiction on board of her. Be this as it may, a
private ship has no such immunity. On the oceam
she is bound to submit to visitation and search. In
port, she is bound to submit to the local jurisdiction,
and entitled to the benefit of the laws of the place.
Those who are on board of her, incur the obligation
a The United States v. Bevans, 3 W17heat. 336. Sc..
b The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 110" Speech of' Mr. (now
Chief Justice) MAIISUALL, in the case of Na.h alias Robbins,
APPENDIx. Note I.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'J
1820.

U. States

V.-

Wiltberger.

of a temporary allegiance, and are, in all respects
amenable to the laws of the country in which they
are found; to its penal laws especially. The ocean,

the high seas, are a common domain ; and every ship,

private as well as public, is there upon the territory of
her sovereign; and amenable to no laws, but the
laws of her sovereign, and the law of nations. It is
from this principle that every nation derives its jurisdiction over the persons on board its ships: the spot
they occupy in the common domaiu, is its own terri-

tory, and it has a right to give the law to

it.a

2. The

national character of the offender, or of the person
offended, makes no difference. If the crew had all
shipped in England, and been English subjects, they
would have been equally entitled to protection, and
equally amenable to our laws. If, upon the ocean,
or high seas, a foreigner had been murdered, his death
would have been equally avenged by our laws. If a
foreigner on board this ship, had committed an offence, he would equally have been liable. It is not
correct, then, to say, that personal jurisdiction is universal, as to citizens; nor that it does in no case extend to foreigners. 3. In the next place, the extent
or true nature of the constitutional power is wholly
immaterial in this case. That instrument had in
view, 1st. To partition powers between the Union
and the States; 2dly. To distribute powers among
the different branches of the national government.
The judicial power, in its exercise, is subordinate
and auxiliary to the power of Congress. The whole
a I Sir L. Jenkins' Works, 91.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

jurisdiction has never been exercised. But the prin1820.
ciple, in its application to the very case, has been de- ku. States
It
cided in the case of the United States v. Bevans.a no

authority is of
follows, therefore, that the judicial
avail, unless there be a corresponding power in Congress; that as the judicial authority is unavailing
without a legislative act, it is to the act of Congress
alone we must look for the extent of the jurisdiction.
When, therefore, the authority of the judiciary is
declared to extend to all cases of " admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction," it is to be extended only to
such cases as Congress have power to provide for.
The same power might be exercised through the medium of the State Courts, or omitted altogether. It
follows, also, most indubitably, that the powers exercised by Congress, can receive no illustration from
the powers given to the judiciary by the constitution; and we are thus happily relieved from the necessity of exploring the distant speculation of the
ancient jurisdiction of the admiralty. 4. What,
then, is the true meaning of the terms, on the
" high seas," as used in the act of Congress ? In
their ordinary sense, they mean the open ocean,
as distinguished from creeks, rivers, ports, and
other bodies of water, inclosed and infra-territorial.
The flow of the tide cannot be the true test; for
then the sea would flow to the falls of Schuylkill
and Delaware, and would comprehend a vessel
moored at the wharf. If we refer to the authorities

Vo.. V

S Wheat. 336. 38G.
12

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

of the English law, they are clear and unifora.

u. States The common lawyers never at any period denied the

V.

admiralty jurisdiction upon the " high seas." The
civilians claimed a jurisdiction beyond
what was conceded to them by the common lawyers, beyond the
" high scas :" in rivers, bays, &c. Thus, the very
contest, in its origin, admitted that the "' high seas"
were distinguishable from other waters. The sta-

tute 13 Richard 11. confined the admiralty to things
The 15 Richard II. gave
done upon the " sea."
it criminal jurisdiction in homicide and mayhem on
great rivers, &c.' The 27 Eliz. c. 11. is conclusive

of the question.0

Sir Leoline Jenkins makes the

So, also, we have the authodistinction expressly,
rity of Lord Hale in many places ;- and all the authorities agree that the divisum imperium is only upon
the sea coast. The distinction is also perfectly understood and maintained in our own legislation ; and
the act now in question furnishes the clearest recognition of it, as will appear by a comparison of the
8th with the 12th section. In the 8th section, the
distinction is made between the " high seas," and
4'a river, haven, basin, or bay." The latter expressions can never, by any fair rule of construction applied to penal statutes, be transferred from the 8th
to the 12th section. In criminal cases, a strict construction is always to be preferred; and if there be
a 4lnst. 136.

b 4 Inst. 137.

c 4 Inst. 137.

d I Life of Sir L. J. 17.

e Hale, De Jure Jlars, c. 4. 2 East's C. L., 304.
P. C ch.3.

2 Hal(

OF THE UNITED STATES.

doubt, that is of itself conclusive. In Bevan's case,
1820.
the distinction between the high seas and other enclosed parts of the sea, was not denied by the counv.
sel for the United States, and the Court do not even Wiltberger.
mention it as at all doubtful.a But, it is asked, whether the criminal jurisdiction of the admiralty is not
as extensive as the civil ? To which it is answered,
that the criminaljurisdiction depends upon the place
where the offence is committed; the civil, upon
the nature of the subject; and there can, therefore,
be no comparison of their extent.

The Attorney General, in reply, insisted, that
although penal laws are to be construed strictly,
the intention of the legislature must govern in
their construction. .If a case be within the intention and reason, it must be considered as within the
letter, of the statute. This act having been passed
by Congress on the first organization of the government, it must have been their intention to make the
exercise of their power co-extensive with their jurisdiction; and to punish all the crimes enumerated, in
every place within their jurisdiction. The act must,
therefore, be construed so as to engraft the words of
the 8th section, descriptive of the place in which
murder may be committed, on the 12th section, which
describes the place in which manslaughter may be
committed. After expressing themselves fully in
the previous section as to the places in which one of
the crimes intended to be punished by the act must
be committed, it was natural that the legislature
a 3 Wicat. 336.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
U. States

V.

should suppose the language engrafted into a subse-

quent section on a subject of the same class.

Thus,

the 1st section of the act defines the crime of treason, and provides, "that if any person or persons
owing allegiance to the United States of America,
shall levy war," &c. "such person or persons shall
be adjudged guilty of treason," &c. The 2d section defines misprision of treason, and in specifying
the persons who may commit the crime, omits the
words " owing allegiance to the United States," and
uses without limitation or restriction the general
terms "' any person or persons." Yet these general
terms were obviously intended to be restrained by
the words " owing allegiance to tile United States,"
which are used in the preceding section. The crimes
of murder and manslaughter are kindred offences,
and are parts of the same general offence of homicide. Congress must have intended to make the
same provision for their punishment, as to the places
within which they must be committed in order to
give jurisdiction to the Courts of the Union. Thus,
the 3d section of the act describes the places on land
in which murder must be committed in order to give
those Courts jurisdiction of the offence; and the
7th section describes in tile very same terms the
places on land in which manslaughter must be committed in order to give them jurisdiction. Observe
the consequences of a contrary construction as to
murder alone. The 9th section extends the guilt of
the offences enumerated in it to a citizen of the
United States committing them under colour of a
foreign commission. But this section, in describing

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the place where the offence may be committed, omits
the words " in any river, haven, basin, or bay," and
uses the words " high seas" only. It is incredible
that it was the legislative intention to distinguish between the same crime, committed under the pretext
of authority by a foreign. commission, on the high
seas, and on the waters of a foreign State, or of the
United States. So, also, the 10th section provides,
"that every person who shall, either upon the land
or the seas, knowingly and wittingly aid and- assist,
procure, command, counsel, or advise, any person or
persons, to do or commit any murder or robbery, or
other piracy, aforesaid, upon the seas, which shall
affect the life of such person, shall," &c. Here Congress cannot have intended to exempt from punishment those persons who shall be accessaries before
the fact to a murder or robbery committed " in a
river, haven, basin, or bay,"1&c. A -similar argument is applicable to the 11th section. As to the
12th section, beside the offence of manslaughter,
the other offences which it enumerates are all accessorial to those mentioned in the 8th. It is, therefore,
evidently connected with the 8th.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the Court. The indictment in this case is founded on the 12th section of the act, entitled, "1an act
for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States." That section is in these words: "And
be it enacted, that if any seaman, or other person,
shall commit manslaughter on the high seas, or confederate," &c. "1such person or persons so offending,

1820.
U. States

v.
Wiltbirger.

Feb. 18ak.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
LStes

V.

Wiltberger.

and being thereof convicted, shall be imprisoned not
exceeding three years, and fined not exceeding one
thousand dollars."

The jurisdiction of the Court depends on the place

in which the fact was committed. Manslaughter is
not punishable in the Courts of the United States,
according to the words which have been cited, unless
it be committed on the high seas. Is the place described in the special verdict a part of the high seas?
If the words be taken according to the common
understanding of mankind, if they be taken in their
popular and received sense, the " high seas," if not
in all instances confined to the ocean which washes
a coast, can never extend to a river about half a mile
wide, and in the interior of a country. This extended construction of the .words, it has been insisted, is
still farther opposed, by a comparison of the 12th
with the 8th secti6n of the act. In the 8th section,
Congress has shown its attention to the distinction
between the "1 high seas," and " a river, haven,
basin, or bay." The well known rule that this is a
penal statute, and is to be construed strictly, is alsQ
urged upon us.
On the part of the United States, the jurisdiction
of the Court is sustained, not so much on the extension of the words " high seas," as on that construction of the whole act, which would engraft the words
of the 8th section, descriptive of the place in which
murder may be committed, on the 12th section, which
describes the place in which manslaughter may be
committed. This transfer of the words of one section to the other, is, it has been contended. in pursu-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ance of the obvious intent of the legislature ; and in
1820.
support of the authority of the Court so to do, cer- u.States
tain maxims, or rules for the construction of statutes,
V.
have been quoted and relied on. It has been said, Wiltberger.
that although penal laws are to be construed strictly,
the intention of the legislature must govern in their
construction. That if a case be within the intention,
it must be considered as if within the letter of the
statute. So if it be within the reason of the statute.
The rule that penal laws are to be construed strictly, Rues
for t oi.
e
construction
is perhaps not much less old than construction *itself. penal statnt,.
It is founded on the tenderness of the law for the
rights of individuals; and on the plain principle that
the power of punishment is vested in the legislative,
not in the judicial department. It is the legislature,
not the Court, which is to define a crime, and ordain
its punishment.
It is said, that notwithstanding this rule, the intention.of the law maker must govern in the construction of penal, as well as other statutes. This is true.
But this is not a new independent rule which subverts the old. It is a modification of the ancient
maxim, and amounts to this, that though penal laws
are to be construed strictly, they are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention
of the legislature. The maxim is not to be so applied as to narrow the words of the statute to the exclusion of cases which those words, in their ordinary
acceptation, or in that sense in which the legislature
has obviously used them, would comprehend. The
intention of the legislature is to be collected from the
words they employ. Where there is no ambiguity irt

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
182o.
U. States

v.

Wiltberger.

the words, there is no room for construction. The
case must be a strong one indeed, which would justify a Court in departing from the plain meaning of
words, especially in a penal act, in search of an in-

tention which the words themselves did not suggest.
To determine that a case is within the intention of
a statute, its language must authorise us to say so.
It would be dangerous, indeed, to carry the principle,
that a case which is within the reason or mischief of
a statute, is within its provisions, so far as to punish
a crime not enumerated in the statute, because it is
of equal atrocity, or of kindred character, with those
which are enumerated. If this principle has ever
been recognized in expounding criminal law, it has
been in cases of considerable irritation, which it
would be unsafe to consider as precedents forming a
general rule for other cases.
Baving premised these general observations, the
The escription of place
contained in Court will proceed to the examination of the act,
the 8th section
of the act of in order to determine whether the intention to in17110, C.36., is
not
.o incorpo.
rated into the corporate the description of place contained in the
12th section, 8th section, into the 12th, be so apparent as to jusas to give the
It is contended, that
Courts of the tify the Court in so doing.
Unionjuriodicslao,, orn.- throughout the act the description of one section is
mnitted in a fa the full, and is necessarily to be carried into all the other
notiriver,
rein
itre
sections which relate to place, or to crime.
bigh.tes.
The Ist section defines the crime of treason, and
declares, that if any person or persons owing allegiance to the United States of America shall levy
war,) &c. "such person or persons shall be adjudged
guilty of treason," &c. The second section defines
misprision of treasou ; and in the description of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1820.
persons who may commit it, omits the words 11owing
allegiance to the United States," and uses without ". st
V.
limitation, the general terms " any person or perterms
general
these
said,
sons." Yet, it has been
were obviously intended to be limited, and must be
limited, by the words "owing allegiance to the United States," which are used in the preceding section.
It is admitted, that the general terms of the 2d
section must be so limited; but it is not admitted,
that the inference drawn from this circumstance, in
favour of incorporating the words of one section of
this act into another, is a fair one. Treason is a
breach of allegiance, and can be committed by him
only who owes allegiance either perpetual or temporary. The words, therefore, " owing allegiance to
the United States." in the first section, are entirely
surplus words, which do not, in the slightest degree,
affect its sense. The construction would be precisely the same were they omitted. When, therefore,
we give the same construction to the second section,
we do not carry those words into it, but construe it
as it woull be construed independent of the first.
There is, too, in a penal statute, a difference between
restraining general words, and enlarging particular
words.
The crimes of murder and of manslaughter, it
has been truly said, are kindred crimes; and there
is much reason for supposing, that the legislature intended to make the same provision for the jurisdiction of its Courts, as to the place in which either
might be committed. In illustration of this positior,
the 3d and 7th sections of the act have been cited.
VOL. V.

13

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The 3d section describes the places in which murder
on land may be committed, of which the Courts of
the United States may take cognizance; and the
v.
Wiltberger. 7th section describes, in precisely the same terms,
1820.

U..aStates

the places on land, if manslaughter be committed in
whichb, the offender may be prosecuted in the federal
Courts.
It is true, that so far as respects place, the words
of the 3d sectioii concerning murder, are repeated in
the 7th, and applied to manslaughter ; but this circumstance suggests a very different inference from
that which has been drawn from it. When the legislature is about to describe the places in which
manslaughter, cognizable in the Courts of the United States, may be committed, no reference whatsoei,er is made to a prior section respecting murder;
but the description is as full and ample, as if the
prior section had not been in the act. This would
rather justify the opinion, that in proceeding to manslaughter, the legislature did not mean to refer us to
the section on murder for a description of the place
in which the crime might be committed, but did mean
to give us a full description in the section on that
subject.
So, the 6th section, which punishes those who have
knowledge of the commission of murder, or other
felony, describes the places on land in which the murder is to be committed, to constitute the crime, with
the same minuteness which had been before employed in the 3d, and was, afterwards, employed in the
7th section.
In the 8th section, the legislature takes up the sub-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ject of murder, and other felonies, committed on the 1820.
water, and is full in the description of place. "1If any U. States
V.
person or persons, shall commit upon the high seas.2Wiltberger.
or in any river, haven, basin or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, murder," &c.
The 9th section of the act applies to a citizen who
shall commit any of the offences described in the 8th
section, against the United States, or a citizen thereof,
under colour of a commission from any foreign
Prince or State.
It is observable, that this section, in its description
of place, omits the words, ",in any river, haven,
basin, or bay," and uses the words " high seas" only.
It has been argued, and, we admit, with great force,
that in this section the legislature intended to take
from a citizen offending against the United States,
under colour of a commission from a foreign power,
any pretence to protection from that commission;
and it is almost impossible to believe that there could
have been a deliberate intention to distinguish between the same offence, committed under colour of
such commission, on the high seas, and on the waters
of a foreign State, or of the United States, out of
the jurisdiction of any particular State. This would
unquestionably have been the operation of the section, had the words, "on the high seas," been omitted. Yet it would be carrying construction very far
to strike out those words. Their whole effect is to
limit the operation which the sentence would have
without them; and it is making very free with legislative language, to declare them'totally useless, when
they are sensible, and are calculated to have a de-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

U. States
WTiltb--erger.

cided influence on the meaning of the clause. That
case is not directly before us, and we may perhaps
be relieved from ever deciding it. For the present
purpose, it will be sufficient to
say, that the determination of that question in the affirmative, would not,
we think, be conclusive with respect to that now
under consideration. The 9th section refers express..
ly, so far at least as respects piracy or robbery, to
the 8th; and its whole language shows that its sole
object is to render a citizen who offends against the
United States or their citizens, under colour of a
foreign commission, punishable in the same degree as
if no such commission existed. The clearness with
which this intent is manifested by the language of
the whole section, might perhaps justify a latitude of
construction which would not be allowable where
the intent is less clearly manifested ; where we are
to be guided, not so much by the words in which the
provision is made, as by our opinion of the reasonableness of making it.
But here, too, it cannot escape notice, that the legislature has not referred for a description of the place to
the preceding section, but has inserted a description,
and by that insertion has created the whole difficulty
of -the case.
The 10th section declares the punishment of accessories before the fact. It enacts, " that every person who shall either upon the land or the seas, knowingly and wittingly, aid and assist, procure, command, counsel, or advise any person or persons to do
or commit any murder or robbery, or other piracy,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

aforesaid, upon the seas, which shall affect the life
of such persons, shall," &c.

is20.
U-.State

Upon this section, also, as on the preceding, it has
Wiltberger.
been argued, that the legislature cannot have intended
to exclude from punishment those who shallbe accessories before the fact to a murder or robbery committed
" in a river, haven, basin, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any State ;" and now, as then, the argument
has great weight. But it is again to be observed,
that the legislature has not referred for a description
of place to any previous parts of the law, but has
inserted a description, and by so doing, has materially varied the obvious sense of the section. " Every
person who shall, either upon the land or the'-seas,
knowingly and wittingly aid," &c. The probability is, that the legislature designed to punish all persons amenable to their laws, who should, in any
place, aid and assist, procure, command, counsel, or
advise, any person or persons to commit any murder
or piracy punishable under the act. And such would
have been the operation of the sentence, had the
words, " upon the land or the seas" been omitted.
But the legislature has chosen- to describe the place
,where the accessorial offence is to be committed, and
has not referred to a description contained in any other
part of the act. The words are, "1upon the land or
the seas."

The Court cannot reject this description.

If we might supply the&words " river, haven," &c.
because they are stated in the 8th section, must we
supply "fort, arsenal," &c. which are used in the
3d section, describing the place in which murder
may be committed on land ? In doing so, we should

102

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

probably defeat the will of the legislature. Yet if
1820.
kwe
depart from the description of place given in
U. States
the section, in which Congress has obviously intendV.
Wiltberger. ed to describe it, for the purpose of annexing to the
word " seas," the words "river, haven, basin, or
bay," found in the 8th section, there would be at least
some appearance of reason in the argument, which
would require us to annex also to the word " land,"
the words "fort, arsenal," &c. found in the 3d
section.
After describingthe place in which the "aid, assistance, procurement, command, counsel, or advice,11
must be given, in order to give to the Courts of the
United States jurisdiction over the offence, the legislature proceeds to describe the crime so to be commanded or procured, and the place in which such crime must
be committed. The crime is, "any murder or robbery, or other piracy, aforesaid." The place is ", upon
the seas."
In this section, as in the preceding, had the words
"upon the seas" been omitted, the construction
would have been that which, according to the argument on the part of the United States, it ought now
to be. But these words are sensible and are material. They constitute the description of place which
the legislature has chosen to give us ; and Courts
cannot safely vary that description, without some
sure guide to direct their way.
The observations made on this section apply so
precisely to the 1 th, that they need not be repeated.
The legal construction of those sections is doubtful, and the Court is not now, and may perhaps ne-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

103

1820.
ver be, required to make it. It is sufficient to say,
that should it even be such as the Attorney General U. states
V.
that
contends it ought to be, the reasons in favour of 12th
Wltberger.
the
to
construction do not apply conclusively
section. They both contain a direct reference to the
8th section. They describe accessorial offences,
which from their nature are more intimately connected with the principal offence, than distinct crimes are
with each other.
The 12th section takes up the crime of manslaughter, which is not mentioned in the 8th ; and,
without any reference to the 8th, describes the place
in which it must be committed, in order to give jurisdiction to the Courts of the United States. That
place is " ' on the high seas." There is nothing in
this section which can authorize the Court to take
jurisdiction of manslaughter committed elsewhere.
To prove the connection between this section and
the 8th, the attention of the Court has been directed
to the other offences it recapitulates, which are said to
be accessorial to those enumerated in the 8th. They
are admitted to be accessorial ; but the Court draws a
different inference from this circumstance. Manslaughter is an independent crime distinct from murder, and the legislature annexes to the offence, a description of the place in which it must be committed in
order to give the Court jurisdiction. The same section
then proceeds to enumerate certain other crimes which
are accessorial in their nature, without any description of places. To manslaughter, the principal
crime, the right to punish which depends on the
place in which it is committed, Congress has annexed a description of place. To the other crimes enu-

104

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
U. States

V.-

merated in the same section, which are accessorial in
their nature, and some of which at least may be committed any where, Congress has annexed no description of place. The conclusion
seems irresistible,

that Congress has not in this section inserted the
limitation of place inadvertently ; and the distinction which the legislature has taken, must of course
be respected by the Court.
It is the object of the law, among other things, to pu-.
nish murder and manslaughter, on land, in places
within the jurisdiction of the United States ; and also
to punish murder and manslaughter, committed on the
ocean. The two crimes of murder and manslaughter,
when committed on land, are described in two distinct
sections, as two distinct offences; and the descriptiork
of place in the one section, is complete in itself, and
makes no reference to the description of place in the
other. The crimes of murder and manslaughter,
when committed on water, are also described as two
distinct offences, in two sections, each containing a
description of the place in which the offence may be
committed, without any reference in the one section
to the other. That section which affixes the punishment to manslaughter on the seas, proceeds to describe other offences which are accessorial in their
nature, without any limitation of place. In every
section throughout the act, describing a crime, the
right to punish which depends on place, and in some
instances where the right of punishment does not depend upon place, the legislature has, without any reference to a preceding section, described the place in
which it must be committed, in order to bring the
offender within the act. This characteristic feature

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the law now to be expounded, deserves great consideration, and affords a powerful reason for restrain-

182o.
U. States.

ing the Court from annexing to the description con- W

description con-.
tamined in one section, parts 'of the
tained in another. From this review of the examination made of the act at the bar, it appears that the
argument chiefly relied on, to prove that the words of
one section descriptive of the place ought to be incorporated into another, is the extreme improbability
that Congress could have intended to make those
differences with respect to place, which their words
import. We admit that it is extremely improbable.
But probability is not a guide which a court, in construing a penal statute, can safely take. We can
conceive no reason why other crimes which are not
comprehended in this act, should not be punished.
But Congress has not made them punishable, and
this Court cannot enlarge the statute.
After giving the subject an atfentive consideration,
we are unanimously of opinion, that the offence
charged in this indictment is not cognizable in the
Courts of the United States; which opinion is to be
certified to the Circuit Court for the district of Pennsylvania.

CERTIFICATE. This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court
for the district of Pennsylvania, and on the question on which the Judges of that Court were divided,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, the .Court is of opinion, that manslaughter committed in a river such as the river Tigris is described
VOL. V.

14

.

7101

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
N "

U. States

V.

to be, is not punishable by the laws of the United
States and that the Circuit Court of the United

States, for the district of Pennsylvania, has no juris-

Wiltberger. diction over the offence.

All which is ordered to be

certified to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of Pennsylvania."
a The Constitution of the United States declares, that the
judicial power of the Union shall extend, (among other things,)
-1 to all cases of admiralty and maritimejurisdiction;" and this
Court has determined, that the power thus granted belongs exclusively to the Courts of the United States. (Martin v. Hunter, ante, vol. 1. p. 333. 337.) It is not the purpose of this
note to consider what cases- of a civil nature are properly included within the terms, " cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction." As to the criminal jurisdiction of the admiralty,
there is no doubt that it is defined by local limits ; and in order
to ascertain these: it becomes necessary to inquire into the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction of England, from which ours
was derived, as that was from the maritime States on the continent of Europe.
Both in England and the other countries of Europe, the
Court of Admiralty is a branch which has sprung from that ancient and venerable stock, the office of admiral. The etymology of the word serves to indicate the origin of the office, and
the time when it was introduced, at least under that name, into
Europe. ThA word admiral or ammiral, is doubtless derived
from the Arabic word emir or amira, signifying a general officer
or commander in chief, dominum v-el prcefectum. (Du Cange.
Glossary. Verbo .Admiralius. In the time of the crusades, by
means of which so many oriental usages were brought into the
west of Europe, it was introduced into France as the title of
a commander in chief, either of land or sea forces. Accordingly, we find that the office, with that title, was unknown until
the third, race of French kings, under Charles IV., about
the end of the thirteenth century, and it appeared in England
about the same period in the reign of Edward I. After the
term thus came to be exclusively applied to the commander in

OF THE UNITED STATES.
chief of naval forces in France, the station was filled with

107
I8o.

'-v"
several illustrious characters, and in the scale of civil and military dignities ranked immediately after the office of constable. U. States
V.
The person who filled this high station had jurisdiction by him- Wiltberger.

self or his deputies, of all crimes and offences committed on
the sea, its port, harbours, and shores. (ValiS. CoM. 3ur l'Or2. art. 10. De la Competence.)
don. 1. 1. tit.
In England, the office subsisted with the same title of high
admiral, until the reign of Charles II., when it was filled by his
brother, the Duke of York, (afterwards James II.) who being
excluded from office as a Catholic by the test act in 1673, it was.
executed by commissioners, with the same power and authority
as belonged to the Lord High Admiral : and since the accession of the house of Hanover, the office has also been vested
in commissioners, who are styled the Lords Commissioners of
the Admiralty. But the king is said-still to hold, for certain purposes, the office of Lord High Admiral, though in a capacity

distinguishable from his regal character; a distinction of practical importance in the law of prize, but immaterial to the present purpose. The judge of the High Court of Admiralty ilk
England formerly held his place by patent from the Lord High
Admiral, but since that office has only existed in contemplation of
law, he holds it by direct commission from the crown. The ancient criminal jurisdiction of the Court was modified by the statute
of the 28th of Henry VIII. c. 15. which enacted-, that.offences
upon the seas, and in havens, rivers, &c. should be tried by.
the admiral or his deputy, and-three or four more, among .whom
two common law judges are. usually appointed, the'judge-of.the
High Court of Admiralty presiding. (2 B 'o. Ci,. and Adm. Law,
held before the delegate of the458.) IaScotlan&, the Court isHigh Admiral-, who may also name other-inferior local deputies, and who is declared to, be the king's Justice General upon
the seas, or fresh water within flood and mark, and in- all harbours and creeks.

(2 Bro. Ci-. and M1dm. Law. 30.).

This remarkable conformity between the origin, history, an&nature of the Courts of Admiralty in France and Great Britain,
renders it highly probable that their jurisdiction, both civil and?
criminal, however it may have been shifted frona. its ancien,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

foundations, was originally the same; and this supposition deadditional strength from the manner in which the history'
of the two countries is blended together during the middle

Srives

U. States
.

Wiltberger. ages, and from the circumstance of both having derived their
maritime institutions from the shores of the Mediterranean.
There appears to be no question, that the admiralty jurisdiction of England originally extended to all crimes and offences
committed upon the sea, and in all ports, rivers, and arms of
the sea, as far as the tide ebbs and flows. This is established
by the ancient inquisitions, the records of which still remain
in the black book of the admiralty, and by the articles given in
charge at the admiralty sessions, as early as the reign of Edward III. (Clerk's Praxis. Rougton's articles, passim. Exton,
c. 11, 12, 13. Selden, de Dom. Afar. 1. 2. c. 24. p. 209.) But
Lord Coke, in 4 Inst. 135. et seq. after admitting, that the admiralty had jurisdiction of all things done upon the sea, endeavours to establish the doctrine, that the sea, ex vi termini,
did not include any navigable waters within the body of any
county of the realm; and for proof of this, he mainly relies
on certain authorities in Fitzherbert'sAbridgment, (Xvowry, 192.
Corone, 699.) which, when carefully considered, will not support his position. The hostility of Lord Coke to the admiralty, and indeed to every other jurisdiction rivalling the common law Courts, is well known; and Mr. Justice Buller has observed, that " with respect to what is said relative to the admiralty jurisdiction in 4 Inst. 135. that part of Lord Coke's work
has been always received with great caution, and frequently
contradicted. He seems to have entertained not only a jealousy of, but an enmity against, that jurisdiction." All the authorities cited by Lord Coke, will be satisfactorily disposed of
upon the supposition (which Lord Hale asserts to be the fact,)
that before the thirty-fifth year of Edward III. the common
law exercised, even upon the narrow seas, as well as in ports
and havens within the ebb and flow of the tide, a concurrent jurisdiction with the admiralty. (2 Hale's, P. C. 13. etseg.) Neither
does the case itself in Fitz. Atbr. Corone, 399. 8 Edw. 2. warrant Lord Coke's assertion. Stanton, J. is there reported to
bave said, that it is not an arm of the sea where a man can see

OF THE UNITED STATES.
what is done on the one side of the water and the other; and
1820.
that the coroner, in such cases, shall exercise his jurisdiction
there. This dictum, taken literally, cannot be considered as U. States
V.
law, for in the year books (22 Assisarum, 93.) it is expressly Wiltberger.
held, that every water which flows and reflows, is called an
arm of the sea, so far as it flows. "1Que chescun ewe, queflow et
reflow, estappelle bras de mer cy tantaunt come el flowe." The

same doctrine is quoted and confirmed by Lord Hale, who
states, that the sea is either that which lies within the body of
a county, or without; and that an arm or branch of the sea
which lies within the fauces terre, where a man may reasona'bly discern between shore and shore, is, or at least may be,
within the body of a county. (Hale, De J.ure Mar. c. 4. p. 10.)
So that there is the strongest reason to question Lord Coke's
authority in this respect, and to adhere to the evidence furnished by the records of the admiralty, of its ancient jurisdiction in
ports and havens within the ebb and flow of the tide.
How far this ancient jurisdiction has been altered by statutes,
is another question. The statute 13 Richard II.c. 5. enacts,
" that the admirals, and their deputies, shall not meddle henceforth of any thing done within the realm, but only of a thing.
done upon the sea, according as it hath been duly used in the
-time of the noble King Edward, (III.) grandfather of our Lord
the King that now is." The statute 15 Richard II. c. 3. enacts,
"that of all manner of contracts, pleas and quereles, and of all
other things done, or arising within the bodies of counties, as
well by land as by water, and also of wreck of the sea, the
Admiral's Court shall have no manner of cognizance, power,
nor jurisdiction ; but all manner of contracts, pleas and quereles, and all other things rising within the bodies of counties,
as well by land as by water, as afore, and also wreck of the
sea, shall be tried, determined, discussed, and remedied, by the
laws of the land, and not before, or by the admiral, nor his
lieutenants, in any wise. Nevertheless, of the death of a man,
and of a maihem done in great ships, being hovering on the
main stream of great rivers, only, beneath the bridges of the
same rivers nigh to the sea, and in none other places of the
same rivers, the admiral shall have cognizance; and also, to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
arrest ships in the great flotes for the great voyages of the
King, and of the realm ; saving always to the King all manner
U. States of forfeitures and profits thereof coming and be shall also
v.
n
Wihberger. have jurisdiction upon the said flotes during the said voyages,
only saving always to the lords, cities, and boroughs, their liberties and franchises." The true limit of the admiralty jurisdiction under these statutes was long a subject of angry contention between the civilians and the common lawyers. But it
is admitted on all sides, that on the main or high seas, (which, as
Blackstone states, begin at the low water mark, (I Bl. Comm.
110.) the admiralty has jurisdiction exclusive of the common
law; and that, between high water mark and low water mark,
where the sea ebbs and flows, (which is technically the shore of
the sea, or littus maris,) (Hale de Jure Jar.c. 4. p. 12.) the
common law and'the admiralty have a divided empire (divisum
imperium) or alternate jurisdiction, one upon the water when
it is full sea, the other upon the land, when it is an ebb. (I Bl.
Comm. 11 0. Constable's case, 5 Co. Rep. 106, 107. Barber v.
Whanton, 2 Lord Ragm. 1452. 2 East's P. C. 803. 4 Bl.
Comm. 268.) Upon the sea coast, therefore, it is incontestible,
that the body of every county bordering on such coast, is
bounded by the shore of the sea, and at no time extends below
low water mark.
But what constitutes the boundary of counties bordering orr
arms of the sea, and navigable rivers, is a question concerning
which great differences of opinion have been expressed. It
has been strenuously insisted by the judges of the admiralty,
that, notwithstanding the statutes of Richard, the admiralty still
continues to possess jurisdiction in all ports, havens, and rivers,
where the sea ebbs and flows, below the first bridges. (1 Sir L.
Jenlins' Life, xcii. Exton, b. 2. c. 3. et seq. Zouch, 92.) And Sir
Henry Spelman adopts the same opinion. (Spelm. Reliq. 226.)
The ground of this opinion is, that the same rule exists
at the common law in respect to the bounds of counties
on navigable waters and arms of the sea as is applied by the
same law to the sea coast, viz. that they are limited by the ebb
and flow of the tide ; and that the statute of Richard was in1820.
-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
lenaed no further to restrict the admiralty, than as to crimes
committed above the first bridges. (1 Sir L. Jenkins' Life, Mcii.

1820.

U. States
Exton, c. 10. to 20. Zouch, 92.) And it cannot be denied, that
V.
the agreement of the twelve judges in 1632, (cited at large, Wiltberger.
ante, vol. III. p. 365. Note a.) strongly countenances this
pretension. In Rex v. Soleguard (Aindrew's Rep. 231.) also,
Sir Edmund Isham cited an opinion delivered as recently as
1713, on a reference to all the judges, in which ten of them
(against Ward, C. B. and Gould, J.) held, " that the admiralty
bath a jurisdiction in all great navigable riversfrom the bridges
to the sea." And in that case, the Court did not deny the jurisdiction, but founded their judgment upon a supposed concurrent jurisdiction of the common law. On the other hand, Lord
Coke, principally on the authority of the two cases before cited,
(4 Inst. 140. Fitz. br. Avorwry, 192. and Corone, 399.) main-

tains that the bodies of counties comprehend all navigable waters
where persons can see from one side to the other; or rather,
as other authorities, with more accuracy, state it, the point,
where a man standing on one side of the land, may see what is
done on the other side. (Hawkins' P. C. c. 9. s. 14. 2 East,
P. C. 804.) Lord Hale appears to speak with great doubt and
hesitation on this subject, merely asserting that " an arm or
branch of the sea, where a man may reasonablydiscern between
shore and shore, is, or at least may be, within the body of a
county." And it may fairly be inferred as well from this cautious expression, as from his commentary on the statute of the
28th Hen. VIIL.-c. 15. (2 Hale's P. C. 16, 17.) that Lord Hale
was not satisfied with Lord Coke's exposition of the common law
boundary of counties. The whole question, however, became
in a great degree unimportant in England after the enactment
of the statute of the 28 Hen. VIII. c. 15. which gave to the
High Commission Court, (of which the admiral or his deputy
is the presiding judge,) cognizance of " all treasons, felonies,
robberies, murders and confederacies committed in or upon the
sea, or in any other haven, river, creek, or place, where the admiral or admirals have, or pretend to have, jurisdiction." In the

exposition of this statute, Lord Hale says, " this seems to me
to extend to great rivers where the sea flows and reflows below

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1 12
1820.
*

U. States

the first bridges, and also, in creeks of the sea at full water,
where the sea flows and reflows, and upon high water upon
the shore, though these possibly be within the body of the

V.

Wiltberger.

country, for there at least by the statute of 15 Rich. II. they
[the admirals] have a jurisdiction ; and thus accordingly it has
been held at all times even when the Judges of the common
law have been named, and sat in the commission; but we are
not to extend the words (pretend to have) 'to such a pretence as
is without any right at all ; and, therefore, although the admiral pretend to have jurisdiction upon the shore, when the tide
is reflowed, yet he bath no cognizance of a felony committed
there." (2 Hale's P. C. 16, 17.) This construction of the statute, in opposition to Lord Coke's, was solemnly adopted in a
very recent case by the twelve judges; and sentence of death
accordingly passed .,pon the prisoner upon a conviction under
the statute. (Rex v. Bruce, 2 Leach's C. C 1093. 4th Ed.
cited at large, ante, vol. III. p. 371. Note a.) Sir Leoline Jenkins, in his charge given at the Admiralty Sessions at the Old
Bailey, speaking of the commission given to the Judges under
the statute, says: " But the commission itself explains the
word (pretend) in a more particular manner in directing the idquiry to be of things done, not only upon the sea, and in havens, creeks, and rivers, as in the statute, but also in all places
whatsoever within the flowing of the water, to the full sea
mark; and in all great rivers from those bridges downwards
that are next the sea: which words, being in the commission, are the best comment upon the statute, it having so often
passed the great seal in these last seven score years, under the
view and approbation of so many Lords Chancellors and Keepers, and of so many Attorney Generals, men of the greatest
eminency in the laws of the land, so that the words of the statute, and the commission, being taken together, do not only ascertain the power of this Court to hear and determine offences
done in all, or any of those places, but do also declare all, and
every of the places themselves, to be within the jurisdiction of
the admiralty; for otherwise, the jurisdiction of the commissioners since the statute, would be of larger extent, and in more
places than the jurisdiction of the Admiral was before the sta-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

11s

tute, which *ift is clear was not intended by the law makers."
1820.
(ISir L. Jenkins, xci.) But where such havens, creeks, and riU. States
vers, &c. are within the body of a county, it seems now geneV.
rally agreed, that the Courts of Common Law have a concurrent Wiltberger..
jurisdiction over the same offences. (2 Hale's P. C. 15. 16.
Rex v. Bruce, 2 Leach's C. C. 1093, 4th ed.)
Supposing, however, Lord Coke's view of this matter to be
correct, the limits of a ccunty .vvill
still be confined to places in
rivers, creeks, and arms of the sea, which are so narrow as
that a person on one side can reasonably discern and attest
upon oath any thing done on the other side ; for the reason assigned for this rule of limitation is, that the pais may there
come and take inquisition of the facts. (4 Inst. 140. 2 East's
P. C. 804.) And, in England, the Admiralty bath by the express provisions of the statute 15 Rich. 11. c. 3. cognizance
of every description of homicide and mayhem, " happening in
great ships being and hovering in the main stream of great
rivers below the bridges of the same rivers, which, (as Blackstone observes,) are then a sort of port or haven ; such (to
use his own illustration,) as are the ports of London and Gloucester, though they lie at a great distance from the sea, (4 Bl.
Comm. 268.) and though they he within the body of a county. (2 Hale's P. C. 16.)
But it is certainly very questionable how far the statutes of
Richard I. are to be considered as restrictive of the grant of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction contained in the constitution
of the United States. These statutes were never designed to
apply to the colonies, for at that time the colonies did not exist;
and in point of fact, the admiralty jurisdiction in the colonies
has always depended entirely upon-the royal commission, and
upon acts of parliament expressly extending to them. Hence,
the colonial Vice Admiralty Courts have constantly exercised
jurisdiction in many cases, such as revenue cases, of which the
High Court of Admiralty in England has not recently taken
jurisdiction. I say, recently, because it seems that formerly
the Admiralty in England did take jurisdiction of the breaches
of the navigation laws, and other laws of trade; either by the
express provisions of those statutes, or in virtue of its original
VOL. V.

15

114

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"

1820.
maritime jurisdiction. (I Sir L. Jenkins' Life, lxxii. xcv. et seq.
U. States -2 Sir L. J. p. 745. 746.) But it appears that the colonial Vice
V.
Admiralty Courts have uniformly exercised a jurisdiction over
Wiltberger. revenue cases upon their original inherent powers by virtue of
their commissions, independent of any statute. (See a case cited
in the Fabius, 6 Rob. 245,) Beside the restrictions contained in
the statutes of 13 and 15 Rich. 11. as to criminal jurisdiction, are
purely arbitrary, and 'cannot be considered as declaratory of
the pre-existing law. What reason is there why the Admiralty should have jurisdiction of homicide and mayhem in
'rivers, ports, and creeks of the sea, and not of other crimes in
the same places ? Such a limitation has no foundation in the
ancient constitution of the Court, and never at any time existed
independent of the statute. It is also a well established rule in
the construction of English statutes, that they are not to be considered as extending to the colonies, unless included by express
words, or by inevitable implication; (1 Bl. Comm. 107, 108.)
and it cannot be pretended, that the colonies are within the
purview or the word,. of the statutes of the 13 and 15 Richard
II. Why, then, should they be considered as extending to the
colonies, which did not then exist, any more than to Scotland,
which was not then united to the crown. but in which country
the Admiralty still retains its ancient jurisdiction undiminished ?
The commissions issued by the crown to the Vice Admiralty
Courts in the colonies, were entirely inconsistent with the limitations imposed upon the Admiralty in England. One of the
latest, which is probably copied from the others, is that issued
to the Governor of New Hampshire, in 6 Geo. 1Il. It empowers
him" to take cognizance of, and proceed in, all causes, civil
and maritime, and in complaints, contracts, ofences or suspected offences, crimes, pleas, debts, exchanges, accounts, charter
parties, agreements, suits, trespasses, inquiries, extortions, and
demands, and all business, civil and maritime, whatsoever, &c.
throughout all and every the sea shores, public streams, ports,
fresh waters, rivers, creeks, and arms, as well of the sea, as of
the rivers and coasts, whatsoever, of the province, &c. and
territories dependent thereon, and maritimeports, whatsoever
of the same, and thereto adjacent;" and in this commission

OF THE UNITED STATES.

115

those places are referred to as within " our maritime jurisdic1820.
ion." (De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gallis. 470. Note 47.) It seems
highly probable that the expression " maritime jurisdiction," in U. States
V.
the constitution, was borrowed from the language of those corn- Wiltberger.
missions, and was introduced ex abundanti cautela, and superadded to the term " admiralty," in order to obviate any doubt as
to the full extent of the authority meant to be conferred.
I Indeed it has already been, in effect, decided by this Court,
that the statutes of Richard are not in-force in the United States,
as limitations of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction granted
in the constitution. By the judiciary act of 1789, c. 20. s. 9.
seizures under laws of impost, navigation, and trade, on waters
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burthen,
as well as seizures on the high seas, are expressly included in
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the District Courts.
It is evident that Congress could not give the District Courts,
acting as Courts of Admiralty, cognizance of any causes which
were not " of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," within'
the true meaning of the constitution ; because, it would deprive the parties of their constitutional right of trial by
jury. The objection was, therefore, very early taken, that
seizures in ports, and in such navigable waters, as above stated,
were not causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, because
those places were not, according to the common law interpretation in England of the statutes of Richard II. within the jurisdiction of the admiralty. But this Court has repeatedly overruled the objection, (La Vengeance, 3 Dall. 297. The Sally,
2 Cranch, 406. The Betsey and Charlotte, 4 Cranch, 443.
The Samuel, Xlnte, vol. I. p. 9. The Octavia, lb. p. 20.) and
thereby established the doctrine that the constitutional admiraltyjurisdiction includes ports, arms, and creeks of the sea, as
far as the tide ebbs and flows.
The learned reader will observe, that this position is not disturbed by the decision of this Court in the case in the text,
(The U. S. v. Wiltberger,) or by that of the United States v.
Bevans; (Ante, vol. II. p. 336. 387.) the only question in
those cases being, not what was the constitutional authority of
Congress, but how farit had been exercised; not what was the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
IV'Clung

V. C'
Ross.

extent of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction granted in the
but how far it had been conferred by Congress
upon any particular Court of the Union.

Sconstitution,

(LOCAL LAW.)

M'CLUNG V.

Ross.

Under the laws of Tennessee, where lands are sold by a summary pro.
ceeding for the payment of taxes, it is essential to the validity of
the sale, and of the deed made thereon, that every fact necessary
to Xive the Court jurisdiction should appear upon the record.
Under the statute of limitations of Tennessee, the running of the statute can only be stopped by actual suit, if the party claiming under
it has peaceable possession for seven years. But such a possession
cannot exist if the party having the better right takes actual possession in pursuance of his right.
Onetenant'in common may oust his co-tenant, and hold in severalty;
buta silent possession, unaccompanied with any act amounting to
an ouster, or giving notice to the co-tenant that his possession is adverse, cannot be construed into an adverse possession.

Feb. loLh.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Williams" for the
plaintiff in error, and by the Attorney- General, and
Mr. F. Jones,' for the defendant.
a He cited 2 Tenn. Rep. 44. 218. 186. 365. 358. 242. 1 Tenn.
Rep. 362. 467. 545. 1 Hayw. Rep. 24. 62. 65. 95. 2 Hayw.
Rep. 80. 3 Mass. Rep. 379. 2 Tidd's Pract. 936. 2 Binney,
223. 329. 1 Binney, 40. 4 Dall. 226. 1 Wash. Rep. 313.
9 Johns. Rep. 58. 179.
b They cited 1 Tenn. Rep. 119. 126. 436. 2 Tenn. Rep. 40t
5 Hayw. Rep. 294. 1 Hayw. 176. 4 Wheat. 77.

