CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

420

were citizens of the United States, or whether the
was a citizen of the United States, or that
the offence was committed not on board any vessel,
but on the high seas.
4. That the burthen of proof of the national character of the vessel, on board of which the offence
was committed, was, under the circumstances stated
in the charge of the Court, on the prisoners."

1620.
Owings

'deceased

"
Speed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL

LAW)

OWINGS V. SPEED

et al.

The present Constitution of the United States did not commence its
operatin until the first WVedncsday in March, 1789, and the piovi.ion in the Constitution, that " no Stqte shall make any law impairing the obligatien of contracts," does not extend to a State law
enacted before that day, and operating upon rights of property
veAted before that time.
The books of a corporation, established for public purposes, are evidence of its acts and proceedings.

arc,~ 13th.

cause was argued by Mr. B. Hardin, for
the defendants, no counsel appearing for the plaintiff.

,

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered tlhe
opinion of the Court. This was an ejectment
brought by the plaintiff in the Circuit Court of
the United States, for the District of Kentucky,
to recover a lot of ground lying in Bardstown.

.J1arch1

THIS

a Fide APPENDIX, .,Vote IV.

UP THE UNITED STATES.

This town was laid off in 1780, on a tract of land

1tzo.

consisting of 1000 acres, for which, in 1785, a patent
to
was issued by the Commonwealth of Virginia
of Virlegislature
the
1788,
In
Bard and Owings.
ginia passed an act, vesting 100 acres, part of this
tract, in trustees, to be laid off in lots, some of them
to be given to settlers, and others to be sold ftr the
The cause depends,
benefit of the proprietors.
mainly, on the validity of this act. It is contended
to be a violation of that part of the Constitution of
the United States, which forbids a State to pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts.
Much reason is furnished by the record for presuming the consent of the proprietors to this law ;
but the Circuit Court has decided the question independently of this consent, and that decision is now
to be reviewed.
Before we determine on the construction of the
Constitution in relation to a question of this description, it is necessary to inquire whether the provisions
of that instrument apply to any acts of the State
legislatures which were of the date with that which
it is now proposed to consider.
This act was passed in the session of 1788. Did
the Constitution of the United States then operate
upon it ?
In September, 1787, after completing the great
work in which they had been engaged, the Convention resolved that the Constitution should be laid before the Congress of the United States, to be submitted by that body to Conventions of the several
States, to be convened by their respective legislatures;

oingS.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.122
1820.
"'
owings

V.

Speed.

and expressed the opinion, that as soon as it should
be ratified by the Conventions of nine States, Congress should fix a day on which eleptors should be
appointed by the States, a day on which the electors
should assemble to vote for President and Vice President, "1and the time and place for commencing proceedings under this Constitution."
The Conventions of nine States having adopted
the Constitution, Congress, in September or October, 17883, passed a resolution in conformity with the
opinions expressed by the Convention, and appointed
the first Wednesday in March of the ensuing year
as the day, and the then seat of Congress as the
place, " for commencing proceedings under the Constitution."
Both Governments could not be understood to exist at the same time. The new Government did not
commence until the old Government expired. It is
apparent that the Government did not commence on
the Constitution being ratified by the ninth State; for
these ratifications were to be reported to Congress,
whose 'Continuing existence was recognised by the
Convention, and who were requested to continue to
exercise their powers for the purpose of bringing the
new government into operation. In fact, Congress
did continue to act as a government until it dissolved
on the first of November, by the successive disappearance of its members. It existed potenjalLy until
the 2d of March, the day preceding that on which
the members of the new Congress were directed to
assemble.
The resolution of the Convention might originally

OF THE UNITED STATES.

have suggested a doubt, whether the Government
could be in operation for every purpose before the
choice of a President; but this doubt has been long
would
solved, and were it otherwise, its discussion
be useless, since it is apparent that its operation did
not commence before the first Wednesday in March,
1789, before which time Virginia had passed the act
which is alleged to violate the Consitution.
In to:e trial of the cause, the defendant produced
a witness to prove that the lot for which the suit was
instituted, was a part of the 100 acres vested in trustees by the act of assembly. To this testimony-the
plaintiff objected, because the witness stated, that he
had sold a lot in Bardstown, with warranty, and
was in possession of another. He added, that no
suit had been brought for the said lot, and that he
was not interested in this suit. The Court admitted
the witness, and to this opinion also a bill of exceptions was taken.
It is so apparent that the witness bad no interest
in the suit in which he was examined, and it is so
well settled that only an interest in that suit could
affect his competency, as to make it unnecessary to
say more, than that the Court committed no error in
permitting his testimony to go to the jury.
There was also an exception taken to the opinion
of the Court in allowing tli' book of the board of
trustees, in which their proceedings were recorded,
and other records belonging to the corporation, to be
given in evidence.
The book was proved by the present clerk, who
also proved the handwriting of the first clerk, and of

1820.
O

V.
peed.

424,
1820.
Conn

v.

Penn.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the President, who were dead.

The Trustees were

established by the legislature for public purposes.
The books of such a body are the best evidence of
their acts, and ought to be admitted whenever those
acts are to be proved. There was no error in the
opinion admitting them.
There is the less necessity in this case for entering
more fully into this question, because the record contains other evidence of the facts, which the testimony, to which exceptions were taken, was adduced
to prove.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

(Ci-AtCERy.)

CoNN et al. v. PF,.x.
In appeals to this court, from the Circuit Courts, in Chancery cases,
the parol testimony which is heard at the trial, in the Court below,
ought to appear in the record.
A final decree in equity, or an interlocutory decree, which, in a great
measure, decides the merits of the cause, cannot be pronounced until
all the parties to the bill, and all the parties in interest, are befora
the Court.

March t4th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Pinleney, and Mr.
Jones, for the appellants, and by the Attorney-General, and Mr. Sergeant, for the respondent.

