OF THE UNITED 9TATES..
1820.
Wallace

(PRACTICE.)

Aneeo.
Anderson,

WALLACE V. ANDERSON.
An information for a quo wcarranlo, to try the title to an office, cannot
be maintained but at the instance of the Government; and the consent of parties will not give jurisdiction in such h case.

EtRROR to the Circuit Court of Ohio.
This was an information for a quo warranto,
brought to try the title of the defendant to the office
of principal surveyor of the Virginia military bounty
lands north of the river Ohio, and between the rivers
Scioto and Little Miami. The defendant had been
appointed to the office by the State of Virginia, and
continued to exercise its duties until the year 1818,
during all which time his official acts were recog
nised by the United States. In that year he was
removed by the Governdr and Council of Virginia,
and the plaintiff appointed in his place. The writ
was brought, by consent of parties, to try the title
to the office, waiving all questions of form, and of
jurisdiction. Judgment was given in the Court below for the defendant, and the cause was brought by
writ of error to this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Hardin, for the
plaintiff, and by the Attorney- General and Mr. Scott,
for the defendant. But as the cause was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction, it is deemed unnecessary to
insert the argument.

MrarcL Qk.

UASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Mr. Chief Justice AIARSHALL delivered the opinioni
of the Court, that a writ of quo warrantocould not be
Wallace
V.
maintained except at the instance of the Government,
Anderson.
.Marcs 8th. and as this writ was issued by a private individual,
without the authority of the Government, it could
not be sustained, whatever might be the right of the
prosecutor, or of the person claiming to exercise the
office in question. The information must, therefore,
be dismissed.
Judgment reversed.
1820.

This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for
the district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion,
that no writ of quo warranto can be maintained, but
at the instance of the Government ; and as this is a
writ issued by an individual without the authority of
Government, it is the opinion of this Court, that the
same cannot be sustained, whatever may be the right
of that individual, or of the person who claims to
exercise the office, to try the title to which, the writ
is brought. It is, therefore, the opinion of this Court,
that the judgment of the Circuit Court ought-to be
reversed, and the cause remanded to that Court,
with directions to dismiss the information because it is not filed at the instance of the Unitedi
States.
JUDGMENT.

