OF THE UNITED STATES.

for the District of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion :
• :1st. That Aury's commission does not exempt the
prisoner from the charge of piracy.
2d. That although the fraud practised on the
Dane may not in itself support the charge of piracy,
the whole transaction, as stated in the indictment and
in the facts inserted in the record, does amount to
piracy.
3d. That the prisoner is punishable under the provisions of the 8th section of thb act of 1790.
4th. That the act of the 30th of April, 1790, does
extend to all persons on board all vessels which throw
off their national character by cruizing piratically
and committing piracy on other vessels.

The UNITED

STATES v. SMITH.

The act of the 3d of March, ]819, c. 76. s.5. referring to the law of
nations for a definition of the crime of piracy, is a constitutional exercise of the power of Congress to define and punish that crime.
The crime of piracy is defined by the law of nations with reasonable
certainty.
Robbery, or forcible depredation, upon the sea, anirofurandi,is pira.
cy by the law of nations, and by the act of Congress.

THIS was an indictment for piracy against the
prisoner Thomas Smith, before the Circuit Court of
Vor.. V.

20

163

i820.
. States
U9.

V.

Smith.

-1\SE:_ IN 'I'LE sUPI-M.

CUUILT

18-7U.

Virginiai, on the act of Congress, of the 3d o'
U3.. StatesA -larch,- 1819, c. 76."
1.
The jury found a special verdict as follows: "We,
Smith.
of the jury, find, that the prisoner, Thomas Snith, ill
the month of March, 1819, and others, were part of the
ciew of a private armed vessel, called the Creollo,
(commissioned by the government of Buenos Ayres, a
colony then at war with Spain,) and lying in the port
of Mar'garitta that inthe month of March, 1819, the
said prisoner and others of the crew mutinied, confined their officer, left the vessel, and in the said port
of Margaritta, seized by violence a vessel called the
Irresistible, a private armed vessel, lying in that port,
commissioned by the government of Artigas, who
was also at war with Spain ; that the said prisoner
and others, having so possessed themselves of the
said vessel, the Irresistible, appointed their officers,
proceeded to sea on a cruize, without any documents
or commission whatever; and while on that cruize.
in the month of April, 1819, on the high seas, committed the offence charged in the indictment, by the
plunder and robbery of the Spanish vessel therein mentioned. If the plunder and robbery aforesaid be piracy
under the act of the Congress of the United States,
entitled, I An act to protect the commerce of the
a Which provides, (s. 5.) " That if any person or persons
whatsoerer, shall, on the high seas, commit the crime of pira-.
cy, as defined by the law of nations, and such offender or ofl'enders shall afterwards be brought into, or found in, the United
States, every such offender or offenders shall, upon conviction
thereof, before the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District into which he or they may be brought, or in which l.;
,rthey shall be found, be punished with death."

OF THE UNITED5 STATES.

United States, and punish the crime of piracy,' then
we find the said prisoner guilty ; if the plunder and
robbery, above stated, be not piracy under the said
act of Congress then we find him, not guilty.",
The Circuit Court divided on the question, whether this be piracy as defined by the law of nations,
so as to be punishable under the act of Congress, of
the 3d of March, 1819, and thereupon the question
was certified to this Court for its decision.
The Attorney General, for the United States, contended, that Congress, by referring to the law of
nations for a definition of the crime of piracy, had
duly exercised the power given them by the constitution," to define and punish piracies and felonies
committed on the high seas, and offences against
the law of nations." By this reference they adopt
the definition of the offence given by the writers on
public law. All these writers concur in defining it
to be, depredation on the seas, without the authority
of a commission, or beyond its authority." If there
be any defect of precision or slight uncertainty in
the definitions of the crime of piracy given by different writers on the law of nations, it is no more than
what is to be found in common law writers on the
crime of murder, Yet we are constantly referredt
aGrotdusde.J.B. ac. P. 1. 2. c. 15. s.5. Pqgf'dorf,i. 2. c. 2.
s. 10. Iattel, Droit des Gens, 1. 3. c. 15. s. 226. Dynk. Q. .7.
Pub. 1. 1. Duponceau's Trans. p. 127. Mlarten's 17ist. of Pri.
vateers, p. 2. Home's Transl. Molloy, b. 1. c. 4. s. 5. 2 Bra.
Cir. and qidm. Law, 461. 2 Azuni, i5l..7nints. Transl. and the.
authoritiesthere cited.

ms2o.
U. states
s tl,

Feb. 21st.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
U. States
Smitb.

by the legislature to the common law for the definition of murder and other felonies which are mentioned in statutory provisions. But there is no defeet in the definition of piracy by the authorities to
which we are referred by this act. The definitiongiven by them is certain, consistent, and unanimous;
and pirates being hostes humani generis, are punishable in the tribunals of all nations.
All nations
are engaged in a league against them for the mutual
defence and safety of all. This renders it the more
fit and proper that there should be a uniform rule as
to the definition of the crime, which can only be
drawn from the law of nations, as the only code universally known and recognized by the people of all
countries.
Mr. Webster, contra, argued, that the special verdict did not contain sufficient facts to enable the
Court to pronounce the prisoner guilty of the offence
charged. The facts found, do not necessarily infer
his guilt, but, on the contrary, are consistent with his
innocence; inasmuch as it appears that he was one
of the crew of a vessel belonging to Buenos Ayres,
although not acting at tie time when the supposed
offence was committed under the commission of that
colony, but acting as a non-commissioned captor, and
as such, seizing the property of Spanish subjects on
the high seas. But even supposing the offence to be
well found by the special verdict, it cannot be punished under this act, because the law is not a constitutional exercise of the power of Congress to define
the crime of piracy. Congress is bound to define it,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in terms, and is not at liberty to leave it to be ascertained by judicial interpretation. To refer to the law
of nations for a definition of the crime, is not a deby the
finition ; for the very thing to be ascertained
definition, is the law of nations on the subject. The
constitution evidently presupposes that this crime,
and other offences c6mmitted on the high seas, were
not defined with sufficient precision by the law of nations, or any other law, to form a rule of conduct; or it
would merely have given Congress the power of punishing these offences, without also imposing upon it
the duty of defining them. The writers on public
law do not define the crime of piracy with precision
and certainty.. It was this very defect which rendered it necessary that Congress should define, in terms,
before it proceeded to exercise the power of punishing the offence. Congress must define it as the constitution has defined treason, not by referring to the
law of nations in one case, or to the common law in
the other, but by giving a distinct, intelligible explanation of the nature of the offence in the act itself.

Mr. Justice SToRy delivered the opinion of the
court. The act of Congress upon which this indictment'is founded provides, "that if any person or persons whatsoever, shall, upon the high seas, commit
the crime of piracy, as defined by the law of nations,
and such offender or offenders shall be brought into,.
or found in the United States, every such offender
or offenders shall, upon conviction thereof, &c. be
,punished with death."

157
1a20.
U. States

V.
Smith.

Feb.25t.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

Sa
U. States
V.

nith.

The fir&t point made at the bar is, whether this
enactment be a constitutional exercise of the authority delegated to Congress upon the sulject
of piracies. The constitution declares, that Congress shall have power "to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and offences against the law of nations." The argument
which has been urged in behalf of the prisoner is,
that Congress is bound to dcfinc, in terms, the offence
of piracy, and is not at liberty to leave it to be asceriained by judicial interpretation. If the argument
be well founded, it seems admitted by the counsel
that it equally applies to the 8th section of the act
of Congress of 1790, ch. 9. which declares, that
robbery and murder committed on the high seas
shall be deemed piracy; and yet, notwithstanding a
series of contested adjudications on this section, no
doubt has hitherto been breathed of its conformity to
the constitution.
In our judgment, the construction contended for
proceeds upon too narrow a view of the language of
the constitution. The power given to Congress is
not merely "to define and punish piracies ;" if it were,
the words "to define," would seem almost superfluous, since the power to punish piracies would be held
to include the power of ascertaining and fixing the
definition of the crime. And it has been very justly
observed, in a celebrated commentary, that the defiuition of piracies might have been left without inconvenience to the law of nations, though a legislative definition of them is to be found in rno-t jnii

OF THE UNITED STATES.
M20.
cipal codes.a But the power is also given "to
define and punish felonies on the high seas, and of- "*Sae
.
fences against the law of nations." The term "fel o - smith.
nies," has been supposed in the same work, not to
have a very exact and determinate meaning in relation to offences at the common law committed within the body of a county. However this may be, in
relation to offences on the high seas, it is necessarily
somewhat indeterminate, since the term is not used
in the criminal jurisprudence of the admiralty in the
technical sense of the common law." Offences, too,
against the law of nations, cannot, with any accuracy, be said to be completely ascertained and defined
in any public code recognised by the common consent of nations. In respect, therefore, as well to felonies on the high seas as to offences against the
law of nations, there is a peculiar fitness in giving
the power to define as well as to punish; and there
is not the slightest reason to doubt that this consideration had very great weight in producing the phraseology in question.
But supposing Congress were bound in all the' Theccrimeof
=.tnn'ny
eases included in the clause under consideration to defined
by
in
Congress,
rewhich
nothing
is
there
still
offence,
define the
,
for
stricts it to a mere logical enumeration in detail of
defnition of
all the facts constituting the offence. Congress may thatcrime,
as well define by using a term of a known and determinate meaning, as by an express enumeration of all
the particulars included in that term. That is cer-

42. p. 276.
a The Federalist, .ro.
b See 3 Inst. 112. Rawk. P. C. Ch. 37.

Aloore, 576.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1s-0.
'

t.. State.s

v.

sinith,

tain which is by necessary reference made certain.
When the act of 1790 declares, that any person who
shall commit the crime of robbery, or murder, on
the high seas, shall be deemed a pirate, the crime is
not less clearly ascertained than it would be by using
the definitions of these terms as they are found in
our treatises of the common law. In fact, by such
a reference, the definitions are necessarily included,
as much as if they stood in the text of the act. It
respect to murder, where " malice aforethought" is
of the essence of the offence, even if the common law
definition were quoted in express terms, we should
still be driven to deny that the definition was perfect,
since the meaning of "malice aforethought" would
remain to be gathered from the common law. There
would then be no end to our difficulties, or our definitions, for each would involve some terms which
might still require some new explanation. Such a
construction of the constitution is, therefore, wholly
inadmissible. To define piracies, in the sense of the
constitution, is merely to enumerate the crimes
which shall constitute piracy; and this may be done
either by a reference to crimes having a technical
name, and determinate extent, or by enumerating
the acts in detail, upon which the punishment is inflicted.

Definiton of

racy by the

wfnatons,
id the act o
ongreEs.

It is next to be considered, whether the crime of
piracy is defined by the law of nations with reasonable certainty. What the law of nations on this subjcct is, may be ascertained by consulting the works
of jurists, writing professedly on public law; or by
the general usage and practice of nations; or by ju-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
dicial decisions recognising and enforcing that law.
nations,
of
There is scarcely a writer on the law
OUU. States
V.
who does not allude to piracy as a crime of a settled
Smith.
the
be
may
whatever
and
nature;
and determinate
diversity of definitions, in other respects, all writers
concur, in holding, that robbery, or forcible depredations upon the sea, animofurandi,is piracy. The
same doctrine is held by all the great writers on maritime law, in terms that admit of no reasonable
doubt.a The common law, too, recognises and punishes piracy as an offence, not against its own municipal code, but as an offence against the law of nations,
(which is part of the common law,) as an offence
against the universal law of society, a pirate being
deemed an enemy of the human race. Indeed,
until the statute of 28th of Henry VIII. ch. 15.
piracy was punishable in England only in the admiralty as a civil law offence; and that statute, in
changing the jurisdiction, has been universally admitted not to have changed the nature of the offence.'
Sir Charles Hedges, in his charge at the Admiralty
sessions, in the case of Rex v. Dawson, (5 State
Trials,) declared in emphatic terms, that "piracy is

a Santerna, (lib. 4. note 50.) for instance, says, "Inter piratam et latronem, non sit alia differentia, nisi quia pirata depredator est in mar et potest dici fur et latro mars, quia latrocinium
et furtum sicut fit ln terra, sic fit in mar." And Emerigon,
(I Emerig. Assur. ch. 12. s. 29. p. 523.) "La piraterie est un
brigandage sur mer. Le Brigandage, sur terre est appelld vol
on rapine." So Strarcha "Piratae sunt latrones maritimi.P
b Hawk. P. C. ch. 37. s. T.

3 Inst. 112.

VOL. V

e1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

only a sea term for robbery, piracy being a robbery
U. States committed within the jurisdiction of the admiralty."
V.
Sir Leoline Jenkins, too, on a like occasion, declared
that " a robbery, when committed
upon the sea, is
what we call piracy ;" and he cited the civil law
writers, in proof. And it is manifest from the language of Sir William Blackstone,a in his comments
on piracy, that he considered the common law definition as distinguishable in no essential respect
from that of the law of nations. So that, whether
we advert to writers on the common law, or the maritime law, or the law of nations, we shall find that
they universally treat of piracy as an offence against
the law of nations, and that its true definition by that
law is robbery upon the sea. And the general practice of all nations in punishing all persons, whether
natives or foreigners, who have committed this offence against any persons whatsoever, with whom
they are in amity, is a conclusive proof that the
offence is supposed to depend, not upon the particular provisions of any municipal code, but upon the
law of nations, both for its definition and punishment. We have, therefore, no hesitation in declaring,
that piracy, by the law of nations, is robbery upon
the sea, and that it is sufficiently and constitutionally defined by the fifth section of the act of 1819.
The special
Another point has been made in this case, which
,erdict in this
:ase
contains
is,
that the special verdict does not contain sufficient
lufficient facts
poan
which to facts upon which the Court can pronounce that the
1820.

)ronounce the
)risoner guilty

if piracy.

a 4 B!. Comm. 73.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

prisoner is guilty of piracy.

We are of a different

1820.

opinion. The special verdict finds that the prisoner '. U.Statea"
V.
is guilty of the plunder and robbery charged in the

indictment; and finds certain additional facts from
which itis most manifest that he and his associates were,

at the time of committing the offence, freebooters upon
the sea, not under the acknowledged authority, or
deriving protection from the flag or commission of
.ny government. If, under such circumstances, the
offence. 'be not piracy, it is difficult to conceive any
which would more completely fit the definition.
It is to be certified to the Circuit Court, that upon
the facts stated, the case is piracy, as defined by the
law of nations, so as to be punishable under the act
of Congress of the 3d of March; 1819.'
a To show that piracy is defined by the law of nations, the
following citations are believed to be sufficient:
* Grotius (ib. 3. c. 3. s. 1.) says, "Supra dicere incepimus justam bellum apud probos auctores dici saepe, non ex causa
uade oritur, neque ut alias ex rerum gestarum magnitudine, sed
obpeculiares quosdamjuris effectus. quale autem sit hoc bellur optime intelligitur ex hostium definitione apud Romanos
jurisconsultos: Hostes sunt, qui nobis, aut quibus nos publice beltrn decernimus; cteteri LATRONES aut PREDONES aunt, ait Pom16. 1. 118.) nec aliter Ulpianus, (Dig.
ponius (Dig. Lib. 60. tit.
1. 24.) hostes sunt, quibus bellum publicepopulus
lib. 49.
b.
Romanus decrevit, vel'ipsi populo Romano ; cieteri LATRUNCUL!
Vel FPRDONES appellantur. Et ideo., qui ( latronibus captus est
necessarium est.
servus latronum no 'est, nec postliminium illi,
Ab hostibus cditem captus; puta a "Gernaniset Parthis et serzus est hostium, et postliminio statur pristinurn recuperat. Et
Paulus, (Dig. lib. 49. tit. 15. 1. 19. s.2.) A piratis aut latronibus capti liberi permanent. Accedat illud Vpiani; in civilibus
dissenionibus quamm' smpe per eas respubtica iedatur, non ta-

South.

164'
I8 Ci.
U. States

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

Ir. Justice LiVIINGSToN dissented.

In a case af-

fecting life, no apology can be necessary for expres-

V.

Smith.

men in exitium reipublicwecontcnditur. qui in alterutraspartcsdiscedent, vice hostium non sunt eorum, inter quos jura captivitatum
anut postliminiorumnfuerint; et ideo captos, et venundatos, posteaque manumissos placuit supervacuo repetere a principe ingenuitatcm, quam nulla captivitate amiserant. (Dig. lib. 49. tit. 15.
1. 321. s. 2.")
Grotius adds, (s. 2.) " Illud tantum notandum, sub exemplo
populi Romani quemvis intelligi, qui in civitate summum imperium habeat."
Again, he says, (s. 2.) " Non autem statim respublica aut
civitas esse desinit, si quid admittat injustum, etiam communiter ; nec coetus PIRATARUMi aut LATRONU/I civitas est, etiamsi
forte aqualitatem quandam inter se servent, sine qua nullus
coetus posset consistere. Nam hi criminis causa sociantur ;.
illi
etsi interdum delicto non vacantjuris tamen fruendi causa
sociati sunt, et exterisjus reddunt, si non per omnia secundum
jus naturw, quod multos apud populos exparte quasi obliteratum
alibi ostendimus, certe secundum pacta cur quibus que inita,
aut secundum mores."
Again, be says, (s. 2.) ,,A latronibus captos capientium non
.ficri, supra dicentem audivimus Ulpianum. Idem captos a Germanos ait libertatem amittere. Atqui apud Germanos latrocinia,
quae extra civitatis cujusque fines fiebant, nullam habebant infamiam, quw verba sunt Casaris, etc. Idem alibi Cattos nobilem Germanize populum latrocinia agitasse dicit. Apud eundem
Garamantes latrociniis facunda gens ; sed gens tamen. Illyrici
sine discrimine mars proedas agere soliti ; de iis tamen triumphus fuit ; Potnpcio de piratis non fuit. Tantum discrimen est
inter populum quantutnvis sceleratum et inter eos, qui, cum popuIus non sint, sceleris causa coiunt."
Again, he says, (lib. 3. c. 9. s. 16.) 1' Eae vexo res qum intra presidia perductm nondum sunt, quanquam ab hostibus occupata, ideo postliminii non egent, quia dominum nondum mutarunt, ex gentium jure. Et qua pirate aut latrones nobis eripuerunt non opus habent postliminis, ut Ulpianus et Javolenus

OF THE UNITED STATES.

165

sing my dissent from the opinion which has just been 182o.
U. States
delivered.
V.
responderunt ; quiajusgentium illis non concessitut jus domini
mutare possint, &c. Itaque res ab illis captm ubicunque reperiunter vindicari possunt, nisi quod ex naturali jure alibi
censuimus ei qui suo sumtu possessionem rei adeptus est tantum
esse reddendum, quantum dominus ipse ad rem recuperandam
libenter impensurus fuerat."
And (id. s. 17.) " Potest tamen lege civili aliud constitui;
sicuti lege Hispanica naves a piratis captm eorum fiunt, qui eas
eripiunt piratis; neque enim iniquum est, ut privata res pub.
licm utilitati cedat, presertim in tanta recuperandi difficultate.
Sed lex tails non obstabit exteris, quo minus res suas vindicent."
Again ; he says, (lib. 2. c. 17. s. e0.) " Ex neglecta tenuntur reges ac magistratus, qui ad inbibendalatrocinia etpiraticam
non adhibent ea quae possunt ae debent remedia; quo nomine
damnati olim ab Amphictionibus Scyrii. Quae potestatem predarum in mars ex haste agendarum per codicillos plurimis
dedissent, et eorum nonnulli res amicorum rapuissent, desertaque patriae mar vagarentur ac ne revocati quidem redirent,
an rectores eo nomine tenerentur, nut quod malorum hominum
usiessent opera, aut quod cautionen non exigissent. Dixi eos in
nihil amplius teneri, quam ut noxios, si reperiri possent, punirent, ant dederent; praetereain bona raptorumjusreddicurarent."
Again ; he says, (Id. c. 18. s. 2, 3.) "Piratae et latrones qui
civitatem non faciunt, jure gentium niti non possunt, &c. Sed interdum tales qui sunt jus legationis nanciscuntur fide data, ut
olim fugitivi in saltu Pyrenaeo."
Again; (lib. 3. c. 13. s. 15.) " Repudiandus ergo Cicero
(De Offic. lib. 3. cap. 29.) cum nit perjurium nullum esse predonibus pactum pro capite pretium non adservatur, nec si juratum quidem sit; quiapirata non sit ex perduellium numero
desinitus, sed communis hostis omnium, eum quo nec fides esse
debeat, nec jus jurandum commune, &c. Atque sicut injure
gentium constituto differe hostem a pirata verum est, et a nobis
infra ostendetur; ita hic ea differentia locum habere non potest,

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

The only question of any importance in this case

U. States is, whether the act of the 3d of March, 1819, be a
V..
Smith.
ubi, etsi personae jus deficiat cum Deo negotium
est ; qua de
causa juramentum voti nomine nuncupatur. Neque id quod
sumit Cicero verum est, nullum esse curn praedonejuris societatem. Nam depositum ex ipso gentium jure reddendum latroni,
si dominus non apparet recte Tryphonino responsum est."
These passages abundantly show the opinion of Grotius, that
piracy by the law of nations is the same thing as piracy by the
civil law; and though he no where defines the crime, in precise terms, yet there seems to' be no doubt as to what he understood to be comprehended in that crime. Piratae, latrones,
pr~tdones, are used to denote the same class of offenders ; the
first term being generally applied to robbers or plunderers on
the sea, and the others to robbers or plunderers on land.
The terms are, indeed, convertible in many instances in the
civil law. Thus, in the title, De Lege Rhodia de Jactu, (Dig.
lib. 14. tit. 2. s. 3.) it is said, " Si navis a piratis redempta sit,
Servius, Osilius, Labeo, omnes conferre debere aiunt. Quod
vero praedones abstulerint, cur perdere cujus fuerit, nec conferendum ei qui suas merces redimerit."
Bynkershoek, (Quest. Jur. Pub. lib. c. 17.) treating on the
subject of piracy, says, " interest scire qui piratae ac latrones
sunt, nam ab his capta dominium non mutant neque adeo postliminio egent. Sic docet ratio ; sic auctoritas juris in 1. 19. s.
2. 1. 24. and 1. 27. de Capt. et Postlim. rev. (Dig. lib. 49. tit.
15.) et sic ex pactis quarandam gentium supra probavi. Non
est igitur ut addam auctoritates Grotii de Jure B. et. P. 1. 3. c.
9. s. 16. .llberici Gentilis de jure belli lib. I. c. 4. Zoucheii
de Jurefeciali, p. 2. s. 8. qu. 15., aliorumque pluriurn in eandem sententiam. Qui autem nullius principis auctoritate sive.
mari sive terra, RAPIUNT, PIRATARU-I PRAEDONUMe.UE vocabulo
intelliguntur."
Azuni (Part 2. c. 5. s. 3 ) says, " A pirate is one who roves
the zea in an armed vessel without any commission or passport
from any prince or sovereign state, solely on his own authority:

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
constitutional exercise of the power delegated to
"
States
u.
piracies
Congress - of " defining and punishing
V.

and for the purpose of seizing by force, and appropriating to
himself without discrimination, every vessel he may meet. For
this reason pirates have always been compared to robbers. The
only difference between them is, that the sea is the theatre of
action for the one, and the land for the other." (s. 11.) "Thus,
as pirates are the enemies of the human race, piracy is justlyregarded as a crime against the universal laws of society; and is
every where punished with death. As they form no national
body, as they have no right to arm, nor make war, and on account of their indiscriminate plunder of all vessels are cbnsidered only as public robbers, every nation has a right' to pursue, and exterminate .them, without any declaration of war.
For these reasons it is lawful to arrest them, in order that they
may undergo the punishment merited by their crimes." (s. 12.)
-'Pirates having no right to make conquests, cannot, therefore'
acquire any lawful property in what they take; for the law of
nations does not authorize them to deprive the true owner of
h1iproperty, who always retains the right of reclaiming it
wherever it may be found. Thus, by the principles of common
law, as well as the law of nature, at whatever period, or in
whatever manner, things taken by a pirate may be recovered,
they return again to their former owners, who lose none of
their rights by such unjust usurpation." (See .Gzuni, part.2. c.
5.art. 3. p. 351. 361. .Mr. Johnson'stranslation.)

Lord Bacon, in his dialogue De Bello &acro says,' " Indubitatum semper fuit, helium contra piratasjuste geri posse per nationem quamcumque, licet ab iisminimg infestatam et lesam,

&c. &c. Vera enim causa hujus rei haec est, quod piratcecommunes humani generis hostes sint ; quos idcirco omnibus na-

tionihus persequi incumbit, non tam propter metus proprios
quam respectutfwderisinier homines sociales. Sicut enim qum-

dam sunt fbadera inscriptis et in tractatus redacta contra hostes
particulares inita; ita naturalis et tacita qonfeederatio inter

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

The act declares, that any person who shall commit

u. States
V.
Smith..

on the high seas the crime of piracy as defined by the
omnes hnmines intercedit contra communes
societatis humanm
hostes." (10 Bac. Works, 313, 314. edit. 1803.)
Martens, in his Essay on Privateers, Captures and Recaptures, (c. 1. s. 1.) says, " Larmateur differe du Pirate, (1.)
Le premier est muni d'une commission on db. lettres de marque
du souverain, dont le pirate est destitud. (2.) L'armateur suppose le cas d'une guerre, (ou du moius celui do. represailles,)
le pirate pille au sein de la paix comme an milieu de la
guerre. (3.) L'armateur s'oblige d'observer les ordonnances et
les instructions qui lui ont &4 donn6es, et de n'attaquer qu'en
consequence de celles ci de l'ennemi, et ceux des vaisseux neutres qui font un commerce illicite, le pirate pille indistinctement les vaisseaux de toutes les nations, sans observer meme
les loix de la guerre."
Rutherforth (Inst. b. 2. c.9. s. 9. p. 481.) speaking 'with
reference to the law of nations, says, " All wars of a nation
against its external enemies are not public wars. To make a
war a public one, both the contending parties must be public
persons ; that is, it must be a war of one nation against another,
&c. Where a nation makes war upon pirates or other robbers,
though these are external enemies, the war will be a mixed
one ; it is public on one side, because a nation or public person is one of the parties ; but it is private on the other side,
because the parties on this side are private persons, who act
together occasionally, and are not united into a civil sociely.
A band of robbers or a company of pirates may in fact be united
to one another by coinpact, &c. But they are still, by the law
of nature, only a number of unconnected individuals ; and consequently, in the view of the law of nations they are not considered as a collective body or public person. For the compact by which they unite themselves is void, because the matter of it is unlawful, &c. &c. The common benefit which a
band of robbers or a company of pirates propose to themselves
consists in doing harm to the rest of mankind."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

law of nations, shall he punished with death. The
special power here given to define piracy, can be at-

1820.

"

U. States
V.

Woodeson, (Led. 34. vol. 2. 422.) treating on captures at sea,
after stating that 'the law of nations is part of the laws of England,
and that captures at sea may happen either by pirates, or by way
of reprisal, or as prize of war, says, "Piracy, accoraing'tothe
law of nations, is incurredby depredations on or near the sea,
without authorityfrom any prince or State." He then quotes the
opinion of Sir Leoline Jenkins with approbation, that it is piracy,
not only when a man robs without any commission at all, but
when, having a commission, he despoils those with whom he is

not warranted tolfight or meddle, such as are de legantia vel amicitia of the prince or state which hath given him his commission. He then adds : "But according to the judgments of our domestic tribunals, a bare assault without taking or pillaging something away does not constitute the crime, though Molloy pretenls,that by the law of nations it is otherwise. Yet it does not
seem necessary that any person should be on board the pillaged

vessel." " If these violations of property be perpetrated by
any national authority, they are the commencement of a public
war; if without that sanction, they are acts of piracy." He then
proceeds to state several cases which had arisen in the Admiralty of England, and sums up his remarks as follow: ""The
foregoing particulars are the more deserving of consideration,
because it seems agreed that when a piratical taking is ascertained, it becomes a clear and indisputable consequence that

there is no transmutation of property. No right to the spoil
vests in the piratical captor; no right is derivable from them
to any recaptors in prejudice of the original owners.. These
piraticalseizures being wholly unauthorized, and highly criminal by the lam of nations, there is no pretence for devesting the
dominion of the former proprietor. This principle, therefore,
'a piratis et latronibus capta dominium non mutant,' is the re.ceived opinion of ancient civilians and more modern writers, on
general jurisprudence. The same doctrine was maintained in
our Courts of Common Law long antecedent to the great cultivation and improveme.nts made in the science of the law of naVol.. V.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

170

182o. tributed to no other cause, than to the uncertainty
UStes which it was known existed on this subject in the
V.

mt.

tions.

And he remars in a note, (p. 427. note n.) " I have

looked into the indictment against Luke Ryan, tried at the Admiralty Sessions, March, 1782, for piracy, and who is alleged to
have had a Dutch commission. He was indicted notfor piracj
generally by the law of nations, but for that, being a natural born
subject, he piratically, &c. against the form of the statute."
From the whole scope of Mr. Woodeson's observations on the
subject of piracy, it is very clear that he considered piracy, as
punishable by the law of the admiralty, to be no other than pi..
racy by the law of nations. The definition orpiracy, and Mr.
Woodeson's comments are cited with approbation by Mr. Gwillim in his late edition of Bacon's Abridgment. (5 Bac. .Abr.
310. edit. 1807. London.)
Burlamaqui (Part. 2. c. 7. s. 41.) says : "Lastly, as to the
wars of robbers and pirates, if they do not produce the
effects above-mentioned, (transmutation of property on capture,)
nor give to those pirates a right of appropriating what they
have taken, it is because they are robbers and enemies of mankind,
and, consequently, persons whose acts of violence are manifestly urjust, which authorizes all nations to treat them as enemies."
Thus far, the authorities cited are such as profess to treat'of
piracy in terms according to the law of nations, the notion of
which was manifestly derived from the civil law, " on which,"
as Sir William Scott observes, (The Maria, 1 Rob. 340.) "great
part of the law of nations is founded." Indeed, in the law of
England, it is treated altogether as a civil law offence, and referred to that law for its definition and punishment. Piracies
and depredations at sea, are capital offences by the civil law.
(5 Bac. Abr. Piracy, 311. Edit. ubi supra, 3 Inst. 112. Hawk.
P. C. c. 37. 2 East, P. C. 796. 4 Bl. Comm. 72.) The commentaries of the common law writers on the subject of piracy
will be more fully considered hereafter.
Let us now advert to the definitions of the civil law anti maritime writers.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

law of nations, and which it must have been the in-

182o.

tention of the framers of the constitution to remove,

U. States

#

In the Novels (JNov. 134. tit. 17. c. 13.) it is declared, "Pro
furto autem nolumus omnino quodlibet membrum abscindi, aut
mori; sed aliter eum castigari. Fures autem vocamus qui
occulte et sine armis hujusmodi delinquunt.. Eos vero, qui violenter aggrediunturaut cum armis ant sine armis in domibus ant
itineribus aut IN WARS poenis eos legalibus subdi jubemus."
Calvinus, in his Lexicon .uridicum, says: " Pirataedicuntur

praedatores marini; sic dicti vel a pirata, qui prius maria infestavit, vel a Graeco vrsg.%, id est, transeo, quod conspecta
insula in illam transirent, jam praedaturi. Hine piratica ars est,
quam exercent." In the French Code des Prises, (Edition of
.M. Dufriche Foulaines, Paris, 1804, tom. 1. p. 6.) the editor

says : " Le pirate est celui qui parcourt les mers avee une
batiment arm8 sans commission on patente d'aucue etat, dans
la vue exclusive de s'approprier tons les navires par laforce.
La piraterie est un assassinat; tout puissance doitfaire arreter

ejuger des pareils brigands, et en purger la terre." Emerigon
(Assur. tom. 1. c. 12. s. 28. p. 623.) says: " Les Pirates sont
ceux qui courent le mers sans commission d'aucun Prince ni
Etat souverain pour deprederles vaisseaux qu'ils rencontrent."
1Les Ennemis sont ceux, qui aut6risds par un prince, on etat
souverain font la guerre dans ]a forme dtablie par le droit des
gens; au lieu que les Pirates sont de simples particuliers
qui depredent le premier navire qu'ils recontrent." "Leas
hostilit6s se commettent de nation &nation; au lieu que la piraterie est un brigandage qui s'exerce sur mer par gens sans
aveu, et d'une maniere furtive." "Leas pirates sont ennemis
du genre humain." "La piraterie, on le brigandage sur met,
est un delit contre la loi universelle des societiep," &c. And
Emerigon fortifies his opinion on this subject, by citations from
the civil law, from other maritime writers, and from Blackstone's Commentaries. It is plain, therefore, that he considered piracy as defined in the civil law, the maritime law, and the
common law of England, as the same crime.

V.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
U. States

by conferring on the national legislature the power
which has been mentioned. It was well known to

V.

Smith.

Bouchard (cited in I Einerigon, c. 12. s.28. p. 527.) " Les
pirates n'ont pas le droit des armes. Ce sont des voleurs et
assassins, qui ne forme pas un corps d'etat. Ennemis des toutes
les nations contre lesquelles ilsexercent indistinctement leurs
brigandages, toutes les nations sont en droit de courir sus, et de
les exterminer sans declaration de guerre."
M. bonnemant, in his edition of the Chevalier De Habreu's
treatise on maritime captures, (edit. 1802, Pari&,part. 1. c. 1.
S.5 .p. 15. note,) says, " les pirates sont ceux dont ]a navigation, les actions et les entreprises ne sont autorisdes ni avoneds
par aucune puissance, qui agissent sur la propridt6 publique et
particuli~re contre le voeu de toutes les nations." And De
Habreu himself (as translated by M. Bonnemant, Part 2. c.6.
s.1. p. 100, 101.) says, " Selon ]a ddfinition dela prise, ilparolt que le droit d'armer en course n'appartient qu' t ceux qui
sont ennemis autorisds, appellds, en Latin, hostes. D'ou ils'ensuit que les brigands et les pirates sont exclus de ce droit;
qu'ilg ne peuvent prdtendre aux privileges que les loix de ]a
guerre accorde aux ennemis, et qu'au contraire ilsm~ritent
d'6tre punis rigoureusement comme los malfaiteurs, et qu'on
est autoris6
se saisir de tous leurs biens." " De tous les
tems ls pirates out t6 regardgs comme des voleurs publics et
des perturbateurs de la paix. C'est pour cela qu'il est libre i.
quiconque s'en saisit de leur 6ter la vie sans se rendre coupable
d'injustice. La prejudice qu'ils causent a la tranquillit: publique, 6.
la libert6 du commerce, et a la sOret6 de la navigation, a fait que toutes les nations se sont accorddes a les poursuivre et t les punir avec la plus grande rigueur."
Ferriere (Dict. du Droit. art. Pirates)says, " Pirates sont
des corsaires, ecumeurs -de mer, qui font des courses sur mer
sans aveu ni autorit6 du Prince ou du Souverain."
In the Encyclopedie des Sciences, &c. (Edit. 1765, art. Pirate,) it is said, " On donne ce nom (Pirate) a des bandits, qui

OF THE UNITED STATES.

17.

1820.
the members of the Federal Convention, that in treatises on the law of nations, or in some of them at u. States
V.

Smith:
marrnaitres d'une vaisseau vont sur mer attaquer les vaisseaux
chands pour les piller et les voler."
Valin (Traitg des Prises, c. 3. s. 2. p. 29.) says, " Or ]a
peine des pirates ou forbans est celle du dernier supplice, suivant l'opinion commune; parceque ce sont des ennemis declr6s de la societa, des violateurs de ]a foi publique and du droit
des gens, des voleurs publiques d main arm6 et (2force ouverte."
Sthaccha says, (De Naut. Part. 3. n. 30.) " Inter Piratam
et Latronem nulla alia est differentia nisi quia Pirata depraedator est in mart."
Casaregis (Disc. 64. n. 4.) says, "Proprie pirata ille discitur
qui sine patentibus alicujus principis ex propria tantum et privata auctoritate per mare discurrit depredendicausd."
Dr. Brown (2 Civ. and Adm. Law, 461, 462.) says, " Piracy
is depredation without authority from any Prince or State, or
transgression of authority by despoiling beyond its warrant."
" Unlawful depredationis of the essence of piracy."
Beawes (Lex .eratoria art. Piracy,p. 250.) says, " A pirate is Ssea thief, or an enemy of human kind, also aims at enriching himself by marine robberies committed either by force,
fraud, or surprise, on merchants or other traders at sea."
Molloy (b. 1. c. 4. s. 1.) says, " A pirate is a sea thief, or
hostis humani generis, who, for to enrich himself either by surprise, or open force, sets upon merchants or others trading at'
sea, ever spoiling their lading, if by possibility they can get the
mastery."
Marshall (Insur. c. 12. s. 11. p. 556.) says, "1The crime of
piracy or robbery on the high seas, is an offence against the uni.
versal law of society."
It is also said in 16 Viner's Abridgment, (art. Pirate and
Piracy, A.'p. 556.) and in Cowell's Interpreter, (Pirate,) " A
pirate is now taken for one who maintains himself by pillage
and robbery at sea."
Comyn's (Dig. Admiralty, E. 3.) defines piracy thus: "Piracy is when a man commits robbery upon the sea;" and he
cites as authority, 3 Inst. 113. and 1 Sir Leol. Jenk, 94.

174

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"

1820.

least, definitions of piracy might be found; but it

u.ates must have been as well known to them that there
v.

Smith.

Lord Coke says, (3 Inst. 113.

Co. Litt. 391.)

"This word

pirate, in Latin, pirata, from the Greek word xitcev, which
again comes from sretoor a transcendo mare, of roving upon
the sea; and, therefore, in English, is called a rover and robber
upan the sea."
Sir Leoline Jenkins, in his charge at the admiralty sessions in
1668, says : " You are, therefore, to inquire of all pirates and
sea rovers, they are in the law hostes humani generis, enemies,
not of one nation, or of one sort of people only, but of all
mankind. They are outlawed as I may say, by the laws of all
nations; that is, out of the protection of all princes, and of all
laws whatsoever. Every body is commissioned, and is to be
armed against them as rebels and traitors to subdue and root
them out. That which is called robbing utpon the highway, the
same being done upon the water, is called piracy. Now, robbery
:; it is distinguished from thieving or larceny, implies not only
the actual taking away of my goods, while I am, as we say, in
peace, but, also, the putting me in fear by taking themjy force
and arms, out of my hands, or in my sight and presence. When
this is done upon the sea, without a lawful commission of war
or reprisals, it is downright piracy." Vol. 1. p. 86.
Again ; in another charge, he says, (vol. I. p. 94.) " The
next sort of offences pointed at in the statute [28 Hen. VIII.
ch. 15.] are robberies ; and a robbery, when it is committed
upon the sea, is what we call piracy. A robbery, when it is
committed upon the land, does imply three things, 1. That there
be a violent assault; 2. That a man's goods be actually taken
from his person or possession; 3. That he who is despoiled be
put in fear thereby. When this is done upon the sea, when
one or more persons enter on board a ship with force and arms,
and those in the ship have their ship carried away by violence,
or their goods taken away out of their possession, and are put
in fright by the assault, this is piracy ; and he that does so is a
pirate or a robber within the statute."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was not such a coincidence on this subject, as to ren-

182o.

der a reference to that code a desirable or safe mode U. States
The statute of Henry VIII. here referred to, does not contain any description of piracy. Before that statute, piracy was
only cognizable by the civil law in the Admiralty Court. But
the statute gave the High Commission Court (created by that
statute) jurisdiction of " all .treasons, felonies, robberies, murders, and confederacies committed in, or on the sea," &c. The
term piracy is not found in the statute, and it is only as a robbery
upon the sea that the High Commission Court has jurisdiction
of piracy. Sir Leoline Jenkins, therefore, refers to the civil
law definition of the offence of piracy; for it is agreed on all
sides, that the statute of Henry VIII has not altered the nature
of the offence. (See 1 Hazuk. P. C. b. 1. a. 87.)
Targa (as I find him quoted by his Spanish translator, Gi o,
Reflex. e.61. De los Corsarios o Pyratas, for the original .is
not before me) says, "Esta (depredacion) se comete de dos
modos, o por causa de guerra'declarada entre dos naciones, &c.
o por modo de hurto violento como Ladrones del Mar y como
lacen los robos en terra los salteadores de caminos; y esto se
compuela con la authentica del Derecho Civil, (a) que distingue la pyrateria del robo," &c. Again; " A los nratas
como tambien a los salteadoresde camino, enemigos comunes,
epresores de la libertad y comercio, y come a violadores d-4
derecho de las genies, puede qualquiera oponerse y los ministros
y subditos del principe pueden perseguir los y prender los
aunque sea fuera del dominio y se hayan refugiado ales estados
confinantes, sin que per esso quede violada la jurisdiccion ; y
presas que sean, se pendran en poder de lajasticia de aquel
Principe en cuyo estado ban sido cogidos." Again; "Y assi
concluyo, diciendo, que deben todos guardarse en el mar de
Pyratas, y en la tierra de Ladrones; y todo aguel, que en el
mar, playa, puerto, 6 otro seno de mar, ) rio navigable, roba ,
apresa, ya sea amigo, esto es, enemigo no declarado, y tambien
los paysanos, 6 enemigos propriamente tales, 4 con pate'nte,
6
estandarte, 6 sin el, 6 con engano, fuerza, simpr e epyrata.
1.5... 19. s.2.
a D g. lb 49. tit.

Smitb%

G:ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
of proceeding in a criminal, and especially in a capiU. States tal case. If it had been intended to adopt the defiV.
Smith.

Citations from civilians and maritime
writers to the same effect might be multiplied ; but they would unnecessarily swell
this note. It remains only to notice the doctrines which have
been held by the tribunals of Great Britain, and asserted by
her common law writers on the subject of piracy.
Hawkins (P. C. b. 1. c. 37.) says, " A pirate at the common
law is a person who commits any of those acts of piracy, robbery and depredation upon the high seas, which, if committed
upon land, would have amounted to felony there."
From the terms of this definition, (if it may be so called,) it
might be supposed, that by piracy at the common law, something
was meant peculiar to that law, and not piracy by the civil law,
or the law of nations. But that was certainly not the meaning
of the writer. For it is perfectly well settled, that piracy is no
felony at common law, being out of its jurisdiction; and before
the statute of 28 Henry VIII. c. 15. it was only punishable by
the civil law. That statute, however, does not (as has been
already stated) alter the nature of the offence in this respect ;
and, therefore, a pardon of all felonies generally, does not extend to it. (2 East's P. C. 796. 1 Hawk. c. 37. s. 6. 8. 10.
1 Hale, 354. 2 Hale, 18. 3 Inst. 112.) And it was also determined in Rex v. Morphes, (Salk. 85.) that " no attainder for
piracy wrought corruption of blood, for it was no offence at
conimon law. (2 East's P. C. 796. Co. Litt. 391. a.) The
intention-of Hawkins must have been to use the phrase " at
the common law" in its most comprehensive sense; in which
sense the law of nations itself is a part of the common law;
since all offences against the law of nations are punishable by
the criminal jurisprudence of England.
Blackstone, in the Commentaries, (4 Comm. 71. 73.) evidently
proceeds upon this notion. He says, " The crime of piracy,
or robbery and depredation upon the high seas, is an offence
against the universal law of society, a pirate being, according to
Sir Edward Coke, hostis humani generis." He goes on to re-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

nition or definitions of this crime, so far as they were
to be collected from the different commentators on-

182o.

it, for it is
mark, that every community hath a right to punish
a war against all mankind. He then gives the definition of piracy by Hawkins, as the definition of the common law; and
then states the several statutes made in England on the subject
of piracy, concluding thus: " These are the principal cases
ii which the statute law of England interposes to aid "and en.

Smith.

force the law of nations as a part of the common law, by inflict-

ing an adequate punishment for offences against that universal
law committed by private persons."
The state trials for piracy in the reign of William 11. are
entitled to great consideration, both from the eminent talents
of the Judges who constituted the tribunal, and the universal approbation of the legal principles asserted iy them. It is, also,
worthy of remark, that in none of these indictments was there
any avdrment that the prisoners were British" subjects ; and
most of them were for piracies committed on foreign subjects
and vessels. They were all framed as indictments-at common
law, or for general piracy, without reference to any British
statute.
In Rex v. Dawson and others, (8 William I1. 1696. 5 State
Trials, I edit. 1-742.) th0 Court was composed. of Sir Charles
Hedges, Judge of the High Court of Admiralty, (as President,)
Lord Chief Justice Holt, Lord Chief Justice TrebyLord Chief
Baron Ward, Mr. Justice Rookby, Mr. Justice Turton, Mr.
Justice Eyre, Mr. Baron Powis, and Doctors Lane, King, and
Cook, (Civilians.) Sir Charles Hedges delivered the charge
to the grand jury, and among other things, directed them as
follows : " Now piracy is only a sea term for robbery, piracy
being a robbery committed within the jursdctiottof the .Admkral-

ty. If any man be assaulted within that jurisdiction, and his
ship or goods violently taken away without legal authority, this
is robbery and piracy. If the mariners of a ship shall violently
dispossess the master, and afterwards carry away the ship itself,
or any of the goods, or tackle, apparel or furniture, itith a feVOL.. V.

23

V.

1 73

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

this code, with all the uncertainty and difficulty at-

".Status
Sta
17.

tending a research for that purpose, it might as well

V.

Smitb.

lonious intention, in any place where the
Lord Admiral bath, or
pretends to have, jurisdiction, this is also robbery and piracy.
The intention will, in these cases, appear, by considering the
end for which the fact is committed, and the end will be known,
if the evidence show you what hath been done. The King of
Englana bath not only an empire or sovereignty over the British seas for the punishment of piracy, but in concurrence with
other Princes and States, an undoubtedjurisdiction and power in
the most remote parts of the 'world. If any person, therefore, native or foreigner, Christian or Infidel, Turk or Pagan, with
whose country we are inamity, trade or correspondence, shall be
robbed or spoiled, in the narrow or other seas, whether the Aledilerranean, Atlantic, or Southern, or any branches thereof, either on
this or the other side of the line, IT ISA PIRACY, within the limiti
of your inquiry, and cognizable by this Court." It seems impossible to doubt, that Sir Charles Hedges here understood piracy
to be punishable by allnations, as a crime against the law of nations, and that its true definition is the same in the civil and
common law, as in the law of nations, viz. robbery upon the
seas ; and that, as such, it was punishable by the British Courts
in virtue of their general concurrent urisdiction on the seas.
In Rex v. Dawson and others, there were several indictments. 1. The first was for piracy in robbing and plundering
the ship Gunsway, belonging to the Great Aogul and his subjects,
in the Indian seas. 2. The second for piracy, in forcibly seizing and feloniously taking, stealing, and carrying away a merchant ship called the Charles 2d. belonging to certain of his majesty's subjects unknown, on the high seas, about three leagues
from the Groyne in Spain. 3. The third was for piracy on two
Danish ships. 4. The fourth for piracy on a Moorish ship.
Dawson pleaded guilty ; and the other prisoners not guilty, and
were upon trial convicted, and all sentenced to death accordingly. It appeared in evidence that the prisoners were part
of the crew of the Charles the 2d, and rose upon her neai

OF THE UNITED STATES.

at once have been adopted as a standard by the constitution itself. The object, therefore, of referring
the Groyne, and afterwards ran away with her, and committed
the piracies. The Solicitor General, in stating the case to the
jury, said, "They (the prisoners) are arraigned for a very
high crime, a robbery upon the seas." " These are crimes
against the law of nations, and worse than robbery on land."

Lord Chief Justice Holt, in delivering the charge to the jury,
said, "that there was a piracy committed on the ship Charles
is most apparent by the evidence that hath been given ; that is,
a force was put upon the master, and some of the seamen on
board her, who because they would not agree to go on a piratical expedition, had liberty to depart and be set ashore, &c.
&c. So that I must tell you beyond all contradiction, the force
put on the 'captain, and taking away this ship, called the
ChFres 2d, is piracy."
On the trial of Kidd and others for piracy, &c. in 13th of
William IIl. 1713, (5 State Trials, edit. 1742.) there were
several indictments. 1. The first was against William Kidd
for the murder of one W. Moore, on the high seas, near the
coast of Malabar, in a vessel called the Adventure Galley,
of which Kidd was commander. 2. The second was against
all the prisoners for piracy in seizing and running away with a
certain merchant ship called the Quedash Merchant, then being
a ship of certainpersons to the jurors unknown, (not stated to be

British subjects,) upon the high seas about ten leagues from
Cutsheen in the East Indies. In fact, the vessel and cargo appeared by the evidence to belong to Armenian merchants, and
then on a voyage from Bengal to Surat. Lord Chief Baron Ward,
in charging thejury on this indictment, said, " the crime charged
upon them (the prisoners) is piracy, that is, seizing and taking
this ship and the goods in it piraticallyandfeloniously. This ship
belonged to people in amity Teith the king of England." " If this

was a capture on the high seas, and these were the goods of
persons in amity with the king, and had no FnzNcH PASS, then
it is a plain piracy ; and if you believe "the witnesses, here is

179
1820.
U. States
V.

Smith.

180

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

v.
Smith.

its definition to Congress was, and could have been
no oter than, to enable that body, to select from
sources it mi;,ht think proper, and then to declare,
and with reasonable precision to define, what act or
acts should constitute this crime; and having done
the taking of the goods and ship of persons in amity, and converting them to their own use. Such a taking as this would be
fe!ony ; and being at sea, it zill be piracy." The prisuners were
convicted and sentenced to death. There were four other indictments, three for piracy on Moorish" ships. and one for piracy on a Portuguese ship; and all the prisoners were convicted and sentenced. Mr. Justice Turton. in charging the
jury on one of these indictments, said, " pirates are called
hostes humani generis, the enemies to all mankind."
The case of Rex v. Green (4 Anne, 1704. 5 State Trials,
573. edit. 1742.) was a libel or indictment in the Court of
Admiralty in Scotland for piracy, manifestly treated both in the
libel and the arguments as a crime against the law of nations,
and as such, also against the law of Scotland.
In Erskine's Institutes of the law of Scotland, in treating of
the crime of piracy, the author says, " piracy 'is that particular kind of robbery which is committed on the seas." (Ersk.
Inst. b. 4. tit. 4. s. 65.) He had in the preceding section,
(64.) declared that, " robbery is truly a species of theft ; for
both are committed on the property of another, and with the
same view of' getting gain ; but robbery is agravated by the
violence with which it is attended." The definition of both
these crimes seems not at all different from that of the comwon law.
The foregoing collection of doctrines, extracted from'writers
on the civil law, the law of nations, the maritime law, and the
common law, in the most ample manner confirms the opinion of
the Court in the case in the text ; and it is with great diffidence
submitted to the learned reader to aid his future researches in
a path, which, fortunately for us, it has not been hitherto necessary to explore with minute accuracy.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

so, to annex to it such punishment as might be
thought proper. 0 Such a mode of proceeding would
be consonant with the universal practice in this country, and with those feelings of humanity which are
ever opposed to the putting in jeopardy the life of a
fellow-being, unless for the contravention of a rule
which has been previously prescribed, and in language
so plain and explicit as not to be misunderstood by
any one. Can this be the case, or can a crime be
said to be defined, even to a common intent, when
those who are desirous of information on the subject
are referred to a code, without knowing with any
certainty, where it is to be found, and from which
even those to whom it may be accessible, can with
difficulty decide, in many cases, whether a particular
act be piracy or not? Although it cannot be denied
that some writers on the law of nations do declare
what acts are deemed piratical, yet it is certain, that
they do not all agree; and if they did, it would seem
unreasonable to impose upon that class of men, who
are the most liable to commit offences of this description, the task of looking beyond the written law
of their own country for a definition of them. If
in criminal cases every thing is sufficiently certain,
which by reference may be rendered so, which was
an argument used at bar, it is not perceived why a
reference to the laws of China, or to any other foreign code, would not have answered the purpose
quite as well as the one which has been resorted to.
It is not certain, that on examination, the crime would
not be found to be more accurately defined in the
code thus referred to, than in any writer on the law

iseo.
U. States

v.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of nations; but the objection to the reference in both
cases is the same; that it is the duty of Congress to
LL States
,.
incorporate into their own statutes a definition in
terms, and not to refer the citizens of the United
Smith.
1820.

States for rules of conduct to the statutes or laws of

any foreign country, with which it is not to be presumed that they are acquainted. Nor does it make
any difference in this case, that the law of nations
forms part of the law of every civilized country.
This may be the case to a certain extent ; but as to
criminal cases, and as to the offence of piracy in particular, the law of nations could not be supposed of
itself to form a rule of action; and, therefore, a reference to it in this instance, must be regarded in the
same light, as a reference to any other foreign code.
But, it is said, that murder and robbery have been
declared to be punishable by the laws of the United
States, without any definition of what act or acts
shall constitute either of these offences. This may
be; but both murder and robbery, with arson, burglary, and some other crimes, are defined by writers on
the common law, which is part of the law of every
State in the Union, of which, for the most obvious
reasons, no one is allowed to allege his ignorance in
excuse for any crime he may commit. Nor is there
any hardship in this, for the great body of the community have it in their power to become acquainted
with the'criminal code under which they live; not
so when acts which constitute a crime are to be collected from a variety of writers, either in different
languages, or under the disadvantage of translations,
and from a code with whose provisions even profes-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sional men are not always acquainted. By the same is~o.
clause of the constitution, Congress have power to U.States
V.
punish offences against the law of nations, and yet it
exe.legitimate
and
fair
a
would hardly be deemed
cution of this authority, to declare, that all offences
against the law of nations, without defining any one
of them, should be punished with death. Such
mode of legislation is but badly calculated to furnish
that precise and accurate information in criminal
cases, which it is the duty, and ought to be the object, of every legislature to impart.
Upon the whole, my opinion is, that there is not to
be found in the act that definition of piracy which
the constitution requires, and, that, therefore, judgment on the special verdict ought to be rendered for
the prisoner.
This cause came on to be heard
CERTIFICATE.
on the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Virginia, and
on the question on which the Judges of that Court
were divided in opinion, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion,
that the offence charged in the indictibent in this
case, and found by the jury to have been'committed
by the prisoner, amounts to the crime of piracy, as
defined by the law of nations, so as to be punishable
under the act of Congress, entitled, "an act to protect the commerce of the United States, and punish
the crime of piracy." All which is ordered to be
certified to the Circuit Court for the district of Virginia.a
a Vide APPENDIx, Note IV. for the new act of Congress on
the subject of piracy, passed May 15, 1820.

