CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
U. States

V.

Decree as the said Circuit Court should have passed,
it is further DECREED and ORDERED, that the said six

thousand two hundred and seventy-six ox hides, be
restored to the claimant: And it is further DECREED,

that the said Claimant pay to the Libellants the costs
and expenses incurred in the prosecution of this suit.

The UNITED STATES V. KLINTOCK.

A commission issued by Aury, as "Brigadier of the Mexican republic," (a republic wnose existence is unknown and unacknowledged,)
or as " Generalissimo of the Floridas," (a province in the possession
of Spain,) will not authorize armed vessels to make captures at sea.
Qumre-Whether a person acting with good faith under such a commission may be guilty of piracy?
However this may be, in general; under the particular circumstances
of this case, showing that the seizure was made, not jure belli, but
animo furandi, the commission was held not to exempt the prisoner from the charge of piracy.
The act of the 30th of April, 1790, c. 36. s. 8. extends to all persons,
on board all vessels, which throw off their national character by
cruizing piratically, and committing piracy on other vessels.

Tins was an indictment in the Circuit Court of
Virginia, against Ralph Klintock, a citizen of the
United States, charging him with a piracy committed on the high seas, in April, 1818, on a vessel called the Norberg, belonging to persons to tle
jurors unknown. He was found guilty generally.
The facts stated were, that the prisoner is a citizen of the United States; that the vessel in which
he sailed as first lieutenant was called the Young

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Spartan; was owned without the United States, 1820.
and cruized under a commission from Aury, styling u. States
V.
himself Brigadier of the Mexican Republic and GeKntock
Fernandina,
at
granted
Floridas,
neralissimo of the
after the United States' government took possession
of it. That he was convicted of a piracy, committed on the Norberg, a Danish vessel, in consequence
of practising the following fraud upon her. The
second officer of the privateer brought on board some
Spanish papers, which he concealed in a locker, and
then affected to have found them on board. The
vessel was then taken possession of, the whole original ship's company left on an island on the coast of
Cuba, and the second officer being put in command,
took the. name of the original captain, sailed for Szvannah, and entered her there, personating the Danish captain and crew. The Young Spartan followed, and put into a port in the vicinity.
The counsel for the prisoner moved, that the j udgment be arrested on the following grounds:
First, That Aury's commission exempts the prisoner from the charge of piracy.
Second, That the fraud practised on the Dane
does not support the charg e of piracy, as an act piratically done, and not in the exercise of belligerent
rights.
Third, That the prisoner is not punishable under
the provisions of the 8th section of the act of
1790.a
a Which provides,

"

That if any person or persons shall

commit, upon the high seas, or in any river, haven, basin, or
VOL. V.

CASES IN TE SUPREME COURT

Fourth, That the act of tie 30th of April, 1790,
U. states 8th section, " entitled an act for the punishment of
V. certain crimes against the United States," does not
1820.

Klintock.

Fcb.14th.

extend to an American citizen entering on board of
a foreign vessel, committing piracy upon a vessel exclusively owned by foreigners.
Upon these errors in arrest of judgment, the judges
of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion, and
directed the points, with their division thereon, to be
certified to this Court.

The Attorney General.for the United States, argued, 1. That although the government and Courts
of the United States had acknowledged the fact of
"the existence of the new States in Spanish America,
so as to legitimate the war between them and the pabay, out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, murder or
robbery, or any other offence, which, if committed within the
body of a county, would by the laws of the United States, be
punishable with death ; or if any captaiun or mariner of any ship
or other vessel, shall piratically and feloniously run away with
such ship or vessel, or any goods or merchandize to the value
of fifty dollars, or yield up such ship or vessel voluntarily to
any pirate; or if any seaman shall lay violent hands upon his
commander, thereby to hinder and prevent his fighting in defence of his ship, or goods committed to his trust, or shall
make a revolt in the ship ; every such offender shall be deemed, taken, and adjudged to be a pirate and felon, and being
thereof convicted, shall suffer death : and the trial of crimes
committed on the high seas, or in any place out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, shall be in the district where
the offender is apprehended, or into which he may be firszt
brought."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rent countrya yet Mexico was not among the pro182o.
vinces in actual• revolt, nor was any such State de U.
"3.tt
States
V.
facto, known to exist as the Mexican republic, under
question
in
commission
the
which
of
the authority
was issued. And even if there were such a power
in existence exercising all the rights of war, Denmark is not at war with it, or with any other of the
Spanish American provinces. 2. Although the fraud
practised on the Dane, may not be in itself an act of
piracy, yet the seizure was a piratical act, and the
ingredient of fraud cannot change its character for
the better. 3. Neither is the prisoner protected by
the decision of this Court in the case of the United
States v. Palmer. That case merely decides, that
the crime of robbery committed on board a ship belonging to subjects of a foreign power, by a foreigner, is not piracy, within the act of the 30th of April,
1790, c. 36. s. 8. But it does not decide, that the
same offence, committed by a citizen, on board of a
vessel not belonging to the subjects of any foreign
power, is not piracy. The vessel on board of which
the crime was committed, does not belong to any
particular nation. A pirate, being hostis hurnani generis, is of no nation or State. He, and his confederates, and the vessel on board of which they sail,
are outcasts from the society of nations. All the
States of the world are engaged in a tacit alliance
-against them. An offence committed by them against
a The Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat. 52. 65. note a, and the
cases there collected. The Estrella, lb. 098. The Neugtra"
Senora de ]a Caridad, b. 497.
b 3 Mheat. .610. 630.

148
1820.

'is
V.
KIintock.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

any individual nation, is an offence against all. It
punishable in the Courts of all. So, in the present case, the offence committed on board a piratical
vessel, by a pirate, against a subject of Denmark,
is

an offence against the United States, which the
Courts of this country are authorized and bound to
punish.
Mr. Winder, contra, contended, that this case was
decided by that of the United States v. Palmer. The
only argument which can be urged for extracting this
case out of that decision is, that the prisoner, in the
present case, is a citizen of the United States, although the offence itself was committed on board of
a foreign vessel. But the whole reasoning of the
Court in Palmeres case, as well as the certificate of
the judgment, shows, that in order to constitute the
offences enumerated in the statute, it is indispensably
necessary, not that the party should be a citizen, but
that the vessel against which, and the vessel on board
of which the offence is committed, should belong to citizens. It is insisted on the other side, that although
the vessel now in question, does not belong to citizens
of the United States, yet she does not belong to any
particular foreign nation; and, therefore, does not
fall within the letter of the authority referred to.
But if by her not belonging to any particular foreign

State, it be meant that she is a piratical vessel, then
the case falls within the late act of 1819, providing
for the punishment of piracy as defined by the law
of nations, and not within the act of 1790. If it

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
falls within the act of 1790, then the act of 1819 is
entirely superfluous. But that act was made to pro- U. States

vide for the very defect in the former law which was
Palmer;
for the first time discovered in the case of
and it is impossible, consistently with the authority
of that case, to bring the present case within the statute, which was the only law in force, on the subject,
at the time when this -offence was committed.

v.

Klintock.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi- Feb. 25th.
nion of the Court. The first and second points
made by the counsel for the prisoner may be considered together.
As judgment can be arrested only for errors appaparent on the record, we should feel no difficulty
in Certifying our opinion of the insufficiency of
these on that ground, were we not persuaded that
from some inattention, the questions which arise
properly on a motion for a new trial, havb been stated
by the clerk as a motion in arrest of judgment, and
that the same points, if undecided now, will recur
when judgment is about to be pronounced. In a
criminal case especially, we think it proper to decide
the question on its real, as well as technical merits.
of Auto's comnZ5
So far as this Court can take any cognizance
that fact, Aury can have no power, either as Briga- mission do"
not exempt the
from
dier of the Mexican Republic, a republic of whose prisoner
of
the charge
pirac.
Generalissimo.of
as
existence we know nothing, or
the Floridas, 'a province in the possession of Spain,
to issue commissions to authorize private or public
vessels to make captures at sea. Whether a person
acting with good faith under such commission, may
Qr may not, be guilty of piracy; we are all of opi-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"

nion that the commission can be no justification of
.Sttes the fact stated in this case. The whole transaction
182.

V.

taken together, demonstrates that the Norberg was

not captured jure belli, but seized and carried
into
Savannah animo furandi. It was not a belligerent
capture, but a robbery on the high seas. And although the fraud practised on the Dane may not of
itself constitute piracy, yet it is an ingredient in the
transaction which has no tendency to mitigate the
character of the offence.
The ocio,
The third and fourth errors assigned in arrest of

Kintook.

of' this

in the, case of •dmet

may also be considered together. The
questions they suggest arise properly on the indictcommented on
andexplained. ment, and require a reconsideration of the opinion

thU.Statesv. judgment
Palmer, ante,
vaol. IlLp. 610,

given by the Court in Palmer's case.
The question propounded to the Court in that
case was in these words: "Whether the crime of robbery, committed by persons who are not citizens of
the United States, on the high seas, on board of any
ship or vessel belonging exclusively to the subjects
of any foreign State or sovereignty, or upon the person of any subject of any foreign State or sovereignty, not on board of any ship or vessel belonging to
any subject or citizen of the United States, be a
robbery or piracy within the true intent and meaning
of the said 8th section of the act of Congress, aforesaid, and of which the Circuit Court of the United
States hath cognizance, to hear, try, determine, and
punish the same?"
The same question was again propounded, so varied only as to comprehend the offence if committed

OF THE UNITED STATES.

by American citizens in a vessel belonging to fo-

reigners.
The Court, in concluding its exposition of the act,
of opinion,
thus sums up its opinion : "The Court is
that the crime of robbery, committed by a person on
the high seas, on board of any ship or vessel belonging exclusively to subjects of a foreign State, on
persons within a vessel belonging exclusively to subjects of a foreign State, is not a piracy within the
true intent and meaning of the act for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States."
The certificate of the Court conforms entirely to this
opinion.
This opinion and certificate apply exclusively to
a robbery or murder committed by a person on board
of any ship or vessel belonging exclusively to subjects of a foreign State. It is, we think, the obvious
import of these words, that, to bring the person committing the murder or robbery within them, the vessel on board which he is, or to which he belongs, must
be at the time, in point of. fact, as well as right, the
property of the subjects of a foreign State, who must
have at the time, in virtue of this property, the control of the vessel. She must at the time be sailing
under the flag of a foreign State, whose authority is
acknowledged. This is the case which was presented to the Court; and this is the case which was decided. We are satisfied that it was properly decided.
But the reasoning which conducted the Court to
this conclusion, is founded on sections of the act, the
general words of which ought to be restricted to
offences committed by persons who, at the time of

1820.

U. States

V.

152

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

committing them, were within the ordinary jurisdiction of the United States; and the language em-

1820.

U.

States

V.

linto k.
The act of

the

30th

of

April,
c.
6. 3. 1790,
a. extends to all
gersons,
on
eoard owill
ve~el , whk~h

ployed may well be understood to indicate an opinion

that the whole act must be limited in its operation
to offences committed by, or upon, the citizens of
the United States. Upon the most deliberate reconsideration of that subject, the Court is satisfied,

thr,,%v ofl their
nal.oui
C111racter
by that general piracy, or murder, or
c,i,,,g p- in the places described in the

robbery, committed
8th section, by per..
sons on board of a vessel not at the time belonging
to the subjects of any foreign power, but in possession of a crew acting in defiance of all law, and acknowledging obedience to no government whatever,
is within the true meaning of this act, and is punishable in the Courts of the United States. Persons
of this description are proper objects for the penal
code of all nations; and we think that the general
words of the act of Congress applying to all persons
whatsoever, though they ought not to be so construed
as to extend to persons under the acknowledged authority of a foreign State, ought to be so construed
as to comprehend those who acknowledge the authority of no State. Those general terms ought not to
be applied to offences committed against the particular sovereignty of a foreign power; but we think
they ought to be applied to offences committed
against all nations, including the United States, by
perons who by common consent are equally amenable to the laws of all nations.
CERTIFICATE.-This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Cour?

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for the District of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion :
• :1st. That Aury's commission does not exempt the
prisoner from the charge of piracy.
2d. That although the fraud practised on the
Dane may not in itself support the charge of piracy,
the whole transaction, as stated in the indictment and
in the facts inserted in the record, does amount to
piracy.
3d. That the prisoner is punishable under the provisions of the 8th section of thb act of 1790.
4th. That the act of the 30th of April, 1790, does
extend to all persons on board all vessels which throw
off their national character by cruizing piratically
and committing piracy on other vessels.

The UNITED

STATES v. SMITH.

The act of the 3d of March, ]819, c. 76. s.5. referring to the law of
nations for a definition of the crime of piracy, is a constitutional exercise of the power of Congress to define and punish that crime.
The crime of piracy is defined by the law of nations with reasonable
certainty.
Robbery, or forcible depredation, upon the sea, anirofurandi,is pira.
cy by the law of nations, and by the act of Congress.

THIS was an indictment for piracy against the
prisoner Thomas Smith, before the Circuit Court of
Vor.. V.

20

163

i820.
. States
U9.

V.

Smith.

