OF THE UNITED STATES.

359

place, of this vessel and cargo. This ransom, whether real or pretended, whether absolute or contingent, (about which, doubts may well be'entertained,)
cannot affect the rights of the United States.

The

forfeiture having attached before any ransom took
place, could not be devested by any act between
parties, conusant as these were, not only of the
fact that a seizure had taken place for a violation of
law, but that legal proceedings had been instituted,
and were then carrying on, to obtain a sentence of
condemnation founded on such violation.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

(LoCAL LAW.)

BLAKm

et al. v.

DOHERTY

et al.

It is essential to the validity of a grant, that the thing granted should
be so described as to'be capable of being distinguished from other.
things of the same kind. But it is not necessary that the grant itself should contain such a description, as without the aid of extrinsic testimony to ascertain precisely what is conveyed.
NKatural objects called for in a grant may be proved by testimony, not
found in the grant, but consistent with it.

The following description, in a patent, of the land granted, is not void
for uncertainty, but may be made certain by extrinsic testimony:
"A tract of land in our middle district on the west fork of Cane
Greek, the waters ofElk river, beginningat a hiccory, running north
1000 poles to a white oak, then east 800 poles to a stake, then south
1000 poles to a stake, thence west 800 poles to the beginning, as
per plat hereunto annexed doth appear."

1820.
BMake

V.
Doherty.

1qW

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1820.
%v.
Blake
V.

The plat and certificate of survey annexed to the patent, and a colly
of the entry on which the survey was made, are admissible in evidence for this purpose,

Doherty.

A general plan made by authority, confcrmably to an act of the local
legislature, may also be submitted with other evidence to the jury,
to avail, quantum valere potest, in ascertaining boundary.
But a demarcation, or private survey, made by direction of a party interested under the grant, is inadmissible evidence, because it would
enable the grantee to fix a vagrant grant by his own act.

,March 2d.

THis cause was argued by Mr. Swann and Mr.
Jones, for the plaintiffs in error, and by the AttorneyGeneral and Mr. Kelly, for the defendants in error.

.ards

lSth.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opi-

nion of the Court. This was an ejectment brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of West Tennessee. The plaintiff made title,
under a grant from the State of Tennessee, dated in
1808, which comprehended the land in controversy.
The defendants claimed under a patent from the
State of North Carolina, dated in 1794, containing
the following description of the land granted, viz.
"4A tract of land containing 5,000 acres, lying and
being in our middle district, on the west fork of
Cane Creek, the waters of Elk river, beginning at a
hiccory running north 1000 poles to a white oak, then
east 800 poles to a stake, then south 1000 poles to a
stake, thence west 800 poles to the beginning, as
.Ter plat hereunto annexed doth appear."
,, For the purpose of designating the land described
if this grant, the defendants then gave in evidence
the plat and certificate of survey annexed thereto,
a certified copy of the entry on which the grant was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

issued, and the general plan or plat filed in the cause.
They also proved, that this plan or plat was a correct representation of Cane Creek, of the west fork
thereof, and of the land claimed by them. They
also proveed, that in 1806, prior to the entry on
which the plaintiff's grant was issued, a survey had
been made, and a corner hiccory and white oak, and
lines around the said tract, (as the defendants then
claimed) were marked; and, prior to the plaintiffs'
entry, were esteemed by the people in the neighbourhood to have been marked as the defendants' land.
The land in dispute lay within the territory ceded to
the United States by the Indians, in 1806, and no
actual survey thereof had been made previous to the
emanation of the grant.
Upon this evidence, the counsel for the plaintiff
requested the Court to inform the jury, that the said
demarcation was not sufficient in law to locate the
grant to the spot included in the said lines; and that
the locality of the said lines could not legally be ascertained, either by the plat annexed to the grant, or
by the entry or general plan; but the Court instructed the jury, that the said demarcation, entry,
and general plan, might be used by them for that
purpose.
The counsel for the plaintiffs excepted to this direction of the Court; and, a verdict and judgment
having been given for the defendants, the cause is
brought by writ of error before this Court.
As the first patentee was a fair purchaser of the
quantity of land specified in his grant, and has placed
his warrant, which was the evidence of that pur46
\'..,. V

is2o.
V.
Dohcri:

362
1s-20.

Blake

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

chase, in the hands of the surveyor, a public officer
designated by the State to survey the land intended
to be granted; and as the land claimed under this
grant, was actually surveyed and marked
out before
the plaintiff made his entry, so as to give him full
knowledge of the title of the defendants, whatever
that title might be; the plaintiff can put himself only
on the strict law of his case. But to that strict law
he is entitled.
It is contended, that the Circuit Court erred,
1st. Because the grant, under which the defendants
claim, is absolutely void for uncertainty; and, consequently, no testimony whatsoever ought to have
been admitted to give it locality.
That disposition, which all Courts ought to feel,
to support a grant fairly made for a valuable consideration, receives additional force from the situation
in which the titles to land in Tennessee are placed;
and the Courts of that State have invariably carried
construction as far as could be justified to effect this
purpose.
It is undoubtedly essential to the validity of a
grant, that there should be a thing granted, which
must be so described as to be capable of being distinguished from other things of the same kind. But
it is not necessary that the grant itself should contain such a description as, without the aid of extrinsic testimony, to ascertain precisely what is conveyed. Almost all grants of land call for natural
objects which must be proved by testimony consistent with the grant, but not found in it. Cane Creek,
and its west fork, are to be proved by witnesses. So

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the hiccory which is to constitute the beginning of a
survey of a tract of land to lie on the west fork of
Cane Creek. If. in the nature of things, it be impossible to find this hiccory, all will admit the grant
must be void. But if it is not impossible, if we can
imagine testimony which will show any particalar
hiccory to be that which is called for in the grant,
then it is not absolutely void for uncertainty, whatever difficulty may attend the location of it.
Now suppose this grant to have been founded on
actual survey; suppose the surveyor and chain carriers to go to the hiccory claimed by the defendants
as their beginning, to show it marked as a beginning,
to trace a line of marked trees from this beginning
around the land, and to prove that this is the very
land which was surveyed for the person ia whose
favour the grant issued. In such a case, the right
of the defendants to hold the land would scarcely be
questioned. Yet if the patent was void upon its
face, these circumstances could not make it good.
The grant purports to have been made on an actual
survey; and the non-existence of that survey, though
it may increase the difficulty of ascertaining the
land granted, does not change the face of the instrument.
It has been said, that this patent does not call for
a marked hiccory, and, therefore, no means exist of
distinguishing it from any other hiccory. But it may
have been marked 'by the surveyor, as corner trees
are generally marked, without noticing the fict in
the grant; and it is identity, not notgriety, which is
the subject of inquiry.

1820.

V.

Doherty.

364

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

Could it even have been known by the patentee,

or by those who might purchase from him, that the
land had not been surveyed, yet a beginning corner
oery. might have been marked, and if the beginning be
V.

established, the whole tract is easily found.
We think, then, that testimony might exist to give
locality to this grant, and, therefore, that it is nos
void on its face for uncertainty.
2d. We are next to inquire, whether improper testimony was admitted, and whether the Court misdirected the jury.
It has been determined in this Court, that the plat
and certificate of survey, annexed to the patent, may
be given in evidence; and it has been determined in
the Courts of Tennessee, that a copy of the entry on
which the survey was made is also admissible. In
admitting these papers, then, there was no error.
But the Court also admitted what is called a general plan, and a survey made prior to the plaintiff's
entry of the land as claimed by the defendants.
The bill of exceptions does not so describe this
general plan, as to enable the Court to say, with certainty, what it is. If it is a plan made by authority,
in conformity with any act of the legislature, it may
be submitted, with other evidence, to the consideration of a jury, to avail, as much as it may, in ascertaining boundary. But the Court has also permitted
what is denominated a demarcation, which we understand to be a private survey made by direction of
a party interested under the grant, and assented to by
the defendants, to be given in evidence.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This private survey might have been made on any
other part of the west fork of Cane Creek, with as
much propriety as on that where it has been made.
It would have been equally admissible if placed any
where else on that stream. To allow it any weight,
would be to allow the grantee to appropriate, by
force of a grant, lands not originally appropriated by
that grant. This would subvert all those principles
relative to conveyances of land which we have been
accustomed to consider as constituting immutable
rules of property.
The legislature of Tennessee has certainly not supposed that any individual possessed this power of
fixing vagrant grants. In the act of 1807, ch. 2.
they have enacted, that any person claiming under
a grant from the State of North Carolina, issued
6n a good and valid warrant, the locality-of which
said grant cannot be ascertained, on account of the
vagueness of the calls by the surveyor, or from the
calls and corners of the said survey becoming lost or
destroyed, or on account of the surveyor and chain
carriers being deceased, so that the marks and corners cannot be established, shall be entitled to obtain
a grant for the same quantity of land called for in
said grant."
This liberal provision would have been totally unnecessary if the grantee might have remedied every
uncertainty in his patent by his own act. If under
his patent he might survey any vacant land he chose,
the privilege of obtaining a new patent would be a
very useless one.

365
s20.
Blake

V.

Doherty.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

366
1820.

Blake

v.

Doherty.

It is obvious, that the legislature did not suspect
the existence of this power to make new boundaries
where none before had been made, or where none
could be found. Neither, as we understand the cases,
has this principle been established by the Courts of
Tennessee. The case relied on for this purpose, is
the heirs and devisees of Williamson v. Buchanan,
(2 Ten. Rep. 278.)
In this case, Judge White was of opinion, that the
land was ascertained by the calls of the patent, with6ut resorting to the survey and marks made subsequent to its emanation. Both his argument, and his
language, in coming to this conclusion, indicate the
opinion that Buchanan's claim to the land in controversy depended on it. After having come to this
conclusion, however, he throws out some hints calculated to suggest the idea, that these modern marks
might possibly have been considered, had the case
required it, as the renewal of ancient ones which had
been destroyed. But these hints seem rather to have
been intended to alarm those who were taking up
land held by others under ancient grants, whose
boundaries were not accurately defined, except by
those modern marks, than to give any positive opinion on the point. At any rate, these suggestions
were made in a case where the patent, as construed
by the Judge, called to adjoin the upper line of another tract, and its general position was, consequently,
ascertained. In such a case, where the body of the
land was placed, its particular boundaries might be
ascertained by testimony which would not be deem-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ed sufficient where the patent contained no description which would fix its general position.
Judge Overton, who also sat in this cause, gave
his
more importance to the marks newly made; yet,
opinion too seems to be founded on the fact, that
the body of the land was fixed by the description
contained in the patent. " Before the plaintiffs
made their entry," he said, " new marks for a corner were shown, running from which the courses of
the grant, land would be included, sufficiently notorious in point of conformity with the calls of the
grant. The general description, both of the entry
and the grant, reasonably agrees with the locality of
the land by these new marks." He then argues,
that these new marks may be considered as replacing others which bad been originally made.
The case, however, did not depend on this point,
and it was not decided. Had it ever been decided,
this Court would 4ave felt much difficulty in considering a decision admitting marks as auxiliary evidence to prove precise boundary, in a case where the
patent was admitted to contain a description sufficiently certain to place the body of the land, as authority for the admission of marks made by the party
himself, in a case where the patent only places the
land on a stream, with the length of which we are
unacquainted.
We think, then, that the Circuit Court erred in instructingthisjury, thatthey might use this demarcation
for the purpose of ascertaining the land contained
in the grant under which the defendants claimed, and
for this error the judgment must be reversed.

367
1820.
Blake

V.
Doherty.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

368
1820.
Blake

Doherty.

Mr. Justice

JOHNSON

dissented.

The principal

in this case, arise from the equivocal nature of the language in which the bill of exceptions
is expressed. In that part of it which details the evi-

Sdifficulties

dence offered, the words are, " that in 1806, or early
in 1807, a corner hiccory, and a white oak, and
lines around said tract, as now claimed and represented in said plat, were marked." The word marked,
may be taken either as an adjective, or a participle,
and in the former sense it would mean, it was then a
marked line. If this be its proper sense, it isimpossible to doubt that the evidence was altogether unexceptionable: In this sense, I am inclined to think,
the word ought to be taken, from reference to the
context. For, one general object was to prove notoriety, or notice to the plaintiff, in order to affect
him with the charge of obstinacy or folly in running
a line which had already been surveyed. And thle
same inference results from its being stated a few
lines after, "9that no proof was given of any lines
'A
or corners having been marked before 1806
if
the
nugatory,
been
have
passage which would
word marked had been used as a participle of the
verb to mark; for, the affirmance of the action at a
specified time, would have implied a negation as to
any other time.
But taking this word With its grammatical effect
as a participle, then an ambiguity arises on a comparison of the charge prayed and the charge given,
as expressed in the subsequent part of the bill of exceptions. For, the prayer is, "that the judge instruct the jury, that said demarcation was not in laW

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
,qufficient to locate said grant to the spot included in
lands
said
of
the
locality
said lines ; and, also, that
Blake
v.
could not legally be ascertained, either wholly or in
said Doherty.
by
or
grant,
the
to
annexed
plat
the
by
part,
entry, a copy whereof is annexed as aforesaid, or by
said general plan; but the said Judge instructed the
jury, that the said demarcation might be used for
that purpose by the jury, and, also, that the plat
aforesaid might be used by them, and the said entry,
also, and the said general plan for the same purpose."
If the instruction prayed was, that the demarcation, as it is called, considering it as the act of an
indifferent person, had not the effect of an original
survey, in defining, or laying off to the defendant the
land which it embraced, there cannot be a doubt,
that he was entitled to that charge, and it was error
in the Court not to have given it. But I am of opinion, that it cannot be so understood; for, there is no
refusal to give the instruction prayed, and a differenf
instruction given; but the words of.the instruction
are calculated to express a direct negation of the
proposition maintained by the plaintiff. It is obvious,
from the language of the charge, that the Court
considers the instruction prayed, as in the same degree applicable to every item of the evidence tendered ; and I am, therefore, sanctioned in assuming, that
the charge did not go to the legal effect of the demarcation, but asserted, that evidence of its having
been made, and where it was made, with reference
to the conflicting lines of the parties, was proper to
go to the jury. Under this view of the subject, I
VOL. V.

47

370
1820.
'ake

V.
Doherty.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

cannot see how it was possible, unless the grant was
void, to withhold it from the jury, when pursuing the
inquiry into which they were called to enter. The

grant conveys a specified quantity
of land, and the

locus in quo is the only question to be decided. A
reference is made by the grant to a plat annexed,
and the defendant must prove, that the land be holds
conforms in description to the original plat. He
must, of course, show what land he does hold, and
this can only be done by reference to his marked
line. The conformity of the demarcation to the original plat is a subsequent and subordinate question,
and one which the jury must decide on, according to
the evidence which shall be adduced to that point.
But how to introduce it without referring to the defendant's line, I cannot perceive.
I cannot subscribe to the opinion, that the idea is
for a moment to be tolerated, that there is any thing
fictitious or unreal in the plat attached to the solemn
grant of the State. It bears upon its face the only
evidence which ought to be required, and evidence,
in my opinion, which ought not to be contradicted,
that a survey actually was made. Nor are marked
trees or boundaries indispensable to such a survey ;
though the lines had been traced out on the soil, or
stepped off to the grantee, the grant would attach to
the designated spot with all the force that would
have been given to it by a fence or a wall. Identity
is the only question to be decided by a jury, and if
they can be satisfied that the land held by the defendant is the same land which was granted to him,
it is all that should be required. At least, early

OF THE UNITED STATES.

grants should have the benefit of these principles as
against those who interfere with existing lines. And
this I understand to be the received doctrine of the
Courts of Tennessee. (Smith v. Buchanan, 2 Ten.
Rep. 308.)
It will be perceived, that the sufficiency of the
evidence in this case to establish the locus in quo, is
not the question. If the verdict was founded on
evidence which could not support it, that might have
been considered below, on a motion for a new trial.
But the single question which the case presents is,
whether the evidence here tendered was proper circumstantial evidence to go to the jury, in order to
establish the locus in quo. The answer of the Court
is, that it may be usedfor that purpose. And, in my
opinion, unless it ought to have been rejected altogether on the ground of invalidity of the grant, it
was all properly admitted for that purpose ; not on
the idea that the demarcation operated at all in conveying the estate, but as a necessary preliminary to
the whole evidence. Respecting the entry, there can
be no doubt; and all the rest was calculated to prove
that these lines were marked at an early day, and engrafted upon a general survey of the county, made
under an act of the legislature, for the purpose of exhibiting the relative position of estates claimed in the
county. This showed the early and continued claim
of the defendant; and whether his possession was of
the same land which had been granted to him by the
State, remained for the jury to decide, upon such
evidence as the nature of the case required. Facts
may have existed in their own knowledge of the

s20.
l
v.
Doherty,

372

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Ba

V.
Doherty.

country, or been brought to their notice from the
testimony of others, or may even have been gathered
from the face of the plat, and reference to natural

objects.
We know the manner in which this conntry has
been sold and settled, and the necessity of yielding a
liberal acquiescence to the claims of early grants. So
strongly am I impressed with this opinion, that I see
no reason why a grant may not have the effect of a
standing warrant of survey, as long as the land, purporting to have been surveyed, shall remain unoccupied. It is doing no injury to the individual right;
and the State having received a compensation, and
pledged itself for the conveyance of a certain quantity of land, sustains no injury, where the survey is
reasonable, and bearing a subsequent conformity to
the grant and survey under which the claim is asserted.
In the case before us, it is obvious that the survey
offered in evidence was made. 'ith reference to the
Creek, as traced upon the original plat. It does not,
it is true, conform to the entry in commencing at
the mouth of the west fork, which is obviously the
true construction of the entry, but it embraces the
mouth of the Wdst fork, and conforms to natural
objects. And this appears to be sufficient underthe
decisions of this Court, and the liberal principles admitted in Tennessee in surveying upon entries.
(M'Ivers' Lessee v. Walker and Lassiter, 9 Cranch,
173, and 2 Ten. Rep. 66. etpassim.) At least, I
presume the evidence in this case was all properly
used toward establishing the right to that part of

F

OF THE UNITED'STATES.

376

the defendant's land which lay above the mouth of
0o
the west branch of Cane Creek, with reference to Blake
which part the survey might well be supported by Dovrty.
his entry; and if it was legally admitted as to any
part, the instruction of the judge ought to be sustained.
It has been urged, that this idea precludes the necessity of those statutory provisions of Tennessee,

which permit the holders of grants on which the
lands cannot be located to lay their warrants upon
other land.
I confess I cannot see the force of this argument;
for it is not contended, that an individual survey will
give any strength to a title otherwise defective, or
cure any inherent vice in the original survey. If
the plat attached to the grant has reference to nothing from which its locality can be determined, it
is not pretended, that an individual, or private survey, will make it better. On the contrary, the defence is founded upon the supposition, that the cases
provided for by those laws, is not this case ; that the
land admits of being identified, and is that which
the defendant has marked off. It would be curious
if other Courts should decide that the defendant's
case was not provided for because it had locality,
while we are deciding, that it is provided for because
it has no locality. He would then have no consolation for the necessity of abandoning his " dulcia
arva," and becoming the " novus hospes" of somq
other resting place.
Judgment reversect

374
1820.
Handly's

Lessee

Anthony.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

This cause came on to be heard on
transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for
the district of West Tennessee, and was argued by
JUDGMENT.

Sthe

counsel.

On consideration whereof, this Court is of

opinion, that the Circuit Court for the district of
West Tennessee erred in instructing the jury, that
they might use the demarcation, in the bill of
exceptions and opinion of the Court mentioned, for
the purpose of ascertaining the land contained in
the grant under which the defendant claimed. It
is, therefore, ADJUDGED and ORDERED, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this case be, and
the same is, hereby reversed and annulled. It is
further ORDERED, that the said cause be remanded
to the said Circuit Court, with directions to issue a
venirefaciasde novo.

(LoCAL LAW.)

HANDLY'S

Lessee v.

ANTHONY

et al.

The boundary of the State of Kentucky extends only to low water
mark on the western or northwestern side of the river Ohio; and
does not include a peninsula, or island, on the western or northwestern bank, separated from the main land by a channel or bayou,
which is filled with water only when the river rises above its banks,
and is, at other times, dry.
When a.river is the boundary between two nations or states, if the
original property is in neither, and there be no convention respecting it, each holds to the middle of the stream. But when, as in this

