OF THE UNITED STATES.

in. It is therefore DECREED and ORDERED, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court in this case be, and
the same is hereby, reversed and annulled. And it
is further ordered, that the said cause be remanded to
the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be
had therein according to law.

317
82o.
oh
Loughbo.

rough
V.

Blake.

(CO STITUTIONAL LAWT.)

LOUGHBOROUGH

v. BLAKE.

Congress has authority to impose a direct tax on the district of Columbia, in proportion to the census directed to be taken by the
constitution.
The power of Congress to levy and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
excises, is co-extensive with the territory of the United States.
The power of Congress to exercise exclusivejursdictionin all cases
whatsoever within the district of Columbia, includes the power of

taxing it.

THIS case, which was an action of trespass
brought in the Circuit Court for the district of Columbia, to try the right of Congress to impose a direct tax on that district, and in which the Court
below gave judgment for the defendant, was argued
by Mr. Jones for the plaintiff, and by the Attorney
Generalfor the defendant.

Marclzth.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi- xarc 10.h.
nion of the Court. This case presents to the consideration ol the Court a single question. It is this;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUT"

18P.

MJts Congress a right to impose a direct tax on the

-District of Columbia?
The counsel who maintais the hegative has contended, that Congress must be considered in two
Bk.
.distinct characters. In one character as legislating
for the States; in the other, as a local legislature for
the district. In the latter character, it is admitted,
the power of levying direct taxes may be exercised ;
but, it is contended, for district purposes only, in like
manner as the legislature of a State may tax the people of a State for State purposes.
Without inquiring at present into the soundness of
this distinction, its possible influence on the application in this district of the first article of the constitution, and of several of the amendments, may not be
altogether unworthy of consideration. tt will readily
suggest itself to the gentlemen who press this argument, that those articles which, in general terms,
restrain the power of Congress, may be applied to
the laws enacted by that body for the district, if it be
considered as governing the district in its character
as the national legislature, with less difficulty than if
it be considered a mere local legislature.
But we deem it unnecessary to pursue this investigation, because we think the right of Congress to
tax the district does not depend solely on the grant of
exclusive legislation.
The 8th section of the 1st article gives to Coner of
The
C.ng
to
I.Yg
datt gress the "power
to lay and ibollect taxes, duties,
to imposts and excises," for the purposes thereinafter
&c. et,
V.

the district of

mentioned. This grant is general, without limitation as to place. It, consequently, extends to all

lbothe territories of the u .
vited StateX.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

319

places over which the government extends. If this
i8m
could be doubted, the doubt is removed by the sub- Loughboroug
sequent words which, modify the grant. These
words are, " but all duties, imposts, and excises,
BLe.
shall be uniform throughout the United Sfates." It
will not be contended, that the modification of the
power extends to places to which the power itself
does not extend. The power then to lay and collect
duties, imposts, and excises, may be exercised, and
must be exercised throughout the United States.
Does this term designate the whole, or any particular portion of the American empire ? Certainly this
question can admit of but one answer. It is the
name given to our great republic, which is composed
of States and territories. The district of Columbia,
or the territory west of the Missouri, is not less
within the United States, than Maryland or Pennsylvania ; and it is not less necessary, on the principles of our constitution, that uniformity in the imposition of imposts, duties, and excises, .should be
observed in the one, than in the other. Since, then,
the power to lay and collect taxes, which includes
direct taxes, is obviously co-extensive with the power
to lay and collect duties, imposts and excises, and siace
the latter extends throughout the United States, it
follows, that the power to impose direct taxes also th axextends throughout the United States.
partineu o
tthe se-eral
The extent of the grant being ascertained, how i7Wgto
states,fheib"
a,,'d.
re.
far is it abridged by any part of the constitution?
e
nu.
bers, to be as-

by a
The 20th section of the first article declares, that certained
cenpSU$) was
not
,,
tendeto
apporbe
shall
taxes
direct
and
representatives
restrict
the
iintioned among the several States which may be in- power
posingt ofdirect

taxes to :tate,
,.11lr

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.

Loughborough

V.
Blake.

eluded within this Union, according to their respective numbers."
The object of this regulation is, we think, to furnish a standard by which taxes are to be apportioned, not to exempt from their operation any part of
our country. Had the intention been to exempt
from taxation those who were not represented in
Congress, that intention would have been expressed
in direct terms. The power having been expressly
granted, the exception would have been expressly
made. But a limitation can scarcely be said to be
insinuated. The words used do not mean, that direct taxes shall be imposed on States only which are
represented, or shall be apportioned to representatives ; but that direct taxation, in its application to
States, shall be apportioned to numbers. Representation is not made the foundation of taxation. If,
under the enumeration of a representative for every
30,000 souls, one State had been found to contain
59,000, and another 60,000, the first would have been
entitled to only one representative, and the last to
two. Their taxes, however, would not have been
as one to two, but as fifty-nine to sixty. This clause
was obviously not intended to create any exemption
from taxation, or to make taxation dependent on representation, but to furnish a standard for the apportionment of each on the States.
The 4th paragraph of the 9th section of the same
article will next be considered. It is in these words:
"No capitation, or other direct tax, shall be laid, unless in proportion to the census, or enumeration herein before directed to be taken."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'he census referred to is in that clause of the
constitution which has just been considered, which
makes numbers the standard by which both representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among

the States. The actual enumeration is to be made
"within three years after the first meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent term of ten years, in such manner as they shall
by law direct."
As the direct and declared object of this census is,
to furnish a standard by which "representatives,
and direct taxes, may be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union,"
it will be admitted, that the omission to extend it to
the district or the territories, would not render it defective. The census referred to is admitted to be a
census exhibiting the numbers of the respective
States. It cannot, however, be admitted, that the
argument which limits the application of the power
of direct taxation to the population contained in this
census, is a just one. The language of the clause
does not imply this restriction. It is not that " no
capitation or other direct tax shall be laid, unless on
those comprehended within the census herein before
directed to be taken," but " unless in proportion to"
that census. Now this proportion may be applied
to the district or territories. If an enumeration be
taken of the population in the district and territories,
on the same principles on which the enumeration of the
respective States is made, then the information is
acquired by which a direct tax may be imposed on
the district and territories, " in proportion to the
Vorz. V.

41

1820.
Loughbo-

rough

Bavke,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

census or enumeration" which the constitution directs
Loughbo- to be taken.
rough
The standard, then, by which direct taxes must
V.
Blake.
be laid, is applicable to this district, and will enable
Congress to apportion on it, its just and equal share of
the burthen, with the same accuracy as on the respective States. If the tax be laid in this proportion,
it is within the very words of the restriction. It is
a tax in proportion to the census or enumeration referred to.
But the argument is presented in another form, in
which its refutation is more difficult. It is urged
against this construction, that it would produce the
necessity of extending direct taxation to the district
and territories, which would not only be inconvenient, but contrary to the understanding and practice
of the whole government. If the power of imposing
direct taxes be co-extensive with the United States,
then it is contended, that the restrictive clause, if applicable to the district and territories, requires that
the tax should be extended to them, since to omit
them would be to violate the rule of proportion.
:ongre,,
We think, a satisfactory answer to this argument
Butnot
are
bound
to extend a may be drawn from a fair comparative view of the
1820.

direct tax to

thedistrietand
territories.

different clauses of the constitution which have been
recited.
That the general grant of power to lay and collect taxes, is made in terms which comprehend the
district and territories as well as the States, is, we
think, incontrovertible. The subsequent clauses are
intended to regulate the exercise of this power, not
to withdraw from it any portion of the community.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The words in which those clauses are expressed im-

323
1890.

port this intention. In thus regulating its exercise, ,Loughborough
a rule is given in the 2d section of the first article
for its application to the respective States. That
Blake.
rule declares how direct taxes upon the States shall
be imposed. They shall be apportioned upon the
several States according to their numbers. If, then,
a direct tax be laid at all, it must be laid on every
State, conformably to the rule provide.d in the constitution. Congress has clearly no power to exempt
any State from its due share of the burthen. But
this regulation is expressly confined to the States,
and creates no necessity for extending the tax to the
district or territories. The wdrds of the 9th section
do not in terms require, that the system of direct
taxation, when resorted to, shall be extended to the
territories, as the words of the '2d section require
that it shall be extended to all the States. They,
therefore, may, without violence, be understood to
give a rule when the territories shall be taxed, without imposing the necessity of taxing them. It could
scarcely escape the members of the convention, that
the expense of executing the law in a territory might
exceed the amount of the tax. But be this as it
may, the doubt created by the words of the 9th section, relates to the obligation to apportion a direct
tax on the territories as well as the States, rather
than to the power to do so.
If, then, the language of the constitution be construed to comprehend the territories and district of
Columbia, as well as the States, that language confers on Congress the power of taxing the district

CASES IN THk SUPREME COURT

324
1820.

and territories as well as the States. If the general
of the constitution should be confined to

Slanguage

Loughbo-

ugh

Blke,

The power of
e-ciusive legislation
inhe districtovcr

.khides the
power of im-

pos.ig ta.

Z

the States, still the 16th paragraph of the 8th section
gives to Congress the power of exercising " exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever within this
district."
On the extent of these terms, according to the
common understanding of mankind, there can be no
difference of opinion ; but it is contended, that they
must be limited by that great principle which was
asserted in our revolution, that representation is inseparable from taxation.
The difference between requiring a continent,
with an immense population, to submit to be taxed
by a government having no common interest
with it, separated from it by a vast ocean, restrained
by no principle of apportionment, and associated
with it by no common feelings; and permitting the
representatives of the American people, under the
restrictions of our constitution, to tax ;a part of the
society, which is either in a state of infancy advanting to manhood, looking forward to complete equality so soon as that state of manhood shall he attained, as is the case with the territories ; or which has
voluntarily relinquished the right of representation,
and has adopted the whole body of Congress for its
legitimate government, as is the case with the district, is too obvious not to present itself to the minds
of all. Although in theory it might be more congenial to the spirit of our institutions to admit a representative from the district, it may be doubted whether, in fact, its interests would be rendered thereby

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i more secure; amd certainly the constitution does
not consider their want of a representative in Con- "
gress as exempting it from equal taxation.
If it were true that, according to the spirit of our
constitution, the power of taxation must be limited
by the right of representation, whence is derived the
right' to lay and collect duties, imposts, and excises,
within this district ? If the principles of liberty, and
of our constitution, forbid the raising of revenue
from those who are not represented, do not these
principles forbid the raising it by duties, imposts,
and excises, as well as by a direct tax ? If the principles of our revolution give a rule applicable to this
case, we cannot have forgotten that ieither the
stamp act nor the duty on tea were direct taxes.
Yet it is admitted, that the constitution not only
allows, but enjoins the government to extend the
ordinary revenue system to this district.
If it be said, that the principle of uniformity, established in the constitution, secures the district from
oppression in the imposition of indirect taxes, it is
not less true, that the principle of apportionment,
also established in the constitution, secures the district from any oppressive exercise of the power to lay
and collect direct taxes.
After giving this subject 'its serious attention, the
Court is unanimously of opinion, that Congress possesses, under the constitution, the power to lay and
collect direct taxes within the District of Columbia,
in proportion to the census directed to be taken by
the constitution, and that there is no error Inthe
judgment of the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed

1820.
rough
Di'.lke.

