429

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1820.
Campbell
V.

Pratt.

(CEcNWEiY.)
CAMPBELL V. PRATT

et al.

Explanation of the former decree of this Court in the same eas,
9 Cranch, 500.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Key, for the ap- Jlarc s .A

pellant, and by Mr. Jones, for the respondents.
Mr. Justice JoHnsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court. The principal question in this case is, whether the Circuit Court has executed the decrees formerly pronounced between these parties'a according
to their true intent and meaning. Some obscurity
has been thrown over the meaning of those decrees,
from an obvious error in copying them into the minutes. The primary object of this Court was, to
give to Law the benefit of a foreclosure in all the lots
included in the mortgage from Morris, Nicholson and
Greenleaf, in whose right, Pratt, Francis and Company founded their claim. But being called upon
by the equity of intervening interests, (in creating
which Law himself had had some agency,) they decreed a distribution of the whole amount due to
Law, between that class of lots, still held by the
mortgagor, and that which had passed into the hands
a S. C. 9 Cranch, 500.

Alarch 16th,

430.
1820.
Campbell.

V.
Pratt.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of the present appellants.

This class was again

subject to another discrimination, inasmuch as thirteen of the thirty-two purchased by the appellant,
were subject to a second mortgage, executed by
Morris, Nicholson, and Greenleaf, to one Duncanson, and the equitable interest in which was adjudged to the assignee of Greenleaf. The sum which
thirty-two lots were decreed to contribute to the payment of Law, was to be determined by the ratio
'which these lots bore to the whole of the mortgaged
premises.
It is now contended, that another distribution of
the sum thus charged,-is to be made between the lots
thus mortgaged to Duncanson, and the remaining
lots of this class. And it is ascertained, thatthe
consequence will be, putting a considerable sum inthe pocket of this appellant, to the prejudice-of
Duncanson's mortgage, as the sale of those thirteen
lots falls considerably short of satisfying the sum
decreed on that mortgage. That is, that these thirteen lots shall be charged rateably with, the sum
charged upon the whole class, so as to contribute to
relieve the remaining lots, and by thus contributing
to the satisfaction of Law's mortgage, leave the
larger sum from the sale of the remaining lots to be
paid over to this appellant. This, it is contended, is
both conformable to the decree, and to general principles.
If conformable to the decree, it is in vain to refer
to general principles. But, we think, the purport of
the decree is obviously otherwise. Campbell, claim-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing as purchaser at sheriffs' sales, under an attachment of the interest of the mortgagors, filed his bill
for a redemption of the whole of this class oftolots,
repermitted
and the Court decreed,.that he be
deem, on payment, first, of the ratio of Law's mortgage, charged on this class, secondly, on payment of
two thirds of the amount of principal and interest
of the debt due to Duncanson. And as the opposite
claimants had filed their bill for a foreclosure, a sale
is ordered of the whole of this class of lots to raise
the money, to be applied in the same manner, if
Campbell should fail. in six months to redeem. The
application of the amount of sales must then be regulated by the right of redemption as decreed to
Campbell ; and that is, that -he pay, first, the contribution to Law, secondly, the amount due to Duncanson, upon which conditions only lie could hold
the lots discharged of the mortgages, and, consequently, after those payments only, could he receive
the.balance of the money, the representative of his
remaining interest in the.land.
And this exposition of the decree is perfectly consonant with general principles. All the doubt in the
case has been raised by the effort -to exhibit this
appellant as the holder of an independent interest,
that is, as a third incumbrancer. But this is by no
means his relative character. He is nothing more
than the legal representative of the interests of Morris, Nicholson, and Greenleaf, in the lots attached,
and.sold to him. The attachment was levied upon
the equity of redemption existing in those mortga-

1820.

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

gors ; and the decision of this Court, in supporting
Campbell his right, was placed upon the decision of the Courts
V.
of Maryland, (in which the land then lay,) which
182o.

maintained the validity of an attachment
levied upon

an equity of redemption. He was, then, nothing
more than the assignee of an equity of redemption,
and could claim no greater equity as against either
Duncanson or Law. That he was not to be considered as a subsequent incumbrancer, is conclusively
determined by this consideration, that there would
then have been no equity of redemption outstanding
in any one. In the relation of the assignee of an equity
of redemption, he appeared first in this Court, and it
is obvious from the former decree, that in that light
only did this Court view him. In this light, he could
lay claim to no rights inconsistent with those of the
creditor; and, as far as the proceeds of the 13 lots
were adequate to satisfying Duncanson, he could be
entitled to nothing until that debt was paid. Any
other application of the proceeds of those lots would
be preferring the mortgagor to the mortgagee, or the
debtor to the creditor; and confer on the assignee of
the equity of redemption, a greater equity against
the mortgagee than could have been decreed to the
original mortgagor.
That part of the decision of the Circuit Court,
will, therefore, be affirmed. But of the remaining
two points, it will be necessary to refer the subject,
in order to have the statements and evidence in this
record compared, upon which a conclusion must be
formed. If this appellant has been charged with-a
greater amount than his just ratio of the debt due to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

JLaw, he is entitled to relief. But the principles
being established, this becomes a mere matter of nu-

18i2o.
The Atalaa-

ta.

merical calculation.
Decree accordingly.

(PRIZE.)

The ATALAJTA.-FauSSat, Claimant.
A question of proprietary interest on farther proof. Condemnation
pronounced.

This cause was continued at February term,
1 8,a' for farther proof, but the farther proof received at the last term being unsatisfactory, it was again,
continued, on account of some peculiarcircumstances
in the case, to the preselnt term, when no farther
proof being produced, condemnation was pro,
nounced.
Decree reversed,
a Pide Ante, Vol. II1. p. 409.

VOL. V

435

