OF THE UNITED STATES.

277
1820.
Mandeville
V.

(C6dzm

LAw.)

MANDEVILLE V. WELCH.
Bills of exchange and negotiable promissory notes, are distinguishe&
from all other parol contracts by the circumstance that they are
prinmafacie evidence of valuable consideration, both between the
original parties, and against third persons.
Where a chose in action is assigned by the owner, he cannot interfere
to defeat the rights of the assignee in the prosecution of a suit brought.
to enfor e thbse rights.
It makeelniodifl'eience, inthis respect, whether the assignment be good
*t law, or in equity,

But this doctrine only app!ies to cases where the entire chose in action
has been assigned, and'not tp a partial assignment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Co-

lumbia. Thig ias an action of covenant brought
-by the lNintiff,.Jaines Welch, for the use of Allen
Prior," gainst the def&idant Mandeville, one of the
:firnl of Mafideville & Jamesson, for the breach of
certain articles of agremehent setforth in the declaration." Severi': pfefs were pteded'by the defendant;
but :as the 6pinibn of this Cdurt turned altogethdr
upon the fourth set of pldidings, on which issue
was joined, arid at thtrial a bill of exceptions taken,
-it is ',Onhiessary to state the-other pleadings.
. The f'urth plea dIleged a release of the cause of
ation by the .-Pitintiff before the commencement of
t10 presbnt s'uit. The plaintiff replied, in substance.
that Welch being ind6lited to Allen Prior, in a sum
exceeding 8,707 dollars and 9 cents, and Mandeville

Welch.

278

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
Mandeville

V.

Welch.

& Jamessdn being indebted to Welch by virtue of thecovenant in the declaration mentioned, in the same
sum of 8,707 dollars and 9 cents, Welch did, in
the year 1799, appropriate, assign, and transfer to
Prior, by a good and sufficient assignment in equity,
the same debt due by reason of the same covenant,
of which appropriation and assignment to the use
and benefit of Prior, Mandeville, afterwards, in 1799,
had notice ; that the present suit was brought for the
sole use and benefit of Prior, and Mandeville, at its
commencement, had notice thereof, and- knew the
same suit was depending for the use and benefit of
Prior at the date of the pretended release; that the
release was obtained without the knowledge, consent,
of approbation of Prior, or of'his attorney in Court;
and that Welch had no authority from Prior or his
attorney, to execute the release, which was known
to Mandeville at the time of the release-; and that
the release was made with the intett to defraud Prior,
and to deprive him of the benefit of this suit. To
this replication there was a rejoinder and issue, upon
which the parties went to trial.
At the trial, the plaintiff, to prove that Welch did
transfer and assign to Prior, by a good and sufficient assignmentin equity, the debt in the replication mentioned, gave in evidence to the jury the articles of agreement in the declaration mentioned, and sundry endorsements of payments thereon, and a memorandum
also thereon, dated the 1st of January, 1798, and
signed by Welch, stating that there then remained
owing to him, on the articles payable at the timeg
1herpin mentioned, the sum of 8,707 dollars and 9

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cents.

The plaintiff further offered three bills of.

exchange drawn by Welch i in favour of Prior, upon.

Z,79
1820.
Mandeville

v.
Mandeville and Jamesson, dated on the 7th of SepWeIc6.
Prior
to
payable
dollars,
tember, 1799, each for 2,500
or his order: one on the 24th of November, 1800,
another on the same day and month, 1801, and the
third on the same day and month, 18Q3, being the
respective times at which certain instalments for like
sums would become due on the articles of agreemeat stated in the declaration. Each of these bills
purported to be " for value received" of Prior, and
were directed to be charged "1to account as advised."
The plaintiff farther offered in evidence to the jury
an account rendpred to Welch by Mandeville 4
Jamesson, dated the 31st of January, 1798, statini.
the -balance of 8J707 dollars and 9 cents, due to
Welch, and payable by instalments in the manner
mentioned in the articles of agreement; and proved
that this account had been delivered to Prior by
Welch.
The defendant then gave in evidence the bill and
proceedings in a suit in Chancery in Fairfax county, by Prior, against Welch & Mandeville & Jamesson, (excepting the answers of the latter,) which
suit was brought to recover the amount of the three
bills of exchange from Mandeville & Jamesson, as
debtors- of Welch, -and was discontinued by the
plaintiffi, Prior, after the answer of Welch had come
in, denying that Prior was owner of the bills, and
asserting that Prior held- them merely- as his agent,
and for his use. And the deiendant further proved,
that Welch had never authorized the present suit to

280
1820.
Mandeville

v.

Welch.

CASES IN TIE SUPREDIE COURT

be brought, unless- the circumstances above stated
would have given Prior authority to institute the
"same.
The defendant then prayed the Court to instruct
the jury, that if from the evidence so given, they
should be of opinion, that the sums for which the
bills were drawn amounted to less than the sums payable by Mandeville & Jainesson to Welch, under
-the covenant, and were known to be less by Welch,
then Prior is not such an assignee of the covenant
as would authorize him to sustain this suit in the name
of Welch. Which instruction the Court gave; but
further instructed the jury, that-if they should be of
opinion, from the evidence, that the bills were drawn
-for the full and valuable consideration expressed on
the face of them, paid by Prior to Welch, and if there
-was no other evidence than what is before stated,
they ought to infer from the evidence, that Prior was,
and is such an assignee .ofthe right of .action upon
the covenant as authorized him to sustain this action
in the name of Welch's administrator (Welch -having
(lied pending the proceedings, and his administrator
having been made party to the suit) for the whole
debt due by the covenant at the time of Welch's delivering the account above stated to Prior; and further, that the bills were primafacie evidence of such
value having been paid by Prior to Welsh. The
jury found a verdict for the plaintiff under this instruction; and the cause was brought before this
Court by a writ of error, to revise this among other
supposed errors assigned upon the record.

Uk Tfl-

U IN±"I D S'i.Al !.

belngprimafacieevidence of an equivalent advance

1820.

by Prior, the possession by him of the articles of Mandeille

agreement, and the delivery to him of the account
a legal presigned byMandeville & Jamisson, furnish
sumption that both were delivered as security for the
payment of tht advance. He thus acquired a lien
on them similar to that acquired by the delivery of
title deeds as security for a debt, which lien has always been deemed by Courts of Equity equivalent
to a mortgage., So, also, the deposit of a note or
bill, as security for a debt, entitles the creditor to
enforce his lien in equity.' But supposing this position not to be correct, still it is contended, that there
was here a partial lien or appropriation of the debt
due from Mandeville & Jamnsson under the articles,
to the extent of the sums due on the bills, which is.
sufficient to authorize Prior to maintain this action.
The drawing of a bill of exchange is, in itself, an
assignment by the drawer to the payee of the money
due from the drawee. The acceptance is not necessaiy to make the assignment complete, but only to
give an action against the drawee in the name of the
payee.0 In the case of Clark v. Adair, cited by Mr.
Justice Buller in Masters v. Miller," it was determined
a Sweas v. Camelford, 1 Fez. Tun. 235. Walwyn v. Sheppard's Assignees, 4 Yes. 119. Jones v. Gibbons, 9 Ves. 411.
Ex.parte Langston, Rose's Rep. 2;6. Russel v. Russel, I Bro.
Ch. Cos. 269.

b Exparte Crossbey, 3 Bro. Ch. Cas. 237.
I Atk. 148.
c Gibson v. Minet,. I H. Bl. 669. 602.
3 T. R. 174.
d 4 T. R. 343.

Ex parte Byas,

Tatlock v. Harris,

V.

282

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
andevfle

V.

Welch.

that an unaccepted bill was such an assignment as
entitled the payee to the money. In Yeatesv.. Gwei
an order
- to
. pay •out. of a. particular fuad,.thoughnot
accepted, was considered such a transfer as to prevent th6 assignee of the party who became bankrupt
after drawing the -order, from claiming the fund on
which the order was drawn.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of -the
Court. Twoiqueslons arise upon theanstruction to
the jury: .L Whether the bills were primafadeeviddnce that value had been paid :formthem by Prior to
Welch? 2. -Whether,under-all the circumstances of
the case, Prior was an assignee in :dquity-entitled -to
maintain the piresent actin?
.
BillsandneUpon.the
first
-point,
weamre
6f
gotiabl notsA
ii
y opiionthit
i
C o r b l the
w
evidence 7-of law was.correctly laid ddwn 'by ,The"Cevbelow.
ereceived,.
both between The argdmeht-of the d feddaltus cqwseL- hdmits,
teoigs
al-that where a bill imposon its'face to be for value
tbird p.sons, received," it is primaface "evidence of ihat fact beMtarc& 71h.

,-tweon the original parties ;-.:bit it is stat,. that-it-is
not evidence of the fact; aganstkuird-prsons. We
know of no such'distititicin.
nall-.ase Whme.tbe
bill, can be used as evidence either agaihst. thl.parties, or against third persons, the same legal presuimption arises 6f its hdibg bin"dieii fof value
received, as exists in relation to a d..e"d"xpressed to
be given for a valuable consideration. -k.I this respect, bills of exchange, and negotiable -notes, are
I Vez. Jun. 280.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

28:3

distinguished from all other parol contracts, by au- 182o.
thorities which are not now to be qjuestioned.a
V.
The other question requires more consideration, Welch.
though it does not in our judgment present any inhoein
a asossgu
• ofThe
action
that
settled,
since
long
been
trinsic difficulty. It has
interferecaninot
in a
brought
suitthe assignee
where a chose in action is assigned by the owner, by
he shall not be permitted fraudulently to interfere bs
o to dea
and defeat the rights of the assignee in the prosecution of any suit to enforce those rights. And it has
niot been deemed to make any diffierence whether
the assignment be good at law, or in equity only.
This.doctrine was fully recognized -by this Court
when this case was formerly before us.' It was
then applied to a case, where the whole 'chose in ac•'fion was alleged to have been assigned ; and it was
certainly then supposed that the "doctrine in Courts
of law had never been pressed to a greater extent.
We are now called upon to'press it still farther, so as
.to embrace cases of partial assignments of choses in
action.
It is contended on behalf of the plaintiff, in the
lirst plaeethat thefacts of this case establish by le.gal inference, that -the articles- of agreement were
.entirely assigned in equity 'to the plaintiff. If this
-ground -fails,'it -is in 'the next place contended, that
an assignment -Was made of the debt due by the articles to the -extent-of 7,5OO dollars, the amount of
the bills drawn on Mandeville & Jamesson, and that
a Chitty on Bills. (2d edit.) 12. 62. 1 Wils. Rep. 189. Bvrr..
1516. Salk. 25. 1 Bos. . Pull. 651.
b Welch v. Mandeville, I Whcat. Rep. 235

284

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

this, per se, authorizes Prior to sustain the present
action.

1820.

%
Mandeville

In support of the first position, it is argued, that
Equitable
mortgage
cre- the bills being primafacie evidence of an equivalent
advance made by Prior, the possession by the latter
ortg a d_eV.

poeso

title

o

ge

n,

tet

deeds, of the articles of agreement,and the delivery to him of
the account signed by Mandeville & Jamesson, afford
a legal presumption that the articles and account
were delivered to him as security for the payment
of such advance, and thereby he acquired a lien on
them like that acqupiredby th6 delivery of title deeds
as security for a debt, which lien has always been
deemed to be equivalent to an equitable mortgage.
It may be admitted, that according to the course of
the authorities in England, and as applicable to the
state of laud titles there, a deposit of title deeds
does, in the ca'ses alluded to, create a lien, which will.
be recognized as an equitable mortgage, and will
entitle the party to call for an assignment of the property included in the title deeds. It may also be
admitted, that a deposit of a note not negotiable, as
security for a debt, will entitle the creditor, after
notice to the maker, to enforce in equity his lien
against the depositor, and his assignees in bankruptcy. Such was the case cited at the bar from Atkyn's
Reports." But in cases of this nature, the doctrine
proceeds upon the supposition, that the deposit is
elearly-established to have been made as security for
the debt; and not upon the ground that the mere
fact of a deposit unexplained affords such proof In
a Ex parte Byes, 1 Atk. 148.

OF THE UNITED STATES

the case at the bar, it was not proved that the articles
were delivered by Welch to Prior at all, much less
that they were delivered as security for the bills.
an equivoThe delivery of the account is certainly
cal act, and might have been as a voucher of the
right of Welch to draw on Mandeville & Jamesson.
There is this farther deficiency in the proof, that the
bills do not appear ever to have been presented to
the drawees for acceptance, which not only rebuts
the presumption from.the face of the bills that they
were received for value, since a bona fide holder
could not be supposed guilty of such fatal laches ;
but draws after it the auxiliary presumption, that
they were in the hands of Prio.r, as agent, and, therefore, that he, had not any assignment of the articles
as. security. And it may be added, that the suit
.commenced., in Chancery by Prior, for this very debt,
and, afterwards, discontinued, does not assert any
assigned title in himself, but. proceeds against Mandeville &. Jamesson, as the mere debtors of Welch.
Under such circumstances, this Court cannot say
that the instruction of the Circuit Courtwas correct,
that the jury ought to infer, that Prior was an assignee, entitled to sue for the whole debt due upon

285
82o.
Maeville

Y

the articles.
'The ground, then, that there was a deposit of the Abillof ex.
articles as collateral security, failing, we are next led chsigoret 'to
to examine the position of the defendant's counsel, the aehtd
from the
to the
that there was a partiialIlien or appropriation of the drw-e
drawer.
arthe
debt due from Mandeville & Jamesson, under
ticles to the extent of the sum due on the bills,
which is equivalent to an equitable assignment of s9

'285

CASES IN THE SUTREIME COURT

182W.

Mandeville

V.

Welch.

much of the debt. It is said, that a bill of exchange
of
s in theory, an assignment to the payee of a debt
due from the drawee to the drawer. This is undoubtedly true, where the bill has been accepted,

whether it be drawn on general funds, or a specific
fund, and whether the bill be in its own nature negotiable or not; for in such a case, the acceptor, by
his assent, binds, and appropriated the funds for the
use of the payee. And to this effect are the authorities cited at the bar.6 In cases also where an order
is drawn for the whole of a particular fund, it amounts
to an equitable assignment of that fund, and after
notice to the drawee it binds the fund in his hand.
on a general,
rinit
eiple does not But where the order is drawn either
it does not
only,
a
part
for
oassign-. or a particular fund,
ly P.
_p
tiat
inent

fund.

of the

amount to an assignment of that part, or give a lien

as against the drawee, unless he consent to the appropriation by an acceptance of the draft; or an obli-

gation to accept may be fairly implied from the custom of trade, or the course of business between the
parties as a part of their contract. The reason of
this principle is plain. A creditor shall not be permitted to split up a single cause of action into many
actions, without the assent of his debtor, since it
may subject him to many embarrassments and responsibilities not contemplated in his original contract. He has a right to stand upon the singleness
of his original contract, and to decline any legal or
equitable assignments by which it may be broken
a Yeates v. Groves, I Ves. jun. 280. Gibson v. Minet, per

Eyre, C. J. 1 H. B1. 569. 602.
•1'.

Tatlock v. Harris, 3 Ti R.

OF f1TIE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Swann, and Mr. Taylor, for the plaintiffs in 1820.
error, argued, 1. That the Court below erred in its M andeville
v.
instruction to thejury that the words 11 value receivWelch.
Jamesson,
&S
Mandeville
against
ed" were evidence
)7Earth 3d.
that money had been actually paid by Prior t6 Welch,
or the bills. They do not claim under the bills, nor
under Welch as the drawer. They claim as assignees of the fund on which the bills were drawn;
In the case of Evans v. Beatty,4 Lord Ellenborough
held, that on a guaranty to pay for goods sold to a
third person, the declarations of the latter were not
evidence to charge the person giving the guaranty;
because there might b6 collusion between the third
person and the plaintiff. So in this case, if the defendant proved an assignment to him, Welch's declaration that he had previously assigned to the plaintiff, would not be admissible, and his declaration iu
writing cannot have any greater effect. 2. It Was not
the intention of Welch, and of Prior, that the whole
covenant should be assigned, nor does the law imply
such an assignment. The bills are general, not payable out of any particular fund, and there is no proof
of any agreement between Welch and Prior, that the
latter should have a lien on the funds in the hands of
Mandeville & Jamesson. The legal consequence
of the decision of the Court below is, that the
drawing of a bill of exchange amounts, per se, to
an assignment in law of the funds of the drawer in
the hands of the drawee, so as to authorize a suit in
the name of the drawer, without his consent, against
a 5 Esp.
Vo.

V,

".-P.C. 26
9

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1820.
MaIndeville

V..
Wech.

the drawee, and when recourse might be had to the
former. There is no case to support the idea that
the drawing of a bill under any circumstances, will
amount to an assignment at law. Cases, indeed,
have occurred, where, under peculiar circumstances,
a Court of Equity has considered the drawing of a
bill as giving to the payee a superior claim or equitable lien. Thus, in the case of Yeates v. Groves,"
the creditor surrendered a security he held, under
an express agreement that he should be paid out of
the money to arise from a particular specified fund,
on which the bill was drawn, and the drawer became
bankrupt. But the proposition, that the drawing of
a bill on a specific fund would, per se, have created
such a lien; is repelled by Lord Thurlow. It would
be highly impolitic to consider the drawing of a bill,
under any circumstances, as amounting to an assignment, or creating a lien, in a Court of law.
These questions generally arise on the bankruptcy
of the drawer. His general creditors have an interest, and ought to be heard. They cannot be made
parties to a suit at law.
Mr. Jones and Mr. Lee, contra, insisted, 1. That
bills and negotiable notes expressing upon their face
" value received," are evidence of that fact, both as
between the original parties, and against third persons. 2. The facts and circumstances of the case
establish by legal 'tnference, that the articles of agreemeot were wholly assigned in equity. The bills
a 1 Vez. Tun. 280.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

into:fragments.

When he undek4akes Xo pay an ii-

82o.

tegral-sum to 4%iscreditor, it is:no part ofhis contract Mdv
Mandeville

that h
l be ohliged to "[iay in fractions.-to -any
other rparsohs. -So that if the plaintiffcould show a .Weloh.
partial assignment to the extent of the bills, .it-would
-,otIavait-:him. in support of -the.piesent suit. But,
ii -the ,presebt case, there is no proof of any presentment of -the bills, much less of any acceptance
'bythe 'defendant to -establish even a partial -asignment df-the debt. And-if there were, itwouldstill be
"necess.ary to show that-there Was an assignment -of
,the a.rtidle asan, attendant -seeurity,-before the plaintiff-ould :found -his action upon -them. Indeed, --by
the-very ,r s.of 'the-pleadings,-the- plaintiff undertike
estdblish an -asgignment of -the-whole debt
,due'by -the articles; -and-if he fiils in this, 'there is
-an exid*0 his -recovery. -So-that,-in whatever -viewwe
clntimplatethe .-facts of
case, or the law -applicable- tb it, 'the -'laintiffihas not shown any -sufficient
•tte!6 stain -his replication-to -the-fourth plea.
Severafi theirobjeCtins have 'been taken -at -the
bar-to 'the plaintiff's-right of recoV'ery,, which--under
other circumstances would have deserved - serious
consideration; but, as upon the merits of the case, as
they are apparent upon the record, the judgment of
this Court is decidedly against the plaintiff; it is unnecessary to give any opinion upon those objections.
-this

Judgment reversed.
JUDGMENT.
VOL. V.

This cause came on to be heard on
.37

;290

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.
Mandeville

V'.
Welch.

the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for
the District of Columbia in the county of Alexandria, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, this Court is of opinion that the said Circuit Court erred in instructing the jury, "that if
they should be of opinion, fiom the evidence, that the
said bills were drawn for the full and valuable consideration expressed on the face of them, paid by the
said Prior to the said Welch, and if there be no other
evidence than what is herein before stated, they ought
to infer from the said evidence, that the said Prior
was, and is such an assignee of the right of action
upon the covenant .aforesaid, as authorizes him to
sustain the action in the name of the said Welch's
administrator for the whole debt due by the said covenant, at the time of the said Welch's delivering
the said account to the said Prior." It is, therefore,
ADJUDGED AND

ORDERED,

that the judgment of the

said Circuit Court in this case be, and the same is
hereby reversed and annulled. And it is further
ORDERED,

that the said cause be remanded to the

the said Circuit Court, with directions to issue a. venirefacias de novo.

