OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820;
Polk's Leos

(L o oAz LAw.)

see

et al.
PoiL s LESSEE v. WENDELL

Wendell.

V.

There are cases in which a grant is absolutely void; as where the State
has no title to the thing granted, or where the officer had no authority to issue the grant, c: In such cases, the validity of the grant
is necessarily examinable at law.
A grant raises a presumption that every prerequisite to its issuing was
coibplied with, and a warrant is evidence of the existence
of an entry; but where the entry has never in fact been made, and the warrant is forged, zo right accrues under the act of North Carolina of
1777, and the g.ant is void.
Where a party, in order to prove that there were no entries to authorize the issuing of the warrants, offered to give in evidence certified
copies of warrants from the same office, of the same dates and numbers, but to different persons, and for different quantities of lands:
Held, that this was competent evidence to' prove the positive fact of
the existence of the entrios specified in the copies; but tlat in order
to have a negative 'effect in disproving the entries alleged to be spurious, the whole abstract ought to.be produced in Court, orinspected under 'acommission, or the keeper of the document examined as
a witness, from vhio' the Court might ascertain the fact of the'nonexistence of the contested entries.
In such a casq certificates from the Secretary's office of North Carolina, introduced to prove that on the entries of the same dates with
those alleged to be spurious, other warrants issued, and other grants
were obtained in the name of various individuals, brit none to the
party claiming under the alleged spurious entries, is competent circum.stantial eyvdence to be left to the jury. In such a case, parol
evidenee, that the warrants and locations had been rejected by the
entry-taker as spurious, is inadmissible.
It sems, that, whether a grant be absolutely void, or voidable only, a
junior grantee is not, by the law of Tennessee, permitted to avail
himself of its nullity as against an innocent purchaser without no-.

tice.

to the Circuit Court of Wdst Tennessee.
This was an action of ejectment, for five thousaRd
ERROR

2ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

294
1820.
Polk's Les-

see
V.

Wendell.

acres of land, in the State of Tennessee, granted by
the Governor of North Carolina, to Polk, the lessor
of the plaintif on the 6th of May, 1800, on a warrant
from John Armstrong's office, dated May 25th, 1784.
The defendants, who were proved to be in possession of part of this tract, claimed title under a grant
from the Governor of North Carolina to John Seveir, for twenty-five thousand and sixty acres, bearing date on the 28th of August, 1795. This grant
appears by the annexed certificate of survey to be
founded on forty land warrants of six hundred and
forty acres each, numbered from 1634 to 1676, and
surveyed in one entire tract. The land in dispute
was proved to lie within the lines of Seveir's grant.

The plaintiff having proved that John Carter was
entry-taker of Washington county until February
28th, 1780, and that Landon Carter was then appointed, offered in evidence an office copy of an
abstract (marked K. in the transcript) of the warrants, on which Seveir's survey and grant were

founded ; the original book of entries being destroyed. From this copy it appeared, that all the warrants were issued from the Washington county office,
in April or May, 1780, to the surveyor of Sullivan
county, and purported to be founded on entries which
bore date on tile 16th of September, 1779. They
were all signed "Landon Carter, Entry-taker."
He also produced, and offered to give in evidence,
office copies of warrants from the same office,
(marked H. and L. in the transcript,) of the same
dates and numbers, but to different persons, and for
different quantities of land. These warrants ap-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

peared to be issued by John Carter; and were of- 18-o.
fered, 'like Seveir's warrants, for the purpose of Polk's Lessee
showing that .the latter were spurious, and, consequentlyi that Seveir's grant was void. The plaintiff Wvdell.
also offered in evidence a grant to Seveir for 32,000
acres, dated. 27th of November, 1795, which purported to be founded on thirty-six warrants, all of
them except the two first on alleged entries, dated
on the same 16th Of September, 1779. He als6 of-fered to prove, that the two first warrants had been
^satisfied by prior grants, and in respect to the others,
.that warrants for the same numbers issued .to other
pdrsonsand were recognised in the abstract of Carter's
entry book, but noneof.Sev.eir's, The plaintiff also
offered to prove, .that the warrants and locations of
.Seveir. had been insinuated, in 1794 or 1795, into
. the entry taker's office without his knowledge; that
they were rejected by the entry-taker as spurious.;
and that the locations were in Seyeir's hand-writing.
The plaintiff also offered to give in evidence a report
to the legislature of Tennessee,. of November 8th,
1803, declaring all Seveir's warrants to be fraudulent
fabrications. All this testimony was overruled and
-rejected by the Court, to which the plaintiff excepted. A verdict*was taken, and'judgment rendered for
-the defendants, anid the cause was brought by writ of
. error to this Court.
1grcf
Tat.
Mr. Harper,and Mr. .Gaston, for the plaintiff, ar*gued, 1. That it was competent for the plaintiff to
.show, that no entries had been made in the land office of North Carolina, and that, therefore, the Governor had no.power to issue the grant. *The act
of 1777, e. 1. s. 3. makes the entry the first esmenfiat

djASES -IN THE SUPREME COURT

1820.

2Pos-

see
V.

Wendell.

and indispensable .requisite to obtaining tide4t
"a
vacant land. The bth section points out the .differnmce
-between location, .entry, and -warrant. The ealmies
are the foundatiorn:of the claim, and are all to'be
numbered in the order in which they are-made. The
9th section declares .every right obtained in any
other manner, 4"utterly void." This seotion follows
the -directions in regard to :the entry, and :makes a
valid entry the one 1hing needful. In the -construetion of this statute, it.has ,been setfed inthe~ours
of North Carlina,thatno legal title ,is created -until
-the grant; and that theiekder grantt :hough founded
on a junior -entry, is,.at law,:to be prefered toa .junior-grant on -an elder. title ; -that an equitable interest is.acquired 'by the first entry,-,which-is -to- be en-forced as other iequitable 4ites are-enforced. -It is
also setled,-that when a -gtant 'issues; -it :furnishes
stfufieient ptimafacie.eidence,.that all. the -piereqnisites -6f the law -have been. etimplied 'with.; and ,that
it cannot ,be -avoided by showing -irregtlariti'es in the
-conduct -of the officers who -superintendedthe proof the claim :from -the-entry to thegrant. There
have been loose .dieta,'unsatisfactory and -inconclasime -reasonings, from whieh.other inferences ,hnge
-been drawn: But -itis-denied, that it ever was law
in North Carolina, ,that a -grant should :be-good if- it
could be clearly shown that it was-not.fotded on
an entry, hut was wholly 'fraudul eat. -It.would have
been impossible to pronounce such a decision without a violation of the plain, strong words ofthe 9th
section of the act, " shall :be deem4 ,.and -are hereby declared utterly void." Such a decision too,
-gress

OF THE UNITED STATES.

297

1s2o.
would have beln inconsistent with the first princiPoik's
Lesbeing
the
object
of
common
lah,,
fraud
ple's or the
see
every
its peculiar abhorrence, and contaminating
act.a Courts of common law have a concurrent Wendell.
jurisdiction with Courts of Equity, in all cases of
frauds.b It is' impossible that a grant, begun and
fraud, where there has been no claim enended in"
tered, nor purchase made from the State, should be
valid.- If, however, a doubt could exist in the case
of a grant issuing before the year 1789, assuredly
-none can be entertained on a grant made by the governor of North Carolina since the cession of the
'territory, which now forms the State of Tennessee,
-tothe United States. By the act of cession, the sd-vereignty and domain are relinquished by North Carolina, and a mere ministerial power is reserved to
the -Governor of that State to perfect grants, "where
entries have been made agreeably to law, and the
titles not -perfected." The State has no longer authority to dispose of the lands. She is no longer their
proprietor. The Governor has a mere flaked power,
unconnected with an interest, to make grants where
entries have been previously made. A grant issued
where no entry has been made, is an act wholly unsupported by the power, and cannot possibly transfer
at interest. The whole question has, in fact, been
already settled by the reasoning and decision of this
Court, when this case was formerly before it.c
a Fermor's case, 3 Co. Rep. 77.
b 3 Bl. Com. 431. Bates v. Graves, 2 Fes.jun. 295. 8 V'es.
jun. 283. Arthur Legat's case, 10 Co. Rep. 109.
c 9 Cranch, 87.
t88
VoL V

298

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

s2o. 2. The evidence offered by the plaintiff was proper
.. ...,..bw
Polk's Les- in itself, and relevant to show, that no entries had
se.
been made, prior to the cession, authorizing the GoWendell. vernor of North Carolina to make a grant to Sevier.
The best evidence was offered of the pretended warrant on which his grant was founded, and, also, to
show, that other warrants existed of precisely the
same numbers. This alone raised a presumption,
that one or the other must have been spurious. According to the act of 1777, c. 1. s. 5. there could not
possibly be two sets of entries of the same numbers,
without the most extraordinary negligence. This
testimony ought to have gone to thejury, even if there
had been no other. It should have been left to them
to decide which of the two sets of warrants was spurious under the peculiar circumstances of the case.
But it was supported by corroborating evidence of
great weight; by the abstract of Carter's entries.
The competency of this evidence may be maintained
both on the ground of common law principles, and
on special enactments of the local legislature. It is
the best which the nature of the case admits of.
Works compiled by authority and order of the government of the country, on public occasions, and on
subjects of public interest, are recognized as authentic documents in courts of justice, and admitted as
evidence in matters of private right. Such are, in
England, the celebrated Doomsday Book; the Survey of the King's Ports; the Valor Beneficioruin;a
copies of Surveys of Church and Crown Lands:
a Gilb. Law of Evid. 69.

Phillips on Evid. 303, 301.

299

OF THE UNITED STATES.

kept in unsuspected repositories.a The day book of
a prison, containing a narrative of the transactions
there,. is proof of the tine of a prisoner's commitment.b So, terriers are evidence of manorial boundaries, either when found in the regular repositories,
or in places where the custody can be satisfactorily
explained.c But, in this case, there are positive statutes of the legislature of Tennessee, by which this
book of entries and copies from it are made evidence.' In addition to all this, was the parol evidence. The introdjuction of these locations and
warrants into the office in 1795, in a secret manner,
betrayed a consciousness that they had not before
existed there. This accumulation of proof fully es:
tablished the plaintiff's allegation ; or, at all events,
it had a tendency to establish it, and its sufficiency
ought to have been left to the jury. As to the legislative report ; there is some reason to believe, that
the legislature of Tennessee intended, by their act
of 1807, c. 82., to make it evidence. At least it
might have been proper evidence to bring home notice to the defendants, prior to their purchase.
The Attorney General, and Mr. Williams, contra,
insisted, 1. That the proceedings on which a grant
issues, are to be presumed to be correct. They constitute a question between the State and the giantee
a Phillips,304. 11 East, 234. 1 M]aul: 4- elw. 294.
b King v. Aikley, cited Phillip, 313.
c Phillips, 316, 317.
d. Laws of Tenn. 261.

182o.

"
see
V.

Wendell.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

only. Between private parties, evidence dehors the
ptn
Polk's Les- patent
isswowholly inadmissible at law.a 2. The tessee
timony offered in this case was clearly inadmissible
WendH. upon the principles of the former decision of this
Court ; in .hich, it may be added, that the Court has
gone farther than the local Courts in permitting inquiries into facts occurring prior to the issuing of a
grant." The Court below gave no opinion upon any
specific evidence, but on the general question, and
rejected the whole testimony, which was offered to
prove that the warrants were forged. But in order
to prove this, the production of ihe warrants was indispensable, and no inferior proof ought to have been
received. The abstract is defective, because it is only
of a part of a record, when it ought to be of the
whole, and so certified. It is. a part only of a copy
of a copy. The attempt to infer the spuriousness
of the warrants from the identity of the -numbers,
was justly repelled, because the same numbers are often given to many warrants, and it can seldom be
shown on what entry the grant issued. The report
of the-select committee, of the legislature was also
inadmissible as evidence ; both because there is no
proof that it was ever acted on by the house, and because the State of Tennessee had, at the time, no authority over the lands, North Carolina having retained the right of completing titles originating before
the cession. 3. But, even supposing the grant under
1s20.

a Spalding v. Reeder, Marfyl. Rep. 187. 1 Hay,. 108. Id.
135. Id. 359. Id. 4.D7 3 Ha'. 215. 1 Tenn. Rep. 318
2 Tenn. Rep. 25. Id. 47.
6 9 Cranch, 98.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1820.
which the defendants claim t have been fraudulentbona
are
as
they
ly obtained by the original grantees,
PoIl's Les,e
fide purchasers without notice, they are entitled to the
protection of the Court.a The Courts of Tennessee Wendell.
have established the doctrine, that even in the case
of a void grant, a junior grantee shall not avail himself of its nullity as against an innocent purchaser

without notice.'

Mr. Justice JOHNsoN delivered the opinion of the MAarch 91h.
Court. Both these titles are founded on what are
called removed warrants, and priority of entry is
altogether immaterial to the issue. But the existence of an entry, it is contended on behalf of the plaintiff, is indispensable to the issuing of a warrant of
survey, and to the validity of grants, which ought by
law to have -their origin in such entries. With a
view, therefore, to impeach the prior grant to Sevier,
under which these defendants claim, the plaintiff
proposes to prove, that there never were in fact any
entries made to justify the issuing of the warrants
under which their title had its inception. It has been
also suggested, that his intention further was to
prove the warrants themselves forgeries. But this
does not appear from the bill of exceptions, as will
be more particularly shown when we come to analyze it, with a view of determining what evidence
appears to have been rejected in the Circuit
Court.
a Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 133.
h, Miller v. Holt, I Tenn. Rep. 111.

CASES IN THP SUPREME COURT

302
1820.

Polk's Les-

see

Wendell.

Anto.it,
.cal
deci ionsrf
upon
S

The evidence offered in the Court below, with a
view to invalidating Sevier's grant, was rejected,
Court one
n th
wrt oof errr
this Cortonegeneral
error tto ths
thendwrit
and ongee
question arises, whether any, and if any, what evidence of facts, prior to the issuing of a grant, shall
be received to invalidate it ?
When the case was before this Court, in the year

1815, the same question was brought to its notice,
law:
'e

proper.

IT in tir and received its most earnest and anxious attention.

Lonig experience had satisfied the mind of every.
member of the Court, of the glaring impolicy of ever
admitting an inquiry beyond the dates of the grants
under which lands are claimed. But the peculiar
situation of Kentucky and Tennessee, with relation
4o the parent States of Virginia and North Carolina,
and the statutory provisions and course of decisions
that have grown out of that relation, has imposed
upon this Court the necessity of pursuing a course
which nothing but necessity could have reconciled
to its ideas of law or policy. The sole object for
yhich jurisdiction of cases, between citizens of different states, is vested in the Courts of the United
States, is to secure to all the administration of justice, upon the same principles on which it is administered between citizens of the same State. Hence,
this Court has never hesitated to conform to the
settled doctrines of the States on landed property,
where they are fixed, and can be satisfactorily ascertained ; nor would it ever be led to deviate from
them, in any case that bore the semblance of imparof
Decisio
Court, S.
1his

tial justice.

c., 9 cna

It has been supposed, that in the former decision

with the pre.

alluded to in this case, this Court has gone beyond

87, reconciled
tent case

OF THE UNITED STATES.

305

182o.
the decisions of the Courts of Tennessee, in opening
the door to inquiries into circumstances occurring Polk's Lessee
prior to the issuing of a grant.
V.
An attentive perusal of that decision will detect the Wcud..
error; or prove, if it has done so, it has done it oR
principles that cannot be controverted.
It is obvious from the report of the decision, that
it was at that time presented under an aspect somewhat different from that in which it now appears.
The forgery of the warrants constituted a part of the
case which the plaintiff was precluded from making
out in evidence. And to collect the purport of the
decision, at that time rendered, the best resort will be
to the words in which it is delivered.
Two sentences will give the substance of that decision. They are expressed in the following words.
C, But there are cases in which a grant is absolutely
void; as where the State has no title to the thing
granted, or where the officer had no authority to issue
the grant. In such cases, the validity of the grant is
necessarily examinable at law." And "If, as the
plaintiff offered to prove, the entries were never
made, and the warrants were forgeries, then no right
accrued under the act of 1777 ; no purchase of the
land was made from the State ; and independentof the
act of cession to the United States, the grant is void
by the express words of the law."
These two sentences comprise the substance of
that decision. For, as to the doubts expressed in the
last paragraph of the opinion, relative to the inception of a right in the ceded territory prior to the cession, it is but a doubt, and is remved by a reference

804

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

to the 6th section of the act of 1784. As to the
polk's Les- question what evidence shall be sufficient to prove
see
the existence of the entry, the Court is silent. As
V.
Wendell.
to what validity sha!l be given to the grants emanating from North Carolina, the decision places it upon
the statutes of North Carolina. And although an
opinion is expressed that North Carolina could make
no new grants after the cession, who could have entertained a doubt upon that question ? The right
reserved to her was to perfect incipient grants ; but
what restraint is imposed upon her discretion ? or
what doubt suggested of her good faith in executing
that power ?
It will be perceived, that as to irregularitiescommitted by the officers of government prior to the
grant, the Court does not express a doubt but that
the government, and not the individual, must bear
the consequences resulting from them. On the contrary, it declares, that the existence of the grant is,
in itself, a sufficient ground, from which every man
may infer that every prerequisite has been performed.
All, then, that it decides is, that an entry was indispensable as the inception of a title to Sevier; that if an
original grant had issued to him after the cession, or a
title had been perfected where there was no incipient
title before the cession, as in the case of a grant on a
forged warrant, and no entry, that it would be void.
But, in admitting that the grant shall support the
presumption that every prerequisite existed, it necessarily admits, that a warrant shall be evidence of the
existence of an entry. Nor is it by any means con,
clusive to the contrary, that the entry does not appear
1820.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

upon the abstract of entries in Washington county,
recorded in the Secretary's office. On the contrary,
if the warrants issued are signed by the entry-taker,
it is conclusive that the locations were received by
him, and if he omitted to enter them, his neglect

ought not to prejudice the rights of him in whose
favour the warrants were issued.
That an entry is necessary to give validity to these
grants, we think not only perfectly deducible from
the statutory provisions in force in Tennessee, but
also, from the legal adjudications of their Courts.
Nay, they have not'assumed the prhiciple, that the
issuing of the grant shall be deemed a recognfition of
the legal sufficiency of an entry; but have decided a
grant void which emanated from an entry not sanctioned by the statutes of North Carolina, though the
grant was issued when it might have lawfully issued.
(Jackson v. Honeycut, I Tenn. Rep. 30.) And in
the case of Dodson v. Cock and Stewart, so much
relied on in the argument, the legal validity of a
grant is expressly referred to the validity of the entry at the time it was made. (1d. 232.) It would
indeed, be wonderful if it were otherwise, since it is
the acknowledged law of Tennessee, that a prior
entry will give precedence to a junior grant: a
principle which obviously supposes the entry to be of
the essence of the transfer of property ; the grant,
that which gives it palpable existence ; or, at least,
that it holds the freehold in abeyance, ready to vest
upon the contingency of the expected grant.
It has, also, been asserted, that the Courts of the
State of Tennessee have fretuently, and uniformly:
Vor,. V:

305
1820.

Polk's Lessee
Wendell.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

decided directly the reverse of the opinion of the
This assertion has reference to
Polk's Les- Supreme Court.
see
that part of the opinion which declares, that a grant
V.
Wendell, issuing ," without entry, and on forged warrants," is
a void grant. Such an idea could only have resulted
from inattention to the obvious distinction between
the acts of the State's agents or officers, and the impositions practised upon them: between the case of
a right really incipient, and that where no right ever
did exist. How could the State of North Carolina
have been performing an act toward perfecting a
roht, where, by the supposed case, no right could
possibly have existed, no entry ever was made, and the
warrant forgedA new grant, it must be admitted,
she could not have made: but would not this have
been a new -grant? We will respect the decisions
of the State tribunals, but there are limits which no
Court can transcend.
But the Courts of Tennessee have not'so decided.
In the case of Dodson v. Cocke and Stewart, it will
be found that the marginal note of the decision is too
general in its expression, and that the Court decides
nothing but what has been expressly admitted by
this Court, since the legal validity of the entry is
made the very basis of that decision. So of the
case of Sevier .nd Anderson v. Hill, the only point
on which the judges seem to have coincided was,
that no other consideration should be proved than
what, the grant expressed on the ,face of it, (see
the opinion of Judge Humphreys.) If any other
point is decided, it is immaterial to the present question.
1o.

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

This Court disavows having ever decided more
than that an entry, or other legal incipiency of title,
was necessary to the validity of a grant issued by
North Carolina, for lands in Tennessee, after the
separation. They have never expressed an inclination to let in inquiries into the frauds, irregularities,
acts of negligence, or of ignorance of the officers of
government, prior to the issuing of the grant; but, on
the contrary, have expressed the opinion, that the
government must bear the consequences. But while
they admit that a genuine warrant shall be in itself
the evidence of an entry, they cannot yield to the
absurdity of attaching that effect to a forged warrant.
With regard to the decisions of the State of North
Carolina, it is a well known fact, that on the subject
of the effect of entries, the Courts of the two States
are at direct variance. And, singular asit may seem,
opposite constructions of the same laws constitute
rules of decision to their respective Courts. And if
it is the law upon their own citizens, we are willing
to apply the same rules of property to all others.
But even the Courts of that State, in their rigid adherence to the dates and effect of grants, and the
principle that they are not void but voidable, are
sometimes driven to the most awkx'ard shifts in
adjudicating on cases affected by the act of 1777.
Thus, in the Trustees of the University v. Sawyer,
(Taylor's Rep. 114.) they have said, that although
"they cannot declare a grant void, they will adjudge
that the grantee takes nothing under it." And in a
case decided in 1802, (N. CarolinaRep. 441.) they

1820.

'*
see
Wendell.

s

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

have found themselves compelled, under their acts of
-. Les- 1777, 1778, and 1783, to declare a grant absolutely
See
void, on the ground of the invalidity of the entry with
1,
reference to facts that required the intervention of a
Wedell.
jury. So that it would seem even in North Carolina, a valid entry was indispensable to a valid grant.
That priority of ctry would not give priority to a
junior grant, is certainly decided in the case of Williams v. Wells, reported in the Ndrtlt CarolinaLaw
Repository, "383. But even that point, it would
seem, had not been well established as a principle of
law, since the jury in that case, (which is a recent
one,) manifested their dissatisfaction with the charge
of the Court, by finding against it.
There was one point made in the argument of this
Bon f d.,u.S'20.

chaser without

under
notice,
a voi yrant,
;tectr taw
the

Tcnuxtsce.

of

rpnml
case, which, friom its general importance, merits our
serious attention, and which may have entered into
the views of the Circuit Court in making their deei-

Sion. It was, whether, admitting this grant to be
void, innocent purchasers without notice, holding under it, should be affected by its nullity ?
This would seem to depend on the question, whether we shall, as to innocent purchasers, view it as
a void or voidable grant.
On general principles, it is incontestable, that
a grantee can convey no more than he possesses.
Hence, those who came in under the holder of a
void .grant, caa acquire nothing. But it is clear
that the Courts of.the State of Tennessee have held
otherwise. In Miller v. Holt, (1 Tenn. Rep. 11.)
it is expressly adjudged, that whether a grant be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

void or voidable, a junior grantee shall not avail
himself of its nullity as against ?13
an innocent purchaser without notice. Yet the North Carolina
act of 1777, certainly declares grants, obtained by
fraud, to be absolutely void. And the same result
must follow, where the State has relinquished its
power to grant, or no law exists to support the validity of a grant. But it seems that the Courts of
Tennessee have adopted this distinction, that grants
in such cases shall be deemed void only as against
the State, and not then until adjudged so by some
process of law. That as between individuals, the
title shall be held to vest sub zraodo, and innocent
purchasers, without notice, shall ndt be ousted by
the intervention of a subsequent grantee.
If this be the settled law of Tennessee, we are
satisfied that it should rest on the authority of adjudication. There is certainly a palpable distinctiont
between the cases of an original grantee, and a subsequent purchaser without notice.. There can be no
reason. why the grantee should be favoured by the
leaning of Courts; but the latter, finding the grantee

309J
18i2o.
rolk's Les-

see
V.
Wendell.

in possession of the patent of the State, which on its
face presents nothing to put him on his guard, has
strong claims upon the favour of Courts, and thejustice of the country.
rh~e,cned
Upon analysing the bill of exceptions, it will be rpjected,
how
.r:XLt.
in
prove
to
foupd, that the plaintiff does not propose
express terms, that the warrants in this case were
forgeries. But, with a view to proving that there
were no entries to authorize the issuing of the warrants, he tenders various certified documents from

'CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT -

310
1820.

the several offices of North Carolinaand Tennessee,
which he would raise an inference, that it was

Sfrom

rowks Les-

impossible that such entries could have existed ; and
Wendell. then tenders parol evidence to prove, that the locations on which the warrants purport to have issued
had never been passed to entry, and together with
the warrants and surveys founded upon them had
been rejected by a particular entry-taker, (the successor of him who is supposed to have issued
these -warrants,) on the ground of their being
spurious and invalid. Also, that they had been reported as spurious by a committee of the Tennessee
legislature.
As the exception does not come up, on a misdirection of the Court, but generally on the rejection of
the evidence offered, the only remaining questions
arise on its legal competency.
And, first, we are of opinion, that the document
marked K. in the transcript of the record, was comp6tent evidence to prove the fact of the existence of
th6 entries therein specified, and so far it ought to
have been admitted, because it is expressly made
evidence by the act of the 21st of September, 1801.
But, as far as a negative use was intended to be
made of that abstract, we are of opinion, the certificate of the officer was properly rejected. There is
no such effect given either to that document, or the
clerk's certificate, by any legislative act, and such an
effe'ct could only be given to the production of the
whole abstract, from which the Court might, by inspection, have ascertained the fact of the non-existence of the contested entries; or from an examisee

OF THE UNITED STATES.
182o.
nation of the keeper of that document as an ordinary witness, or inspection of it made under a commis- Pols Les:
see
Sion.
V.
The documents offered, marked H. and L. were Wendell.
numerous certificates from the secretary's office of
North Carolina, of •warrants and grants, introduced
to prove, that on the entries of the dates specified as
the dates of the entries to Sevier, other warrants issued, and other grants were obtained in the name of
various individuals, but none to Sevier. This evidence, also, we are of opinion, was competent circumstantial evidence, and ought not to have been
wholly rejectQd,
With regard to the report of the committee of the
Ihouse, we can hardly think it could have been seriously offered ; and the parol evidence respecting the
rejection by the subsequent entry-taker, was, also,
properly rejected, inasmuch as the rejection of the
return of these warrants and surveys, was a perfectly
immaterial circumstance upon this issue. It might
as well.have been the result of that eitry-taker's
folly; or- his wrong, as -of any other cause. The
emanation of the grant is sufficient evidence that the
claim of Seveir must have met with a more favourable reception from a higher quarter. Upon, the
whole, the only ground on which we could sustain
the decision in the Court below is, that a subsequent
purchaser without notice is not to be affected by any
legal defects in a grant which niight have issued conformably to existing laws. For, in that case, all the
evidence rejected may have been immaterial to the
isue. .Bat, non constr. that the evidence rejected

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

312
1820.
'
Polk's Lessee

V.

was not connected with proof to rebut that defence.
It is, therefore, not necessary here to decide defini-

tively on that point of the law.

If it is the received

doctrine of the Tennessee Courts, we have expressed

our inclination not to shake it. But the cause must
necessarily be sent back upon the rejection of the
documents marked H. K. & L.
Judgment reversed.
This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for
the district of West Tennessee, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, that there is error in the proceedings of the said Circuit Court, in rejecting the
documents marked in the transcript of. the record
with the letters H. K. and L., as incompetent evidence. It is, therefore, ADJUDGED and ORDERED,
that the judgment of the Circuit Court, for the district of West Tennessee, in this case, be, and the
same is hereby, reversed and annulled. And it is
further ordered, that the said cause be remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a
venire facias de noro.
JUDGMENT.

