UNITED STATES v. CALTEX, INC.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. CALTEX (PHILIPPINES),

INC.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 16.

Argued October 20: 1952.-Decided December 8, 1952.

In the circumstances of this case, the wartime destruction of private
property by the Army to prevent its imminent capture and use
by an advancing enemy did not entitle the owner to compensation
under the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 150-156.
(a) Whether or not the principle laid down in United States v.
Pacific R. Co., 120 U. S. 227, was dictum when enunciated, this
Court holds that it is the law today. Pp. 153-154.
(b) Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115, and United States v.
Russell, 13 Wall. 623, distinguished. Pp. 152-153.
(c) A different result is not required by the fact that the Army
exercised "deliberation" in singling out this property, in "requisitioning" it from its owners, and in exercising "control" over it before destroying it, nor by the fact that the destruction was effected
prior to withdrawal. Pp. 154-155.
120 Ct. Cl. 518, 100 F. Supp. 970, reversed.

In a suit to recover compensation under the Fifth
Amendment for property destroyed by the Army in wartime to prevent its use by the enemy, the Court of Claims
gave judgment for the plaintiffs. 120 Ct. Cl. 518, 100 F.
Supp. 970. This Court granted certiorari. 343 U. S.
955. Reversed, p. 156.
Assistant Attorney General Baldridge argued the cause
for the United States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Stern, Robert W. Ginnane, Paul A.
Sweeney and Benjamin Forman.
Albert R. Connelly argued the cause for the Shell Company of Philippine Islands, Ltd. et al., and Leo T. Kissam
for Caltex (Philippines), Inc., respondents. They also
were on a brief for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON

344 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Each of the respondent oil companies owned terminal
facilities in the Pandacan district of Manila at the time
of the Japanese attack upon Pearl Harbor. These were
used to receive, handle and store petroleum products from
incoming ships and to release them for further distribution throughout the Philippine Islands. Wharves, rail
and automotive equipment, pumps, pipe lines, storage
tanks, and warehouses were included in the property on
hand at the outbreak of the war, as well as a normal
supply of petroleum products.
News of the Pearl Harbor attack reached Manila early
in the morning of December 8, 1941. On the same day,
enemy air attacks were mounted against our forces in the
Philippines, and thereafter the enemy launched his
amphibious assault.
On December 12, 1941, the United States Army,
through its Chief Quartermaster, stationed a control
officer at the terminals. Operations continued at respondents' plants, but distribution of the petroleum products for civilian use was severely restricted. A major
share of the existing supplies was requisitioned by the
Army.
The military situation in the Philippines grew worse.
In the face of the Japanese advance, the Commanding
General on December 23, 1941, ordered the withdrawal
of all troops on Luzon to the Bataan Peninsula. On
December 25, 1941, he declared Manila to be an open
city. On that same day, the Chief Engineer on the staff
of the Commanding General addressed to each of the oil
companies letters stating that the Pandacan oil depots
"are requisitioned by the U. S. Army." The letters further stated: "Any action deemed necessary for the destruction of this property will be handled by the U. S.
Army." An engineer in the employ of one of the com-

UNITED STATES v. CALTEX, INC.
149

Opinion of the Court.

panies was commissioned -afirst lieutenant in the Army
Corps of Engineers to.facilitate this design.
On December 26, he received orders to prepare the
facilities-for demolition. On December 27, 1941, while
enemy planes were bombing the area, this officer met with
representatives of the 1companies. The orders of the
Chief Engineer had been transmitted to the companies.
Letters from the Deputy Chief of Staff, by command of
General MacArthur, also had been sent to each of the
oil companies, directing the destruction of all remaining
petroleum products and the vital parts of the plants.
Plans were laid to carry out these instructions, to expedite
the removal of products which might still be of use to
the troops in the field, and to lay, a demolition network
about the terminals. The representatives of Caltex were
given, at their insistence, a penciled receipt for all the
terminal facilities and stocks of Caltex.
At 5:40 p. m., December 31, 1941, while Japanese

troops were entering Manila, Army personnel completed
a successful demolition. All unused petroleum products
were destroyed, .and the facilities were rendered useless
to the enemy. The enemy was deprived of a valuable
logistic weapon.
After the war, respondents demanded compensation for
all of the property which had been used or destroyed by
the Army. The -Government paid for the petroleum
stocks and transportation equipment which were either
used or destroyed by the Army, but it refused to compensate respondents for the destruction of the Pandacan
terminal facilities. Claiming a constitutional right under
the Fifth Amendment' to just compensation for these
terminal facilities, respondents sued in the Court of
Claims. Recovery was allowed. 120 Ct. Cl. 518, 100 F.
1".

. ,nor

shall private property be taken for public use, without

just compensation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

Supp. 970. We granted certiorari to review this judgment. 343 U. S. 955.
As reflected in the findings of the Court of Claims,
there were two rather distinct phases of Army operations
in the Pandacan district in December 1941. While the
military exercised considerable control over the business
operations of respondents' terminals during the period
between December 12 and December 26, there was not,
according to the findings below, an assumption of actual
physical or proprietary dominion over them during this
period.! Bound by these findings, respondents do not
now question the holding of the Court of Claims that
rior to December 27 there was no seizure for which just
compensation must be paid.
Accordingly,. it is the legal significance of the events
that occurred between December 27 and December 31
which concerns us. Respondents concede that the Army
had a right to destroy the installations. But they insist
that the destruction created a right in themselves to exact
fair compensation from the United States for what was
destroyed.
The argument draws heavily from statements by this
Court in Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115 (1852), and
United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623 (1871). We agree
that the opinions lend some support to respondents' view.3
2 At one point shortly after the outbreak of the war, the Army
contemplated leasing respondents' facilities. But this plan was never

put into effect. Respondents continued to operate the plants them3elves up to December 26, 1941.
Inthe Russell case, supra, the Court said, 13 Wall., at 627-628:
"Extraordinary and unforeseen occasions arise, however, beyond all

doubt, in cases of extreme necessity in time of war or of immediate
and impending public danger, in which private property may be
impressed into the' public service, or may be seized and appropriated
to the public use, or may even be destroyed without the consent of
the owner. . . . Exigencies of the kind do arise in time of war or

UNITED STATES v. CALTEX, INC.

153

Opinion of the Court.

149

But the language in those two cases is far broader than
the holdings. Both cases involved equipment which had
been impressed by the Army for subsequent use by the
Army. In neither was the Army's purpose limited, as
it was in this case, to the sole objective of destroying
property of strategic value to prevent the enemy from
using it to wage war the more successfully.
A close reading of the Mitchell and Russell cases shows
that they are not precedent to establish a compensable
taking in. this case. Nor do those cases exhaust all that
has been said by this Court on the subject. In United
States v. Pacific R. Co., 120 U. S. 227 (1887), Mr. Justice
Field, speaking for a unanimous Court, discussed the
question at length. That case involved bridges which
had been destroyed during the War Between the States
by a retreating Northern Army to impede the advance
of the Confederate Army., Though the point was not
directly involved, the Court raised the question of whether
this act constituted a compensable taking by the United
States and answered it in the negative:
"The destruction or injury of
battle, or in the bombardment
and in many other ways in the
by the sufferers alone as one
Whatever would embarrass or

private property in
of. cities and towns,
war, had to be borne
of its consequences.
impede the advance

impending public danger, but it is the emergency, as was said. by a
great magistrate, that gives the right, and it is clear that the emergency must be shown to exist before the taking can be justified. Such
a justification may be shown, and when shown the rule is well settled
that the officer taking private property for such a purpose, if. the
emergency is fully proved, is not a trespasser, and that the government is bound to make full compensation to the owner."
4 The narrow issue'in the case was whether, after the Army rebuilt
the bridges it had previously destroyed, the Army could charge for
the expense of the rebuilding. On this issue the Court held for the

railroad.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

of the enemy, as the breaking Up of roads, or the
burning of bridges, or would cripple and defeat him,
as destroying his means of subsistence, were lawfully
ordered by the commanding general. Indeed, it was
his imperative duty to direct their destruction. The
necessities of the war called for and justified this.
The safety of the state in such cases overrides all
considerations of private loss." 5
It may be true that this language also went beyond
the precise questions at issue. But the principles expressed were neither novel nor startling, for the common
law had long recognized that in times of imminent
peril-such as when fire threatened a whole communitythe sovereign could, with immunity, destroy the property of a few that the property of many and the lives of
many more could be saved.' And what was said in the
Pacific Railroad case was later made the basis for the
holding in Juragua Iron Co. v. United States, 212 U. S.
297 (1909), where recovery was denied to the owners of
a factory which had been destroyed by American soldiers
in the field in Cuba because it was thought that the structure housed the germs of a contagious disease.
Therefore, whether or not the principle laid down by
Mr. Justice Field was dictum when he-enunciated it, we
hold that it is law today. In our view, it must govern in
this case. Respondents and the majority of the Court of
Claims, arguing to the contrary, have placed great emphasis on the fact that the Army exercised "deliberation" in
singling out this property, in "requisitioning" it from its
owners, and in exercising "control" over it before devastating it. We need not labor over these labels; it may be
5 120 U. S., at 234.
6 For earlier cases expressing such principles see, e. g., Bowditch v.
Boston, 101 U. S. 16, 18-19 (1879); Respublica v. Sparhawk, 1 Dalil.
357 (1788); Parham v.' The Justices, 9 Ga. 341, 348-349 (1851).
See also 2 Kent's Commentaries (14th ed.) 338.

UNITED STATES v. CALTEX, INC.
149

Opinion of the Court.

that they describe adequately what was done, but they
do not show the legal consequences of what was done.
The "requisition" involved in this case was no more than
an order to evacuate the premises which were slated for
demolition. The "deliberation" behind the order was no
more than a design to prevent the enemy from realizing
any strategic value from an area which he was soon to
capture.
Had the Army hesitated, had the facilities only been
destroyed after retreat, respondents would certainly have
no claims to compensation. The Army did not hesitate.
It is doubtful that any concern over the legal niceties of
the situation entered into the decision to destroy the
plants promptly while there was yet time to destroy them
thoroughly." Nor do we think it legally significant that
the destruction was effected prior to withdrawal. The
short of the matter is that this property, due to the fortunes of war, had become a potential weapon of great
significance to the invader. It was destroyed, not appropriated for subsequent use. It was destroyed that the
United States might better and sooner destroy the enemy.
The terse language of the Fifth Amendment is no comprehensive promise that the United States will make
whole all who suffer from every ravage and burden of war.
This Court has long recognized that in wartime many
losses must be attributed solely to the fortunes of war,
7 Cf. Respublica v. Sparhawk, supra, where the following appears,
1 DalI., at 363:
"We find, indeed, a memorable instance of folly recorded in the 3
Vol. of Clarendon's History, Where it is mentioned, that the Lord
Mayor of London, in 1666, when that city was on fire, would not give
directions for, or consent to, the pulling down forty wooden houses, or
to the removing the furniture, &c. belonging to the Lawyers of the
Temple, then on the Circuit, for fear he should be answerable for a
trespass; and in consequence of this conduct half that great city was
burnt."

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
DOUGLAS, J.,

dissenting.

344 U. S.

and not to the sovereign." No rigid rules can be laid down
to distinguish compensable losses from noncompensable
losses. Each case must be judged on its own facts. But
the general principles laid down in the Pacific Railroad
case seem especially applicable here. Viewed realistically, then, the destruction of respondents' terminals by
a trained team of engineers in the face of their impending
seizure by the enemy was no different than the destruction of the bridges in the Pacific Railroad case. Adhering to the principles of that case, we conclude that the
court below erred in holding that respondents have a
constitutional right to compensation on the claims presented to this Court.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS;

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
I have no doubt that the military had authority to
select this particular property for destruction. But
whatever the weight of authority may be, I believe that
the Fifth Amendment requires compensation for the
taking. The property was destroyed, not because it was
in the nature of a public nuisance, but because its destruction was deemed necessary to help win the war. It was as
clearly appropriated to that end as animals, food, and
supplies requisitioned for the defense effort. As the
Court says, the destruction' of this property deprived the
enemy of a valuable logistic weapon.
It seems to me that the guiding principle should be
this: Whenever the Government determines that one person's property-whatever it may be-is essential to the
war effort and appropriates it for the common good, the
public purse, rather than the individual, should bear the
loss. ,
8Lichter v. United States, 334 U. S. 742, 787-788 (1948) ; Bowles v.
Willingham 321 U. S. 503, 517-519 (1944); Omnia Commercial Co.
v. United States, 261 U. S. 502 (1923).

II

