254

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Syllabus.

344 U. S.

KING ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE FLORIDA
RAILROAD AND PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION, v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 9. Argued October 15, 1952.-Decided December 22, 1952.
1. In prescribing intrastate freight rates for railroads under § 13 (4)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Interstate Commerce Commission may give weight to deficits in passenger revenue. Pp. 260267.
(a) Under § 15a (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act and the
National Transportation Policy of 1940, the Commission may give
weight to passenger revenue deficits in prescribing interstate freight
rates to meet over-all revenue needs.. Pp. 263-264.
(b) The same National Transportation Policy applies to § 13 (4)
as to § 15a (2). Whichever section is used, the same economic
considerations underlie the relation between freight rates and passenger deficits, wOhether interstate or intrastate. P. 266.
2. The findings of the Commission which are involved in this proceeding are sufficient to sustain the Commission's order prescribing
intrastate freight rates, for Florida railroads, which will reflect,
the same increases as have been authorized by the Commission
for comparable interstate traffic. Pp. 267-276.
(a) North Carolinav. United States, 325 U. S. 507, distinguished.
Pp. 270-274.
(b) To permit material and reports which were before the Commission in prescribing a nationwide increase in interstate freight
rates and in further increasing interstate freight rates for the
southern territory (including Florida) to be applied under § 15a
but not under § 13 (4) would be contrary to the complementary
nature of those sections. Pp. 272-273.
(c) The Commission's jurisdiction over intrastate rates is not
limited to cases where those rates are confiscatory. It is sufficient
that the existing intrastate rates cause "unjust discrimination
against interstate or foreign commerce." P. 274.
(d) Where the Commission seeks to deal generally with rates
and revenues in A large area on evidence typical of the area as a

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

whole, it may proceed by way of a general order supported by
sufficient evidence applicable to the whole territory, but it is well
to leave the way open for modifications of that general order in
specific situations where the general order is not justly applicable.
Pp. 275-276.
101 F. Supp. 941, affirmed.

A three-judge District Court sustained an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing intrastate
freight rates for Florida railroads. 101 F. Supp. 941. On
appeal to this Court under 28 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 1253,
2101 (b), affirmed, p. 276.
Lewis W. Petteway argued the cause and filed a brief
for appellants.
Charles H. Weston argued the cause for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Stern, Acting Assistant Attorney General Clapp,
James L. Morrisson and Edward M. Reidy. Philip B.
Perlman,then Solicitor General, and Daniel W. Knowlton
were on a motion to affirm.
Frank W. Gwathmey argued the cause for the Atlantic
Coast Line Railroad- Co. et al., appellees. With him on
the brief was James A. Bistline.
Arnold H. Olsen, Attorney General, Charles V. Huppe,
Assistant Attorney General, and Edwin S. Booth filed a
brief for the State of Montana et al., as amici curiae,
urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The questions here are: (1) whether the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in prescribing intrastate freight
rates for railroads under § 13 (4) of the Interstate Coin-

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

merce Act,' may give weight to deficits in passenger
revenue; and (2) whether the findings of the Commission which are involved in this proceeding are sufficient
to sustain the rates it has prescribed. Our answer to each
question is in the affirmative.
This is an action against the United States brought
in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Florida, under 28 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 1336, by
appellants "as and Constituting the Florida Railroad and
Public Utilities Commission." They ask the court to
enjoin, set aside and annul an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission requiring Florida railroads to
establish intrastate freight rates which will reflect the
same increases as have been authorized by it for comparable interstate traffic.
The underlying proceedings originated in 1940. The
Interstate Commerce Commission then undertook a
nationwide investigation of interstate railroad freight
rates, under §§ 13 (2).and 15a (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act, in conformity with the National Transporta"(4) Whenever in any such investigation [where rates made by
authority of a state are in issue] the Commission, after full hearing,
finds that any such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or
practice causes any undue or unreasonable advantage, preference,
or .prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate commerce
on the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce on the other
hand, or any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against

interstate or foreign commerce, which is hereby forbidden and declared to be unlawful, it shall prescribe the rate, fare, or charge, or
the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, thereafter
to be charged, and the classification, regulation, or practice thereafter
to be observed, in such manner as, in its judgment, will remove such
advantage, preference, prejudice, or discrimination. Such rates, fares,
charges, classifications, regulations, and practices shall be observed
while in effect by the carriers parti s to such proceeding affected
thereby, the law of any State or the decision or order of any State

authority to the contrary notwithstanding."
Stat. 484, 49 U. S. C. § 13 '(,4.

(Italics supplied.)

41

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

tion Policy stated in § 1 of the Transportation Act of
1940.2 The investigation dealt with past and future
freight and passenger operations, intrastate as well as
interstate. A Committee of Cooperating State Commissioners sat with the Commission and took part in its
deliberations. Mounting railroad operating costs and
declining passenger revenue led the Commission, in 1946,
to authorize a nationwide increase of 20% in basic interstate freight rates. Ex Parte No. 162, Increased.Railway Rates, Fares, and Charges, 1946, 264 I. C. C. 695,
266 I. C. C. 537.3
In 1947, the Commission found such further increases
in operating costs and decreases in passenger revenue that
it authorized an additional nationwide interim increase
of 10% in interstate freight rates. Soon it raised this
to 20%. In a third report it varied the percentage in
different areas, with the result that in the southern territory, including Florida, the increase was 25%. The
1948 final report confirmed this 25% increase. Ex Parte
No. 166, Increased Freight Rates, 1947, 269 I. C. C. 33,
270 I. C. C. 81, 93, and 403. The Commission's estimates
of revenue contemplated the application of the increased
rates to intrastate, as well as to interstate, transporta2§

13 (2), 36 Stat. 550, as amended, 41 Stat. 484, 49 U. S. C.
§ 13 (2); § 15a (2), 54 Stat. 912, 49 U. S. C. § 15a (2); § 1 of the
Transportation Act of 1940, inserting a preamble to the Interstate
Commerce Act, 54 Stat. 899, 49 U. S. C., note preceding § 1.
3 For earlier reports see Ex Parte No. 148, Increased Railway Rates,

Fares, and Charges, 1942, 248 I. C. C. 545. The several proceedings
under §§ 15a or 13 (4) referred to in this opinion deal at length
with many commodity and other rates or charges besides those
which are controlled by the general percentage increases referred to
in the opinion. While such variations are important and significant

in adjusting each order to specific situations, their consideration is
not necessary to the determination of the issues before us. The percentages used in this opinion are those which were adopted by the

court below for illustrative purposes.

101 F. Supp. 941, 943-944.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

tion.' The report concludes with the statement that the
"Committee of Cooperating State Commissioners...
authorize us to state that they concur in the foregoing
report." 270 I. C. C. 403, 463.
Upon publication of these reports, the railroads asked
their respective state authorities to authorize comparable
increases in intrastate rates. The Florida Commission
approved most of the increases but declined to approve
the final'increase from 20% to 25%.*
On petition of the Florida railroads, the Interstate
Commerce Commission undertook its own investigation
of Florida intrastate railroad rates under § 13 (3) and
In Ex Parte No. 166, 270 I. C. C. 403, 421, the tabulations of overall percentage increases in freight rates include intrastate traffic. The
report says: "The table which relates to class r railroads, covers all
traffic, intrastate as well as interstate, and assumes increases to have
been approved on intrastate traffic similarly to those upon interstate
traffic in the same territory, for the whole time." In referring to
revenue from operations for a "constructive," normal year, the report
says: "This estimate is upon the assumption that timely similar adjustments will be made upon intrastate traffic." Id., at 428. As to
rates of return on property values, it adds: "They presuppose that
generally similar increases will be permitted by State authorities on
intrastate traffic, or may become effective otherwise." Id., at 437.
See also, 269 I. C. C. at 39, 94-95, and 270 I. C. C. at 440.
5 In response to requests based upon Ex Parte No. 162, supra, the
Florida Commission granted the original 20% general increase in
intrastate freight rates but declined to allow increases in intrastate
rates on logs moving to the mills, wet phosphate moving from the
washer to the drying plant, waste wood moving to retort or recovery
plant and sugar cane moving to the mills. It also limited rate
increases on pulpwood to 9%. In response to requests to conform
to Ex Parte No. 166, supra, the Florida Commission granted the
additional 20% general increase in intrastate freight rates, but declined
to approve the further 5% increase. It also made specific exceptions
in favor of certain commodities. As the issues with which we are
concerned are sufficiently raised by the Florida Commission's action
denying the final 5% increase, we confine our discussion to that item.

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

(4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 41 Stat. 484, 49
U. S. C. § 13 (3) and (4). A full hearing was had before
a Commissioner and an examiner, followed by a hearing
upon exceptions to the examiner's report.' The Commission recommended that intrastate freight rates be
established "between points in Florida which will reflect'
the same increases as are, and for the future may be,
maintained by respondents [railroads] on like interstate
traffic to and from Florida, and within Florida under our
authorizations in Ex Parte No. 162 and Ex Parte No.
166 . . . ." Finding No. 8, 278 I. C. C. 41, 73.
The Interstate Commerce Commission then gave the
Florida Commission a final opportunity to permit the
increased rates to be applied to intrastate transportation.
Upon the latter's failure to act, the Interstate Commerce
Commission ordered the railroads "thereafter to maintain and apply for the intrastate transportation of freight
-from and to points in the State of Florida freight rates
and charges which shall be no lower than the approved
rates and charges, or on the approved rate bases, as provided in said report."' ?
6

While the Commission states that its conclusions differ from those

in the proposed report of the examiner, they do not so differ on the
issues before us.
7 For other decisions of the Commission as to intrastate rates under
§ 13 (3) and (4), growing out of Ex Parte Nos. 162 or 166, supra,
see Increases in Alabama Freight Rates and Charges, 274 I. C. C.
439; Texas Intrastate Rates, 273 I. C. C. 749; Increasesin Tennessee
Freight Rates and Charges, 272 I. C. C. 625. See also, Increases in
Arizona Freight Rates and Charges, 270 I. C. C. 105. A recent
decision, growing out of Ex Parte No. 168, Increased Freight Rates,
1948, 276 I. C. C. 9, is Montana IntrastateFreight Rates and Charges,
284 I. C. C. 167. The intrastate rates there ordered into effect by
the Commission were set aside in Montana v. United States, 106 F.
Supp. 778, and 786'; judgment vacated and cause remanded by this
Court for further consideration in the light of the instant case,
post, p. 905.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

Before that order took effect, this action was filed.
A three-judge District Court was convened. 28 U. S. C.
(Supp. V) § 2325. Two short line railroads and numerous
shippers intervened as plaintiffs. The Interstate Commerce Commission and all Class I railroads operating in

Florida intervened as defendants. The entire record of
the proceeding before the Commission, under § 13 (4), was
introduced. The court sustained the Commission and
dismissed the complaint. 101 F. Supp. 941. That judgment is here on appeal. 28-U. S. C. (Supp. V) §§ 1253,
2101 (b).
I. The Interstate Commerce Commission in prescribing
intrastate freight rates for railroads under § 13 (4)
of the Interstate Commerce Act may give weight to
deficits in passenger revenue.
In- Ex Parte No. 168, Increased Freight Rates, 1948,
272 I. C. C. 695, 276 I. C. C. 9, the Commission reviewed

the changiig attitudes it has adopted concerning the role
of passenger deficits and freight rates. In such cases as
the Five Per Cent Case, 31 I. C. C. 351, the Commission
in 1914 concluded that each class of service should completely and independently provide its own proportionate
share of expenses and profits.' In 1949 the Commission
says:
"However, because 6f changed theories adopted
by Congress in the Transportation Act, 1920, and
8 The

Commission there said:

"We know of no provision of law under which we should be justified
in increasing freight rates to provide a return upon property used
exclusively in the passenger service, much less to take care of losses
incurred in such service. In our opinion each branch of the service
should contribute its proper share of the cost of operation and of
return upon the property devoted to the use of the public." 31
I.C. C. at 392.

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254-

Opinion of the Court.

because as a practical matter the increasing degree
of unprofitableness of the passenger traffic menaced
the continuity of an adequate national system of
transportation, we were forced to a more comprehensive view of this question. We observe, also, that
at the time of those decisions the railroads enjoyed a
practical monopoly in supplying transportation, but
that situation no longer exists." 276 I. C. C. at 34.
Citing with approval its similar views in Ex Parte No.
103, Fifteen Per Cent Case, 1931, 178 I. C. C. 539, and
Ex Parte No. 123, Fifteen Per Cent Case, 1937-1938, 226
I. C. C. 41, the Commission summarizes its present position as follows:
"These cases are typical of our more recent holdings upon this question. While we regard it as 'trite
to say that each particular service, coach, sleeper,
parlor car, and head end, should as nearly as may
be pay its own way and return a profit' (Eastern
PassengerFaresin Coaches, 227 I. C. C. 17, 25), and
we have accepted the contention that there may be
traffic that should not be burdened with a shortage
of passenger service return (Livestock, Western District Rates, 190 I. C. C. 611, 629), yet, if passenger
service inevitably and inescapably cannot bear its
direct costs and its share of joint or indirect costs,
we have felt compelled in a general rate case to take
the passenger deficit into account in adjustment of
freight rates and charges. Both the freight and passenger services are essential, and revenue losses or
deficits on the one necessarily must be compensated
by earnings on the other if the carriers are to continue operations. Both may be subjected to reasonable rates and charges to produce the fair aggregate return, even though thereby a higher rate of
return may be exacted from the one than from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

other, (Property Owners' Committee v. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co., 237 L C. C. 549, 565.)." Id., at 35.
See also, Ex Parte 87, Revenues in Western District,
113 I. C. C. 3, 23.
This change of policy was the inevitable consequence
of steadily increasing passenger operating costs, together
with the growth "of vigorous competition from automobiles and other forms of transportation which made it
futile to compensate for the passenger deficits by increasing passenger rates. The railroads were forced to abandon passenger mileage, reduce service and improve their
facilities, while fixing passenger rates at a level as adequate as competition permitted.'
In recent years, a nationwide passenger deficit has been
obvious except during the peak of wartime passenger
traffic. The ratio between passenger operating expense
and revenue has varied in different areas but has been
uniformly unfavorable to the railroads."0
9
Passenger service involves not only transportation of people but
of mail, express, baggage, milk and other "head-end" services requiring the speed and service of passenger trains. These operations have
shown a national operating deficit in each year from 1936 through
1948. 276 i. C. C. at 38.
10 ".. Between the end of 1923 and the beginning of the present
year [1948], the miles of line operated in passenger service of the
class I roads decreased from 224,762 to 159,373 . . . or 29.1 percent
in 26 years .... In addition to total abandonments, much curtailment of service has occurred, which is impossible to portray statistically.

From 1923 through 1933 both the number of passengers
carried and the revenues from passenger fares declined uninterruptedly. Passengers carried declined from slightly less than 1 billion in
the earlier year to less than half that figure, or 433 millions, in round
numbers, in the later year. Revenues from passenger fares fell from
$1,148 millions to $329 millions, a decline between these 2 years of
more than 70 percent. This development was accompanied, except

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

263

Opinion of the Court.

Section 15a (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act and
the National Transportation Policy of 194011 reflect this
broad concept of the unity of the Nation's transportation system. They direct the Commission to consider,
for 1 year, by an uninterrupted increase in the passenger service
operating ratio from 81.29 percent in 1923 to 101.22 percent in 1930,

the latter being the first year of the 11 years 1920-30 in which there
was an operating deficit in this service.

Since that year there has

been an annual operating deficit in passenger service, except during
the war years 1942-45.
"Passenger service operating ratios and net railway operating deficits
in 1948, by specified districts and regions
District or region

Operating
ratio

Net railway operating
deficit

Eastern district ------------------Pocahontas region -----------------Southern region -------------------

120. 8
177. 8
127. 3

$216,450, 000
35, 725,000
72, 982, 000

Western district --------------------

132. 2

234, 625, 000

127.4

559, 782, 000"

Total ----------------------

276 I. C. C. at 36, 40; see also, pp. 14-31 for data as to value, revenue, expenses, operating income, rate of return, traffic, efficiency,
etc., and pp. 32-40 as to passenger deficits.
See Moulton, The American Transportation Problem, c. V
(1933); 63d, 64th and 65th Annual Reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission, at pp. 3, 5 and 41, respectively.
S11 "In the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable
rates the Commission shall give due consideration, among other
factors, to the effect of rates on the movement of traffic by the
carrier or carriers for which the rates are prescribed; to the need,
in the public interest, of adequate and efficient railway transportation
service at the lowest cost consistent with the furnishing of such service; and to the need of revenues sufficient to enable the carriers,
under honest, economical, and efficient management to provide such
service." 54 Stat. 912, 49 U. S. C. § 15a (2).
"It is, hereby declared to be the national transportation policy of
the Congress to provide for fair and impartial regulation of all modes

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

among other things, the need, in the public interest, of
adequate and efficient railway transportation service and
the need of revenues sufficient to sustain such service. It
permeates such general revenue proceedings as Ex Parte
Nos. 162 and 166, supra. It leaves no ground for a claim
that the Commission may not give weight to passenger
revenue deficits in prescribing interstate freight rates to
meet over-all revenue needs. See United States v.
Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70.
The question remains whether that Commission may
give weight to deficits in passenger revenue (either interstate or intrastate) when prescribing intrastate freight
rates under § 13 (4). It is conceivable that some considerations properly given weight by the Commission in
prescribing interstate freight rates in a general revenue
proceeding might not be applicable equally to transportation within a particular state.
In the instant case, however, there is no showing that
the character of operating conditions in Florida intrastate
passenger traffic differs substantially from that of interof transportation subject to the provisions of this Act, so administered as to recognize and preserve the inherent advantages of each;
to promote safe, adequate, economical, and efficient service and foster
sound economic conditions in transportation and among the several
carriers; to encourage the establishment and maintenance of reasonable charges for transportation services, without unjust discriminations, undue preferences or advantages, or unfair or destructive competitive practices; to cooperate with the several States and the duly
authorized officials thereof; and to encourage fair wages and equitable
working conditions ;-all to the end of developing, coordinating, and
preserving a national transportation. system by water, highway, and
rail, as well as other means, adequate to meet the needs of the commerce of the United States, of the Postal Service, and of the national
defense. All of the provisions of this Act shall be administered and

enforced with a view to carrying out the above declaration of policy."
54 Stat. 899, 49 U. S. C., note preceding § 1.

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

state passenger operations in the southern territory generally. On the contrary, the Commission observes that"Increased passenger deficits, by reason of the continuing rise in operating expenses and the growing
use of other forms of transportation, is a conditior
bearing alike upon intrastate and interstate rates.
There is here no claim or showing that the passenger
deficits of the respondents do not result from intrastate as well as interstate operations, and the passenger deficit of the East Coast, which operates
entirely within Florida, would appear to -indicate to
the contrary.
"The record affords no justification for a difference
in treatment in this respect [passenger deficits] between Florida intrastate traffic, on the one hand, and
interstate traffic to and from Florida, on the other
hand. The question of passenger deficits is a serious
one for both carriers and shippers, and would become
even more serious for interstate shippers if this burden were imposed entirely upon them [rather than
being shared on a like basis with intrastate shippers
on the same lines]." 278 I. C. C. at 67-68. See
opinion below, 101 F. Supp. at 944.
It appears from the report in Ex Parte No. 168, 276
I. C. C. at 40, that, in 1948, the passenger service operating
ratio for the southern territory was 127.3% wbile the operating ratios of the three principal Florida railroads in
that year were 120%, 127% and 128%. In Florida,
moreover, the discontinuance of railroad passenger service
would not permit the discontinuance of high-speed tracks
and equipment because of the need for fast freight schedules to transport perishable fruits and vegetables from
Florida. The Commission dealt with the freight and passenger revenues and properties of the Florida roads as a

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

whole when determining the need for increases in interstate freight rates. Nothing has been demonstrated
which would demand different treatment of these properties in relation to the intrastate activities.
The Commission also finds that "the Florida intrastate
rates [without the 5% increase] . . . are abnormally low

and are not contributing their fair share to the revenues
required by respondents [Florida railroads] to enable
them to render adequate and efficient service and to operate profitably, and thereby accomplish the purpose of
the Interstate Commerce Act .V..."
Finding. No. 5,
278 I. C. C. at 72.
in the instant case there is no evidence which would
require the Commission to treat Florida intrastate rates
differently from interstate rates in southern territory.
Instead, there are findings that it would cause unjust
discrimination against interstate commerce in Florida if
the intrastate freight rates are not increased so as to reflect the same increase as is applied by the Commission
to like interstate traffic in the southern territory. See
note 13, infra.
The same National Transportation Policy applies to
§ 13 (4) as to § 15a (2). Whichever section is used, the
same economic considerations underlie the relation' between freight rates and passenger deficits, whether interstate or intrastate. This was well considered throughout
the opinion of the Court in United States v. Louisiana,
supra. It was there said:
"This Court has consistently held that this section
[§ 13 (4)] is to be construed in the light of § 15a (2)
and as supplementing it, so that the forbidden discrimination against interstate commerce by intrastate'
rates includes those cases in which disparity of the
latter rates operates to thwart the broad purpose of
§ 15a to maintain an efficient transportation system
by enabling the carriers to earn a fair return. So

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

construed, § 13 (4) confers on the Commission the
power to raise intrastate rates so that the intrastate
traffic may produce its fair share of the earnings required to meet maintenance and operating costs and
to yield a fair return on the value of property devoted
to the transportation service, both interstate and
intrastate." Pp. 74-75.
This was confirmed in Floridav. United States, 292 U. S.
1, 5-6.
We conclude that there is no reason why the Commission may not give weight to passenger deficits in prescribing the intrastate freight rates in Florida, as it does
in prescribing interstate freight rates for the southern
territory."
II, The Commission's findings involved in this proceeding are sufficient to sustain the rates prescribed.
Several of the Commission's findings which lend support to its order are printed in the margin." Its author12

Northern Pacific R. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, and
Norfolk & W. R. Co. v. Conley, 236 U. S. 605, favor, rather than
oppose, this position. In those cases this Court enjoined state authorities from attempting to restrict an intrastate railroad to confiscatorily low freight or passenger rates. Such action, however, carried no implication that the United States' authority to provide
relief is limited to eases of threatened confiscation. In the instant
case the Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized by Congress,

under §§ 15a (2) and 13 (4), to override state-prescribed rates which
unjustly discriminate against interstate commerce, whether or not the
state rates are also confiscatory.
13"2. That the transportation conditions incident to the intrastate
transportationof freight in Florida are not more favorable and such
conditions in the Florida peninsula are somewhat less favorable than
those (1) within southern territory and (2) between. Florida and
interstate points.
"3. That the present interstate freight rates and charges within
Florida and between points in Florida and points in other States

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

ity to prescribe the rates now before us rests on the
provision, in § 13 (4), that when it finds that an intrastate rate causes "any undue, unreasonable, or unjust

discrimination

against

interstate

or

foreign

com-

merce . . ." it shall prescribe such rate as, in its judgare just and reasonable ...and that intrastate rates, charges, and
minimum weights herein approved will not exceed a just and reasonable level.
"5. That the Florida intrastate rates, charges, and minimum
weights, which are below the level herein authorized, are abnormally
low and are not contributing their fair share to the revenues required
by respondents to enable them to render adequate and efficient service and to operate profitably, and thereby accomplish the purpose of
the Interstate Commerce Act, and as set forth in the national transportation policy declared by the Congress, to develop and preserve
a national transportation system adequate to meet the needs of the
commerce of the United States, of the postal service, and of the
national defense; and that the burden thus cast upon interstate commerce is undue to the extent that these intrastate rates and charges
are less than they would be on the basis herein approved.
"6. That the establishment of intrastaterates and charges increased
sufficiently to equal the level herein approved will substantially increase respondents' revenues therefrom, and will constitute not more
than a fair proportion of respondents' total income ....
".7. That the maintenance of intrastate rates and charges within
Florida on bases lower than those herein approved causes, and in
the future will cause, (1) in all instances, unjust discriminationagainst
interstate commerce, (2) in nearly all instances, undue preference of
and advantage to localities in intrastate commerce, and undueprejudice to localities in interstate commerce; . ...
"8. That this unjust discrimination and undue prejudice should be
removed by establishing intrastate rates and charges between points
in Florida which will reflect the same increases as are, and for the
future may be, maintained by respondents on like interstate traffic
to and from Florida, and within Florida under our authorizations in
Ex Parte No. 162 and Ex Parte No. 166, modified as herein indicated
and as proposed before the Florida commission in proceedings referred
to herein: ...(5) that no intrastate rate or charge shall be increased so that it will exceed the lowest level of the corresponding
rates or charges contemporaneously maintained generaIly on inter-

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

269

Opinion of the Court.

ment, will remove the discrimination. Note 1, supra.
The Commission's finding No. 7 meets this requirement.
'The Commission there finds that the maintenance of the
existing intrastate rates within Florida "on bases lower
than those herein approved causes, and in the future will
cause, (1) in all instances, unjust discrimination against
interstate commerce ...
"
278 1. C. C. at 73. If supported by adequate subsidiary findings, this ultimate finding thus sustains the authority of the Commission and the
validity of its order."' North Carolinav. United States,
325 U. S. 507, 514; Floridav. United States, 292 U. S. 1;
state traffic to and from Florida points in the period from August 21,
1948, to, but not including, January 11, 1949; ....
"These findings are without prejudice to the right of the authorities of the State of Florida, or any other interested party; to apply
for-a modification thereof as to any specific intrastaterates or charges
on the ground that they are not related to the interstate rates or
charges on like traffic in such a way as to contravene the provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act." (Italics supplied.) 278 I. C. C.
at 72-74.
14 An alternative provision of § 13 (4) is that whenever in such
an investigation the Commission finds that an intrastate rate causes
"any undue or unreasonable advantage, preference, or prejudice as
between persons or localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand
and interstate or foreign commerce on the other hand . . . it shall
prescribe the rate . . . thereafter to be charged . .. in such manner
as, in its judgment, will remove such advantage, preference, prejudice,
or discrimination." Note 1, supra. On this point the Commission's
finding No. 7 states that the maintenance of intrastate rates in Florida
"on bases lower than those herein approved causes, and in the future
will cause . . . (2) in nearly all instances, undue preference of and
advantage to localities in intrastate commerce, and undue prejudice to
localities in interstate commerce; . . . ." 28 I. C. C. at 73. As to
this alternative provision, see also, Wisconsin R. Commission v.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Houston, E. & W. T. R. Co.
v. United States, 234 U. S. 342. In view of the above restricted
finding and of the doubt expressed by the court below as to the ability
of the Commission to sustain its action on that ground, we place no
reliance upon this alternative here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

282 U. S. 194; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U,. S. 70.
The court below adds that it is "clear from the evidence
in the case that it [the existing intrastate rate] did result
in undue, unreasonable and unjust discrimination against
interstate commerce . . . ." 101 F. Supp. 941, 945.
The nature and adequacy of the findings necessary to
support an ultimate finding of "unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce" were considered in North
Carolinav. United States, supra. In that case this Court
held that the Commission's findings were not adequate to
support the Commission's order to raise state-wide intrastate passenger rates from 1.65 cents per mile to 2.2 cents
per mile, although the latter rate was prescribed by the
Commission as a minimum rate for comparable interstate
passenger service on the same lines and trains. The finding which was primarily needed, and was there found lacking, was one that the intrastate service at 1.65 cents per
mile did not contribute its fair share of the earnings required to meet maintenance and operating costs and to
yield a fair return on the value of the property directed
to the transportation service, both interstate and
intrastate.
This Court held that the mere disparity between the
rates for comparable intrastate and -interstate service
was not enough per-se to establish the requisite unjust
discrimination. Confronted with evidence that the interstate rate of 2.2 cents per mile was above a reasonable
rate level for comparable intrastate passenger service, a
finding supported -by evidence was held to be necessary
to show the contrary. Such a finding, lacking in the
North Carolina case, is supplied here by finding No. 3,
which states that the "intrastate rates . . . herein approved will not exceed a just and reasonable level." 278
I. C. C. at 72.
In the North Carolina case there was fio finding that.
the existing intrastate rate was inadequate. In fact, its

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

ample adequacy was indicated by evidence of an extraordinarily large volume of available traffic and profits. In
contrast, the Commission, in the instant case, has found
that the existing "Florida intrastate rates . . . which are
below the [proposed] level herein authorized, are abnormally low -nd are not contributing their fair share to the
revenues . . . and that the burden thus cast upon interstate commerce is undue to the extent that these intrastate rates . . . are less than they would be on the basis
herein approved." Finding No. 5, id., at 72-73, and see
45-59. The report adds that "the revenue loss as estimated by the respondents [railroads] because of the failure to authorize the increases herein sought is $915,325
a year." Id., at 65.
Whereas in the North Carolinacase there was evidence
to indicate that the conditions in that State were more
favorable to profitable intrastate transportation of passengers than in the Nation at large, here the Commission's
finding No. 2 expressly states that "the transportation
conditions incident to the intrastate transportation of
freight in Florida are not more favorable and such conditions in the Florida peninsula are somewhat less favorable
than those (1) within southern territory and (2) between
Florida and interstate points." Id., at 72, and see 63-67.
Supporting the conclusion that the proposed increase
in the Florida intrastate freight rates will not drive away
business but will prove profitable and reasonable, the
Commission in its finding No. 6 says that "the establishment of intrastate rates . . . increased sufficiently to
equal the level herein approved will substantially increase
respondents' .[railroads'] revenues therefrom, and will
constitute not more than a fair proportion of respondents'
total income . . . ." Id., at 73.
The foregoing findings cover the needs emphasized in
the North Carolina case. They go far beyond the bare
disparity between the existing intrastate rate and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

proposed minimum rate which is in substantial uniformity
with the interstate rate. These findings demonstrate that
the proposed rate in Florida will be within the zone of reasonableness and, in the opinion of the Commission, will
cause the intrastate freight traffic to contribute a fair
share of the earnings.
The Commission has applied to the Florida operations
the same conclusion it reached as to the need for increased
revenue on a national basis and has distributed the burden within Florida along the same lines it followed when
estimating the revenues available in the southern territory from intrastate as well as interstate operations. In
the absence of any showing that it is not applicable to
Florida, the evidence which forms the basis of the Commission's nationwide order becomes the natural basis for
its Florida order.
The Commission in the instant case has provided that
these "findings are without prejudice to the right of the
authorities of the State of Florida, or any other interested
party, to apply for a modification thereof as to any specific
intrastate rates . . . on the ground that they are not related to the interstate rates . . on like traffic in such a
way as to contravene the provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act." Id., at 74. Certain of the rates in the
original order already have been modified or removed
from that order. 101 F. Supp. at 946.
No question has been raised here as to the adequacy
of the evidence upon which any of the findings are based.
Although no such point is urged, supporting evidence appears in the record of the "full hearing" under § 13 (4),
all of which was introduced in evidence in the court below. Much of the factual material that was before the
Commission in Ex Parte No. 162 and Ex Parte No. 166,
and the reports in those cases, were before the Commission and the court below in the present proceedings. To
permit such material and reports to be applied under § 15a

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

but not under § 13 (4) would be contrary to the complementary nature of those sections.
"The decision in the first proceeding, that the increase in interstate rates was reasonable, was made
in the hope that the state commissions would bring
intrastate rates into harmony. When they failed to
do so, the Commission reaffirmed its finding that the
new interstate rates were reasonable and found that
the intrastate rates must be raised in order that the
intrastate traffic may bear its fair share of the revenue burden. It is plain from the nature of the inquiry that the rate level, to which both classes of
traffic were raised, was found reasonable on the basis
of the traffic as a whole. Where the conditions under
which interstate and intrastate traffic move are
found to be substantially the same with respect to
all factors bearing on the reasonableness of the rate,
and the two classes are shown to be intimately bound
together, there is no occasion to deal with the reasonableness of the intrastate rates more specifically,
or to separate intrastate and interstate costs and revenues. Compare American Express Co. v. Caldwell,
244 U. S. 617; United States v. Louisiana,supra [290
U. S. 70] ; Floridav. United States, ante [292 U. S.],
p. 1." Illinois Commerce Commission v. United
States, 292 U. S. 474, 483-484. See also, Montana
v. United States, 106 F. Supp. 778, 783.
The appellants point out that in the North Carolina
case, this Court mentioned the absence of other findings.
Those, however, are not needed to sustain an order already supported by such findings as have been made in
this case.1"
15

See Illinois Commerce Commission v. United States, supra;
Florida v. United States, 292 U. S. 1; United States v. Louisiana,
supra; Louisiana P. S. Commission v. Texas & N. 0. R. Co., 284

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

For example, the North Carolina case mentions the
absence in 'that case of a finding that the existing 1.65
cent per mile intrastate passenger rate was confiscatory.
Such a finding, supported by competent evidence, would
have provided a constitutional ground for enjoining the
state rate. See Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Conley,
236 U. S. 605; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. North Dakota,
236 U. S.585. The Interstate Commerce Commission's
jurisdiction over intrastate rates, however, is not limited to cases where those rates are confiscatory. It
is sufficient that the existing intrastate rates cause "unjust discrimination against interstate or foreign commerce . . . ." In that event, § 13 (4) directs the Commission to prescribe intrastate rates that will remove the
discrimination without raising the rate beyond the zone of
reasonableness. See United States v. Louisiana,supra, at
74-75; Florida v. United States, 282 U. S.194, 211; Wisconsin R. Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257
U. S.563, 585-586.
Similarly, the North Carolina case mentions, but does
not make indispensable, the specific findings in dollars
which were absent there. Reference was made in the
North Carolina case to the absence of "findings as to
what contribution from intrastate traffic would constitute
a fair proportion of the railroad's total income" and also
to the absence of any "finding as to what amount of revenue was required to enable these railroads to operate
efficiently.' 325 U. S. at 516. The Court emphasized.
the Commission's reliance on "the mere existence of a disparity between what it said was a reasonable interstate
rate and the intrastate rate fixed by North -Carolina."
U. S. 125; Alabama v. United States, 283 U. S. 776; Georgia P. S.
Commission v. United States, 283 U. S. 765; New York v. United
States, 257 U. S. 591; Wisconsin R. Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q.
R. Co., 257 U. S. 563.

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

Opinion of the Court.

Ibid. In the instant case the Commission does not rely
upon the mere disparity between the intrastate and interstate rates. On the contrary, the Commission states
that the Florida intrastate rates "are abnormally low
and are not contributing their fair share to the revenues
required . . . to render adequate and efficient service and

to operate profitably, and thereby accomplish the purpose
of the Interstate Commerce Act

....

"

Finding No. 5,

278 I. C. C. at 72. Also, in finding No. 6, it says that
the establishment of the proposed increases in intrastate rates "will substantially increase respondents' revenues therefrom, and will constitute not more than a fair
proportion of respondents' total income .

. ."

Id., at

73. More is not needed. It is not necessary, for general
revenue purposes, to establish for each item in each
freight rate a fully developed rate case.
"[T]he administrative arm of the Commission [would
be] paralyzed, if instead of adjudicating upon the rates
in a large territory on evidence deemed typical of the
whole rate structure, it were obliged to consider the reasonableness of each individual rate before carrying into
effect the necessary increased schedule." ' United States
v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70, 75-76, and see 78-79. See
also, Illinois Commerce Commission v. United States, 292
U. S. 474, 483; Florida v. United States, 292 U. S. 1, 9;
GeorgiaP. S. Commission v. United States, 283 U. S.765,
774; Wisconsin R. Commission v. Chicago, B, & Q.R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563, 588. Where the Commission seeks to deal
generally with rates and revenues in a large area on evidence typical of the, area as a whole, it may proceed by
way of a general order supported by sufficient evidence
applicable to the whole territory." At the same time it
1

In its report the Commission says "where, as is the case here,

the intrastate and the interstate traffic, as a whole, moves under
substanti ally similar conditions, and the expense of handling the two

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

344 U. S.

is well for it to leave the way open, as it did here, for
modifications of that general order in specific situations
where the general order is not justly applicable. North
Carolinav. United States, supra, at 518, 535.
For these reasons, we conclude that the findings before
us sustain the order of the Commission and that the Commission was authorized to give the weight it did to passenger deficits when prescribing intrastate freight rates.
The judgment accordingly is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK is of opinion that the facts found
by the Commission were not adequate to support the
order and would set aside the order on authority of North
Carolinav. United States, 325 U. S. 507.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR.
VINSON concurs, dissenting.

CHIEF JUSTICE

The Court has taken an unprecedented and, in my
view, an unwarranted step in enlarging the authority of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. It upholds the
power of the Commission to raise intrastatefreight rates,
not because they favor intrastate over interstate commerce, not because they fail to yield their fair share of
the carriers' revenue, but because the carriers' interstate
passenger operations are losing money.
The power of Congress to regulate intrastate rates
stems from its authority to promote and protect interstate commerce. See Shreveport Rate Case, 234 U. S.
classes of traffic are inextricably woven together, an attempt to do
the impossible, namely an attempt to'show costs of intrastate service
segregated from interstate costs, together with similarly segregated
valuation of carrier property, would serve no useful purpose." 278
I. C. C. at 66.

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

342.' By § 13 (4) of the Act, the Commission is empowered to regulate intrastate rates which are found to
be discriminatory. The key to this regulatory authority
is discriminationagainst interstate commerce, which presupposes that somehow or other the particular intrastate
rates interfere with or prejudice interstate commerce.
This principle is explicit in § 13 (4) 2 and in the decisions
of the Court, both before and after the enactment of
§13 (4).As Mr. Justice Hughes speaking for the Court in the Shreveport
case said (234 U. S., p. 351): "Congress is empowered to regulate,that is, to provide the law for the government of interstate commerce;
to enact 'all appropriate legislation' for its 'protection and advancement' (The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 564); to adopt measures 'to
promote its growth and insure its safety' (County of Mobile v. Kim-

ball, supra); 'to foster, protect, control and restrain' (Second Employers' Liability Cases, supra). Its authority, extending to these
interstate carriers as -instruments of interstate commerce, necessarily
embraces the right to control their operations in all matters having
such a close and substantial relation to interstate traffic that the
control is essential or appropriate to the security of that traffic, to
the efficiency of the interstate service, and to the maintenance of
conditions under which interstate commerce may be conducted upon
fair2 terms and without molestation or hindrance." '
The relevant portions of § 13 (4) read: "Whenever in any such
investigation the Commission, after full hearing, finds that any such
rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice causes any
undue or unreasonable advantage, preference, or prejudice as between
persons or.localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand and
interstate or foreign commerce on the other hand, or any undue,
unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate or foreign
commerce, which is hereby forbidden and declared to be unlawful,
it shall prescribe the rate, fare, or charge, or the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, thereafter to be charged, and the
classification, regulation, or practice thereafter to be observed, in such
manner as, in its judgment, will remove such advantage, preference,
prejudice, or discrimination. ....
"
3
See Shreveport Rate Case, supra; American Express Co. v. South
Dakota, 244 U. S. 617; Wisconsin Commission v. Chicago, B. &

OQTOBER TERM, 1952.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

344 U. S.

In this case there is no rational relation between intrastate freight rates and interstate passenger operations.

The present level of freight rates in Florida neither
hampers nor obstructs the free flow of interstate passenger transportation. They do not affect its quantity
or flow. There is, therefore, no basis for a finding
of discrimination against interstate commerce.
The Commission, of course, is authorized to regulate
intrastate rates so that intrastate operations will provide
a fair share of the carriers' revenue. See Wisconsin
Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563.
But that authority rests on the Commission's power to
remove discrimination. If, for. example, intrastate freight
operations fail to produce an adequate return as determined by reference.to the cost of the intrastate operations
and the investment in the intrastate business, interstate
commerce is discriminated against. But there is no such
failure in this case. Intrastate freight operations in
Florida are amply profitable and carry their fair share
of the load. The Commission nevertheless has saddled
the intrastate freight business with the deficits from the
-interstate passenger business. If there is any discrimination here, it is against the local Florida shipper.
Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Florida v. United States, 282 U. S.
194; Georgia Commission v. United States, 283 U. S. 765; Louisiana
Commission v. Texas & N. 0. R. Co., 284 U. S.125; United States v.
Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70; North Carolina v. United States, 325 U. S.
507. .
.
,'Section 15a (2) of' the Act reads in pertinent part: "In'the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable rites the Commission
shall initiate, modify, establish or adjust such rates so that carriers as
a whole . . .will, under honest, efficient and economical management

and reasonable expenditures for maintenance of way, structures and
equipment, earn an aggregate annual net railway operating income
equal, as nearly as may be, to a fair return, upon the aggregate value
of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in the
service of transportation

. ..

KING v. UNITED STATES.
254

DOUGLAS,

279

J., dissenting.

The Commission surmises but does not find that the
intrastate passenger rates contribute to the passenger deficits of the carriers. But there is no showing that either
the intrastate passenger rates or the intrastate freight
rates do in fact contribute to these deficits. Moreover,
even if we assume that intrastate passenger rates do contribute to the passenger deficits, we do not know the
amount. The absence of these material findings (see
North Carolinav. United States, 325 U. S. 507) indicates
to me the short cut which the Commission is taking to
enlarge its jurisdiction to unprecedented limits.

