OCTOBER TERM, 2003
Syllabus

TILL ET UX. V. SCS CREDIT CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 02-1016. Argued December 2, 2003-Decided May 17, 2004
Under the so-called "cramdown .option" permitted by the Bankruptcy
Code, a Chapter 13 debtor's proposed debt adjustment plan must provide each allowed, secured creditor both a lien securing the claim and a
promise of future property disbursements whose total value, as of the
plan's date, "is not less than the [claim's] allowed amount," 11 U. S. C.
§ 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii). When such plans provide for installment payments,
each installment must be calibrated to ensure that the creditor receives
disbursements whose total present value equals or exceeds that of the
allowed claim. Respondent's retail installment contract on petitioners'
truck had a secured value of $4,000 at the time petitioners filed a Chapter 13 petition. Petitioners' proposed debt adjustment plan provided
the amount that would be distributed to creditors each month and that
petitioners would pay an annual 9.5% interest rate on respondent's secured claim. This "prime-plus" or "formula rate" was reached by augmenting the national prime rate of 8% to account for the nonpayment
risk posed by borrowers in petitioners' financial position. In confirming
the plan, the Bankruptcy Court overruled respondent's objection that it
was entitled to its contract interest rate of 21%. The District Court
reversed, ruling that the 21% "coerced loan rate" was appropriate because cramdown rates must be set at the level the creditor could have
obtained had it foreclosed on the loan, sold the collateral, and reinvested
the proceeds in equivalent loans. The Seventh Circuit modified that
approach, holding that the original contract rate was a "presumptive
rate" that could be challenged with evidence that a higher or lower rate
should apply, and remanding the case to the Bankruptcy Court to afford
the parties an opportunity to rebut the presumptive 21% rate. The
dissent proposed adoption of the formula approach, rejecting a "cost of
funds rate" that would simply ask what it would cost the creditor to
obtain the cash equivalent of the collateral from another source.
Held: The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded.
301 F. 3d 583, reversed and remanded.
JUSTICE STEVENS, joined by JUSTICE SOUTER, JUSTICE GINSBURG,
and JUSTICE BREYER, concluded that the prime-plus or formula rate
best meets the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code. Pp. 473-485.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.

Syllabus
(a) The Code gives little guidance as to which of the four interest
rates advocated by opinions in this case Congress intended when it
adopted the cramdown provision. A debtor's promise of future payments is worth less than an immediate lump-sum payment because the
creditor cannot use the money right away, inflation may cause the dollar's value to decline before the debtor pays, and there is a nonpayment
risk. In choosing an interest rate sufficient to compensate the creditor
for such concerns, bankruptcy courts must consider that: (1) Congress
likely intended bankruptcy judges and trustees to follow essentially the
same approach when choosing an appropriate interest rate under any of
the many Code provisions requiring a court to discount a stream of
deferred payments back to their present dollar value; (2) Chapter 13
expressly authorizes a bankruptcy court to modify the rights of a creditor whose claim is secured by an interest in anything other than the
debtor's principal residence; and (3) from a creditor's point of view, the
cramdown provision mandates an objective rather than a subjective inquiry. Pp. 473-477.
(b) These considerations lead to the conclusion that the coerced loan,
presumptive contract rate, and cost of funds approaches should be rejected, since they are complicated, impose significant evidentiary costs,
and aim to make each individual creditor whole rather than to ensure
that a debtor's payments have the required present value. Pp. 477-478.
(c) The formula approach has none of these defects. Taking its cue
from ordinary lending practices, it looks to the national prime rate,
which reflects the financial market's estimate of the amount a commercial bank should charge a creditworthy commercial borrower to compensate for the loan's opportunity costs, the inflation risk, and the relatively
slight default risk. A bankruptcy court is then required to adjust the
prime rate to account for the greater nonpayment risk that bankrupt
debtors typically pose. Because that adjustment depends on such factors as the estate's circumstances, the security's nature, and the reorganization plan's duration and feasibility, the court must hold a hearing to
permit the debtor and creditors to present evidence about the appropriate risk adjustment. Unlike the other approaches proposed in this
case, the formula approach entails a straightforward, familiar, and objective inquiry, and minimizes the need for potentially costly additional
evidentiary hearings. The resulting prime-plus rate also depends only
on the state of financial markets, the bankruptcy estate's circumstances,
and the loan's characteristics, not on the creditor's circumstances or its
prior interactions with the debtor. The risk adjustment's proper scale
is not before this Court. The Bankruptcy Court approved 1.5% in this
case, and other courts have generally approved 1% to 3%, but respondent claims a risk adjustment in this range is inadequate. The issue

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)

Syllabus
need not be resolved here; it is sufficient to note that courts must choose
a rate high enough to compensate a creditor for its risk but not so high
as to doom the bankruptcy plan. Pp. 478-481.
JUSTICE THOMAS concluded that the proposed 9.5% rate will sufficiently compensate respondent for the fact that it is receiving monthly
payments rather than a lump sum payment, but that 11 U. S. C.
§ 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) does not require that the proper interest rate reflect
the risk of nonpayment. Pp. 485-491.
(a) The plain language of § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) requires a court to determine, first, the allowed amount of the claim; second, what is the property

to be distributed under the plan; and third, the "value, as of the effective
date of the plan," of the property to be distributed. This third requirement, which is at issue here, incorporates the principle of the time value
of money. Section 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) requires valuation of the property,
not valuation of the plan. Thus, a plan need only propose an interest
rate that will compensate a creditor for the fact that had he received
the property immediately rather than at a future date, he could have
immediately made use of the property. In most, if not all, cases, where
the plan proposes simply a stream of cash payments, the appropriate
risk-free rate should suffice. There may be some risk of nonpayment,
but § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) does not take this risk into account. Respondent's
argument that § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) was crafted to protect creditors rather
than debtors ignores the statute's plain language and overlooks the fact
that secured creditors are compensated in part for the nonpayment risk
through the valuation of the secured claim. Further, the statute's plain
language is by no means debtor protective. Given the presence of multiple creditor-specific protections, it is not irrational to assume that Congress opted not to provide further protection for creditors by requiring
a debtor-specific risk adjustment under § 1325(a)(5). Pp. 486-490.
(b) Here, the allowed amount of the secured claim is $4,000, and the
property to be distributed under the plan is cash payments. Because
the proposed 9.5% interest rate is higher than the risk-free rate, it is
sufficient to account for the time value of money, which is all the statute
requires. Pp. 490-491.
STEVENS, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an
opinion, in which SOUTER, GINSBURG, and BREYER, JJ., joined. THOMAS,
J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 485. SCALIA, J.,
fied a dissenting opinion, in which REHNQUIST, C. J., and O'CONNOR and
KENNEDY, JJ., joined, post, p. 491.

Rebecca J. Harperargued the cause for petitioners.
her on the briefs was Annette F Rush.

With

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

David B. Salmons argued the cause pro hac vice for the
United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him
on the brief were Solicitor General Olson, Assistant Attorney General Keisler, Deputy Solicitor General Clement,
Robert M. Loeb, and Anthony A. Yang.
G. Eric Brunstad, Jr., argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were John M. Smith and Roger P.
Ralph.*
JUSTICE STEVENS announced the judgment of the Court
and delivered an opinion, in which JUSTICE SOUTER, JUSTICE
GINSBURG, and JUSTICE BREYER join.

To qualify for court approval under Chapter 13 of the
Bankruptcy Code, an individual debtor's proposed debt adjustment plan must accommodate each allowed, secured
creditor in one of three ways: (1) by obtaining the creditor's
acceptance of the plan; (2) by surrendering the property securing the claim; or (3) by providing the creditor both a lien
securing the claim and a promise of future property distributions (such as deferred cash payments) whose total "value,
as of the effective date of the plan,... is not less than the

allowed amount of such claim."'

The third alternative is

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AARP by
Brady C. Williamson, Elizabeth Warren, Jean Constantine-Davis,Nina
F Simon, and Michael R. Schuster; for the National Association of Chapter Thirteen Trustees by Henry E. Hildebrand III; and for the National
Association of Consumer Bankruptcy Attorneys et al. by James Justin
Haller.

James C. Schroederfied a brief for Allstate Life Insurance Co. et al. as
amici curiae urging affirmance.
111 U. S. C. § 1325(a)(5). The text of the statute reads as follows:
"§ 1325. Confirmation of plan
"(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), the court shall confirm a
plan if"(5) with respect to each allowed secured claim provided for by the
plan"(A) the holder of such claim has accepted the plan;

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

commonly known as the "cramdown option" because it may
be enforced over a claim holder's objection. 2 Associates
Commercial Corp. v. Rash, 520 U. S. 953, 957 (1997).
Plans that invoke the cramdown power often provide for
installment payments over a period of years rather than a
single payment. 3 In such circumstances, the amount of each
installment must be calibrated to ensure that, over time, the
creditor receives disbursements whose total present value 4
equals or exceeds that of the allowed claim. The proceedings in this case that led to our grant of certiorari identified four different methods of determining the appropriate
method with which to perform that calibration. Indeed, the
Bankruptcy Judge, the District Court, the Court of Appeals
majority, and the dissenting judge each endorsed a different
approach. We detail the underlying facts and describe each
of those approaches before setting forth our judgment as to
which approach best meets the purposes of the Bankruptcy
Code.
I
On October 2, 1998, petitioners Lee and Amy Till, residents of Kokomo, Indiana, purchased a used truck from Instant Auto Finance for $6,395 plus $330.75 in fees and taxes.
"(B)(i) the plan provides that the holder of such claim retain the lien
securing such claim; and
"(ii) the value, as of the effective date of the plan, of property to be
distributed under the plan on account of such claim is not less than the
allowed amount of such claim; or
"(C) the debtor surrenders the property securing such claim to such
holder ....
2As we noted in Associates Commercial Corp. v. Rash, 520 U. S. 953,
962 (1997), a debtor may also avail himself of the second option (surrender
of the collateral) despite the creditor's objection.
I See Rake v. Wade, 508 U. S. 464, 472, n. 8 (1993) (noting that property

distributions under § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) may take the form of "a stream of
future payments").
4
In the remainder of the opinion, we use the term "present value" to
refer to the value as of the effective date of the bankruptcy plan.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

They made a $300 downpayment and financed the balance of
the purchase price by entering into a retail installment contract that Instant Auto immediately assigned to respondent,
SCS Credit Corporation. Petitioners' initial indebtedness
amounted to $8,285.24-the $6,425.75 balance of the truck
purchase plus a finance charge of 21% per year for 136 weeks,
or $1,859.49. Under the contract, petitioners agreed to
make 68 biweekly payments to cover this debt; Instant
Auto-and subsequently respondent-retained a purchase
money security interest that gave it the right to repossess
the truck if petitioners defaulted under the contract.
On October 25, 1999, petitioners, by then in default on
their payments to respondent, filed a joint petition for relief
under Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code. At the time
of the filing, respondent's outstanding claim amounted to
$4,894.89, but the parties agreed that the truck securing the
claim was worth only $4,000. App. 16-17. In accordance
with the Bankruptcy Code, therefore, respondent's secured
claim was limited to $4,000, and the $894.89 balance was
unsecured.5 Petitioners' filing automatically stayed debtcollection activity by their various creditors, including the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS), respondent, three other
holders of secured claims, and unidentified unsecured creditors. In addition, the filing created a bankruptcy estate, administered by a trustee, which consisted of petitioners' prop6
erty, including the truck.
5

Title 11 U. S. C. § 506(a) provides:
"An allowed claim of a creditor secured by a lien on property in which

the estate has an interest ...is a secured claim to the extent of the value
of such creditor's interest in the estate's interest in such property,... and
is an unsecured claim to the extent that the value of such creditor's interest or the amount so subject to setoff is less than the amount of such
allowed claim. Such value shall be determined in light of the purpose of
the valuation and of the proposed disposition or use of such property, and
in conjunction with any hearing on such disposition or use or on a plan
affecting such creditor's interest."
6 See §§541(a), 1306(a).

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

Petitioners' proposed debt adjustment plan called for them
to submit their future earnings to the supervision and control
of the Bankruptcy Court for three years, and to assign $740
of their wages to the trustee each month. 7 App. to Pet. for
Cert. 76a-81a. The plan charged the trustee with distributing these monthly wage assignments to pay, in order of priority: (1) administrative costs; (2) the IRS's priority tax
claim; (3) secured creditors' claims; and finally, (4) unsecured
creditors' claims. Id., at 77a-79a.
The proposed plan also provided that petitioners would
pay interest on the secured portion of respondent's claim at
a rate of 9.5% per year. Petitioners arrived at this "primeplus" or "formula rate" by augmenting the national prime
rate of approximately 8% (applied by banks when making
low-risk loans) to account for the risk of nonpayment posed
by borrowers in their financial position. Respondent objected to the proposed rate, contending that the company
was "entitled to interest at the rate of 21%, which is the rate
...

it would obtain if it could foreclose on the vehicle and

reinvest the proceeds in loans of equivalent duration and risk
as the loan" originally made to petitioners. App. 19-20.
At the hearing on its objection, respondent presented expert testimony establishing that it uniformly charges 21%
interest on so-called "subprime" loans, or loans to borrowers
with poor credit ratings, and that other lenders in the subprime market also charge that rate. Petitioners countered
with the testimony of an Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis economics professor, who acknowledged
that he had only limited familiarity with the subprime auto
lending market, but described the 9.5% formula rate as "very
reasonable" given that Chapter 13 plans are "supposed to be
7Petitioners submitted an initial plan that would have required them to

assign $1,089 of their wages to the trustee every month. App. 9. Their
amended plan, however, reduced this monthly payment to $740. App. to
Pet. for Cert. 77a.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

financially feasible." 8 Id., at 43-44. Moreover, the professor noted that respondent's exposure was "fairly limited because [petitioners] are under the supervision of the court."
Id., at 43. The bankruptcy trustee also filed comments supporting the formula rate as, among other things, easily ascertainable, closely tied to the "condition of the financial market," and independent of the financial circumstances of any
particular lender. App. to Pet. for Cert. 41a-42a. Accepting petitioners' evidence, the Bankruptcy Court overruled
respondent's objection and confirmed the proposed plan.
The District Court reversed. It understood Seventh Circuit precedent to require that bankruptcy courts set cramdown interest rates at the level the creditor could have obtained if it had foreclosed on the loan, sold the collateral, and
reinvested the proceeds in loans of equivalent duration and
risk. Citing respondent's unrebutted testimony about the
market for subprime loans, the court concluded that 21% was
the appropriate rate. Id., at 38a.
On appeal, the Seventh Circuit endorsed a slightly modified version of the District Court's "coerced" or "forced loan"
approach. In re Till, 301 F. 3d 583, 591 (2002). Specifically,
the majority agreed with the District Court that, in a cramdown proceeding, the inquiry should focus on the interest
rate "that the creditor in question would obtain in making a
new loan in the same industry to a debtor who is similarly
situated, although not in bankruptcy." Id., at 592. To approximate that new loan rate, the majority looked to the parties' prebankruptcy contract rate (21%). The court recognized, however, that using the contract rate would not
"duplicat[e] precisely ... the present value of the collateral
to the creditor" because loans to bankrupt, court-supervised
debtors "involve some risks that would not be incurred in a

"The

requirement of financial feasibility derives from 11 U. S. C.

§ 1325(a)(6), which provides that the bankruptcy court shall "confirm a plan
if... the debtor will be able to make all payments under the plan and to
comply with the plan." See infra,at 480.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
Opinion of

STEVENS, J.

new loan to a debtor not in default" and also produce "some
economies." Ibid. To correct for these inaccuracies, the
majority held that the original contract rate should "serve
as a presumptive [cramdown] rate," which either the creditor
or the debtor could challenge with evidence that a higher or
lower rate should apply. Ibid. Accordingly, the court remanded the case to the Bankruptcy Court to afford petitioners and respondent an opportunity to rebut the presumptive
21% rate.9
Dissenting, Judge Rovner argued that the majority's presumptive contract rate approach overcompensates secured
creditors because it fails to account for costs a creditor would
have to incur in issuing a new loan. Rather than focusing
on the market for comparable loans, Judge Rovner advocated
the Bankruptcy Court's formula approach. Id., at 596. Although Judge Rovner noted that the rates produced by
either the formula or the cost of funds approach might be
"piddling" relative to the coerced loan rate, she suggested
courts should "consider the extent to which the creditor has
already been compensated for ... the risk that the debtor
will be unable to discharge his obligations under the reorganization plan... in the rate of interest that it charged to the
debtor in return for the original loan." Ibid. We granted
certiorari and now reverse. 539 U. S. 925 (2003).
II
The Bankruptcy Code provides little guidance as to which
of the rates of interest advocated by the four opinions in this
case--the formula rate, the coerced loan rate, the presumptive contract rate, or the cost of funds rate-Congress had
in mind when it adopted the cramdown provision. That provision, 11 U. S. C. § 1325(a)(5)(B), does not mention the term
"discount rate" or the word "interest." Rather, it simply
9
As 21% is the maximum interest rate creditors may charge for consumer loans under Indiana's usury statute, Ind. Code § 24-4.5-3-201
(1993), the remand presumably could not have benefited respondent.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

requires bankruptcy courts to ensure that the property to
be distributed to a particular secured creditor over the life
of a bankruptcy plan has a total "value, as of the effective date of the plan," that equals or exceeds the value of
the creditor's allowed secured claim-in this case, $4,000.
§ 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii).
That command is easily satisfied when the plan provides
for a lump-sum payment to the creditor. Matters are not so
simple, however, when the debt is to be discharged by a series of payments over time. A debtor's promise of future
payments is worth less than an immediate payment of the
same total amount because the creditor cannot use the
money right away, inflation may cause the value of the dollar
to decline before the debtor pays, and there is always some
risk of nonpayment. The challenge for bankruptcy courts
reviewing such repayment schemes, therefore, is to choose
an interest rate sufficient to compensate the creditor for
these concerns.
Three important considerations govern that choice.
First, the Bankruptcy Code includes numerous provisions
that, like the cramdown provision, require a court to "discoun[t] .

.

. [a] stream of deferred payments back to the[ir]

present dollar value," Rake v. Wade, 508 U. S. 464, 472, n. 8
(1993), to ensure that a creditor receives at least the value
of its claim. 10 We think it likely that Congress intended
bankruptcy judges and trustees to follow essentially the
same approach when choosing an appropriate interest rate
under any of these provisions. Moreover, we think Congress would favor an approach that is familiar in the financial
10 See 11 U. S. C. § 1129(a)(7)(A)(ii) (requiring payment of property whose "value, as of the effective date of the plan" equals or exceeds
the value of the creditor's claim); §§ 1129(a)(7)(B), 1129(a)(9)(B)(i),
1129(a)(9)(C), 1129(b)(2)(A)(i)(II), 1129(b)(2)(B)(i), 1129(b)(2)(C)(i),
1173(a)(2), 1225(a)(4), 1225(a)(5)(B)(ii), 1228(b)(2), 1325(a)(4), 1228(b)(2)
(same).

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

community and that minimizes the need for expensive evidentiary proceedings.
Second, Chapter 13 expressly authorizes a bankruptcy
court to modify the rights of any creditor whose claim is
secured by an interest in anything other than "real property that is the debtor's principal residence." 11 U. S. C.
§ 1322(b)(2)." Thus, in cases like this involving secured in-

terests in personal property, the court's authority to modify
the number, timing, or amount of the installment payments
from those set forth in the debtor's original contract is perfectly clear. Further, the potential need to modify the loan

terms to account for intervening changes in circumstances is
also clear: On the one hand, the fact of the bankruptcy establishes that the debtor is overextended and thus poses a significant risk of default; on the other hand, the postbankruptcy obligor is no longer the individual debtor but the

court-supervised estate, and the risk of default is thus some12

what reduced.

n Section 1322(b)(2) provides:
"[T]he plan may ... modify the rights of holders of secured claims, other
than a claim secured only by a security interest in real property that is the
debtor's principal residence,.... or leave unaffected the rights of holders of
any class of claims."
12Several factors contribute to this reduction in risk. First, as noted
below, infra, at 480, a court may only approve a cramdown loan (and the
debt adjustment plan of which the loan is a part) if it believes the debtor
will be able to make all of the required payments. § 1325(a)(6). Thus,
such loans will only be approved for debtors that the court deems creditworthy. Second, Chapter 13 plans must "provide for the submission" to
the trustee "of all or such portion of [the debtor's] future ... income...
as is necessary for the execution of the plan," § 1322(a)(1), so the possibility
of nonpayment is greatly reduced. Third, the Bankruptcy Codes extensive disclosure requirements reduce the risk that the debtor has significant
undisclosed obligations. Fourth, as a practical matter, the public nature
of the bankruptcy proceeding is likely to reduce the debtor's opportunities
to take on additional debt. Cf. 11 U. S. C. § 525 (prohibiting certain Government grant and loan programs from discriminating against applicants
who are or have been bankrupt).

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

Third, from the point of view of a creditor, the cramdown
provision mandates an objective rather than a subjective inquiry.13 That is, although § 1325(a)(5)(B) entitles the creditor to property whose present value objectively equals or
exceeds the value of the collateral, it does not require that
the terms of the cramdown loan match the terms to which
the debtor and creditor agreed prebankruptcy, nor does it
require that the cramdown terms make the creditor subjectively indifferent between present foreclosure and future
payment. Indeed, the very idea of a "cramdown" loan precludes the latter result: By definition, a creditor forced to
accept such a loan would prefer instead to foreclose. 14 Thus,
a court choosing a cramdown interest rate need not consider
the creditor's individual circumstances, such as its prebankruptcy dealings with the debtor or the alternative loans it
18 We reached a similar conclusion in Associates Commercial Corp. v.
Rash, 520 U. S. 953 (1997), when we held that a creditor's secured interest
should be valued from the debtor's, rather than the creditor's, perspective.
Id., at 963 ("[The debtor's] actual use, rather than a foreclosure sale that
will not take place, is the proper guide...").
14This fact helps to explain why there is no readily apparent Chapter
13 "cramdown market rate of interest": Because every cramdown loan
is imposed by a court over the objection of the secured creditor, there
is no free market of willing cramdown lenders. Interestingly, the same
is not true in the Chapter 11 context, as numerous lenders advertise
financing for Chapter 11 debtors in possession. See, e. g., Balmoral
Financial Corporation, http://www.balmoral.com/bdip.htm (all Internet
materials as visited Mar. 4, 2004, and available in Clerk of Court's case
file) (advertising debtor in possession lending); Debtor in Possession
Financing: 1st National Assistance Finance Association DIP Division,
http'//www.loanmallusa.confdip.htm (offering "to tailor a financing program... to your business' needs and ... to work closely with your bankruptcy counsel"). Thus, when picking a cramdown rate in a Chapter 11
case, it might make sense to ask what rate an efficient market would
produce. In the Chapter 13 context, by contrast, the absence of any such
market obligates courts to look to first principles and ask only what rate
will fairly compensate a creditor for its exposure.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

could make if permitted to foreclose. 15 Rather, the court
should aim to treat similarly situated creditors similarly, 6
and to ensure that an objective economic analysis would suggest the debtor's interest payments will adequately compensate all such creditors for the time value of their money and
the risk of default.
III
These considerations lead us to reject the coerced loan,
presumptive contract rate, and cost of funds approaches.
Each of these approaches is complicated, imposes significant
evidentiary costs, and aims to make each individual creditor
whole rather than to ensure the debtor's payments have the
required present value. For example, the coerced loan approach requires bankruptcy courts to consider evidence
about the market for comparable loans to similar (though
nonbankrupt) debtors-an inquiry far removed from such
courts' usual task of evaluating debtors' financial circumstances and the feasibility of their debt adjustment plans.
In addition, the approach overcompensates creditors because
the market lending rate must be high enough to cover factors, like lenders' transaction costs and overall profits, that
are no longer relevant in the context of court-administered
and court-supervised cramdown loans.
Like the coerced loan approach, the presumptive contract
rate approach improperly focuses on the creditor's potential
use of the proceeds of a foreclosure sale. In addition, although the approach permits a debtor to introduce some evidence about each creditor, thereby enabling the court to tailor the interest rate more closely to the creditor's financial
circumstances and reducing the likelihood that the creditor
15 See supra, at 472 (noting that the District Court's coerced loan approach aims to set the cramdown interest rate at the level the creditor
could obtain from new loans of comparable duration and risk).
16 Cf. 11 U. S. C. § 1322(a)(3) ("The plan shall.., provide the same treatment for each claim within a particular class").

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

will be substantially overcompensated, that right comes at a
cost: The debtor must obtain information about the creditor's
costs of overhead, financial circumstances, and lending practices to rebut the presumptive contract rate. Also, the approach produces absurd results, entitling "inefficient, poorly
managed lenders" with lower profit margins to obtain higher
cramdown rates than "well managed, better capitalized lenders." 2 K. Lundin, Chapter 13 Bankruptcy § 112.1, p. 112-8
(3d ed. 2000). Finally, because the approach relies heavily
on a creditor's prior dealings with the debtor, similarly situated creditors may end up with vastly different cramdown
17
rates.

The cost of funds approach, too, is improperly aimed. Although -it rightly disregards the now-irrelevant terms of the
parties' original contract, it mistakenly focuses on the creditworthiness of the creditor rather than the debtor. In addition, the approach has many of the other flaws of the coerced
loan and presumptive contract rate approaches. For example, like the presumptive contract rate approach, the cost of
funds approach imposes a significant evidentiary burden, as
a debtor seeking to rebut a creditor's asserted cost of borrowing must introduce expert testimony about the creditor's
financial condition. Also, under this approach, a creditworthy lender with a low cost of borrowing may obtain a
lower cramdown rate than a financially unsound, fly-bynight lender.
IV
The formula approach has none of these defects. Taking
its cue from ordinary lending practices, the approach begins
'7 For example, suppose a debtor purchases two identical used cars, buying the first at a low purchase price from a lender who charges high interest, and buying the second at a much higher purchase price from a lender
who charges zero-percent or nominal interest. Prebankruptcy, these two
loans might well produce identical income streams for the two lenders.
Postbankruptcy, however, the presumptive contract rate approach would
entitle the first lender to a considerably higher cramdown interest rate,
even though the two secured debts are objectively indistinguishable.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

by looking to the national prime rate, reported daily in the
press, which reflects the financial market's estimate of the
amount a commercial bank should charge a creditworthy
commercial borrower to compensate for the opportunity
costs of the loan, the risk of inflation, and the relatively slight
risk of default.18 Because bankrupt debtors typically pose a
greater risk of nonpayment than solvent commercial borrowers, the approach then requires a bankruptcy court to adjust
the prime rate accordingly. The appropriate size of that
risk adjustment depends, of course, on such factors as the
circumstances of the estate, the nature of the security, and
the duration and feasibility of the reorganization plan. The
court must therefore hold a hearing at which the debtor and
any creditors may present evidence about the appropriate
risk adjustment. Some of this evidence will be included
in the debtor's bankruptcy filings, however, so the debtor
and creditors may not incur significant additional expense.
Moreover, starting from a concededly low estimate and adjusting upward places the evidentiary burden squarely on
the creditors, who are likely to have readier access to any
information absent from the debtor's filing (such as evidence
about the "liquidity of the collateral market," post, at 499
(SCALIA, J., dissenting)). Finally, many of the factors relevant to the adjustment fall squarely within the bankruptcy
court's area of expertise.
Thus, unlike the coerced loan, presumptive contract rate,
and cost of funds approaches, the formula approach entails a
straightforward, familiar, and objective inquiry, and minimizes the need for potentially costly additional evidentiary
proceedings. Moreover, the resulting "prime-plus" rate of
interest depends only on the state of financial markets, the
circumstances of the bankruptcy estate, and the characteristics of the loan, not on the creditor's circumstances or its
prior interactions with the debtor. For these reasons, the
I8 We note that, if the court could somehow be certain a debtor would
complete his plan, the prime rate would be adequate to compensate any
secured creditors forced to accept cramdown loans.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

prime-plus or formula rate best comports with the purposes
of the Bankruptcy Code. 19
We do not decide the proper scale for the risk adjustment,
as the issue is not before us. The Bankruptcy Court in this
case approved a risk adjustment of 1.5%, App. to Pet. for
Cert. 44a-73a, and other courts have generally approved adjustments of 1% to 3%, see In re Valenti, 105 F. 3d 55, 64
(CA2) (collecting cases), abrogated on other grounds by Associates Commercial Corp. v. Rash, 520 U. S. 953 (1997).
Respondent's core argument is that a risk adjustment in this
range is entirely inadequate to compensate a creditor for the
real risk that the plan will fail. There is some dispute about
the true scale of that risk-respondent claims that more than
60% of Chapter 13 plans fail, Brief for Respondent 25, but
petitioners argue that the failure rate for approved Chapter
13 plans is much lower, Tr. of Oral Arg. 9. We need not
resolve that dispute. It is sufficient for our purposes to note
that, under 11 U. S. C. § 1325(a)(6), a court may not approve
a plan unless, after considering all creditors' objections and
receiving the advice of the trustee, the judge is persuaded
that "the debtor will be able to make all payments under the
plan and to comply with the plan." Ibid. Together with
the cramdown provision, this requirement obligates the
court to select a rate high enough to compensate the creditor
for its risk but not so high as to doom the plan. If the court
determines that the likelihood of default is so high as to ne19

The fact that Congress considered but rejected legislation that would
endorse the Seventh Circuit's presumptive contract rate approach, H. R.
1085, 98th Cong., 1st Sess., §19(2)(A) (1983); H. R. 1169, 98th Cong., 1st
Sess., § 19(2)(A) (1983); H. R. 4786, 97th Cong., 1st Sess., § 19(2)(A) (1981),
lends some support to our conclusion. It is perhaps also relevant that our
conclusion is endorsed by the Executive Branch of the Government and by
the National Association of Chapter Thirteen Trustees. Brief for United
States as Amicus Curiae; Brief for National Association of Chapter Thirteen Trustees as Amicus Curiae. If we have misinterpreted Congress'
intended meaning of "value, as of the date of the plan," we are confident
it will enact appropriate remedial legislation.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

cessitate an "eye-popping" interest rate, 301 F. 3d, at 593
(Rovner, J., dissenting), the plan probably should not be
confirmed.
V
The dissent's endorsement of the presumptive contract
rate approach rests on two assumptions: (1) "subprime lending markets are competitive and therefore largely efficient";
and (2) the risk of default in Chapter 13 is normally no less
than the risk of default at the time of the original loan.
Post, at 492-493. Although the Bankruptcy Code provides
little guidance on the question, we think it highly unlikely
that Congress would endorse either premise.
First, the dissent assumes that subprime loans are negotiated between fully informed buyers and sellers in a classic
free market. But there is no basis for concluding that Congress relied on this assumption when it enacted Chapter
13. Moreover, several considerations suggest that the subprime market is not, in fact, perfectly competitive. To
begin with, used vehicles are regularly sold by means of
tie-in transactions, in which the price of the vehicle is the
subject of negotiation, while the terms of the financing are
dictated by the seller.20 In addition, there is extensive fed2 The dissent notes that "[lie-ins do not alone make financing markets
noncompetitive; they only cause prices and interest rates to be considered
in tandem rather than separately." Post, at 495. This statement, while
true, is nonresponsive. If a market prices the cost of goods and the cost
of financing together, then even if that market is perfectly competitive, all
we can know is that the combined price of the goods and the financing is
competitive and efficient. We have no way of determining whether the
allocation of that price between goods and financing would be the same if
the two components were separately negotiated. But the only issue before us is the cramdown interest rate (the cost of financing); the value of
respondent's truck (the cost of the goods) is fixed. See Rash, 520 U. S.,
at 960 (setting the value of collateral in Chapter 13 proceedings at the
"price a willing buyer in the debtor's trade, business, or situation would
pay to obtain like property from a willing seller"). The competitiveness
of the market for cost-cum-financing is thus irrelevant to our analysis.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

eral 21 and state I regulation of subprime lending, which not
only itself distorts the market, but also evinces regulators'
belief that unregulated subprime lenders would exploit borrowers' ignorance and charge rates above what a competitive
market would allow.2 Indeed, Congress enacted the Truth
in Lending Act in part because it believed "consumers would
individually benefit not only from the more informed use of
credit, but also from heightened competition which would result from more knowledgeable credit shopping." S. Rep.
No. 96-368, p. 16 (1979).2
Second, the dissent apparently believes that the debtor's
prebankruptcy default-on a loan made in a market in which

creditors commonly charge the maximum rate of interest allowed by law, Brief for Respondent 16, and in which neither
creditors nor debtors have the protections afforded by Chapter 13-translates into a high probability that the same debtor's confirmed Chapter 13 plan will fail. In our view, however, Congress intended to create a program under which
plans that qualify for confirmation have a high probability of
success. Perhaps bankruptcy judges currently confirm too
21For example, the Truth in Lending Act regulates credit transactions
and credit advertising. 15 U. S. C. §§ 1604-1649, 1661-1665b.
Usury laws provide the most obvious examples of state regulation of
the subprime market. See, e.g., Colo. Rev. Stat. §5-2-201 (2003); Fla.
Stat. Ann. § 537.011 (Supp. 2004); Ind. Code § 24-4.5-3-201 (1993); Md.
Com. Law Code Ann. § 12-404(d) (2000).
2 Lending practices in Mississippi, "where there currently is no legal
usury rate," support this conclusion: In that State, subprime lenders
charge rates "as high as 30 to 40%"-well above the rates that apparently
suffice to support the industry in States like Indiana. Norberg, Consumer
Bankruptcy's New Clothes: An Empirical Study of Discharge and Debt
Collection
in Chapter 13, 7 Am. Bankr. Inst. L. Rev. 415, 438-439 (1999).
24
See also H. R. Rep. No. 1040, 90th Cong., 1st Sess., 17 (1967) ("The
basic premise of the application of disclosure standards to credit advertising rests in the belief that a substantial portion of consumer purchases are
induced by such advertising and that if full disclosure is not made in such
advertising, the consumer will be deprived of the opportunity to effectively comparison shop for credit").

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

many risky plans, but the solution is to confirm fewer such
plans, not to set default cramdown rates at absurdly high
levels, thereby increasing the risk of default.
Indeed, as JUSTICE THOMAS demonstrates, post, at 487
(opinion concurring in judgment), the text of § 1325(a)(5)

(B)(ii) may be read to support the conclusion that Congress
did not intend the cramdown rate to include any compensation for the risk of default.2 That reading is consistent with
a view that Congress believed Chapter 13's protections to be
so effective as to make the risk of default negligible. Because our decision in Rash assumes that cramdown interest
rates are adjusted to "offset," to the extent possible, the risk
of default, 520 U. S., at 962-963, and because so many judges
who have considered the issue (including the authors of the
four earlier opinions in this case) have rejected the risk-free
approach, we think it too late in the day to endorse that
approach now. Of course, if the text of the statute required
such an approach, that would be the end of the matter. We
think, however, that § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii)'s reference to "value,
as of the effective date of the plan, of property to be distributed under the plan" is better read to incorporate all of the
commonly understood components of "present value," includ-

ing any risk of nonpayment.

JUSTICE THOMAS'

reading does

emphasize, though, that a presumption that bankruptcy
plans will succeed is more consistent with Congress' statutory scheme than the dissent's more cynical focus on bankrupt debtors' "financial instability and . . . proclivity to seek
legal protection," post, at 493.
Furthermore, the dissent's two assumptions do not necessarily favor the presumptive contract rate approach. For
one thing, the cramdown provision applies not only to subThe United States, too, notes that "[t]he text of Section 1325 is consistent with the view that the appropriate discount rate should reflect only
the time value of money and not any risk premium." Brief for United
States as Amicus Curiae 11, n. 4. The remainder of the United States'
brief, however, advocates the formula approach. See, e. g., id., at 19-28.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

prime loans but also to prime loans negotiated prior to the
change in circumstance (job loss, for example) that rendered
the debtor insolvent. Relatedly, the provision also applies
in instances in which national or local economic conditions
drastically improved or declined after the original loan was
issued but before the debtor filed for bankruptcy. In either
case, there is every reason to think that a properly riskadjusted prime rate will provide a better estimate of the
creditor's current costs and exposure than a contract rate set
in different times.
Even more important, if all relevant information about the
debtor's circumstances, the creditor's circumstances, the nature of the collateral, and the market for comparable loans
were equally available to both debtor and creditor, then
in theory the formula and presumptive contract rate approaches would yield the same final interest rate. Thus, we
principally differ with the dissent not over what final rate
courts should adopt but over which party (creditor or debtor)
should bear the burden of rebutting the presumptive rate
(prime or contract, respectively).
JUSTICE SCALIA identifies four "relevant factors bearing
on risk premium[:] (1) the probability of plan failure; (2) the
rate of collateral depreciation; (3) the liquidity of the collateral market; and (4) the administrative expenses of enforcement." Post, at 499. In our view, any information debtors
have about any of these factors is likely to be included in
their bankruptcy filings, while the remaining information
will be far more accessible to creditors (who must collect information about their lending markets to remain competitive) than to individual debtors (whose only experience with
those markets might be the single loan at issue in the case).
Thus, the formula approach, which begins with a concededly
low estimate of the appropriate interest rate and requires
the creditor to present evidence supporting a higher rate,
places the evidentiary burden on the more knowledgeable

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
THOMAS,

J., concurring in judgment

party, thereby facilitating more accurate calculation of the
appropriate interest rate.
If the rather sketchy data uncovered by the dissent support an argument that Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code
should mandate application of the presumptive contract rate
approach (rather than merely an argument that bankruptcy
judges should exercise greater caution before approving debt
adjustment plans), those data should be forwarded to Congress. We are not persuaded, however, that the data undermine our interpretation of the statutory scheme Congress
has enacted.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the
case is remanded with instructions to remand the case to the
Bankruptcy Court for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.
concurring in the judgment.
This case presents the issue of what the proper method is
for discounting deferred payments to present value and what
compensation the creditor is entitled to in calculating the
appropriate discount rate *of interest. Both the plurality
and the dissent agree that "[a] debtor's promise of future
payments is worth less than an immediate payment of the
same total amount because the creditor cannot use the
money right away, inflation may cause the value of the dollar
to decline before the debtor pays, and there is always some
risk of nonpayment." Ante, at 474; post, at 491. Thus, the
plurality and the dissent agree that the proper method for
discounting deferred payments to present value should take
into account each of these factors, but disagree over the
proper starting point for calculating the risk of nonpayment.
I agree that a "promise of future payments is worth less
than an immediate payment" of the same amount, in part
because of the risk of nonpayment. But this fact is irrelevant. The statute does not require that the value of the
JUSTICE THOMAS,

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
THOMAS, J.,

concurring in judgment

promise to distribute property under the plan be no less than
the allowed amount of the secured creditor's claim. It requires only that "the value ... of property to be distributed
under the plan," at the time of the effective date of the plan,
be no less than the amount of the secured creditor's claim.
11 U. S. C. § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) (emphasis added). Both the
plurality and the dissent ignore the clear text of the statute
in an apparent rush to ensure that secured creditors are not
undercompensated in bankruptcy proceedings. But the
statute that Congress enacted does not require a debtorspecific risk adjustment that would put secured creditors in
the same position as if they had made another loan. It is
for this reason that I write separately.
I
"It is well established that 'when the statute's language
is plain, the sole function of the courts-at least where the
disposition required by the text is not absurd-is to enforce
it according to its terms."' Lamie v. United States Trustee,
540 U. S. 526, 534 (2004) (quoting Hartford UnderwritersIns.
Co. v. Union Planters Bank, N. A., 530 U. S. 1, 6 (2000)).
Section 1325(a)(5)(B) provides that "with respect to each allowed secured claim provided for by the plan," "the value,
as of the effective date of the plan, of property to be distributed under the plan on account of such claim [must] not [be]
less than the allowed amount of such claim." Thus, the statute requires a bankruptcy court to make at least three separate determinations. First, a court must determine the allowed amount of the claim. Second, a court must determine
what is the "property to be distributed under the plan."
Third, a court must determine the "value, as of the effective
date of the plan," of the property to be distributed.
The dispute in this case centers on the proper method to
determine the "value, as of the effective date of the plan, of
property to be distributed under the plan." The requirement that the "value" of the property to be distributed be

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
THOMAS, J.,

concurring in judgment

determined "as of the effective date of the plan" incorporates
the principle of the time value of money. To put it simply,
$4,000 today is worth more than $4,000 to be received 17
months from today because if received today, the $4,000 can
be invested to start earning interest immediately.' See G.
Munn, F. Garcia, & C. Woelfel, Encyclopedia of Banking &
Finance 1015 (rev. 9th ed. 1991). Thus, as we explained in
Rake v. Wade, 508 U. S. 464 (1993), "[w]hen a claim is paid
off pursuant to a stream of future payments, a creditor receives the 'present value' of its claim only if the total amount
of the deferred payments includes the amount of the underlying claim plus an appropriate amount of interest to compensate the creditor for the decreased value of the claim caused
by the delayed payments." Id., at 472, n. 8.
Respondent argues, and the plurality and the dissent
agree, that the proper interest rate must also reflect the risk
of nonpayment. But the statute contains no such requirement. The statute only requires the valuation of the "property to be distributed," not the valuation of the plan (i. e.,
the promise to make the payments itself). Thus, in order
for a plan to satisfy § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii), the plan need only propose an interest rate that will compensate a creditor for the
fact that if he had received the property immediately rather
than at a future date, he could have immediately made use
of the property. In most, if not all, cases, where the plan
proposes simply a stream of cash payments, the appropriate
risk-free rate should suffice.
Respondent here would certainly be acutely aware of any
risk of default inherent in a Chapter 13 plan, but it is nonsensical to speak of a debtor's risk of default being inherent in
the value of "property" unless that property is a promise or
I For example, if the relevant interest rate is 10%, receiving $4,000 one
year from now is the equivalent to receiving $3,636.36 today. In other
words, an investor would be indifferent to receiving $3,636.36 today and
receiving $4,000 one year from now because each will equal $4,000 one
year from now.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

a debt. Suppose, for instance, that it is currently time A,
the property to be distributed is a house, and it will be
distributed at time B. Although market conditions might
cause the value of the house to fluctuate between time A and
time B, the fluctuating value of the house itself has nothing
to do with the risk that the debtor will not deliver the house
at time B. The value of the house, then, can be and is determined entirely without any reference to any possibility that
a promise to transfer the house would not be honored. So
too, then, with cash: the value of the cash can be and is determined without any inclusion of any risk that the debtor will
fail to transfer the cash at the appropriate time.
The dissent might be correct that the use of the prime
rate,2 even with a small risk adjustment, "will systematically
undercompensate secured creditors for the true risks of default." Post, at 492.3 This systematic undercompensation
might seem problematic as a matter of policy. But, it raises
no problem as a matter of statutory interpretation. Thus,
although there is always some risk of nonpayment when A
promises to repay a debt to B through a stream of payments
over time rather than through an immediate lump-sum payment, § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) does not take this risk into account.
This is not to say that a debtor's risk of nonpayment can
never be a factor in determining the value of the property
to be distributed. Although "property" is not defined in the
Bankruptcy Code, nothing in § 1325 suggests that "property"
is limited to cash. Rather, "'property' can be cash, notes,
stock, personal property or real property; in short, anything
of value." 7 Collier on Bankruptcy 1129.03[7][b][i],
p. 1129-44 (rev. 15th ed. 2003) (discussing Chapter l's cramdown provision). And if the "property to be distributed"
2The prime rate is "[tlhe interest rate most closely approximating the
riskless or pure rate for money." G. Munn, F. Garcia, & C. Woelfel, Encyclopedia of Banking & Finance 830 (rev. 9th ed. 1991).
3Of course, in an efficient market, this risk has been (or will be) built

into the interest rate of the original loan.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

under a Chapter 13 plan is a note (i. e., a promise to pay), for
instance, the value of that note necessarily includes .the risk
that the debtor will not make good on that promise. Still,
accounting for the risk of nonpayment in that case is not
equivalent to reading a risk adjustment requirement into the
statute, as in the case of a note, the risk of nonpayment is
part of the value of the note itself.
Respondent argues that "Congress crafted the requirements of section 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) for the protection of creditors, not debtors," and thus that the relevant interest rate
must account for the true risks and costs associated with a
Chapter 13 debtor's promise of future payment. Brief for
Respondent 24 (citing Johnson v. Home State Bank, 501 U. S.
78, 87-88 (1991)). In addition to ignoring the plain language
of the statute, which requires no such risk adjustment,
respondent overlooks the fact that secured creditors are
already compensated in part for the risk of nonpayment
through the valuation of the secured claim. In Associates
Commercial Corp. v. Rash, 520 U. S. 953 (1997), we utilized a
secured-creditor-friendly replacement-value standard rather
than the lower foreclosure-value standard for valuing secured claims when a debtor has exercised Chapter 13's cramdown option. We did so because the statute at issue in that
case reflected Congress' recognition that "[i]f a debtor keeps
the property and continues to use it, the creditor obtains at
once neither the property nor its value and is exposed to
double risks: The debtor may again default and the property
may deteriorate from extended use." Id., at 962.
Further, the plain language of the statute is by no means
specifically debtor protective. As the Court pointed out in
Johnson, supra, at 87-88, § 1325 contains a number of provisions to protect creditors: A bankruptcy court can only
authorize a plan that "has been proposed in good faith,"
§ 1325(a)(3); secured creditors must accept the plan, obtain
the property securing the claim, or "retain the[ir] lien[s]" and
receive under the plan distributions of property which equal

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
THOMAS, J.,

concurring in judgment

"not less than the allowed amount of such claim," § 1325(a)(5);
and a bankruptcy court must ensure that "the debtor will be
able to make all payments under the plan and to comply with
the plan," § 1325(a)(6). Given the presence of multiple
creditor-specific protections, it is by no means irrational to
assume that Congress opted not to provide further protection for creditors by requiring a debtor-specific risk adjustment under § 1325(a)(5). Although the dissent may feel that
this is insufficient compensation for secured creditors, given
the apparent rate at which debtors fail to complete their
Chapter 13 plans, see post, at 493, and n. 1, this is a matter
that should be brought to the attention of Congress rather
than resolved by this Court.
II

The allowed amount of the secured claim is $4,000. App.
57. The statute then requires a bankruptcy court to identify
the "property to be distributed" under the plan. Petitioners' Amended Chapter 13 Plan (Plan) provided:
"The future earnings of DEBTOR(S) are submitted to
the supervision and control of this Court, and DEBTOR(S) shall pay to the TRUSTEE a sum of $740... per
month in weekly installments by voluntary wage assignment by separate ORDER of the Court in an estimated
amount of $170.77 and continuing for a total plan term
of 36 months unless this Court approves an extension of
the term not beyond 60 months from the date of filing
the Petition herein." App. to Pet. for Cert. 77a.
From the payments received, the trustee would then make
disbursements to petitioners' creditors, pro rata among each
class of creditors. The Plan listed one priority claim and
four secured claims. For respondent's secured claim, petitioners proposed an interest rate of 9.5%. App. 57. Thus,
petitioners proposed to distribute to respondent a stream of
cash payments equaling respondent's pro rata share of $740
per month for a period of up to 36 months. Id., at 12.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

Although the Plan does not specifically state that "the
property to be distributed" under the Plan is cash payments,
the cash payments are the only "property" specifically listed
for distribution under the Plan. Thus, although the plurality and the dissent imply that the "property to be distributed" under the Plan is the mere promise to make cash payments, the plain language of the Plan indicates that the
"property to be distributed" to respondent is up to 36
monthly cash payments, consisting of a pro rata share of $740
per month.
The final task, then, is to determine whether petitioners'
proposed 9.5% interest rate will sufficiently compensate respondent for the fact that instead of receiving $4,000 today,
it will receive $4,000 plus 9.5% interest over a period of up

to 36 months. Because the 9.5% rate is higher than the
risk-free rate, I conclude that it will. I would therefore reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
JUSTICE SCALIA, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE, JUSTICE
O'CONNOR, and JUSTICE KENNEDY join, dissenting.

My areas of agreement with the plurality are substantial.
We agree that, although all confirmed Chapter 13 plans have
been deemed feasible by a bankruptcy judge, some nevertheless fail. See ante, at 480. We agree that any deferred payments to a secured creditor must fully compensate it for the
risk that such a failure will occur. See ante, at 474. Fi-

nally, we agree that adequate compensation may sometimes
require an "'eye-popping"' interest rate, and that, if the rate
is too high for the plan to succeed, the appropriate course is
not to reduce it to a more palatable level, but to refuse to
confirm the plan. See ante, at 480-481.
Our only disagreement is over what procedure will more
often produce accurate estimates of the appropriate interest
rate. The plurality would use the prime lending rate-a
rate we know is too low-and require the judge in every case
to determine an amount by which to increase it. I believe

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

that, in practice, this approach will systematically undercompensate secured creditors for the true risks of default.
I would instead adopt the contract rate-i. e., the rate at
which the creditor actually loaned funds to the debtor-as a
presumption that the bankruptcy judge could revise on motion of either party. Since that rate is generally a good indicator of actual risk, disputes should be infrequent, and it will
provide a quick and reasonably accurate standard.

The contract-rate approach makes two assumptions, both
of which are reasonable. First, it assumes that subprime
lending markets are competitive and therefore largely efficient. If so, the high interest rates lenders charge reflect
not extortionate profits or excessive costs, but the actual
risks of default that subprime borrowers present. Lenders
with excessive rates would be undercut by their competitors,
and inefficient ones would be priced out of the market. We
have implicitly assumed market competitiveness in other
bankruptcy contexts. See Bank of America Nat. Trust and
Say. Assn. v. 203 North LaSalle Street Partnership,526 U. S.
434, 456-458 (1999). Here the assumption is borne out by
empirical evidence: One study reports that subprime lenders
are nearly twice as likely to be unprofitable as banks, suggesting a fiercely competitive environment. See J. Lane,
Associate Director, Division of Supervision, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, A Regulator's View of Subprime
Lending: Address at the National Automotive Finance Association Non-Prime Auto Lending Conference 6 (June 18-19,
2002) (available in Clerk of Court's case file). By relying on
the prime rate, the plurality implicitly assumes that the
prime lending market is efficient, see ante, at 478-479; I see
no reason not to make a similar assumption about the subprime lending market.
The second assumption is that the expected costs of default in Chapter 13 are normally no less than those at the

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

time of lending. This assumption is also reasonable. Chapter 13 plans often fail. I agree with petitioners that the relevant statistic is the percentage of confirmed plans that fail,
but even resolving that issue in their favor, the risk is still
substantial. The failure rate they offer-which we may
take to be a conservative estimate, as it is doubtless the lowest one they could find-is 37%. See Girth, The Role of Empirical Data in Developing Bankruptcy Legislation for Individuals, 65 Ind. L. J. 17, 40-42 (1989) (reporting a 63.1%
success rate).' In every one of the failed plans making up
that 37%, a bankruptcy judge had found that "the debtor will
be able to make all payments under the plan," 11 U. S. C.
§ 1325(a)(6), and a trustee had supervised the debtor's compliance, § 1302. That so many nonetheless failed proves that
bankruptcy judges are not oracles and that trustees cannot
draw blood from a stone.
While court and trustee oversight may provide some marginal benefit to the creditor, it seems obviously outweighed
by the fact that (1) an already-bankrupt borrower has demonstrated a financial instability and a proclivity to seek legal
protection that other subprime borrowers have not, and
IThe true rate of plan failure is almost certainly much higher. The
Girth study that yielded the 37% figure was based on data for a single
division (Buffalo, New York) from over 20 years ago (1980-1982). See 65
Ind. L. J., at 41. A later study concluded that "the Buffalo division ha[d]
achieved extraordinary results, far from typical for the country as a
whole." Whitford, The Ideal of Individualized Justice: Consumer Bankruptcy as Consumer Protection, and Consumer Protection in Consumer
Bankruptcy, 68 Am. Bankr. L. J. 397, 411, n. 50 (1994). Although most
of respondent's figures are based on studies that do not clearly exclude
unconfirmed plans, one study includes enough detail to make the necessary
correction: It finds 32% of filings successful, 18% dismissed without confirmation of a plan, and 49% dismissed after confirmation, for a postconfirmation failure rate of 60% (i. e., 49% -(32% + 49%)). See Norberg, Consumer Bankruptcy's New Clothes: An Empirical Study of Discharge and
Debt Collection in Chapter 13, 7 Am. Bankr. Inst. L. Rev. 415, 440-441
(1999). This 60% failure rate is far higher than the 37% reported by
Girth.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

(2) the costs of foreclosure are substantially higher in bankruptcy because the automatic stay bars repossession without
judicial permission. See §362. It does not strike me as
plausible that creditors would prefer to lend to individuals
already in bankruptcy than to those for whom bankruptcy is
merely a possibility-as if Chapter 13 were widely viewed
by secured creditors as some sort of godsend. Cf. Dunagan,
Enforcement of Security Interests in Motor Vehicles in
Bankruptcy, 52 Consumer Fin. L. Q. Rep. 191, 197 (1998).
Certainly the record in this case contradicts that implausible
proposition. See App. 48 (testimony of Craig Cook, sales
manager of Instant Auto Finance) ("Q. Are you aware of how
other lenders similar to Instant Auto Finance view credit
applicants who appear to be candidates for Chapter 13 bankruptcy?" "A. Negative[ly] as well"). The better assumption is that bankrupt debtors are riskier than other subprime
debtors--or, at the very least, not systematically less risky.
The first of the two assumptions means that the contract
rate reasonably reflects actual risk at the time of borrowing.
The second means that this risk persists when the debtor
files for Chapter 13. It follows that the contract rate is a
decent estimate, or at least the lower bound, for the appro2
priate interest rate in cramdown.
The plurality disputes these two assumptions. It argues
that subprime lending markets are not competitive because
"vehicles are regularly sold by means of tie-in transactions,
in which the price of the vehicle is the subject of negotiation,
while the terms of the financing are dictated by the seller."
2

The contract rate is only a presumption, however, and either party
remains free to prove that a higher or lower rate is appropriate in a particular case. For example, if market interest rates generally have risen or
fallen since the contract was executed, the contract rate could be adjusted
by the same amount in cases where the difference was substantial enough
that a party chose to make an issue of it.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALIA,

Ante, at 481.3

J., dissenting

Tie-ins do not alone make financing markets

noncompetitive; they only cause prices and interest rates to
be considered in tandem rather than separately. The force
of the plurality's argument depends entirely on its claim that
"the terms of the financing are dictated by the seller." Ibid.
This unsubstantiated assertion is contrary to common experience. Car sellers routinely advertise their interest rates,
offer promotions like "zero-percent financing," and engage in
other behavior that plainly assumes customers are sensitive
4
to interest rates and not just price.
3

To the extent the plurality argues that subprime lending markets are

not "perfectly competitive," ante, at 481 (emphasis added), I agree. But
there is no reason to doubt they are reasonably competitive, so that pricing in those markets is reasonably efficient.
41 confess that this is "nonresponsive" to the argument made in the
plurality's footnote (that the contract interest rate may not accurately reflect risk when set jointly with a car's sale price), see ante, at 481, n. 20;
it is in response to the quite different argument made in the plurality's
text (that joint pricing shows that the subprime lending market is not
competitive), see ante, at 481. As to the former issue, the plurality's footnote makes a fair point. When the seller provides financing itself, there
is a possibility that the contract interest rate might not reflect actual risk
because a higher contract interest rate can be traded off for a lower sale
price and vice versa. Nonetheless, this fact is not likely to bias the
contract-rate approach in favor of creditors to any significant degree. If
a creditor offers a promotional interest rate-such as "zero-percent financing"-in return for a higher sale price, the creditor bears the burden of
showing that the true interest rate is higher than the contract rate. The
opposite tactic-inflating the interest rate and decreasing the sale priceis constrained at some level by the buyer's option to finance through a
third party, thus taking advantage of the lower price while avoiding the
higher interest rate. (If a seller were to condition a price discount on
providing the financing itself, the debtor should be entitled to rely on that
condition to rebut the presumption that the contract rate reflects actual
risk.) Finally, the debtor remains free to rebut the contract rate with
any other probative evidence. While joint pricing may introduce some
inaccuracy, the contract rate is still a far better initial estimate than the
prime rate.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

The plurality also points to state and federal regulation
of lending markets. Ante, at 481-482. It claims that state
usury laws evince a belief that subprime lending markets are
noncompetitive. While that is one conceivable explanation
for such laws, there are countless others. One statistical
and historical study suggests that usury laws are a "primitive means of social insurance" meant to ensure "low interest
rates" for those who suffer financial adversity. Glaeser &
Scheinkman, Neither a Borrower Nor a Lender Be: An Economic Analysis of Interest Restrictions and Usury Laws, 41
J. Law & Econ. 1, 26 (1998). Such a rationale does not reflect a belief that lending markets are inefficient, any more
than rent controls reflect a belief that real estate markets
are inefficient. Other historical rationales likewise shed no
light on the point at issue here. See id., at 27. The mere
existence of usury laws is therefore weak support for any
position.
The federal Truth in Lending Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1601 et seq.,
not only fails to support the plurality's position; it positively
refutes it. The plurality claims the Act reflects a belief that
full disclosure promotes competition, see ante, at 482, and
n. 24; the Act itself says as much, see 15 U. S. C. § 1601(a).
But that belief obviously presumes markets are competitive
(or, at least, that they were noncompetitive only because of
the absence of the disclosures the Act now requires). If
lending markets were not competitive-if the terms of financing were indeed "dictated by the seller," ante, at 481disclosure requirements would be pointless, since consumers
would have no use for the information. 5
As to the second assumption (that the expected costs of
default in Chapter 13 are normally no less than those at the
5 The

plurality also argues that regulatory context is relevant because

it "distorts the market." Ante, at 482. Federal disclosure requirements
do not distort the market in any meaningful sense. And while state usury
laws do, that distortion works only to the benefit of debtors under the
contract-rate approach, since it keeps contract rates artificially low.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALA, J.,

dissenting

time of lending), the plurality responds, not that Chapter 13
as currently administered is less risky than subprime lending generally, but that it would be less risky, if only bankruptcy courts would confirm fewer risky plans. Ante, at
482-483. Of course, it is often quite difficult to predict
which plans will fail. See Norberg, Consumer Bankruptcy's
New Clothes: An Empirical Study of Discharge and Debt
Collection in Chapter 13, 7 Am. Bankr. Inst. L. Rev. 415, 462
(1999). But even assuming the high failure rate primarily
reflects judicial dereliction rather than unavoidable uncertainty, the plurality's argument fails for want of any reason
to believe the dereliction will abate. While full compensation can be attained either by low-risk plans and low interest
rates, or by high-risk plans and high interest rates, it cannot
be attained by high-risk plans and low interest rates, which,
absent cause to anticipate a change in confirmation practices,
is precisely what the formula approach would yield.
The plurality also claims that the contract rate overcompensates creditors because it includes "transaction costs and
overall profits." Ante, at 477. But the same is true of the
rate the plurality prescribes: The prime lending rate includes
banks' overhead and profits. These are necessary components of any commercial lending rate, since creditors will not
lend money if they cannot cover their costs and return a level
of profit sufficient to prevent their investors from going elsewhere. See Koopmans v. Farm Credit Services of MidAmerica, ACA, 102 F. 3d 874, 876 (CA7 1996). The plurality's criticism might have force if there were reason to
believe subprime lenders made exorbitant profits while
banks did not-but, again, the data suggest otherwise. See
Lane, Regulator's View of Subprime Lending, at 6.6
6Some

transaction costs are avoided by the creditor in bankruptcy-for

example, loan-origination costs such as advertising. But these are likely
only a minor component of the interest rate. According to the record in
this case, for example, the average interest rate on new-car loans was
roughly 8.5%--only about 0.5% higher than the prime rate and 2.5% higher

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA, J., dissenting

Finally, the plurality objects that similarly situated creditors might not be treated alike. Ante, at 478, and n. 17.
But the contract rate is only a presumption. If a judge

thinks it necessary to modify the rate to avoid unjustified
disparity, he can do so. For example, if two creditors
charged different rates solely because they lent to the debtor
at different times, the judge could average the rates or use
the more recent one. The plurality's argument might be
valid against an approach that irrebuttably presumes the

contract rate, but that is not what I propose.
II
The defects of the formula approach far outweigh those

of the contract-rate approach. The formula approach starts
with the prime lending rate-a number that, while objective
and easily ascertainable, is indisputably too low. It then adthan the risk-free treasury rate. App. 43 (testimony of Professor Steve
Russell). And the 2% difference between prime and treasury rates represented "mostly... risk [and] to some extent transaction costs." Id., at 42.
These figures suggest that loan-origination costs included in the new-car
loan and prime rates but not in the treasury rate are likely only a fraction
of a percent. There is no reason to think they are substantially higher in
the subprime auto lending market. Any transaction costs the creditor
avoids in bankruptcy are thus far less than the additional ones he incurs.
7The plurality's other, miscellaneous criticisms do not survive scrutiny
either. That the cramdown provision applies to prime as well as subprime loans, ante, at 483-484, proves nothing. Nor is there any substance
to the argument that the formula approach will perform better where
"national or local economic conditions drastically improved or declined
after the original loan was issued." Ante, at 484. To the extent such
economic changes are reflected by changes in the prime rate, the contract
rate can be adjusted by the same amount. See n. 2, supra. And to the
extent they are not, they present the same problem under either approach:
When a party disputes the presumption, the court must gauge the significance of the economic change and adjust accordingly. The difference,
again, is that the contract-rate approach starts with a number that (but
for the economic change) is reasonably accurate, while the formula approach starts with a number that (with or without the economic change)
is not even close.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

justs by adding a risk premium that, unlike the prime rate,
is neither objective nor easily ascertainable. If the risk premium is typically small relative to the prime rate-as the
1.5% premium added to the 8% prime rate by the court below
would lead one to believe-then this subjective element of
the computation might be forgiven. But in fact risk premiums, if properly computed, would typically be substantial.
For example, if the 21% contract rate is an accurate reflection of risk in this case, the risk premium would be 13%-nearly two-thirds of the total interest rate. When the risk
premium is the greater part of the overall rate, the formula
approach no longer depends on objective and easily ascertainable numbers. The prime rate becomes the objective
tail wagging a dog of unknown size.
As I explain below, the most relevant factors bearing on
risk premium are (1) the probability of plan failure; (2) the
rate of collateral depreciation; (3) the liquidity of the collateral market; and (4) the administrative expenses of enforcement. Under the formula approach, a risk premium must
be computed in every case, so judges will invariably grapple with these imponderables. Under the contract-rate approach, by contrast, the task of assessing all these risk factors is entrusted to the entity most capable of undertaking
it: the market. See Bank of America, 526 U. S., at 457
("ITIhe best way to determine value is exposure to a market"). All the risk factors are reflected (assuming market
efficiency) in the debtor's contract rate-a number readily
found in the loan document. If neither party disputes it, the
bankruptcy judge's task is at an end. There are straightforward ways a debtor could dispute it-for example, by showing that the creditor is now substantially oversecured, or
that some other lender is willing to extend credit at a lower
rate. But unlike the formula approach, which requires difficult estimation in every case, the contract-rate approach
requires it only when the parties choose to contest the issue.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

The plurality defends the formula approach on the ground
that creditors have better access to the relevant information.
Ante, at 484-485. But this is not a case where we must
choose between one initial estimate that is too low and another that is too high. Rather, the choice is between one
that is far too low and another that is generally reasonably
accurate (or, if anything, a bit too low). In these circumstances, consciously choosing the less accurate estimate
merely because creditors have better information smacks
more of policymaking than of faithful adherence to the statutory command that the secured creditor receive property
worth "not less than the allowed amount" of its claim, 11
U. S. C. § 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii) (emphasis added). Moreover, the
plurality's argument assumes it is plausible-and desirablethat the issue will be litigated in most cases. But the costs
of conducting a detailed risk analysis and defending it in
court are prohibitively high in relation to the amount at
stake in most consumer loan cases. Whatever approach we
prescribe, the norm should be-and undoubtedly will bethat the issue is not litigated because it is not worth litigating. Given this reality, it is far more important that the
initial estimate be accurate than that the burden of proving
inaccuracy fall on the better informed party.
There is no better demonstration of the inadequacies of
the formula approach than the proceedings in this case.
Petitioners' economics expert testified that the 1.5% risk premium was "very reasonable" because Chapter 13 plans are
''supposed to be financially feasible" and "the borrowers are
under the supervision of the court." App. 43. Nothing in
the record shows how these two platitudes were somehow
manipulated to arrive at a figure of 1.5%. It bears repeating
that feasibility determinations and trustee oversight do not
prevent at least 37% of confirmed Chapter 13 plans from failing. On cross-examination, the expert admitted that he had
only limited familiarity with the subprime auto lending market and that he was not familiar with the default rates or the

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

costs of collection in that market. Id., at 44-45. In light of
these devastating concessions, it is impossible to view the
1.5% figure as anything other than a smallish number picked
out of a hat.
Based on even a rudimentary financial analysis of the facts
of this case, the 1.5% figure is obviously wrong-not just off
by a couple percent, but probably by roughly an order of
magnitude. For a risk premium to be adequate, a hypothetical, rational creditor must be indifferent between accepting
(1) the proposed risky stream of payments over time and
(2) immediate payment of its present value in a lump sum.
Whether he is indifferent-i. e., whether the risk premium
added to the prime rate is adequate-can be gauged by comparing benefits and costs: on the one hand, the expected
value of the extra interest, and on the other, the expected
costs of default.
Respondent was offered a risk premium of 1.5% on top of
the prime rate of 8%. If that premium were fully paid as
the plan contemplated, it would yield about $60.8 If the
debtor defaulted, all or part of that interest would not be
paid, so the expected value is only about $50. 9

The prime

rate itself already includes some compensation for risk; as it
turns out, about the same amount, yielding another $50.10
8Given

its priority, and in light of the amended plan's reduced debtor
contributions, the $4,000 secured claim would be fully repaid by about the
end of the second year of the plan. The average balance over that period
would be about $2,000, i. e., half the initial balance. The total interest
premium would therefore be 1.5% x 2 x $2,000 = $60. In this and all following calculations, I do not adjust for time value, as timing effects have
no substantial effect on the conclusion.
9Assuming a 37% rate of default that results on average in only half the
interest's being paid, the expected value is $60 x (I - 37% - 2), or about $50.
10According to the record in this case, the prime rate at the time
of filing was 2% higher than the risk-free treasury rate, and the difference represented "mostly . . . risk [and] to some extent transaction
costs." App. 42 (testimony of Professor Steve Russell); see also Federal
Reserve Board, Selected Interest Rates, http://www.federalreserve.gov/
releases/h15/data.htm (as visited Apr. 19, 2004) (available in Clerk of

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

Given the 1.5% risk premium, then, the total expected benefit to respondent was about $100. Against this we must
weigh the expected costs of default. While precise calculations are impossible, rough estimates convey a sense of
their scale.
The first cost of default involves depreciation. If the
debtor defaults, the creditor can eventually repossess and
sell the collateral, but by then it may be substantially less
valuable than the remaining balance due-and the debtor
may stop paying long before the creditor receives permission
to repossess. When petitioners purchased their truck in
this case, its value was almost equal to the principal balance
on the loan." By the time the plan was confirmed, however,
the truck was worth only $4,000, while the balance on the
loan was $4,895. If petitioners were to default on their
Chapter 13 payments and if respondent suffered the same
relative loss from depreciation, it would amount to about
$550.12

The second cost of default involves liquidation. The
$4,000 to which respondent would be entitled if paid in a
lump sum reflects the replacement value of the vehicle, i. e.,
the amount it would cost the debtor to purchase a similar
used truck. See Associates Commercial Corp. v. Rash, 520
U. S. 953, 965 (1997). If the debtor defaults, the creditor
cannot sell the truck for that amount; it receives only a lesser
Court's case file) (historical data showing prime rate typically exceeding
3-month constant-maturity treasury rate by 2%-3.5%).

If "mostly"

means about three-quarters of 2%, then the risk compensation included in
the prime rate is 1.5%. Because this figure happens to be the same as
the risk premium over prime, the expected value is similarly $50. See
nn. 8-9, supra.
1The truck was initially worth $6,395; the principal balance on the loan
was about $6,426.
12 On the original loan, depreciation ($6,395- $4,000, or $2,395) exceeded
loan repayment ($6,426- $4,895, or $1,531) by $864, i. e., 14% of the original

truck value of $6,395. Applying the same percentage to the new $4,000
truck value yields approximately $550.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)

SCALIA, J., dissenting

foreclosure value because collateral markets are not perfectly liquid and there is thus a spread between what a buyer
will pay and what a seller will demand. The foreclosure
value of petitioners' truck is not in the record, but, using the
relative liquidity figures in Rash as a rough guide, respondent would suffer a further loss of about $450.13
The third cost of default consists of the administrative expenses of foreclosure. While a Chapter 13 plan is in effect,
the automatic stay prevents secured creditors from repossessing their collateral, even if the debtor fails to pay. See
11 U. S. C. § 362. The creditor's attorney must move the
bankruptcy court to lift the stay. §362(d). In the District
where this case arose, the filing fee for such motions is now
$150. See United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Indiana, Schedule of Bankruptcy Fees (Nov.
1, 2003) (available in Clerk of Court's case file). And the
standard attorney's fee for such motions, according to one
survey, is $350 in Indiana and as high as $875 in other States.
See J. Cossitt, Chapter 13 Attorney Fee Survey, American
Bankruptcy Institute Annual Spring Meeting (Apr. 10-13,
2003) (available in Clerk of Court's case file). Moreover,
bankruptcy judges will often excuse first offenses, so foreclosure may require multiple trips to court. The total expected administrative expenses in the event of default could
reasonably be estimated at $600 or more.
I have omitted several other costs of default, but the point
is already adequately made. The three figures above total
$1,600. Even accepting petitioners' low estimate of the plan
failure rate, a creditor choosing the stream of future payments instead of the immediate lump sum would be selecting
an alternative with an expected cost of about $590 ($1,600
multiplied by 37%, the chance of failure) and an expected
"3 The truck in Rash had a replacement value of $41,000 and a foreclosure value of $31,875, i. e., 22% less. 520 U. S., at 957. If the market in
this case had similar liquidity and the truck were repossessed after losing
half its remaining value, the loss would be 22% of $2,000, or about $450.

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

benefit of about $100 (as computed above). No rational
creditor would make such a choice. The risk premium over
prime necessary to make these costs and benefits equal is in
the neighborhood of 16%, for a total interest rate of 24%. 14
Of course, many of the estimates I have made can be disputed. Perhaps the truck will depreciate more slowly now
than at first, perhaps the collateral market is more liquid
than the one in Rash, perhaps respondent can economize on
attorney's fees, and perhaps there is some reason (other than
judicial optimism) to think the Tills were unlikely to default.
I have made some liberal assumptions, 5 but also some conservative ones. 16 When a risk premium is off by an order of
magnitude, one's estimates need not be very precise to show
that it cannot possibly be correct.
In sum, the 1.5% premium adopted in this case is far below
anything approaching fair compensation. That result is not
unusual, see, e. g., In re Valenti, 105 F. 3d 55, 64 (CA2 1997)
(recommending a 10lq-3% premium over the treasury ratei. e., approximately a 0% premium over prime); it is the entirely predictable consequence of a methodology that tells
bankruptcy judges to set interest rates based on highly imponderable factors. Given the inherent uncertainty of the
enterprise, what heartless bankruptcy judge can be expected
to demand that the unfortunate debtor pay triple the prime
rate as a condition of keeping his sole means of transportation? It challenges human nature.
14A 1.5% risk premium plus a 1.5% risk component in the prime rate

yielded an expected benefit of about $100, see supra, at 501-502, so, to
yield $590, the total risk compensation would have to be 5.9 times as high,
i. e., almost 18%, or a 16.5% risk premium over prime.
15For example, by ignoring the possibility that the creditor might recover some of its undersecurity as an unsecured claimant, that the plan
might fail only after full repayment of secured claims, or that an oversecured creditor might recover some of its expenses under 11 U. S. C. §506(b).
16 For example, by assuming a failure rate of 37%, cf. n. 1, supra, and by
ignoring all costs of default other than the three mentioned.

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

III
JUSTICE THOMAS rejects both the formula approach and
the contract-rate approach. He reads the statutory phrase
"property to be distributed under the plan," 11 U. S. C.
§ 1325(a)(5)(B)(ii), to mean the proposed payments if made
as the plan contemplates, so that the plan need only pay the
risk-free rate of interest. Ante, at 487 (opinion concurring
in judgment). I would instead read this phrase to mean the
right to receive payments that the plan vests in the creditor
upon confirmation. Because there is no guarantee that the
promised payments will in fact be made, the value of this
property right must account for the risk of nonpayment.
Viewed in isolation, the phrase is susceptible of either
meaning. Both the promise to make payments and the proposed payments themselves are property rights, the former
"to be distributed under the plan" immediately upon confirmation, and the latter over the life of the plan. Context,
however, supports my reading. The cramdown option which
the debtors employed here is only one of three routes to confirmation. The other two-creditor acceptance and collateral surrender, §§ 1325(a)(5)(A), (C)-are both creditor protective, leaving the secured creditor roughly as well off as
he would have been had the debtor not sought bankruptcy
protection. Given this, it is unlikely the third option was
meant to be substantially underprotective; that would render it so much more favorable to debtors that few would ever
choose one of the alternatives.
The risk-free approach also leads to anomalous results.
JUSTICE THOMAS admits that, if a plan distributes a note
rather than cash, the value of the "property to be distributed" must reflect the risk of default on the note. Ante, at
488-489. But there is no practical difference between obligating the debtor to make deferred payments under a plan
and obligating the debtor to sign a note that requires those
same payments. There is no conceivable reason why Con-

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

gress would give secured creditors risk compensation in one
case but not the other.
Circuit authority uniformly rejects the risk-free approach.
While Circuits addressing the issue are divided over how to
calculate risk, to my knowledge all of them require some
compensation for risk, either explicitly or implicitly. See In
re Valenti, supra, at 64 (treasury rate plus 1%-3% risk premium); GMAC v. Jones, 999 F. 2d 63, 71 (CA3 1993) (contract
rate); United Carolina Bank v. Hall, 993 F. 2d 1126, 1131
(CA4 1993) (creditor's rate for similar loans, but not higher
than contract rate); In re Smithwick, 121 F. 3d 211, 214 (CA5
1997) (contract rate); In re Kidd, 315 F. 3d 671, 678 (CA6
2003) (market rate for similar loans); In re Till, 301 F. 3d
583, 592-593 (CA7 2002) (case below) (contract rate); In re
Fisher,930 F. 2d 1361, 1364 (CA8 1991) (market rate for similar loans) (interpreting parallel Chapter 12 provision); In re
Fowler, 903 F. 2d 694, 698 (CA9 1990) (prime rate plus risk
premium); In re Hardzog, 901 F. 2d 858, 860 (CA10 1990)
(market rate for similar loans, but not higher than contract
rate) (Chapter 12); In re Southern States Motor Inns, Inc.,
709 F. 2d 647, 652-653 (CAll 1983) (market rate for similar
loans) (interpreting similar Chapter 11 provision); see also 8
Collier on Bankruptcy 1325.06[3][b], p. 1325-37 (rev. 15th
ed. 2004). JUSTICE THOMAS identifies no decision adopting
his view.
Nor does our decision in Rash, 520 U. S. 953, support the
risk-free approach. There we considered whether a secured
creditor's claim should be valued at what the debtor would
pay to replace the collateral or at the lower price the creditor
would receive from a foreclosure sale. JUSTICE THOMAS
contends that Rash selected the former in order to compensate creditors for the risk of plan failure, and that, having
compensated them once in that context, we need not do so
again here. Ante, at 489. I disagree with this reading of
Rash. The Bankruptcy Code provides that "value shall be
determined in light of the purpose of the valuation and of the

Cite as: 541 U. S. 465 (2004)
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

proposed disposition or use of [the] property." 11 U. S. C.
§506(a). Rash held that the foreclosure-value approach
failed to give effect to this language, because it assigned the
same value whether the debtor surrendered the collateral or
was allowed to retain it in exchange for promised payments.
520 U. S., at 962. "From the creditor's perspective as well
as the debtor's, surrender and retention are not equivalent
acts." Ibid. We did point out that retention entails risks
for the creditor that surrender does not. Id., at 962-963.
But we made no effort to correlate that increased risk with
the difference between replacement and foreclosure value.
And we also pointed out that retention benefits the debtor
by allowing him to continue to use the property-a factor
we considered "[o]f prime significance." Id., at 963. Rash
stands for the proposition that surrender and retention are
fundamentally different sorts of "disposition or use," calling
for different valuations. Nothing in the opinion suggests
that we thought the valuation difference reflected the degree
of increased risk, or that we adopted the replacement-value
standard in order to compensate for increased risk. To the
contrary, we said that the debtor's "actual use . . .is the

proper guide under a prescription hinged to the property's
'disposition or use."' Ibid.
If Congress wanted to compensate secured creditors for
the risk of plan failure, it would not have done so by prescribing a particular method of valuing collateral. A plan may
pose little risk even though the difference between foreclosure and replacement values is substantial, or great risk
even though the valuation difference is small. For example,
if a plan proposes immediate cash payment to the secured
creditor, he is entitled to the higher replacement value under
Rash even though he faces no risk at all. If the plan calls
for deferred payments but the collateral consists of listed
securities, the valuation difference may be trivial, but the
creditor still faces substantial risks. And a creditor oversecured in even the slightest degree at the time of bank-

TILL v. SCS CREDIT CORP.
SCALLA, J., dissenting

ruptcy derives no benefit at all from Rash, but still faces
17
some risk of collateral depreciation.
There are very good reasons for Congress to prescribe full
risk compensation for creditors. Every action in the free
market has a reaction somewhere. If subprime lenders are
systematically undercompensated in bankruptcy, they will
charge higher rates or, if they already charge the legal maximum under state law, lend to fewer of the riskiest borrowers.
As a result, some marginal but deserving borrowers will be
denied vehicle loans in the first place. Congress evidently
concluded that widespread access to credit is worth preserving, even if it means being ungenerous to sympathetic
debtors.
Today's judgment is unlikely to burnish the Court's reputation for reasoned decisionmaking. Eight Justices are in
agreement that the rate of interest set forth in the debtor's
approved plan must include a premium for risk. Of those
eight, four are of the view that beginning with the contract
rate would most accurately reflect the actual risk, and four
are of the view that beginning with the prime lending rate
would do so. The ninth Justice takes no position on the latter point, since he disagrees with the eight on the former
point; he would reverse because the rate proposed here,
being above the risk-free rate, gave respondent no cause for
complaint. Because I read the statute to require full risk
compensation, and because I would adopt a valuation method
that has a realistic prospect of enforcing that directive,
I respectfully dissent.
7
1It is true that, if the debtor defaults, one of the costs the creditor
suffers is the cost of liquidating the collateral. See supra, at 502-503.
But it is illogical to "compensate" for this risk by requiring all plans to
pay the full cost of liquidation (replacement value minus foreclosure
value), rather than an amount that reflects the possibility that liquidation
will actually be necessary and that full payments will not be made.

