OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

executrix of this my last will and testament. And if my said
daughter shall die or from any cause should become unable
to act in the trust, I direct that a trustee shall be appointed
by the Circuit Court so that the trusts hereby created shall
be at all times preserved and carried into effect."
Decree affirmed.

OFFIELD v. NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN AND HARTFOR )
IAILROAI) COWIPANY.
ERROR TO THE ,SUPREME ((fl"RT

OF EIMOItS OF THE STATE OF

(ONNECTICU'T.
No. 59. Argued October 25, 1906-Decided December 3, 1906.

Where plaintiff in error contends that the purpose for which his property
has been condemned is not a public use; that, the condemnation is unnecessary in order to obtain the desired cud; and that the proceedings and
state statute on which they are based violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment and impair contract rights. Federal questions
are involved and, if not frivolous, the writ of error will not be dismissed.
It is within the power of a State to provide for condemnation of minority
shares of stock in railroad and other corporations where the majority of
the shares are held by another railroad corporation if public interest
demands; and the improvement of the railroad owning the majority of
stock of another corporation may be a public use if the state courts so declare, and the condemnation under §§ 3694, 3695, Public Laws of Connecticut, of such minority shares of a corporation is not void under the impairment clause of the Constitution either because it impairs the obligation of
, lease made by the corporation to the corporation obtaining the shares
by condemnation, or because it impairs the contract rights of the stockholder.
78 Connecticut, 1, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward H. Rogers and Mr. W. H. H. Miller, with whom
Mr. Charles K. Bush was on the brief,.for plaintiff in error:
The statute is based upon the principle of eminent domain,

OFFIELD v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and the real, and indeed the only, reason which the state court
had to justify its decision was that every railroad is a public
trust, and that the State can exercise the power of eminent
domain so far as may be necessary to secure the property
taken being put to the best use in fulfilment of the trust for
a public use.
The right of eminent domain can only be legally exercised
when the property taken is taken for a public use. The right
is not a creature of grant. It is one of the inherent powers
of sovereignty. In some States, as in Connecticut, it is recognized by the constitution, § 11, art. I, const. of Connecticut;
Farist Steel Co. v. Bridgeport Co., 60 Connecticut, 278, .291.
The condemnation of the stock is not a taking -for a public
use. The question of what is a public use is always one of
law. Cooley's Const. Lim., 774; Re Niagara Falls v. Whirlpool
R. W. Co., 108 N. Y. 375; In re Split Rock Cable Road Co.,
128 N. Y. 408; 1 Lewis on Em. Domain, § 163.
The use of a thing is strictly and properly the employment
of the thing in some manner, and this employment must be
something more than a merely incidental public benefit.
Cases supra and Re Eureka Basin Warehouse Co., 96 N. Y.
42;, Varner v. Martin, 21 West Va. 534, 552.
Unless it be proposed to subject the property taken to a
use public in its nature not already within the charter powers
of the New Haven and Derby Railroad Company, the power
of eminent domain should not be exercised. There can be no
necessity for or propriety in the taking unless the rights of
the public with reference to the property taken are to be
enlarged, and that directly and actually, and not indirectly
and constructively. For definitions of public use see Evergreen Cemetery Association v. Beecher, 53 Connecticut, 551;
Avery v. Vermont Electric Co., 75 Vermont, 235; Re Rhode
Island Suburban Ry. Co., 28 R. I. 457, 461; Berrien Springs
Water Co. v. Berrien, 133 Michigan, 48. Black v. Delaware &
Raritan R. R. Co., 24 N. J. Eq. 455, distinguished.
There is no right in the majority holders of a corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

to extinguish the rights and stock of a dissenting minority
by taking their shares at a valuation. If a majority of the
stockholders of the New ttaven and Derby Railroad Company had undertaken to transfer the defendant's stock against
his wishes, they could have been enjoined by him. Clearwater v. Meredith, I Wall. 25; Stevens v. Rutland & B. R. R.
Co., 29 Vermont, 545.
The actual taking was dependent upon a finding by a judge
of the state court that the purchase would be for the public
interest, which finding is an exercise of the judicial power
which is vested in the Superior Court of the State of Connecticut, or a judge thereof, by the constitution of that State.
New Milford Water Co. V. Watson, 75 Connecticut, 237; Norwalk Street Ry. Co.'s Appeal, 69 Connecticut, 576, 601, 608;
Betts v. Connecticut Indemnity Association, 71 Connecticut,
751, 755.
Neither can the decision of the Connecticut court be justified
on the ground that the proceeding is a dissolution proceeding.
A taking for a private use is unlawful, and even if there can
be any lawful taking under the statute, it is inseparably
blended in the application with the unlawful one; where the
proceeding shows upon its face, as this does, two distinct
uses or purposes, one lawful and the other not, which are so
inseparably blended as not to be separable, it cannot be sustained. 7 Ency. of- P1. & Pr., 527; Chicago & N. 11. R. R.
Co. v. Gall, 133 Illinois, 657.
The statute as applied in this case impairs a contract.
The statute being an invalid enactment under the Constitution of the United States, this court has ji!risdiction of
this writ of error.
It is a taking for a private purpose. Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239; C., B. &Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 106
U. S. 226, 241; Missouri R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S.
403, 417.
A State has no constitutional right to say that a private
use is a public use, or to pervert the doctrine of eminent

OFFIELD v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO.
203 U. S.

375

Opinion of the Court.

domain by declaring that any private purpose is a public
purpose. Tracy v. Elizabethtown R. R. Co., 80 Kentucky,
259, 265.
The right of the plaintiff in error as a stockholder of the
New Haven and Derby Railroad Company is a contract right
which the Supreme Court of Errors of the State of Connecticut has by its action impaired.
The stock taken is not put to any public use. Indeed it
may not be put to a public use if the taker so decides, and
the only possible interest which the public have or may have
is remote and indirect.
Mr. George' D. Watrous, with whom Mr. Edward G. Buckland was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Errors of the State of Connecticut, rendered
in a proceeding under the statutes of that State for the condemnation of two shares of stock owned by plaintiff in error
in the New Haven and Derby Railroad Company.
There was a demurrer to the application, which was overruled by the advice of the Supreme Court of Errors, the judgment on demurrer having been reserved, under the practice
of the State, for the advice and consideration of that court.
77 Connecticut, 417. Upon the hearing judgment was rendered for defendant in error, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Errors. 78 Connecticut, 1.
Defendant in error is the lessee of the New Haven and Derby
Railroad Company, and has acquired all of the shares of stock
of the latter road except the two shares owned by plaintiff
in error.
That the lease and acquisition of stock are valid under the
laws of the State is decided by the.Supreme Court of Errors,
and it is sought by proceedings under review to obtain the two

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

shares of stock owned by plaintiff in error, under sections 3694
and 3695 of the Public Laws of Connecticut, which are as
follows:
"SEC. 3694. In case any railroad company, acting under
the authority of the laws of this State, shall have acquired
more than three-fourths of the capital stock of any steamboat,
ferry, bridge, wharf, or railroad corporation, and cannot agree
with the holders of outstanding stock for the purchase of the
same, such railroad company may, upon a finding by a judge
of the Superior Court that such purchase will be for the public
interest, cause such outstanding stock to be appraised in
accordance with the provisions of section 3687. When the
amount of such appraisal shall have been paid or deposited
as provided in said section, the stockholder or stockholders
whose stock shall have been so appraised shall cease to have
any interest therein, and on demand shall surrender all certificates for such stock, with duly executed powers of attorney
for transfer thereon, to the corporation applying for such
appraisal.
"SEC. 3695. If any person holding a minority of the shares

of stock in any corporation referred to in section 3694 cannot
agree with the railroad company owning three-fourths of such
stock for the purchase of his shares he may cause the same
to be appraised in iccordance with the proyisions of section 3687. When such appraisal has been made and recorded
in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of any county
where such railroad company operates a railroad, and the
certificates for such stock, with duly executed powers of
attorney for transfer thereon, have been deposited with such
clerk for such railroad company, such appraisal shall have
the effect of a judgment against such company and in favor
of the holder of such stock, and at the end of sixty days, unless
such judgment is paid, execution may be issued."
The purpose of the acquisition of the stock is to enable
defendant in error to improve the New Haven and Derby
Railroad.

OFFIELD v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO.
203 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is contended by plaintiff in error (1) that the purpose for
which the stock is sought to be obtained is not a public use.
(2) That defendant in error has the power and authority to
make the improvements mentioned in its application, which
would be as advantageous as taking the stock. (3) The proceedings and statutes are in violation of the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, and impair the contract rights of plaintiff in
error as stockholder of the New Haven and Derby Railroad
Company, and his rights in, under and by virtue of the lease
to defendant in error.
These contentions raise a Federal question, and we cannot
say that it is frivolous. The motion to dismiss is, therefore,
denied.
(1) The power of the State to declare uses of property to
be public has lately been decided in Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.
361, and in the case of Strickley v. Highland Boy Mining Company, 200 U. S.527. These cases exhibit more striking examples of the power of a State than the case at bar. In the
first case the statute of the State permitted an individual to
enlarge the ditch of another to obtain water for its own land;
.in the second case the statute authorized the condemnation
of a right of way to transport ore from a mine to a railroad
station. In the first case it was said that the public policy
of the State declaring the character of use of property depends
upon the facts surrounding the subject. In the second case
it was said, commenting on the first, "it provided that there
might be exceptional times and places in which the very
foundations of public welfare cannot be laid without requiring
concessions from individuals to each other upon due compensation, which under other conditions would be left wholly
to voluntary consent." The case at bar does not need the
support of such broad principles. The ultimate purpose of
defendant in error in the case at bar is the improvement of
the New Haven and Derby Railroad, which "connects [we
quote from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Errors], at

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

New Haven, on the east with four, and at its western terminals
with two, important railroad lines owned by plaintiff (defendant in error), and forms a link in an all-rail route between
Boston and the West, which is the only one controlled by it
over which goods can be transported with assured dispatch in
all weathers and seasons." In this purpose the public has an
interest and to accomplish it the court applied the statute.
The court observed: "To develop this route so as best to serve
the public interest requires the laying of additional tracks
on the New Haven and Derby Railroad and other extensive
and very costly improvements. The lessor company has
neither means nor credit whereby this can be effected on advantageous terms. The plaintiff could and will effect it, and
at much less cost, if it can acquire the two outstanding shares
of stock of the lessee. They are owned by the defendant, who
refuses to agree On the terms of purchase."
(2) The contract which it is contended was impaired is the
lease of the New Haven and Derby Railroad by defendant in
error. The lease is for a period of ninety-nine years from
July 1, 1892, at a rental of four per cent. per annum upon the
capital stock, together with the payment of taxes, assessments
and interest upon the funded debt. Associated with this contention there is another more general, to the effect that the
statute impairs the contract rights of plaintiff in error as a
stockholder of the New Haven and Derby Railroad Company.
We do not find it necessary to give precise and separate discussion to these contentions. They seem to us to be but parts
or incidents of the contention that the stock is sought for a
private use. If they are not incidents of that they are answered and opposed by the case of Long Island Supply Company v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685. Whatever value the lease
gives the shares of stock will be represented in their appraisement.
Judgment affirmed.

