OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Petitioners.

COMMISSIONERS

CERTIORARI

TO THE

203 U. S.

OF WICOMICO COUNTY v. BANCROFT.
CIRCUIT

COURT- OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 129.

Argued October 9, 1906.-Decided November 5. 1906.

In the absence of a contract protected by the impairment clause of the
Federal Constitution, whether a statutory exemption has been repealed

by a subsequent statute is a question of state law in which the decisions
of the highest court of the State are binding.
It is only where an irrepealable contract exists that it is the duty of this
court to decide for itself irrespective of the decisions of the state court
whether a subsequent act impairs the obligation of such contract.
Even though Federal courts might exercise independent judgment, in
this case the decisions of the Supreme Court of Maryland are followed
to the effect that an act directing a new assessment of property in the
State and expressly declaring that property of every railroad in the
State be valued and assessed, amounted to a repeal of prior exemptions
from taxation where there was no irrepealable contract.
A proviso in a state statute taxing all property of railroads that no irrepealable contract of exemption shall be affected construed as expressing the legislative intent to repeal all exemptions nut protected by binding contracts beyond legislative control.
135 Fed. Rep. 977, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James E. Ellegood, for petitioners:

The question has become res adjudicata by the courts of
Maryland and by this court. The contract must have been
impaired by some act of the legislative power of the State and
not by the courts. Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388;
Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103.
The doctrine of stare decisis and res adjudicata rests on a
broader ground than technical estoppel. It has been called
"a rule of rest," and is founded on public policy.
The decisions in the Maryland and Federal courts certainly
make the "law of the case," and settle the rights of the county

commissioners and the duty of the railroad company, which

COMM'RS OF WICOMICO CO. v. BANCROFT.
203 U. S.

113

Argument for Respondent.

became the thing adjudged.. New Orleans v. Citizens Bank,
167 U. S. 398; Covington v. First National Bank, 198 U. S. 100.
This is a clear attempt by a collateral proceeding to bring
the Federal court into directconflict with the state court, and
presents the example of one court indirectly interfering NI..
the decision of a court of concurrent jdrisdiction and annulling its effect as between the parties. 11 Am. & Eng. Ency.
Law, 2d ed., 398; Crowley v.,Davis; 37 California, 269.
. For the distinction between res adjudicata and stare decisis,
see 24 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 2d ed., 715.
The evils of such a conflict are shown in Phelps v. Mutual
Reserve Life Assn., 50 C. C. A. 339, affirmed in 190 U. S. 147.
See also Dawson v. Columbia Ave. Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178.
While the Federal courts are not controlled by the decisions
of the state courts in matters of general principles of the law,
they deem themselves unifoimly bound to follow them when
construing their own statutes; and the jurisdiction of the
Federal court must rest on other grounds than the mere
unconstitutionality of the taxes involved. Sheldon v. Platt,
139 U. S. 591, 599, reviewing the cases where injunctions were
granted, and affirming Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108.
But independent of the decisions of the Maryland courts,
there was no contract of ;exemption. An exemption from
taxation is not a vested right, a property right, or a positive
right. People v. Supervisors, 67 N. Y. 116; Pearsallv. Great
Northern R. R. Co., 161 U. S. 662.
The alleged exemption was not a part of the original charter of this corporation, and the grant is a mere gratuity.
Appeal Tax Court v. Grand Lodge, 50 Maryland, 428; Rector
v. Philadelphia, 24 How. 306; Grand Lodge v. New Orleans,
166 U. S. 148; People v. Commissioners, 47 N. Y. 504.
Mr. Nicholas P. Bond, Mr. Ralph Robinson and Mr. Edward
Duffy, for respondent, submitted:
The Federal court is not bound to follow the decisions of
the Court of Appeals of Maryland in construing the MaryVOL. ccIII-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1906..
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

land statutes. Mercantile Trust and Deposit Co. v. Texas and
Pacific Ry., 51 Fed. Relp. 536. While a state statute construed, or a rule of property established'at the time a transaction is entered into, or rights accrued, such construction will
bind the parties as fully as though written into the .transaction;.wlhcre no such construction was then in force, the statute should be construed by the independent judgment of
this court. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Carroll Co. v.
Smith, 111 U. S. 556; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S.
356.
The language in section 188 of the Code of Maryland is not
only broad enough to transfer the exemption from taxation
secured to the original railroad 'by -section 2 of the acts of
1886, but this is.the very language which has been held apt
and technical for this purpose by a line of decisions in both the
Federal and state courts. Trask v. Maguire, 18 Wall. 391;
L., & N. R. R. Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 251; Phoenix Insurance Company v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; State Board of
Assessors v. Morris and Essex R. R. Co., 49 N. J. L. 193; State v.
Railroad, 80 Thnnessee, 583; Memphis v. Pha'nix Insurance
Company, 91 Tennessee, 566.
MR.

JUJSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The respondent, Samuel Bancroft, Jr., began an action in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland to enjoin the county commissioners of Wicomico

County
from levying taxes on the property of the Baltimore,
Chesapeake
and Allantic Railway Company, alleging
that
he was the holder of twenty bonds secured by mortgage upon
the company's property, which, under the laws of the State,
had been exempted from taxation. Such proceedings were
had that a decree was entered cnjoining taxation of certain
property of the railway company. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the judgment was affirmed, 135 Fed.
Rep. 977, and the case was brought here by writ of.certiorari,

COMM'RS OF WICOMICO CO. v. BANCROFT.
203 U. S.

115

Opinion f the Court.

The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts, from
which the following, pertinent to the determination of the
case, may be extracted: The Baltimore and Eastern Shore
Railroad Company, organized to build a line of road from
Eastern Bay, in Talbot County, to Salisbury, Wicomieo
County, in the same State, by act of the legislature of Maryland, was granted certain privileges (chapter 133, Acts of the
Assembly, 1886), sections 2, 4 and 5 being as follows:
"SEC. 2. And be it enacted, That said corporation shall have
perpetual existence, and its franchises, property, shares of
capital stocks and bonds shall be exempt from all state,
county or municipal taxation for the term of thirty years,
counting from the date of the completion of said road between
the termini mentioned in its charter."
"SEC. 4. And be it enacted, That the said Baltimore and
Eastern Shore Railroad Company aforesaid, shall have power
to unite, connect and consolidate with any. railroad company
or companies, either in or out of this State, o that the capital
stock of said companies so united, connected and consolidated (respectively), may, at the pleasure of the directors,
constitute a common stock, and the respective companies may
thereafter constitute one company and be entitled to all the
property, franchises, rights, privileges and immunities which
each of them possess, have and enjoy under and by virtue of
their respective charters.
"SEc. 5. And be it enacted, That the Baltimore and Eastern
Shore Railroad Company shall have power to lease or purchase and operate any railroad or railroads either in or out
of this State, for the purpose of carrying on their business,
and any other railroad company in this State shall have the
right to lease or sell its railroad or other property to the said
Baltimore and Eastern Shore Railroad Company."
The Baltimore and Eastern Shore Railroad Company
accepted the provisions of the act and completed the construction of its road between' the termini named in August,
1891. In June, 18.90, it purchased the property of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Wicomico and Pocomoke Railroad Company, extending from
Salisbury to Ocean City. Afterwards, the Baltimore and
Eastern Shore Railroad Company mortgaged the entire property to secure $1,600,000 of mortgage bonds. This mortgage
was foreclosed in 1894, and the purchaser proceeded to organize
a new corporation, the Baltimore, Chesapeake and Atlantic
Railway Company, the respondent becoming the holder of
some" of its mortgage bonds. This reorganization was under
sections 187 and 188 of art. 23, Maryland Code of 1888, which
provide as follows:
"SEC. 187, that in case of the sale of any railroad under
foreclosure of mortgage, the purchaser may form a corporation for the purpose of owning, possessing, maintaining and
operating such railroad, by filing in the office of the Secretary
of State a certificate of the name and style of such corporation, the number of directors," ,,.
"SEC. 188. Such corporation shall possess all the powers,
rights, immunities, privileges and franchises in respect to
such railroad, or the part thereof included in such certificate,
and in respect to the real and personal property appertaining
to the same, which were possessed and enjoyed by the corporation which owned or held such railroad previous to such
sale under or by virtue of its charter, and any amendments
thereto, and of any other laws of this State,", etc.
Under authority of the Maryland statutes the Baltimore,
Chesapeake and Atlantic Railway Company issued the mortgage bonds of which respondent is the holder. The county
commissioners of Wicomio County have levied and assessed
taxes upon the railroad company's property, and threatened
to sell the same for non-payment thereof. The Circuit Court
held, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, that sections 187 and 188 of the Maryland Code 'extending iamnunities to the new company, had the effect to exempt
from taxation certain property of the reorganized company
and that the exemption constituted a contract between the
State and the company entitled to protection under the con-

COMM'RS OF WICOMICO CO. v. BANCROFT.
203 U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court..

tract clause of the Federal Constitution, against the subsequent attempt of the county commissioners to levy taxes upon
the property.
Notwithstanding this decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is now conceded in the brief of the respondent's
counsel, so far as this argument is concerned, that there
was no
binding contract upon the State entitled to protection under
the Federal Constitution (Article I, Section 10), against state
impairment of the obligation of the contract. In view of the
provisions of the Maryland constitution this concession would
seem in harmony with the right reserved in that instrument
to amend, repeal and alter charters. Northern Central Railway Co. v. Maryland, 187 U. S. 258. And see Wisconsin &
Michigan Railway Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379. But it is insisted, conceding that the exemption from taxation was merely
a bounty or gratuity, it extended to the reorganized company
by force of the Maryland statutes above quoted, and has never
been repealed nor. withdrawn by the State, and, therefore,
the bondholder, being directly interested in the property, has
a right to be protected by injunction against the levying of
such taxes so long as the act remains in force.
The questions arising in this case, as to the construction
and force of the acts of the legislature of the State, have been
before the Supreme Court of Maryland in three cases: Baltimore, Chesapeake& Atlantic Railway Co. v. Ocean City, 89 Maryland, 89; Baltimore, Chesapeake & Atlantic Railway Co. v.
County Commissioners of Wicomico County, 93 Maryland, 113;
and Baltimore, Chesapeake & Atlantic Railway Co. v. Wicomico
County, Commissioners, 63 AtI. Rep. 678. In these cases it
was held .that the exemptiin from taxation provided for by
the laws above quoted did not extend to the reorganized
company, and in .the last casej decided March 27, 1906, since
the decision in the Circuit Court of Appeals, it was held that
the general assessment law of 1896 (Acts of 1896, Chap. 120),
-declaring that the property of every railroad should be assessed
for county and municipal purposes, and providing that noth-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

ing in the act should discharge or release any irrepealable
contract or obligation existing at the date of the passage of
the act, amounted to a recall of the immunity granted by the
former law which had at all times been subject to repeal by
the State, and that, conceding the immjnity extended to the
reorganized company under section 187, of the statute, the
repeal of the exemption did not violate any contract with the
State, entitled to the protection of the Federal Constitution.
As we have said, the argument addressed to this court is
rested upon the proposition that the subsequent law of 1896,
imposing taxes upon the property of the railroad company in
general terms, did not repeal prior legislation, which, properly
construed, gives the privilege of exemption from taxation to
the property of the reorganized railroad company. We, therefore, are to consider a case wherein there is no contention that
a valid and binding contract has been impaired by state
action, and the questions are as to the proper construction of
the statute,- and whether a repealable exemption from taxation
has been withdrawn by subsequent legislation of the State.
Previous decisions of this court have settled the proposition that whether such exemption has been in fact repealed
by a subsequent state statute is a question of state law in
which the decisions of the highest courts of the State, in the
absence of a contract, are binding; and that it is only where
the exemption is irrepealable, thus constituting a contract,
that it becomes the duty of this court to decide for itself
whether the subsequent act did or did not impair the obligation of the contract. Gulf. & Ship Island R. R. Co. v. Hewes,
183 U. S. 66, 74; Northern Central Railway Co. v. Maryland,
187 U. S. 258, 266, 267. It is contended, however, that inasmuch as the respondent acquired his bonds in 1896, which
were issued in 1894, at a time when none of the Maryland
decisions above referred to had been made, the first of them
being in 1899, the construction of the statutes and their continued force'are questions for the Federal courts having jurisdiction of the cause and the parties. And further, that while

COMM'RS OF WICO.MICO CO. v. BANCROFT.,
203 U. S.

119

Opinion of the Court.

the 'Federal tribunals will differ reluctantly from the state
courts upon a question 'of the validity of state statutes, and
will "lean towards' 'an agreement of views with the state
courts," nevertheless they must in such cases exercise an
independent judgment in determining the force and validity
of s'tate statutes. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 23;
Great Southern Hotel Co. v. Jones, 193 U. S. 532, and cases
cited in the opini6rL in that case.
If we could concede the soundness of this contention, we
are of opinion that the Court of Appeals of Maryland was
right in holding that the legislation of 1896 (Acts of 1896,
Chap, 120), directing a new assessment of the property of the
State and expressly declaring that the property of every railroad in th& State should be valued and assessed for county
and municipal purposes, had the effect to withdraw the prior
exemption from taxation if a proper construction of the legislation of the State-would extend it to the property of the
reorganized company. The act contains the significant proviso that nothing. therein contained shall be held to discharge,
release, impair or affect any irrepealable contract or obligation of any kind whatsoever existing at the date of the passage
of the act. This proviso evidences- the legislative intent to
repeal exemptions from taxation which were not protected
by binding contracts beyond legislative control, if any such
existed, and to bring all property within the taxing power of
the. State. We agree with the reasoning expressed by the
Court of Appeals of Maryland upon this branch of the case.
63 AtI. Rep. 683.
From this view it .follows that the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals must be
Reversed and the cause remanded-to the Circuit Court with di
recinns to dismiss the bill.

