NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
.203 U. S.

Syllabus.

aminer or examiners in chief, as the case may be. The history
of the sections and the rules are gone into at length by the
Court of Appeals in its opinion. We need not repeat the discussion. It answers the detailed reasoning of plaintiffs in
error. We concur with the views expressed, that the statutes
provide only for appeals upon the question of priority of invention. Appeals on other questions are left to the regulation
of the Patent Office under the grant of power contained in
section 483.
Jvdgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHXM

and MR.

JUSTICE DAY

dissent.

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 49.

Argued October 19, lOG.-Decided December 10, 1906.

The requirement of' § 64a of the bankruptcy law of 1898 in regard to
preference of taxes is a wide departure from the act of 1867 and prefers
taxes due to any State and not only those due to the State in which
proceedings are instituted.
It is the province of the courts to enforce, not to make, laws; and if a law
works inequality the redress, if any, must be had from Congress, and
arguments directed, not to the construction of the act, but as to the
justice of a method of distribution of assets under the bankruptcy law,
and the -hardship resulting therefrom, cannot influence judicial determination.
Generally speaking, a tax is a.pecuniary burden laid upon individuals or
property to support the Government, and § 64a of the bankruptcy law
is very broad and covers all taxes, including yearly license fees imposed
by the State on corporations organized under its laws for the privilege
of doing business, whether such business is carried on in that or in other
States.
A State creating a. corporation may fix the terms of its existence and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of.the Case.

203 U. S.

provide that for the continued existence of its franchise it must yearly
pay the State certain sums fixed by the amount of its outstanding stock.
While the state court may construe a statute and define its meaning it
cannot conclusively determine that which is not a tax to be a tax within
the meaning of a Federal statute; that is a Federal question of ultimate
decision in this court.
In this case this court reaches independently the same conclusion as that
reached by the state court.
Under the bankruptcy act taxes assessed on returns made prior to the
adjudication are legally due and owing and entitled to the preference
given by § 64a although not collectible until after the adjudication.
137 Fed. Rep. 858, reversed.

THiS is an appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, affirming the order of the
District Court, which affirmed the finding of the referee in
bankruptcy, denying to the State of New Jersey a preference
for alleged franchise taxes from the estate of a bankrupt, the
Cosmopolitan Power Company.
On December 21, 1903, the claim for the State was filed,
under the provisions of section 64a of the ,bankruptcy law.
The claim is set forth as follows:
Tax-1902 .................
$5,750 00
Interest to October 15, 1903 .................
891 25
C6sts on injunction proceedings, because of nonpayment of taxes ........................
.
26 15
Tax- 1903................................ 2;500 00
Interest to October 15, 1903 .................
87 50
$9,254 90
The Cosmopolitan Power Company is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey on April 30,
1900, for the purpose of dealing in engines, machines, etc. By
its charter it had power to do business in any State or Territory
of the United States.. While it had its principal office in the
State of New Jersej located under the terms of its certificate
.of incorporation, it had no property in that State, and conducted its business in the State of Illinois:
The capital stock of the corporation on January 1, 1902,
was forty millions of dollars, of which there wero ten millions

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
203 U. S.

.485

Argument for Appellant.

outstanding. On May 13, 1902, its capital stock, pursuant to
the laws of New Jersey, was reduced to $2,500,000. The
company was adjudicated a bankrupt on April 23, 1903, upon
an involuntary petition filed in the District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois.
On November 7, 1902, the state board of assessors, of New
Jersey, the company having failed to make. return, levied an
assessment for the license or franchise tax in question for the
year 1902 in the sum of $5,750.00. On June 1, 1903, there was
assessed against the company for the year beginning January 1,
1903, a similar tax on outstanding capital stock in the sum of
$2,500.00, in accordance with the return of the company filed
on May 1, 1903.
On February 12, 1904, the State of New Jersey filed its
motion before the referee for the payment of said taxes as a"
preferential debt. The referee disallowed the 1903 tax altogether, and allowed the 1902 tax as a general claim against
the estate for the sum of $4,945.08. This reduction was made
from the assessment for the year 1902, because the state board
had made the assessment upon the basis of $40,000,000 of
outstanding capital stock, whereas, in fact, only $10,000,060
was then issued and outstanding, -upon which basis the referee
made the allowance. The District Court affirmed the order
of the referee. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
that court modified the judgment of the District Court so as
to allow the taxes claimed for the year 1903, as a general debt,
and in other respects affirmed the District Court. 137 Fed.
Rep. 858. The case was then brought here.
Mr. Edward D. Duffield, with whom Mr. Levy Mayer and
Mr. Robert H. McCarter were on the brief, for aplIellant:
The claim of the appellant is a tax within the meaning of
the bankruptcy act and is entitled to priority as such. Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, 136; State v. Evening Journal
Assn., 47 N. J. L. 36; State Board of Assessors v. Central R.R.
Co., 48 N. J. L. 146; Standard Cable Co. v. Attorney General,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

203 U. S.

46 N. J. Eq. 270; Pipe Line Co. v.- Berry, 52 N. J.L. 308, 311,
Trenton Savings Fund v. Richards, 52 N. J. L. 156; Honduras
Commercial Co. v. State Board of Assessors, 54 N. J. L. 278;
Lumbcrville Bridge Co. v. Assessors, 55 N. J. L. 529; State
v. Board of Assessors, 61 N. J. L. 461; Hancock, Comptroller, v.
;Singer Mfg. Co., 62 N. J. L. 289; Re Mutual Mercantile Agciicy,
8 Am. Bank. Reps. 435; Myers v. Caimpbell, 64 N. 1. L. 186;
Ches. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Atlantic Trons.p. (o., 62 N. J. Eq. 751;
Mayor of Newark v. Stole Board, 51 At. Rep. 67; Ariinex
Cons. Copper Co. v. State Board, 54 Atl. Rep. 244; Iardin
v. Morgan, 70 N. J. L. 484; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts,
125 U. S.530; Massachuselts v. TV. U. Tel. Co., 1-11 '.S. 40,
45; Wilmington R. 1'. Co. v. Reid, 13 Wall. 264; Atlantic &
Pacific Tel. Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Missouri, 190 U. S. 4J2; 14 Am. & Eng. Ency. of
Law, 2d ed., 6; 27 Am. & Engi. En6y. of Law, 2d ed., 578, 9:32:
I. C. R. R. Co. v. Decatur, 147 U. 8.190, 199; City of Caimden
v. Allen, 26 N. J. L. 398; First Not. Bank v. Aidlman, Miller
& Co., 12 Am. Bank.Reps. 12; 2 Cook on Corporations, 5th ed.,
561. Re United States Car Co., 60 N. .J. Eq. 514; Re Danville
Rolling Mill Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 432, (listinguished.
Mr. Horace Knt Tenney, with whom Mr. Frederick D.
Silber was on the brief, for appellee, submitted:
The claim is not entitled to any priority. The )roper construction of § 64a requires that only such taxes be paid as
priorities as could be collected from property within the jurisdictional limits of the taxing body at the time the petition
was filed. Said section does not provide for the payment of
taxes due all States, counties, etc., but due the State.
Both the language of the section and the history of the
legislation plainly shows that such intention was in the mind
of Congress.
The license fee or franchise tax in question is not a tax,
according to the decisions of the courts of New Jersey, and
other courts. Re U. S. Car Co., 60 N. J. Eq. 514; Re Ott, 2

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A. B. R. 637 ; Re Danville Rolling Mill Co., 10 A. B. R. 327;
Re Auliman, Miller & Co., 12 A. B. R. 12; North Jersey S'treet
Ry. Co. v. Mayor of Jersey City, 63 Atl. Rep. 83; 1 Cooley on
Taxation, 6; Singer Mfg. Co. v. Heppenheimer, 58 N. J. L.
634; Hancock v. Singer Mfg. Co., 62 N. J. L. 289; Lumberville
Bridge Co. v. Assessors, 55 N. J. L. 537; American Smelting
& Refining Co. v. People, 82 Pac. Rep. 531.
The license fee for 1902 never became a valid charge, because the board of assessors had no right under the statute
to levy,'it in November. The statute requiring the levy in
June is mandatory and not directory. The court will not give
priority to an allowance that never should have been made.
Regardless of any priority, the reduction of the claim for
1902 was proper. The -District Court had the right to investigate the legality and amount of the, tax for 1902, and to reduce
it, under § 64a, and the board of assessors had no power to
make the charge on any capital stock not issued and outstanding. Trenton Heat & Power Co. v. State Board5.9 Assessors, 63 Atl. Rep. 1005; Arimes Copper Co. v. State Board,
69 N. J.. L. 121; Peoples Investment Co. v. Assessors, 37 Vroom,
175.
The claim for 1903 should be disallowed, because said claim
was not in existence and did not constitute a debt, at the time
the bankruptcy petition was filed, and was not then a tax
legally due and owing. Re Aultman, Miller & Co., 12 A. B. R.
12; Emmerman v. Ohio Steel & Iron Co., 13 A. B. R., 40; and
see forms of this court in bankruptcy, Nos. 31 to 36.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

after, making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The provisions of the bankrupt law governing the payment of taxes 'are found in secti6n 64a, act of 1898 (30 Stat.
563, U. S. Comp. Stat. 1901, p. 3447), which reads:
"SEC. 64a. The court shall order the trustee to pay all
taxes legally due and owing by the bankrupt to the-United

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the GQurt.

203 U. S.

States, State, county, district, or municipality in advance of
the payment of dividends to creditors, and upon filing the
receipts of the proper public officers for such payment he shall
be credited with the amount thereof, and in case any question
arises as to the amount or legality of any such tax the same
shall be heard and determined by the court."
The statute of the State of New Jersey (Gen. Stat. 1895,
§§ 251, 252, 257, 258, 260), by its title undertakes to provide
for, the imposition of state taxes upon certain corporations
and for the collection thereof. It requires the corporation to
make return to the state board of assessors on or before the
first Tuesday in May of each year and to pay an annual license
fee or franchise tax of a certain per cent on its capital stock
issued and outstanding on January 1 of each year, up. to and
including $3,000,000; a different per cent on sums in excess
of $3,000,000, and not exceeding $5,000,000, and on outstanding capital stock exceeding $5,000,000, $50 per million
or any part, thereof. In case the corporation shall fail to
make return the state board shall ascertain and fix the amount
of the annual license fee, or franchise tax, and shall report to
'the comptroller on.or before the first Monday iff June the basis
and amount of the tax as returned by each company to, or
ascertained by the board, which shall then become due and
payable, and it shall be the duty of the state treasurer to receive the same. If the tax remains unpaid on July first after
the- same becomes due it shall thenceforth bear interest at
the rate of one per cent per month. That the tax shall be a
debt due, from the company to the State, for which it may
maintain an action at law for recovery thereof, after the
same shall have been in arrears for the period of one month,
and the tax shall be a preferred debt in case of insolvency,
and in cases of arrears for three months the State may apply
for an injunction to restrain the company from exercising
its corporate franchise; and that if any corporation shall be
delinquent for two years its charter shall be. void, unless further
time be given for the payment of taxes.

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is contended for the appellee that these provisions do not
entitle the State to the payment of itu claim as a preferred
tax within the meaning of the bankrupt act. It is insisted,
in the first place, thae'aproper construction of the act of 1898
does not require the payment of taxes to a State whereii the
bankrupt has no property; .and the State'no means of collecting the tax. from property within its jurisdiction. And it is.
urged that the taxes to be paid are those legally due and:.
owing to the United States, State, county, district or municipality, which does not contemplate payment to any and all
States, but only to THE State, which, it is insisted, should be
interpreted with the limitation stated.
It is to be noted that there is a very significant difference
in this respect, in the act of 1898, from the provisions of the
bankrupt act of 1867, 14 Stat. 530, c. 176, the law in force
last before, and doubtless in the view of Congress when the'
present law was drafted. That act, of 1867, gave priority of
payment to all debts due to the United States, and all taxes
and assessments under the laws thereof, all debts due to the
State iii which the proceedings in bankruptcy were pending,
and all taxes and assessments made under the laws Of such
State, and provided that nothing contained in the act should
interfere with the assessment and collection of taxes by- the
authority of the United States or any State.
The requirement of the present law is a wide departure
from the act of 1867, and specifically obliges the trustee to
pay all taxes legally due and owing, without distinction between the United States and the State, county, district or
municipality.
An argument is made as to the alleged injustice of this
requirement, in that it may take away from the local creditors
in the State where the property of the corporation is situated
practically all the assets of the corporation in favor of the
State *here the corporation is organized, but has no business
or property. And it is urged that to permit a State under
such circumstances to have a preference in the payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

taxes would give to it an advantage which it could not otherwise obtain for want of charge or lien upon the property.
But considerations of this character, however properly addressed to the legislative branch of the government, can' have
no place, in influencing judicial -determination. It is the
province of the court to enforce, not to make the laws, and
if the law works inequality the redress, if any, must be had
from Congress.
The question is, is the claim a tax legally due and owing
to the State of New Jersey? We have been cited to many
cases in the State of New Jersey, some of which it is alleged
maintain the theory of the appellant that this is a tax, and
some the contrary view.
Without undertaking to analyze these numerous cases or
to harmonize the, views expressed by different judges, we
think the weight of judicial decision in that State Tavors the
view* that this is a tax imposed upon the right of the corporation to continue to be a corporation, with power to exercise
its corporate franchises, based upon the amount of its capital
stock issued and outstanding.
In Hancock, Comptroller, v. Singer Manufacturing Co., 62
N. J. t. 289, 335, it was said:
"The act of 1884 (Pamph. L, p. 232).is entitled 'An act to
provide for the imposition of state taxes upon certain corporations 'and for the collection thereof.'
"In that act this imposition is called a 'yearly licehse fee
or tax.
"In a supplement passed to the, act of 1884 (Pamph. L,
1891, p. 150) it is styled 'a tax.'
"In a further supplement, passed in 1892 (Pamph. L,
p. 136), it is called 'an annual license fee or franclise tax.'
"It is wholly immaterial what' name may be given to it.
The fact that it is called a 'license fee' or 'franchise tax'
cannot validate it. It is levied under an act passed 'to authorize the imposition of state taxes,' and it is none the less
an interdicted imposition [having reference to the charter

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

then being considered], and none the less a tax because it is
given a new name.
"Although under our adj-,dications it. is not a tax. on prop(rty in a sense which brings it witlin article 4, section 7,
paragraph 12, of our state constitution, it is a tax on the
capital stock of the corporation. Otherwise the act would
be manifestly void for want. of a fitle expressing its object,
and the State would be deprived ofall its.revenue under the
act of 1892. The franchise of the company is the right to
hold property and exercise its corporate privileges. The
Supreme Court of the United States has decided that 'vhere
a corporation is exempted from taxation, it is not subject
to a tax on its franchise. IVilminglon Railroad Co. v. Reid,
13 Wall. 264."

While we take this view of the decisions of the Supreme
Court of New Jersey and reach the conclusion that the claim
in question is for a tax within the meaning of the law as construed by that court, the bankruptcy act is a Federal statute,
t'he ultimate interpretation of which is in the Federal courts.,
It is doubtless true, as was said in the opinion of the learned
ju(lge speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case,
lhnt if thehighest court of the State shodld decide that a given
statute hinposed -no tax within the -meaning of the law as
interjreted by, it, a Federal court, in passing upon the bankruptey act, would not compel the State to accept a preference
from the bankrupt's estate upon a different view of the law.
Conceding the doctrine that the meaning of a statute is a
state question, except where rights, the subject of adjudication by the Federal courts, have accrued before its construction by the state eourt, or the question of contract within the
protection of the Federal Constitution is involved, still a state
court, while entitled to great. consideration, cannot conelusively decide that to be a tax within the meaning of a
Federal law, providing for the payment of taxes, which is not
so in fact The section (64a) itself declares that in case of
disputes as to the amount -or legality of any such tax, they

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

shall be heard and determined by the court. The state court
may construe a statute and define its meaning, ' ut whether
its construction creates a tax within the meaning of a Federal
statute, giving a preference to taxes, is a Federal question, of
ultimate decision in this court.
We are of opinion that this claim was for a tax. The language of the act, as we have said, is very broad and includes
all taxes. It is not necessary to enter upon a discussion of the
different forms which taxes may take. Generally speaking,
a tax is a pecuniary burden laid upon individuals or property
for the purpose of supporting the Government. We think this
exaction is of that character. It is required to be paid by the
corporation after organization in invitum. The amount is
fixed by the statute, to be paid on the outstanding capital
stock of the corporation each year, and capable of being enforced by action against the will of the taxpayer. As was
said by Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court in Met/wether v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472, 513:
"Taxes are not debts. It was so held by this court in the
case of Oregon v. Lane County,' reported in 7 Wallace. Debts
are obligations for the payment*of money founded upon contract, express or implied. Taxes are imposts levied for the
support of the Govermnent, or for some special purpose authorized by it. The consent of the taxpayer is not necessary
to their enforcement. They operate in invitun. Nor is their
nature affected by the fact that in some States-and we believe in Tennessee-an action of debt may be instituted for
their recovery. The form of procedure cannot change their
character."
It is urged by the appellee, and upon this ground the case
was decided in the Circuit Court. of Appeals, that this is in no
just sense a tax levied by the State, but is the result of a contract by which the corporation was brought into existence,
the consideration being the payment of annual sums for the
privileges given it by the State, for which no lien is given upon
the property, but only a right of action for their recovery.

'NEW JERSEY v., ANDERSON.
203 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

But this imposition is in no just sense a contract.. The amount
to be paid, fixed by the statute, is subject to control and
change at the will of the State. It is imposed upon all corporations, whether organized before, or after the passage of
the act. The corporation is not consulted in fixing the amount
of the tax, and under the laws of New Jersey the charter of
such corporations .as this may be amended or repealed. Hancock v. The Singer Manufacturing Co., 62 N. J. L. 289, 328.
The form of the collection of taxes is left to the discretion
of the taxing power; sometimes a lien is provided, sometimes
a summary method of collection is awarded; in other cases, an
action for debt is given, and, as in the present case, with the
right of prohibition of the exercise of corporate franchises by
injunction for failure to pay.
We think then that, as denominated in the statute, this
was a tax imposed by the State upon the corporation for the
privilege of existence and the continued right to exercise its
franchise.
The State which created this corporation had the right to
fix the terms of its existence, and to provide, if it saw fit so
to do, that for the continued existence of its franchise the
corporation should pay certain sums to the State, fixed by
the amount of its yearly outstanding capital stock. Metropolitan St. Ry. Co. v. New York,'199 U. S. 1, 8, 37 et seq.
Coming to the specific objections to the claim for the year
1902, the claim was presented upon the basis of $40,000,000
of outstanding capital stock, when in fact there was only
$10,000,000 of such stock, the assessment by the state board
being upon the former sum and made upon the failure of the
corporation to report. But we do not think the finding of
the state board is conclusive. The tax is to be assessed upon
capital actually outstanding. It may well be doubted whether
the board had power to tax any other stock. But be that as
it may, section 64a specifically provides that in case any question arises as to the amount or legality of taxes, the same shall
be heard and determined by the court, with a view to ascer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
HARLAN, J., FULLER, CH. J., and PECKHA.34, J., dissenting.

203 U. S.

taining the amount really due. We do not think it was the
intention of Congress to conclude the bankruptcy courts by
the findings of boards of this character, and that the claim
should have been upon the basis of the capital stock actually
outstanding.
The amount claimed for the year 1903, it is insisted, had not
accrued at the time of the adjudication in bankruptcy, which
was on April 23, 1903, the return being made on May 2, 1903,
and the assessment was not made until July 1, 1903; but the
annual return required to be made to. the board, on or before
the first Tuesday in May, is upon the basis of the capital stock
issued and outstanding the first of January preceding the
making of the return. The bankrupt act requires the payment of all taxes legally due and owing. We think the tax
thus assessed upon that basis was legally due and owing,
although not collectible until after the adjudication.
We reach the conclusion that, under the bankruptcy act
these taxes, in the amounts hereinbefore indicated, were entitled to preferential payment in favor of the State of New
Jersey, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reaching
a contrary conclusion.
Its judgment will be
Reversed and the cause will be remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with ihis opinion.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

JUSTICE FULLER

and MR.

(with whom concurred MR.
JUSTICE PECKHAM)

CHIEF

dissenting.

The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Peckham and myself dissent
from the opinion of the court. In our judgment the "taxes"
owing by a bankrupt to a State-which section 64a of the'
bankruptcy act provides shall be paid in advance of the payment of dividends to creditors-do not embrace an "annual
license fee or franchise tax" (the, words of the New Jersey
statute), which, strictly, is not a property tax, but only an
exaction by the State for the privilege given to a corporation

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
203 U.S.

HARLAN, J., FULLER, CH.J., and PECKHAM, J.,.dissenting.

to do certain business under its charter. We think the bankruptcy act should be so construed. It cannot be otherwise
construed without doing gross injustice to those creditors of
the bankrupt corporation who have business transactions
with it at its place of busiess. Here the bankrupt corporation did no business in New Jersey. So far as appears, it did
not have, nor expect to have, any connection with that State
except to become incorporated under its laws. It had its
seat of operations and all its tangible property in the State
of Illinois. It had no property in New Jersey. Its scheme
was to get a charter from New Jersey and then go to another
,State for purposes of its business. We do not think that
Congress intended that in the distribution of the assets of a
bankrupt preference should be given to the claims of a State
which have their origin in and are wholly based upon a bargain
with the State whereby certain privileges are granted in exchange for 'certain payments-privileges which the State may
grant oi' withhold at pleasure. In our opinion the word
"taxes" in the bankruptcy act was intended to embrace only
burdens or charges imposed ininitti and which were in their
nature and in reality "taxes," as distinguished from governmental exactions for privileges granted. The claim of New
Jersey, whatever its true amount, should not be given prioiity,
but should be placed upon the same footing with claims of
other creditors. This view is consistent with the act of Congress.

