OCTOBER TERM, 1906.

278

Statement of the Case.

203'U. S.

been completed- at the time the goods were seized, the railroad
company would have no right to defend .on the ground that it
submitted to the superior authority, granting that such a de-

fense, if established, would relieve it from liability."
• Moreover, in this court counsel in their brief onf behalf of
the defendant in error rely exclusively upon the correctness of
the construction given to the Wilson Act by the court below,
and do not urge, in the event such construction be not sustained, that it was exempt for any reason'whatever from
liability.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is reversed
and the case is remanded to that court fdr further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

C. H. NICHOLS'LUMBER COMPANY v. FRANSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WI'STEIN I)ISTIZlCT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 30.

Argued October 17, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1906.

A declaration that plaintiff is a resident of a State of the U"nion and a citizen
of a foreign country under a nmonarchical form of government is sufficient
to show the meaning of the pleader and the nationality of the plaintiff,
and there is no merit in an objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, diverse citizenship eiting, because plaintiff was not a citizen but
a subject of the foreign power.
While under the Judiciary Act of 1891, in case of direct review on question
of jurisdiction, when the record does not otherwise show how the question
was raised, the certificate of the Circuit Court may be considered for the
purpose of supplyimg such deficiency; when the elements necessary' to
decide the question are in the record the better practice, in every case. of
direct review on question of jurisdiction, is to make apparent on the record
by a bill of exceptions, or other appropriate mode, the fact that the
question of jurisdiction was raised, and passed on, and also the' elements
upon which the question was decided.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

NICHOLS LUMBER CO. v. FRANSON.
203 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Carroll T. Bond, with whom Mr. William L. Marbury
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The allegation of plaintiff's being a citizen of Sweden was
not a sufficient allegation for the purposes of jurisdiction in
the Circuit Court in a suit between plaintiff and a corporation
existing under the laws of Wisconsin. Stuart v. Easton,
156 U. S. 46; Hennessy v. RichardsonDrug Co., 189 U. S. 25, 34.
If the allegations in the complaint had been sufficient, as
still seems to be supposed, the denial in the first )aragraph
of the answer would have been sufficient to put those allegations in issue. Roberts v. Lewis, 144 U. S. 653, 657; Yokum
v. Parker, 130 Fed. Rep. 770; Ballinger's Code, etc., §§ 4907,
4909.
The proof that plaintiff was "fromn Sweden," and "came
from Sweden to Minnesota in 1903," would not be sufficient
to support a. verdict for the plaintiff. The allegations in the
complaint having been denied, it would have been essential
to the plaintiff's recovery that he sustain them by proof.
The burden of proof would have beenupon him to support.
them by evidence. Roberts v. Lewis, 144 U. S. 653, 657;
Yocum v. Parker, 130 Fed. Rep. 770.
Mr. Walter S. Fulton and Mr. Martin J. Lund, for defendant
in error, submitted:
The allegation of citizenship negatived the idea that plaintiff was a citizen of the State of Washington. Stuart v. Easton,
156 U. S. 46, distingished.
It is no longer necessary to describe a foreign citizen as ai
alien. Act of March 3, 1891. This statute supersedes the
provisions of Rev. Stat. § 629, relating to jurisdiction in civil
suits, where an alien was a party, and it is no longer necessary
to describe a party as an alien. Hennessy v. Richards,'on
Drug Co., 189 U. S. 24.
If diverse citizenship is alleged, it is not put in issue by a
general denial. Adams v. Shirk, 117 Fed. Rep. S01 Col!iiw
v. City.-of Ashland, 112 Fed. Rep. 175.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

,

203 U. S.

JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

A motion has been made to dismiss the writ of error, among
others, oil the ground ot the absence of a bill of exceptions and
the character of the order appealed from.. We pass to the
merits of the case without stopping to review the grounds of
the motion, as we think they will be substantially disposed of
l)y the views which we shall hereafter express.
By this writ of error the C. 11. Nichols Lumber Company
seeks the reversal of a judgment obtained by Charles Franson
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Vestern District of Washington. Considering the record alone, and putting out of view for the moment the effect of statements
contained in a certificate made by the court below, on the
allowance of the writ of error, the case is this: The action was
brought to recover for personal injuries alleged to have been
sustained while in the employ of the defendant. The jurisdiction of the court below was invoked solely upon the ground
of diversity of citizenship,, it being alleged in the first paragraph
of the complaint that the (lefendant was a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Washington, and doing
business in the State of Washington, and that the plaintiff
was at the time of the filing of the complaint, and had be(n for
more than a year prior thereto, "a resident of Washington and
a citizen of Sweden." Admitting its incorporation, and that
it. was doing business in the. State of Washington, the defendant,
by its answer, specifically denied each and every other allegation of the first as well as other specified., paragraphs. of the
complaint.
The cause was tried to a jury, and, after verdict and remittitur of a portion-thereof, a judgment was entered in favor of
plaintiff. The record does not contain a bill of exceptions,
and in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error it is stated that
none was prepared.
This writ of error, upon the ground solely of a want of jurisdiction in the trial court, was prayed and allowed, and a

NICHOLS LUMBER CO. v. FRANSON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

formal certificate was made by the judge, reciting the time
when and how the question of jurisdiction was raised and
decided, accompanied with a statement of the pleadings and
of the court's impression of certain testimony given at th,
trial by the plaintiff, deemed by the court pertinent to the
elucidation of the question of jurisdiction. The certificate
coicludes with the statement of enumerated, "questions of
jurisdiction," which the court was of opinion arose for decision,
all of them ,being ,based upon the overruling by the court, of a
motion to dismiss, the action for want of jurisdiction, which
motion, it is recited in the certificate, was made between verdict
and judgment. And the only ground here assigned as error
is predicated upon the action of the court in denying such motion to dismiss.
As the Circuit Court was without power to make a certificate
containing a statement of facts as the basis for legal propositions upon which it desired the guidance of this court, Mexican
Central Ry. Co. v. Ecknzan, 187 U. S. 429; United States v.
Rider, 163 U. S. 132, it follows, speaking in a general sense,
that our right to review on a di'ect proceeding concerning
the jurisdiction of that court nmust depend upon. the record
and not upon the mere statement of facts made in the certificate prepared by the trial court. Applying this general rule,
as it nowhere appears from the record that the issue as to jurisdiction presented by the motion to dismiss, the overruling
of which is.
the sole ground for reversal relied upon in the
assignment of error, was made or passed upon by the court,
we should be constrained to dismiss this writ of error on the
ground that the. record did not disclose the presence in the case
of the question of jurisdiction which is made the basis of the
assignment of error. As, however, under the Judiciary Act
of 1891, on a direct review of a question of jurisdiction, the
trial judge is authorized to certify as to the existence of such
questiofi, we think we. may look at his certificate for the purpose of.ascertaining when and how the question of jurisdiction
was raised, although, for the purpose of deciding the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1906'
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

shown to have been thus raised, we may not resort to the
statements in the certificate for the purpose of supplying
elements of decision which we could not properly consider in
an action at law without a bill of exceptions. We have said
that we may resort to the certificate, in the absence of a proper
showing on the record as to when and how the question of
jurisdiction was raised and decided, for the limited purpose
stated, because the power to do so is implied in a previous
decision of the court, North American &c. Co. v. Morrison,
178 U. S. 262, and because of the general rule that it would
be our duty, without action of the trial court or of the parties,
to look at the record to determine whether or not the court
below had jurisdiction of the action. Thomas v. Ohio State
University Trustees, 195 U. S.207. It is apparent under the
rule we have stated that, whilst we must consider the record
for the purpose of determining the question of jurisdiction
which the certificate shows adequately to have been raised,
we may not consider, in passing upon that question, in the
absence of a bill of exceptions, the extraneous matter, such as
the testimony of the plaintiff, etc., which forms no part of the
record. The question, therefore, for decision under these
circumstances is merely this: Does the record show jurisdiction
in the court below? This solely depends upon the contention
that the allegation in the complaint of the alienage of the
plaintiff was insufficient.
The allegation was as follows: "That the plaintiff now is and
for more than one year last past has been a resident of Washington and a citizen of Sweden." In brief, the argument is that
at the time the action was brought Sweden was under a monarchical form of government, being, jointly with Norway,
under the rule of the King of Sweden and Norway, and if the
plaintiff owed allegiance to the government of Sweden he was
not a "citizen," but a "subject" of that country. It is not,
however, disputed that/although at the time of the bringing
of this action, Sweden, a limited -monarchy, was united to
Norway under the Same king, and' the two couniries' were

NICHOLS LUMBER CO. v. FRANSON.
203 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

bound to assist each other in the event of war, they were otherwise free and independent. (9 Century Dictionary and
Encyclopedia, 969.) The allegation that the plaintiff was a
resident of the State of Washington clearly shows that the
designation citizen of Sweden was not employed to indicate
mere residence, and could only have been intended as a statement of the nationality of the plaintiff, the countiy to which
he bore allegiance. Whether, as contended for the defendant
in error, the plaintiff, if he owed allegiance to the ruler of the
kingdom of Sweden, was properly described, in the strictest
technical sense as a citizen instead of as a subject of Sweden,
we need not consider. The meaning of the pleader being
evident, the objection is without merit. Hennessy v., Richardson Drug Co., 189 U. S. 25.
Whilst we hold that in a case of direct review unlder the
Judiciary Act of 1891, when the record does not otherwise
show when and how the question of jurisdiction was raised,
the certificate of the Circuit Court may be considered for the
purpose of supplying such deficiency when the elements necessary to decide the question are in the record, we deem it
the better practice in every case of direct review on a question
of jurisdiction to make apparent on the record by a bill of
exceptions, or other appropriate mode, the fact that the question of jurisdiction was raised and passed upon and the elements upon which the decision of the question was based.
Judgment affirmed.

