NAT'L COUNCIL U. A. .M. v. STATE COUNCIL.

151

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TIE JUNIOR ORDER OF
UNITED AMERICAN MECHANICS OF THE UNITED
STATES v. STATE COUNCIL OF VIRGINIA, JUNIOR
ORDER OF UNITED AMERICAN MECHANICS OF
THE STATE OF VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT. OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 89.

Argued November 7, 8, 19006.--Decided November 19, 1906.

A benefit association incorporated under a state law and styling itself a
National Council granted charters to various volntary organizations
in other States, styled State Councils, for similar purposes under conditions expressed in the charters. A dominant portion of the members
of a State Council procured a charter from the state legislature granting the corporation so formed under the same name, powers, in some
respects exclusive in that State, to carry on a similar work, but saving
any rights of property pcssessed by the National Council. In a suit,
brought by the latter, held that:
Whatever relations may have existed between the National Council and
the voluntary State Council there was no contract between the former
and the incorporated State Council which was impaired, and the act
of incorporation was ndt void within the impairment clause of the Federal Constitution.
A State has the right to exclude a foreign corporation and forbid it from
constituting branches within it boundaries, and this power extends
to a corporation already within its jurisdiction. A single foreign corporation may be expelled from a State by a special act if the act does not
deprive it of property without due process of law.
The property of which a corporation cannot be deprived without due
process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment does not include the
mere right of a foreign corporation to extend its business and membership in a State which otherwise may exclude it from its boundaries.
104 Virginia, 197, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. V. Meredith, with whom Mr. Smith Bennett and
Mr. Ellis G. Kinkead were on the brief, for plaIntiff in error:

The legislature of Virginia had no power to t'ake away the
right of the National Council to continue to control an(l to use,
through its subordinate body, the Virginia votuntary associa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

tion, the title or name "State Council of Virginia, Juhior
Order United American Mechanics." This is true, whether
the Virginia corporation is within or without the jurisdiction of Virginia.
A foreign corporation is entitled to come into the courts of
Virginia to protect its right to its name, Bank of Augusta
v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 590, although not a commercial
corporation, but created for intellectual and moral purposes, especially where there is a benevolent fund. Knights
of Honor v. Oeters, 95 Virginia, 610, 615; State v. Dunn, 134
N. Car. 663, 667; Gorman v. Russell, 14 California, 532; Otto
v. Tailors, P. & P. Union, 75 California,,308, 313; Bauer
v. Samson Lodge, 102 Indiana, 262; Dolan v. Court Good
Samaritan, 128 Massachusetts, 437; Lavalle v. Societe &c.,
17 R. .680; Blair v. Supreme Council, 208 Pa. St. 262;
Ludowiski v. Benevolent Society, 29 Mo. App. 337, 341; State
v. Georgia Med. Society, 38 Georgia, 608, 626; Dartmouth College case, 4 Wheat. 699; Lahiff v. St. Joseph Society, 76 Con.
necticut, 648; Baird v. Wells, L. R., 44 Ch. Div. 661, 676,
O'Brien v. Protective Assn., 56 Atl. Rep. 151.
Even the wrongful use of the ritual, seal and paraphernalia
of a secret society has been held to justify the intervention
of- a court of equity. Maccabees &c. v. Maccabees &c., 97
N. W. Rep. (Mich.) 779, 783; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri,
173. See Y. W. C. A. v. Y. W.'C. A., 194 Illinois, 194, in which
it was held that the object, work, sources, of support and field
of labor of each being the same substantially, and the name
of the appellee having been adopted and in use by it many
years prior to' the incorporation of the appellant, the appellant
has no right to adopt as its corporate name one so similar to
that of the appellee, or to incorporate in its name words
which would indicate to the public that it was the representative of app~llee and the conference with which appellee is
affiliated. See also Grand Lodge v. Graham, 31 L. R. A. 138;
McFadden v. Murphy, 149 Massachusetts, 341, approved in
Kane v. Shields, 167 Mdssachusetts, 392; Altman v. Benz, 27

NAT'L COUNCIL U. A. M. v. STATE COUNCIL.
203 U. S.

153

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

N. J. Eq. 331; Gorman v. O'Connor, 155 Pa.St. 239; Niblack
Ben. Soc. v. O'Connor, 3 Desaus. 581; Y. M. C. A. v, St.
Louis Y. M. C. A., 91 S. W. Rep. 171; Boston Rubber Shoe
Co. v. Boston Rubber Co., 149 Massachusetts, 436, 442; Spiritual
Temple v. Vincent, 105 N. W. Rep. 1026; In re First Presbyterian
Church,.2 Grant's Cases (Pa.), 240; Edison Co. v. Edison Automobile Co., 56 Atl. Rep. 861, 865; Hendricks v. Montague,
L. R., 17 Ch. Div. 638.
It cannot be claimed that a foreign corporation might obtain protection in the Virginia courts against a wrongful use
of its name by persons merely arbitrarily using the same, yet
that in this case no protection can be had because the legislature. of Virginia has chartered the defendant in error under
the name in controversy; that the legislature having so declared the courts chn give no protection.
If such contention were sound, the property rights of every
corporation in the United States would be in danger, for every
State in the Union could charter its home corporations by the
names of those chartered in some other State, and thus wrongfully appropriate to the home' corporations the good will belonging to the foreign companies. Such power for evil cannot
legitimately reside in the several -state legislatures. It cannot be regarded as a local question. Blake v. McClung, 172
U. 8. 260. To hold otherwise would be to hold that state legislatures have inherently the right to commit what by common law and law of nations would be manifest fraud. Peck
Bros. & Co. v. Peck Bros. Co:, 51 C. C. A. 257; Ottoman Cahvey
Co. v. Dane, 95 Illinois, 203; Investor Pub. Co. v. Dobinson,
72 Fed. Rep. 603; Goodyear Rubber Co. v. Goodyear India
Rubber Glove Co., 22 Blatchf 421.
The act of assembly creating defendant in error is void as
beyond the power of the legislature of Virginia although no
specific clause of the constitution of the State may have beeu
violated.
The theory of our government, state and National, is
opposed to. the deposit of inlimited power anywhere. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

executive, the legislative and the judicial branches of these
governments are all of limited and defined powers. There
exist implied reservations of individual rights, without which
the social compact would not exist, and which are respected
by all governments entitled to the name. Farmvillev. Walker,
101 Virginia, 330; Loan Assn. v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 663; see
also Slale v.'Addiington, 12 Mo. App. 221; Dibree v. Lanicr (Tenn.), 12 L. 13. A. 73; McCullough v. Brown (So. Car.),
23 L. 11 A. 410; Cooley Con. Lim. (7th ed.), 559; Lewis v.
Webb, 3 Maine, 326; Willighein v. Kennedy, 2 Georgia, 556;
State v. Duffy, 7 Nevada, 349; Budd v. State, 3 Humph.
483, 492; Vanzant v. Waddcl,'2 Yerg., 260, 269, cited with
approval in Gulf Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 156, and in Cutting v. Kansas City. Co., 183 U. S. 79, 105; Commonwealth
v. Perry, 139 Massachusetts, 198; Page v. Allen, 58 Pa. St.
338; § 21, art. I, § 20, art. V, Const. Virginia, 1869; Griffin v. Cunningham, 20 Gratt. 31; Ratcliffe v. Anderson, 31
Graft. 105.
The charter granted by the National Council to the State
Council was a contract, and the existence of the State Council
was necessary for the proper management of the National
Council. This contract was impaired by the act, creating
defendant in error. Knights of Honor v. Oeters, 95 Virginia,
610, 615; Kain v. Arbeiter &c., 102 N. W. Rep. 746, 750; Kuhl
v. Mayer, 42 Mo. App. 474; Supreme Lodge v. Malta, 30 L. R. A.
838; Baldwin v. Hosmer, 25 L. R. A. 743; Bacon on Ben.
Society, § 37; Knights v. Nitseh, 95 N. W. Rep. 326; Union
Ben. Soc. v. Martin, 67 S. W. Rep. 49.
The statute creating the defendant in error, making it an
independent organization and releasing it from all its duties
and obligations to the National Council, was the authorization of a breach of contract. McGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S.
693.
The word contract as used in the Constitution will not be
given a narrow construction. Dartmouth College Case, 4
Wheat. 518, 630, 645; Bryan v. Board of Education, 151 U. S.

NAT'L COUNCIL U. A. M. v. STATE COUNCIL. 155
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

650; Fuller v. Trustees, 6 Connecticut, 532; Pullord v. Fire
Department, 31 Michigan, 458.
There are many rights of enjoyment, privileges and personal benefits growing out of agreement or contract, which,
though having no actual market value, the courts will enforce because of the mutual obligations contained in such
agreement or contract, provided they are not of governmental nature, like marriage and divorce, or similar rights.
Med. Soc. v. Weatherly, 75 Alabama, 248; Commonwealth v.
St. Patrick Soc., 2 Binney, 441; Evans v. Philadelphia Club,
50 Pa. St. 107; Society v. Commonwealth, 52 Pa. St. 125;
People v. Musical Union, 118 N. Y. 101; Sibley v. Club,
40 N. J. L. 295; Otto v. Tailors' Union, 75 California, 308;
Savannah Cotton Exchange v. State, 54 Georgia, 668; Fisher v.
Keane, L. R., 11 Ch. Div. 353; Lambert v. Wadhams, 46
L. T. Report, 20; Huber v. Martin, 105 N. W. Rep. 1031;
Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 820.
Constitutional protections should be liberally construed.
A close and literal construction deprives them of half their
efficiency, and leads to gradual depreciation of the rights, as
if it consisted more in sound than in substance. Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635; Gulf &c. R. R. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150, 154.
The statute is also violative of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment, which prohibits any State from depriving any person
of life, liberty or property without due process 6f law. The
statute is a flagrant effort to take, so far as the National
Council is concerned, the -property of the citizen of another
State without due process of law. Wally's Heirs v. Kennedy,
2 Yerg. (Tenn.) 556; State v. Duffy, 7 Nevada, 349; Budd v.
State, 3 Humph. 483, 492; Millett v. People, 117 Illinois, 301;
Holden v. Janmes,-11 Massachusetts, 396, 405; Statev. Pennoyer,
18 Atl. Rep. $78; Cooley Const. Lim. 556.
The statute is void, because it also violates the provisions
. of § 1, Fourteenth Amendment, forbidding any State to deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

its laws. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.540, 559;
State v. Odd Fellows, 8 Mo. App. 148, 155.
As to what is discrimination, see Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356, 366; Atchison R. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 105.
No State need allow the corporations of other States to do
business within its jurisdiction unless it chooses, but if it
does, without limitation, express or implied, the corporation
comes in as it has been created. Every corporation necessarily carries its charter wherever it goes, for that is the law
of its existence. Relfe v. Rundle, 103 U. S..
222.
Being thus within the jurisdiction of the State at the time
of the adoption of the statute complained of, and not having
been driven without its jurisdiction by said statute, as declared
by the Supreme Court of Virginia, in construing the same,
the National Council was entitled to the equal -protection of
the laws. Marchant v. Penn. R. R. Co., 153 U. S.380, 389;
Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S.382; Reagan v. Farmers L. & T.
Co., 154 U. S. 362, 410; Cotting v.Kansas City, 183 U. S.105;
Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Connolly v. Union &c. Co.,
184 U. S.540, 558.
The denial to the National Council, plaintiff in error, $f
the right to operate in Virginia, is, in effect, an unwarranted
abridgment of the privileges of the members, citizens of the
United States.
No State can say that an organization of another State,
whether incorporated or voluntary, cannot enter the limits
of a State for the spread of religious, educational, or governmental principles, unless those doctrines be shocking to
decency or manifestly dangerous to the body politic, or that
such an organization cannot enter its limits to solicit adherents and form them into local bodies or associations. The
right of the (people peaceably to assemble for lawful purposes existed long before the adoption of the Constitution of
the United States. In fact, it is, and always has been, one
of the attributes of citizenship under a free government.
United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.542; Watson v. Jones,

NAT'L COUNCIL U. A. M. v. STATE COUNCIL.
203 U. S.

157

Argument for Defendant in Error.

13 Wall.-679, 729; Franklin v. Commonwealth, 10 Barr, 357;
Socicqy v. "Commonwealtl, 52 Pa. St. 125, 132. Especially
is this frue where the questions partake of a national nature.
The rights to be protected by these proceedings are not only
those of the plaintiff in error, the National Council, but also,
those of the State Council, a voluntary association, composed
of the citizens of Virginia, those of the Lovettsville Council,
a domestic corporation of Virginia, and those of each of the
other subordinate councils in the State, voluntary associations composed of the citizens of Virginia, as well as those of
individual members of subordinate councils who are citizens
of Virginia.
Mr. Samuel A. Anderson and Mr. Frank W. Christian, for
defendant in error:
The National Council being a corporation of Pennsylvania,
had no right to exist or carry on any operations in Virginia
except at.-the mere pleasure of the latter State, and persons
acting under its authority as agents and representatives had
no larger power than the corporation they represented. No
contract has been pointed out or can be pointed out by the
plaintiffs in error, the obligation of which has been impaired
by the act of February 17, 1900. Said act does not deprive
the National Council and the other defendants, its agents and
representatives, of liberty or property without due process of
law, nor deny to the said council equal protection of the law.
The State has the power to terminate the right of a foreign
corporation to do business at any time, so long as-it does not
deprive that corporation of its actual property. The provision
of the Federal Constitution in respect to state legislation irnpairing the obligation of contracts has always been limited,
and applied to only cases of contracts creating some right in
respect to property or subjects of pecuniary value. Butler v.
Pennsylvania, 10 How. 402, 416.
No contract is involved-which is within the protection of
the Federal Constitution. Even if there were a contract t that

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

nature, it was made subject to the inherent reserved power of
the State of Virginia at any time to pass an act of the nature
of that of February 17, 1900, excluding the National Council
from further operation, through its agents, within the State.
Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall.
410; Pembina Silver Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S.
181; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; Missouri v. Dockery,
191 U. S. 165; Travellers' LifeIns. Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S.
246; Lehigh Valley Co. v. Hamlin, 23 Fed. Rep. 225; Manhattan Life Ins. Co. v. Warwick, 20 Gratt. 614; Slaughter's Case,
13 Gratt. 767.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to reverse a decree in favor of the
defendant in error, the original plaintiff, and hereinafter
called the plaintiff. 104 Virginia, 197. The plaintiffs in
error will be called the defendants. The plaintiff is a Virginia
corporation. The principal defendant is a Pennsylvania corporation. The other defendants are alleged to be officers of
a voluntary asso'ciation, calling itself by the plaintiff's, name,
and are acting under a charter from the Pennsylvania corporation. The latter was incorporated in 1893, the articles
of association reciting that the associates comprise- the National Council, the supreme head of the order in the United States (where it previously had existed as a voluntary
association). Its objects were to promote the interests of
Americans and shield them from foreign competition, to assist them in obtaining employment, to encourage them in
business, to establish a sick and funeral fund, and to maintain the public school system, prevent sectarian inierferenhce
with the same, and uphold the reading of the Holy Bible in
the schools. As the result of internal dissensions the Virginia corporation was chartered in 1900, with closely similar
objects, omitting those relating to the public schools. It
seems to have consisted of the dominant portion of a former

NAT'L COUNCIL U. A. M. v. STATE COUNCIL.
203 U. S.

159

Opinion of the Court.

voluntary State Council of the same name, from which a
charter issued by the Pennsylvania corporation liad been
withdrawn. The act of incorporation declared that the new
body "shall be the supreme head of the Junior Order of the
United American Mechanics in the State of Virginia," and
provides that it "shall have full and exclusive authority to
grant Charters to subordinate Councils, Junior Order United
American Mechanics, in the State of Virginia, with power to
revoke the same for cause." -The plaintiff and the voluntary
organization of the defendants both have granted and intend
to grant charters to subordinate councils in Virginia, and
are obtaining members and 'fees which each would obtain
but for the other, and are-holding themselves out as the only
true and lawful State Council of the Virginia Junior Order
of United American Mechanics.
The plaintiff sued for an injunction, and the defendants, in
their answer, asked cross relief. The plaintiff obtained a
decree enjoining the defendant corporation and the other
defendants (declared to be shown by their answers to be its
agents and representatives), as officers of the Virginia voluntary association, from continuing within the State the use of
the plaintiff's name or any other name likely to be taken for
it; from using the plaintiff's seal; from carrying out under
such name the objects for which the plaintiff and the Virginia
voluntary association were organized; from granting charters
to subordinate councils in the State as the head of the order
in the State; from interfering in any way with the pursuit of
its objects by the plaintiff within the State; and from designating their officers within the State by appellations set forth
as used by,the plaintiff. On appeal the decree was affirmed,
with a modification, merely by way of caution, providing that
nothing therein contained should, in anywise, interfere with
any personal or property rights that might have accrued
before the date of the Virginia charter. The defendants had
set up in their answer and insisted that the charter impaired
the obligation of the contract existing between the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

and the principal defendant, contrary to Article.I, section 10,
of the Constitution, and also Violated section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment, and they took a writ of error from this
court.
The bill and answer state the two sides of the difference
which led to the split, at length. But those details have no
bearing that needs to be considered here. The only question
before us is the constitutionality of the act of the Virginia
legislature granting the charter. The elements of that question
are the appropriation of the names of the previously existing voluntary society and the exclusive right of granting subcharters in Virginia conferred by the words that we have
quoted. Whether the persons who were .using that name
when they got themselves incorporated were using it rightly
or wrongly dods not matter if the legislature had-the right to
grant the name to them in either case. On the other hand,
we do not consider the question stated to be disposed of by
the limitation put upon the decree by the Supreme Court of
Appeals. Unless the saving of personal and property rights
existing at the date of the charter be read as a construction
of the charter, it does not affect the scope or validity of the
act. And if so read, still it cannot be taken to empty the
specific prohibitions in the decree of all definitemeaning and
to leave only an indeterminate injunction to obey the law at
the defendant's peril. That injunction remains, and imports
what the words of the charter import, that the plaintiff has
been granted certain defined exclusive rights which the court
will enforce.
The decree, however, goes beyond the rights which we have
mentioned as given by the charter. In that respect the discussion here must be limited again. Whether the plaintiff
is using paraphernalia, or a ritual, or a seal, which it should
not be allowed to use, is not before us here. The charter says
nothing about them, and its validity is not affected by any
abuse of rights of property or of confidence which the plaintiff or its members may have practiced.. This court, we re-

NAT'L COUNCIL U. A. M. v. STATE COUNCIL.

161

Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

peat, cannot go beyond a decision upon the constitutionalit,
of the charter granted, and we address ourselves to that.
The contract of which the obligation is alleged to have
been violated is a contract between the plaintiff and the principal defendant. 1yhat that contract is supposed to have
been is not stated, but manifestly there was none. It would
have had to be a contract not to come into existence, at least
with the plaintiff's present functions and name. There have
been cases where administration was taken out on a prematurely born child and a suit brought for causing it to be born
per quod it died but they have failed. Dietrichv. Northampton,
138 M'assachusetts, 14. See Walker v. Great Northern Ry. Co. of
Ireland, 28 L. R. Ir. 69. An antenatal contract presents greater
difficulties still. Even if we should substitute an allegation of
a contract with the members of the plaintiff, the contention
would fail. The contract, if any there was, was not that they
would not become incorporated, but must be supposed to be
that they would retain their subordination to the National
Council, or something of that sort. It is going very far to say
that they contracted not to secede, but whether they did so or
not, it was a matter outside the purview of the charter. There
was nothing in that to hinder their returning to their allegiance. Whether any, and, if any, what contract was made
(National Council, Junior Order United American Mechanics v.
State Council, 64 N. J. Eq. 470, 473; S. C., 66 N. J. Eq. 429), and
whether, if made, it must not be taken to have been made
subject to the ,owers of the State, with which we are about
to deal, are questions which we may pass. See Pennsylvania
College cases, 13 Wall. 190, 218; Bedford v. Eastern Building &
Loan Association, 181 U. S. 227.
The most serious aspect1 of the defense is presented by the
matter of the plaintiff's name.' If the legislation of a State
undertook to appropriate to the use of its own creature a
trade name of known commercial value, of course the argument would be very strong that an act of incorporation could
not intei'fere with existing property rights. And no doubt
VOL. CCIII-l1

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

within proper limits the argument would be as good for a
foreign corporation as for a foreign person. But that is not
what has been done in this case.
The name in question is not the name of the principal
defendant, but distinguished from that. name as State and
National Councils no doubt generally are distinguished by
members of similar institutions. It .is the name of a voluntary association of which the officers are defendants. But it
is not used even by that association in its own right, but only
under a charter from, and in the right of, the Pennsylvania
corporation. Furthermore, the ,name is not, associated with
a product of any kind. Its only value to the defendants, in
a property sense, is as tending to invite membership in a club
which professes to derive its existence and its powers from
the Pennsylvania company. It does not seem likely that any
one would join the plaintiff, and certainly no member could
be retained, in ignorance of its alienation from the National
Council. As the National Council has its branches elsewhere,
and as the plaintiff is on its face a state organization, competition outside the State appears improbable. So that the
claim of the defendants comes down to a claim of right to
compete within the State, and a right, as we have said, of or
in behalf of the Pennsylvania corporation, which controls the
existence of its subordinate Virginia councils. Thus the
question as to the grant of the name passes over into the
question as to the exclusive right of the plaintiff to issue
charters which was the other legislative grant.
The Supreme Court of Appeals was right, therefore, in treating the constitutional question as depending on the power of
the State with regard to foreign corporations. That must
decide the case. Now it is true, of course, that an unconstitutional law no more binds foreign corporations than it binds
others. Carrollv. Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401,409. And
no doubt a law specially directed against a foreign corporation might be unconstitutional, for instance, as depriving it
of its. property without due process of law. See Blake v.

NAT'L COUNCIL U. A. M. v. STATE COUNCIL.
203 U. S.

163

Opinion of the Court.

McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 260. But when the so-called property
consists merely in the value that there might be in extending
its business or membership into a State,. that property, it
hardly needs to be said, depends upon the consent of the State
to let the corporation come into the State. The State of Virginia had the undoubted right to exclude th e Pennsylvania
corporation and to forbid its constituting branches within the
Virginia boundaries. As it had' that right before the corporation got in, so it had the right to turn it out after it got .in.
Security Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246. It follows that the State could impose-the more limited restriction.
that simply forbade the granting of charters- to "subordinate
.Councils, Junior Order United American Mechanics, in the
State of Virginia."
It is argued that the power of the State in this case was
less than it otherwise might have been because it did not turn
the Pennsylvania corporation out. The Supreme Court of
Appeals says that the plaintiff's charter leaves the whole
order of things as it existed, unaffected except by the exclusive right of the plaintiff to issue, subordinate charters.- It
is said that the general statutes recognized the defendant and
authorized such associations to continue within the State. A
subordinate Council of the order had. been granted a special
charter which is not revoked. The conclusion is drawn that
the restrictions upon the defendant which flow from the
charter to the' plaintiff amount to a denial, of the -equal protection of the laws of Virginia to a person within its jurisdiction. But the power of the State as to foreign, corporations
does not depend upon their being outside .of its jurisdiction.
Those within thejurisdiction, in such sense as they ever can
be said to be within it, do not acquire a right not to be turned
out except by general laws. A single foreign corporation,
especially one unique in character, like the National Council,
might be expelled by a special act. It equally could be restricted in the -more limited way.
There were many difficult questions' presented to the -state

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

court which cannot be reviewed here. As to the constitutionality of the plaintiff's charter we are of opinion that the
court was right.
Decree affirmed.

CLARK v. WELLS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 42. Submitted October 18, 1906.-Decided November 19, 1906.
No valid judgment in personam can be rendered against a defendant without personal service or waiver of summons and voluntary appearance;
an appearance, for the sole purpose of obtaining a removal to a Federal
court, of a defendant, not personally served but whose property has been
attached in a suit in a state court, does not submit the defendant to the
general jurisdiction or deprive him of the right to object, after the removal of the case, to the manner of service.
After a case has been removed from the state court to the Federal court
the latter has full control of the case as it was when the state court was
deprived of its jurisdiction, and property properly attached in the state
court is still held to answer any judgment rendered against the defendant, and publication of the summons in conformity with the state practice
is sufficient as against the property attached. But a judgment entered
on such service by publication can be enforced only against property
attached.
Where a judgment collectible only from property attached is absolute
on its face, the court so entering it exceeds its jurisdiction and the judgment will be modified and made collectible only. from such property.
136 Fed. Rep. 462, modified and affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Walter M. Bickford, Mr. George F. Shelton and Mr.
William A. Clark, Jr., for plaintiff in error:
The Circuit Court was wholly without jurisdiction to proceed
in said cause either against the person or property of plaintiff
in error, and the judgment against him was void.
The attachment of his property in the State of Montana did
not give the state court jurisdiction to proceed to render a judg-

