MISSISSIPPI R. R. COM. b. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 335
203 U. S.

Syllabus.

await the evidence of appellant showing the invalidity of the
assessment complained of, yet they did introduce evidence
which we think clearly establishes that appellant justly owes
the amount of the tax which has been adjudged against the
estate of its cestui que trust."
We think it sufficiently appears that the plaintiff had an
opportunity to be heard upon the question of the validity of
the tax, both for want of notice in'
fact, and whether the property assessed for back taxes had really been omitted from the
original list for the years in question, and was therefore properly
taxable under the assessment for back taxes. Even if the
assessment had been made by the assessor without notice, yet
if upon the hearing in this cause the plaintiff had the right
and an opportunity to be heard, and the assessment was
thereon reduced, it has obtained all the hearing it was entitled
to. We think the plaintiff did have such a hearing, and the
judgment is correct, so far at least as this court is authorized
to review it. It is therefore
Affirmed.

MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMMISSION v. ILLINOIS
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 64.

Argued October 26, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Where complainant not only sets up diverse citizenship but also a constitutional question he has the right to appeal from the judgment of the Circuit
Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and from its decision an appeal or
writ of error may be taken to this court. Field v. Barber Asphalt Co.,
194 U. S. 618, distinguished.
A commission created by the law of a State for the purpose of supervising
and controlling the acts of railroad companies operating within the State
is subjeot to suit, a44 p suit brought by a company of another State in the

IOCTOBER TERM, 190ยง.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

Circuit Court of the United States against the members of the commission
is not a suit against the State within the prohibitions of the Eleventh
Amendment.
The Railroad Commission of Mississippi is not, as has been determined by
the highest court of that State, a court, but a mere administrative agency
of the State, and the prohibitions of ยง 720, Rev. Stat., against injunctions
from United States courts to stay proceedings in state courts are not
applicable thereto; and even though the Commission might, under the
state law, resort to the state courts to aid it in enforcing its orders the proceeding cannot be regarded as one in the state courts within the meaning
of ยง 720, Rev. Stat. While a state railroad commission may, in the
absence of congressional legislation, order a railroad company to stop
interstate trains at stations where there is only an incidental interference
with interstate commerce, based on a legal exercise of the police power of
the State exerted to secure proper facilities for the citizens of the State,
where the railroad company has-as in this case-furnished all proper
and reasonable facilities, such an order is an improper and illegal interference with interstate commerce and void as a violation of the commerce
clause of the Constitution.
138 Fed. Rep. 327, affirmed.

THE railroad commission of the State of Mississippi, and
its members and clerk, as appellants, bring to this court by
appeal the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the

Fifth Circuit, which court reversed the judgment of the United
States Circuit Court for the Southern District of Mississippi
in favor of the appellants, and remanded the case, with di-

rections to enter a decree for the complainant, the railroad
company.

The case, as it appears in the record, shows the following
facts:
The citizens of the town of Magnolia, which has about 1,200
inhabitants, and is situated in the State of Mississippi, on the
line Of the railroad of the defendant in error, and about ninetyeight miles north of New Orleans, in April, 1903, presented a

petition to the Mississippi Railroad Commission, asking that
commission to order the railroad company to stop its passenger

trains numbers one, three and four at the Magnolia station,
the ground of the request being, as stated in the petition, that

Magnolia was one of the most progressive towns in the State
and the county seat of the county, and the petitioners believed

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COM. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 337
Statement -of the Case.

203 U. S.

that they were entitled to h&ve these trains make regular
stops at that point, and they stated their belief that it was
for the best interest of the public, as well as the town, to have
the passenger trains named make regular stops at the town.
Trains numbers one and three Were south bound trains
from Chicago, passing Magnolia on their way to New Orleans,
while train number four was a train on its way north to Chicago
from New Orleans.
After a hearing before the railroad commission, on notice
Ito. the railroad company, the commission made an order granting, the application as to trains one and three and denying
it as to number four.
Before obeying the order the company brought this suit
to enjoin its enforcement. Upon the filing of the bill a temporary injunction was issued, and a subsequent motion to
dissolve it was denied. The defendant in the suit, the railroad
commission, answered the bill, and denied that the railroad
company furnished the town of Magnolia with adequate accommodations for the south, and put in issue the allegations of
the bill that the order made by the commission was unreasonable or an illegal interference with the interstate commerce
of the railroad company. The case came on for hearing before
the Circuit Court, at the end of which a decree was made
denying the relief asked for by the complainant, the court
holding that the order of the commission was not unreasonable,
and that, therefore, the temporary injunction should be and
it was dissolved. An appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
was prayed for by the railroad, company and granted.
The bill stated, amongst other things, that the. corporation
was created under the laws of the State of Illinois, and that
the complainant was a resident of that State, and domiciled
in the city of Chicago; and that the railroad commission was
created by the State of Mississippi, and its individual members
were citizens and residents of that State. The complainant
further showed that it was operating*an interstate line of rail.road, extending from the city of New Orleans, in Louisiana,
VOL. cciii-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

north through that State and the States of Mississippi, Kentucky, Indiana and Illinois to the Great Lakes of the Northwest, connecting at various points with other lines of interstate
railroads. It is also averred that the Congress of the United
States had established the line of railroad operated by the
complainant as a national highway, for the accommodation of
interstate commerce and the carriage of the mails of the
United States, and had been so recognized and promoted as
such by various acts of Congress; that owing to the exigencies
of its interstate business and the requirements of modern
commerce and passenger transportation, as well as the transportation of freight and the United States mails, the complainant had been, from time to time, required to shorten its
schedule and to maintain and operate certain fast through
trains, intended primarily and chiefly for interstate transportation and interstate commerce; that the two trains, numbered one and three-one being known as the fast mail and
the other as the New Orleans and Chicago Limited-were run
expressly for the purpose of carrying the interstate business
and for the transportation of the United States mail, and that
they were run on special schedules for that purpose, and of
necessity had .to make close connections with other through
trunk lines of railroad doing an interstate business, and in
order to maintain the necessary schedule of time for the
operation of these interstate trains it was impossible and
wholly impracticable to stop at all stations; and, further, that
these trains, being south bound trains, only stop regularly
at junction points and all such points of importance in the
State of Mississippi which are necessary and which justify such.
stops. The bill showed the accommodations which were
afforded the town of Magnolia by the other trains provided by
the company, and which it alleged sufficiently accommodated
the traveling public at that point; that a compliance with the
order of the commission, by stopping the trains named, would
imperil the ability of the complainant to comply with its contract with the United States for the carriage of the mails, and

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COM. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 339
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

would embarrass its interstate traffic, and that it would be impossible, under the present condition of the roadbed and equipment of the complainant, to increase the speed of the trains so as
to allow for the stoppage of the trains as directed by the comrnission; that the complainant protested before the commission
against the issuing of the order, and it alleged that it showed that
it was then furnishing the town of Magnolia all reasonable and
necessary railroad facilities, and that the effect of the order
would be to give that town greater railroad facilities than
were afforded by complainant to any other town in the State
of Mississippi, including the city of Jackson, the capital of the
State, excepting only the town of McComb City, which, being
a relay station on complainant's road, it is necessary for all
trains to stop there to change the engine; and for fuel, water,
etc.; that the effect of the order also would be to give. to the
town five daily trains to the city of New Orleans, running
within short intervals of each other. It'was further alleged
that by the statutory law of the State of Mississippi the complainant was subject to a penalty of fifty dollars for each time
it failed to stop its trains on the order of the commission, and
that the complainant would, therefore, be compelled to comply
with the order or be subject to a multiplicity of suits for
penalties arising from each and every violation of the order,
and that defendants threaten by suit to enforce the order.
It was then averred that the order of the commission was a
direct burden upon interstate commerce, and also a direct and
unnecessary interference with the speedy carriage of the mails
of the United States.
An amendment to the bill was subsequently filed, showing
that Congress had granted a right of way and sections of land
in the State of Illinois to aid in the construction of a railroad
from the southern termination of the Illinois and Michigan
Canal, to a point at or near the junction of the Mississippi and
Ohio Rivers, with branches, etc., which should remain a public
highway for the use of the Government of the United States,
free from toll or other charges upon the transportation of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

property or troops of the United States, and on which mails
of the United States should at all times be transported, and
the Congress had made like grants to the States of Alabama
and Mississippi, respectively, for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of a railroad from the city of Mobile to a point
near the mouth of the Ohio River; and it was also averred that
the State of Illinois had chartered the complainant in 1850,
and ceded to it rights and lands granted to that State by the
act of Congress.

The defendant commission answered and denied the averments in the bill, as already stated.
Mr. Marcellus Green, with whom Mr. William Williams,
Attorney General of the State of Mississippi, Mr. Garner Wynn
Green.and Mr. J. N. Flowers were on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error.
Mr. Edward Mayes, with whom Mr. J. M. Dickinson was
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiCE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision in this case by the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reported in 138 Fed. Rep. 327, in which will be found a stateinent of the material portions of the evidence taken at the
hearing before the trial court. It is unnecessary to repeat it.
The first objection raised by the appellant is, that this suit
is, in substance, one against a State. The commission was
created by the State of Mississippi, under the authority of its
constitution and laws, for the purpose of supervising, and to
some extent controlling, the acts of the railroads operating
within the State. Such a commission is subject to a suit by
a citizen. Th'agan v. Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. . 466; Provut v. Starr, 188 11. S. 537. We do not see
that Arbuckle v. Blackbvrn, 191 U. S. 405, is at all in point.

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COM. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 341
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is also objected that an injunction will not lie from a
United States court to stay proceedings in a state court, because of the provisions of section 720, United States Revised
Statutes. 1 Comp. Stat. 581. The commission is, however,
not a court, and is a mere administrative agency of the State,
as held by the Mississippi court. Telegraph Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 74 Mississippi, 80.
It is urged, however, that proceedings in a state court were
commenced by the presentation of the petition of the citizens
of Magnolia to the railroad commission, and because the cornmission, having made an order to stop the trains, would have
to resort to the proper state court to aid it in the enforcement
of its order, therefore the whole proceeding must be regarded
as in a-state court from the commencement. Whatever may
be the provision of the state statute in regard to the enforcement solely by the state-court of the order of the railroad
commission, the proceeding while before the commission never
thereby became a proceeding in a state court, and the jurisdiction of the Federal court to enjoin the commission from the
enforcement, of its order, because such order was a violation
of the Federal Constitution, was not in the least affected.
The appellants also object that the Circuit Court of Appeals
had no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Circuit Court
in this case, because, as is,stated, the jurisdiction was predicated
upon diversity of citizenship, and also upon the claim that
the state statutes, requiring the stoppage of trains, when
applied to the trains under discussion, violated the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, and, therefore, the
case should have come directly here from the Circuit Court,
and Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618, is cited as authority. The complainant in this case, by a proper pleading,
set up not only the diversity of citizenship, but also a constitutional question, and the complainant had the right to
appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court to the Circ.uit
Court of Appeals, and from its decision in such a case an appeal
or writ of error may be taken to this court. Averican Sugor

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, 281; Huguley
Manufacturing Co. v. Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290, 295.
The case of Field v. Asphalt Co,, supra, does not hold otherwise. It simply holds that where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court attaches on the ground of diverse citizenship, and
also upon a separate and independent constitutional ground,
the party may take a direct appeal to this court, but it does
not hold that the defeated party must do so and that he cannot go to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The main question is, as stated in the court below, whether
the order of the commission is valid with reference to the
Federal Constitution. That depends upon the question
whether it is only an incidental interference with interstate
commerce, based upon a legal exercise of the police powers of
the State for the purpose of securing proper and sufficient
accommodation from the railroad company of railroad facilities
for the residents of the State. The authority of the commission to interfere with a railroad is based on the statutes of
Mississippi. Section 3550 (Chapter 112, Code of Mississippi,
1892, relating to railroads) reads as follows:
"3550. To stop all passenger trains, if, etc., at county seats.Every railroad shall cause each and all of its passenger trains
to stop for passengers at all county seats at which it has a
depot, at the discretion of the railroad commission."
Chapter 134 of the same code relates to the supervision of
common carriers. Section 4302 thereof reads as-follows:
"Necessary depots to be maintained.-Every railroad shall
establish and maintain such depots as shall be reasonably
necessary for the public convenience, and shall 5top such of
the passenger and freight trains at any.depot as the business
and public convenience shall require; and the commission may
cause all passenger trains to permit passengers to get gn and
off in a city at any place other than at the depot, where it is
for the convenience of the travelling public. And it shall be
unlawful for any railroad to abolish or disuse any depot when
once established or to fail to keep up the same and to regularly

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COM. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 343
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stop the trains thereat, without the consent of the commission."
Under these statutes the commission has power (a) to stop,
in its discretion, all passenger trains at all county seats at
which the company has a depot; (b) to stop such of the passenger
and freight trains at any depot as the business and public convenience may require. The order inquestion was made with
regard to a place which is both a county seat and also one
where the railroad has a depot. It is not plain under which
section the commission acted. Its order simply states that the
petition of the citizens of Magnolia is granted as to trains one
and three and denied as to train four. The petition throws no
light upon the subject. We may assume, however, that the
commission acted under all the authority it had from the above
quoted sections of the statute. It is fair to assume that it had
exercised its discretion in causing the trains to stop at a county
seat, and that it did so because in its judgment it was reasonable and necessary for the public convenience. The question is whether, having regard to the facts, the order is
valid.
The matter of the validity of statutes, directing railroad
companies to stop certain of their trains at stati6ns named,
has been before this court several times, and the result of its
holdings is: That a statute of Illinois, which required the Illinois
Central Railroad to stop its fast mail train from Chicago to
New Orleans at Cairo, in the State of Illinois, which was a
county seat, was unconstitutional if the company had made
adequate accommodation by other trains for interstate passengers to and from Cairo. That a statute which required every
railroad corporation to stop all regular passenger trains running wholly within the State at its stations at all county seats
was a reasonable exercise of the police power of the State,
where the statute did not apply to railroad trains enterihg the
State from any other State, or transcontinental trains of any
railroad. A statute relating to railroad companies which provided that a company should cause three of its trains each

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203'U. S.

way, if so many were run daily, Sundays excepted, to stop at
a station containing over 3,000 inhabitants, was valid in the
absence of legislation by Congress on the subject; and also a
state statute which required all regular passenger trains to
stop at county seats was invalid, when applied to an interstate
train, intended only for through passengers from St. Louis to
New York, when it appeared that the railroad company furnished sufficient trains to accommodate all the local through
business in the State, and where such trains stopped at county
seats. These principles have been decided in Illinois Central
R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142; Gladson v. Minnesota, 166
U. S. 427; Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285;
Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514. Upon the
principles decided in these cases, a state railroad commission
has the right, under a state statute, so far as railroads are concerned, to compel a company to stop its trains under the circumstances already referred to, and it may order the stoppage
of such trains if the company does not otherwise furnish proper
and adequate accommodation to a particular locality, and in
such cases the order may embrace a through interstate train
actually running and compel it to stop at a locality named.
In such case, in the absence of congressional legislation covering the subject, there is no'illegal or improper interference with
the interstate commerce right; but if the company has furnished all such proper and reasonable accommodation to the
locality as fairly may be demanded, taking into consideration
the fact, if it be one, that the locality is a county seat, and the
amount and character of the business done, then any'interference with the company (either directly. by statute, or by
a railroad commission acting under authority of a statute) by
causing its interstate trains to stop at a particular locality
in the State, is an improper and illegal interference with the
rights of the railroad company, and a violation of the commerce clause of the Constitution.
In reviewing statutes of this ature, and also orders made
by a state railroad commission, it frequently becomes necessary

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COM. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 345
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to examine the facts upon which they rest and to determine
from such examination whether there has been an unconstitutional exercise of power and an illegal interference by
the State or its commission with the interstate commerce of
the railroad. Whether there has or has not been such an interference is a question of law arising from the facts. In this case
there was no important conflict of evidence on the material
points, and so the Circuit Court of Appeals has stated, and
these facts are clearly and sufficiently set forth in 138 Fed.
Rep., supra. The fact that the company has contracts to
transport the mails of the United States within a time which
requires great speed for the trains carrying them, while not
conclusive, may, still be considered upon'the general question
of the propriety of stopping such trains at certain stations
within the boundaries of a State. The railroad has been
recognized by Congress, and is the recipient of large land
grants, and the carrying of the mails is a most important function of such a road. We think that the railroad company has
fully performed its duty towards the town in the way of furnishing it proper and adequate and reasonable accommodation,
without stopping these interstate trains as ordered, and, therefore, the order of the commission was improper and illegal,
and not merely an incidental interference with the interstate
commerce of the company. The Circuit Court of Appeals has,
in effect, so held, although it did say that the commission and
the Circuit Court had made an order that indicated that the
trains which already stopped at Magnolia were not sufficient
and that the town should have five daily trains going south,
and, therefore, the court said it thought it well to examine
other questions, which it did. A reading of the whole opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals shows that the court did not
concede, in any degree, that the passenger facilities afforded
were inadequate, but that the remedy was to compel the company to run more trains and not stop the ones in question.
The opinion simply suggests that even if the facilities were
inadequate, the appropriate course was to order more trains

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S,

instead of stopping those mentioned. In any event, the question is before us upon uncontradicted evidence as to whether
there were or were not proper facilities, and we hold there
were.
The order cannot be viewed alone in the light of ordering
a stop at one place only, which might require not more than
three minutes, as asserted. It is the question whether these
trains can be stopped at all at any particular station when
proper and adequate facilities are otherwise afforded such
station. If the commission can order such a train to be
stopped at a particular locality under such circumstances, then
it could do so as to other localities, and in that way the usefulness of a through train would be ruined and the train turned
from a through to a local one in Mississippi. The legislature
of a State could not itself make such an order, and it cannot
delegate the power to a commission to do so, in its discretion,
when adequate facilities are otherwise furnished.
The transportation of passengers on interstate trains as
rapidly as can with safety be done is the inexorable demand
of the public who use such trains. Competition between great
trunk lines is fierce and at times bitter. Each line must do
its best even to obtain its fair share of the transportation
between States, both of passengers and freight. A wholly
unnecessary, even though a small, obstacle ought not, in fairness, to be placed in the way of an interstate road, which may
thus be unable to meet the competition of its rivals. We by
no means intend to impair the strength of the previous decisions of this court on the subject, nor to assume that the
interstate transportation, either of passengers or freight, is to
be regarded as overshadowing the rights of the residents of the
State through which the railroad passes to adequate railroad
facilities. Both claims are to be considered, and after the
wants of the residents within a State or locality through which
the road passes have been adequately supplied, regard being
had to all the facts bearing upon the subject, they ought not
to be permitted to demand more, at the cost of the ability of

ALLEN v. RILEY.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the road to successfully compete with its rivals in the transportation of interstate passengers and freight.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit of Appeals was right, and it is

Affirmed.

ALLEN v. RILEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 99.

Submitted November 6, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

While a State may not pass any law prohibiting the sale of patents for inventions or nullifying the laws of Congress regulating their transfer, it has
the power, until Congress legislates on the subject, to make such reasonable
regulations in regard to the transfer of patent rights as will protect its
citizens from fraud; and a requirement in the laws of Kansas that before
sale or barter of patent rights, an authenticated copy of the letters patent
and the authority of the vendor to sell the right patented shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the county within which the rights are sold isnot
an unreasonable regulation.
71 Kansas, 378, affirmed.
FRANCES J. RILEY, the defendant in error, who was plaintiff below, recovered a judgment against plaintiffs in error,
defendants below, for $1,250, in the District Court of Brown
County, in the State of Kansas, which judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, and the defendants below
have brought the case here by writ of error.
The suit was commenced by the filing of a petition by defendant in error, plaintiff below, in a District Court of Kansas,
March 17, 1902, to recover the value of certain lands alleged
to have been transferred by the plaintiff to the defendant
Erasmus W. Allen, in part payment for the transfer to plaintiff of rights for the State of Kentucky under a patent dated
January 30, 1901, for a washing machine. The right to recover is based upon the failure of the defendants to comply
with the Kansas statute, which failure defendants do' not

