514

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement ox the Case.

ILLINOIS

CENTRAL

RAILROAD
KENDREE.

203 U. S.

COMPANY

v.

Mc-

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF CARLISLE COUNTY, STATE
OF KENTUCKY.
No. 13. Submitted December 14, 1905; Restored to docket December 18, 1906; Resubmitted April 16, 1906.-Decided December 17. 1906.

Where plaintiff bases his claim, not on common-law principles, but solely
on violation of an order of a department of the Federal Government
and the certificate of the court below clearly shows that defendant by
answer and on the trial asserted the unconstitutionality of the statute
on which the order was based, and also the illegality of the order, a verdict for the plaintiff necessarily decides that the statute and order were
constitutional and legal, and the defendant has raised a Federal question which was decided against him, and which was not imported into
the record merely by the certificate, and this court has jurisdiction under
ยง 709, Rev. Stat., to review the judgment of the state court.
Without deciding whether the Cattle Contagious Disease act of February 2,
1903, 33 Stat. 1264, is or is not unconstitutional as delegating power
solely vested in Congress to the Secretary of Agriculture, that act confers
no power on such secretary to make any regulations concerning intrastate commerce over which Congress has no control.
As Order of the Secretary of Agriculture, No. 107, purporting to fix a quarantine line under the Cattle Contagious Disease act applies in terms to
all shipments whether interstate or intrastate it is void as an attempt
to regulate intrastate commerce, notwithstanding it is the same line as
that fixed for a similar purpose as to intrastate shipments by the State
through which it passes.
While in a proper case Federal authorities may adopt a quarantine line
adopted by a State, where the secretary makes regulations adopting
it as applying to all commerce whether interstate or intrastate, and
nothing on the face of the order indicates whether he would have made
such an order if limited to interstate commerce, the order is not divisible
and this court cannot declare that it relates solely to interstate commerce but must'declare it void as an entirety.
DEFENDANT in error, plaintiff below, brought an action
against-the railroad company as a common carrier operating
a railroad through Carlisle County, Kentucky, setting forth

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 515
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that the plaintiff received certain cars of infected cattle and
transported them to Arlington, Carlisle County, Kentucky,
where they were unloaded July 13, 1903, and placed in stockpens, where the cattle of the plaintiff, rightfully running loose
upon the commons, could and did come in contact with the
infected cattle and contracted Texas cow-fever.
That the
company knew or could have known, by the exercise of reasonable care, that the cattle had infectious germs when unloaded, having been brought from an infected district, in
conflict with well-known quarantine laws.
A general demurrer was interposed by defendant and overruled.
After an answer of general denial the defendant filed an
amended answer:
"Further answering herein, the defendant says that the
claims of the plaintiff herein asserted are based upon a certain
alleged act of Congress of the United States of America approved February 2, 1903, entitled 'An act to enable the Secretary of Agriculture to more effectually suppress and prevent
spread of contagious and infec.tious. diseases of live stock, and
for other purposes,' which act is published and contained in
volume 32, United States Statutes at Large, beginning at
page 791, and also in a supplement to the United States Compiled Statutes issued in 1903, by the West Publishing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota, beginning at page 372 of said
volume, and said claims are further based upon certain alleged
regulations adopted and promulgated by the Secretary of
Agriculture on March 13, 1903, pursuant to the authority
attempted to be conferred upon him by said alleged act of
Congress above mentioned, approved February 2, 190.3.
"The defendant says that said act of Congress hereinbefore
mentioned, and said regulations adopted by the Secretary of
Agriculture, as hereinbefore stated, are each and all of them
repugnant to and in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States of America, and in excess of the powers of
Congress and of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

stitution of the United States, and they are each and all,
therefore, unconstitutional and void, and under the Constitution of the United States this defendant has the right, privilege
and immunity of being exempt from the assertion or prosecution of any claims against it based upon or arising under such
act of Congress or said regulation, or any- of them, and this
defendant, -as permitted by section 709 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, hereby specially sets up and claims and
pleads in defense of this action the right and privilege and
immunity which is secured to it by the Constitution of the
United States, to be exempt from all suits and prosecutions
and all claims against it based upon or arising under such
unconstitutional and void act of Congress and regulations
adopted or promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture."
A demurrer was filed by the plaintiff to the amended answer.
The plaintiff filed an amended petition, the affirmative
allegations of which were controverted.
This amended petition sets forth:
"The plaintiff, J. U. McKendrce, comes, and by leave of
the court amends his petition, and says that the defendant,
Illinois Central Railroad Company, on the thirteenth day of
June, 1903, received one car of cattle at Grand Junction,
Tennessee, to be transported to the town of Arlington, Kentucky, and on the thirteenth day of said month unloaded them
in the stock pens in said town.
"That the town of Arlington is a small town, located on
defendant's road in this, Carlisle County, and defendant's stockpens arc located adjacent to the public highway and commons,
and that Grand Junction, Tennessee, is located on defendant's
road and south of the quarantine line that was established on
the fourteenth day of March, 1903, by and under the existing
quarantine laws, and that said quarantine line, 'beginning on
the Mississippi River at the southeast corner of the State of
Missouri at the western boundary of Tennessee. [Here follows
a description of the quarantine line through the body of the
State of Tennessee, as set forth in amendment No. 4 to B. A. I.,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 517
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Order.-No. 107.] And that the defendants received said cattle
south of said quarantine line, and transported them north
and out of a quarantine district, and south of the said quarantine line, and transported them north through the State of
Tennessee into this county and State, and unloaded them
in the town of Arlington, and placed them in their stock pens
adjacent to the public highway and commons, where. plaintiff's
cows came in contact with the germ of Texas cow-fever that
said cattle had on them when put in the pens as aforesaid;
that said stock-pens were suffered and permitted to remain
open and exposed to cattle after the removal of said cattle
without disinfecting, or any other effort to protect exposed
stock, and plaintiff's cows contracted Texas cow-fever from
said germs produced from said cattle while in said stock-pens,
to the damage of plaintiff.
"Wherefore he prays as in his original petition."
The court sustained the demurrer to the amended answer
6f the defendant, and upon the issue joined the case was sent
to the jury. A verdict and judgment were rendered-against
the railroad company and in favor of the plaintiff below.
There ivas no dispute as to the transportation of the cattle
from a point south of the quarantine line to a point north
thereof, and the placing of them in pens at Arlington. The
court, over the defendant's objection, submitted the case to
the jury upon the questions of whether the transported cattle
were infected, and, if so, whether the plaintiff's cattle contracted
the disease from them while they were in the pens of the defendant company at Arlington.
. The presiding judge of the Carlisle Circuit Court filed the
following certificate:
"I, R. J. Bugg, sole presiding judge of the Circuit Court
of Carlisle County, in the State of Kentucky, now and at the
time of the trial of the above-entitled cause, do hereby certify:
"That upon the trial of said cause-the defendant, Illinois
Central Railroad Company, relied for its defense upon certain
rights, privileges and imnunities sj)ecially claimed by it under

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

the Constitution of the United States of America, and it insisted upon its said rights, privileges and immunities throughout the trial of said action, and in the assertion of them it
claimed and contended that the various regulations and orders
made and promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture, and
offered in evidence on behalf of the plaintiff herein over the
objections of defendant, were unconstitutional, null and void,
as being in excess of the powers conferred, or which could be
conferred, by act of Congress upon the Secretary of Agriculture
-under the Constitution of the United States of America, and
that the said act of Congress approved February 2, 1903,
under which the Secretary of Agriculture assumed to promul-'
gate said orders and regulations, was itself unconstitutional,
null and void, as being in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States of America and in excess of the powers conferred
by it upon the Congress.
"Said defendant, Illinois Central Railroad Company, further
contended throughout the trial of said cause that no right of
action against it accrued to the plaintiff by reason of any of
the alleged regulations or orders made or promulgated by the
Secretary of Agriculture, and offered in evidence upon the
trial of this action, or by reason of the alleged failure on the
part of the defendant to observe or to comply with any of said
regulations or orders, on the ground that the said regulations
or orders did not assume or attempt to give, and that the said
act of Congress did not assume or attempt to give, to the
plaintiff herein, or to any other in like situation, a remedy
b)y way of civil action against the defendant herein for its
alleged breach of any of said regulations or torders made or
promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture, and throughout;
the trial of said action the defendant, Illinois Central Railroad
Coffipany, specially set up and claimed, even if said act of
Congress and said regulations and orders were valid under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, still it had a
right, privilege or immunity under the said act of Congress or
the said regulations or orders 'from any liability to the plain-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 519
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tiff, J. U. McKendree, in a civil action for damages claimed on
account of its alleged breach of said regulations or orders.
"In allowing the said regulations or orders of the Secretary
of Agriculture to be given in evidence before the jury and in
overruling the motion of defendant to peremptorily instruct
the jury to return a verdict in its favor, the Carlisle Circuit
Court disallowed the various contentions made as above stated
on behalf of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and denied
the claims made by it of the rights, privileges or immunities
specially claimed by it as above stated, and held that the
various claims made by it were not well founded in law under
the Constitution and laws of the United States of America,
and the claims of the plaintiff herein were established and a
judgment in his favor rendered solely by reason of defendant's
alleged breach of said regulations and orders."
The testimony tended to show that the co,ys of the plaintiff
came in contact with cattle transported by the railroad company from a point south of the quarantine line set forth in
the amended petition.
On March 13, 1903, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting under
cover of the act of February 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 791, entitled
"An act to enable the Secretary of Agriculture to more effectually suppress and prevent the spread of contagious and infectious diseases of live stock, and for other purposes," established a quarantine line from west to east throughout the
United States, from California to Maryland, and forbidding
the transportation of cattle from points south of the line to
points north of the line, except in the manner in the said order
specified.
Section 9.of the order provided.: "9. Violation of these
regulations is punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars nor more than, one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not nore than one year, or by both such fine and irprisonment."
By amendment of March 14, 1904, the Secretary of Agriculture -adopted as a quarantine line a line running from west

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

to east in the State of Tennessee, from the south of which the
cattle said to have infected those of the plaintiff were transported and placed in pens in a manner not in conformity with
the order.
Mr. J. M. Dickinson, Mr. Edmund F. Trabue and Mr.
Blewelt Lee, for plaintiff in error:
Congress had no power to delegate to an executive officer,
or any other officer, the right to prescribe an offense against
the United States or a penalty for commission of such offense.
Congress being entrusted by the Constitution with the
legislative power of the United States, must exercise, and not
delegate it; if it could delegate the power, it could not confide it to an executive officer. See Hayburn's case, 2 Dallas,
410; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649, 692; United States v. Eaton; 144 U. S. 677; United States
v. Waters, 133 U. S. 208, 213; Ex parte Kollock, 165 U. S.
526, 538; United States v. Blasingame, 116 Fed. Rep. 654;
Dent v. United States, 71 Pac. Rep. 920; -Adams v. Burdge,
95 Wisconsin, 390; King v. ConcordiaFire Ins. Co., 103 N. W.
Rep. 616.
If Congress hid power to delegate such authority to an
executive officer it must be exercised within the constitutional
limits of congressional power, which in this instance is circumscribed by the limits of the authority of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States.
Assuming the power of Congress to clothe the Secretary of
Agriculture with the legislative power which he assumed to
exercise in the premises, and treating the Secretary's regulation as a law, the action of the Secretary in adopting a quarantine, line, theretofore established by the State of Tennessee,
extending through the State from west to east, and forbidding
transportation from points south to points north of the line,
is invalid because an attempt to regulate purely intrastate
commerce. When a provision of an act of Congress in assuming to regulate commerce covers as well intrastate as interstate

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 521
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

commerce, the act of Congress on the two classes of commerce,
being inseparable, fails in toto.
Where a statute is couched in terms so broad as to exceed
the limits of the power of the legislature to enact it, the court
will not by construction limit the statute to the scope which
might constitutionally be given it by the legislature, but will
hold the statute unconstitutional. United States v. Reese,
92 U. S. 214, 221; Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 98; Allen
v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80, 85; United States v. Harris, 106
U. S. 629, 641; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S.' 270, '305;
.Spreigue v. Thompson, 118 U. S. 90, 94; Baldvin v. Franks,
120 U. S. 678, 685; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540, 565; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127, 140; United
States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 262; United States v. Reese,
92 U. S. 214, 221; Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 98, 99.
A just construction of the acts of Congress above cited under the regulations of the executive officers aforesaid enacted
pursuant to such acts of Congress, if valid at all, are enforceable
only through the imposition of penalties, and confer no right
of private action upon any individual supposed to be injured
by violation of such statutes or regulations. '
No private right of action for damages supposed to have
been sustained by violation of the acts or regulations is conferred by Congress. None, therefore, exists. When Congress intends private action for damages to exist it so providcs, as in the interstate act. The right of action arising out
of an act of Congress is a Federal right, and must be conferred
by Congress or it does not exist. The courts will not imply
for doing an act forbidden by act of Congress a penalty not
therein provided by adjudicating the existence of a private
right of action in favor of someone supposed to be injured by
the act done.
The rule in the Federal courts is that where a statute changing the common law prescribes a penalty, no civil action can
be maintained for doing the acts which give rise to the penalty.
Dollar .
/la1.ii:
v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 238;

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

203 U. S.

Haycraflt v. United States, 22 Wall. 81, 98; Pollard v. Bailey,
20 Wall. 520, 527; Farmers' Nat. Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S.
29, 35; Barnet v. Nat. Bank, 98 U. S. 555; Stephens v. Mononflahela Bank, 111 U. S. 197; Carter v. Carusi, 112 U. S. 478,
-183; McBrown v. Scottish Investment Co., 153 U. S. 318, 325;
Central Stock Yards v. L. & N. R. Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 823, 826.
The Attorney General and The Solicitor General for the
United States, at the suggestion of the court, there being no
brief filed for defendant in error:
Under the decisions of this court the alleged Federal question referred to in the certificate was not raised in the court
below at the proper time and in the proper way. Speer v.
Illinois, 123 U. S. 181; Lawler v. Walker, 14 Hlow. 152; Brooks
v. Missouri, 124 U. S. 394; Leeper. v. Texas, 139 U. S. 467;
Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 439; Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163 U. S. 69; Yazoo and Mississippi Railroad Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 41; Chapin v. Fye, 179 U. S.
127.
Defendant's alleged right, under the act of February 2,
1903, to be exempt from a civil action by an individual for
special damages occasioned him by a violation of the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture made in pursuance thereof,
is frivolous and fictitious, and made solely for the purpose of
obtaining a review by this court of the constitutional questions
involved. Hamblin v. Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531,
533.
A real, not a fictitious, Federal question is essential to the
jurisdiction of this court over the judgments of state courts.
Millingar v. Hartupee, 6 Wall. 258; New Orleans v. New Orleans Water Works Co., 142 U. S.79, 87.
The act of February 2, 1903, so far as it is necessary to be
considered, is constitutional and valid. It gives specific authority to the Secretary of Agriculture to do as he did in
B. A. I. order, No. 107, dated March 13, 1903, namely, designate an area within the United States which he believed to

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 523
203 U. S.

Argument for the United Stat.-;.

be infected, and make. rules and regulations concerning the
transportation of cattle therefrom in interstate or foreign
commerce.
This is no unconstitutional delegation of authority. In
furtherance of the clearly expressed purpose of the act, that
the spread of contagious and infectious diseases of live stock
should be effectually suppressed, Congress authorized the
Secretary of Agriculture to make rules and regulations concerning the transportation in interstate and foreign commerce of live stock coming from places within the United
States which he believed to be infected, and declared that
such rules and regulations should have the force of law. In
necessary effect this was a prohibition upon the transportation
in interstate or foreign commerce of cattle coming from such
infected areas, except in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
The power conferred upon the Secretary to make such rules
anid regulations is only administrative. Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 470, which sustained an act of Congress forbidding,
in broad terms, the importation of tea inferior in purity,
quality, and fitness for consumption to the standards authorized to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
The regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, being confined to the subject of interstate commerce, were constitutional and valid.
It is immaterial whether a quarantine line established by.
Congress or under its authority for the regulation of interstate
commerce runs through the center of a State, so long as inter-'
state transportation is alone intended to be affected. In
order adequately to police and protect interstate commerce
Congress may regulate and control intrastate commerce going
through the channels of interstate commerce. That question
is not, however, presented in this case, since ยง 1 of the act of
Congress only directed the Secretary of Agriculture to make
rules and regulations covering the transportation in interstate
commerce and foreign commerce of live stock coming from

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

infected areas, and the regulations, properly construed, are
also limited to interstate transportation.
In the original order of March 13, 1903, the quarantine line
established by the Secretary was confined to state boundaries,
hence interstate commerce alone was regulated thereby.
By necessary implication the rules and regulations prescribed by the order in question were intended to apply, in
case the quarantine line should be changed so as to run through
a State, only to interstate commerce, as in the case of the
original line. This was the practical interpretation put upon
said order and its amendments by the Department. In the
present case the cattle in question were brought from Grand
Junction, Tennessee, a point below the quarantine line, to
Arlington, in Kentucky, and hence were being transported in
interstate commerce.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The Government objects to the jurisdiction of this court to
entertain the writ of error, upon the ground that no Federal
question is raised within the intent and meaning of section 709
of the Revised Statutes. But we are of opinion that such
questions were raised, and that we ate required upon this
record to review the judgment of the state court.
An inspection of the record shows that the case as made by
the plaintiff below upon the amended petition was to recover
damages for the infection of his cattle, because of coming in
contact with cattle transported by the railroad company from
a point south to a point north of the quarantine line established
by the Secretary of Agriculture in a manner violative of regulations for the transportation and keeping of cattle established
by the Secretary's order.
It was not an action to rec6ver for negligence upon commonlaw principles. The complaint was amhded in such form as
to count upon the supposed right of' action accruing to the

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 525
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff because of the violation of the department's order.
The demurrer of the plaintiff to the answer of the railroad
company, setting forth the unconstitutionality of the law
and the action of the Secretary thereunder, was sustained.
The certificate of the court below is given as to the extent
and character of the Federal rights and immunities claimed
by the defendant, and clearly states that the defendant alleged.
the unconstitutionality of the statute and order, that the order
was in excess of the power given the Secretary, and that the
statute gave no remedy in damages.
The court left the case to the jury under instructions to find
a verdict for the plaintiff if it had been shown thot the plaintiff's cattle were infected by coming in contact with those
transported by the railroad company. It therefore necessarily
decided that the act was constitutional and gave a right
to recover damages for breach of the requirements of the Secretary made in pursuance thereof, and that the Secretary's
order was not in excess of the statutory power given. The
amended complaint, as we have said, counted upon the liability in this form. The traverse of the amended complaint
made the issue. The certificate did not originate the Federal
question. "It is elenientary that the certificate of a court
of last resort may not import a Federal question into a record
where otherwise such a question' does not arise; it is equally
elcmentarY' that such a certificate may serve to elucidate the
deternlination whether a Federal question exists." Rector v.
Ci)lb
Dcposil Bunk, 200 U. S. 405, 412; Marc'in v. Trout, 199
U. S. 212, 223.

This ca.-e comes within the principle decided in Nut v.
Knt, 200 U. S.12, in which the'court said:
"A party who insists that a judgment cannot be rendered
against, him consistently with the statutes of the United States
inay he'fairly held, within the meaning of section 709, to assert
a right and immunity under'such statutes, althotigh the statutes may not give the party himself a personal or affirmative
right that could be enforced by direct suit, against his ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

versary. Such has been the view taken in many cases where
the authority of this court to review the final judginent of the
state courts was involved. Logan County Nat. Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67; Railroads v. Richmond, 15 Wall. 3; Swope
v. Leffingwell, 105 U. S. 3; Anderson v. Cakins, 135 U. S. 483,
486; McNulta v. Lochridge, 141 U. S. 327; Metropolitan Nat.
Bank v. Claggett, 141 U."S. 520; McCormick v. Market Nat.
Bank, 165 U. S. 538, 546; California Nat. Bank v. Kennedy,
167 U. S. 362."
To the same effect is Rector v. City Deposit Bank, 200 U. S.
supra.
Upon this record, read in the light of the certificate, we think
the defendant raised Federal questions as to the constitutionality of the law, and, if constitutional, whether the Secretary's
order was with the power therein conferred, and the right to
a personal action for damages in such manner as to give this
court jurisdiction of them under section 709, Rev. Stat.
The -railroad company, by the proceedings and judgment in
this case, was denied the alleged Federal rights-and immunities
specially set up in the proceedings, in the enforcement of a
statute and departmental orders averred to be beyond the
constitutional power of Congress and the authority of the
Secretary of Agriculture, and in the rendition of a judgment
for damages in an action under the statute and order, in
opposition to the insistence of the defendant that, even if
constitutional; the statute did not confer such power or authorize a judgment for damages.
The constitutional objections urged to the validity of the
statute of February 2, 1903, and the Secretary's order, No. 107,
purporting to be made under authority of the statute, raise
questions of far-reaching importance as to the power of Congress to authorize the head of an executive department of
tne Government to make orders of this character, alleged to
be an attefnpted delegation of the legislative power solely
vested by the Constitution in Congress. These questions, it
is suggested by the counsel for the Government, have become

ILIINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 527
203 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

academic by reason of the passage of the later act of March 3,
1905, to enable the Secretary of Agriculture to establish and
maintain quarantine districts, to .permit and regulate the
movement of cattle and other live stock therefrom, and for
other purposes. 33 Stat. 1264, U. S. Comp. Stat., 1901,
Supplement of 1905, p. 617.
But we are of opinion that it is unnecessary to determine
them in this case. We think the defendant was right in the
contention that, if the act of February 2, 1903, was constitutional, and rightfully conferred the power upon the Secretaryof Agriculture to make orders and regulations concerning interstate commerce, there was no power conferred upon the. Secretary to make regulations concerning intrastate commerce,
over which Congress has no control, and concerning -which
we do not think this act, if it could be otherwise sustained,
intended to confer power upon him. Assuming, then, for this
purpose, that the Secretary was legally authorized to make
orders and regulations concerning interstate commerce, we
find that on March 13, 1903, he adopted, in the Order number 107, the following regulation:
"2. Whenever any State or Territory located above or
below said quarantine line, as above designated, shall duly
establish a different quarantine line, and obtain the necessary
legislation to enforce said last-mentioned line strictly and
completely within the boundaries of said State or Territory,
and said last above-mentioned line and the measures taken
to enforce it are satisfactory to the Secretary of Agriculture,
he may, by a special order, temporarily adopt said State or
Territory line.
"Said adoption will apply only to that portion of said line
specified, and may cease at any time the Secretary may deem
it best for the interests involved, and in no instance shall said
modification exist longer than the period specified in said
special order; and, at the expiration of such time, said quarantine line shall revert, without further order, to the line first
above described.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

"Whenever any State or Territory shall establish a quarantine line, for above purposes, differently located from the
above described line, and shall obtain by legislation the necessary laws to enforce the same completely and strictly, and

shall desire a modification of the Federal quarantine line to
agree with such State or Territory line, the proper authorities
of such State or Territory shall forward to the Secretary of
Agriculture a true map or description of such line and a copj,
of the laws for enforcement of the same, duly authenticated
and certified."
And afterward, on March 14, 1903, the Secretary adopted
the quarantine line agreed to be established by the State of
Tennessee, and said to run about the middle of the State, and
from the south of which the cattle in this case were transported, and provided:
"And whereas said quarantine line, as above set forth, is
satisfactory to this Department, and legislation has been
enacted by the State of Tennessee to enforce said quarantine
line, therefore the above line is adopted for the State of Tennessee by this Department for the period beginning with the
date of this order and ending December 31, 1903, in lieu of
,the quarantine line described in the order of March 13, 1903,.
for said area, unless otherwise ordered."
The terms of Order 107 apply to all cattle transported
from the south of this line to parts of the United States north
thereof. It would, therefore, include cattle transported
within the State of Tennessee from the south of the line as
well as those from outside that State; there is no exception
in the order, and in terms it includes all cattle transported
from the south of the line, whether within or without the
State of Tennessee. It is urged by the Government that it
was not the intention of the Secretary to make provision for
intrastate commerce, as the recital of the order shows an intention to adopt the state line, when the State by its legislature
has passed the necessai-y laws to enforce the same completely
and strictly. But the order in terms applies alike to inter-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL'RAILROAD v. McKENDREE. 529
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

state and intrastate commerce. A party prosecuted for violating this order would be within its terms'if the cattle were
brought from the south of the~line to a point north of the line
within the State of Tennessee. It is true the Secretary recites
that legislation has been passed by the State of Tennessee to
enforce the quarantine line, but he does not limit the order to
interstate commerce coming from the south of the line, and,
as we have said, the order in terms covers it. We do not say
that the state line might not be adopted in a proper case, in
the exercise of Federal authority, if limited in its effect to
interstate commerce coming from below the line, but that is
not the present order, and we must deal with it as we find it.
Nor have we the power to so limit the Secretary's order as
to make it apply bnly to interstate commerce, which it is
urged is all that is here involved. For aught that appears'
upon the face of the order, the Secretary intended it to apply
to all commerce, and whether he would have made such an
order, if Strictly limited to interstate commerce, we have no
means of knowing. The order is in terms single, and indivisible. In United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 221, upon
this subject, this court said:
"We are, therefore. directly called upon to decide whether
a penal statute enacted by Congress, with its limited powers,
which is in general language broad enough to cover wrongful
acts without as well as within the constitutional jurisdiction,
can be limited by judicial construction so as to make it' operate
only on that which Congress may rightfully prohibit and
punish. For this purpose we must take these sections of the
statute as they are. We are not able to reject a part which
is unconstitutional and retain the remainder, because it is not
possible to separate that which is unconstitutional, if there be
any such, from that wlich is not. The proposed effect is not
to be attained by striking out or disregarding words that are
in the section, but by inserting those that are not now there.
Each of the sections must stand as a whole, or fall altogether.
The language is plain. There is no room for construction,
VOL.

ecni-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

unless it be as to the effect of the Constitution.

203 U. S.

The question,

then, to be deterlmined is, whether we can introduce words of
limitation into a penal statute so as to make it specific, when,
as expresscd, it is general only."
And the court decline(d to make such limitation.
An(! in Trade-Murk ces, 100 U. S. 82, 99, the court said:

"If we shoul, in the case before us, undertake to make by
judicial construction, a law which Congress did not make, it
is quite probable we shoul do what, if the matter were now
before that body, it would be unwilling to do, namely, make
a trade-nark law which is only partial in its operation, and
which woul(d complicate the rights which parties would hold,
in sonie instances uniler the act of Congress, and in others under
state law. Cooley, Const. Lim., 178, 179; Common wealth v.
Hitchings, 5 Gray (Mass.), 482."
And see United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 262, 263.
We think these principles apply to the case at bar, and
that this order of the Secretary, undertaking to make a stringent regulation with highly 'penal consequences, is single in
character, and includes commerce wholly within the State,
thereby exceeding any authority which Congress intended to
confer upon him by the act in question, if the same is a valid
enactment. We, therefore, find it unnecessary to pass upon
the other questions which were thought to be involved in the
case at bar.
The judgment of the state court will be
Reversed and the cause remanded to it for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concurs in the result.

