NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. RIGGS.

243

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

NORTHWESTERN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. RIGGS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COUJT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN
No. 34.

DISTRICT

OF

MISSOURI.

Argued October 18, 106.-Decided December 3, 1906.

The provisions of §§ 7890, 7891, Revised Statutes of Missouri, which as
construed by the highest court of that State cut off any defense by a life
insurance company based upon false and fraudulent statements in the
application, unless the matter represented actually contributed to the
death of the insured, andwhich apply alike to domestic and foreign corporations, is not repugnant to. the Fourteenth Amendment, and does not deprive a foreign corporation coming into the State of its liberty or property
without due process of law, nor deny to it the equal protection of the laws.
The liberty referred to in the Fourteenth Amendment is the liberty of
natural, not artificial, persons.
129 Fed. Rep. 207, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Stephen S. Broum, with whom Mr. W. A. Kerr and
Mr. John E. Dolman were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Section 7890, Rev. Stat., Missouri, of 1899, as interpreted
to the jury by the trial court, violates § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447, 454; M., K. &
T. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 639; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 242, 246; Corporations are persons
within the meaning of this amendment. Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, 522; Santa Clara Co. v. So. Pac. R. R. Co., 118
U. S. 394, 396; C. C. & Augusta R. R. Co. v. Gibbs, 142 U. S.
386, 391; Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154;
St. Louis & S. F. Ry. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649, 657; Chicago,
M. & St. P. Ry. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154 U. 8. 362.
The position of the plaintiff in error is not affected b the
fact that it is a foreign insurance company.
The law is not a condition to its doing business in the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

It is in general terms, and hits all insurance companies. If it
is invalid as to some it is invalid as to all. A company lawfully doing business in the State, is no more bound by a general
unconstitutional enactment than a- citizen of the State. Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401, 409.
The right to make contracts is an indispensable incident to
property, without which it cannot be lawfully acquired as
between living persons nor effectively pl'eserved or used.
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 591; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, 391. The privilege of contracting is both a
liberty and a property right. Frorer v. The People, 141 Illinois, 171, 181; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; Yick ll'o
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 559; Shaver v. Pennsylvania Co.,
71 Fed. Rop. 931, 939; Stalte v. Jidow, 129 Missouri, 163, 172.
Due proces5 of law, ,,ml law of the land, which are synonynious, necessarily refer to a precxisting rule of conduct, and
are intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary exercise of the powcrs of the Government, unrestrained by the
established principles of private rights and distributiv,-e justice.
These terms were intended to perpetuate old and well established principles of right and justice by securing them from
abrogation. or violation. Weimner v. Bembury, 30 Michigan,
201; Cooley's Const. Lim. (6th ed.) 443.
Having these principles in mind it becomes a necessary
"conclusion of reason" that a statute that has the effect to
enable one to obtain the property of another by fraud, which
is even more odious than force, 1 Story Eq. Jurisp., 15th ed.,
200, and when the fraud shall have been accomplished, vests
the title in the wrongdoer, is obnoxious-to that provision of
the Constitution which forbids the State to deprive one of his
property without due process of law. Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616; McKinster v. Sager, 72 N. E. Rep. (Ind.) 815;
1 Bouvier, Law Diet., 690; Broom's Leg. Max., 3d ed., 463,
*572; Merritt v. Robinson, 35 Arkansas, 483; Riggs v. Palmer,
115 N. Y. 506, 511.

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

245

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Fraud will vitiate any, even the most solemn transactions;
and' an asserted title to property, founded upon it is utterly
Void. United States v. The Amistad, 15 Pet. 518, 594; Catts
v. Phalen, 2 How. 376, 381; Cochran v. Cummings, 4 Dall.
250.
And this principle has in no case found or deserved a more
uniform application than in case of policies of insurance upon
both life and property. Carrolton Co. v. American Co., 115
Fed. Rep. 77; Livingston v. Insurance Co., 7 Cranch, 506;
Hubbard v. Association, 100 Fed. Rep. 719; Mattison v. Modern Sanaritans, 91 Minnesota, 434; Karls v. Grand Lodge,
119 Wisconsin, 525; Rupert v. Supreme Court U. 0. F. (Minn.),
102 N. W. Rep. 715; Royal Neighbors v. Wallace (Neb.), 102
N. W. Rep. 1020; Spencer v. Pha'nix Ins. Co., 119 Wisconsin,
530; Hanf v. Northwestern Assn., 76 Wisconsin, 450; Ketcham
v. American Assn., 117 Michigan, 521; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v.
Fletcher, 117 U. S. 519.
A contract may be avoided for fraud without reference to
whom the fraud may be directed against-whether it be one
of the parties, a stranger to the agreement, or the public. It
is a matter affecting the public morals and the policy of the
State, and one may not even make a valid contract that he
will stand bound by fraud. Broom's Max. 668; quoted 14
Am. and Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d ed., 157 n.; Bridger v. Goldsmith, 143 N. Y. 424; Hofflin v. Moss, 67 Fed. Rep. 440; Wilcox v. Howell, 44 N. Y. 398; Regan v. Union Mutual Ins. Co.,.
76 N. E. Rep. 217; Columbia Ins. Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Pet. 507.
Mr. Robert A. Hewitt, Jr., and Mr. W. H. Haynes, with
whom Mr. Kendall B. Randolph and Mr. W. M. Fitch were
on the brief, for defendants in error:
A foreign corporation is not a citizen within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the States have a right
to impose whatever conditions they see fit to impose upon
foreign corporations doing business in the State. Cable v.
U. S. Life Ins. Co., 191 U. S. 288; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

203 U. S.

239; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; Waters-Pierce
Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; New York Life Ins.Co. v. Craven,
178 U. S. 389; Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Warren, 181 U. S.
73..
The law, however, applies to all, persons in like circumstances
and conditions, and all insurance companies whether foreign
or domestic. Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S. 325.
The Fourteenth Amendment, it has been held, legitimately
operates to extend to the citizens an4 residents of the States
the same protection against arbitrary state legislation, affecting life, liberty and property, as is afforded by the Fifth.
Federal courts ought not to interfere when what is complained
of amounts to the enforcement of the laws of a State applicable
to all persons in like circumstances and conditions, nor will
they interfere unless there, is some abuse of law amounting to
confiscation of property or a deprivation of personal rights.
French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324; Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Humnes, 115 U. S. 512; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Mackey,
127 U. S. 205; Railway v. Herrick, 127 U. S. 210.
United States courts are controlled as to the interpretation
of state statutes by the decision of the court of last resort of
the State and will form an independent judgment as to their
meaning only when no such construction has been had. Enfield v. Jordan, 119 U. S. 680; Bank y. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S.
461; Hartford Ins. Co. v. Railroad Co., 175 U. S. 91; McCain
v. Des Moines, 174 U. S. 177; Orr v. Guilman, 183 U. S. 283;
Sioux City R. R. Co. v. N. A. Trust Co., 173 U. S. 107.
A foreign insurance company doing business in a State is
governed by the laws thereof, as to the interpretation of its
contract. Those laws become a part of the contract. Fletcher v. New York Life Ins. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 526; New York
Life Ins. Co. v. Fletcher, 117 U. S. 519; John Hancock Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Warren, 181 U. S. 73; Equitable Life Assur.
Society v. Pettus, 140 U. S. 233, 234; New York Life Ins.
Co. v. Cravens. 178 U. S. 389; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172
U. S. 557.

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

247

Opinion of the Court.

This statute has been interpreted by the courts of last resort
of Missouri and given the meaning placed upon it by the trial
judge in his charge to the jury. Schunrmann v. Insurance
Co., 165 Missouri, 641; Kern v. Legion of Honor, 167 Missouri,
471; Jenkins v. Covenant Life In. Co., 171 Missouri, 375;
Smith v. Mut. Ben. Life Ins. Co., 173 Missouri, 329; Herzberg
v. Brotherhood, 110 Missouri App. 328.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action upon two policies of insurance issued by
the Northwestern National Life Insurance Company, a Minnesota corporation doing business in Missouri, upon the life of
Eber B. Roloson; one dated November 21, 1901, the other
May 14, 1902; each for the sum of $5,000, payable to the estate
of the insured within ninety days after the acceptance by the
company of satisfactory evidence of his death while the policy
was in full force.
Each policy contained these provisions: "This policy shall
not be in force until the first premium is paid, and the policy
delivered to and accepted by the insured while in good health.
At, any time when this policy has been two years continuously
in force it will be incontestable, except for fraud and nonpayment of premiums as provided herein, if the age of the insured
has been correctly stated in the application."
The application for insurance was made by reference a part
of the policy, the latter providing that the statements and
answers therein every person accepting or acquiring an interest
in the policy "adopts as his own, arid warrants to be full,
complete and true, and agrees to be material." The application provides: "No obligation shall arise under this application until the usual policy of insurance shall be issued and
delivered to me, I being at that time in good health, and the
first premium paid by me;" also, "I warrant the statements
and answers as written or printed herein, or in part two of
this application, to be full, complete and true, whether written

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

by my own hand or not, and agree that.every such statement
and answer is material to the risk;" also, "That I am not
afflicted with any disease or disorder; nor have I had any
illness, local disease, or personal injury not herein set forth."
Among the questions propounded to the insured and his
answers-embodied in the application-were the following:
"Q. Has any company or association ever postponed or declined to grant insurance on your life? A. No. Q. If so,
for what reason and by what company or association. A.
No. Q. Has any physician ever given an unfavorable opinion upon your life with reference to life insurance or otherwise? A. No. Q. Have you ever had any illness, local
disease, injury, mental or nervous disease or infirmity, or ever
had any disease, weakness, or ailment of the head, throat,
lungs, heart, stomach, intestines, liver, kidneys, bladder, or
any disease or infirmity whatever? A. No. Q. Give name
and address of each physician who has prescribed for or attended you within the past ten years, and for what disease
and ailments? Name, Dr. C. 0. Patton, McFall, Mo. (b).
For what disease or ailment? A. Bilious attack. Q., Has
your husband or wife or any other immediate member of
your family any tuberculous. disease? A. Only sister had as
stated."
It was admitted at the trial that the insured died February 28, 1903, having paid all premiums due upon his policies,
and that proofs of his death were made, such proofs stating
that he died of progressive anTmmia.
The company denied all liability on its policies, upon the
ground that each of the 'answers to the above questions was
untrue, and known to be so by the applicant when he made
them. And at the trial it was offered to be proved (and the
offer was rejected, the company duly excepting) that such
answers were not true, and when made were known to be untrue.
There was a verdict for the plaintiffs, the executors of the
insured, for the amount due on the two policies, namely,

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

249

Opinion of the Court.

$11,050, for which judgment was rendered against the company.
The case was brought here under the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, which authorizes an appeal or writ of error directly
to this court from a Circuit or District Court of the United
States, in any case in which the constitution or law of a State
is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States. 26 Stat. 826, 828.
When the policies in question were issued, it was provided
by the statutes of Missouri, § 7890, that: "No misrepresentation made in obtaining or securing a policy of insurance oil
the life or lives of any person or persons, citizens of this State,
shall be deemed material, or render the policy void, unless the
matter misrepresented shall have actually contributed to the
contingency or event on which the policy is to become due
and payable; and whether it so contributed in any case, shall
be a question for the jury;" and by § 7891, that "in suits
brought upon life policies, heretofore or hereafter issued, no
defense based upon misrepresentation in obtaining or securing
the same shall be valid, unless the defendant shall, at or before
the trial, deposit in court for the benefit of the plaintiffs, the
premiums received on such policies."
These provisions were first enacted in 1874, appearing in
the Revision of 1879 as sees. 5976 and 5977, in the Revision
of 1889 as sees. 5849 and 7891, and in the present revision as
sees. 7890 and 7891.
At the trial in the Circuit Court the insurance company
made several requests for instructions. They embodied these
propositions: That the statute of Missouri, section 7890, was
not al4plicable to this case, and could not be applied to it consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States; that the plaintiff could not recover on
either policy if it appeared that it was not delivered to and
accepted by him while he was in good health; that if the insured, at the time of making his application for a policy of
insuiance, knowingly, falsely and fraudulently, with the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

pose to mislead and deceive the company, misrepresented
in the application any matter concerning his health, life or
physical condition, which would reasonably affect the action
of the company, then the Missouri statute was not applicable
to the case; that if with the intention to deceive and mislead
the company the insured made in his application an untrue
warranty or misrepresentation concerning anything material
to the risk, or if at the time of the application he was in bad
health, and knew such to be his condition, but fraudulently
and falsely, with the intent to deceive, stated that he was then
and had been for twelve months in good health, free from all
ailments, diseases, weaknesses and infirmities, whereby the
company was deceived into issuing the policy, when it would
not otherwise have done so, he could not recover in this action.
The trial court refused each request of the company, and an
exception to its action was duly taken; and it charged the
jury (the company excepting) that the Missouri statute was
applicable to this case and not unconstitutional, and that the
defendant company could not avoid liability on its policy,
by reason of any representations by the insured in his application, unless the jury found that the matters to which such
representations had reference actually contributed to the contingency or event on which the policy, by its terms, was to become
due and payable.
Although the assignments of error are numerous we do not
deem it necessary to notice any questions except those growing out of the application of the Missouri statute to this case.
As to the purpose and scope of that statute we need only
refer to the decisions of the highest court of Missouri whose
province it is to declare its meaning and effect, while it is the
province of this court to adjudge whether the statute, as
interpreted, is in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States. We do not stop to inquire whether, having due regard
to its words, the statute -might not have been differently
construed by the state court, but accept its judgment as
indicating what it is to be taken to mean. In Schuermann v.

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

251

Opinion of the Court.

Union Central Life Ins. Co., 165 Missouri, 641, 653, reference
was made to the history of business of life insurance in Missouri,
the court saying: "While equality of rights and privileges
should be the general aim of all laws, and special restrictions
and. burdens imposed its strict exception, yet laws have ever
been enacted by the State, and sustained, since the adoption
of our present Constitution, as before its adoption, which
were made to operate against certain classes of the community
only, when that class has occupied some peculiar position,
or when it has been clothed with some peculiar opportunities
not enjoyed by the remainder of the community. A§ said
before, life insurance companies in this State, prior to the adoption of sec. 7890, could, and by a practice almost universal,
did, insert in their policies -a stipulation to the effect that any
untrue statement or answer made by the applicant for insurance (regardless of its materiality or regardless of the intent
of the applicant in making same) should avoid the policy,
and too frequently when demands were made upon them for
the obligations- of the policies the companies availed themselves of these harsh provisions without a return by them of
the money which they had obtained from the insured in his
lifetime, and when the untrue statements made had little
if any effect upon the risk undertaken by the insurer. This
doctrine of warranties, in the extent to which it had grown
and was applied, was something peculiar to insurance companies, and was therefore thought the subject of special legislation, in a law which properly undertook to affect insurance
companies alone in that particular. By a long and hurtful
practice of a given policy peculiarly their own, insurance
companies had stamped themselves as a class, to which hlone
legislation might properly address itself, in that regard."
In -the subsequent case of Kern v.. Legion oj Honor, 167
Missouri, 471, 487, the court, referring to the statute, said
that it "was enacted to correct the evil that had grown up, of
permitting insurance companies to make every statement or
answer a warranty, and if any one, however trivial or however

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

foreign to the risk or loss, turned out to be untrue, to avoid
the policy without refunding the benefits the company had
received. The statute draws no distinction between innocent
and fraudulent misrepresentations, and the courts have no
right to draw any such distinction. The test applied by the
statute is whether 'the matter misrepresented shall have
actually contributed to the contingency or event on wich
the policy is to become due and payable,' and the power to
determine that. question is vested by the statute in the jury,
and not in the court." The case of Christian v. Ins. Co., 143
Missouri, 460, being called to the attention of the state court,
it further said: "In that case no distinction was drawn, or
intended to be permitted, between innocent and wilfully fraudulent misrepresentations. The purpose was to give full force
and effect to the statute, and to hold that no misrepresentation,
whether innocent or fraudulent, when based upon a warranty
of truth by the terms of the policy or not, shall be a defense
'unless the matter misrepresented shall have actually contributed to the contingency or event on which the policy is to become due and payable.' " See also Jenkins v. Covenant Mut.
Life Ins. Co., 171 Missouri, 375, 383.
We take it, then, that the statute, if enforced, cuts off any
defense by a life insurance company, based upon false and'
fraudulent statements in the application, unless the matter
misrepresented actually contributed to the death of the insured.
Is the statute, therefore, to be. held repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment? Does it, in such case, deprive the insurance company of its "liberty" or property without due process
of law, or deny to it the equal protection of the laws? Although
the statute in some degree restricts the company's power of
contracting and is so worded that the beneficiaries of its policy
may sometimes reap the fruits of fraud practiced upon it by'
the insured, we cannot, for that reason, hold that the State
may not, so far as the Constitution of the United States is
concerned, regulate the business of life insurance to the extent
indicated. It is true that this court has said that the liberty

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

253

Opinion of the Court.

guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment against deprivation otherwise than by due process of law embraces the right
to pursue a lawful calling and enter into all contracts proper,
necessary and essential to the carrying out of the purposes
of such calling. Aligeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.578, 5S9. it
is true, also, that a corporation of one State, doing business in
another State, under such circumstances as to be directly
subject to its process at the instance of suitors, may invoke
the protection of that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
which declares that no State shall "deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." Blake V.
McClung, 172 U. S.239, 260, 261. But it is equally the doctrine of this court that the* power, whether called police,
governmental or legislative, exists in. each State, by appropriate legislation, not forbidden by its own constitution or by
the Constitution of the United States, to determine for its
people all questions or matters relating to its purely domestic
or internal affairs, and, "to regulate the relative rights and
duties of all persons and-corporations within its jurisdiction,
and, therefore, to provide for the public convenience and the
public good." Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway
v. Ohio, 173 U. S.285, 297, and authoritie s there cited.
We are informed by the, decisions of the Supreme Court of
Missouri that life insurance coiripanies doing business in that
State often secured contracts under which they could defeat
all recovery upon a policy, and retain all premiums paid by
the insured, if -it appeared in proof that the application for
insurance contained an inaccurate or untrue statement, however innocently made, as to matters having no real or substantial connection whatever with the death of the insured, and
which were in no sense material to the risk. This was deemed
an evil practice to be remedied by legislation. Of course, the
State, if it had seen proper, might have excepted from the
operation of the statute cases in which the insured, by his
representations when obtaining a policy, perpetrated a fraud
upon the company, or made untrue statements in his applica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

tion as to matters material to the risk. But that remedy
was deemed inadequate to prevent wrong and injustice. The
State decided to go to the root of the evil, and therefore in
substance, it established, as a rule of conduct for all life insurance companies, domestic and foreign, doing business in
the State, that representations, of whatever'nature, made to
the company by the insured should not defeat recovery upon
a policy unless such representations, in the judgment of a
jury, actually contributed to the contingency or event on which
it was to become due and payable. Surely the State could
make such a regulation in relation to its own corporations;
for a corporation cannot exert any power, nor make any contract, forbidden by the law of its being. Such a restriction
as that founded in: the Missouri statute, if embodied in the
original charter of a life insurance corporation, would, of
course, be binding upon it in the State granting such charter,
and could not be disregarded. If, however, no such restriction was imposed by its charter, it could yet be.imposed by
subsequent- legislation, unless the State had precluded itself
from so doing by some contract (if a binding one could be made)
which, as to its obligation, was protected by the Federal
Constitution. The business of life insurance is of such a
peculiar character, affects so many people, and is so intimately
connected with the common good, that the State creating the
insurance corporations and giving them authority to engage
in that business may, without transcending the limits of legislative power, regulate their affairs, so far, at least, as to prevent them from committing wrong or injustice in the exercise
of their corporate functions. The State may well say to its
own corporate creatures engaged in the business of life insurance that they shall not refuse to pay what they agreed to
pay simply because of some representation made by-the insured which did not actually contribute to the contingency or
event on which the agreement to pay depended. If a life
insurance corporation does not approve such a restriction upon
the conduct of its affairs it is its privilege to cease doing busi-

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

255

Opinion of the Court.

ness. Now, if the statute in question is not invalid as to life
insurance corporations of Missouri, it is not perceived that
the State may not make its provisions applicable to corporations of other States doing business in its territory with its
sanction or under its l'cense. That Missouri could forbid
life insurance companies of other States from doing any business whatever within its limits, except upon the terms prescribed by the statute in question, cannot be doubted in view
of the decisions 'of this court. If it could go that far, why
may it not declare, as it has in effect done, by this statute,
that its provisions shall apply to foreign life insurance companies doing business in Missouri under its license? It would,
indeed, be extraordinary if the State could compel its own
life insurance companies to respect this statute, but could not
enforce its provisions against a foreign corporation doing
business within its limits, with its consent, express or implied especially against one which, as is the case here, came into the
State for purposes of business after such statutory provisions
were enacted. As the present statute is applicable alike to
all life insurance companies doing business in Missouri, after
its enactment, there is no reason for saying that it denies the
equal protection of the laws. Equally without foundation
is the contention that the statute, if enforced, will b6 inconsistent with the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. The liberty referred to in that Amendment is the
liberty of natural, not artificial persons. Nor in any true,
constitutional sense does the Missouri statute deprive life
insurance companies doing business in that State of a right
'of property. This is too plain for discussion.
What has been said disposes of the only questions we need
to determine, and the judgment isAffirmed.

