ANDREWS v. EASTERN OREGON LAND CO.

127

Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

ANDREWS v. EASTERN

OREGON LAND COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE' STATE OF OREGON.
No. 48.

Argued October

-

19, 1906.-Decided November 12; 1906..

Although the record of a case here on writ of error may fail to'show how

the facts on which the highest court bf a State set aside the findings
of the trial court were brought to its attention, this court cannot ignore

the recitals of what it considered; if it appears that testimony was in

fact taken.
When the conclusions of the highest court of a State reversing the trial
court are in harmony witl the general rule as to the effect to be given
to a patent of the United States,. this court is fnot justified in setting
the judgment aside upon'a prdsumption of what might have been the
testimony upon which the trial court made its findings.
45 Oregon, 203, affirmed. *

THE facts are Atated in the opinion.
Mr. S. M. Stockslager, with .whom Mr. George C. Heard was

on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr.-Alexander Britton was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUS'TICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case brings before us a judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Oregon.. 45 Oregon, 203. It involves the title

to lot 3 and the east I 6f the southwest J of section 7, township
1 north, range 17 east of the Willamette meridian. The
plaintiff in error claims title as a preemptor; the defendant
in error under a patent from the United States. The land

was patented as a part of the grant made by act .I-Congress
approved February 25, 1867, 14 Stat. 409, of three alternate
sections on eaah side of the road, to the Dalles Military Wagon

Road Company, a full account of which is to be found in
Wilcox v. Eastern' Oregon Land Company, 176 U, S. 51.

If

*the patent was valid the title to the land was in the defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

ant, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon was
correct. There being no conflicting land grant the question
whether the land was within the territorial limits of that to
the road company is apparently one of fact only, and the
decision of the Land Department on matters of fact is ordinarily conclusive in the courts.
The difficulty in the case arises from the condition of the
record. This shows that by the trial court findings of fact
and conclusions of law were made, one of the findings being
that the land is situated entirely outside the limits of the
grant and more than three miles from the road as actually
surveyed, platted and constructed by the company, and certified by the Governor of the State to the Land Department.
No testimony is preserved, although it appears that the case
was referred to a referee, who took and reported the testimony. The Supreme Court reversed the judgment of the
trial court, and, while making no special findings, in its
opinion discusses certain matters of evidence, and, after
stating that the testimony tends to show that the land was in
fact within the limits of the grant, rests its conclusions upon
the general proposition that there is ho competent proof to
impeach the records of the Land Department or overthrow
the presumption of validity which attends a patent of the
United States. The certificate of the clerk of the Supreme
Court states that the transcript is the full and complete record filed in that court and upon which the appeal was heard;
while the certificate of the clerk of the trial court to the record sent to the Supreme Court is "that the same is a full, true
and correct copy of the complaint, amended answer, demurrer to the amended answer, reply, findings of fact and conclusions of law, undertaking on appeal, notice of appeal filed
in my office in the above entitled cause, and of all journal
entries made in said cause and of the whole thereof."
From this it is contended that the Supreme Court, without
any evidence before it, set aside the findings of fact made by
the trial court. But it is the judgment of the Supreme Court

BURT v. SMITH.
203 U. R.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

whose validity we are to consider, and while it made no special findings, its statement of what was before it for consideration and its conclusions therefrom are sufficient to sustain its judgment. True the record fails to show how the
facts were brought to its knowledge, but it is the highest court
of the State, and we may not ignore its recital of what it considered, especially as it appears that testimony was in fact
taken. Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188. And when its conclusions are in harmony with the general rule of the effect to
be given to a patent of the United States we are not justified
in setting aside the judgment upon any presumption of what
might have been the testimony upon which the trial court
made its findings.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Oregon is
Affirmed.

BURT v.SMITH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 67. Argued October 29, 1906.-Decided. November 12, 1906.
A mistaken view of the law may constitute probable cause in some instances-probable cause does mean sufficient cause-so held as to a suit
for infringement of registered trade-mark.
Although the opinion of the highest court of a State may be resorted to
for the purpose of showing that the court actually dealt vith a Federal question presented by the record, or that a right asserted in general terms was maintained and dealt with on Federal groulids, where
the record discloses no Federal question until the assignment of errors
in this court, it comes too late and the writ will be dismissed.
Writ of error to review 181 N. Y. 1, dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Norris Morey, with whom Mr. Joseph H. Morey was on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
Neither the order nor the opinion of the Circuit Court of
VOL.

ccI1-9

