OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

The petition was denied. Whether it could have been
granted in view of the terms and spirit of the Bankruptcy
Act, or the effect, if it had been, we are not called upon to
discuss.
Appeal dismissed.

GOUDY v. MEATH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 53.

Submitted October 23, 1006.-Decided November 19, 1906.

Where a State by statute makes the allotted lands of Indians alienable
the same as lands of citizens, and Congress by statute postpones the
operation of the state statute for a definite period, when that period
has expired all restriction upon alienation both voluntary and involuntary by operation of law, such as taxation and levy and sale thereunder. ccnscs.
Although Congress may by statute give Indians a right of voluntary alienation of allotted lands but exempt such lands from levy, sale and forfeiture, such an exemption cannot exist by implication but must be clearly
manifested.
By the act of February 8, 1887, allottee Indians became citizens and their
property, unless clearly exempted by statute, is subject to taxation
in the same manner as that of other citizens.
38 Washington, 126, affirmed.

THIS case is before us on error to the Supreme Court of
Washington. 38 Washington, 126. It was submitted to the
state courts on an agreed statement of facts and involves the
question of the liability of the land of the plaintiff, now plaintiff in error, to taxation for the year 1904. He is a Puyallup
Indian, and claims exemption under and by virtue of the
treaty of December 26. 1854. 10 Stat. 1132. That treaty
provided for an allotment of land in severalty to such members of the tribe as were willing to avail themselves of the
privilege, on the same terms and subject to the same regulatior.s as were named in the treaty with the Omahas.

GOUDY v. MEATH.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The latter treaty, March 16, 1854, 10 Stat. 1043, authorized
the President to issue a patent for any allotted land, "conditioned that the tract shall not be aliened, or leased for a
longer term than two years; and shall be exempt from levy,
sale or forfeiture, which conditions shall continue in force
until the state constitution, embracing such lands within its
boundaries, shall have been formed, and the legislature of
the State shall remove the restrictions.

.

.

No state

legislature shall remove the restrictions herein provided for,
without the consent of Congress." Under this treaty, on
January 30, 1886, a patent to the plaintiff was issued. One
of the facts agreed upon is the following:
"That since the issuance of said patent, and by an act of
Congress passed and -approved on the eighth day of February,
1887, plaintiff became and now is a citizen of the United
States, and entitled to all the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizens. Said act is found in the United States
&atu:'s at Large, vol. 24, chapter 119, at page 388."
In 1889, Washington was admitted as a State. Its first
legislature enacted:
"SECTION. 1. That the said Indians who now hold, or who
may hereafter hold, any of the lands of any reservation, in
severalty, located in this State, by virtue of treaties made between them and the United States, shall have power to lease,
incumber, grant and alien the same in like manner and with
like effect as any other person may do under the laws of the
United States and of this State, and all restrictions in reference thereto are hereby removed." Laws 1889-90, p. 362.
In 1893, Congress passed an act, 27 Stat. 612, 633, authorizing the appointment of a commission with power to superintend the sale of the allotted lands, with this proviso:
"That the Indian allottees shall not have power of alienation of the allotted lands not selected for sale by said commission for a period of ten years from the date of the passage
of this act."
Construing these several acts, the Secretary of the Interior,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

on February 14, 1903, wrote to the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, summing up his conclusions in these words:
"I am of the *opinion that the requirements of the treaties
with res)ect to these lands have been fully met, and that the
provisions of the act of the legislature of the State of Washington of March 22,'1890, and the TnIian appropriation act
of March 3, 1893, referred to above, together operate to remove all restrictions upon the alienation or sale thereof by
the allottees. I have therefore to direct that the Puyallup
commissioner be instructed to continue the selection and
appraisement of such portions of the Puyallup allotted lands,
but only with the consent of the Indians, as provided in the act
of March 3, 1893-until the expiration of the ten-year period
mentione(l, to wit, March 3, 1903, after which (late, in my
judgment, the Puyallup Indian allottees will ' have power to
lease, incum er, grant, and alien the same in like manner
and like effect as any other person may (IOun(ler the laws of
the United Slates, an(l of' the State of Washington.
"You are further directed to instruct the commiissioner to
take the necessary steps to complete and close up the business
of his office as soon as praciicable after March 3, next."
Mr. IWalter Christian for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles 0. Ba/es and Mr. W'alter M. Harvey for defendant ii error.
it. .I-sricim
lt"Wmm after making the foregoing statemeit, delivereI the opinion of the com'.
In the brief filed by the plaintiff in error no question is
nmadc of his right to sell and convey the land. The Supreme
Court of the State, in its opinion, says:, "It is conceded that
the Indians may now sell their lands voluntarily and convey a
title in fee, and that thereupon the lands so sold are subject
to taxation in the hands of parties not Indians." But the
contention is that although he has the power of voluntary'sale

GOUDY v. MEATH.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and conveyance, yet until he has exercised that power the
land is not subject to taxation or forced sale. His argument
rests mainly upon the contention that there is no express
repeal of the exemption, provided in the original treaty, "from
levy, sale or forfeiture." That Congress may grant the power
of voluntary sale, while withholding the land from taxation
or forced alienation, may be oonceded. For illustration, see
treaty of January 31, 1855, with the Wyandotts, 10 Stat.
1159, 1161. But while Congress may make such provision,
its intent to do so should be clearly manifested, for the purpose
of the restriction upon voluntary alienation is protection of
the Indian from the cunning and rapacity of his white
neighbors, and it would seem strange to withdraw this protection and -permit the Indian to dispose of his lands as he
pleases, while at the same time releasing it from taxation.
In other words, that the officers of a State enforcing its laws
cannot be trusted to do justice, although each and every,
individual acting for himself may be so trusted.
But further, by the act of February 8, 1887, plaintiff became
and is a citizen of the United States. That act, in addition
to the grant of citizenship, provided that "Indians to whom
.allotments have been made shall have the benefit of and be
subject to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the State or
Territory in which they may. reside." Matter of Hefi, 197
U. S. 488.
Among the laws'to which the plaintiff as a citizen became
subject were those in respect to taxation. His property, unless exempt, became subject to taxation in the same manner
as property belonging to other citizens, and the rule of exemption for him must be the same as for other citizens-that is,
that no exemption exists by implication but must be clearly
manifested. No exemption is clearly shown by the legislation
in respect to these Indian lands. The original .treaty provided that they should be exempt fromn levy, sale or forfei-

ture until the legislature of the State should, with the consent of Congress, remove the restriction. This. of course,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

meant involuntary as well as voluntary alienation. When
the State was admitted and its constitution formed, its legislature granted the power of alienation "in like manner and
with like effe& as any other person may do under the laws
of the United States andof this State, and all restrictions in
reference thereto are hereby removed." What restrictions?
Evidently those upon alienation. The Indian may not only
voluntarily convey his land (authority to (1o that is provided
by the use of the word "grant"), but he may also permit its
alienation by any action or omission which, in due course of
law results in forced sale. Congress postponed the operation
of this statute for ten years. When the ten years expired
(and they had expired before this tax was attempted to be
levied) all restriction upon alienation ceased. It requires a
technical and narrow construction to hold that involuntary
alienation continues to be forbidden while the power of voluntary alienation is granted; and it is disregarding the act
of Congress to hold that the Indian; having property, is not
subject to taxation when he is subject to all the laws, civil
and criminal, of the State.
We see no error in the ruling of the Supreme Court of the
State of Washington, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

