.136

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

203 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. RIGGS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 167.

Argued October 23, 1906.-Decided November 12, 1906.

Under par. 313, as construed in connection with pars. 306, 307 of the Tariff
Act of July 24, 1897, figured cotton cloth is subject not'only to the specific
duties imposed by pari. 313, but also to the ad valorem duty imposed

by pars. 306, 307.
The evident purpose of these paragraphs precludes the application of the
rule that any doubt as to the construction of a tariff statute should be
resolved in favor of the importer.

.136 Fed. Rep. 583, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds, for the United
States:
The history of tariff legislation and the connection in which
it appears make the meaning of par. 313 sufficiently clear.
Act 1865, 13 Stat. 208; act 1883, 22 Stat. 505, 506; act 1890,
26 Stat. 591; pars. 344, 348; act 1894, 28 Stat. 527, pars. 252257; Hedden v. Robertson, 151 U. S. 520, 526; United States
v. Albert, 60 Fed. Rep. 1012; Claflin v. United States, 109
Fed. Rep.'562; S. C., 114 Fed. Rep. 257.
The 'amount and character of the duty imposed, is made
sufficiently manifest by the language of par.. 313; the use, of
the word "value" Was unnecessary.
The protective character of tariff laws and the policy of
Congress to impose higher duties upon finer articles and to
increase, the same as additional processes enter into their
manufacture, have been frequently recognized. Arnold v.
United States, 147 U. S. 497; Tidewater Oil Co. v. United States,
171 U. S. 219; Bensusan v. Murphy, 10 Blatchf. 580; Fed.'
Cas., 1329, distinguished.
The construction of par. 313 advocated by respondents

UNITED STATES v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

would subject high-priced figured cottons to less duty than
cheaper plain goods-an absurd result which should ,be
avoided.
A result so preposterous plainly indicates the unsoundness
of the construction which would occasion it. Bate R'f'g Co.
v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 37; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U.' S.
41, 77.
The rule that duties should not be imposed upon vague or
doubtful interpretations is inapplicable.
The intention of Congress being clear, any ambiguity of
language should have been resolved in harmony therewith.
Little doubts do not justify conclusions nullifying the manifest.
purpose of the lawmakers. The intent of the lawmaker is
the law. Jones v. Guaranty and Indemnity Co., 101 U. S. 626.
Where the intent is plain the law should be construed in
harmony therewith. Every doubt or dispute is not to be
resolved in favor of the importer. Newman v. Arthur, 109
U. S. 132; Hedden v. Robertson, 151 U. S. 520; United States v.
Wetherell, 65 Fed. Rep. 987, 990.
Mr. W. Wickham Smith, with whom Mr. John K. Maxwell
was on the brief, for respondent:
Where the language of a statute is plain and unambiguous, it is 'the duty of the court to enforce it according to' the
obvious meaning of the words, without attempting to change
it by adopting a different construction based upon some supposed policy of Congress in regard to the subject of legislation.
Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S.1.
If there be any doubt at all as to the construction of the
statute (and we submit there is not), that doubt cannot be
resolved in favor of the imposition of a higher tax. United
States v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 369; Rice v. United-States, 53
Fed. Rep. 910; Hartranftv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S.609; Matheson v. United States, 71 Fed. Rep. 394; United States v. Davis,
54 Fed. Rep. 147; Adams v. Bancroft, 3Sum. 384; McCoy v.
Hedde, 38 Fed. 1Iep. 89.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

203 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here on a certiorari granted to bring up a
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the decision
of the Circuit Court and 'cversing that of a Board of United
States General Appraisers. The respondents imported "cotton cloth in which other than the ordinary warp and filling
threads have been introduced in the process of weaving to
form a figure," to quote the words of paragraph 313 of the
Tariff Act of July 24, 1897, c. 11, 30 Stat. 175, 178. The Collector and Board of General Appraisers decided this cloth
was liable to a duty of two cents per square yard under that
paragraph and also, the different items being valued at over
eleven, twelve and twelve and a half cents per square yard,
to the ad valorem tax imposed by paragraphs 306 and 307
upon similar plain cloth above those values. The Circuit
Court of Appeals, while admitting its belief that Congress
intended to place an extra duty on figured cloth, felt bound
to decide, upon the language of paragraph 313, that the tax
placed by it upon figured cloth was to be added only to specific
taxes imposed on less valuable cloths by paragraphs 306 and
307.
To explain: By paragraph 306 cotton cloth not bleached,
etc., exceeding one hundred and not exceeding one hundred
and fifty threads to the square inch, etc., and not exceeding
four square yards to the pound, pays one and a half cents
per square yard, with an increasing rate as the number of
yards to the pound increases. But a proviso substitutes for
the foregoing a different set of duties on all cotton cloth with
the same count of threads, not bleached, etc., if valued above
a certain sum, for instance, if over nine cents per square yard,
thirty per centum ad valorem, if over eleven, thirty-five, etc.
Paragraph 307 is similar in form for cloths with between one
hundred and fifty and two hundred threads.
By paragraph 313 figured cloth "shall pay, in addition to
the duty herein provided for other cotton cloth of the same

UNITED STATES v. RIGGS.
203 U. S.

,Opinion of the Court.

description, or condition, weight, and count of thread to the
square inch, one cent per square yard if valued at not more
than seven cents per square yard, and two cents Per s4uare
yard if valued at more than seven cents per square yard."
In the judgment appealed from it is assumed that the cloth
in 'question, as figured cloth, is liable to this duty, and that,
in deciding what such cloth shall pay, the collector must
start from this paragraph. This paragraph must decide to
what other duty the one here levied shall be added. If it
stopped with the words "other cotton cloth of he same
description, or condition," no doubt the tax might be added
to an ad valorem tax when that would be required by paragraph 306 or 307. Those words might be taken to indicate
cloth of similar value in cases within the provisos as well as
goods of similar weight taxed under the first part of paragraphs. 306 and 307. But as general words they would include weight as readily as value; and the mention of weight
and count shows that they are used in a narrower sense, for
instance, to indicate quality, as bleached or otherwise. Hence
the criteria for the duty to which that under 313 is to be
added all point to a specific duty alone; and these criteria
therefore must determine for figured cloths the duty to which
they are liable under paragraphs 306 and 307. You-must
not alter words in the interest of the imagined intent, and
the importers are entitled to the benefit of even a doubt.
In spite of this reasoning, no one, we take it, has any serious doubt that paragraph 313 was not intended, to affect
or cut down duties already imposed in clear though general
terms. The provisos of the earlier paragraphs are made
applicable to "all cotton cloths" of. the sorts described, in So
many words. The qualified reading is due to scruples that
hardly would occur, except to the professional mind.. As
against those scruples, it is to be observed, in the first place,
that the clauses to which we have referred and -their neighbors, to go no further into the general scheme of the Tariff
Act, consistently raise the amount of the tax on cotton cloth

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

as the cloth becomes more expensive, and that it would reverse the tendency and go counter to the intent expressed
everywhere else, if in this instance the more valuable goods
were withdrawn from the general tax imposed upon their
class. It is said that, in some cases, the construction contended
for even would make the duty on figured cotton of a high
price less than that on cheap cloth.
In the next place, if the language of paragraph 313 is not
broad enough to apply to both classes of duty previously
imposed, the easier contention would seem to be that the
additional duty created by it was put only upon the first class,
that of the cheaper goods taxed by weight, rather than that
it cut down what already had been made clear. Such a
notion would be disposed of by the fact that paragraph 313
applies to all cotton cloth and to all values, higher as well as
lower than seven cents, and by other considerations not necessary to state. But if anything had to yield it would be
-paragraph 313.
The artificial doubt is raised by assuming that the collector
must start with the first part of paragraph 313 and find out
what his assessments are to be from that alone. That is a
mistake. He has before him the whole act. He has been
told in the earlier paragraphs in unmistakable language that
all cotton cloth with this number of threads and above a certain value must pay thirty or thirty-five cents ad valorem.
Then comes this paragraph, which on its face purports to
make an addition to some tax .which it assumes to have been
imposed by the earlier ones. It is intended to hit all cotton
cloths and all values, and it is intended to be added to a tax
already imposed. But this would not be the case if the presence of a figure in the cloth changed the rate established by
the preceding scheme.
. The truth is, as pointed out in the argument for the Government, that the element of value is woven through the
whole tissue of the act. The collector does not know what
duty to assess, even under 313, without a valuation. It can-

CONBOY v. FIRST NAT. BK. OF JERSEY CITY. 141
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

not be found out what "the duty herein provided" is, or
whether it is specific or ad valorem, without making a valuation under the previous paragraphs, just as if 313 did not exist. Paragraphs 306 and 307 tell the collector to make it on
all cotton and to assess a duty on all cotton above a certain
value after the valuation is made. Paragraph 313 assumes

the duty imposed by 306 and 307 to have br'., ."kCsfed. As
inmanifest
Ynm
against these plain directions, coupled with
tent of the act, the failure to mention value aiong with weight

raises no serious doubt in our minds.
Decree reversed.

CONBOY v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF JERSEY CITY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 54.

Argued October 23, 1906.-Decided November 19, 1908.

Congress having provided by section 25b of the Bankrupt-y Act that appeals may be baq under such rules and within such time as may be prescribed by this court, the thirty day limitations in General Order in
Bankruptcy XXXVI has the same effect as if written in the statute
and the allowance of an appeal taken thereafter on certificate by a justice
of this court from the Circuit Court of Appeals cannot operate as an adjudication that it is taken in time.
The time within which an appeal may be taken under section 25b of the
Bankruptcy Act and General' Order in Bankruptcy XXXVI runs from
the entry of the original judgment or decree and when expired is not
revived by a petition for rehearing. Appeals do not lie from orders
denying petitions for' rehearing which are addressed to the discretion
of the court to afford it an opportunity to correct its own errors.
The time for appeal cannot after it has expired be extended by an application for rehearing or arrested by an order of the court, even though
the application be made during the same term at which judgment was
entered.
Appeal from 135 Fed. Rep. 77, dismissed.

THz facts axe stated in the opinion.

