NEW YORK FOUNDLING HOSPITAL v. GATTI. 429
Argument for Appellant.

203 U. S.

of Cuba to convey on behalf of the King. Therefore it is our
opinion that the claim is barred by the decree, even -if it could
escape from the other objections upon which we have found it
unnecessary to pass.
Decree reversed.

NEW YORK FOUNDLING HOSPITAL v. GATTI.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 21.

Argued April 26, 1906.-1Decided December 3, 1906.

A habeas corpus proceeding involving the care and custody of a child of
tender years is not decided on the legal rights of the petitioner, but upon
the court's view, exercising its jurisdiction as parens patrit, of the best
interest and welfare of the child; such a proceeding does not involve
,the question, of personal freedom, and an appeal will not lie to this
court, under § 1909, Rev. Stat., from the order of the Supreme Court
of a Territory awarding the custody of a child of three years of age to
one of several rival claimants therefor.
Appeal from 79 Pac. Rep. 231, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. D. Cady Herrick, with whom Mr. Charles E. Miller and
Mr. William C. Trull were on the brief, for appellant:
The order is appealable. By § 1909, Rev. Stat., writs of
error and appeal are allowed to the Supreme Court of the
United States, upon writs of habeas corpus involving the question of personal freedom. Gonzales v. Cunningham, 164 U. S.
612; Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82.
This right was not taken away by the Circuit Court of Appeals act, 26 Stat. 830, § 15; Shute v. Keyser, 149 U. S. 49;
Folsom v. United States, 160 U. S. 121.
The State of New York, in its capacity of paren patrim,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

203 U. S.

has an absolute right td the custody of the child. Coke, Litt.,
74 B, § 103; Dwight on Law of Persons, 242; Cary v. Bertie,
2 Vernon, 333, 342; Ryre v. Shaftsbury, 2 P. Wins. 103, 119;
Butler v. Freeman, Ambler's Rep. 301.
The right of a parent to the custody of a child is superior
to the right which is exercised by a guardian. The parent has
what is known as the natural right of guardianship, which
means that the law of the sovereign State has recognized the
propriety of permitting a parent to control his child to the
extent of establishing, as a uniform doctrine governing the
exercise of the sovereign right, that, in the absence of a controlling reason for depriving the parent of his so-called natural
right, he shall take precedence over others in the matter of
guardianship. But consideration of the historical development of the law of this subject demonstrates that the king,
as the source of power and authority over all his subjects, or
the State standing in the place of the king, over its citizens,
has a power to re-take unto itself the delegated right of custody
of an infant, and this power is superior, not only to that of a
guardian, but to the power of a parent.
The doctrine of comity between States prevented the
Supreme Court of Arizona from depriving the State of New
York of the custody of the infant child to which, by the laws
of New York, it was entitled. Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13
Pet. 519, 590.
The exercise of comity is an exercise of sovereign power, a
determination of sovereign-policy.
There is 'no sovereignty in a Territory; its authorities can
exercise no sovereign power, can determine upon no sovereign
policy.
The United States is the sovereign of the Territories, and it
is for that Government to determine the policy of those Territories. And in the absence of any legislation in that behalf,
it is for this court, in proper cases, to determine what that
policy shall be.
The State of New York, having all of the rights of a natural

NEW YORK FOUNDLING HOSPITAL v. GATTL 431,
203 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

parent to the control of this child, was entitled to its custody
by reason of the finding of the Supreme Court of Arizona that
the State of New York was a fit guardian for the child. Dwight
on Persons, 243; Richards v. Collins, 45 N. J. Eq. 283, 286;
Re Finn, 2 DeGex & S. 457; Curtis v. Curtis, 5 Jurist (U. S.),
1148.
The facts found by the court below entitled appellant as a
matter of right to the custody of the childThe child, having been abandoned, became a ward of the
State, which under such circumstances acts as parens patrix.
Fondham v. Pierce, 141 Massachusetts, 203; Ex parte Krauss,
4 Wharton (Pa.), 9; In re Barry, 42 Fed. Rep..113, 118.
The Foundling Hospital, therefore, in all that it did with
reference, to this child, under its charter, acted as the agent
of the State of New York, and, as its representative, in carrying
out and fulfilling, the duties imposed upon the State itself.
Whatever interference was had by anyone with the Hospital,
while carrying out such duties, was an interference with the
agents of that State. Woodworth v. Spring, 4 Allen, 321,
distinguished.
The relation of a State to an abandoned child within its
jurisdiction gives it and its agents even a greater right to
recognition in a foreign State than in the case of a parent.
The State acts upon the assumption that its authority as
parens patrix supersedes all- authority conferred by birth.
People v. Chegary, 18 Wend. 637, 642; People v. Mercein, 8
Paige Ch., 47, 69.
It is well settled by the courts of New York that the managers of the institution are not bound by state limits in providing for children committed to them under the statutes.
People v. House of Refuge, 18 How. Pr. 409. The Hospital,
therefore, when it sent the child to Arizona, was carrying out
its duty in a manner recognized by the laws of the State.
The State of New York having rightfully confided these
children to the appellant, the appellant has, irrespective of its
agency for the State of New York, a legal right to the custody

OCTOBER TERM, 1906;
Argument for Appellee.

203 U. S.

and control of the children, even when such children are without the State of New York and within a Territory, because of
the powers lawfully vested in it as a corporation. Am. &
For. Christian Union v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352.
As a mere matter of legal discretion, upon the facts found,
the court should have restored these children to the custody
of the appellant. Seymour v. DeLancey, 3 Cowen, 505, 521.
The fact that the respondent has been appointed guardian
of the infant Norton, gives him no legal right to its custody,
and presents no legal obstacle to its being restored to the appellant.
Mr. Walter Bennett, with whom Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr.,
was on the brief, for appellee:
This being a proceeding by habeas corpus to invoke the
powers of this court, as parens patrioe to award the care,
custody and control of a minQr child, it is not a case of habeas
corpus "involving the question of personal freedom" within
the meaning of § 1909, Rev. Stat., and this court has no
jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Arizona on this appeal. Sec. 1909, Rev.
Stat.; Gonzales v. Cunningham, 164 U. S. 612; In re Burrus,
136 U. S. 586; In re Barry, 42 Fed. Rep. 113; King v. McLean
Asylum, 64 Fed. Rep. 331; Clifford v. Williams, 131 Fed.
lep. 100.
The charter of the New York Foundling Hospital gives it no
power to place children confided to its care in other homes or
institutions, either within or without the State of New York,
or to retain any control over them when so placed, except in
case of children of suitable age, bound out or apprenticed to
somne trade, profession or employment.
The Hospital is a foreign corporation in relation to Arizona;
as such foreign corporation, or as de facto foreign guardian, it
could exercise no power or authority over the minor child as a
matter of right in that Territory. It has not complied with its
laws so as to give it any standing as a corporation, in that it

NEW YORK FOUNDLING HOSPITAL v. GATTI. 433
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

has not filed in the office of the territorial auditor a copy of
its charter or appointment of an agent' upon whom process
can be served. Ch. IX, Rev. Stat. Ariz., 1901; Morgan v.
Potter, 157 U. S. 195; Hoyt v. Sprague, 103 U. S. 613, 631;
Jones v. Bowman, 67 L. R. A. 860; In re Nichols .Est., 34 Pac.
Rep. 250.
At the time of the issuance of the writ of habeas corpus the
respondent was the guardian of the minor child William
Norton, by appointment of the Probate Court, and had qualified and was acting as such guardian. The respondent could,
not as a matter of law, be guilty of restraining or depriving
his ward of his liberty. Fitts v. Fitts, 21 Texas, 511; Ferguson
v. Ferguson, 36 Missouri, 197; Mathews v. Wade, 2 West Va.
464; Ex parte Miller, 109 California, 643; In re Chin Mee Ho,
73 Pac. Rep. 1002; In re Lundberg, 77 Pac. Rep. 156; Church
on Habeas Corpus, § 457.
On appeal from the Supreme Courts of the Territories, this
court is restricted to an inquiry whether the findings of fact
made by the court below support its judgment, and to a review of exceptions duly taken to rulings on admission or rejection of evidence. Grayson v. Lynch, 163 U. S. 468; Bear
Lake v. Garland, 164 U. S. 1, 18; Harrisonv., Pearce, 168 U. S.,
311, 323; Young v. Army, 171 U. S. 171, 183; Apache County
v. Barth, 177 U. S. 538, 542.
In all cases in which the court has jurisdiction to award
the custody of a minor child, the best interests of the child
is the controlling consideration. In re Barry, 42 Fed. Rep.
113, 121; Woodworth v. Spring, 4 Allen, 321; Kelsey v. Gollee,
69 Connecticut, 291; Lamar v. Harris, 44 S. E. Rep. 867;
Church on Habeas Corpus, § 446.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The suit below was begun by a petition for a writ of habeas
corpus, by the New York Foundling Hospital, a corporation
of the State of New York, against John C. Gatti, to command
VOL. cOiii-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

said Gatti to produce the body of one William Norton, an
infant, and to show by what right he held such infant under
his custody and control.
The' petitioner set out in substance that, by its charter
granted by the legislature of New York, it was authorized
to receive and keep under its charge, custody and control
children of the age of two years or under, found in the city
of New York, abandoned or deserted, and left in the crib
or other receptacle of petitioner for foundlings, and to keep
such children during infancy; that the child William Norton
had come to it as a foundling within the terms of its charter;
that the petitioner, the fourth of October, 1901, to October 2,
1904, had the care, charge, custody and management of said
child; that on or about the first of October, 1904, petitioner
placed the child in the home of a certain person in the town
of Clifton, county of Graham, Territory of Arizona, to be
held and cared for by the said person in said home temporarily, and at all times subject to the supervision of the petitioner and its officers and agents; that at such time the petitioner had officers and agents of trained experience at the
town of Clifton, with instructions to supervise said child and
the care and management of it while temporarily in the charge
and care of the said person as aforesaid; that at all times the
petitioner had the right at will to withdraw the child from
the care and charge of the said person and retain the custody
thereof,. and continue to keep the said child in pursuance of
law under its care, charge, custody and management during
the term of its infancy as aforesaid.
Upon information and belief it charges that thereafter, and
on or about the second day of October, 1904, one John C. Gatti,
residing at the said town of Clifton, his servants and employds,
unlawfully and with force and violence entered into the house
of the said person, where at the time of said unlawful entrance
the said child William Norton was, having been placed there
as aforesaid, and forcibly, unlawfully, and without right took
possession of said William Norton and removed him thence to

NEW YORK FOUNDLING HOSPITAL v. GATTI. 435
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the custody of the said John Gatti. That the said child has
ever since said day been in the custody and under the control
of the said Gatti, and that the said child is now restrained
of its liberty by the said Gatti, without the consent or license
of the petitioner and against its desire, intention and protest,
and in violation of its rights under the laws of the State of
New York, of the United States and of the Territory.
The respondent made return and claimed to be entitled
to the custody of the child named in the petition as the legally
appointed guardian, duly qualified as such under letters of
guardianship issued by the Probate Court of Graham County,
Arizona. And further set forth in the return that the child
in question is a white, Caucasian child; that the petitioner on
or about the first day of October, 1904, brought the said child
to the Territory of Arizona and abandoned him to the keeping
of a Mexican Indian, whose name is unknown to the respondent, but one financially unable to properly clothe, shelter,
maintain and educate said child, and, by reason of his race,
mode of living, habits and education, unfit to have the custody,
care and education of the child; that said person, to whom
petitioner is alleged to have abandoned said child, voluntarily
sutrendered it to certain persons, who thereupon placed it in
the care, custody and control of respondent, who is a fit person
for that purpose, and it will be to the best interest of the child
that he be permitted to remain with the respondent, whose
purpose and intention it is to rear, maintain, educate and
provide for said child as though he were his own.
The petitioner traversed the return, and denied that the
said minor was in the care, custody and control of the respondent by virtue of letters of guardianship, and alleged that
the said minor has been in the care, custody and control of
respondent Gatti. by force and violence, and without authority
of law or of any person legally authorized to place the child
in the custody of the respondent.
The case came to trial on the issues of fact raised in the
petition, return and traverse thereof by the petitioner, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

the testimony having been heard in open court, a final order
was made, adjudging the said William Norton to be a minor
of the age of two and one-half years, and that his best interests
required that the said John C. Gatti have the care, custody
and control of said infant, who was thereupon remanded to
the care, custody and control of said respondent.
In the view which we take of the jurisdiction of this-court
to entertain the appeal in this ease it is unnecessary to consider
,the elaborate findings of fact made in the Supreme Court of
Arizona as the basis of its order, further than they bear upon
the question of jurisdiction to entertain this appeal.
It was found that children were taken into the Territory
by the representatives of the Foundling Hospital, to remain
there and be placed in suitable homes in Arizona, but, by
imposition practiced upon the agents of the society, the children
were distributed among persons wholly unfit to be instrusted
with thein, being, with one or two exceptions, half-breed
Mexican Indians of bad character. That thereupon a cominittee was appointed from the citizens resident of the vicinity,
who visited the homes of the persons having possession of the
children, stating to them that they had been appointed by
the American residents to take possession of the children,
who were then voluntarily surrendered by such persons. The
children were taken charge of by certain good women, and
afterwards the child William Norton was given to the respondent, who has since had his care; custody and control.
This was done without the consent of the society or its agents.
Afterwards ldters of guardianship were issued to the respondent by the Probate Court of Graham County, Arizona. The
petitioner took an appeal from the order granting the letters
of guardianship to the District Court of the county. Pending
this appeal the petition for the writ of habeas corpus was filed.
The court, acting upon the principle that the best interests
of the infant are controlling, awarded the care and custody
thereof to the respondent, 79 Pac. Rep. 231, and the petitioner
took an appeal to this court.

NEW YORK FOUNDLING HOSPITAL v. GATTI. 437
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Territory to
issue the writ of habeas corpus is -iot called in question in this
case.
We are met at the threshold with an objection to the appellate jurisdiction of this court. The appeal in such cases is
allowed under cover of section 1909, Rev. Stat. Gonzales
v. Cunningham, 164 U. S. 612. That section provides:
"SEC. 1909. Writs of error and appeals from the final decisions of the Supreme Court of either of the Territories of
New Mexico, Utah, Colorado, Dakota, Arizona, Idaho, Montana
and Wyoming shall be allowed to the Supreme Court of the
United States, in the same manner and under the same regulations as from the Circuit Courts of the United States, where
the value of the. property or the amount in controversy, to
be ascertained by the oath of either party, or of other competent witnesses, exceeds one thousand dollars, except that a
writ of error or appeal shall be allowed to the Supreme Court
of the United States from the decision of the Supreme Courts
created by this title, or of any judge thereof, or of the District
Courts created by this title, or of any judge thereof, upon
writs of habeas corpus involving the question of personal freedom."
The question is, therefore, is this a writ of habeas corpus
"involving the question of personal freedom"? That this
section of the statute does not permit appeals from all cases
in which the writ is issued is manifest in the use of language
in the act, specifically limiting the right of review in this court
to cases of writs which involve the question of personal freedom.
A brief consideration of the history and nature of the writ
will, we think, make manifest the purpose of Congress in using
this restrictive language giving the right of appeal. The writ
is usually granted in order to institute an investigation into
the illegal imprisonment or wrongful detention of one alleging
himself to be unlawfully restrained of his liberty.
The jurisdiction is conferred to enable the cause of restraint

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court. '

203 U. S.

to be inquired into, and the person imprisoned or wrongfully
deprived of freedom restored to liberty.
The subject was discussed by Mr. Justice Miller in the case
of In re Burrus, 136 U. S. 586, in which it was held that a
District Court of the United States has no authority to issue
a writ of habeas corpus to restore an infant to the custody of
its father when unlawfully detained by its grandparents.
Appended to that case, and printed by request of the mem•bers of the court, isan instructive opinion by Judge Betts,
delivered in the case of In re Barry, United States Circuit Court
for the Southern D3istrict of New York,. in which he reached
the conclusion that a Circuit Court of the United States had
no jurisdiction in habeas corpus to entertain a controversy as
to the custody of a child when the father sought to compel
the mother to deliver it to him, a question not decided in
In re Burrus. In the course of. the discussion the learned
judge points out the :origin of the writ as a means of relief from
arrest or. forcible imprisonment, and its growth in later use
as a means of determining the custody of children:
"There is no reason to doubt that originally the common-law
writ was granted solely in cases of arrest and forcible imprisonment under color or claim of warrant of law.
. "As late as 2 James II, the court expressly denied its allowance in a case of detention or restraint by a private person
(Rex v. Drake, Comberback, 35, 16 Viner, 213); and the habeas
corpus act of Charles II, which is claimed as the Magna Charta
of British liberty, has relation only to imprisonment on criminal
charges. 3 Bac. Ab. 438, note.
"It is not important to inquire at what period the writ first
was employed to place infant children under the disposal of
courts of law and equity. This was clearly so in England
anterior to our Revolution (Rex v. Smith, .2Strange, 982;
Rex v. Delaval, 3 Burrow, 1434; Blissett's case, Lofft. 748);
and the practice has been fully confirme d in the continued
assertion of the authority by those courts unto the present
day. (King v. Demanneville, 5 East. 221; Demanneville v.

NEW YORK FOUNDLING HOSPITAL v.GATTI. 439
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Demanneville, 10 Ves. 52; Ball v. Ball, 2 Sim. 35; Ex parte
Skinner, 9 J. B. Moore, 278; King v. Greenhill, 4 Ad. & El.
624); and this indifferently, whether the interposition of the
court is demanded by the father or mother. (4 Ad. & El.,
624 ubi sup.; 9 Moore, 278 ubi sup.)
"The authority to take cognizance of the detention of
infants by private persons, not held under claim, or color, or
warrant of law, Tests solely in England on the common law.
It is one of the eminent prerogatives of the crown, which implies in the monarch'the guardianship of infants paramount
to that of their natural parents. The royal prerogative,, at
first exercised personally ad libiturm by the King (12 Pet. 630),
and afterwards, for his relief, by special officers, as the Lord
High Constable, the Lord High Admiral and the Lord Chancellor, in process of time devolved upon the high courts of
equity and law, and in them this exalted one; of allowing and
enforcing the writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, became
vested as an elementary branch of this jurisdiction. In the
performance, however, of this high function in respect to the
detention of infants by parents, etc., the court or judge still
acts with submission to the original principle, out of which
it sprang, that infants ought to be left where found, or be
taken from that custody and transferred to some other, at
the discretion of the prerogative guardian, and according tn
its opinion of their best interests and safety."
It was in the exercise of this jurisdiction as parens patrioe
that the present case was heard and determined. It is the
settled doctrine that in such cases the court exercises a discretion in the interest of the child to determine what care and
custody are best for it in view of its age ana requirements.
Such cases are not decided on the legal right of the petitioner
to be relieved from unlawful imprisonment or detention, as in
the case of an adult, but upon the court's view of the best
interests of those whose welfare requires that they be in
custody of one person or another. In such cases the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

of personal freedom is not involved except in the sense of a
determination as to which custodian shall have., charge of one
not entitled to be freed from restraint. As was said by
Sharkey, C. J., in 6 How. (Miss.) 472:
"An infant is not entitled to his freedom; an adult is. When
a habeas corpus is granted to an adult, the object is to inquire
whether he is legally restrained of his liberty, because if he is
not, he must be set free, for the plain reason that by law he
is entitled to his freedom. But if the court is also to set the
infant free, they give him a right to which he is not entitled,
and deprive the parent or guardian of a right to which he is
entitled; to wit, the custody of the infant."
We think that such considerations as these induced Congress
to limit the right of appeal to this court in habeas corpus cases.
The discretionary power, exercised in rendering the judgment,
the ability of local tribunals to see and hear the witnesses and
the rival claimants for custody of children, induced, in our
opinion, the denial of appeal in such cases as the one at bar,
as distinguished from those of a different character, where
personal liberty is really involved, and release from illegal restraint, a high constitutional and legal right not resting in the
exercise of discretion, is sought, in which an appeal is given
to this court.
In the present case there was no attempt to illegally wrest
the custody of the child from its lawful guardian while temporarily in the Territory of Arizona. The society voluntarily
took the child there with the intention that it should remain.
Through imposition the child Was placed in custody of those
unfit to receive or maintain control over it, aiqd, as above
stated, came into the custody and possession of the respondent.
The child was within the jurisdictiqn of the court under
such circumstances that rival claimants of the right of custody
might invoke the jurisdiction of a competent court of the
Territory to determine, not the right of personal freedom,
but to which custodian a child of tender years should be committed. Woodworth v. Spring, 4 Allen,'321.

CRANE v. BUCKLEY.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

We do not think that the case comes within the provisions
of section 1909, permitting an appeal to this court only in cases
involving the question of personal freedom.
The appeal will be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER took no part in

the decision of 'this

case.,

CRANE v. BUCKLEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 58. Argued October 25, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.
The obligation of sureties upon bonds is strictissini juris and not to be
extended by implication or enlarged construction of the -terms of the
contract entered. into.
Sureties on a supersedeas bond given by defendant to answer, in case of
.. is failure to prosecute his appeal to effect, to plaintiff for loss in use
and possession of premises, which, under decree of Circuit Court. plaintiff
was entitled to rednter on a date therein specified in default of payment
by defendant of balance of purchase price, held not liable on the bond
where the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree as to plaintiff's
right to reenter in case of non-payment, but modified it by giving defendant until a later date to make the final payment, thereby also extending his right of possession until that date.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles S. Cushing, with whom Mr. William Grant was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
- The bond under consideration is given under § 1000, Rev.
Stat., and is a formal 'instrument required by the law, and
governed by the law, and has, by nearly a, century's use become a formula in legal proceedings, with a fixed and definite
meaning. Hotel Co. v. Kountze, 107 U. S. 378.
The affirmance of the judgment by the upper court con-

clusively establishes the-liability of the appellant on the bond.

