OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

CITY OF MONTEREY v. JACKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 27.

Argued October 16, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

In California, pueblo lands, which were simply ancillary to the execution of
the public trust and in which the pueblo never had an indefeasible proprietary interest, and which were subject to the supreme political dominion
of the former Mexican government, became, on the change of government,
equally subject to the sovereignty of the State of California through its
legislature, and the title to such lands did not pass to the United States.
The title of one holding under a deed to pueblo lands from a city in California, ratified by the legislature, sustained as against the city claiming to
hold under a subsequent patent from the United States.
139 California, 542, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Hamilton Gay Howard for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. I. Brobeck, with whom Mr. John Garber and Mr.
Frederic D. McKenney were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
Action to quiet title brought by plaintiff in error (and,

being plaintiff in the c6urt below, we will so designate it) in
the Superior Court of the county of Monterey, to 1,635.03 acres
of land,, situate in Monterey County, State of California.
Plaintiff alleged title in fee simple, and contends that such

title has come to it as successor of the pueblo of Monterey
of Upper California. There is no dispute that the land was
part of the pueblo of Monterey, and that, after proper proceedings had in pursuance of acts- of Congress, the title -of the

city of Monterey was confirmed by a decree of the Board of
Land Commissioners and a patent issued to the city Novembr 19, 1891.

MONTEREY v. JACKS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant gets his title through one D. R. Ashley, who
was the attorney for the city to present and prosecute its
claim to the land before the Board of Land Commissioners.
To pay the indebtedness incurred for his services the land was
sold under the authority of certain acts of the legislature of
the State, and purchased by him. The validity of the title
so derived, as against the title of the city as successor of the
pueblo of Monterey,- free from the control of the legislature,
makes the question in the case. Judgment passed for the
defendant in the trial court and was affirmed by the Supreme
Court. 139 California, 542. This writ of error was then
allowed.
The city of Monterey was incorporated by an act of the
legislature of the State of California, March 30, 1850, and
became thereby successor 6f the former pueblo to its -pueblo
lands. In 1857 the charter of the city was amended, and by
section 7 thereof the trustees were empowered to pay off the
expenses of prosecuting the title of the city before the United
States land commissioners and before the United States courts,
and for that purpose sell and transfer any property, right or
franchise upon such terms and for such price as might by them
be deemed reasonable. It was found by the lower courts (and
we quote from the opinion of the Supreme Court) that"On January 24, 1859, said Ashley presented to the trustees
of the. (ity of Monterey a claim amohnting to $991.50 for

services as its attorney in presenting such pueblo claim to
the commissioners. The claim was approved and allowed,
and, there being no funds in the treasury to pay it, the board
of trustees passed a resolution directing that a sale of all the
pueblo lands of the city, or so much of them as might be necessary to pay the claim of said Ashley, be made at public auction
on the ninth day of February, 1859. Due notice of the time
for holding said sale was given, and the same was held at the
time and in accordance with the notice, at which sale the
entire pueblo tract was bid in by the said I). R. Ashley and
the defendant, David Jacks, for the sum of $1,002.50, being

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

the amount of the indebtedness and the necessary expenses
of sale; no one offering to purchase less than the whole, or bid
a higher amount. Thereafter said trustees made, executed
and delivered a conveyance of said lands, dated February 9,
1859, but acknowledged February 12, 1859, in favor of said
D. R. Ashley and the defendant, David Jacks, and in the
conveyance the proceedings taken by the trustees in th
matter of such sale were recited. This conveyance was recorded in the county recorder's office of the county of Monterey,
on June 11, 1859. On April 2, 1866, the act to incorporate the
city of Monterey was amended to read as follows: 'SEC. 2. All
sales and conveyances made by the corporate authorities of
said city since the eighth day of February, 1859, and which
conveyances purport to have been recorded in the county
recorder's office of Monterey County, purporting to convey
public lands, or lands confirmed to said city of Monterey, in
)ursuance of the act of Congress of March 3,1851, and entitled:
An act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the
State of California, are hereby ratified and confirmed.' On
September 4, 1869, Ashley conveyed all his interest in the land
in controversy to the defendant."
The contentions of the parties are in part made to turn upon
the kind of right the city of Monterey derived as the successor
of the pueblo of Monterey, whether proprietary or in trust,,
and because in trust subject to the disposition of the legislature
of the State. This distinction was expressed by the Supreme
Court and the case determined by it, and the couft supported
its action by a citation of prior decisions. It was said: "There
is a marked difference, however, between lands which are held
by a municipality in trust for public, municipal purposes, such
as pueblo lands, and lands acquired by a municipality through
purchase or special grant, and held in proprietary right."
Of the latter class it was said: "That it is beyond the power
of the State to control its disposition without the consent of
the municipality." In the other case, "the lands being simply
ancillary to the execution of the public trust-lands in which

MONTEREY v. JACKS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the pueblo never had an indefeasible proprietary interestand which were subject to the supreme political dominion of
the former Mexican government, became equally subject to
the sovereignty of the State of California through its legislature
upon the change of government."
Plaintiff attacks this conclusion, and contends that the title
to the lands vested, not in the State of California as succeeding sovereign, but in the United States, and the United States,
having the title, passed it by the patent of November 19, 1891,
to the plaintiff. And this contention, plaintiff asserts, presents
the Federal question to be decided. At one time this might
have been regarded as a serious question, but it is no longer
so. Whatever of legal power the State of California may
exercise over its municipalities has received decisive definition
in -many decisions.- The cases are quoted by the Supreme
Court in the case at bar. 'Whatever power the United States
may exercise, or, by refraining from exercising, yield to the
State of California to exercise, has long been decisively settled.
We need not review the cases. An exposition of them can be
found in United States v. Santa Fe, 165 U. S.675.
If the United States was, as contended, a paramount sovereign, and as such possessed, the .power to direct the trust to
which pueblo lands were subject, it did not do so, but conveyed land to the "city of Monterey, its successors and assigns."
In other words, the conveyance was made to a municipality of
the State of California, a creature of the laws of the State and
subject to the State. Payne v. Treadwell, 16 California, 220;
San Francisco v. Canavan, 42 California, 541. See also Kies
v. Lowrey, 199 U. S. 233. And we may observe that the
United States by an act passedl June 15, 1906, has designated
the city of Monterey as trustee of the original grant and confirnied the land to the city as patented. 34 Stat. 267.
We do not-think, 'however, that the Federal question pre-.
sented is so far unsubstantial as to justify a dismissal of the
writ of error, and the motion to dismiss is denied.
Judgi)feft affirmed.

