GILA VALLEY
203 U. S.

t. R. CO. v. LYON.
Syllabus.

of the authority was drawn in question. We held otherwise,
and said:
"The validity of a statute is not drawn in question every
time rights claimed under such statute are controverted, nor
is the validity of an authority, every time an act done by such
authority is disputed.
"What the relator sought was an order coercing these officers
to proceed in a particular way, and this order the Supreme
Court of the District declined to grant. If we were to reverse
that judgment upon the ground urged, it would not be for
want of power in the Auditor to audit the account, and in the
Comptroller to revise and pass upon it, but because those
officers had disallowed what they ought to have allowed and erroneously construed what needed no construction. This would
not in any degree involve the validity of their authority."
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543, is not to the contrary, for
there the validity of a rule constituting the authority of certain officers in the Patent Office wvas drawn in question.
Writ of errordismissed.

GILA VALLEY, GLOBE AND NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. LYON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 96.

Argued.November 13. 1906.-Decided December 10, 1906.

Where the negligence of the master in not supplying proper appliances
has a share in causing injuries to an employ6, the master is liable notwithstanding the negligence of a fellow servant may have contributed
to the accident.
Defendant's objection to the charge on the ground that it should have been
more specific as to the distinction between sole and proximate cause
cannot be raised by a general exceptionnor should it be sustained if the
jury had its attention drawn to the proximate cause and was charged
that if the negligence of the fellow servant was the proximate cause
plaintiff could not recover.
In an action for damages for personal injuries alleged to have been caused
by unsafe appliances of a railroad company, the admissibility of, expert

VOL. cci-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

testimony is within the reasonable discretion of the trial court, and that
discretion is not abused by the admission of testimony of men who had
had practical experience on railroads and were familiar with structures
of the kind involved in the action.

THE defendant in error, who was plaintiff below, recovered
a judgment against the railroad company, plaintiff in error,
in a trial court in Arizona Territory, for the negligent killing
of her son, which juNgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and the company brings the case here,
The deceased was a brakeman and had been employed by
the defendant company as such for a few weeks before, the
accident occurred in which he lost his life. He acted as one
of the brakemen upon the freight train, which was pushed
up on a spur track that ran from the main line in the town
of Globe, in the Territory, to a mining station, about five hundred yards away. The accident, which resulted in the death
of the deceased, occurred on this spur track on July 14, 1900.
The grade of the spur, after leaving the main line, was for a
short distance level. It then became quite steep upgrade,
getting steeper and steeper, until it again became level, under
what is termed the tramway house. This was a structure
erected over the tracks, and the bottom of it was only two
feet above the top of the freight cars, and from that tramway
structure to the end of the road the grade was about level,
and the distance a little over a hundred feet. The track
ended on a trestle, with a buffer at the end, which was not
calculated to resist a car pushed by an engine, but only to
stop one pushed by hand or, by the wind. The trestle ended
at the side of a caion, and there was at that point an abrupt
fall to the bottom of the cafion of. seventy-five feet. There
was a curve on the spur track, which would prevent the engineer from seeing the end of his train, and he would have to
obtain signals from others in order to run his engine. The
upgrade was s steep that only a few cars could be taken up
from the main track at any one time.
On the occasion of the accident the train started from the

GILA VALLEY R. R. CO. v. LYON.
203 U. S.

Statem

t of the Case.

main line, and was pushed upgrade by the engine in the rear.
The deceased was on top of the front car of the train, being
farthest away from the engine at the time the train was being
pushed up. The conductor was on the car next to that of
the deceased, and by his orders the engineer shoved the train
as rapidly as he could, and ran it at the rate of five or six miles
an hour, and then after a shove the two cars on which were
the deceased and the conductor were detached from the train'
and passed along at that rate of speed under the tramway
house and on to the level portion of the road, which ended in
about a hundred feet at the side of the caion. The deceased
was unable to control the speed of the cars with his brakes,
and the car on which he was riding passed along and knocked
away the buffer and plunged down to the bottom of the cafion.
Eyewitnesses of the accident immediately descended the side
of the cafion and found at the bottom the car and the dead
body of the deceased.
There was evidence tending to show that the spur track
was not a safe and proper structure to operate over its length
with cars, for the reason that the tramway house was so close
to the top of the cars when passing under it that the brakes
coild not be handled, and there was not sufficient length of
road 'after the train passed under the house during which to
get the cars under control and stop" them before they arrived
at the end of the track and the side of the canon. The only
way in which it ought ever to have been done was to have
the engine at all times attached to the- train, and even then,
if anything got out of order with the engine, the train was not
under control of the brakeman, on account of the tramway
house. The buffer at the end of the track was also asserted
to be insufficient, and witnesses were called who testified that
the track was not a, reasonably safe one upon which to conduct
the business of the road.
The company, on its part, gave evidence tending to show
that the track was properly constructed; that the buffer was
sufficient for the purpose intended, and that the whole structure

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

was a reasonably safe place, and that the accident was caused
simply by the flagrant negligence of the conductor, in ordering
the two cars to be detached from the train, and thus taken
away from the control of the engine. It also gave evidence
that the buffer was not to be used at the end of the track to
stop cars in motion, nor were the handbrakcs intended to be
so used at that spot, as it was intended that the engine should
control the cars and should not be there detached from them.
They therefore insist that when the operation was properly
performed the matters of the low shed, short track and insufficient buffer were immaterial. It was all predicated upon the
fact that the cars should be under the control of the engine
and should not be detached therefrom, as these cars were,

under the ordersof the conductor.
Mr. Frank W. Burnett for plaintiff in error:
The jury should have been instructed to render a verdict
for the )laintiff in error. Callaway v: Allen, 64 Fed. Rep.
297; C. C. & St. L. R. R. v. Brown, 73 Fed. Rep. 970; Hussey
v. Coger, 112 N. Y. 614; Hagan v. Smith, 125 N. Y. 774; Rendall v. B. & 0. R.R., 109 U. S. 478.
It was error to charge that negligence of conductor must
have been the sole cause of the accident, to relieve plaintiff in
error from liability. Railroad Co. v. Cummings, 106 U. S.
700; Elmer v. Locke, 135 Massachusetts, 575; A., T. & S.
F. Ry. .v. Larmigan, 42 Pac. Rep. 343; Morrisey v. Hughes, 27
Atl. Rep. (Vt.) 205; Wood on Master & Servant, 812; Vizelich
v. So. Pac. Co., 126 California, 587; Trewatha v. Buchanan
Co., 28 Pac. Rep. (Cal.) 571; So. Pac. Co. v. Yergin, 109 Fed.
Rep. 436; Whitman y. Railway Co., 17 N. W. Rep. (Wis.) 124;
C. N. 0. & T. P. Ry.v. Mealer, 50 Fed. Rep. 725; Al. & S. P.
Ry.Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469; Norfolk & IV. Ry. Co. v. Brown,
22 S.E. Rep. (Va.) 496; Edmondson v. Kent, CentralRy. Co., 49
S. W. Rep. (Ky.) 200; Arizona Lumber & Timber Co. v. Mooney,
42 Pac. Rep. (Ariz.) 952; Little Rock & M. R. Co. v. Baxiy, 84
Fed. Rep. 944.

GILA VALLEY R. R. CO. v. LYON.
203 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

In addition to the cases already cited as sustaining the
position of the plaintiff in error, are the following: Evansville
R. R. Co. v. Henderson, 134 Indiana, 636; Allen v. N. Gas Co.,
L. R. 1 Exch. Div. 251; 45 L. J. Exch. N. S. 668; 34 L.
T. N. S. 541; Conger v. Flint R. R., 86 Michigan, 76; Kevern
v. Providence G. & S. M. Co., 70 California, 392; Whitman v.
Wisconsin & M. R. Co., 58 Wisconsin, 408; Course v. N. Y.,
L. E. & W. Ry. Co., 17 N. Y. S. R. 715; N. 0. & T. P. R. Co.
v. Mealer, 50 Fed. Rep. 725; Grover v. Harley, 53 Fed. Rep.
983; Morris v. Duluth S. S. Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 749; Norfolk
& W. Ry. Co. v. Brown, 91 Virginia, 668; Bull v. Mobile & 31. R.
Co., 67 Alabama, 206; Rose v. Gulf & C. R., 17 S. W. Rep. 789;
N. Y. &c. R. R. v. Perriguey, 138 Indiana, 414..
Mr. Waters Davis for defendant in error:
The first assignment of error is grounded upon the false
assumption that the premises were reasonably safe, when in
fact they were far from being so. In answer to this assignment see Paulmier's Admr. v. Railway Co., 5 Vroom (34
N. J. L.), 151; Railway Co. v. Cummings, 106 U. S. 700; Morrisey
v. Hughes, 27 Atl. Rep. (Vt.) 205; Elmer v. Locke, 135 Massachusetts, 575; Gonzales v. Galveston, 84 Texas, 6; Clyde v.
Railway Co., 59 Fed. Rep. 398; Railway Co. v. Cooley's Adnr., 49
S. W. Rep. (Ky.) 339; Railway Co. v. Jones, 23 Fed. Rep. 753;
Railway Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64; Railway Co. v. Young,
49 Fed. Rep. 725; Railway Co. v. Wilson, 38 N. E. Rep. (Ind.)
343; Railway Co. v. Yeargin, 109 Fed. Rep. 436.
The second assignment of error that the court erred in deny-.
ing the motion for a new trial was made upon the ground that
the evidence did not sustain the verdict or judgment, but the
granting or refusing of a new trial is not subject to review.
Company v. Mann, 130 U. S. 69; Railway Co. v. Railway Co.,
132 U. S.191; Wilson v. Everett, 139 U. S. 616.
,The third and fourth assignments of error raise the point
that the trial court erred in refusing to submit to the jury
certain special interrogatories requested by plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Arizona construed its code with reference to the, submission of such interrogatories and held its
provisions to be directory and not mandatory, and this court
will not reverse the decision of a territorial Supreme Court
upon a construction of its code. Sweeney v. Lomme, 22 Wall.

208.
The question of the admissibility of expert testimony is
for the determination of the trial court, and the action of the
trial court, will not, except in an extreme case, be disturbed.
Company v. Blake, .144 U. S. 476; Company v. Edgar, 99 U. S.
645; Murphy v. Railway Co., 66 Barb. (N. Y.) 125; Fort Wayne
v. Coombs, 7 N. E. Rep. (Ind.) 743; Lynch v. Grayson, 25 Pac.
Rep. (N. M.) 992; Railway Co. v. Bradley, 54 Fed. Rep. 632;
Conklin v. Railway Co., 12 N. Y. Supp. 846; Ives v. Leonard,
15 N. E. Rep. (Mich.) 463; Maughan v. Burns's Estate, 23
Atl. Rep. (Vt.) 583.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the toregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The, first .question presented by the plaintiff in error is
founded upon an exception to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury to render a verdict for the plaintiff in error,
on the ground that there was no evidence that the railroad
company was guilty of negligence by failing to provide a
reasonably safe place for the servants of the company to work
in; that the cause of the accident was the gross negligence
of the conductor ii ord(ering the cars to be detached from the
train and engine, and that such negliglence was that of a
fellow servant of the decea,,.d, and did not form the basis
for a recovery against the dhefondant. We are of opinion that,
taking the whole evidence, enough was proved on the part
of the plaintiff below to make it proper to send the case to
the jury on the question of the negligence of the company.
The next question arises in regard to the charge of the court
upon the proximate cause of the accident, whether it was the

GILA VALLEY R. R. CO. v. LYON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

negligence of the defendant company in not furnishing a proper
and reasonably safe place for its employ~s to work, or that it
was the negligence of the conductor (a fellow servant of the
deceased) in ordering the cars detached from the engine.
The court -charged that"The conductor of the train was a fellow servant of the
man who was killed, and if the accident was brought about
solely by the negligence of the conductor of the train, then the
defendant company is not liable; or if the accident was brought
about by the negligence of the conductor and the negligence
of the man who was killed, the defendant company is not liable. If, however, the accident was caused by a failure of the
defendant company to provide a reasonably safe place: to
perform the work in which the man who was killed was engaged, then the defendant company is liable in damages for
the death, if it was negligent in not providing such safe place.
"The fundamental question, therefore, for you to determine
in this case is, what was the cause of this accident; what
brought it about?
"If you find that this accident was caused solely by the
action of the conductor in the method which he employed in
putting ears on. the spur at the time in question, then you should
find a verdict for the defendant company, and you should not
award any damages to the plaintiff in this case; or if you
should find that the dead man has through his own negligence
brought about this accident or contributed to it, then you
should find for the defendant, and you should not award any
damages in this case.
"On the other hand, if you find that the defendant company
was negligent in not providing a reasonably safe place for the
performance of the work, you should find for the plaintiff and
award her damages, provided that the negligence of the defendant in not providing such a safe place- was the cause of
the accident gr contributed to the accident.
"To find for the plaintiff, it is not enough that you should
find that the premises were unsafe, or that the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

company was negligent in that respect, in not providing a safe
place; you must also find that the place was unsafe, and that
the accident was brought about or contributed to by reason
of that unsafe place. That is, if you should find that the act
of the conductor was the sole, or if you should find that it was
the proximate or.the procuring cause of the accident, then you
should not award damages; but if you find that the accident
was caused by the acts of the conductor and also by the negligence of the defendant company in not providing a safe place
to do the work, then you should find damages for the plaintiff.
In other words, in order to award damages to the plaintiff,
you must find, first, that the defendant company was negligent in not providing a safe place to do the work, and that
such negligence was the cause of the accident or contributed
thereto. If you- find th6 accident was brought about solely
by the acts of the conductor, you should not award damages.
If the acts of the conductor alone did not cause the accident,
but the accident was contributed to by the negligence of the
defendant company by not providing a safe place to work, then
you should award damages."
Again:
"Was the place where the deceased was working a reasonably safe place for the performance of the work to be done
there-a reasonably safe place, considering the character of
the work to be done and the character of the premises?
"If you find it was not reasonably safe, and the defendant
company was negligent in that respect, did that fact have
anything to do with the accident, or was it caused by the
negligence of the conductor of the train alone?
"If it was caused solely or procured or brought about by
the negligence 'of the conductor, then the defendant is not
liable. If the negligence of the defendant company contributed to the accident, then the defendant is liable, provided the dead man himself was not guilty of any negligence,
which contributed to the accident."
The company now finds fault with this charge, on the ground

GILA VALLEY R. R. CO. v. LYON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that it was error to charge that unless the accident was caused
solely by the action of the conductor, the defendant was liable;
that "sole" cause is not synonymous with "proximate"
cause,, as the action of the conductor may not have been the
sole, although at the same time it may have been the "proximate" cause, and if it was the proximate cause, the company
would not be liable. The rule would seem to be that if the
negligence of the company had a share in causing the injury
to the deceased, the company was liable, notwithstanding the
negligence of a fellow servant contributed to the happening
of the accident. Grand Trunk Railway Co. v. Cummings, 106
U. S. 700; Ellis v. Railroad Co., 95 N. Y. 546, 552. But, in
additionto the main charge above set forth, the court charged
the jury at the request of counsel for defendant as follows:
That if the manner of throwing the cars, as testified to, were
unsafe, and the conductor caused the cars to be so thrown by
that unsafe method, and if such act of the conductor was the
proximate cause of the accident, and that such unsafe method
was adopted by the conductor without the authority or direction of the defendant, the plaintiff cannot recover; that if the
jury believed that the accident to the deceased was proximately caused by the negligence of the conductor, it was
immaterial whether the deceased had had previous experience
as a brakeman, or not; that, although the jury might believe
from the evidence that other, better and safer appliances might
have been used by the defendant company, yet the defendant
was not thereby rendered liable in this action, if the proximate
cause of the accident was the negligence of the conductor in
the manner in which he conducted the work on the occasion
in question; that, as the conductor was the fellow servant of
the deceased, the defendant could not be held liable if the
accident was proximately caused by negligence on the part
of the conductor; that if the jury believed, from the evidence,
that the appliances furnished by the defendant company were
defective, yet if they further believed, from the evidence, that
the conductor was negligent in the manner in which he con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

ducted the work on the occasion, and that such negligence was
the proximate cause of the accident, without which such
accident would not have happened, then the jury should find
for the defendant.
We think the defendant received no prejudice from the
charge as given, taken in connection with the defendant's
requests to charge, which were complied with. If the defendant had desired to obtain a more specific charge in relation to
tie distinction between "sole" and "proximate" cause of the
accident, as applied to the negligence of the conductor, the
court should have had its attention specifically drawn to the
objection to the word "sole," and the particular freedom from
liability asserted if the negligence of the conductor were the
proximate cause of the accident, as, distinguished from the
sole cause. A general exception to the charge as given would
not raise the question. Spring Co. v. Edgar, 99 U. S. 645,
659. The requests to charge as given show the jury had its
attention drawn to the proximate cause, and that if the conductor's negligence were the proximate cause, the plaintiff
could not recover.
A third, question arises upon the admission of evidence...
Certain of the witnesses for plaintiff were called to prove that,in their opinion, the company had not furnished a reasonably
safe place for its employ~s to work in. This was objected to
on the ground that the witnesses testifying to it were not
properly experts and should not be permitted to testify. One
witness, who testified that the buffer was not a reasonably
safe and proper, one, said that he had been railroading for
fifteen years, following the business of trackman during that
time; that it was his business to go over the track and see if
it was in proper shape, and that he had had something to do
with the construction of a railroad; 'that hf- was familiar with
the construction of tracks, trestles and buffers, that that was
what he had had to do; that overhead structures came under
another department; that he considered it unsafe for the reason
that the buffer would afford an obstruction to the wheels and

GILA VALLEY R. R. CO. v. LYON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the car would slide off the tracks and go over into the
ravine.
Another witness said that he had been working on railroads
for twenty years, and that from his experience he had had
occasion to become acquainted with structures over tracks,
over bridges and highways, and buffers at the end of chutes
and tracks, and as to the control of the cars, their operation
and the operation of the brakes on the cars, the stopping of cars,
the resisting power of.buffers, etc. He said that, in his opinion, the tramway house was too close to the top of a car, and
that it was an impediment to the operation of the handbrake
of the car, and that the buffer at the end was not an effective
obstruction. Evidence was given by other witnesses, by
depositions, in regard to the structure over the railroad track
and the character of the buffer.
In the cases of all the witnesses, we think the question of
the admissibility of their evidence was one within the reasonable discretion of the trial court, and that the discretion was
not abused. All the witnesses had had practical experience
on railroads, and were familiar with structures and the character of buffers mentioned in the evidence.. There was certainly enough to call upon the court to decide upon the admissibility of their opinions under these circumstances, and
we 'ought not to interfere with the decision of the trial court
in this case. Spring Co. v. Edgar, 99 U. S. 645, 658; Chateaugay Ore and Iron Co. v. Blake, 144 U. S. 476, 484.
There is no error in the record and the judgment is
Affirmed.

