OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

dismissed by that court, Ex parte Moyer, 85 Pac. 897, and a
writ of error has been prosecuted to this court. That is case
No. 266 on our present docket. He then sued out a writ of
habeas corpus from the Circuit Court of the United States,
and his discharge being refused by the court, he prosecuted
the present appeal.
For the reason stated in Pettibone's case, the final order is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.
The final order of the Circuit Court of the United States for Idaho, in
Haywood v. Nichols, No. 251, on appeal, is affirmed on the authority of
Pettibonev. Nichols, ante, p. 192, from which, as to the facts or the qjuestions
involved, it does not differ. The orders in Pettibone v. Whitney, No. 265,
Morey v. Whitney, No. 266, and Haywood v. Whitney, No. 267-each of
which cases is here upon writ of error to the Supreme Court of Idaho-involve the same questions as those determined in Pettibone v. Nichols, and by
agreement is to depend upon the judgment in that case, must also be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUsTICE McKENNA dissents.

APPLEYARD v. MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 115.

Submitted November 16, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

The constitutional provision relating to fugitives from justice is in the nature
of a treaty stipulation entered into for the purpose of securing a prompt
and efficient administration of the criminal laws of the several States and
its faithful and vigorous enforcement is vital to their harmony and welfare; and while a State should protect. its people against illegal action,
FRderal courts should be equally careful that the provision be not so narrowly interpreted as to enable those who have offended the laws of one
State to find a permanent asylum in another.
A person charged by indictment, or affidavit before a magistrate, within
a State with the commission of a crime covered by its laws and who leaves
the State, no matter for what purpose nor under what belief, becomes

:APPLEYARD v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

from the time of such leaving and within the meaning of the Constitution
and laws of the United States, a fugitive from justice; and in the absence of
preponderating or conceded evidence of absence from the demanding
State when the crime was committed it is the duty of the other State to
surrender the fugitive on the producti6n of the indictment or affidavit
properly authenticated.
Although, regularly, one seeking relief by habeas corpus in the state courts
should prosecute his appeal to, or writ of error from, the highest state
court, before invoking the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on habeas
corpus, where the case is one of which the public interest demands a
speedy determination, and the ends of justice will be promoted thereby,
this court may proceed to final judgment on appeal from the order of the
Circuit Court denying the relief.

THE appellant was indicted in the Supreme Court of New
York, county of Erie, for the crime of grand larceny, first degree, alleged to have been committed in that county on the
eighteenth day of May, 1904.
Upon that indictmenta warrant of arrest was issued, but
the accused was not arrested, for the reason that he was not
found within the State.
Then the District Attorney of Erie County applied to the
Governor of New York for a requisition upon the Governor
of Massachusetts for Appleyard as a fugitive from justice.
The application was based upon the above indictment and
numerous accompanying affidavits, stating, among other,
things, that the accused was then in Massachusetts. A requisition was accordingly made upon the Governor of that Commonwealth for the apprehension of Appleyard and his delivery
to a named agent of New York, who was authorized to receive
and convey him to the latter State, to be there dealt with
according to law. With that requisition went properly authenticated copies of all the papers which had been submitted to
the Governor of New York by the District Attorney of Erie
County.
The Governor of Massachusetts received the requisition and
pursuant to the statutes of that Commonwealth referred it to
the Attorney General for examination and report. Giving
the accused full opportunity to be heard and to introduce

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

evidence, of which he availed himself, that officer examined
the case and reported that the requisition was in regular and
proper form and that there was no sufficient reason why it
should not be honored. The Governor thereupon issued a
warrant for the arrest of Appleyard and his delivery to the
agent of New York to be taken to that State, the officer who
should execute the warrant being required to give the accused
such opportunity to sue out a writ of habeas corpus as was prescribed by the laws of Massachusetts in such cases. Appleyard having been arrested applied for a writ of habeas corpus
to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. This fact
is stated in the return of the officer holding the accused and
is not denied. That court, after hearing an argument, denied
the application and remanded the petitioner to the custody of
the agent of New York to be held in accordance with the warrant issued by the Governor of Massachusetts.
The accused then applied to the Circuit Court of the United
States for a writ of habeas corpus, alleging that the warrant
of the Governor of Massachusetts and the order for his delivery
to the agent of New York were issued without authority of
law and contrary to the Constitution and laws as well of the
United States as of Massachusetts, and "especially contrary
to sec. 2, art. 4, of the Constitution of the United States and
of sec. 5278 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in that
your petitioner is not a fugitive from justice." The writ was
issued and a return was made of the above facts.
At the hearing in the Circuit Court the' accused requested
a ruling that on the evidence it did not appear that, within
the meaning of the Constitution and laws of the United States,
he was a fugitive from justice, and, also, that he should
be discharged from custody unless it appeared positively, by
a preponderance of proof, that he "consciously fled from justice when he left the State of New York." Those requests were
denied. But the court granted a request that the finding by
the Governor of Massachusetts as a fact that the accused was
a fugitive from justice was not conclusive. The court refused

APPLEYARD v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to find, as facts, that the acts of Appleyard did not . constitute
a crime under the laws of New York; that no crime was committed by him in that State; and that Appleyard was not in
New York on May 18, 1904, the date of the alleged crime. It
consequently discharged the writ of habeas corpus. From
that order the present appeal was prosecuted.
Mr. Benjamin S. Minor and Mr. Fred H. Williams, for appellant.
Mr. Dana Malone, Attorney General of the State of Massachusetts, and Mr. Frederic-B. Greenhalge, for appellee.
. MR. JUSTICF HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
It can not be said that the appellant has not 'had ample
opportunity to test the question whether his detention was
in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States.
He has had three hearings upon that question; first, before
the executive authorities of Massachusetts, then before the
Supreme Judicial Court of that Commonwealth, and finally
before the Circuit.'Court of the United States. Upon each
occasion he insisted that, within the meaning of the Constitution and laws of the United States, he could not be regarded as
a fugitiye from justice... ,The decision at each hearing was
adverse to that contention and, unless this court reverses the
judgment .of the Circuit Court, he must stand his trial upon
the charge that he committed a crime against the laws of New
York. In view of the history of this case from the time of
the demand upon the Governor of Massachusetts for the surrender of the appellant, this court should hesitate, by disturbing the ruling below, to further delay the administration by
New York of its criminal laws through its own judicial tribunals. Regularly, the accused should have prosecuted a writ
of error to the Supreme Judicial Court of MassachuE Itts before'
VOL. CCnI-1 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

invoking the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States upon habeas corpus. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241,
251-253; Markuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S. 184; Minnesota v.
Brundage, 180 U. S. 499, 502; Reid v. Jones, 187 U. S. 153.
But in view of the long time which has elapsed since the Governor of New York made his requisition for the surrender of
the accused, and as the case is one which the public interests
demand should be speedily determined, we think the ends of
justice will be promoted if we proceed to a final judgment on
this appeal.
Upon a careful scrutiny of the record we discover no ground
for the assertion that the detention of the appellant is in
violation of the Constitution or laws of the .United States.
The crime with which he is charged is alleged in the indictment
to have been 'committed at Buffalo, New York, on May 18,
1904. It is, we think, abundantly established by the evidence
that he was personally present in that city on that day and
that thereafter he left New York, although there was some
evidence to the effect that on the particular day named he
was not in the State. In his own affidavit, submitted and
accepted as evidence, the accused specified several days when
he was in Buffalo, prior to and subsequent to May 18, 1904,
but, as stated by the Attorney General of Massachusetts in
his report to the Governor of that Commonwealth, there was
in that affidavit no statement directly denying that he was
in New York at thetime and place indicated in the indictment.
But the appellant contended below, as he does here, that
he had no belief when leaving New York at any time that he
had violated its criminal laws, and therefore, within the meaning of the Constitution and laws of the United States, he could
not be deemed a fugitive from its justice. This contention cannot be sustained; indeed, it could not be sustained without
materially impairing the efficacy of the constitutional and
statutory provisions relating to fugitives from justice. An
alleged fugitive may believe that he has not committed any
crime against the laws of the State in which he is indicted,

APPLEYARD v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and yet, according to the ±, .. s of such State, as administered
by its judicial tribunals, he may have done so, and his belief,
or want of belief, may be without foundation in law. It is
the province of the courts of New York to declare what its
laws are, and to determine whether particular acts on the
part of an alleged offender constitute a crime under such laws.
The constitutional provision that a person charged with crime
against the laws of a State and who flees from its justice must
be delivered up on proper demand, is sufficiently comprehensive to embrace any offense, whatever its nature, which the
State, consistently with the Constitution and laws of the
United States, may have made a crime against its laws.. Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66, 69; Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S.
642, 650. So that the simple inquiry must be whether the
person whose surrender is demanded is in fact a fugitive from
justice, not whether he consciously fled from justice in order
to avoid prosecution for the crime with which he is charged
by the demanding State. A person charged. by indictment
or by affidavit before a magistrate With the commission within
a State of a crime covered by its laws, and who, after the date
of the commission of such crime leaves the State-no matter
for what purpose or with what motive, nor under what belief-.
becomes, from the time of such leaving, and within the meaning of the Constitution and the laws of the United States, a
fugitive from justice, and if found in another State must be
delivered up by the Governor of such State to the State whose
laws are alleged to have been violated, on the' production of
such indictment or affidavit, certified as authentic by the
Governor of the State from which the accused departed. Such
is the command of the supreme law of the land, which may
not be disregarded by any State. The constitutional provision relating to fugitives from justice, as the history of its
adoption will show, is in the nature of a treaty stipulation
entered into for the purpose of securing a prompt and efficient
administration of the criminal laws of the several Statesan object of the first concern to the people of the entire country,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

and which each State is bound, in fidelity to the Constitution,
to recognize. ' A faithful, vigorous enforcement of that stipulation is vital to the harmony and welfare of the States. And
while a State should take care, within the limits of the law, that
the rights of its people are protected against illegal action,
the judicial authorities of the Union should equally take care
that the provisions of the Constitution be not so narrowly
interpreted as to enable offenders against the laws of a State
to find a permanent asylum in the territory of another State.
In Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, 95, 97, this court said
that the act of Congress, sec. 5278" of the Revised Statutes,
made it the duty of the executive authority of the State in
which is found a person charged with crime against the laws
of another State, and who has fled from its justice "to cause
the arrest of the alleged fugitive from justice, whenever the
executive authority of any State demands such person as a
fugitive from justice, and produces a copy of an indictment
found, or affidavit made, before a magistrate of any State,
charging .the person demanded with having committed a
crime therein, certified as authentic by the Governor or Chief
Magistrate of the State from whence the person so charged
has fled. It must appear, therefore, to the Governor of the
State to whom such. a demand is presented, before he can
lawfully comply with it, first,. that the person demanded is
substantially charged with a crime against the laws of the
State from whose justice he is alleged to have fled, by an indictment or an affidavit, certified as authentic by the Governor
,of the State making the demand; and, second, that the person
demanded is a fugitive from the justice of the State the executive authority of which makes the demand. The -first of
these prerequisites is a question of law, and is always open
upon the face of the papers to judicial inquiry, on an application for a discharge under a writ of habeas corpus. The second
is a question of fact, which the Governor of the.State upon
whom the demand is made must decide, upon such evidence
as he may deem satisfactory. How far his decision may be

APPLEYARD v. 1MASSACHUSETTS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reviewed judicially in proceedings in habeas corpus, or whether
it is not conclusive, -are questions not settled by harmonious
judicial decisions, nor by any authoritative judgment of this
court. It is conceded that the determination of the fact by
the executive of the State in issuing his warrant of arrest,
apon a demand made on that ground, whether the writ contains a recital of an express finding to that effect or not, must
be regarded as sufficient to justify the removal until the presumption in its favor is overthrown by contrary proof. Ex
parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642."
Replying to the suggestion,, .in that case, that the fugitive
was iot within the demanding State subsequent to the finding
of the indictment, the court further said: "The appellant in
his affidavit does not deny that he was in the State of New
'fork about the date of the day laid in the indictment w!ken
the offense is alleged to have been committed, and states, by
way of inference only, that he was not in that State on that
very day; and the fact that he has not been within the State
since the finding of the indictment is irrelevant and immaterial.
To be a fugitive from justice, in the sense of the act of Congress
regulating the subject under consideration, it is not necessary
that the party charged should have left the State in which the
crime is alleged to have been committed, after an indictment
found, or for the purpose of avoiding a prosecution anticipated
or begun, but simply that having within a State committed
that which by its laws constitutes a crime, when he is sought
t~o be subjected to its crimninal process to answer for his offense,
he has left its jurisdiction and is found' within the territory of
another." To the same effect are Ex parte Brown, 28 Fed.
Rep. 653i 655; In re White, 55 Fed. Rep. 54, 57; In re Bloch,
87 Fed. Rep. 981, 983. It is suggested that Roberts v. Reilly
was substantially modified in Streep v. United States, 160 U. S.
128, 134, in which the court had occasion to construe see.
1045 of the Revised Statutes. But this is an error. Interpreting the words "fleeing from justice" as found in that section, the court expressly held that these words must receive

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the same construction as was given in Roberts v. Reilly to like
words in sec. 5278 of the Revised Statutes, the inquiry in
that case being whether the accused was a fugitive from justice..
. In -support of his contention, the appellant refers to Hyatt
v. Corkran, 188 U. S. 691. That was the case of an arrest in
New York, under the warrant of the Governor of that State,
of an alleged fugitive from the justice of Tennessee, in which
State he stood charged by indictment with crime committed
in that State. This court said (p. 719) that as the alleged
fugitive "showed without contradiction and upon conceded'
facts that he was not within the State of Tennessee at the times
stated in the indictment found in the Tennessee court, nor at
any time when the acts were, if ever committed, he was not a
fugitive from justice within the' meaning of the Federal statute
upon that subject, and upon these facts the warrant of the
Governor of the State of. New York was improperly issued,
and the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the State of New
York, discharging the relator from imprisonment by reason
of such warrant must be affirmed." The present case is a
wholly different one; for here the presumption arising from
the recitals in the warrant, of arrest in favor of its validity was
not overthrown by the proof; on the contrary, it appeared,
by a preponderance of evidence, that the accused was in the
State of New York when the alleged crime was committed.
Similar views to those expressed in Roberts v. Reilly have
been expressed by state courts. In Kingsbury's case, 106 MassacAusetts, 223, 227, 228, the contention of the fugitive from justice was that, as she went into the demanding State and returned
to her home in the other State before the alleged crime was
known, she could not be deemed to have fled from justice.
But the court said: "The material facts are, that the prisoner
is charged with a crime in the manner prescribed, and -has
gone beyond the jurisdiction of the State, so that there has been
no reasonable opportunity to prosecute her after the facts
were known. The fact in this case, that she returned to her
permanent home, cannot be material.

.

.

.

It is sufficient

APPLEYARD v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the crime of larceny has been properly charged, and that
the prisoner is a fugitive, and a requisition has been properly
made." In State v. Richter, 37 Minnesota, 436, 438, the contention was that to constitute a fugitive from justice a person
must have left the State where the crime was committed for the
purpose of escaping the legal consequences of his crime. Referring to Roberts v. Reilly, above cited, as authoritative and
binding, and ,As in accordance with its own views, the Supreme
Court of Minnesota well said:." The sole purpose of this statute,
and of the constitutional provision which it was designed to
carry into effect, was to secure the return of persons who had
committed crime within one State, and had left it before answering the demands of justice. The important thing is not
their purpose in leaving, but the fact that they had left, and
hlence were beyond the reach of the process of the State where,
the crime was committed. Whether the motive for leaving
was to escape prosecution or something else, their return to
answer the charges against them is equally within the spirit
and purpose of the statute; and the simple fact that they are
not within the State to answer its criminal process, when
required, renders them, in legal intendment, fugitives from
justice, regardless of their purpose in leaving." In Voorhees
case, 32 N. J. L. 141, 150, the court said: "A person who commits a crime within a State, and withdraws himself from such
jurisdiction without waiting to abide the consequences of such
act, must be regarded as a fugitive from the justice of the
State whose laws he has infringed. Any other construction
would not only be inconsistent with good sense, and with the
obvious import of the word to be interpreted in the context
in which it stands, but would likewise destroy, for most practical purposes, the efficacy of the entire constitutional provision." In Ex parte Swearingen, 13 S. Car. 74, 80, the court
held that the terms fugitive from justice "were intended to
embrace not only a case where a party after committing a
crime actually flees, in the literal sense of that term, from the
State where such crime was committed, but also a case where

232.

2OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

903 U..S.

a citizen of one State, who, within the territorial limits of another State, commits a crime, and then simply returns to hi.
own home. The object of the Constitution was to enable a
State: whose laws had been violated, to secure the arrest of
the person charged with such violation, even though such person might be beyond the reach of-the ordinary process of such
State." In Mohr's case, 73 Alabama, 503, 512, the court,
referring to the words in the Constitution, "who shall flee from
justice and be found in another State," said: "There is a diff&ence of opinion as to what must be the exact nature of this
flight on the part of the criminal, but the better view, perhaps,
is that any person is a fugitive within the purview of the Constitution, 'who goes into a State, commits a crime, and then
returns home.' " In Hibler v. State, 43 Texas, 197, 201, the
court saia: "The words 'fugitive from justice,' as used in this
copnection, must not be understood in a literal sense, but in
reference to the subject-matter, considering the general object
of the Constitution and laws of the United States in relation
thereto. A person who commits a crime in one State for
which he is indicted, and departs therefrom and is found in
another State, may well be regarded as a fugitive from justice
in the sense in which it is here used."
Referring to the opinion in Pettibone v. Nichols, just decided,
for a further discussion of the general subject, and perceiving
no error in the action of the Circuit Court, its final order is
Affirmed.

