ALLEN v. RILEY.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the road to successfully compete with its rivals in the transportation of interstate passengers and freight.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit of Appeals was right, and it is

Affirmed.

ALLEN v. RILEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 99.

Submitted November 6, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

While a State may not pass any law prohibiting the sale of patents for inventions or nullifying the laws of Congress regulating their transfer, it has
the power, until Congress legislates on the subject, to make such reasonable
regulations in regard to the transfer of patent rights as will protect its
citizens from fraud; and a requirement in the laws of Kansas that before
sale or barter of patent rights, an authenticated copy of the letters patent
and the authority of the vendor to sell the right patented shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the county within which the rights are sold isnot
an unreasonable regulation.
71 Kansas, 378, affirmed.
FRANCES J. RILEY, the defendant in error, who was plaintiff below, recovered a judgment against plaintiffs in error,
defendants below, for $1,250, in the District Court of Brown
County, in the State of Kansas, which judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, and the defendants below
have brought the case here by writ of error.
The suit was commenced by the filing of a petition by defendant in error, plaintiff below, in a District Court of Kansas,
March 17, 1902, to recover the value of certain lands alleged
to have been transferred by the plaintiff to the defendant
Erasmus W. Allen, in part payment for the transfer to plaintiff of rights for the State of Kentucky under a patent dated
January 30, 1901, for a washing machine. The right to recover is based upon the failure of the defendants to comply
with the Kansas statute, which failure defendants do' not

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

203 U. S.

deny, but they insist that the statute is void as being in violation of the Constitution of the United States and the act
of Congress referred to in the opinion. The Kansas statute
is chapter 182 of the Laws of 1889. A copy of the act is set
out in the margin.'
Mr. N. H. Loomis, Mr. R. W. Blair and Mr. H. A. Scandrett
for plaintiffs in error:
The Constitution gives Congress power to promote the
progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited
times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries, and Congress has exer1 Chapter 182, Laws of 1889 (paragraphs 4356, 4357 and 4358, General
Statutes of Kansas, 1901), reads as follows:
"SEc. 1. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or barter or offer to sell
or barter any patent right* or any right which such person shall allege to be
a patent right, in any county within this State, without first filing with the
clerk of the District Court of such County copies of the. letters patent duly
authenticated, and at the same time swearing or affirming to an affidavit
before such clerk that such letters patent are genuine, and have not been
revoked or annulled, and that he has full authority to sell or barter the right
so patented; which affidavit shall also set forth his name, age, occupation
and residence; and if an agent, the name, occupation and residence of his
principal. A copy of this affidavit shall be filed in the office of said clerk,
and said clerk shall give a copy of said affidavit to the applicant, who shall
exhibit the same to any person on demand.
"SEc'. 2. Any person who may take any obligation in writing for which any
patent. right, or right claimed by him or her to be a patent right, shall form
a whole or any part of the consideration, shall, before it is signed by the
maker or makers, insert in the body of said written obligation, above the
signature of said maker or makers, in legible writing or print, the words,
'Given for a patent right.'
"SEc. 3. Any person who shall sell or barter or offer to sell or barter within
this State, or shall take any obligation or promise in writing for a.patent
right, or for what he may call a patent right, without complying with the
requirements of this act, or shall refuse to exhibit the certificate when demanded, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
before any court of competent jurisdiction shall be fined ,in any sum not
exceeding one thousand dollars, or be imprisoned in the jail of the proper
county not more than six months, at the discretion of the court or jury trying the same, and shall be liable to the party injured in a civil action for
any damages sustained."

ALLEN. v. RILEY.
203 U.S.

Argument lor 'Praintiffs in Error.

cised that power by appropriate legislation regulating the
issue of letters patent and providing for their assignment.
3 U. S. Comp. Stat. 1901, ยง 4898, as amended by act of March
3, 1897. Congress has attempted *totake exclusive charge of
the issuing and assignment of patents.
It has prescribed the manner of making application, the
proof required, the time for which granted, and finally, that
every patent shall be assignable by an instrument in Writing,
which shall be recorded in the Patent Office within three
.months from its date.
That the assignment shall be in writing and be recorded
in the Patent Office are the only restrictions prescribed by
Congress, and are the only ones contemplated.
The question is squarely presented whether or not the
state statute placing additional restrictions on the assignment of a patent is in conflict with the Constitution and laws
of the United States. The state court has held it was not.
Mason v. McLeod, 57 Kansas, 105. The decisions of the
state courts are not harmonious. Those taking a contrary
view to the Kansas court include Hollida v. Hunt, 70 Illinois,
109; Cranson v. Smith, 37 Michigan, 309; Crittenden v. White,
23 Minnesota, 24; Er parte Robinson, 2 Biss. 309; Helm v.
National Bank, 43 Indiana, 167, but see Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501. See also Brechbill v. Randall, 102 Indiana,
528; Hankey v. Downey, 116 Indiana, 118; Wilch v. Phelps, 14
Nebraska, 134; Commonwealth v. Petty, 29 S. W. Rep. 291;
Woolen v. Banker, 2 Flipp. 33; Castle v. Hutchinson, 25 Fed.
Rep. 394; Pegram v. Am. Alkali Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 1000;
Brown v. Pegram, 125 Fed. Rep. 577. Reeves v. Coming, 51
Fed. Rep. 787; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344, distinguished.
This court has decided that a State in the exercise of its
police powers may regulate the handling of a product manufactured under a patent, such as illuminating oil as in Patterson's case and sewing-machines in Webber's case, but it has
never decided that a State can in any way interfere with an

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

inventor's exclusive right to his discoveries.

203 U. S.

The decisions

in commenting on Patterson's and Webber's cases show the
plain distinction made between the tangible property manufactured under a patent and the incorporeal rights of the
owner of the patent. Commonwealth v. Petty, 29 S.W. Rep.
291; Castle v. Hutchinson, 25 Fed. Rep. 394; Pegram v. Am.
Alkali Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 1005; Wilch v. Phelps, 14 Nebraska,
134.
The Kansas Supreme Court upholds the statute on the
ground that it is a police regulation, but overlooks the vice
of including in one class all patent-right owners, good and
bad, and imposing upon a certain kind of property created
by an act of Congress, burdens not borne by any other property in the State.
The act is no more a proper police regulation than was the
act of Virginia, requiring all flour imported from other States
to be inspected, which was held void by this court. Voight
v. Wright, 141 U. S.62.
The Kansas statute also violates the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, because it singles out a class
of property brought into existence by an act of Congress under
a constitutional grant and imposes a burden simply on account
of its character. Cammeyer v. Newton, 94 U. S. 226.
Mr. A. E. Crane and Mr. T. T. Woodburn for defendants in
error:
The statute does not trench upon Federal power, nor interfere with the right secured to a patentee by the Federal law.
It is true that no State can interfere with the right of the
patentee to sell and assign his patent, ortake away any essential feature of his exclusive right. The provisions in
question, however, have no such purpose or effect. They are
in the nature of police regulations, designed for the protection
of the people against imposition and fraud. There is great
opportunity for imposition and fraud in the transfer of intangible property, such as exists in a patent right, and many

ALLEN v. RILEY.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States have prescribed, regulations for the transfer of such
property, differing essentially from those which control the
transfer of other property. There were some early decisions
holding that such regulations trenched upon the Federal
power and the rights of the patentee, but recent authorities
hold that reasonable police regulations may be enacted by
the State without usurping any of the powers of the Federal
Government or infringing upon the exclusive rights of the
patentee. Breckbill v. Randall 102 Indiana, 528; New v.
Walker, 108 Indiana, 356; Pape v. Wright, 116 Indiana,
502; Sandage v. Studebaker, 142 Indiana, 148; Tod v. Wick
Brothers & Co., 36 Ohio St. 370; Herdic v. RaEssler, 109 N. Y.
127; Haskell v. Jones, 96 Pa. St. 173; Pattersonv. Kentucky,
97 U. S. 501; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344.
The power to establish the ordinary regulations of police
has been with the individual States, and cannot be assumed
by the National Government. Cooley, Const. Lim., 572, 574;
Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501, and see also Reeves v.
Coming, 51 Fed. Rep. 774, 782; Re Brosnahan, 18 Fed. Rep.
62; Livingston v. Van Ingan, 9 Johns. 528; Cammeyer v. Newton,
94 U. S. 225.

The statute does not abridge the privileges and immunities
of citizens guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution. That amendment does not interfere with the
proper exercise of police power by the States. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678;
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
If the statute is a reasonable- exercise of police power, it
necessarily follows that it does not violate the protective
clause of the amendment. Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62,
distinguished.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

The sole question for our determination in this case is con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

cerning the constitutionality of the Kansas act. The opinion
of the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas is 'reported in
71 Kansas, 378, and 80 Pac. Rep. 952.
The judgment herein is founded upon Mason v. McLeod,
57 Kansas, 105, which case has been followed by that of
Pinney v. First National Bank of Concordia, 68 Kansas, 223.
The defendants insist that the act in question violates article one, section 8, of the Constitution of the United States, and
the Federal statute passed in pursuance thereof, being Rev.
Stat. ยง 4898; 3 Comp. Stat. p. 3387. The Constitution grants
to Congress the right "To promote the progress of science and
useful arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and
discoveries;" and section 4898 of the Revised Statutes provides that every patent or interest therein shall be assignable
in law by an instrument in writing, which assignment is made
void against any subsequent purchaser or mortgagee, for a
valuable consideration, without notice, unless it is recorded
in the Patent Office within three months from the date thereof.
It is asserted by the plaintiffs in error that the subject of
the sale or assignment of the whole or any part of an interest
in a patent is derived from the laws of Congress passed with
reference to the constitutional provision quoted above,' and
that any regulations whatever, by any state authority in regard
to such assignment or sale, and making provision in respect
to them, are illegal.
The Supreme Court of Kansas has maintained and upheld
the Kansas act on the ground that the statute is simply a reasonable and proper exercise of the police power of the State
in regard to the subject of the act. Mason v. McLeod, supra.
That court was of opinion that the provisions of the Kansas
statute did not trench upon the Federal power nor interfere
with the rights sectired to patentees by Fedetal law. The
opinion does not assert that a state statute can interfere with
the right of a patentee to sell or assign his patent, nor that it
can take away any essential feature of his exclusive right, but,

ALLEN v. RILEY.
203 U. S.

-Opinion of the Court.

as is stated, the provisions in the act have no such purpose
or effect; that "they are in the nature of police regulations
designed for the protection of the people against imposition
and fraud. There is great opportunity for fraud and imposition in the transfer of intangible property, such as exists
in a patent right, and many of the States have prescribed
regulations for the transfer of such property differing essentially
from those which control the transfer of other property."
Many authorities are cited, and the opinion then continues:
"The doctrine of these cases is that the patent laws do not
prevent the State from enacting police regulations for the
protection and security of its citizens, and that regulations
like ours, which are mainly designed to protect the people
from imposition by those who have actually no authority to
sell patent rights or own patent rights to sell, should be upheld.
We think the statue is valid."
In Indiana a statute, which is like that in Kansas, has be~n
upheld by the Supreme' Court of that State. Brechbill v.
Randall, 102 Indiana, 528. That case has since that time
been followed in Indiana. New v. Walker, 108 Indiana, 365.
In Ohio a statute somewhat similar to the one in question has
been upheld. Tod v. Wick Bros. & Co., 36 Ohio St. 370.
And the same result has been reached in Pennsylvania. Haskell v. Jones, 86 Pa. St. 173. In Herdic v. Roessler, 109 N. Y.
127, the validity of the same kind of a statute has been upheld.
See also Wyatt v. Wallace, 67 Arkansas, 575; State v. Cook,
107 Tennessee, 499. The statutes in the different States are
not all precisely like the Kansas law, but they make provisions
in regard to the sale or assignment of rights under a patent,
and sometimes in regard to notes given for their purchase,
which cannot be upheld under the contention of plaintiffs in
error herein, that all such provisions are in violation of or
inconsistent with the laws of Congress on the subject. The
courts of some other States, having like questions before them,
have held their statutes void. .Hollida v. Hunt, 70 Illinois,
109; Cranson v. Smith, 37 Michigan, 309; Wilch v. Phelps, 14
vor. ccii-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Nebraska, 134; State v. Lockwood, 43 Wisconsin, 403, and some
others.
The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit, in Ozan
Lumber Co. v. Union County National Bank, 145 Fed. Rep.

344, has held a statute of Arkansas upon this same subject
void, because of its discrimination between articles of property
of the same class or character, based only on the fact that the
property discriminated against was protected by a patent
granted by the United States. In the opinion in the case,
authorities upon the subject are cited and commented upon.
Among the cases cited are Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S.'
501, and Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344.
In Patterson v. Kentucky, supra, the owner of a patent
right
for an improved burning oil was convicted of the violation of
a Kentucky statute by the sale of the oil covered by the patent.
The owner claimed the right to sell such oil notwithstanding
the statute, which provided a standard below which oil was
regarded as dangerous for illuminating purposes -and the sale
of which was prohibited. It was admitted the patented oil
did not come up to the state standard. This court held the
conviction was right, and that the owner of the patent was
not protected, by reason of his ownership, from liability under
the state statute. That statute was held to be one passed
in the legitimate exercise of the powers of the State over its
purely domestic affairs, and it was said that it did not violate
either the Constitution or laws of the United States, a when
property protected by patent once comes into existence its
use is subject to the control of the several States to the same
extent as any other species of property.
Webber v. Virginia, supra, relates also to tangible property
covered by a patent, and it was held that the patent did not
exclude from the operation of the taxing or licensing law of
the State the tangible property manufactured under a patent.
It was said in that 'case that "Congress never intended that
the patent laws should displace the police powers of the States,
meaning by that term those powers by which the health, good

ALLEN v. RILEY.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

order, peace, and general welfare of the community are promoted. Whatever rights are secured to inventors must be
enjoyed in subordination to this general authority of the
State over all property within its limits."
While these two cases do not cover the one now before us,
because they refer to tangible property which has been manufactured and come into existence under a patent, and the case
before us relates to provisions which are to accompany an
assignment of initangible rights, growing out of a patent, yet
the general power of the States to legislate in order to protect
their citizens in their lives and property from fraud and deceit
is recognized, not as being without limit, of course, but as
being properly exercised in the cases named.
We think the State has the power (certainly until Congress
legislates upon the subject) with regard to the provision which
shall accompany the sale or assignment of rights arising under
a patent, to make reasonable regulations concerning the subject, calculated to protect its citizens from fraud. And we
think Congress has not so legislated by the provisions regarding an assignment contained in the act referred to.
In some of the cases holding such statutes void it is said that
it is unfortunately true that many frauds are committed under
color of patent rights, and that the patent laws are not so
framed as to secure the public from being cheated by worthless inventions, but notwithstanding that they hold statutes
of the nature of the one under consideration to be void, as
trenching upon the rights of the owner of a patent secured
by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
To uphold this kind of a statute is by no means to authorize
any State to impose terms which, possibly, in the language
of Mr. Justice Davis, in Ex parte Robinson, 2 Biss. 309, "Would
result in a prohibition of the sale of this species of property
within its borders, and in this way nullify the laws of Congress
which regulate its transfer, and destroy the power conferred
upon Congress by the Constitution." Su~h a statute would
not be a reasonable exercise of the powers of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court

203 U. S.

'In Michigan the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Campbell, while holding the act under review in that case upon this
subject invalid, Cranson v. Smith, 37 Michigan, 309, said:
"While we cannot but recognize the magnitude of an, evil
which has brought patents into popular discredit, and has
provoked legislation in several States similar to that in Michigan, we cannot on the other hand fail to see in these- laws a
plain and clear purpose to check the evil by hindering parties
owning patents from dealing with them as they may deal with
their other possessions." If there is a special evil, unusually
frequent and easily perpetrated when parties are dealing in
the sale of rights existing or claimed to exist under a patent,
we do not see why a State may not, in the bona fide exercise
of its powers, enact some special statutory provision which
may tend -to arrest such evil, and may omit to enact the same
provision concerning the disposal of other property. There
is no discrimination which can be properly so called against
property in patent rights, exercised in such legislation. It is
simply an attempt to protect the citizen against frauds and
impositions which can be more readily perpetrated in such
cases than in cases of the sale or assignment of ordinary property.
The act must be a reasonable and fair exercise of the power
of the. State for the purpose of checking a well-known evil and
'to prevent, so far as possible, fraud and imposition in regard
to the sales of rights under patents. Possibly Congress might
enact a statute which woul(l take away from the States any
power to legislate upon the subject, but it has not as yet (lone
so. It has simply provided that every patent, or interest
therein, shall be assignable in writing, leaving to the various
States the power to provide for the safeguarding of the interests of those dealing with the assumed owner of ca patent,
or his assignee. To deal with that subject has been the purpose of the.aets passed by the various States, among them that
of the State of Kansas, and we think that it was within the
powers of the State to enact such statute. The expense of

ALLEN v. RILEY.
203 U. S.

WHITE and DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

filing copies of the patent and the making of affidavits in the
various counties of the State in which the owner of the rights
desired to deal with them is not so great in our judgment as
to be regarded as oppressive or unreasonable, and we fail to
find any other part of the act which may be so regarded.
Some fair latitude must be allowed the States in the exercise
of their powers on this subject. It will not do to tie them up
so carefully that they cannot move, unless the idea is that the
States have positively no power whatever on the subject. This
we do not believe, at any rate in the absence of Congressional
legislation. The mere provision in the Federal statute for an
assignment and its record as against subsequent purchasers,
etc., is not Such legislation as takes away the rights of the
States to legislate on the subj-ect themselves in a manner
neither inconsistent with nor opposed to the Federal statute.
We think the judgment is right, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

with whom concurs MR. JUSTICE

DAY,

dissenting.
My brother Day and myself dissent. The reasons, however,
which impel him are broader than those influencing me. In
gete-ral terms the Kansas statute, which the court now upholds,
compels one selling a patent right in any county of the State
of Kansas to file with the clerk of such county an authenticated
copy of the patent, together with an affidavit as to the genuineness of the patent, and as to other matters. The statute,
moreover, exacts that where a note is given for the purchase
price of a patent right, there shall be inserted in the note a
statement that it is given for a patent right, presumably to
deprive the note of the attributes of commercial paper. We
both think that the requirements as to recording the patent
and affidavit are void, because repugnant to the power delegated to Congress by the Constitution on the subject of patents,
and because in conflict with the legislation of Congress on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906..
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

same subject. And, for like reasons, my brother Day is also
of the opinion that the provision is void which exacts an insertion in a note given for the sale of a patent right of the fact
that it was given for such sale. This latter provision; in my
opinion, the State had the power to make as a reasonable police
.,regulation not repugnant to the authority as to patents delegated to Congress by the Constitution or the legislation which
Congress has enacted in furtherance thereof.

JOHN WOODS & SONS v. CARL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF AR KANSAS.
No. 102.

Submitted November 7, 1006.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Allen v. Riley, ante p. 347 followed as to power of a State to require one
.selling patent rights to record the letters patent and applied to a law of
Arkansas, which also makes a note void if given for a patent right, if the
note does not show on its face for what it was given.
75 Arkansas, 328, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion. '

Mr. Homer C. Mechem and Mr. Edwin Mechem. for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. John Fletcher and Mr. W. C. Ratcliffe for defendant in
error,
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the proper court of the State
of Arkansas by the plaintiffs in error to recover the amount
of a promissory note, which was given by the defendant in
error on the sale to him of a patented machine and of the
right to the. patent in the State of Arkansas. Before the

