OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U.S.

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE CASES.
RED BIRD et al., CITIZENS OF THE CHEROKEE
NATION BY BLOOD, v. UNITED STATES.
CHEROKEE NATION v. UNITED STATES.
FITE et al., INTERMARRIED WHITE PERSONS,
CLAIMING TO BE ENTITLED TO CITIZENSHIP IN
THE CHEROKEE NATION, v. UNITED STATES.
PERSONS CLAIMING RIGHTS IN THE CHEROKEE'
NATION BY INTERMARRIAGE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS

FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 125,126,127 and 128. Argued February 19,20,1906.-Decided November 5, 1906.
Judgment of the Court of Claims affirmed to effect that all those white
persons who married Cherokee Indians by blood subsequently to the
enactment of the Cherokee law, which became effective November 1,
1875, acquired no rights of soil or interest in the lands and vested funds
of the Nation as citizens; and that those white persons who married
Cherokee citizens by blood prior to said date did acqure rights as citizens
in the lands belonging to the Nation, and held and owned as national
lands, except such of them as lost their rights as Cherokee 'citizens by
abandoning their Cherokee wives or by marrying other white or non-tribal
men or women having no rights of citizenship by blood in said Cherokee'
Nation.
The rule that the language of a statute is to be interpreted in the light
of the particular matter in hand and the object sought to be accomplished as manifested by other parts of the act, and that the words used
may be qualified by their surroundings and connections, applied to the
construction of the acts of Congress relating to citizenship in, and distribution of tribal property of the Cherokee Nation.
It is a settled rule of construction thai as between the whites and the Indians
the laws are to'be construed most favorably to the latter.
40 C. Cl. 411, affirmed.

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE. CASES.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

subject matter of this suit consists of 4,420,406 acres
of land in the Cherokee c6untry about to be allotted among
the Cherokee people entitled to .participatein the distribution
of the common property of the Cherokee .Nation. The case
was transmitted to the Court of Claims by the Secretary of
the. Interior on the twenty-fourth of February, 1903, the
nature of the controversy being thus 6t-.
.'-°
"A -controversy has arisen as to th8 .
sons intermarried with Cherokee citizens, and a protest has
been filed with this Department on behalf of a large number
of citizens of the Cherokee Nation by blood against the enrollment of intermarried persons, 'so as to recognize their
right to participate in the distribution of any of the common
property of the Cherokee Nation of whatever kind or character.' It is asserted, on the one hand, that the Cherokee
laws have never recognized the right of 'intermarried citizens'
to share in the distribution of the property of the Nation, and,,
on the other hand, that the Cherokee laws as well as the laws
of Congress recognize those persons who have been married
to Cherokee citizens in accordance with the laws of the Cherokee. Nation relating to marriage as full citizens of such Nation
entitled to share equally -with full blooded citizens in the
property of the tribe."
Thereafter, Congress, by the act of March 3, 1905 (33 Stat.
1048, 1071, c. 1479), provided as follows:
"That in the case entitled 'in the matt-r of enrollment of
the Cherokee Nation by intermarpersons claiming rights in"
United
States, departmental, numbered
riage against the
seventy-six,' now pending in the Court of Claims, the said
court .ishereby authorized and empowered to render finaljudgment in said case, and either party feeling itself aggrieved
by said judgment shall have the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States within thirty days from
the filing of said judgment in the Court of Claims.- And the
said Supreme Court of the United States shall advance said
ease on its calendar for early hearing."
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

The Court of Claims filed its opinion May 15, 1905, and
on May 18 findings 'of fact and conclusions of law, and on
that day entered its decree as follows (p. 446):
"This case having been transmitted to this court by the
Secretary of the Interior by letter dated February 24, 1903,
for the findings and opinion of the court in accordance with
the provisions of section 2 of the act of Congress of March 3,
1883, entitled 'An act to afford assistance and relief to Congress and the executive departments 'inthe investigation of
claims and demands against the Government' (22 Stat. 485),
and Congress, by the act of March 3, 1905, entitled 'An act
making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department and for fulfilling treaty
stipulations with various Indian tribes for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1906, and for other purposes,' having made
the following enactment:
" 'That in the case entitled "In the matter of enrollment of
persons claiming rights in the Cherokee Nation by intermarriage against the United States, departmental, numbered
seventy-six," now pending in the Court of Claims, the said
court is hereby authorized and empowered to render final
judgment in said case, and either party feeling itself aggrieved
by said judgment shall have the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States within thirty days from
the filing of said judgment in the Court of Claims. And the
said Supreme Court of the United States shall advance said
case on its calendar for early hearing;'
"And the cause coming on to be heard upon the petition
answers, agreed facts, proofs, and arguments submitted by
the attorneys of the parties to the cause, respectively, and the
court having heard and fully considered the same;
"And it appearing to the court that all those white persons
who married Cherokee Indians by blood subsequently to the
enactment of the Cherokee law, which became effective November 1, 1875, and which declared that such persons by
intermarriage acquired no rights of soil or interest in the

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE CASES.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

vested funds of the Nation, had due notice of the limitations
set upon their rights and privileges as citizens; and that those
white persons who married Cherokee citizens by blood prior
to said date acquired rights as citizens in the lands belonging
to the Nation, and held and owned as national lands, except
such of these intermarried persons as lost their rights as
Cherokee citizens by abandoning their Cherokee wives or by
marrying other white or non-tribal men or women having
no rights of citizenship by blood in said Cherokee Nation:
"It is by the court ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
such white persons residing in the Cherokee Nation as became
Cherokee citizens under Cherokee laws by intermarriage with
Cherokees by blood prior to the first day of November, 1875,
are equally interested in and have equal per capita rights
with Cherokee Indians by blood in the lands constituting
the public domain of the Cherokee Nation, and are entitled
to be enrolled for that purpose, but such intermarried whites
acquired no rights and have no interest or share in any funds
belonging to the Cherokee Nation except where such funds
were derived by lease, sale, or otherwise from the lands of
the Cherokee Nation conveyed to it by the United States by
the patent of December, 1838; and that the rights and privileges of those white citizens who intermarried with Cherokee
citizens subsequent to the first day of November, 1875, do not
extend to the right of soil or interest in any of the vested
funds of the Cherokee Nation; and such intermarried persons
are not entitled to share in the allotment of the lands or in
the distribution of any of the funds belonging to said Nation,
and are not entitled to be enrolled for such purpose; that those
white persons who intermarried with Delaware or Shawnee
citizens of the Cherokee Nation either prior or subsequent to
November 1, 1875, and those who intermarried with Cherokees by blood and subsequently being left a widow or widower
by the death of the Cherokee wife. or husband, intermarried
with persons not of Cherokee blood, and those white men
who have married Cherokee women and subsequently aban-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

doned their Cherokee wives have no part or share in the
Cherokee property, and are not entitled to participate in the
allotment of the lands or in the distribution of the funds of
the Cherokee Nation or people, and are not entitled to be
enrolled for such purpose."
Cherokee citizens by blood took an appeal to this court
from so much of that decree as adjudged that persons intermarrying with Cherokee citizens prior to November 1, 1875,
were entitled to share in the Cherokee property, which appeal
is numbered in this court 125; and the Cherokee Nation
prosecuted a similar appeal, numbered 126. Then certain
intermarried whites appealed from the decree except that
portion which held that the whites who intermarried prior
to November 1, 1875, were entitled to share, numbered 127.
And thereafter other intermarried whites appealed generally,
numbered 128.
The case is reported in 40 Court of Claims, 411, where will
be found an elaborate statement of the facts, including the
acts of the Cherokee National Council, etc., bearing on the
subject matter.
Mr. John J. Hemphill, with whom Mr. K. S. Murcheson
was on the brief, for Cherokees by blood.
Mr. Edgar Smith for the Cherokee Nation.
Mr. William T. Hutchins and Mr. James S. Davenport for
persons claiming rights in the Cherokee Nation by intermarriage.
Mr. William Henry White, with whom Mr. A. E. L. Leckie
was on the brief, for intermarried whites.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Article 1 of the treaty of 1846 declared "that the lands now
occupied by the Cherokee Nation shall be secured to the

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE CASES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whole Cherokee people for their common use and benefit,"
and article 4, that these lands "shall be and remain the common property of the whole Cherokee people."
Section 2 of article 1 of the Cherokee constitution (1839)
provided that "the lands of the Cherokee Nation shall remain
common property."
The amendments of 1.866 (Art. 1, see. 2) declared that the
lands of the Cherokee Nation "shall remain common property until the National Council shall request the survey and
allotment of the same, in accordance with the provisions of
article 20 of the treaty of the nineteenth of July, 1866, between the United States and the Cherokee Nation." This
request was subsequently duly made and an allotment is
taking place accordingly.
The intermarried whites have not acquired the right to
share in the lands or funds of the Cherokee Nation by grant
in express terms, but that- right -is claimed in virtue of an
alleged citizenship in the Cherokee Nation derived from intermarriage, under Cherokee laws.
The Nation, under the treaties, possessed the right of local
self government with authority to make such laws as it deemed
necessary for the government and protection of persons and
property within the country, belonging to its people, "or
such persons as have connected themselves with them."
Art. 5, treaty of Dec. 29, 1835, 7 Stat. 478. And section 14 of
article 3 of the Cherokee constitution provided:, "The National Council shall have power to make all laws and regulations which they shall deem necessary and proper for the
good of the Nation, which shall not be contrary to this Constitution."
Prior to 1855 certain white persons had married Cherokees,
which had given rise to serious questions respecting the status
of these persons and the jurisdiction of the Nation over them.
The act of Congress of June 30, 1834 (carried forward into
sections 2134, 2135, 2147 and 2148 of the Revised Statutes),
provided that a citizen of the United States should not go
VOL. ccin-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

into the Indian country without a passport, and that he might
be removed therefrom as an intruder. The promise of the
United States to remove unauthorized citizens from the Nation
appears in the treaties, and even as late as 1893 in the convention by which the Cherokee outlet was ceded to the United
States. But the Council could permit certain white persons
to-reside in the Nation, subject to its laws, though free from
the laws relating to intruders.
In these circumstances the Cherokee act of 1855 "regulating intermarriage with white men" was passed. Its purpose is plain and is disclosed by the preamble in these
words: "Whereas the peace and prosperity of the Cherokee people required that in the enforcement of the laws the
jurisdiction should be exercised over all persons whatever
who may from time to time be privileged to reside within
the territorial limits of this Nation, therefore," etc. The
act was administrative and aimed at subjecting the intermarried whites to the control and dominion of the Cherokee
laws instead of leaving them responsible solely to the laws
and authorities of the Government of the United States. It
contains nothing indicating the intention to confer property
rights on intermarried whites. But in respect of the public
domain, the Court of Claims, in the present case, because of
the opinion in Journeycake's case, 155 U. S. 196, assumed that
the acquisition of citizenship under Cherokee laws carried
the right to share therein, unless forbidden by such legislation. And Mr. Chief Justice Nott, speaking for the court,
said: "In 1874 the rapidly growing value of the Cherokee
lands was becoming perceptible. On the one hand there
were white men who desired to marry into the tribe, and,.
marrying and residing in the Nation, desired the rights and
privileges of citizens; on the other hand there were white
%dventurers desiring to share in the wealth of the Nation,
soon, it was believed, to become available to individual citizens. The public welfare might be benefited by allowing the
one, and most certainly would be; conserved by excluding the

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE CASES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of theCourt.

other. No restriction appeared to exist in the constitution
which would forbid the National Council from, admitting
white men to citizenship upon the condition that they should
not acquire an estate or interest in the communal or common
property of the Nation."
Accordingly, in 1874 the Cherokee National Council adopted
a new code containing sections relating to intermarriage,
which became effective November 1, 1875, and carried a
provision in article XV, section 75, reading as follows:
"Provided, also, That the rights and privileges, herein conferred shall not extend to right of soil or interest in the
vested funds of this Nation, unless such admitted citizen shall
pay into the general funds of the national treasury, a sum of
money to be ascertained and fixed by the National Council
equal to the 'pro rata' share of each native Cherokee, in the
lands and vested wealth of the Nation, estimated at five hundred dollars, and thereafter conform to the constitution of
the Nation, and the laws made or to be made in pursuance
thereof, in which case he shall be deemed a Cherokee to all
intent, and be entitled to all the rights of other Cherokees."
On November 28, 1877, the Council amended this proviso
by striking out all after the words "this Nation" in the second line thereof, so that the' proviso read:
"Provided, also, That the rights and privileges herein conferred shall not extend to right of soil or interest in the vested
funds of this Nation."
The Court of Claims found that the Cherokee law remained
unchanged, in this particular, from 1877 to the date of the
decree. Something is-said :about certain compilations of the
Cherokee laws of 1880 and 1892, which omitted this part of
section 75, but we agree that this omission did not operate to
change the existing law, as the acts providing for the compilations did not provide that they shouild be effective as laws
of the Nation, and where an error was committed by the compiler the original law as duly passed and approved must
prevail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Thus it is seen that -the privilege of paying $500 into the
Cherokee treasury and becoming thereby entitled to "all the
rights of other Cherokees" existed only from November 1,
1875, to November 28, 1877.. Assuming that the National
Council had authority under the Cherokee constitution of
.1839 and the amendments of 1866 to confer on white -inter.married citizens the privilege of purchasing a right in the
soil and funds of the Nation, that privilege was withdrawn
in two years and, according to the facts found, was only
availed of by two persons, neither of whom was an individual
party to the suit. No right in the Nation's property flowed
from the Cherokee citizenship act, which merely subjected
the white m'nn to the jurisdiction of the Nation, but that
right resulted from express grant and the payment of a price.
As to the Delawares and Shawnees, their participation was
specifically provided for by convention, approved by the
United States, and depended upon payments made. As to
the Freedmen, their participation in property distribution
was secured by the terms of the treaty of 1866 (the result of
the civil :war), and of the constitutional amendments thereupon adopted. The Court of Claims. referred to them thus
(p. 441): "'These constitutional amendments were brought.
about by the -action of the United States at the close of the
civil war in dictating that the slaves or freed persons of color
in the Cherokee country should not only be admitted to the
rights of citizenship, but to an equal participation in the
communal or common property of the Cherokees. The Cherokees seem to have veiled their humiliation by these geneial
declarations of the persons who should be, taken and deemed
to be citizens. But, be that as it may, the overthrow of the
Cherokee Nation and the treaty of peace, 1866, and the terms
dictated by the United States, whereby their former slaves
were made their political equals and the common property
of the Cherokees was -to be shared in with their servants and
dependants, was in effect a revolution. The constitutional
amendment quoted was simply declaratory of the new order

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE CASES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of things. It is not necessarily prospective, and does not impose limitations upon the legislative power with regard to the
naturalization or future adoption of aliens as citizens. Under
the policy of the Cherokees citizenship and communal ownership were distinct things. The citizen who annually received
an annuity derived from the communal fund held by* the
United States, and the citizen who never received a dollar
from the fund or never so much as thought of receiving it,
formed a concrete object lesson in constitutional raw not
easily effaced from the common mind."
Section 5 of the constitution of 1839 was as follows:
"SEC. 5. No-person shall be eligible to a seat in the-National
Council, but a free Cherokee male citizen, who shall have
attained the age of twenty-five years.
"The descendants of Cherokee men by all free women,
except the African race, whose parents may have been living
together as man and wife according to the customs of this,
Nation, shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges of
this Nation, as well as the posterity of the Cherokee women
by all free men. No person who is of negro or mulatto parentage, either by the father's or mother's side, shall be eligible
to hold any office of profit, honor or trust under this government.
"SEc. 6. The electors and members of the National Council
shall in all cases, except those of treason, felony or breach of
the peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance
at elections and at the National Council in going to and returning."
The amendment of section 5, in 1866, reads:
"SEC. 5. No person shall be eligible to a seat in the National
Council but a male citizen of the Cherokee Nation, who shall
have attained the age of twenty-five years and who shall have
been a bona fide resident of the district in which he may be
elected at least six months immediately preceding such election. All native-born Cherokees, all Indians and whites
legally members of the Nation by adoption, and all freedmen

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of tie Court.

203 ,U. S.

who have been liberated by voluntary act of their former
owners, or by law, as well as free colored persons who were in
the country at -the commencement of the rebellion and are
residents: therein, or who may return within six months from
the nineteenth day of July, 1866, and their, descendants who
reside within the limits of the.Cherokee Nation, shall be taken
and deemed to be citizens of the Cherokee Nation."
We cannot accept the view that this amendment amounted
to a grant of property rights, or operated to enlarge the authority of the National Council in respect of the readmission
of former members of tho -Nation.
The amendment (found in that part of the Constitution in
respect to officers and elections) must be taken'as a whole, and
related to eligibility to a seat in the National Council and not
to property rights. The contention that the words "citizens
of the Cherokee Nation'! should be construed as relating to
the constitutional, provision of 1839 that the lands of the
Nation should be common property, is without merdt in view
of the provisions themselvds:
By section 2 of article 1 of the constitution of 1839 it was
provided that "whenever any citizen shall remove with his
effects out of the limits of this Nation, and becomes a citizen
of any other government; all his rights and privileges as a
citizen of this Nation shall cease: provided, nevertheless, that
the National Council, shall have power to readmit, by law,
to all the rights of citizenship, any such person or persons
who may, at any time, desire to return to the Nation, on
memorializing the National Council for such readmission."
By its terms this referred to those who had been citizens, and
their readmission gave no rights not originally possessed, and
this was true under the amendments of 1866. Many special
Cherokee laws demonstrate that the Council did not venture
to assume nor desire to assume the power to impart to the
white adopted citizen other than civil and political rights.
For instance, the acts of 1878, readmitting Greenway and
his children, and Allen and his family "to all the rights and

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE CASES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

privileges of citizens of the Cherokee Nation" specifically
provided that no rights should be acquired except such as
attach to white men, "adopted citizens of the Cherokee Nation."
The acts relating to intermarriage with whites contained
many restrictions, but by the act in respect of the intermarriage of Cherokees with other Indians no such restrictions
were imposed. Cherokee act of Nov. 27, 1880. That act provided that the marriage should be contracted according to the
law regulating marriages between "our own citizens," and
declared that such Indian "shall be and is hereby deemed a
Cherokee to all intents and purposes and entitled to the rights
of other Cherokees." There is no such language in the acts
relating to intermarried whites.
The treaty of 1866, between the United States and the
Cherokee Nation, provided as to the former slaves, that they
should be free and they "and their descendants shall have all
the rights of native Cherokees."
Article 15 of the same treaty, after providing for the settlement of friendly Indians amongst the Cherokees and the manner in which the latter shall be paid therefor, then stipulates
"that they shall be incorporated into and thereafter remain
a part of the Cherokee Nation on equal terms in every respect
with native Cherokees." When the Delawares were about to
be moved into the Cherokee country as friendly Indians, it
was stipulated in the agreement that "on the fulfilment by
the Delawares of the foregoing stipulations, all the members
of the tribe registered as abdve provided, shall become members of the Cherokee Nation, with the same rights and immunities and the same participation (and no other) in the
national funds as native Cherokees

.

.

.

and the children

thereafter born of such Delawares so incorporated into the
Cherokee Nation shall in all i espects be regarded as native Cherokees." Later when an agreement was made with the Shawnees, after the amount of money to be paid was provided for,
the rights of Shawnees were defined as follows: "and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U.

the said Shawnees shall be incorporated into and ever after
remain a part of the Cherokee Nation on equal terms in every
respect and with all the privileges and immunities of native
citizens of said Nation-."
These intermarried whites. show no grant of equal rights
as members of the Cherokee Nation by treaty or otherwise,
nor have they (excepting the two individuals heretofore
referred to) paid any sum into the Nation's treasury for a pro
rata share of its money and lands.
The Delawares, the Shawnees and the Freedmen acquired
their property rights by the express words of treaties, but the
intermarried whites cannot point out any such in their favor.
Doubtless because of this they have heretofore asserted no
claim, although the Cherokee courts were open to them to do
so, and have allowed repeated payments of money to be made
to every other citizen without question.
The distinction butween different classes of citizens was
recognized by the Cherokees in the differences in their intermarriage law, as applicable to the whites and to the Indian:,
of other tribes; by the provision in the intermarriage law
that a white man intermarried with an Indian by blood
acquires certain rights as a citizen, but no provision that if
he marries a Cherokee citizen not of Indian blood he shall
be regarded as a citizen at all; and by the provision that if,
once having married an Indian by blood, he marries the
second time . citizen not by blood, he loses all of his rights
as a citizen. And the same distinction between citizens as
such and citizens with property rights has also been r6cognized by Congress in enactments relating to other Indians
than the Five Civilized Tribes. Act August 9, 1888, 25 Stat.
392, c. 818; act May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 96, c. 182; act June 7,
1897, 30 Stat. 90, c. 3.
In Whitmire v. Cherokee Nation, 30 C. Cl. 138, 152, the
Court of Claims said: "Here it should be noted that when
the treaty was made there had long been a peculiar class of
citizens in the Cherokee country-white men who became

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE. CASES.
203 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

citizens by intermarriage." And, after quoting the proviso
to section 75, art. 15, of the Cherokee Code of 1874, the court
added: "The idea, therefore, existed both in the minds and
in the laws of the Cherokee people,. that citizenship did not
necessarily extend to or invest in the citizen a personal or individual interest in what the constitution termed the 'common
property,' 'the lands of the Cherokee Nation.'
In Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 488, this
court, in respect of certain acts of Congress, observed:
"It may be remarked that the legislation seems to recognize, especially tle act of June 28, 1898, a distinction between
admission to citizenship merely and the distribution of property to be subsequently made, as if there might be circumstances under which the right to a share in the latter would
not necessarily follow from the concession of the former."
-Referring to this, the Court of Claims said in its opinion in
the present case, 40 C. Cl. 411, 442:
"It cannot be supposed for a moment that Congress intended by this legislation to take away from some of the
Cherokee people property which was constitutionally theirs
or to confer upon white citizens property which they were
not legally entitled to have. The term 'citizens' in these
statutes of the United States must be construed to mean
those citizens who were constitutionally or legally entitled
to share in the allotment of the lands."
The doctrine is familiar that the language, of a statute is
to be interpreted in the light of the particular matter in hand
and the object sought to be accomplished as manifested by
other parts of the act, and the words used may be qualified
by their surroundings and connections.
In accepting the conclusion' of the Court of Claims in this
regard we, nevertheless, deem it proper to somewhat consider
the congressional legislation relied on by the claimants.
The act of Congress of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 716, c. 1375,
ratified by the Cherokee Nation, August 7, 1902, and often
called the Cherokee agreement, contained these sections:

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

"SEC. 25. The roll of citizens of the Cherokee Nation shall
be made as of September first, nineteen hundred and two, and
the names of all persons then living and entitled to enrollment
on that date shall be placed on said roll by the Commission
to the Five Civilized Tribes.
"SEC. 26. The naeis of all persons living on the first day

of September, nineteen hundred and two, entitled to be enrolled as provided in section twenty-five hereof, shall be
placed upon the roll made by said Commission, and no child
born thereafter to a citizen, and no white person who has
intermarried with a Cherokee citizen since the sixteenth day
of December, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, shall be entitled to enrollment or to participate in the distribution of
the tribal property of the Cherokee Na'tion.
"SEC. 27. Such rolls shall in all other respects be made in

strict compliance with the provisions of section twenty-one
of the act of Congress approved June twenty-eighth, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight (Thirtieth Statutes, page four hundrecl and ninety-five), and the act of Congress approved
May thirty-first, nineteen hundred (Thirty-first Statutes, page
two hundred and twenty-one).
"SEC. 28. No person whose name appears upon the roll

made by the Dawes Commission as a citizen or freedman of
any other tribe shall be enrolled as a citizen of the Cherokee
Nation.
"SEe. 29. For the purpose of expediting the enrollment of
the Cherokee citizens and the allotment of lands as herein
provided, the said Commission shall, from time to time, and
as soon as practicable, forward to the Secretary of the Interior
lists upon which shall be placed the names of those persons
found by the.Commission to be entitled to enrollment. The
lists thus prepared, when approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, shall constitute a part and parcel of the final roll of
citizens of. the Cherokee tribe, upon which allotment of land
and distribution of other tribal property shall be made. When
there shall have been submitted to and approved by the

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE: CASES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of the Interior lists embracing the names of all
those lawfully entitled to enrollment, the roll shall be deemed
complete. The roll so prepared shall be made in quadruplicate, one to be deposited with the Secretary of the Interior, one
with the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, one with the principal chief of the Cherokee Nation, and one to remain with
the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes.
"SEC. 30. During the months of September and October,

in the year nineteen hundred and two, the Commission to the
Five Civilized Tribes may receive applications for enrollment
of such infant children as may have been born to recognized
and enrolled citizens of the Cherokee Nation oni or before the
first day of September, nineteen hundred and two, but the
application of no person whomsoever for enrollment- shall be
received after the thirty-first. day of October, nineteen hundred and two.
"SEc. 31. No person whose name does not appear upon. the
roll prepared as herein provided shall be entitled to in any
manner participate in the distribution of the common property of the Cherokee tribe, and those whose names appear
thereon shall participate in the manner set forth in this act:
Provided, That no allotment of land or other tribal property
shall be made to any person, or to the heirs of any -person,
whose name is on said roll and who. died prior to the first
day of September, nineteen hundred and two. The right.of
such person to any interest in the lands or other tribal property shall be deemed to 'have become extinguished and to
have passed to the tribe in general upon his death before said
date, and any person or persons who may conceal the death
of anyone on said roll as aforesaid for the purpose of profiting by said concealment, and who' shall knowingly receive
any portion of any land or other tribal property or of the proceeds so arising from any -allotment prohibited by this section, shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and shall be proceeded against as may be -provided in other cases of felony
and the penalty for this offense shall be confinement at hard

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

labor for a period of not less than one year nor more than
five years, and in addition thereto a forfeiture to the Cherokee
Nation of the lands, other tribal property, and proceeds so
obtained."
It thus appears that the roll of citizens of the Cherokee
Nation was to be made up as of September 1, 1902, of the
persons then living and entitled to enrollment on that date;
that all such persons should be placed upon the roll, and
that (section 29) on the lists to be finally approved by the
Secretary of the Interior there should be placed only the
names of those persons found to be entitled to enrollment.
In all other respects the roll was to be made in compliance
with section 21 of the act of Congress of June 28, 1898, and
of the act of Congress of May 31,-1900.
Section 21 provided: "That in making rolls of citizenship
of several tribes, as required by law, the Commission to the
Five Civilized Tribes is authorized and directed to take the
roll of Cherokee citizens of eighteen hundred and eighty (not
including freedmen) as the only roll intended to be confirmed
by this and preceding acts of Congress, and to enroll all persons now living whose names are found on said roll,
with such intermarried white persons as may ba entitled to
citizenship under Cherokee laws." The roll of 1880, made by
the Cherokees, was a census roll, and its confirmation was not
intended to create any rights which citizens of the Cherokee
Nation had not before enjoyed, but merely to furnish the
basis for making up the roll of citizens. Section 21 was in
reality a statement that no previous act of Congress was
intended to confirm any other roll of the Cherokee Nation.
The act of May 31, 1900, 31 Stat. c. 598, pp. 221, 236; provided: "That said Commission shall continue to exercise all
authority heretofore conferred on it by law. But it shall not
receive, consider, or make any record of any application of
any person for enrollment as a member of any tribe in Indian
Territory who-has not been a recognized citizerr. thereof, and
duly and lawfully enrolled or admitted as such, and its refusal

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE. CASES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of such applicafions shall be final when approved by the Secretary of the Interior." Section 31 of the act of July 1, 1,902,
says that no person whose name does not appear on the roll
made by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes ."shall
be entitled to in any manner participate in the distribution of
the common property of the Cherokee tribe, and those whose
names appear thereon shall participate in the manner set
forth in this act." In other words, the roll must be made up
of citizens who under the laws of the Cherokee Nation were
entitled to participation in the distribution of the common
property of the Cherokee tribes.
The concluding words of section 21, "with such intermarried white persons as may be entitled to citizenship under
Cherokee laws," emphatically indicate that Congress had the
Indian citizen in mind in- all that went before and limited
enrollment of white persons to such as might be entitled to
citizenship under Cherokee laws.
Counsel for claimants speak of the act of 1902 as a "treaty,"
but it is only an 'act of Congress and can have no greater
effect. It is a singular commentary on the situation that the
majority of the native Cherokees voted against its acceptance,
which was carried by the vote of the whites. The suggestion
is wholly inadmissible that they could vote themselves an
interest in the property of the Cherokee people, including a
share in the money paid in by the Delawares and the Shawnees, and become thereby wards of this Government.
Referring to section 26 of the act of 1902, which declares
that no white person intermarried since December 16, 1895,
shall be entitled • to enrollment or to participate in the distribution of the tribal property of the Cherokee Nation, and to
an act of the Cherokee Council to the same effect, approved
December 16, 1895, counsel contend that the act of Congress
shows that there was a class of persons who, having married
prior to December 16, 1895, were to be enrolled, embracing
all lawfully married according to, the law of the Nation, and
were to participate in the distribution of the tribal property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

The doctrine that the denial of a right is the grant of a right
is a poor basis for a grant of land. Not a single word of
the act intimates that these intermarried persons have or are
to have any interest in the property of the Nation, and to
hold that because the act of 1902 declares that white persons
intermarrying after 1895 should acquire no property rights
the Indians in accepting the act conceded property rights to
all who intermarried prior thereto, would put a construction
on the act utterly inconsistent with the settled rule that as
between the whites and the Indians the laws are to be construed most favorably to the latter.
After the decision in Journeycake's case, 155 U. S. 196, and
in that of Whitmire, 30 C. Cl. 138, 180, the Cherokee National Council passed the act of December 16, 1895, amending certain sections of the compiled laws, from which the
provisions of the act of November, 1877, which denied intermarrying whites any right in Cherokee property, had been
erroneously omitted, by reenacting the same, but tlis only
evidenced the determination to prevent the encroachment of
the whites upon the property rights of the Cherokee people.
The act was clearly passed, out of abundant caution and was
quite unnecessary in view of the fact that the act of 1877 remained in force, as was found by the Court of Claims.
We are dealing with the right of enrollment so as to entitle
the persons enrolled to participate in the distribution of the
lands and vested funds of, the Cherokee Nation, and not with
.questions arising in respect of improvements on the public
domain. As to, improvements they seem to have been treated
as those of a tenant who had made them under an agreement
that they should remain his. Any citizen of the Nation
could use the public domain and it is not asserted that the'
intermarried whites failed to obtain their share of such use,
but because they have enjoyed that benefit, free from tax or
burden, is-no reason for giving them a share in the lands and
vested funds, which has never been granted' to them and for
which they have never paid.

CHEROKEE INTERMARRIAGE. CASES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We concur in the conclusions of the Court of Claims, including the disposition of the particular contention presented
in appeal No. 128.
This involved certain claimants, before the court, known
as "married out and abandoned whites," who alleged that
they became citizens of the Cherokee Nation by intermarriage, but conceded that they had since married persons
having no rights of Cherokee citizenship by blood, or had
abandoned their Cherokee wives. They contended that they
could not be deprived of the rights and privileges acquired
by intermarriage save by proceedings in the nature -of office
found. As to this the Court of Claims said (p. 444):
"These intermarried whites are not grantees or devisees
seized and in possession of land, occupying the position of
defendants. They occupy the contrary positin-of plaintiffs
seeking to recover money-and it, is obligatory upon them
to establish their right to it. To say that a white man can
share in the property of the Cherokees for the reason that at
one time in his life he was the husband of a Cherokee woman,
and to say that this court, or the Secretary of the Interior,
must hold that he is still the husband of a Cheroke woman
because the contrary has not been established in another proceeding, is an appeal to technicality which the court cannot
uphold. These claimants, like other plaintiffs, must prove
their case; asserting a present right, they must establish present conditions. The laws and usages of the Cherokees, their
earliest history, the fundamental principles of their national
policy, their constitution and statutes, all show that citizenship rested on blood or marriage; that the man who would
assert citizenship must establish marriage; that when marriage ceased (with a special reservation ii favor of widows or
widowers) citizenship ceased; that when an intermarried
white married a person having no rights of Cherokee citizenship by blood it was conclusive evidence that the tie which
bound him to the Cherokee people was severed and the very
basis of his citizenship obliterated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

"The Cherokee statute which has been cited (Laws of 1892,

section 669) gives a proceeding in the nature of office found,
but, nevertheless, is confirmatory of the views hereirbefore
expressed. It relates to cases where the Cherokee government
takes the initiative to accomplish a purpose; that is to say,
where an intermarried white man- has forfeited his rights of
citizenship in the Nation by acts which declare such forfeiture,
'and the Nation requires his removal beyond the limits of its
territory,' this proceeding must be resorted to, to be followed
by a call on the United States Indian agent 'to remove such
a white man.' It is in principle precisely like the commorlaw procedure of office found, and exists for the same reason--that the Government may exercise a right dependent
upo only the alienage of a person living within its territory
presumably a citizen."
Decree affirmed.

MATTER OF MORAN, PETITIONER.
No. 8, Originai.

Argued October 15, 1906.-Decided November 5, 1906.

Where the order of the court having authority to designate the place of
trial for a newly organized county in Oklahoma is as precise as circumstances permit, the fact that it merely names the town, there being no
county or court buildings at the tin- of trial, does not affect the jurisdiction of the court, where it does not appear that the party complaining lost any opportunities by reason of no building being named.
Acts of the legislature of Oklahoma are not laws of the United States within
the meaning of § 753, Rev. Stat.
The Fifth Amendment requiring the presentment or indictment of a grand
jury does not take up unto itself the local law as to how the. grand jury
shall be made up, and raise the latter to a constitutional requirement.
Under § 10 of the Organic Act of Oklahoma of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 85,
the place of trial of a crime committed in territory not embraced in
any organized county is in the county to which such territory shall be
attached at the time of trial, although it might have been attached to
another county when the crime was committed.

