REARICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in, Error.

in a written opinion. The necessary result of the ruling that
the court had not jurisdiction of the writ of error was to determine that the trial court was the final court where the questions presented by the writ could be decided; and, hence, the
writ of error should have been directed to that court. Missolfri, K. & T. Ry. v. Elliott, 184 U. S. 530, 539.
Writ of error dismissed.

REARICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ElRRORl TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE

STATE OF PENNSYL-

VANIA.
No. 47.

Argued October 18, 19. 1906.-Decided December 17, 1906.

Where orders are given for goods sold in a State by an agent of a person
employed to solicit them in another State, and the purchaser is not bound
to pay for the goods until delivery and unless according to sample, the
goods sent specifically to the customer in fulfillment of such orders are,
until. actually delivered, within the protection of the commerce clause
of the Constitution, and a municipal ordinance requiring a license fee
for the solicitation of orders for delivering goods not of the parties' own
manufacture is void as an interference with interstate -commerce against
such an agent..

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Cam pbell M. Voorhees for plaintiff in error, submitted:
It is a principle established beyond controversy that the
legotiation of sales of goods that are in another State for
the purpose of introducing them into the State in which the
negotiation is made is interstate commerce, and is protected
from local interference, burdens, or tax, by clause 3, ยง 8,
Art. I, Constitution of the United States, which provides that
Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several, States and with the Indian

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

203 U. S.

tribes. Robbins v. Taxing District of Shelby County, 120
U. S. 489; Corson v. Maryland, 120 U. S. 502; Leloup v. Mobile,
127 U. S. 640; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; Stoutenburg v.
Hennick, 129 U. S. 140; McCall v. California, 136 U. S._ 104;
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289.
The delivery of goods to a buyer at his residence in one
State, that have been sent in pursuance of contract, by a
seller in another State, is interstate commerce and subject to
no state nor local burdens. The right tb solicit orders implies the obligation and the right to deliver the goods in the
manner called for by the contracts; and the means by which
the delivery is made cannot be controlled by the States.
Bounnan v. RailroadCo., 125 U. S. 465, 479; State Freight Tax,
15 Wall. 232, 275; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Caldwell v.
North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; N. & W. R. R. Co. v. Sims, 191
U. S. 441; American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133..
The ordinance in question is unconstitutional and void
as discriminating between persons and denying the equal
protection of the laws. It gives rights, privileges and immunities to some which it denies to others. It is in violation
of the last clause of ยง 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. State
v. Whitcomb, 99 N. W. Rep. 468; State v. Wagner, 69 Minnesota, 205; Flatau v. Mansfield, 14 Ohio C. C. 596; Conolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
Mr. Harry S. Knight and Mr. S. P. Wolverton for the defendant in error, submitted:
The facts bear every test of a sale in Pennsylvania and none
of a sale in Ohio. The sale did not take place until the goods
were delivered by Rearick at the residences of the several
purchasers, and he, Rearick, received the money therefor.
Rearick was therefore selling goods at retail from house to
house in Sunbury and was engaged solely in intrastate commerce, ind, even though delivery was made in the original
package, Rearick and his goods would, nevertheless, under

REARICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the decisions in Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; and Hinson
v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148; and other cases, be subject to a general
state tax. Commonwealth v. Holstine, 132 Pennsylvania, 357;
Commonwealth v. Garbracht, 96 Pennsylvania, 449; Commonwealth v. Hess, 14& Pennsylvania, 98.
But if Rearick, the plaintiff in error; at the time of delivering the goods was engaged in interstate commerce, still the
Sunbury ordinance in question was not al unconstitutional
regulation of interstate commerce; and did not violate Clause 3,
ยง 8, Art. I, of the Federal Constitution, providing that Congress' shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States. Cases supra and
American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 518; Emert v.
Missouri, 156 U. S. 296; Brown v. Houstin, 114 U. S. 622.
The Sunbury ordinance in question does not violate ยง 1 of
the Fourteenth Amendment by discriminating in favor of
producers. American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179
U. S. 89.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here upon a writ of error to the Superior
Court of Pennsylvania, an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State having been disallowed by the last-named court. The
Superior Court affirmed a conviction of the plaintiff in error
for violating an ordinance of the Borough of Sunbury, which
made it unlawful to solicit orders for, sell, or. deliver, at retail,
either on the streets or by travelling from house to house,
foreign or domestic goods, not of the parties' own manufacture
or production, without a license for which a large fee was
required. 26 Pa. Sup. Ct..Rep. 384. In the Court of Quarter
Sessions, where the plaintiff in error was convicted the case
was heard upon an agreed statement of facts. Upon these
facts the plaintiff in error asked for a ruling that his acts were
done in carrying on interstate commerce and that the ordinance
was void as to him, under Clause 3, Section 8) Article I, of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Constitution, the commerce clause; and saved his rights. The
Fourteenth Amendment also was relied upon, but it is unnecessary to state details concerning that.
The following is a shortened statement of the facts agreed.
An Ohio corporation employed an agent to solicit in Sunbury
retail orders to the company for groceries. When the company had received a large number of such orders it filled them
at its place of business in Columbus, Ohio, by puttingup the
objects of the several orders in distinct packages, and forwarding them to the defendant by. rail, addressed to him
"IFor A. B.," the customer, with the number of the order also.
on the package for further identification. The company
ultimately kept the orders, but it kept no book accounts with
the customers, looking only to the defendant. The defendant
alone had authority to receive the goods from the railroad,
and when he received them he delivered them, as was his
duty, to the customers, for cash paid to him. He then sent
the money to the corporation. The customer had the right
to refuse the goods if not equal to the sample shown to him
when he gave the order. In that or other cases of non-delivery
the defendant returned the goods to Columbus. No shipments were made to the defendant. except to fill such orders,
and no deliveries were made by him except to the parties
named on the packages. In the case of brooms, they were
tagged and marked like the other articles, according to the
number ordered, but they then were tied together into bundles
of about a dozen, wrapped up conveniently for shipment.
The defendant had no license, but relied upon the invalidity
of the ordinance, as we have said.
If the acts of the plaintiff in error were (lone in the course
of commerce between several States, the law is established
that his request for a ruling was right, and that he should
have been discharged. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing. District, 120 U. S. 489, 497; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Caldwell v. North Carolina,187 U. S. 622. It will be seen from the
insertion of the statement concerning the brooms that a ground

REARICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

relied upon by the prosecution to avoid that conclusion Was that
the goods, or at least this part of them, were not in the original
packages when delivered, and that therefore the case did not
fall within the decisions last cited, but rather within Austin v.
Tennessee, 179 U. S. 143, May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496,
and Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261. In other words,
it was contended that the brooms before they were sold had
become mingled with, or part of, the common mass of goods
in the State, aiid so subject to the local law. But the doctrine
as to original packages -primarily concerns the right to sell
witllin the prohibiting or taxing State goods coming into it
from outside. When the goods-have been sold before arrival
the limitations that still may be found to the power of the
State will be due, generally, at least, to other reasons, and we
shall consider whether the limitations may not exist, irrespective of that doctrine, in some cases where there is no
executed sale. Hence the prosecution, whatever its assumption on the point last mentioned, sought to show that there
was no sale until the goods were delivered and the cash paid
for them. The Superioi Court contented itself with the suggestion that the contract would have been satisfied by the
delivery of article's corresponding to sample, although bought
at the next door. The argument submitted to us goes farther,
and affirms that the order was not accepted and did not'bind
the corporation until the delivery took place.
The answer to the latter of the two positions just stated is
simple. The fair meaning-of the agreed fact that the orders
were given to agents employed to solicit them, is that the
company offered the goods and that the orders were accept-,
ances of offers from the other side. If there were the slightest
. reason to doubt that the contracts were made with the company through its authorized agent at the moment when the
orders were given, which we do not perceive that there is,
certainly the contrary could not be assumed in -order to sustain a conviction. It is for the prosecution to make out its
case. We may mention here in parenthesis that of course it

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

does not matter to the question before us that the contract
was made in Pennsylvania. Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.
289. The other suggestion, that the company would have
been free to deliver any articles equal to sample, as well if
bought in Pennsylvania as if coming from Ohio, of course
assumes that there was a contract. With regard to this argument it lnight be an interesting question whether the shipments described amounted to authorized appropriations of
the goods to the contracts, notwithstanding the fact that the
deliveries were to be only for cash; but we are not required
to go into, such niceties. The decisions already in the books'
go as far as it is necessary for us to go in order to decide this
case.
"Commerce among the several States" is a practical conception not drawn from the "witty diversities" (Yelv., 33)
of the law of sales. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S.
375, 398, 399. The brooms were specifically appropriated to
specific contracts, in a practical, if not in a technical, sense.
Under such circumstances it is plain that, wherever might have
been the title, the transport 'of the brooms for the purpose of
fulfilling the contracts was protected commerce. In Brennan
v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, pictures were sold by sample, as
the brooms Were here, and although the pictures were consigned to the purchasers directly, the railroad collecting the
price, there was no discussion of the question whether the. title
had passed. In American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133,
143, that question was referred to only to be waived. In
Caldwell v. 'North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622, the pictures were
consigned to the defendant, an agent, as here, with the additional facts that the pictures and frames were sent in large
packages, which were opened by the agent on their arrival,
the pictures, then for- the first time, were put -into
and
their that
proper frames, and, for all' that appears,
then for the
first time appropriated to specific purchasers. In the court
below all the judges agreed that the title did not pass until
delivery. 127 N, Car. 521, 526, 527. This court intimated

REARICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nothing to the contrary. On the special verdict it well might
be that the sale was by sample, as in Brennan v. Titusville.
It was decided that the intervention of an agent made no
difference in the result. The Superior Court distinguished that
case as one that necessarily involved interstate commerce
be'ause it called for the skill of the seller, but no such fact
appears in the case or was referred to as a ground of decision,
and there is no sufficient warrant for assuming it to be true.
Some argument was made, to be sure, that even if the defendant was engaged in interstate commerce when he delivered
the goods, still the ordinance bound him. American Steel &
Wire Co. v. ,peed, 192 U. S.500, was especially relied upon.
But that decision did not modify the cases that we have cited.
It dealt with a case where a mass of nails and iron wire was
collected at Memphis from other States, by a manufacturer,
for all purposes; some of the goods to be sold on the spot, some
ultimately to be forwarded to purchasers in other States, but
no. package being consigned to or intended for any special
customer, or free from the chance of being sold by a new
bargain in Tennessee. Under such circumstances the goods
were liable to taxation in that State. The distinction between
that case and the present does not need further'; emphasis.
In view of the many decisions upon ,the matter we deem
further argument unnecessary to show that the judgment
below was wrong.
Judgment reversed.

VOL. ccT-32

