ST. MARY'S PETROLEUM CO. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
203 U. S.

183

Statement .f the Case.

abolish the general distinction, at common law, between an
appeal and a writ of error,' may be supplemented by saying
that it was no purpose of the act of 1891 to change the forms
of remedies theretofore pursued. In re Lennon, 150 U. S. 393;
Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651; Gonzales v. Cunningham,
164 U. S. 612."
Writ of error dismissed.

ST. :IARY'S FRANCO-AMERICAN PETROLEUM COMPANY v. WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 98. Submitted November 5. 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.
A State has power to regulate its own creations and, a fortiori, foreign corporations permitted to transact business within its borders. The act of West
Virginia, putting all non-resident domestic corporations having. their
places of business and works outside the State, and all foreign corporations
coming into the State, on the same footing in respect to service of process,
and making the state auditor their attorney in fact to accept process, is a
reasonable classification and not unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the laws,: because that provision does not apply to all corporations; nor does it deprive such corporations, without due process of law, of
their liberty of contract; nor does the requirement that they pay such
auditor an annual fee of ten dollars for services as such attorney amount to
a taking of property without due process of law.

THis is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme

Court of Appeals of West Virginia awarding a peremptory
writ of mandamus, commanding the St. Mary's Franco-American Petroleum Company, by power of attorney, duly executed,
acknowledged and filed in the office of the Auditor for'the State
of West Virginia, "to appoint ,said auditor and ,his successors
in office, attorney in fact to accept service of process and notice

in this State for said-St. Mary's Franco-American Petroleufii

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

Company, and by the same instrument -to declare its consent
that service of any process or notice in this State on said
attorney in fact, or his acceptance thereof indorsed thereon,
shall be equivalent for all purposes to, and shall be and constitute, due and legal service upon the said St. Mary's FrancoAmerican Petroleum Company, and that the petitioner recover.
from the respondent, her costs about the prosecution of her
petition in this court in this behalf expended."
it was agreed by the parties that no rule to show cause need
be issued on the petition for mandamus, nor any alternative
writ, but that the petition might stand as such writ and the
case be determined on demurrer thereto, which was filed.
The petition, among other things, averred that the St.
Mary's Company was "a nonresident domestic corporation,
organized, chartered, existing and carrying on its corporate
business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of West
Virginia, but having its principal office and place of business
and chief works in the city of Lima, in the State Qf Ohio;"
that the corporation "was organized, and now exists, by virtue
of a charter issued to it by the Secretary of State of the State of
West Virginia on the 18th day of January, 1902;" and that
"on the 17th day of February, 1902, the said defendant corporation, by power of attorney, duly and legally executed, filed
and recorded, appointed one'Win. M. 0. Dawson, a resident of
the, county of Kanawha in the State of West Virginia, to accept
service on behalf of said corporation, and as a person upon
whom service may be had of any process or notice, and to make
returns of its property for taxation."
At the time . the company was incorporated, sec. 8 of chap.
53 of the state code read:
"Where the legislature has the right to alter or repeal the
charter or certificate of incorporation heretofore granted to
any joint stock company, or to alter or repeal any law relating
to such company, nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construe 4t to surrender or impair such right. And 'he right
is hereby reserved to the legislature to alter any charter or

ST. MARY'S PETROLEUM CO. v. WEST VIRGINIA. 185
203-U. S.

Statement of the Case.

certificate of incorporation hereafter granted to a joint stock
company, and to alter or repeal any law applicable to such
company. But in no case shall such alteration or repeal affect
the right of the creditors of the company to have its assets
applied to the discharge of its liabilities, or of its stockholders
to have the surplus, if any, which may remain after discharging its liabilities and the expenses of winding up its affairs,
distributed among themselves in proportion to their respective
interests."
And sec. 24 of chap. 54:
"Every such corporation having its principal office or place
of business in this State shall, within thirty days after organization, by power of attorney duly executed, appoint some
person residing in the county in this State wherein its business
is conducted, to accept service on behalf of said corporation,
and upon whom service may be had of any process or notice,
and to make such return for and on behalf of said corporation.
to the assessor of the county or district wherein its business is
carried on, as is required by the forty-first section of the twentyninth chapter of the code. Every such corporation having its
principal office or place of business outside this State shall,
within thirty days after organizing, by power of attorney duly
executed, appoint some person residing in this State to accept
service on behalf of said corporation, and upon whom service
may he had of any process or notice, and to make return of its
property in this State for taxation as aforesaid. The said
power of attorney shall be recorded in the office of the clerk
of the county court of the county, in which the attorney resides, and filed and recorded in the office of the Secretary of
State, and the admission to record of such power of attorney
shall be deemed evidence of compliance with the requirements
of this section. Corporations heretofore organized may comply with said requirements at any time within three months
after the passage of this act. Any corporation failing to com:ply with said requirements withih six months after the passage
of this act, shall forfeit not less than two hundred, nor more

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

than five hundred dollars, and shall, moreover, during the
continuance of such failure, be deemed a nonresident of this
State, and its property, real and personal, shall be liable to
attachment in like manner as tf e property of nonresident
defendants; any corporation failing so to comply within twelve
months after the passage of this act shall, by reason of such
failure, forfeit its charter to the State, and the provisions of
section eight, chapter twenty, acts one thousand eight hundred
and eighty-five, relative to notice and publication, shall apply
thereto."
On the 22d day of February, 1905, the legislature of West
Virginia passed an act, chap. 39 of the. Acts of 1905, which is
as follows:
"SEC. 1. The auditor of this State shall be, and he is hereby
constituted, the attorney in fact for and on behalf of every
foreign corporation doing business in this State, and of every
nonresident domestic corporation. Every such corporation
shall, by power of attorney, duly executed, acknowledged and
filed in the auditor's office of this State, appoint said auditor,
and his successors in office, attorney in fact to accept service of
process and notice in this State for such corporations, and by
the same instrument it shall declare its consent that service of
any process or notice in this State on said attorney in fact, or
his acceptance thereof indorsed thereon, shall be equivalent
for all purposes to, and shall be and constitute, due and legal
service upon said corporation.
"SEc. 2. Such foreign or nonresident domestic corporation
shall at the time of taking out its charter, or procuring it9
authority to do business in this State, as the case may be, pay
to the auditor as its said attorney ten dollars for his services as
such for the then current. year ending on the 30th day of April
next ensuing; and on or before the first day of May, for each
year, such corporation shall pay to said auditor the like sum
of ten dollars for his services as such attorney. And all such
corporations as have heretofore taken out charters, or procured
authority to do business in this State, shall for the fiscal year

ST. MARY'S PETROLEUM CO. v. WEST VIRGINIA. 187
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

commencing on the first day of May, nineteen hundred and
five, pay the sum of ten dollars to the auditor as the fee for
such attorney to receive service of process, and annually thereafter a like sum, and such corporation shall not be required to
pay any fee to the person "who may have been heretofore appointed its attorney to receive service of process. All moneys
received by the auditor under this chapter shall belong to the
St.te, and be by him immediately paid into the state treasury.
The auditor shall keep in a well bound book in his office a true
and accurate account of all moneys so received and paid over
to him.
"SEC. 3. The post office address of such corporation shall
be filed with the power of-attorney, and there shall be filed with
the auditor from time to time statements of any changes of:
address of said corporation. Immediately after being served
with, 'or accepting, any such process or notice, the auditor

shall make and file with said power of attorney a copy-of such
process or notice'with a note thereon indorsed of the-time of
service, or acceptance, as the case may be, and transmit such
process or notice by registered mail to such corporation at the
address last furnished as aforesaid. But no such process or
notice shall be served on the auditor or accepted by him less
than ten days before the return thereof.
"SEC. 4. In addition to the auditor, any such company.
may designate any other person in this State as its attorney
in fact, upon whom service of process or notice may be made
or who may accept such service. And, when such local attorney is appointed, process in any suit or proceeding may be
served on him to the same effect as if the same were served on
the auditor.
"SEc. 5. Failure to pay the-attorney's fee as hereinbefore
required shall have all the force and effect, and subject such
corporation to the same penalties and forfeitures, as are or
may be prescribed by law for failure to pay Lhe license tax
required to be paid by such corporation.
"SEC. 6. Any corporation failing to comply with the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

visions of this act in so far as it relates to the appointment
of the auditor as its statutory attorney, within ninety days
from its incorporation, shall forfeit one hundred dollars as a
penalty for such failure, and upon failure to pay such penalty,
the charter of such corporation shall thereby be forfeited and
void."
The company refused to comply with the act, and, thereupon,
this proceeding was instituted.
Mr. W. E. Chilton, for plaintiff in error:
Corporations are persons within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Santa Clara v. Southern Pac. R. R., 118
U. S. 394' 4 Thompson Corp. ยง 5448. The act deprives. this
corporation of -the equal protection of the laws. It is a foreign domestic corporation and subjected to the law, while
resident domestic corporations, which have chief works in the
State, are not affected. No statute, except this one, has ever
undertaken arbitrarily to take away from a corporation its
right to provide against accident, surprise, mistake and fraud,
in an alleged attempt to secure to all persons having controversies with it, a fair and reasonable way to secure service of
process upon it. See State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 179, as to
limiting right of contract.
The attempt to put this legislation upon theground of public
,safety or any other specious public aspect is, with all respect,
the merest pretense. It is paternal legislation. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 661; Williams v. Fears, 179 .U. S.' 274;
People v. Gilson, 109 N. Y. 389; Peoplev.Warden, 157 N. Y. 116.
The constitutionality of the statute is to be determined not
by what has been done in any particular instance, but whaf
may be done under and by virtue of its authority. It is for
the courts to determine what is due process of law, or what
is the equal protection of the laws, and not for the legislature.
Lawton. v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Ailgeyer v. Louisiana,165
U. S.578; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Cooley's Const.
Lim., 6th ed., 484.

ST. MARY'S PETROLEUM. CO. v. WEST VIRGINIA. 189
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff ih Error.

This act is unjust and unfair for another reason. It allows
the auditor to accept service of process for a given class of.corporations.
The act is justified by the Supreme Court of Appeals of West
Virginia, solely upon the ground that the reserved power to
alter or amend gives the State the right to pass this law, and
the opinion proceeds upon the theory that there is no limit to
this power of the legislature. But this position is controverted by Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S.319, and see Code W. Va.,
ch. 53, ยง 53; Const. W. Va., Art. XI, ยง 4, as to the right to
select agents.
This act takes away, not only a fundamental right, but one
granted in the original charter, and without which the corporation could not transact business. Lothrop v. Stedeman,
13 Blatchf. 134; Brannon, Fourteenth Amendment, 365; Holyoke v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500, '519. Bank V. Owensboro, 173
U. S. 636, distinguished.
The statute fixes a tax upon this corporation for a private
purpose and not for a public purpose, and in so doing, it
deprives this corporation of its property without due process
of law.
The act requires every corporation to pay to
the auditor as
its said attorney ten dollars for his services as such for the then
current year. All taxation shall be for public purposes.
Brannon, Fourteenth Amendment, 160; Cole v. LaGrange,
113 U. S.1; Loan Ass'n v. Topeka,: 20 Wall. 665.
This is an arbitrary exercise of power, imposing a tax for
private services, whether performed or not, whether needed
or not. One corporation may require services worth many
hundred dollars; another may require no service. Yet both
are required to pay the same. If the law charged so much for
each process served or transmitted, there would be some attempt at fairness, and some grounds for likening the case to
that where fees are charged and covered into the treasury.
Charlotte v. Gibbs, 142 U. S. 385, and People v. Budd, 145
U. S. 175, are not determining upon this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

203 U. S.

Mr. Clarke W. May, Attorney. General of the State of West
Virginia, for defendant in error:
The inhibition that no State shall deprive any person within
its jurisdiction of the equal protection of the laws was designed
to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled
out as a special subject for discrimination and hostile legislation. Pembina v. Pennsylvania, 125 U.- S. 181; Brannon's
Fourteenth Amendment, 323. But see Kentucky Tax Cases,
115 U. S. 321; McGoon v. Illinois, 170 U. S. 283; it only requires
that the same means and methods shall apply to all constituents
of a class so that law may operate equally on all similarly.
situated. With the impotency-of the law, the Constitution has
no concern. Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691.
in the case at bar, having the clear right to regulate and
control its own creations, the State put all non-resident domestic corporations, which elected to have their places of business
and works outside of the State, and all foreign corporations
coming into the State, on an equal footing. Waters-Pierce
Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 43.
Plaintiff in error, having accepted the charter subject to the
legislative right to amend or repeal it, cannot now complain
of such amendment. Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648,
652; Railway Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; N. Y. Life Ins.
Co. v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389; Louisville & Nashville v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 579.
For other statutes held not to be discriminatory, see Tullis
v. Earle, 175 U. S. 348; Railway Co. v. Hume, 115 U. S. 348;
Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; Blake v. McClung,
172 U. S. 242; McGoun v. Trust Co., 170 U. S. 283; Clark v.
Titusville, 184 U. S. 329; Brannon, Fourteenth Amendment,
ch. 16; Narron v. Wilmington &c. R. R. Co., 122 N. Car. 856.
The imposition of a tax requiring the payment of ten dollars
to the auditor for acting as attorney for a non-resident domestic corporation or a foreign corporation doing business in the
State, which money goes to th6 State, is not a denial of the equal
protection of the laws, nor-does it deprive the company of its

ST. MARY'S PETROLEUM CO. v.WEST VIRGINIA. 191
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property without due process of law. Central Trust Co. v.
Campbell, 173 U. S. 84. And see Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27 and Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S., 703, as to the distinction"between what is and what is not invalid.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is argued that the act of February 22, 1905, is invalid
under the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it deprives the
company of liberty of contract and property withoutdue process of law, and denies it the equal protection of the laws.
But in view of repeated decisions of this court, the contention
is without merit. The State had the clear right to regulate
its own creations, and, a fortiori, foreign corporations permitted
to transact business within its borders.
In this instance it'put all non-resident domestic corporations,
which elected to have their places of business and works out-side of. the State, and all foreign corporations coming into the
State, on the same footing in respect of the service of process,
and the law operated on all these alike:
Such a classification was reasonable and not open to constitutional- objection. Orient 'Insurance Company v. Daggs,
172 U. S. 557, 563' Waters-Pierce Oil Company v. Texas, 177
U. S. 43; Central Loan and Trust Company v. Campbell, 173
U. S. 84; National Council v. State Council, decided November 19, 1906, ante, p. 151 ;'Northwestern Life Insurance Company
v. Riggs, post, p. 243; Brannon on Fourteenth Amendment,
Chap. 16.
It is true that the prior law left it to the corporation to appoint an attorney to represent it, and that the act of February,
1905, changed this so as to make the auditor such attorney,
but this at the most was no more than an amendment as to
the appointment of an agent, and when the St. Mary's Company accepted its charter-it did so, subject to the right of
amendment. And we. agree with, the state court that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

requirement of the payment of ten dollars to the auditor for
the use of the State does not amount to a taking of property
without due process or an unjust discrimination. Charlotte
Railroad v. Gibbs, 142 U. S. 386; People v. Squire, 145 U. S.
175. If the act is valid,. that is.
The objections going to the -expediency or the hardships and
injustice of the act, and its alleged inconsistency with the state
constitution and laws, are matters with which we have nothing
to do on this writ of error, and the question whether the provision that the corporation shall not be required to pay any
fee to any one theretofore appointed an attorney is in,'alid or
not, requires no consideration on this record.
Judgment affirmed.

.PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT
No. 249.

OF IDAHO.

Argued October 10, 11, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

The duty of a Federal court, to interfere, on habeas corpus, for the protection
of one alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution
or laws of the United States must often be controlled by the special circumstances of the case, and except in an emergency demanding prompt
action, the party held in custody by a State, charged with crime-against
its laws, will be left to stand his trial in the state court, which, it will be
assumed, will enforce, as it has the power to do equally with a Federal
court,. any right asserted under and secured by the supreme law of the
land.
Even if the arrest and deportation of one alleged to be a fugitive from
justice may have been effected by fraud and connivance arranged be
tween the executive authorities of the demanding and surrendering
States so as to deprive him of any opportunity to apply before deportation to a court in the surrendering State for his discharge, and even if on
such application to any court, state or Federal, he would have been discharged, he cannot, so far as the Constitution oi the laws of the United
States are concerned-when actually in the demanding State, in the
custody of its authorities for trial, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof
-be discharged on habeas corpus by the Federal -court. It would be

