SECURITY TRUST CO. v. LEXINGTON.
203 U. S.

323

Statement of the Case.

case, and we are not now concerned with the question as to
how the matter should be determined, but only whether the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction to determine it. As stated in
Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, at page 82,

in speaking of the question of jurisdiction: "We do not wish
to be understood as now determining such questions in the
present case, for we are only considering whether or not the

Circuit Court had jurisdiction to consider them."
Concluding that the court below had such jurisdiction, because it presents a controversy arising under the Constitution
of the United States, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the case remanded to that court to take proceedings therein according to law.
Reversed.

SECURITY TRUST AND SAFETY VAULT COMPANY v.
CITY OF LEXINGTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 55.

Argued October 23, 24, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Before a special assessment, levied by legislative authority of a State--in
this case providing for back taxes in Kentucky-can be actually enforced,
or during the process of its enforcement, the taxpayer must have an
opportunity to be heard as to its validity and extent; but this rule is met
where the state court has afforded the taxpayer full opportunity to be
heard on both of those questions, and after such opportunity has rendered
a judgment providing for the enforcement of such amount of the tax as it
finds actually due.
In so determining the amount due and reducing the amount assessed the
state court does not assume the legislative function of making an assessment, but merely, after hearing, judicially decides the amount of an
assessment, made by the assessor under color of legislative authority.
Whether under the constitution and laws of the State the burden of showing
the invalidity of a tax is on the taxpayer, is not a Federal question.

THE plaintiff in error, which was plaintiff below, filed its

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

petition in the Fayette County Circuit Court, State of Kentucky, in equity, on February 3, 1899, for the purpose of obtaining tn injunction restraining the defendants in error from
collection of certain back taxes accruing during the years
1894 to 1898, both inclusive, imposed in favor of the city of
Lexington, and which the plaintiff asserted were illegally
assessed.. A temporary injunction. was prayed for and granted,
restraining the collection of.the tax, and upon the trial the
amount of the taxes was reduced, and, as so reduced, declared
to be a lien on the property of the plaintiff in error as trustee,
and judgment accordingly wa entered, which judgment was,
upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of the State, affirmed,
and the plaintiff brings the case here by writ of error.
In the amended petition it is averred that the plaintiff, as
trustee, owned certain real estate 'in the city of Lexington, and
that the tax collector of the city, asserting a claim for back
taxes from 1894 to 1898, both inclusive, in favor of the city
against the trust estate in the plaintiff's hands for $13,964.96,
had, to satisfy the claim, levied on the real property held by
it as trustee and' described in the petition, and had advertised
the same. to be sold, and would sell the same, unless restrained
by order of the court. It was averred that the claim for back
taxes was. for alleged omissions of personal property owned
by the plaintiff as trustee, which had not been assessed for city
taxation for the years stated, and that the tax was based on
alleged assessments imposed in December, 1898, for these
years, made by the city assessor of Lexington. The-plaintiff
denied that the pretended assessments made in 1898 for those
years were any assessments at all, and alleged that there had
been no assessment for the back taxes of those years or for apy
of them. It was averred that certain entries which had been
made in the assessor's books, for the years mentioned, purNtaxes, were inporting to assess the property for these bacls
terpolated among the' assessments for those years, but were not
legally made, that such entries were not asses sment9, nor any
step in the valid awessment of back taxes in those years; and

-the

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. LEXINGTON.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

were made by the city assessor without any "notice to, o;"
conference with, the plaintiff of his intention to make the same,
or any assessment, and the plaintiff at no time, either before
or since said pretended assessment, had been given or allowed
any opportunity or privilege to make any complaint or show
cause against the assessment before any competent officer or
tribunal whatever. It was also averred that all of the property of plaintiff as trustee, during each of the years covered
by the claim for back taxes, had been duly assessed, and if it
had been given the opportunity plaintiff -would have established the fact of such assessment and that it had been fully
and legally paid.
The plaintiff averred that collection of taxes based on assessments made as above stated wonld be in violation of the Constitution of the Uni.ted States and of the State of Kentucky,
forbidding that a -citizen should be deprived of his property
without due process of law.
The defendants in their answer averred that all of the property (with an exception not material) on which the defendants
were claiming taxes as upon omitted property, had in fact been
omitted by the plaintiff from its assessment lists during the
years. mentioned, and that the lists made out by the plaintiff
for those years had been imperfect and improper lists, and
that there was omitted therefrom a large part of the personalty
owned by the plaintiff as trustee. The defendants averred that
all the omitted property was properly assessable for the respective years, and that there was due thereon, in 1898, as the
back taxes on the said omitted property, the sum named,
to wit, $13,964.96; and the defendants denied that the valuation of the property, as fixed in the assessment, was any larger
in proportion than the value of the assessment generally placed
on similar property in the city of Lexington. After the assessment was made, it was averred that the delinquent tax
collector demanded payment of the same, which was refused,
and thereupon he levied upon the property on December 31,
1898. The answer then set up the making of the assessment

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

on the property omitted, and showed that it was made substantially as averred in the amended petition, by inserting in
each of the books for the various years an additional assessment on account of omitted property, and that after each of
the entries of assessment in the various books had been made
by the assessor he signed his name after the words, "Assessed
by me;" and it is averred that the assessment was also recorded
by the assessor in the back tax assessment book, kept by the
city of Lexington, and was by him reported to the auditor
of the city of Lexington on the day that the assessment was
made, December 31, 1898. The defendants also averred that,
more than thirty days prior to the time the assessment was
made, the city, through its duly authorized officers and agents,
had notified the plaintiff that it had omitted from its assessments for the years 1894 to 1898, both inclusive, a large portion
of the estate held by it as trustee, and, at the time of giving
such notice, the officers of the city had furnished and delivered,
as a part of such notice, an itemized statement of the securities
and other personal property belonging to the estate, and held
by the plaintiff, on the respective dates, for taxation for the
respective years, and that payment of the taxes upon this
omitted property was repeatedly demanded of the plaintiff
by the city during a period of more than thirty days prior to
the assessment, and the plaintiff refused to pay any additional
taxes or to list the omitted property, and that ample time and
opportunity were afforded plaintiff to show that the property
had not been omitted from the yearly assessments, and the
plaintiff failed to do so.
A reply and rejoinder were filed, and upon the pleadings the
parties went to trial.
Judgment was given for the defendant, refusing the injunction, and providing for the sale of the real estate to satisfy the
amount due for back taxes, as stated in the judgment. The
total amount of back taxes due on the omitted property was,
by such judgment, reduced from $13,964.96, the amount
claimed by the defendant, to the sum of $8,626.63.

SECURITY TRUST CO v. LEXINGTON.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. John T. Shelby and Mr. George R. Hunt, with whom
Mr. Joseph D. Hunt and Mr. John R. Allen were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
The right to be heard in tax cases is a constitutional right
and indefeasible.
It is fundamental that in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings affecting the rights of the citizen he shall have notice and
an opportunity to be heard before any judgment, decree, ordei
br demand shall be given and established against him. Tax
proceedings are not in the strict sense judicial, but they are
quasi-judicial, and as they have the effect of a judgment, the
reasons which require notice of judicial proceedings are always
present when the conclusive steps are to be taken. Cooley
on Taxation, 2d ed., 362; 3d ed.; 626; McMillan v. A lerson,
ยง5 U. S. 37; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Hager v.
Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701; Spencer v. Merchant, 125
U. S. 345; Palmerv. McMahon, 133 U. S. 660; Lent v. Tillson,
140 U. S. 316; Pittsburg, Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus,
154 U. S. 421; Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159
U. S. 537.
The action of the assessing officers, when completed according to the statutes, is a finality; at all events, so far as it relates
to the value placed on the assessed property. In fixing these
values, the assessors and the Boards of Review, if there be such
boards, exercise a judicial or quasi-judicial function, and
their conclusions are not open to review by anT tribunal or
court, unless otherwise expressly provided by statute. We
must, therefore, look to the assessment proceedings to determine whether or not there was the due process of law required
by the Constitution.
If the facts, or any material facts are there conclusively
established against the property Owner, without the required
notice and opportunity to be heard, due process of law is
wanting. Stanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S. 550; Cooley,
Taxation, 2d ed., 730; 3d ed., 1353.
The doctrine of the Kentucky cases is the same. Odd

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

Fellows v. Dayton, 25 Ky. Law Rep. 665; Ward v. Beale, 91
Kentucky, 65; Henderson Bridge Co. v. Commonwealth, 99
Kentucky, 623; Royer Wheel Co. v: Taylor County, 104 Kentucky, 741; Coulter v. Louisville Bridge Co., 114 Kentucky,
42; Albin Co. v. Louisville, 117 Kentucky, 895; Citizens National
Bank v. Lebanon, 118 Kentucky, 60; Slaughter v. Louisville,
89 Kentucky, 112; Turner V. Pewee Valley, 18 Ky. Law. Rep.
757.
Both as to Kentucky authorities and the law as expounded
by this court and .the authorities generally, the action of the
assessing officers, whatever the form of the assessment, when
completed, if it be of any force at all, becomes conclusive as to
the value of the property embraced in the assessment; and
that matter is not open to further inquiry in any court, and
if in these proceedings the requisite notice and opportunity
foK, hearing be not allowed, then'the so-called assessment is
vdid for want of due process of law. No other hearing can be
the legal equivalent or substitute for the hearing the party
to be affected is entitled to before the assessing officers, whose
authority to value, and give relief against errors of valuation,
is full and exclusive.
Tested by these well established principles, we submit that
'there cannot be any reason to doubt that the assessment in
Ithis case, made as stated above, is absolutely void.
.The right of the city to the affirmative relief granted upon
its cross-action must be tested by precisely the same principles,
as would determine its right to such relief had it been sought
in an original suit, brought by it for the collection of the tax
levied on the assessment in controversy. The whole question,
therefore, is whether the alleged agsessment was such an
assessment as could constitute the basis of any enforceable tax"
claim at all. If there was no valid assessment the court had
no power. to make one. No such power is conferred by statute,
and the authorities, so far as we have seen them, deny any
such power to the courts. Certainly such power does not pertain to the courts of Kentucky.. Palmer v. McMahon, 133

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. LEXINGTON.
203 U. S.

329

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 669; Slaughter v. Louisi'ille, 89 Kentucky, 123, and
authorities supra.
Until a valid assessment is made by an authorized officer,
the city or municipality has no standing to enforce any claim.
Mr. George C. Webb and Mr. George S. Shanklin, with whom
Mr. J. R. Morton and Mr. E. P. Farrell were on the brief,
for defendants in error:
The decision of the Court of Appeals was based upon facts
showing due process of law. Due process of law means notice,
and an opportunity to be heard in stch manner as adapted
to the exigencies of the case. This requirement of due process
of law was complied with in this case by the public notice
which was given in accordance with the statute; by actual
notice before the 'omitted property was assessed; by a full
hearing given to the plaintiff in error in this suit as to the
justice of such assessment. Central Land Co.,v. Laidley, 159
U. S. 103; Kentucky Code, ยง 126; Pomeroy on Code Remedies,
623; Reynolds v. Bowen, 36 N. E. Rep: 756; Clark v. Louisville
Water Works,-90 Kentucky, 524; Ke~itucky Statutes, ยง 3179;
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Hagar v. Reclamation
District, 111 U. S. 701; Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, .115
U. S. 321; 1 Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 61, 65; Weyerhaueser
v. Minnesota, 176 U. S. 550; Paulson v. Portland, 149 U. S.
30; Sturgis v. Carter, 114 U. S. 511; Foster v. Essex Bank, 16
Massachusetts, 245; Greenleaf on Evidence, ยง 78; Brandt v.
Hyatt, 7 Bush, 363; Brown v. Young, 2 B. Mon. 26; Baldwin
v. Shine, 84 Kentucky, 502; Gates v. Barrett, 79 Kentucky,
295; Stanley v. Board of Supervisors, 121 U. S. 535; McMillan
v. Aiderson, 95 U. S. 37.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
There are in the State of Kentucky two distinct methods'
by which an assessment for so-called back taxes can be made.
One method is an assessment by a special. back tax assessor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

elected as provided for by an ordinance of the city of Lexington. This ordinance the Court of Appeals of the State of
Kentucky has held, contrary to the contention of the plaintiff
in this case, did not displace the regular assessor, or affect his
right to make an assessment for back taxes. The other method
provides for an assessment by the regular assessor, under section 3179 of the laws relating to the city of Lexington, which
section, among other things therein contained, provides that:
"Whenever the assessor shall ascertain that there has, in any
former year or years, been any property omitted which should
have been taxed, he shall assess the same against the person
who should have been assessed with it, if living; if not against
his representative."
In this case the assessment for back taxes was made by the
regular assessor, but not until December 31, 1898, under the
above quoted provision in section 3179. It was, however, a
special assessment, made after the regular assessment in the
assessor's books of 1898, and after such books had been transmitted within the time prescribed by law (sec. 3180) December 1, 1898, to the auditor, subject to the inspection of the
public. In regard to the regular assessment the Statutes of
Kentucky provide (section 3181) for a board of equalization,
which sits on the first Monday of January, and continues in
session not longer than four weeks. The auditor must deliver
to the board the assessment books filed with him by the
assessor, and it is to hear all complaints against the assessments made by the assessor, and may determine the same, but
it cannot increase the assessment without notice to the party
whose property is to be increased. The section is part of the
general statutes as to assessments for the annual taxes, and
it refers evidently to the assessments made by the assessor up
to the first of December preceding, and which appear in the
book which the law directs to be sent to the auditor and by
him transmitted to the -board of equalization. It does not
refer to an extraordinary assessment made by the assessor for
back taxes subsequently to the time provided for by law for

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. LEXINGTON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the making of the general assessment. The assessor must
return the general assessment which he makes in his book
under section 3179 to the auditor on or before December 1 in
each year. (Section 3180.) This book remains in the auditor's office subject to the inspection of the public until transmitted, in the January following, to the board of equalization,
under section 3181. In the case before us the assessment for
the back tax was made December 31, 1898, by entering a
separate assessment for each year in the assessor's book for
that year,. and, therefore, these various assessments were not
contained in the books of the assessor, as they were sent to
the auditor on December 1 of each year respectively. The
assessor's books for the years prior to 1898were obtained in
some way, and the entries of the assessments were therein
made, because, as stated, there were no other books provided.
We find no provision of the statute as to assessments for back
taxes which requires notice of such assessment if made at any
time other than in the regular course for the general assessment as provided for in the general statute. If the assessment happens to be made in the assessor's book prior to December 1 in any year it, of course, goes with the book to the
auditor, and remains there for inspection by the public until
taken before the board of equalization. Such an assessment
would carry with it the provision of the law of the State applicable to the city on the subject of assessments, including the
general notice under the law providing for such assessment.
But that, of course, cannot apply where the assessment is not
made on or before December 1, in'the regular assessnient book.
That book the taxpayer must omit to examine at his peril,
when filed with the auditor, or when before the board of
equalization. As sent to the auditor, December 1, 1898, the
book did not contain the assessment in question. And as to
the books of the former years, they had passed out of the legal
custody of the assessor, and he could not take any of such
books and, without notice, impose a, conclusive assessment
for back taxes for the particular year the book had been made

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U.s.

use of as an assessment book. Such assessment could not be
enforced unless the taxpayer could thereafter at some time,
and as a matter of right, be heard upon the question of the
validity and the amount of such- tax. The general statutory
notice as to the regular assessment proceedings cannot be
regarded as notice of this special assessment made years after
the completion of the old assessments.
In regard to the question of notice, the Court of Appeals
held that the burden of proof in such a proceeding as this was
upon the plaintiff to establish that there was no notice of the
assessment given it; but it also held that the defendant had,
in fact, proved that there was notice given to the plaintiff in
error before the assessment was made. This applies to a
notice in fact, but the Court of Appeals did not hold that there
was any notice made necessary by the statute in regard to
such a special assessment as above described. An assessment
made on December 31, 1898, in the manner set forth, although
imposed before the meeting of the board of equalization in
January following, was not imposed at a time which made the
general statutes as to assessments applicable, and, therefore,
the taxpayer had no statutory notice or opportunity furnished
him to appear and be heard before the board. He may have
examined the assessor's books for the various years 1894-1898,
when filed in the auditor's office on the first of December, by
the assessor, and prior to December 31, when this assessment
was made, and found that there was no assessment made
against him for any back taxes. There was no statutory
obligation imposed on him to again examine the books lest
perchance they may have had an interlined assessment made
in them, for the making of which the law provided no notice.
It follows that the subsequent assessments placed in such
books and not appearing on any book, when sent to the auditor
by the assessor, would not be made under any statutory
provision for notice, and would not afford the taxpayer an
opportenity to be heard before the board of equalization in
regard to the illegality of such tax.

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. LEXINGTON.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

If the statute did not provide for a notice in any form, it
is not material that as a matter of grace or favor notice may
have been given of the proposed assessment. It is not what
notice, uncalled for by the statute, the taxpayer may have
received in a particular case that is material, but the question
Stuart
is, whether any notice is provided for by thi !tp.-e.
could
Pessment
this
speci.1
Y.
183.
Before
v. Palmer, 74 N.
be actually enforced" or during the process of enforcement the
taxpayer must have an opportunity to be heard as to its
validity and extent. In Wayerhaueser v. Minnesota, 176
U. S. 550, it was held that the taxpayer was entitled to an
opportunity to be heard before the tax could be 'enforced
(see page 556); that the filing of the tax list therein spoken of
was, in effect, as held by the court, the institution of an action
against each tract of land described init, and the taxpayer
thereafter had opportunity to make any defense he might
have. This the court held was sufficient. The proceedings
leading up to that assessment originated in a complaint, in
writing, to the governor, who thereupon appointed a commission to hear the matter, and if proper, impose the tax,,
but before it could be enforced or during the process of collection the landowner had a right to be heard. The statute now
before us does not provide for a notice of the special assessment, nor did the plaintiff have an opportunity to be heard
as to the assessment before the board of equalization.
But in this case the state court has afforded to the taxpayer full opportunity to be heard on the question of the
validity and amount of theN tax, and after such opportunity
has rendered a judgment which provides for the enforcement
of the tax as it has been reduced by the court, the reduction
amounting to over five thousand dollars. The plaintiff has,
therefore, been heard, and on the hearing has succeeded in
reducing the assessment. What more ought to be given?
Whether the opportunity to be heard which has been afforded
to the plaintiff has been pursuant to the provisions of some
statute, as inMcMillen v. Anderson; 95 U. S. 37, and Hagar v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, or by the holding of the
court that the plaintiff has such right in the trial of a suit to
enjoin the collection of.the tax, is not material. The state
court in this case has held the taxpayer entitled to a hearing
and has granted and enforced such right, and upon the trial
has reduced the tax. In so doing the court below has not
assumed the legislative function of making an assessment.
It has merely reduced, after a full hearing, the amount of an
assessment made by the assessor under color at least of legis-lative authority.
The Court of Appeals has held that the power of the trial
court in giving the hearing has been properly exercised.
It is urged that the court below has not in fact decided that
the assessment against plaintiff as reduced was legal, but only
that plaintiff will not be heard upon the question of enjoining
the collection of the tax until plaintiff tenders the amount
of tax equitably due. The plaintiff denies that there is any
amount equitably due, and it contends that it has not had an
opportunity to show the invalidity of the assessment. We
think the contention not well founded. The court has held
that the burden rested upon the plaintiff to show the invalidity of the tax. Even if erroneous this decision is not one
of a Federal nature. It had the chance, at all events, to show
the invalidity of the tax in whole or in part. Upon the evidence given on the trial the tax was reduced, and the Court
of Appeals has said:
"The claim of appellant to escape a retrospective assessment of the property of its cestui que trust in this case is wholly
technical. That it owes the tax it seeks to evade, is made
apparent by an examination of this record. Although it had
in its hands the means of instantly and most conclusively
showing either that the trust estate did not own the property
With which it was assessed, or that the values were too high,
it introduced no evidence whatever on this subject. While it
was not incumbent on the appellees to introduce any evidence,
being authorized under the principles herein enunciated to

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COM. b. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 335
203 U. S.

Syllabus.

await the evidence of appellant showing the invalidity of the
assessment complained of, yet they did introduce evidence
which we think clearly establishes that appellant justly owes
the amount of the tax which has been adjudged against the
estate of its cestui que trust."
We think it sufficiently appears that the plaintiff had an
opportunity to be heard upon the question of the validity of
the tax, both for want of notice in'
fact, and whether the property assessed for back taxes had really been omitted from the
original list for the years in question, and was therefore properly
taxable under the assessment for back taxes. Even if the
assessment had been made by the assessor without notice, yet
if upon the hearing in this cause the plaintiff had the right
and an opportunity to be heard, and the assessment was
thereon reduced, it has obtained all the hearing it was entitled
to. We think the plaintiff did have such a hearing, and the
judgment is correct, so far at least as this court is authorized
to review it. It is therefore
Affirmed.

MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMMISSION v. ILLINOIS
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 64.

Argued October 26, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Where complainant not only sets up diverse citizenship but also a constitutional question he has the right to appeal from the judgment of the Circuit
Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and from its decision an appeal or
writ of error may be taken to this court. Field v. Barber Asphalt Co.,
194 U. S. 618, distinguished.
A commission created by the law of a State for the purpose of supervising
and controlling the acts of railroad companies operating within the State
is subjeot to suit, a44 p suit brought by a company of another State in the

