TAYLOR v. TAFT.
203 U. S.

Syllabus.

constitute the process by which the case is transferred from
the state to the Federal court." When, then, Beardsley filed
his petition for removal, he sought affirmative relief in another
district than his own. But plaintiff, in resisting the application and moving to remand, denied the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. In St. Louis &c. Railway Co. v. McBride, 141
U. S. 127, where the plaintiffs were citizens and residents of
the Western District of Arkansas, and commenced their -.ctio.
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district, and
the defendant was a corporation and citizen of the State of
Missouri, it was held that, as the defendant appeared and
pleaded to the merits, he thereby waived his right to challenge
thereafter the jurisdiction of the court over him, on the ground
that the suit had been brought in the wrong district. And
there are many other cases to the same effect.
Our conclusion is that the case should have been remanded,
and as the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to proceed, that
mandamus is the proper remedy.
Mandamus awarded; petition for prohibition dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER concurred in the result.

UNITED STATES ex rel. TAYLOR v. TAFT, SECRETARY
OF WAR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 300.

Submitted November 19, 1906.-Decided December 10, 1906.

Where a government elnploy6 does not deny the authority of the President
or his representative to dismiss him, but only contends that his dis missal
is illegal because certain rules ani regulations of the civil service were
not observed, the validity of an authority exercised under the United
States is not drawn in question, and under ยง 233 of the Code of the District of Columbia, 31 Stat. 1189, 1127, this court has no jurisdiction to
review the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
Writ of error to review 24 App. D. C. 95, dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

RELATOR was, on May 12, 1902, a clerk in the classified
civil service of the, United States, and employed in the War
Department. On that day an article purporting to be signed
by her and making very serious reflections on the President
of the United States appeared in a newspaper published at
Washington. Some days thereafter the Secretary of War
directed that relator be called upon to state whether she was
the author of the publication, and, if so, it was ordered thai
her attention should be invited to section 8 of civil service
rule II, and that she be allowed three days in which to submit
any answer or statement she might wish to make.
To this relator answered, admitting that she was the author
of the article, but insisting that she had not been notified of
any charge calling for answer under the rule.
Thereupon the Secretary entered an order dismissing her
from the service, and filed a memorandum assigning as reason
therefor the, publication of the article.
Relator then filed her petition for mandamus in the Supreme
Court of the District, to compel the Secretary to restore her.
The petition recited sections 3 and 8 of civil service rule II,
and assigned as grounds of relief that the procedure was not
in conformity with the executive regulations set out, in that
no reasons for removal had been furnished relator, and also
in that the real reason of her removal was because of her
political opinions' and the expression of them.
The Secretary answered the petition, setting out the facts
in detail, denying that relator was removed on account of her
political opinions, and averring that the action was taken
because of the publication of the article, containing derogatory
and disrespectful statements of and, concerning the President
of the United States in relation to his conduct as Commanderin-Chief, and which he decided "was prejudicial to order and
the efficiency of said War Department, and such offense as
rendered the further connection of the petitioner with said
service incompatible with the best interests of the same."
And while insisting that all acts done or caused to be done by

TAYLOR v. TAFT.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

him were in conformity with the civil service rules, the Secretary 1 bmitted that the petitioner showed by her .petition
'(no , ested right, title or interest in or to the employment
formerly exercised by her in the office of the Adjutant General
of the United States Army, and that the relation of such petitioner, as an employ6, to the executive civil service, in respect
of appointment, promotion and removal, is a matter wholly
within the competence and cognizance of the political department, and the action of the head of an executive department
in respect thereof is not subject to be reviewed, reversed, set
aside or controlled by a court of law, nor can his action in that
behalf be commanded, directed or compelled by the writ of
mandamus, as the petitioner in her said petition has prayed."
Relator filed a demurrer to the answer, which was overruled,
whereupon she elected to stand by the demurrer, and judgment was entered denying the writ. The judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 24 Apps. D. C. 95, and
this writ of error then sued out.
Mr. Noble E. Dawson for plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor General for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a motion to dismiss the writ
of error for want of jurisdiction. The right to 'such a writ is
given in section 233 of the Code of the District of Columbia,
31 Stat. 1189, c.854, 1227, which reads:
"Any fimel judgment or decree of the Court of Appeals may
be reexamined and affirmed, reversed, or modified by the
Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ of error or
appeal, in all cases in which the matter in dispute, exclusive
of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, in the
same manner and under the same regulations as existed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

cases of writs of error on judgments or appeals from decrees
rendered in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
on February ninth, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, and
also in cases, without regard to the sum or value of the matter
in dispute, wherein is involved the validity of any patent or
copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a
treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United States."
If this writ of error can be maintained it is on the ground
that the validity of an authority exercised under the United
States was drawn in question.
The relator did not, however, question the authority of the
President or his representatives to dismiss her, if the required
formalities had been complied with. What she claimed was
that there were certain rules and regulations of the civil
service which were not observed in the matter of her dismissal,
and that, therefore, such dismissal was illegal.
But this contention did not draw in question the validity
of an authority exercised under the United States, but the
construction and application of regulations of the exercise
of such authority.
As Mr. Justice Gray said, in South Carolina v. Seymour,
153 U. S. 353, referring to an identical provision of the laws
of the District prior to the code: "In order to come within this
clause, the validity, and not the construction only, of a treaty
or statute of the United States, or of an authority exercised
under the United States, must be directly drawn in question."
And, prior to that case, we had disposed of the same question in United States v. Lynch, 137 U. S. 280. That was a
petition for a writ of mandamus against the Fourth Auditor
and the Second Comptroller of the Treasury, to ccnpel them
to audit the account of petitioner, who was an officer in the
Npvy. It was insisted that by the disallowance of petitioner's
claim for mileage these officers exercised a discretion which
they did not possess; that this was an invalid 6xercise of an
authority under the United States; and that hence the validity
J

GILA VALLEY
203 U. S.

t. R. CO. v. LYON.
Syllabus.

of the authority was drawn in question. We held otherwise,
and said:
"The validity of a statute is not drawn in question every
time rights claimed under such statute are controverted, nor
is the validity of an authority, every time an act done by such
authority is disputed.
"What the relator sought was an order coercing these officers
to proceed in a particular way, and this order the Supreme
Court of the District declined to grant. If we were to reverse
that judgment upon the ground urged, it would not be for
want of power in the Auditor to audit the account, and in the
Comptroller to revise and pass upon it, but because those
officers had disallowed what they ought to have allowed and erroneously construed what needed no construction. This would
not in any degree involve the validity of their authority."
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543, is not to the contrary, for
there the validity of a rule constituting the authority of certain officers in the Patent Office wvas drawn in question.
Writ of errordismissed.

GILA VALLEY, GLOBE AND NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. LYON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 96.

Argued.November 13. 1906.-Decided December 10, 1906.

Where the negligence of the master in not supplying proper appliances
has a share in causing injuries to an employ6, the master is liable notwithstanding the negligence of a fellow servant may have contributed
to the accident.
Defendant's objection to the charge on the ground that it should have been
more specific as to the distinction between sole and proximate cause
cannot be raised by a general exceptionnor should it be sustained if the
jury had its attention drawn to the proximate cause and was charged
that if the negligence of the fellow servant was the proximate cause
plaintiff could not recover.
In an action for damages for personal injuries alleged to have been caused
by unsafe appliances of a railroad company, the admissibility of, expert

VOL. cci-30

