SEABOARD AIR LINE v. FLORIDA.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. FLORIDA ex rel
ELLIS, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
Nos. 10, 11.

Argued March 2, 5, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Atlantic Coast Line v. Florida ex rel. Ellis, ante, p. 256, followed.
Where the record does not disclose why an order of a state railroad commission was made applicable only to certain local and intrastate rates, but the
state law provides that rates so fixed are to be considered in all courts as
prima facie just and reasonable, and the effect of the order was to equalize
rates, this court will not hold the judgment of the highest court of the
State sustaining the rate, was erroneous. A State may insist upon
equality of intrastate railroad rates, the conditions being the same, without depriving the railroad company of its property without due process
of law.
It will be presumed that a state railroad commission acts in fixing an in.trastate railroad rate with full knowledge of the situation, and where the
record does not disclose all the evidence, a rate sustained by the highest
court of the State will not be held by this court to be confiscatory and
depriving the railroad company of its property without due process of
law where it appears by the report of the company that the rate exceeds
the average rate received by the company during the previous year.
48 Florida,129 and 150, affirmed.

cases resemble the one immediately preceding, in
this, that review is sought in each of an award of a peremptory
writ of mandamus by the Supreme Court of Florida to compel
.compliance with an order of the state railroad commission.
In the first the court sustained an order of the commission,
made June 25, 1903, and to go into effect July 1, 1903, prescribing rates on the Florida West Shore Railway, charged tobe under the control and management of the plaintiff in error,
48 Florida, 129-152, the order being in these words: "It is
hereby ordered and adjudged by the railroad commission of
the State of Florida that the following schedule of freight tariffs
shall be allowed and adopted for freight shipments over the
THESE

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

2C3 U. S.

Seaboard Air Line Railway, to apply only to shipments from
or destined to points on the Florida West Shore Railway, and
from points on the Florida West Shore Railway to points on
the Florida West Shore Railway, and the same shall be put
into operation and be effective on the first day of July, A. D.

1903," and followed by the schedule; and in the second, it
enforced the order of the commission in respect to 'phosphates
(which was noticed by us in the opinion in the preceding case).
48 Florida, 150.
The proceedings before the commission are not disclosed,
noris there anything to shlow upon what the orders were based.
There was notice and a hearing. And in, the pleadings in the
first case appear the contracts between the plaintiff in error
Railway.
and the Florida West Shore
In the Supreme Court the relator presented no testimony,
relying upon the statutory presumption which attends an order
of the commission. The defendant introduced the report
which it had made to the railroad commission for the year
ending June 30, 1904, and the report of the railroad commission to the Governor of the State for the year ending March 1,
1904, and upon these two .reports the cases were considered
by the Supreme Court.
Mr. Hilary A. Herbert and Mr. George P. Raney, with
whom Mr. Benjamin Micou was on the brief, for plaintiff
in error, in this case and in No. 9 argued simultaneously
herewith.1

If this court sustains the court below then, by ยง 13 of the
railroad commission law of Florida, for every failure to comply
with any requirement of either of the two orders appealed
from the injured person may bring suit and recover damages,
court costs and lawyers' fees. In other words, the roads are
at the mercy of any injured person who, under the phosphate
order, has demanded of us to load and carry a ton of phosphate
I Atlantic Coast Line v. Florida ex rel. Elli, ante, p. 256.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. FLORIDA.
203 U. S.

Arguinent for Plaintiff in Error.

one mile and unload -it for one cent, or load and carry it for
five miles and then unload it, all for five cents.
.The Seaboard Air-Line Railway Company is not paying any
dividends to its stockholders and its business in Florida is now
conducted at rates so low -that any mateiial reduction would
be unreasonable. And the order of the -Florida commission
in relation to phosphates is discriminatory, exceptional and
partial as to the particular subject matter. On its face it is
an irregular, unjust, and intolerable method of rate fixing.
The order makes the rate the same for one*mile as for one
hundred miles, and it is material because it applies to 16.43
per cent, of all the intrastate freight business of the appellant
company in Florida.
All railroad. literature -with which we are familiar, whether
originating in discussions before legislaitive bodies, railroad
commissions, or courts, distinguishes between long and short
hauls, since it is matter of common knowledge that no railr6ad
carrier can transport freight at the same rate per ton per mile
for long and short distances. Grading rates according to mileage may not, it is well recognized, secure perfectly fair compensation, but as the best and only practicable method of
approximating justice we believe it may be called an unvarying custom.,
It has been the custom of the railroad commission of Florida
in other cases to follow this rule of grading rates with some
reference to mileage as is shown by the record in both these
cases. The commission, however, has selected phosphates
to signalize a new departure from this just principle.
A railroad company may sometimes, for purposes of its own,
do things which a commission cannot be justified in' ordering.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Behlner, 175 U. S. 669.' Just
such an order as; this, however, we cannot conceive that any
railway company has ever prescribed for itself.
Appellant's rates on phosphates were, when altered, for
long distances less'than one cent per ton per mile, and more
for shorter distances. If the rates between any points or for

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U.

9.

any particular distances were too high, the board should have
addressed itself to the task of reducing such rates, grading
them according to distances; this because, as the court judicially
knows, short hauls and deliveries cost more than long hauls.
Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 168.
This court has jurisdiction to review on writ of error. The
Florida law provides that: "All rules and regulations made and
prescribed by said -commissioners for the transportation of
persons and property on the railroads subject to the provisions
of this act or to prevent unjust discrimination or other abuses
by them shall be deemed and held to be prima facie reasonable
and just."
If the commission make a freight rate which, on its face,
is prima facie unreasonable and unjust, certainly the Supreme
Court of Florida could not take away from this court the right
to pass upon this question by declaring that said rates were
just and reasonable. If the Florida court had any such power
as this all questioning of the conduct of a state commission
would end With the state courts, and there would be no such
thing as Federal jurisdiction over cases of this class.
In no case has such a sweeping straight rate as this been
sustained. If upheld now, the decision will greatly simplify
the duties of state boards in the future, but the rule here laid
down seems to us to be totally inconsistent with the ideas of
equity and fair play heretofore exacted of all bodies entrusted
with the delicate and difficult task of dealing with the property
rights of others. Lake Shore v. Smith, 173 U. S. 695, 696.
:The order of the board must be taken as a whole, and if in
any part of it it is unjust and without warrant, the whole
must fall. The commission made this unfair order. There
was no reason why it should not have made it just and fair.
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Pacific
Ry. (C. C.), 64 Fed. Rep. 188.
When the state railroad commission in Mississippi sought
to compel a telegraph company to keep open a particular
office as part of a system, the state court held that the com-

SEABOARD 'AIR LINE v. FLORIDA.
20.3 '. R.

โข 265

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

pany could not be compelled to do business at a loss even in
that one little office. TV. U. Tel. Co. v. Railroad Commission,
74 Mississippi, 8-.
.This official report in evidence is'uncontradicted. Altogether the Seaboard Air Line Railway constitutes a great
system extending with many branches through Virginia,
North Carolina, -South Carolina, Alabama and Florida. Its
present funded debt amounts in round numbers to some
$61,000,000 besides its stock; whereas its total cost of construction is given in round numbers at some $7,000,000 less$54,000,000. But this is by no means proof of overcapitalization. The fair conclusion is, -there being no evidence to the
contrary, that the system as a whole is worth not only the
amount it actually cost in dollars and cents to construct and
equip it, but the amount it cost its owners and at which it
was capitalized; because, like other great systems of railways,
it was extended into an undeveloped country and over desirable lines, upon the credit of the company, the company
utilizing its credit by raising money on its bonds, which money
was used in buying and building connecting roads, in operating them for a considerable period of time, during which they
did not and could not be expected to pay interest on the money
invested, the enterprising managers of the system in the meanwhile counting on the future development of the country for
a return of their investinenis. See Met. Trzist Co. v. The
Houston & T. C. R. Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 168.
In estimating the value of the property on which a railroad
company is entitled to earn a return from tariff rates, the
following authorities show that the cost of bare physical
reproduction is too narrow a basis:. Milwaukee Electric R. &
Light Co. v. Milhaukee, 87 Fed. Rl). 577, 585; Ames v. Union
P. R. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 165; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 547;
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Dey, 38 Fed. Rep. 656.
Railway companies should be allowed to earn something
by way of dividends in addition to paying operating and main-

taining expenses, interest on outstanding bonds, and taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

203 U. S.

Chicago & N. TV. R. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Reagan v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Louisville & N. R.
Co. v. Brown, 123 Fed. Rep. 951; Southern Pacific v. Railroad
Commissioners, 78 Fed. Rep. 263.
Mr. J. M. Barrs, with whom 'Mr. W. H. Ellis, Attorney
General of the State of Florida, was on the brief, for defendant
in error in this case and in No. 9, argued simultaneously
herewith: I
The authority of the railroad commissioners, under the
constitution and laws of Florida, to make and enforce rates
for the transportation of freight and passengers from points
in Florida to points in Florida, is limited only by the provisions
of the Federal Constitution against the taking of. property
without due process of law; the right of the State to enforce
the orders of the state railroad coninission by mandamus
instituted originally in the Supreme Court of the State; the
regularity of the proceeding before the railroad commission
preliminary to the making of its orders; and the prima facie
correctness, justice and validity of the orders of the commission, an d the duty of the courts to enforce the orders of
the commission, in the absence of an affirmative showing
before the court made by the defendant in a mandamus proceeding sufficient to overcome the prima facie validity of the
orders of the commission,-are, we understand, not questioned
by the plaintiff in error, and are entirely manifest by reference
to the constitution and laws of Florida, and cannot be reviewed by this court. Florida Laws, 1899, ch. 4700, p. 76.
This court is precluded from reviewing the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Florida on the second assignment of error.
Tripp v. Santa Rosa St. R. Co., 144 U. S. 126; Iowa Cent. R.
Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; Grand Rapids, etc., R; Co. v. Butler,
159 U. S. 87; Wood v. Brady, 150 U. S: 18; Gibson v. Mississippi,
162 U. S. 565; French v. Holikins, .124 U. S. 524; La'ber v.
1

See p. 256, ante.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v.' FLORIDA.
203 IT. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Schrceder, 149 U. 'S. 580; Thorington v. Montgomery, 147 U. S.
490; McNulty v. California, 149 U. S. 645; Northern Pacific
R. Co. v. Patterson, 154 U. S. 130; O'Neill v. Vermont, 144
U. S. 323; Hibbin v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310; Smith v. Indiana,
191 U. S. 138.
The third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh assignments of
error -are in effect the same; and all are 'based on the final
decision of the Supreme Court of Florida. The eighth is a
blanket assignment which covers all the others. No Federal
question of: law is raised by any of the assignments. The Supreme Court of -Florida found the facts as stated in its opinion
and that finding is conclusive in this court. Hall v. Jordan,
15 Wall. 393; Carpenter v. Williams, 9 Wall. 785; Republican
River Bridge Co. v. Kansas Pac. R. Co., 92 U. S. 315; Martin
v. Marks, 97 U. S. 345; Kenney v. Effinger, 115 U. S. 577;
Quimby v. Boyd, 128 U. S. 488; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658; Hedrick v. Atchison &c. R. Co., 167 U. S. 673; Atchison
&c. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U.'S. 96; Backus vi. Fort St. Union
Depot Co.2 169 U. S: 557; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; In re
Buchanan, 158 U. S. 31; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U. S. 226; Missouri &c. R. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 513.
The Supreme Court of Florida, in their original jurisdiction
of mandamus cases, are the judges of the fact as well as of
the law. Columbia County v. Suwannee County, 2f Florida, 1.
The Supreme Court of Florida in their opinion in this case,
did not enuncidte any questionable principles of law. The
opinion is limited almost, if not quite, to their findings of facts
based on the testimony of the plaintiff in error before them.
Plaintiff in error has not shown sufficient facts to reverse
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida, if the court
should decide, contrary to our contention, and that the points
raised in the case are questions of mixed law and fact and properly reviewable by this court. Chicago,M. & St. P. R. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Chicago & G. T. R. Co v. Wellman,
143 U. S. 339; Reagan v. Farmers' Loon & T. Co., 154 U. S.
362; St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. G''l, 156 U. S. 649; Covington

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

& L. Tr. Co. v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578; Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466; San Diego L. & T. Co. v. Jasper,189 U. S. 439.
If this court could go back of the findings of fact of the
Supreme Court of Florida, it would be found that the Seaboard
Air Line Railway introduced in evidence to sustain its plea or
return absolutely nothing even tending to sustain the same,
confining itself to the introduction in evidence of two printed
reports, the one being a report of that company filed with the
Florida Railroad Commission for the year ending June 30,
1904, and the other the report of the state railroad commission for the year ending March 1, 1904. Neither of those
reports have the slightest relevancy to the issue in the cause.
Mi. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
There are no special findings of facts in these cases, and only
from an examination of the opinions filed by the Supreme
Court can we ascertain what its conclusions were or upon what
its judgments were based. It may well be doubted whether
a railroad company can rely, as evidence in its own behalf,
upon a report made and filed by it, and while a report of the
railroad commission to the Governor may undoubtedly be
used against it in an application made at its instance to secure
compliance with one of its orders, yet there is little in its report
which throws light upon the questions in these cases.
Referring to the first case, in which is presented the reasonableness of an order made by the commission respecting local
rates for business on, to or from the Florida West Shore Railway, we find it stated in the brief of the plaintiff in error that
the railroad commission on December 22, 1903, made an order,
to go into effect July 1, 1904, reducing local freight rates
generally; that from this order no appeal was taken; that in
November, 1903, an order was made reducing by ten per cent
rates on certain freights going over two or more roads, and
that from such order no appeal was taken. These are the

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. FLORIDA.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

orders referred to in the report of the commission to the Governor. But the order in controversy was made on June 25,
1903, to go into effect July 1, 1903, and is applicable solely
to the Florida West Shore road. Now, whether this order
of June 25, 1903, was simply operative to make the rates on
the Florida West Shore road the same as those then obtaining
generally in the State, or whether it made them higher or
lower than such rates, does not appear. For some reason
not disclosed the order touched only the local freight rates
to and from the Florida West Shore Railway and over the
Seaboard Air Line Railway. Even if the total receipts by
the latter company from local freight rates were insufficient
to meet what could properly be cast as a burden upon that
business, such insufficiency would not justify it in an inequality
of rates between different parts of the State, in one part too
high and in the other too low. The State might properly
insist that there should be equality in the rates-the conditions
being the same-and if nothing more was accomplished by
the order of the comnnission than to establish such equality
we cannot hold that the judgment of the Supreme Court was
erroneous.
With reference to the second of these cases, the order made
by the railroad commission is said by -the plaintiff in error to
be an "irregular, unjust and unreliable method of rate fixing,"
and this upon the theory that the order makes the rate per mile
the same for any distance, whether one mile or a hundred
miles. It appears that 16.43 per cent of all the local freight
business of the company in Florida comes from the carrying
of phosphates, and reference is made to several cases in which
the courts have noticed the fact that the cost of moving local
freight is greater than that of moving through freight, and the
reasons for the difference. But evidently counsel misinterpret
the order of the railroad commission. It does not fix the rate
at one cent per ton per mile. It simply provides that it shall
not exceed one cent per ton per mile, prescribes a maximum
which may be reduced by the railway company, and if distance

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

demands a reduction the company may and doubtless will
make it. In addition it must be borne in mind that it is to be
presumed that the railroad commission acted with full knowledge of the situation; that phosphates were in Florida possibly
carried a long distance, the place of mining being far from
the place of actual use or preparation for use. Further, when
we turn to the report of the railroad company (which of course
is evidence against it) we find that the company's average
freight receipt per ton per mile in the State of Florida was
8 A-50 mills; so that the rate authorized for phosphates was

nearly two mills per ton larger than such average. Under
these circumstances it is impossible to say that there was
error in the conclusions of the Supreme Court of the State,
and its judgments are
Affirmed.

HEYMAN v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 32.

Submitted October 17, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

In the absence of Congressional legislation goods moving in interstate commerce cease to be such commerce only after delivery and sale in the
original package.
The word "arrival" as used in the Wilson law means delivery of the goods to
the consignee, and not merely reaching their destination and expressions
to that effect in Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412 are not obiter.
The power of the State over intoxicating liquors, from other States in
original packages after delivery and before sale given by the Wilson law
does not attach before notice and expiration of a reasonable time for
the consignee to receive the goods from the carrier; and this rule is not
affected by the fact that under the state law the carrier's liability as
such may have ceased and become that of a warehouseman.
118 Georgia, 616, reversed.

THE. facts

are stated in the opinion.

