FRANCIS v. FRANCIS.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

FRANCIS v. FRANCIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 8. . Submitted October 10. 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.
A title in fee may pass to an individual by a treaty without the aid of an
act of Congress; and this rule having become a rule of property in the
State of Michigan in regard to lands reserved for Indians specified in the
Chippewa treaty of 1819, will not be disturbed, it not appearing that
the treaty has been misinterpreted.
A patent to an Indian of land reserved to him by a treaty simply locates the
land, the title to which passed under the treaty, and in the absence of
any provision of the treaty, or any act of Congress, a restriction in the
patent against alienation without the consent of the President is ineffectual, the Pregident having no authority by virtue of his office to
impose such a restriction.
Title to lands conveyed to an Indian in fee and which the Indian has power
to alienate may be acquired by prescription.
136 Michigan, 288, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Nathaniel T. Crutchfield, Mr. Thomas E. Webster, Mr.
James Vankleeck and Mr. Henry M. Duffield, for plaintiff in
error:
Indians being regarded as the wards of the Government
should be dealt with in the utmost good faith as respects
their rights under treaties, which should be construed, not
according to the technical meaning of the words, but in the
sense in which they would naturally be understood by the'
Indians. Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515; The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737, 760; Choctaw Nation v. United States, 119
U. S. 1, 27, 28; Jones v. Mechan, 175 U. S. 10.
The policy of the Government has been to permit only a
possessory or beneficial right in the lands occupied by Indians,
both nations and individuals, and the power of alienation except with the consent of the Government has been prohibited

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

by Acts of Congress of 1790, 1793, 1796 and 1802. Cherokee
Nation v. The State of Georgia, 5 Pet. 17; Buttz v. Northern
Pacific Railroad, 119 U. S. 67.
The tenure of individual Indians under reservations in treaties negotiated prior to June 30, 1834, was fixed by the act
of March 30, 1802. This tenure could not be changed without
the consent of both parties, the Indian holder and the Government; or by treaty with the Indian tribe. Schrimpscher v.
Stockton, 183 U. S. 290; United States v. Brooks, 10 How. 442.
The act of 1834 did not purport to repeal in any respect
the act of 1802, and ยง 12 of the former act did not in any
manner affect tenures acquired. under the latter. At most
it did no more than control and regulate tenures under treaties
or gTants thereafter made. Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1,
9, 12; Gaines v. Nicholson, 9 How. 365.
The right to protection against improvident alienation, as expressed in the act of 1802, was excepted from the operation of
the repeal clause of the Revised Statutes. Sections 5596 et seq.
The reservee and his heirs acquired only such title as was
controlled by the act of March 30, 1802. Though an estate
of inheritance, it was under this law alienable only with the
consent of the Government. Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1.
Inasmuch as the tract reserved had not been located in any
other manner, the patent is essential to designate the land
reserved, and the clause restricting alienation without consent
of the President was notice to the world of the Government's
understanding of the nature of the title granted,; and its acceptance by the reservee made this construction conclusive.
Best v. Polk, 18 Wall. 116; Niles v. Anderson, 5 How. (Miss.)
365; quoted in Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 20. The patent
issued to the reservee in 1827 contained no greater restriction
on the power of alienation than was already imposed by the
law itself. Doe v. Wilson, 23 How. 457; Crews v. Burcham,
1 Black, 352; Smith v. Stevens, 10 Wall. 321, 327; Auditor v.
Williams, 94 Michigan, 180; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 582.
Stockton v. Williams, 1 Doug. 546, and Dewey v. Campau,

FRANCIS v. FRANCIS.
203-U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

4 Michigan, 565,. distinguished. The questions and conditions
involved are entirely different.
The Bokowtonden patent was a necessary constituent of
plaintiff's title. The text of the patent was also evidence
-of the intent of the contracting parties to the treaty. It was
part of the res gestoo. Eagon v. Eagon, 60 Kansas, 697, 706;
Wharton, Civ' Ev., 8th ed., ยง 262; Humphreys v. Chilcat C.
.Co., 20 Oregon, 209; Cross v. Hoch, 149 Missouri, 325;, Pickering v. Lomax, 145 U. S. 310, 316.
Though the estate be fee simple, alienation may be restricted.
Libbey v. Clark, 14 Kansas, 435; S.C. 118U. S. 255; 4 Com.
Dig. Estates, 1; 7 Stat. 348; The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 740.
The claim of title: by adverse possession is fraudulent on its
face; the original and only instrument granting title showing
the incapacity of the grantee to convey.
As the doctrine of prescription is based upon the presumption of a grant, it necessarily follows that. only such rights
may. be prescribed for as are capable of being granted.; and a
grant will not b6 presumed where it could not lawfully be
made. 22 Am. Ene. of Law, title "Prescription," and authorities cited thereunder:
Mr. Chester L. Collins, for defendant in error:
By the provisions of the third article of said treaty, the
reservees became vested of a present alienable fee-simple
title and upon the treaty being executed, all that remained
to be done to complete the grant was to designate the land,
which was done by a patent, but could have been done by
survey and map, or by any other authenticated act -of the
proper officials.
The patent was not. necessary and is void as a conveyance;
its only office, if any, was to designate the land, which designation might have been provided for by any sufficient act of the
proper officers, by means other than by a patent.
Neither the treaty nor the patent mentions the names of
the reservees. This is not a defect in the grant of the treaty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. .

The question as to who were the reservees or their legal heirs
is a question of fact for a court or jury when the question might
arise. United States v. Brooks, 10 How. (U. S.) 460; Doe v.
Wilson, 23 How. (U. S.) 457; Crews v. Burcham, 1 Black (U. S.),
352; Best v. Polk, 18 Wall. 112; Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1;
Stockton v. Williams, 1 Walker Ch. (Mich.) 120; Stockton v.
Williams, 1 Doug. (Mich.) 546; Dewey v. Campau, 4 Michigan,
565 and cases cited on p. 566; Campau v. Dewey, 9 Michigan,
381 and cases cited on p. 433; Francisv. Francis, 136 Michigan,
288.
The provision in the patent limiting the reservee's right to
convey the land is void, and is not authorized or permitted
by the treaty. Mitchel v. United States, 9 Pet. 760; Pickering
v. Lomax, 145 U. S. 310; Lotnax v. Pickering, 173 U. S. 26;
Lykens v. McGrath, 184 U. S. 169; Schrimpscher v. Stockton,
183 U. S. 290; McGannon v. Straightlege, 32 Kansas, 524;
Sheldon v. Donohue, 40 Kansas, 346; Easton v. Salisbury, 2.1
How. 426; Sherman v. Buick, 93 U. S. 209.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action of ejectment was brought to recover the posses-

sion of certain lands in Bay County, Michigan, which the
plaintiff, Ann Francis, claims as tenant for her own life, and
which. are thus described in the declaration: "The east half,
the Bokowtonden reserve, excepting land heretofore owned
and occupied by F. A. Kaiser, and ten acres heretofore owned
and occupied' by Edward McGuiness, being in Township Fourteen, north range four east, and being a part of the Bokowtonden Reserve, conveyed by the United States to the children
of Bokowtonden and their heirs, by patent, dated November
sixth, A. D. 1827."
The defendants pleaded the general issue, giving notice that
-they would show that for more than twenty years next preceding the commencement of this action they and their grantors
had been in open, notorious, exclusive, and adverse possession

FRANCIS v. FRANCIS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and occupancy of the lands in question under claim and color
of title.
At the conclusion of the evidence the jury, by direction of
the court, returned a verdict for the defendants, upon which
judgment was rendered. That judgment was affirmed, upon
writ of error, by the Supreme Court of Michigan. 136 Michigan,
288.
By the treaty of September 24, 1819, made at Saginaw in
the Territory of Michigan and proclaimed March 25, 1820,
between the United States and the Chippewa Nation of Indians,
the lands comprehended within certain boundaries were forever ceded to the United States. But from that cession certain tracts were reserved for the use of the Chippewa Nation
of Indians. And by Art. 3 of the treaty it was provided that
"there shall be reserved, for the use of each of the persons
hereinafter mentioned 'and their heirs, which persons are all
Indians by descent, the following tracts of land: . . . For
the use of the children of Bokowtonden six hundred and fortyacres, on the Kawkawling River." 7 Stat. 203.
Subsequently, November 6, 1827, a patent was signed by
President Adams. It purported to have been issued pursuant
to that treaty, for a tract of six hundred and forty acres on
Kawkawling River, described by metes and bounds, "unto
the said children of Bowkotonden, and their -heirs forever,"
the patent containing these words, "but never to be conveyed
by them ,or their heirs without the consent and permission of
the President of the United States."
The particular land'here in question .is a part of the six
hundred and forty acres reserved by the above treaty for the'
use of the children of Bokowtonden and their heirs, and embraced by the patent of 1827. What rights were acquired,
under and by virtue *of the treaty, by those children? In
Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S.1, 8, 21, where one of the questions
was as to the nature of the title that passed under an Indian
treaty ceding lands to the United States, and which required
a certain number of acres to be set apart from the ceded lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

for a named Indian chief, this court said.: "Was it a mere
right of occupancy, with no power to convey the land except
to the United States or by their consent? Or was it substantially a title in fee simple with full power of alienation? Undoubtedly, the right of the Indian nations or tribes to their
lands within the United States was a right of possession or
occupancy only; the ultimate title in fee in those lands was in
the United States; and the Indian title could not be conveyed
by the Indians to any one but the United States without the
consent of the United States,"-citing Johnson v. McIntosh,
8 Wheat. 543; Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 17; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 544;'Doe v. Wilson, 23 How. 457, 463;
United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591; United States V. Kagama,
118 U. S. 375, 381; Buttz v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 119
U. S. 55, 67. But in that case, after- an extended review of
previous decisions, this court further said: "The clear r~sult
of this series of decisions is that when the United States, in a
treaty with an Indian tribe, and as part of 'the consideration
for the cession by the tribe of a tract of country to the United
States, make a reservation to a chief or other member of the
tribe of a specified number of sections of land, whether already
identified, or to be surveyed and located in the future, the
treaty itself converts the reserved sections into individual
property; the reservation, unless accompanied by words limiting its effect, is equivalent to a present grant of a complete
title in fee simple; and that title is alienable by the grantee
at his pleasure, unless the United States, by a provision of
the treaty, or of an act of Congress, ha'e expressly or impliedly
prohibited or restricted its alienation."
Did an alienable title in fee simple pass to the children of
Bokowtonden by virtue of the treaty .of 1819-20? That
que3tion was under consideration' in the courts of Michigan a
long while ago and was answered in the affirmative; and it
wouad seem that their construction of the provisions in question
has become a rule of property in'that State. In Stockton v.
Williams, 1 Walker's Ch. (Michigan) 120, 129, decided in 1840,

FRANCIS v. FRANCIS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the question was elaborately discussed and fully considered.
The treaty in that case-the same one involved here-contained
these words: "There shall be reserved, for the use of each of
the persons hereinafter mentioned and their heirs, which persons are all Indians by descent, the following tracts of land.
For the use of Mokitchenoqua .

.

.

each, six hun-

dred and forty acres of land, to be located at and near the
Grand Traverse of the Flint River in such manner as the President of the United States may direct." 7 Stat. 204. The
Chancellor said: "It makes no mention of a patent, nor does
it require the President or other officer of the Government,
after the lands have been located, to do any act whatever
recognizing the right of the several reservees to the different
sections. All it required of the President was to have the
lands located, at and near a particular place pointed out by
the treaty. To locate does not mean to patent, but to have
the several sections surveyed and marked out, and a map
made of them, showing the particular section belonging to
each of the reservees. This was done; and, when it was done,
this part of the treaty was fully executed on the part of the
Government. Nothing further was required to carry it into
effect, and the title then vested in the respective reservees,
unless we hold the treaty itself to be clearly defective, in not
providing for the exeoution of its several stipulations. A
patent, although the usual, is by no means the only mode in
which the title to the public domain can pass from the Government to an individual. It may pass by an act of Congress,
or by a treaty stipulation, as well as by a patent. The Indian
title to the land reserved, did not. pass to the United States by
the treaty, which operated as a release, by both the Indians
and Government, of all interest either had in the lands reserved
to the respective reservees, in fee simple; and it would be a
violation of the treaty for the Government to claim the land
in question." Upon appeal the Supreme Court of Michigan,
Stockton v. Williams, 1 Doug. 546, 558, 564, said: "The first
question to be determined is, what estate passed to the reservee

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

under the treaty? The third article is in the following words:
'There shall be reserved for the use of each of the persons
hereinafter mentioned, and their heirs, which persons are all
Indians by descent, the following tracts of land,' etc. 'For
the use of Mokitchenoqua, six hundred and forty acres of land,
to be located at and near the Grand Traverse of the Flint
liver, in such manner as the President of the United States
may direct.' It is very clear that, if a fee simple estate was
intended to be granted, the parties to the treaty were unfortunate in the choice of terms by-which to give effect to that intention; and yet it is difficult to conceive that any other estate
was in the contemplation of the parties at the time of its
execution. Will, then, the third article warrant such a construction? It will be observed that the reservation is to the
use of Mokitchenoqua and her heirs. No limitation as to the
time of holding, or restriction upon the right -of alienation, is
contained in the grant. The use of the word heirs, clearly
implies, that stch an estate was granted as would, upon her
death, dcscend to her legal representatives. Here, then, are
all the essential elements of a fee simple estate. This construction, we think, is justified by the words of the third article,
and is strengthened by the fact that it corresponds not only
with an opinion given by the Attorney General of the United
States, to the Secretary of War (Land Laws, part 2, pp. 96, 97),
but with the opinion of the Senate, a branch of the treaty
making power, which is certainly entitled to great consideration. 3d vol. Senate Doe. 1836, No. 197." Again, in the
saine case, the court said: "The location of the lands became
a duty devolving on, the President by the treaty. This duty
he could execute without an act of Congress; the treaty, when
ratified, being the supreme law of the land, which the President was bound to see executed. It was impossible to describe
the tract granted to any of the reservees in the treaty, as it is
matter of history that none of the lands ceded had ever been
surveyed. But locality is given to' the grant by the terms
of the treaty, with an authority to locate afterwards by a sur-

FRANCIS v. FRANCIS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vey making it definite. 10 Pet. 331. This authority being
executed, the grant then became, as valid to the particular
section designated by the President as though the description
had been incorporated in the treaty itself. We are, therefore,
of opinion that a fee simple passed to the reservee,.Mokitchenoqua, by force of the treaty itself, and that the rights of the.
parties could in no wise be affected by the subsequent act of
the President directing a patent to be issued."
In Dewey v. Campau, 4 Michigan, 565, 566, the court, interpre'ting the same troaty, said: "A title in fee, under this clause
of the treaty, passed, by this language, to the reservee. The
term reservation was equivalent to an absolute grant. The
title passed as effectually as if the grant had been executed.
The title was conferred by the treaty; it was not, however,
perfect until the location was made; the location was necessary
to give it identity. The location was duly made; and thus
the title to the land in controversy was consummated by
giving identity to that which was before unlocated." In
Campau v. Dewey, 9 Michigan, 381, 433, reference was made
to Stockton v. Williams, 1 Douglass, 546, above cited,. the court
saying: "This decision has, for sixteen years, been recognizedas.the law governing the titles under this treaty, at least, and
these must be quite numerous, many of which have doubtless
been bought and sold on the faith of this decision. We are,
therefore, compelled to recognize it as a rule of property which
we are not at liberty to disturb." These cases were not, in
any sense, modified by Attorney General v. Williams, 94 Michigan, 180, which was the case of an Indian treaty which expressly provided that the land there in question should never
be sold or alienated to any person or persons whomsoever,
without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior for the
time-manifestly a different case from the present one, in
which the treaty contained no restriction upon alienation.
The result of the cases cited is: . That this court and the
highest court of Michigan concur in holding that a title in fee
may pass by a treaty without the aid of an act of Congress,
VOL. ccTIT-1 (;

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

and without a patent. 2. That the construction of the treaty
here involved, whereby the respective Indians named in its
third article are held to have acquired by the treaty a title in
fee to the land reserved for the use of themselves, has become
a rule of property in the State where the land is situated.
That rule of property should not be disturbed, unless it clearly
involves a misinterpretation of the Words of the treaty of 1819.
We agree with the state court in holding that a title in fee
passed by the treaty to the children of Bokowt~nden, and that
the patent issued in 1827 only located or made definite the
boundaries of the tract reserved to them by the treaty.. It
follows that the words in the patent of 1827, "but never to be
conveyed by them or their heirs, without the consent and permission of the President of the United States," were ineffectual
as a restriction upon the power of alienation. The President
had no authority, in virtue of his office, to impose any such
restriction; certainly not, without the authority of an act of
Congress, and no such act was ever passed. The children of
Bokowtonden having then obtained by the treaty the right
to convey, there is no reason to doubt that title could be acquired by prescription. The evidence shows that the defendants and those through whom they claim, have had peaceable,
adverse possession of the premises in question continuously
for more than half a century prior to the commencement of
this action.
Without assigning other grounds in support of the ruling
below, the judgment of the Supreme Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE did not participate in the decision of

this case.

