MOYER v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

habeas corpus successively of the Supreme Court of the State
and of the Circuit Court of the United States. He should not
have been dismissed from court, and the action of the Circuit
Court in so doing should be reversed.
I also dissent in Nos. 250, 251, 265, 266 and 267. (See p.
222, post.)

MOYER v. NICHOLS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE
No. 250.

DISTRICT

OF

IDAHO.

Argued October 10, 11, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Pettibone v. Nichols, ante p. 192 followed; 85 Pac. Rep. 897, 902, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edmund F. Richardson and Mr. Clarence S. Darrow,
with whom Mr. John H. Murphy was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. James H. Hawley, with whom Mr. W. E. Borah was on
the brief, -for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

HARLAN-delivered the opinion of the court.

This case does not differ, in principle or in its facts, from
Pettibone v. Nichols, just decided. Moyer was also charged
with the murder of Steunenberg, and was arrested in Colorado,
upon the warrant of the Governor of that State, and taken
to Idaho, and delivered to its authorities. He was embraced
in the same indictment with Pettibone, and was held in custody
for trial under that indictment. He sued out a writ of habeas
'corpus from the Supreme Court of Idaho, but the writ was

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

dismissed by that court, Ex parte Moyer, 85 Pac. 897, and a
writ of error has been prosecuted to this court. That is case
No. 266 on our present docket. He then sued out a writ of
habeas corpus from the Circuit Court of the United States,
and his discharge being refused by the court, he prosecuted
the present appeal.
For the reason stated in Pettibone's case, the final order is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.
The final order of the Circuit Court of the United States for Idaho, in
Haywood v. Nichols, No. 251, on appeal, is affirmed on the authority of
Pettibonev. Nichols, ante, p. 192, from which, as to the facts or the qjuestions
involved, it does not differ. The orders in Pettibone v. Whitney, No. 265,
Morey v. Whitney, No. 266, and Haywood v. Whitney, No. 267-each of
which cases is here upon writ of error to the Supreme Court of Idaho-involve the same questions as those determined in Pettibone v. Nichols, and by
agreement is to depend upon the judgment in that case, must also be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUsTICE McKENNA dissents.

APPLEYARD v. MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 115.

Submitted November 16, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

The constitutional provision relating to fugitives from justice is in the nature
of a treaty stipulation entered into for the purpose of securing a prompt
and efficient administration of the criminal laws of the several States and
its faithful and vigorous enforcement is vital to their harmony and welfare; and while a State should protect. its people against illegal action,
FRderal courts should be equally careful that the provision be not so narrowly interpreted as to enable those who have offended the laws of one
State to find a permanent asylum in another.
A person charged by indictment, or affidavit before a magistrate, within
a State with the commission of a crime covered by its laws and who leaves
the State, no matter for what purpose nor under what belief, becomes

