CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERMS, 1905-1906.

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 14 of October Term, 1905.-Submitted October 19, 1905.-Restored to the docket,
for oral argument, November 6, 1905.-Argued April 23, 1906.-Decided May 28,
1906.-Opinion withheld until dissen filed, October 24, 1906.

The Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments operate solely on state action
and not on individual action. Unless the Thirteenth Amendment vests
jurisdiction in the National Government, the remedy for wrongs committed by. iddividuals on persons of African descent is through state
action and state tribunals, subject to supervision of this court by writ
of error in proper cases.
Notwithstanding the adoption of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments, the National Government still remains one of enumerated
powers, and the Tenth Amendment is not shorn of its vitality.
Slavery and involuntary servitude as denounced by the Thirteenth Amendment mean a condition of enforced compulsory service of one to another;
and while the cause inciting that amendment was the emancipation of
the colored race, it reaches every race and every individual.
The-result of the Amendments to the Constitution adopted after the Civil
War was to abolish slavery, and to make the emancipated slaves citizens
1
Vol,. ccIlI -1

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case,

203 U. S.

and not wards of the Nation over whom Congress retained jurisdiction.
This decision of the people is binding upon the courts, and they cannot
attempt to determine whether it was the wiser course.
The United States court has no jurisdiction under the Thirteenth Amendment. or sections 1978, 1979, 5508, 5510, Revised 'Statutes, of a charge
of conspiracy made and carried out in a State to prevent citizens of
African descent, because of their race and color, from making or carrying out contracts and agreements to labor.

ON October 8, 1903, the grand jury returned into the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Arkansas.-an indictment charging that the defendants, (now
.plaintiffs in error,) with others, "did knowingly, willfully and
unlawfully conspire to oppress, threaten and intimidate Berry
Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill,
Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George Shelton, citizehs of the
United States of African descent, in the free exercise and
enjoyment of rights and privileges secured to them and each
of them by the Constitution and laws of the United States
and because of their having. exercised the sarpe, to wit: The
said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe
McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George Shelton, being
then and there persons of African descent and citizens of the
United States and of the State of Arkanshs, had then and
there made and entered into contracts and agreements with
James A. Davis and James S. Hodges,1 persons then and there
doing business under the name of Davis'& Hodges as copartners, carrying on the business of manufacturers of lumber at
White Hall, in said county, the said contracts being for the
employment by said firm of the said Berry Winn, Dave
Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton,
Jim Hall and .George Shelton as laborers and workmen in
and about their said manufacturing establishment, by which
contracts the said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg,
Joe Mardis, Joe McCll, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George
Sheton were on their part to perform labor and services at
I Not the plaintiff in error.

I HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

said manufactory and were to receive, on the other hand, for
their labor and services, compensation, the same being a right
and privilege conferred upon them by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and the laws
passed in pursuance thereof, and being a right similar to that
enjoyed in said State by the white citizens thereof, and while
the said Berry Winn,. Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis,
Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall, and George Shelton were
in the enjoyment of said right and privilege the said defendants did knowingly,. willfully, and -unlawfully conspire as
aforesaid to injure, oppress, threaten, and intimidate them in
the free exercise and enjoyment of said right and privilege,
and because of their having so exercised the same and because they were citizens of African descent, enjoying said
right, by then and there notifying the said Berry Winn, Dave
Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton,
Jim Hall, and George Shelton that they must abandon said
contracts and their said work at said mill and cease to perform any further.labor thereat, or receive any further compensation for said labor, and by threatening in case they
did not so abandon said work to injure them, and by thereafter then and there willfully and unlawfully marching
and moving in a body to and against. the place of business
of the said firm while the said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton
Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall,
and George Shelton were engaged thereat and while they
.were. in the performance of said contracts thereon, the said
defendants being then and there armed with deadly weapons, threatening and intimidating the said workmen there
employed, with the purpose of compelling them by violence and threats and otherwise to remove from said place of
business, to stop said work and to cease the enjoyment of
said right and privilege, and by then and there willfully,
deliberately, and unlawfully compelling said Berry Winn,
Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall, and George Shelton to quit said work and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

abandon said place and cease the free enjoyment of all advantage§ under said contracts, the same being so done by
said defendants and each of them for the purpose of driving
the said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg,, Joe Mardis,
Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall, and George Shelton from
said place of business and from their labor because they were
c6lored men and citizens of African descent, contrary to the
form of the statute in such case made and provided, and against
the peace and dignity of the United States."
A demurrer to this indictment, on the ground that the
offense created by sections 1977 and 5508, Rey. Stat., under
which it was found, was not within the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States, but was judicially cognizable by
state tribunals only, was overruled, a trial had, and the three
plaintiffs in error found guilty, sentenced separately co imprisonment for different terms and to fine, and to be thereafter
ineligible to any office of profit or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the United States. Sections 1977, 1978,
1979, 5508 and 5510 read as follows:
"SEc. 1977. All persops within the jurisdiction of the

United States shall have the same right in every State and
Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, to be parties,
give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all laws
and proceedings for the security of persons and property as
is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses, and exactions of
every kind, and to no other.
"SEC. 1978. All citizens of the United States shall have the
same right, in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by
white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold,
and convey real and personal property.
"SEC.

1979. Every person who, under color of any statute,

ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory, subjects, 'or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the
United States or other person within the jurisdiction thereof
to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be. liable to the
party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress."
"SEc. 5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure,
oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or.enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of
his having so exercised the same; or if two or more persons
go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another,
with intent to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, they shall be fined
not more than five thousand dollars and imprisoned not more
than ten years; and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible
to any office, or place of honor, profit, or trust created by the
Constitution or laws of the United States."
"SEc. 5510. Every person who, under color of any law,
statute, ordinance, regulation, or custom, subjects, or causes
to be subjected, any inhabitant of any State or Territory to
the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities,
secured or protected by the 'Constitution and laws of the
United States, or to different punishments, pains, or penalties,
on account of such inhabitant being an alien, or by reason
of his color or race, than are prescribed for the punishment
of citizens, shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not more than one
year, or by both."
There being constitutional questions involved, the judgment was brought directly to this court on writ of error.
'Mr. James P. Clarke, Mr. L. C. Going and Mr. J. F. Gautney,
for plaintiffs in error, submitted:
Plaintiffs in error demurred and contended below and
contend here thatThe matters, things and allegations therein contained do
not constitute a public offense against the laws of the United
States; section 1977 of the Revised Statutes of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

203 U. S.

States, upon which the indictment is founded, is unconstitutional; sbction 1977 of the Revised Statutes, when taken. and
construed with section 5508 of the same, in so far as it creates
offenses and imposes penalties, is in violation of the Constitution; the offenses created by the said sections are not within
the jurisdiction of the United States, and are cognizable before state tribunals only.
The court below overruled the demurrer and sustained the
position of the Government on the ground that the right enjoyed by the African citizens set out in the indictment was a
right secured to them under the Constitution and the laws of
the United States. But see where in United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, this court held all rights are not so granted
or secui'ed. Whether one is so or not is a question of law to
be determined by the court, not the prosecutor.
This case is resolved into a simple question: Is the right
to contract one guaranteed or secured by the Constitution or
laws of the United States? Or, is the right of a citizen of
African descent to make or enforce a contract a right granted
or secured to himi by the Constitution or laws of the United
States?
The court below failed to recognize the distinction between
rights declared and recognized, but not granted or secured
by the Constitution and laws. Such a distinction exists and
has been noticed by this court. Logan v. United States, 144
U. S. 263, 286.
Citizenship under the laws of the various States of this
Union is not essential to the right to contract. Aliens are
permitted to contract, and to have and enforce the same
rights in reference thereto as citizens. The right to-contract
existed long prior to the Declaration of Independence, or the
adoption of the Constitution of the United States. The Thirteenth Amendment did nothing more than to create or make
a freeman of a slave. Since he became a freeman the municipal laws of the land give to him the right to contract, to sue
and be sued in the State or municipality in which he resides.

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The right to pursue or follow any of the ordinary vocations of
life are not created by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, but are among the inherent and inalienable .rights of
man, and are, therefore, not dependent for their existence
upon the Constitution. Butchers' Union V.' Crescent City
Co., 111 U. S. 746; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 13.
Admitting the facts alleged in the indictment to be true,
it does not follow that the conspiracy upon a part of certain
individuals to intimidate or interfere with a Negro citizen in
the performance of his contract fastens upon the Negro any
badge of slavery any more than it would be held to fasten a
badge of slavery upon a white man if his right to contract
should be interfered with by intimidations or threats.
The most that can be said of the acts alleged in the indictment is that they are a violation or in violation of the criminal laws of the State of Arkansas. The Thirteenth Amendment has respect not to distinction of race or class or color,
but to slavery.
The Constitution prohibits a State from passing a law
impairing the obligation of a contract. This did not give Congress power to provide laws for general enforcement of contracts, nor power to invest the courts of the United States
with power over contracts so as to enable parties to sue upon
them in these courts. Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S.3.
Examples of some of the rights guaranteed or secured by
the Constitution and'laws of the United States are those such as
patents, trade-marks, right to homestead public lands, to vote
in Federal elections, etc. United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S.
76.
But a conspiracy to intimidate and compel officers of a
mining company to discharge their employ6s, or to compel
the employds to leave the service of the company, is not an
offense against the laws of the United States. Pettibone V.
Uniied States, 149 U. S. 202.

The Emancipation Proclamation by removing the disability of slavery made the Negro a citizen and placed him upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

203 U. S.

the same plane before the law as the white race. United
States v. Rhodes, 1 Abb. (U. S.) 28; 1 Kent Com., 298 and note;
State v. Manuel, 4 Dev. & Batt. (N. C.) 28.
In the last-mentioned authority will be found an unanswerable argument upon that proposition. In discussing the
question of a free Negro, Judge Gaston, speaking for the court,
said: "Under the laws of this State, all human beings within
it who are not slaves fall within one of two classes, aliens or
citizens. Slaves manumitted here become free men, and all
free persons born within the State are citizens."
This case was cited and approved in State v. Newsom, 5.Ired.
(N. C.) 250.
If, on the other hand, the African citizen acquired his
rights of life, liberty and pursuit of happiness, which include
the right to contract, from the statutes under consideration or
the Thirteenth Amendment, he has acquired rights, privileges
and protection by virtue of that instrument which the white
man, by whom it was made, did not and could not secure to
himself.
According to the theory of the Government in this case,
when the color is changed and the white man becomes the
conspirator, and the citizen of African descent the victim, the
strong arm-of the Government can and will be stretched forth
to protect the citizen of African descent. It cannot be possible that the Thirteenth Amendment can give to the Congress of the United States the right to enact a code of municipal laws merely for the purpose of protecting citizens of
African descent in their right to contract.
If individuals should undertake to enforce upon citizens of
African descent or upon any other persons any form or badge
of slavery, it cannot be doubted that this would make a cause
of action cognizable in the United States courts.
The Peonage Cases, 197 U. S. 207, are all illustrations of
the applicability of the laws under discussion. As to the
constitutionality of section 5519 of the Revised Statutes, see
United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 626.

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The Attorney General, with whom Mr. Milton D Purdy,
Assistant to the Attorney General, and Mr. Otis J. Carlton,
Special Assistant to .the Attorney General, were on the brief
for the United States.
The question of law is:
Has a colored citizen of the United States of African descent
a right secured to him by the Constitution or laws-of the
United States to work at any-particular occupation or calling "as, Yfor example, in the capacity of a common laborer in
'the rmanufacture of. lumber-and, therefore, free from injury,
oppression, or interference on the part of individual citizens,
when the motive for such injury, oppression, or interference
arises solely from the fact that such laborer is a colored person of African descent?
This, question does not involve the constitutionality of
§ 5508, Rev. Stat., which is not open to doubt, Motes v. United
States,. 178 U. S. 458, but simply whether the phrase "any
right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws
of the United States," includes the right charged in this
.indictment as having been secured to the colored citizens .who
were driven away from work by the unlawful acts of individuals. in view of United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 545,
and Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 293, it is vain. to contend that the Federal Constitution secures to a citizen of the
United States the right to work at a given occupation or particular calling free from injury, oppression, or interference by
individual citizens. Even though such right be a natural or
inalienable right, the duty of protecting the -citizen in the
enjoyment of such right, free from individual interference,,
rests. alone with the State.
Unless, therefore, the additional element of infliction of an
injury upon one individual citizen by another, solely on
account of his color, be sufficient ground to redress such
injury the individual citizen suffering such injury must be
left for redress of his grievance to the state laws. In what
-may be called the old Constitution-the Constitution as it

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

203 U. 8.

stood before the war amendments-there were no provisions
which could be invoked to support § 1977. Art. IV, section 2, provided: "The citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
If this section were not inapplicable on other grounds, it could
not be invoked here, for it is prohibitive only of state action.
Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall.
418; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; United States v. Harris,
106 U. S. 629, 643; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 236.
And for a similar reason the power can not be sought in
the Fourteenth Amendment. United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.
214; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Civil
Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3; United States v. Harris, 106 U. S.
629; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127.
Under the Thirteenth Amendment, however, Congress may
enact laws operating primarily upon individuals, United States
v. Clyatt, 197 U. S. 207, and if § 1977 can not be sustained
under that Amendment the Government's case must fail.
The Thirteenth Amendment was intended to secure to the
colored race practical freedom. For its history, and history
of the Civil Rights Bill, see Cong. Globe, Vol. 69, pp. 474, 503;
speeches of Mr. Howard, Mr. Trumbull, Chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, and Mr. Cowan.
And as to the scope of the Amendment and the legislation
under it see Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; United States v.
Harris, 106 U. S. 629, 641; Clyatt v. United States, 97 U.. S. 207.
The Civil Rights Act of 1875, provided that the Negro,
equally with the white man, should have accommodation in
public places of amusement, hotels, and public conveyances,
but this court held in the Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, that
the denial of the social rights attempted to be secured by
the act of 1875, as distinguished from the fundamental rights
secured by the act of 1866, did not amount to the imposition
of a badge of slavery.
The Thirteenth Amendment has been considered in some

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Argument for the United States

other cases in this court, but an examination of them Is not
material to the discussion of this case. Plessy v. Ferguson,
163 U. §. 537; Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275.
This court has never held that the Thirteenth Amendment was not broad enough to 'permit of legislation such as
is contained in § 1977, Rev. Stat. We have seen, on the contrary, that Mr. Justice Field and Mr. Justice Harlan have
given the support of their opinions to the validity of the.
parent enactment. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 90,
91; Civil Rights Cases, 109*U. S. 3, 35.
The validity of the act of April 9, 1866, was sustained in
several cases in the lower courts of the United State6, and in
the state courts. United States v. Rhodes, 1 Abb. (U. S.) 28;
Matter of Elizabeth Turner, 1 Abb. (U. S.) 84; Smith v. Moody,
26 Indiana, 299, 306; People v. Washington, 36 California,
658; United States v. Cruikshank, 1 Woods, 308, 319.
The act of 1866, was held to be unconstitutional in a dissenting opinion in People v. Washington, supra, and in Bowlin
v. Commonwcalth, 2 Bush (Ky.), 5.
From the above authorities and extracts from speeches in
Congress, the Government contends that the people, having
clear notions of the status of the colored race and of what
attempts would be made to return it to its servile condition,
intended by the Thirteenth Amendment to grant and secure
practical freedom. It outrages our feelings of humanity to
believe that the men who had fought to free the slaves
merely intended to sever the 'legal ligament which bound
the slave to his master, leaving the latter at liberty to cut
him off from the fundamental rights which white men enjoyed. Such a narrow construction leaves the black race
in a state made worse by their emancipation by the breaking of the cord of self-interest which bound the slaveholder
to take care of his property. That motive would disappear
with the adoption of the Amenlment, and the people must
have foreseen that the former slaveholders would strive, by
individual action and through the reconstructed legislatures

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

203 U. S.

in the late rebellious States, to prevent the freedmen from
acquiring property, suing in the courts, giving evidence, and
in a great variety of ways endeavor to prevent those whom
they regarded as intended by the Almighty to be bondsmen
from enjoying the practical rights of freemen.
For this purpose the people used in the Amendment language which this court has said permits Congress to enact
legislation operating directly to punish the acts of individuals, not sanctioned by any color of state authority. Clyatt v.
United States, 197 U. S. 207.
The framers of that Amendment were familiar with the
provisions of the Constitution, and with that which gave
Congress power "To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or officer thereof."
As to what is appropriate legislation, see cases upholding
the fugitive slave laws, Prigg V. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539;
Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506. And legislation, like § 1977,
which declares that the black and white races shall be upon
an equality in the enjoyment of these rights, is apt and appropriate.
The intent of Congress, expressed in sections 1977 and 5508,
is to make it an offense for individuals, acting in combination, to injure or oppress the Negro, solely because of his color,
in his right to make and enforce contracts.
If rights are grante.d and secured by constitutional enactments, Congress may legislate to protect those rights against
individual action. United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Strauder
v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S.
339; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. 8. 651; United States v.
Waddell, 112 U. S. 76; Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 678; Logan
v. United States, 144 U. S. 263; Motes v. United States, 178
U. S. 458.
In Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S. 207, it was held that

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

the Thirteenth Amendment, unlike the Fourteenth and Fifteenth, gives Congress authority to enact legislation operating
upon individuals, and that the Fourteenth Amendment did
not take away from Congress the power to pass legislation
operating on individuals.
Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, held that slaves were not
hem free,
citizens. The Emancipation Proclanat, i, ,
and it 'may be admitted, made them .'I ,: -2 +'-7 U,.tcda
States, but it did not secure to them practical freedom. That
was done by the Thirteenth Amendment, and because, under
that Amendment Congress may enact legislation -acting primarily upon individuals, it may punish those who attempt
by concerted action to deprive the Negro of his right to contract solely for the reason that he is a Negro. If a conspiracy
should be entered into by blacks to hinder a white man, solely
on account of his color, from making and enforcing contracts,
Congress could legislate for such a case. That question, however, does not arise in this case.
If there be doubt whether the legislation of Congress,
§ 1977, Rev. Stat., be constitutional, the doubt should be
resolved in favor of its validity according. to the rule expressed
in Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213.
The Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3,-and see statement of
effect of opinion on p. 35-not only sustains this case, but it
is sustained on the broad ground that there inheres in, and
belongs to every man of every race everywhere within the
jurisdiction of the United States, all of the essential rights,
and pr*ivileges of a free man, and that the National Government has the right by direct legislation to protect him in the
enjoyment of his freedom.
This case was originally submitted on briefs. By the
court's direction, it has also been orally argued by the Government. Exigencies of the public welfare have little place
in a court of justice in the interpretation of the laws and the
Constitution. And yet they have some'place. They admonish us to search well all the sources of National power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

It is not legally important that in this or any other State
the remedy under the state laws is useless. If that be true,
that consideration can not control the interpretation of the
law and the interpretation of the Constitution. The war of
races is no longer a sectional war; it is as bitter in the State
of Chase and Giddings as it is in the State of Arkansas. If
the Negro who is in our midst can be denied the right to
work, and must live on the outskirts of civilization, he will
become more dangerous than the wild beasts, because he has
a higher intelligence than the most intelligent beast. He
will become an outcast lurking about the borders and living
by depredation.
There is but one refuge from that condition, and that is to
put himself back under some chosen master in the condition of
slavery itself. If the Nation has not the power at the verythreshold to say to those who declare against this or other
races, that as a race it shall not have one of the most essential rights of a free man, it is powerless indeed. The Government submits that it has that power. It was given to the
Nation by the Thirteenth Amendment, and this case is brought
within it.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

While the indictment was founded on sections 1977 and
5508, we have quoted other sections to show the scope of the
legislation of Congress on the general question involved.
That prior to the three post bellum Amendments to the
Constitution the National Government had no jurisdiction
over a wrong like that charged in this indictment is conceded; that the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments do
not justify the legislation is also beyond dispute, for they, as
repeatedly held, are restrictions upon state action, and no
action on the part of the State is complained of. Unless,
therefore, the Thirteenth Amendment vests in the Nation the
jurisdiction claimed the remedy must be sought through

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

state action and in state tribunals subject to the supervision
of this court by writ of error in proper cases.
In the Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 76, in definihg
the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several Statqs,
this is quoted from the opinion of Mr. Justice Washington in
Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. Cir. Ct. 371, 380.
" 'The inquiry,' he says, 'is, what are the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the several States? We feel no
hesitation in confining these expressions to those privileges
and immunities which are, in their nature, fundamental;
which belong, of right, to the citizens of all free governments;
and which have, at all times, been enjoyed by citizens of the
several States which compose this union, from the time of their
becoming free, independent and sovereign. What these fundamental principles are, it, wotuld be more tedious than difficult
to enumerate. They may, however, be all comprehended
under the following general heads: protection by the Government, the enjoyment of life and liberty, with the right to
acquire and possess property of every kind, and to pursue
and obtain happiness and safety; subject, nevertheless, to such
restraints as the Government may prescribe for the general
good of the whole.'
And after referring to other cases this court added (p. 77):
"It would be the vainest show of learning to attempt to
prove by citations, of authority, that up to the adoption of the
recent Amendments no claim or pretence was set up that those
rights depended on the Federal Government for their existence or protection, beyond the very few express limitations
which the Federal Constitution imposed upon the Statessuch, for instance, as the prohibition against ex post facto
laws, bills of attainder, and laws impairing the obligation of
contracts. But with the exception of these and a few ot'.er
restrictions, the entire domain of the privileges and immunities
of citizens of the States, as above defined, lay within the constitutional and legislative power of the States, and without
that of the Federal Government."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U, S.

Notwithstanding the adoption of these three Amendments,
the National Government still remains one of enumerated
powers, and the Tenth Amendment, which reads "the powers
not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people," is not shorn of its vitality. True the
Thirteenth Amendment grants certain specified and additional power to Congress, but any Congressional legislation
directed against individual action which was not warranted
before the Thirteenth Amendment must find authority in it.
And in interpreting the scope of that Amendment it is well to
bear in mind the words of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 188, which, though spoken more
than four score years ago, are still the rule of construction of
constitutional provisions:
"As men whose intentions require no concealment, generally employ the words which most directly and aptly express
the ideas they intend to convey, the enlightened patriots who
framed our Constitution, and the people who adopted it, must
be understood to have employed words in their natural sense,
and to have intended what they have said."
The Thirteenth Amendment reads:
"SEC. 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except
as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been
duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any
place subject to their jurisdiction.
"SEC. 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article
by appropriate legislation."
The meaning of this is as clear as language can make it.
The things denounced are slavery and involuntary servitude,
and Congress is given power to enforce that denunciation.
All understand by these terms a condition of enforced compulsory service of one to another. While the inciting cause
of the Amendment was the emancipation of the colored race,
yet it is not an attempt to commit that race to the care of the
Nation. It is the denunciation of a condition.and not a decla-

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ration in favor of a particular people. It reaches every race
and every individual, and if in any respect it commits one
race to the Nation it commits every race and every individual
thereof. Slavery or involuntary servitu le of the Chinese, of
the Italian, of' the Anglo-Saxon are as much within its compass as slavery or involuntary servitude of the African. Of
this Amendment it was said- by Mr. Justice Miller in Slaughter
House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 69, "Its-two short sections seem
hardly to admit of construction." And again: "To withdraw
the mind from the contemplation of this grand yet simple
declaration of the personal freedom of all the human race
within the jurisdiction of this Government

.

.

.

requires

an effort, to say the least of it."
A reference to the definitions in the dictionaries of words
whose meaning is so thoroughly understood by all seems an
affectation, yet in Webster "slavery" is defined as "the state of
entire subjection of one person to the will of another."- Even
the secondary meaning given recognizes the fact of subjection,
as "one who has lost the power of resistance; one who surrenders himself to any power whatever; as a slave to passion,
to lust, to strong drink, to ambition," and " servitude" is by the
same authority declared to be" the state of voluntary or compulsory subjection to a master."
It is said, however, that one of the disabilities of slavery,
one of the indicia of its existence, was a lack of power to
make or perform contracts, and that when these defendants, by
intimidation and force, compelled the colored men named in
the indictment to desist from performing their contract they
to that extent reduced those parties to a'condition of slavery,
that is, of subjection to the will of defendants, and deprived
them of a freeman's power to perform his contract. But every
wrong done to an individual by another, acting singly or in
concert with others, operates pro tanto to abridge some of the
freedom to which the individual is entitled. A freeman has
a right to be protected in his person from an assault and
battery. He is entitled to hold his property safe from tresvoI.. COi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

pass or appropriation, but no mere personal assault or trespass or appropriation operates to reduce the individual to a
condition of slavery. Indeed, this is conceded by counsel for
the Government, for in their brief (after referring to certain
decisions of this court) it is said:
"With these decisions, and many others that might be
cited, before us, it is vain to contend that the Federal Constitution secures to a citizen of the United States the right to
work at a given occupation or particular calling free from
injury, oppression, or interference by individual citizens."
"Even though such right be a natural or inalienable right,
the duty of protecting the citizen in the enjoyment of such
right, free from individual interference, rests alone with the
State.
"Unless, therefore, the additional element, to wit, the infliction of an injury upon one individual citizen by another,
solely on account of his color; be sufficient ground to redress
such injury the individual citizen suffering such injury must
be left for redress of his grievance to the state laws."
The logic of this concession points irresistibly to the contention that the Thirteenth Amendment operates only to
protect the African race. This is evident from the fact that
nowhere in the record does it appear that the parties charged
to have been wronged by the defendants had ever been themselves slaves, or were the descendants of slaves. They took
no more from the Amendment than any other citizens of the
United States. But if, as we have seen, that denounces a
condition possible for all races and all individuals, then a
like wrong perpetrated by white men upon a Chinese, or by
black men upon a white mah, or by any men upon any man
on account of his race, would come within the jurisdiction of
Congress, and that protection of individual ights which
prior to the Thirteenth Amendment was unquestionably
within the jurisdiction solely of the States, would by virtue
*of that Amendment be transferred to the Nation, and subject
to the legislation of Congress.

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But that it was not the intent of the Amendfhent to denounce every act done to an individual which was wrong if
done to a free man and yet justified in a condition of slavery,
and to give authority to Congress to enforce such denunciation, consider the legislation in respect to the Chinese. In
slave times in the slave States not infrequently every free
Negro was required to carry with him a copy of a judicial
decree or other evidence of his right to freedom or be subject
to arrest. That was one of the incidents or badges of slavery.
By the act of May 5, 1892, Congress required all Chinese
laborers within the limits of the United States to apply for
a-certificate, and any one who after one year from the passage of the act should be found within the jurisdiction of the
United States without such certificate, might be arrested and
deported. In Fong Yve Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698,
the validity of the Chinese deportation act was presented,
elaborately argued, and fully considered by this court.
While there was a division of opinion, yet at no time during
the progress of the litigation, and by no individual, counsel,
or court connected with it, was it suggested that the requiring of such a certificate was evidence of a condition of slavery.
or prohibited by the Thirteenth Amendment.
One thing more: At the close of the civil \war, when the
problem of the emancipated slaves was before the Nation, it
might have left them in a condition of alienage, or established them as wards of the Government like the Indian tribes,
and thus retained for the Nation jurisdiction over them, or
it might, as it did, give them citizenship.. It chose the latter.
By the Fourteenth Amendment it made citizens of all born
within the limits of -the United States and subject to its jurisdiction. By the Fifteenth it prohibited any State from
denying the right, of suffrage on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude, and by the Thirteenth it forbade
slavery or involuntary servitude anywhere within the limits
of the land. Whether this was or was not the wiser way to
deal with the great .problem is not a matter for the courts to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

203 U. S.

consider. It is for us to accept the decision, which declined
to constitute them wards of the Nation or leave them in a
condition of alienage where they would be subject to the
jurisdiction of Congress, but gave them citizenship, doubtless
believing that thereby in the long run their best interests
would be subserved, they taking their chances with other
citizens in the States where they should make their homes.
For these reasons we think the United States court had no
jurisdiction- of the wrong charged.'in the indictment.
The judgments arc rerersed, and the case remanded with in4tructions to sustain the demurrer to the indictment.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN

MR.
DAY,

JUSTIcE

concurs in the judgments.

HARLAN,

with whom concurs MR. JUSTICE

dissenting.'

The plaintiffs in error were indicted with eleven others in

the District Court of. the United States, Eastern District of
Arkansas, for the crime of having knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully conspired to oppress, threaten and intimidate Berry
Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan
Shelton, Jim Hall and George Shelton, persons of African
descent and citizens of the United States and of Arkansas, in
the free exercise and enjoyment of the right and privilegealleged to be secured to them respectively by the Constitution
,nd laws of the United States-of disposing of their labor
and services by contract and of performing the terms of such
contract without discrimination against them, because of
their race or color, and without illegal interference or by violent means."
Dissent announced May 28, 1906, but not filed until October 24, 1906.
2 The indictment charged that "the said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton,

Percy Legg, Joe 'Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George
SheloTI. being then and there persons of African descent, and citizens

of the United States and of the State of Arkansas, had then and there

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

The indictment was based primarily upon section 5508 of
the Revised Statutes, which provides: " SEC. 5508. If two or
more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or. enjoyment of any
right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws
of the United States, or because of his having so exercised the
made and entered into contracts and agreements with James A. Davis
and James S. Hodges, persons then and there doing business under the
name of Davis & Hodges, as copartners carrying on the business of manufacturers of lumber at White Hall, in said county, the said contracts being
for the employment by said firm of the said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton,
Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George
Shelton, as laborers and workmen in and about their said manufacturing
establishment, by which contracts the said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton,
Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George
Shelton, were on their part to perform labor and services at said manufactory and were to receive on the other hand for their labor and services
compensation, the same being a right and privilege conferred upon them
by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
and the laws passed in pursuance thereof, and being a right similar to that
enjoyed in said State by the white citizens thereof; and while 'the said Berry
Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim
Hall ar.d George Shelton, were in the enjoyment of said right and privilege
the said defendants did knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully conspire as
aforesaid to injure, oppress, threaten and intimidate then! in the fr~e exercise and enjoyment of said right and privilege, and because of their having
so exercised the same and because they were citizens of African descent
enjoying said right, by then and there notifying the said Berry Winn,
Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall
and George Shelton, that they' must abandon said contracts and their
said work at said mill and cease to perform any further labor thereat,
or receive any further compensation for said labor, and by threatening
in case they did not so abandon said work to injure them, and by thereafter then and, there wilfully and _unlawfully marching and moving in a
body to and against the places of business of the said firm while the said
Berry Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George Shelton, were engaged thereat and while they
were in the performance of said contracts thereon, the said defendants
being then and there armed with deadly weapons, threatening and in-timidating the said workmen there employed, with the purpose of compelling them by violence and threats, and otherwise to remove from said place
of business, to stop said work and to cease the enjoyment of said right
and privilege, and by then and there wilfully, deliberately and unlawfully

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLA,

and. Div, JJ., dissenting.

203 U. S.

same; or if two or more persons go in disiguise on the highway, or on the premises of another, with intent to prevent or
hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege
so secured, they shall be fined not more than five thousand
dollars and imprisoned not more than ten years, and shall,
moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office, or place of
honor, profit or trust created by the Constitution or laws of
the United States."
Other sections of the statutes relating to civil rights, and
referred to in- the discussion at the bar, although not, perhaps, vital to the decision of the present case, are as follows:
"SEc. 1977.

All persons within the jurisdiction of the United

States shall have the same right in every State and Territory
to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of persons and property as is enjoyed
by white citizens, and shall be subject to like punishment,
pains, penalties, taxes, licenses, and exactions of every kind,
and to no other." "SEC. 1978. All citizens of the United States
shall have the same right, in every State and Territory, as is
enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease,
sell, holdf and convey real and personal property." "SEc. 1979.
Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory, subjects,
or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or
other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation
of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Consticompelling said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe
McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Halt and George Shelton, to quit said work and
abandon said place and cease the. free enjoyment of all advantages under
said contracts, the same being so done by said defendants and each of
them for the purpose of driving the said Berry Winn, Dave Hinton, Percy
Legg, Joe Mardis, Joe McGill, Dan Shelton, Jim Hall and George Shelton,
from said place of business and from their labor because they were colore.]
men and citizens of African descent, contrary to the form of the statute
in such case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
United States.

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. 9.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

tution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an
action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress." "SEC. 5510. Every person who, under color of any
law statute, ordinance, regulation, or custom, subjects, or causes
to be subjected, any inhabitant of any State or Territory to the
deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities, secured or
protected by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
or to different punishments, pains, or penalties, on account of
such inhabitant being an alien, or by reason of his color or
race, than are prescribed for the punishment of citizens,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars, or by imprisonment not more than one year, or by
both."
A demurrer to the indictment was overruled, and the defendants having pleaded not guilty, they were tried before a jury,
and some of them-the present plaintiffs in error-were convicted of the crime charged, were each fined one hundred
dollars and ordered to be imprisoned for one year and a day.
A. motion for a new trial having been denied, they have brought
the case to this court.
In our consideration of the questions now raised it must be
taken, upon this record, as. conclusively established by the
verdict and judgmentThat certain persons-the said Berry Winn and others
above named with him-citizens of the United States, and of
Arkansas, and of African descent, entered into a contract,
whereby they agreed to perform for compensation service and
labor in and about the manufacturing business in that State
of a private individual;
That those persons, in execution of their contract, entered
upon and were actually engaged in performing the work they
agreed to do, when the defendants-the present plaintiffs in
error-knowingly and wilfully conspired to injure, oppress,
threaten and intimidate such laborers, solely because of their
having made that contract and because of their race and color,
in the free exercise of their right to dispose of their labor, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

203 U. .

prevent them from carrying out their contract to render such
service and labor;
That, in the prosecution of such conspiracy, the defendants,
by violent means, compelled those laborers, simply "because
they were colored men and'citizens of African descent," to quit
their work and abandon the place at which they were performing labor in execution of their contract; and,
.That, in consequence-of those acts of the defendant conspirators, the laborers referred to were hindered and prevented, solely because of their race and color, from enjoying the
right by contract to dispose of their labor upon such terms
and to such persons as to thefi seemed best.
Was the right or privilege of these laborers thus to dispose
of their labor secured to them "by the Constitution or laws
of the United States"? If so, then this case is within the very
letter of section 5508 of the Revised Statutes, and the judgment should be affirmed if that section be not unconstitutional.
But I need not stop to discuss the constitutionality of section 5508. It is no longer open to question, in this court,
that Congress may, by appropriate legislation, protect any
right or privilege arising from, created or secured by, or dependent upon, the Constitution or laws of the United States.
That is what that section does. It purports to do nothing
more. In Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, it was distinctly
adjudged that section 5508 was a valid exercise of power by
Congress. In Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 286, 293,
this court stated that the validity of section 5508 had been
sustained in the Yarbrough case, and, speaking by Mr. Justice
-Gray, said: "In United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 217,
decided at October term,1875, this court, speaking by Chief
Justice Waite, said: 'Rights and immunities created by or
dependent upon the Constitution of the United States can be
protected by Congress. The form and the manner of the protection may be such as Congress, in the legitimate exercise
of its legislative discretion, shall provide. These may be
varied to meet the necessities of the particular right to be

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. 9.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

protected.' " After referring to prior adjudications the court
in the Logan case also unanimously declared: "The whole
scope and effect of this series of decisions is that, while certain fundamental rights, recognized and declared, but not
granted or created, in some of the Amendments to the Constitution, are thereby guaranteed only against violation or
abridgment by the United States, or by the States, as the case
may be, and cannot therefore be affirmatively enforced by
Congress against unlawful acts of individuals; yet that ,every
right created by, arising under or dependent upon, the Constitution of the United States may be protected and enforced by Congress by such means and in such manner as Congress, in the
exercise of the correlative duty of protection, or of the legislative powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, may in
its discretion deem most eligible and best adapted to attain
t6ie object."
In Motes v. United States, 178 U. S. 458, 462, the language
of the court was: "We have seen that by section 5508, of the
Revised Statutes it is made an offense against the United
States for two or more persons to conspire to injure, oppress,
threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or
enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the
Constitution or laws of the United States-the punishment
prescribed being a fine of not- more than $5,000, imprisonment not more than ten years, and ineligibility to any office
or place of honor, profit or trust created by the Constitution
or laws of the United States. And by section 5509 it is provided that if in committing the above offense any other felony
or misdemeanor' be committed, the offender shall suffer such
punishment as is attached to such felony or misdemeanor by
the laws of the State in which the offense is committed. No
question has been made-indeed none could successfully be
:made-as to the constitutionality of these statutory provisions.
Ex patte Yarbrough, 110 U.S. 651; United States v. Waddell,
112 U. S.76. Referring to those provisions and to the clause
of the Constitution giving Congress authority to pass all laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

203 U. S.

necessary and proper for carrying into execution the powers
specifically granted to it, and all other powers vested in the
Government of the United States, or in any department or
officer thereof, this court has said: 'In the exercise of this
general power of legislation, Congress may use any means
appearing to it most eligible and appropriate, which are
adapted to the end to be accomplished, auid are consistent
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution.' Logan v.
United States, 144 U. S. 263, 283."
In view of these decisions it is unnecessary to examine the
grounds upon which the constitutionality of section 5508
rests; and I may assume that the power of the National Government, by appropriate legislation, to protect a right created
by, derived from or dependent in any degree upon, the Constitution of the United States cannot be disputed.
I come now to the main question-whether a conspiracy
or combination to forcibly prevent citizens of African descent,
solely because of their race and color, from disposing of their
labor by contract upon such terms as they deem proper and
from carrying out such contract, infringes or violates a right
or privilege created by, derived from or dependent upon the
Constitution of the United States.
Before the Thirteenth Amendment was adopted the existence of freedom or slavery within any State depended wholly
upon the constitution 'and laws of such State. However
abhorrent to many was the thought that human beings of
African descent were held as slaves and chattels, no remedy
for that state of things as it existed in some of the States
could be given by the United States in virtue of any power it
possessed prior to the adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment. That condition, however, underwent a radical change
when that Amendment became a part of the supreme law of
'the land and as such binding upon ,4l the States and all the
people, as.,well as upon every branch of government, Federal
and state. By the Amendment it was ordained that "neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

HARLAN AND DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall
exist within the United States or any place subject to their
jurisdiction"; and "Congress shall have power to enforce this
article by appropriate legislation." Although in words and
form prohibitive, yet, in law, by its own force, that Amendment destroyed slavery and all its incidents and badges, and
established freedom. It also conferred upon every -person
within the jurisdiction of the United States (except those
legally imprisoned for crime) the right, without discrimination against them on account of their race, to enjoy all the
privileges that inhere in freedom. It went further, however,
and, by its second section, invested Congress with power, by
appropriate legislation, to enforce its provisions. To thaiend,
by direct, primary legislation, Congress may not only prevent *the reestablishing of the institution of slavery, pure and
simple, but may make it impossible that any of its incidents or badges should exist or be enforced in any State or
Territory of the United States. It therefore became competent for Congress, under the Thirteenth Amendment, to make
the establishing of slavery, as well as all attempts, whether
in the form of a conspiracy or otherwise, to subject anyone to the badges or incidents of slavery offenses against the
United States, punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both.
And legislation of that character would certainly be appropriate for the protection of whatever rights were given or
created by the Amendment. So, legislation making it an offense against the United States to conspire toinjure or intimidate a citizen in the free exercise of any right secured by the
Constitution is broad enough to embrace a conspiracy of the
kind charged in the present indictment. "A right or immunity, whether created by the Constitution or dnly guaranteed by it, may be protected by Congress." This court so adjudged in Slra(uder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 310, as it
had previously adjudged in Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539,
and in United"States v. Ieese, 92 U. S.. 214. The colored laborers against. whom the conspiracy in question was directed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

203 U. S.

owe their freedom as well as their exemption from the incidents and badges of slavery alone to the Constitution of the
United States. Yet it is said that their right to enjoy freedom and to be protected against the badges and incidents of
slavery is not secured by the Constitution or laws of the United
States.
It may be also observed that the freedom created and
established by the Thirteenth Amendment was further protected against assault when the Fourteenth Amendment became a part of the supreme law of the land; for that Amendment provided that no State shall deprive any person of life,
liberty or property, without due process of law. To deprive
any person of a privilege inhering in the freedom ordained and
established by the Thirteenth Amendment is to deprive him
of a privilege inhering in the liberty recognized by the Fourteenth Amendment. It is true that the present case is not one
of deprivation by the constitution or laws of the State of the
privilege of disposing of one's labor as he deems proper. But
it is one of a combination and conspiracy by individuals
acting in hostility to rights conferred by the Amendment that
ordained and established freedom and conferred upon every
person within the jurisdiction of the United States (not held
lawfully in custody for crime) the privileges that are fundamental in a state of freedom, and which were violently taken
from the laborers in question solely because of their race and
color.
Let us see whether these principles do not find abundant
support in adjudged cases.
One of the earliest cases arising under the Thirteenth Amendment was that of United States v. Cruikshank, &c., 1 Woods,
308, .318, 320. It became necessary in that case for Mr. Justice Bradley, holding the Circuit Court, to consider the scope
and effect of the Thirteenth Amendment and the extent
of the power of Congress to enforce its provisions. Referring to the Thirteenth Amendment, that eminent jurist said
that "this is not merely a prohibition against the passage

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

HARLAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

or enforcement of any law inflicting or establishing slavery
or involuntary servitude, but it is a positive declaration that
slavery shall not exist .

.

.

So, undoubtedly, by the Thir-

teenth Amendment, Congress has power to legislate for the
entire eradication of slavery in the United States. This
Amendment had an affirmative operation the moment it was
adopted. It enfranchised four millions of slaves, if, indeed,
they had not previously been enfranchised by the operation
of the civil war. Congress, therefore, acquired the power not
only to legislate for the eradication of slavery, but the power
to give full effect to this bestowment of liberty on these millions of people' All this it essayed to do by the Civil Rights
Bill, passed April 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 27, by which it Was declared that all persons born in the United States, and not
subject t6 a foreign-power (except Indians, not taxed), should
be citizens of the United States; and that such citizens, of
every race and color, without any regard to any previous con-.
dition of slavery or involuntary servitude, should have the
same right in every State and Territory to make and enjorce
contracts, to sue, be parties, and give evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property,
.and to full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for
the security of persons and property, as is enjoyed by white
citizens, and should be subject to like punishment, pains,
and penalties, and to none other, any law, etc., to the contrary- notwithstanding. It was supposed that the eradication of slavery and involuntary servitude of every form
and description required that the slave should be made a citizen and placed on an entire equality before the law with the
white citizen, and, therefore, that Congress had the power,
under, the Amendment, to declare and effectuate these objects.

.

.

.

Conceding this to be true (which I think it is),

-Congress then had the right to go further and to enforce its declaration by-passing laws for the prosecution and punishment of
those who should deprive, or.attempt to deprive, any person of the
rights thus conferred upon them. Without having this power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

203 U. S.

Congress could not enforce the Amendment. It cannot be
doubted, therefore, that Congress had the, power to make it a penal
offense to conspire to deprive a person of, or to hinder him in, the exercise and enjoyment of the rights and privileges conferred by the
Thirteenth Amendment and the laws thus .passed in pursuance
thereof. But this power does not authorize Congress to pass
laws for punishment of ordinary crimes and offenses against persons of the colored- race or any other race. That belongs to the
state government alone. All ordinary murders, robberies,
assaults, thefts and offenses whatsoever are cognizable only
in the state courts, unless, indeed, the State should deny to
the class of persons referred to equal protection of the laws.
.

To illustrate: If in a community or neighborhood com-

posed principally of whites, a citizen of African descent, or of
the Indian race, not within the exception of the Amendment.,
should propose to lease and cultivate a farm, and a combination should be formed to expel him and prevent him from the
accomplishment of his purpose on account of his race or color, it
cannot be doubted that this would be a case w'ithin the power of
Congress to remedy and redress. It would be a case'of interference with the person's exercise of his equal rights as a citizen
because of his race. But if that person should be injured in
his person or property by any wrongdoer tor the mere felonious or wrongful purpose of malice, revenge, hatred or gain,
without any design to interfere with his rights of citizenship
or equality before the laws, as being a person of a different
race and color from the white race, it would be an ordinary
crime, punishable by the state laws only."
This was followed by the Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 20,
22, in which the court passed upon the constitutionality of
an act of Congress providing for the full and equal enjoyment by every race, equally, of the accommodations, advantages and facilities of theatres and public conveyances, and
other places of public amusement; and in which the court
also considered the scope and effect of the Thirteenth Amendment. In that ca'e the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Brad-

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

ley-who, as we have seen, delivered the judgment in the case
just cited-said: "By its own unaided force and effect it abolished slavery, and established universal freedom. Still, legislation may be necessary and proper to meet all the various
cases and circumstances to be affected by it, and to prescribe
proper modes of redress for its violation in letter oi spirit.
And such legislation may be primary and direct in its character; for the Amendment is not a mere prohibition of state laws
establishing or upholding slavery, but an absolute declaration that slavery or involuntary servitude shall not exist in
any part of the United States. It is true, that slavery cannot exist without law, any more than property in lands and
goods can exist without law; and, therefore, the Thirteenth
Amendment may be regarded as nullifying all state laws
which establish or uphold slavery. But it has a reflex character also, establishing and decreeing universal civil and
political freedom throughout the United States; and it is
assumed that the power vested in Congress to enforce the
article by appropriate legislation clothes Congress with power
to pass all laws necessary and proper for abolishing all badges
and incidents of slavery in the United States.

.

.

.

The

long existence of African slavery in this country gave us
very distinct notions of what it was, and what were its necessary incidents. Compulsory service of the slave for. the benefit
of the master, restraint of his movements except by the master's
will, disability to. hold property, to make contracts, to have a
standing in court, to be a witness against a white person, and
such like burdens and incapacities, were the inseparable incidents of the institution. Severer punishments for crimes were
imposed on the slave than on free persons guilty of the same
offenses.

.

We must not forget that the province and

scope of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments are
different; the former simply abolished slavery; the latter
prohibited the States from abridging the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; from depriving them
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

203 U. S.

from denying to any the equal protection of the law,. The
Amendments are different, and the powers of Congress under
them are different. What Congress has power to do under
one, it may not have power to do under the other. Under
the Thirteenth Amendment it has only to do with slavery
and its incidents. Under the Fourteenth Amendment it has
power to counteract and render nugatory all state laws and
proceedings which have the effect to abridge any of the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, or to
deprive them o? life, liberty or property without due' process
of law, or to deny to any of them the equal protection of the
laws. Under the Thirteenth Amendment, the legislation, so
far as necessary or proper to eradicate all forms and incidents
of slavery and involuntary servitude, 'may be direct and primary,
operating upon the acts of individuals, whether sanctioned by
state legislation or not; under the Fourteenth, as we have
already shown, it must necessarily be, and can only be, corrective in its character, addressed to counteract and afford
relief against state regulations or proceedings."
I participated in the decision of the Civil Rights Cases, but
was not able to concur with my brethren in holding the act
there involved to be beyond the power of Congress. But I
stood with the court in the declaration that the Thirteenth
Amendment not only established and decreed universal civil
and political freedom throughout this land, but abolished the
incidents or badges of slavery, among which, as the court
declared, was the disability, based merely on race discrimination, to hold property, to make contracts, to have a standing
in court, and to be a witness against a white person.
One of the important aspects in th present discussion of
the Civil Rights Cases, is that the court there proceeded distinctly upon the ground that although the constitution and
statutes of a State may not be repugnant to the Thirteenth
Amendment, nevertheless, Congress, by legislation of a direct
and primary character, may, in order to enforce the Amendment, reach and punish individuals whose acts are in hos-

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

HARLAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

tility to rights and privileges derived from or secured by or.
dependent upon that Amendment.
These views were explicitly referred to and reaffirmed in
the recent case of Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S. 207. That
was an indictment against a .singte individual for having
unlawfully and knowingly returned, for.cibly and against their
will, two persons from Florida to Georgia, to be held in the
latter State in a condition of peonage, in violation of the statutes of the United States, (Rev. Stat. 1900, 5526). A person
arbitrarily or forcibly held against his will for the purpose of
compelling him to render personal services in discharge of a
debt, is in a condition of peonage. It was not claimed in that
case that peonage was sanctioned by or could be maintained
under the constitution or laws either of Florida or Georgia.
The argument there on behalf of the accused was, in part,
that the Thirteenth Amendment-was directed solely against
the States and their laws, and that its provisions could not
be made applicable: to individuals whose illegal conducf was
not authorized, permitted or sanctioned by some act, resolution, order, regulation or usage of the State. That argument
was rejected by every member of this court, and we all agreed
that Congress had power, under the Thirteenth Amendment,
not only to forbid the existence of peonage, but to make it
an offense against the United States for any person to hold,
arrest, return or cause to be held, arrested or returned, or who
in any manner aided in the arrest or return of another person, to a 'condition of peonage. After quoting the above
sentences from the opinion in the Civil Rights Cases, Mr.
Justice Brewer, speaking for the court, said (p. 218): "Other
aUthorities to' the same effect might.be cited. It is not open
to doubt that Congress may enforce the Thirteenth'Amendmerit-by direct legislation, punishing the holding of a person
in slavery or ifnvoluntary servitude, except as a punishment
for crime. In the exercise of that power Congress has enacted
these sections denouncing peonage, and punishing one who
holds another in 'that condition of involuntary servitude.
VOL. cciII-3

OCTOBER. TERM, 1905.
DAY

and

HARLAN, JJ.,

dissenting.

203 U. S.

This legislation is not limited to the Territories or other parts
of the strictly National domain, bt is operative in the States
and wherever the sovereignty of the United States extends.
We entertain no doubt of the validity of this legislation, or
its applicability to. the case of any person holding another in a
state of peonage, and this whether there be municipal ordinance
or state law sanctioning such holding. It operates directly on
every citizen of the republic,, wherever his residence may be."
The Clyatt case proceeded upon the ground that, although
the Constitution and laws of the State might be in perfect harmony with the Thirteenth Amendment, yet the compulsory holding of one individual by another individual
for the purpose of compelling the former by personal service
to discharge his indebtedness to the latter created a condition
of involuntary servitude or peonage, was in derogation of the
freedom established by that Amendment, and, ,therefore,
could be reached and punished by the Nation. Is it. consistent with the principle upon which that case rests to say
that an organized body of individuals who forcibly -prevent
free citizens, solely because of their race, from making a living
in a legitimate way, do not infringe any right secured by the
National Constitution, and may not be reached or punished
by the Nation? One who is shut up by superior or overpowering fdrce, constantly present and threatening, from
earning his living in a lawful way of his own choosing, is as
much. in a, condition of involuntary servitude as if he were
forcibly held in a condition of peonage. In each. case his
will is enslaved, because illegally subjected, by a combination that he cannot resist, to the will of others in respect of
matters which a freeman is entitled to control in such way
as to him seems best. It would seem impossible, under
former decisions, to sustain the view that a. combination or
conspiracy of individuals, allbeit acting without the sanction
of the State, may not be reached and punished by the United
States, if the combination and conspiracy has for its object,
by force, to-prevent or burden the free exercise or enjoyment

HODGES v. UNITED STATES.
203 U. S.

H&LA

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

of a right or privilege created or secured by"the Constitution
or laws of the UnitedStates.
The only way in which the present case can. be taken out
of section 5508 is to hold that a combination or conspiracy
of individuals to prevent citizens of African descent, because
af their race, from freely disposing of their labor by contract,
does not infringe or violate any right or privilege secured by
the Constitution or laws of the United States. But such a
proposition, I submit, is inadmissible, if regard be had to
former decisions. As we have seen, this court has held that
the Thirteenth Amendment, by its own force, without the
aid of legislation, not only conferred freedom upon every
person (not legally held in custody for crime) within the
jurisdiction of the United States, but the right and privilege
of being free from the badges or incidents of slavery. And it
has declared that one of the insuperable incidents of slavery, as
it existed at the time of the adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment, was the disability of those in slavery to make contracts.
It has also adjudged-no-member of this court holding to
the contrary that any attempt to subject citizens to the incidents or badges of slavery could be made an offense against
the United States. If the Thirteenth Amendment established
freedom, and conferred, without the aid of legislation, the
right to be free from the badges and incidents of slavery, and
if the disability to .make or enforce contracts for one's personal- services'was a badge of slavery, as it existed when the
Thirteenth Amendment was adopted, how is it possible to
say that the combination or conspiracy charged in-the present
indictment, and conclusively established by the verdict and
judgment, was not in hostility to rights secured by the Constitution?
I have already said that the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment against' state action inconsistent with
due process of law is neither more nor less than the freedom
established by the Thirteenth Amendinent. This, I think, cannot be doubted. In A-geyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578,1589,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARL.A

AND DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

203 U. S.

we said that such liberty "means not only the right of the
citizen to be free from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the term is deemed to embrace
the right of the citizen to be free in the enjoyment of alltis.
faculties; to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live and'
work when he will; to earn his livelihood b.y any lawful calling;.
to pursue any livelihood or avocation, and for that purpose to enter
into all contracts which may be proper, necessary.and essential to
the carrying out to a .successful conclusion the purposes above
mentioned" All these rights, as this court adjudged in the
Allgeyer case, are embraced in the liberty which the, Fourteenth Amendment protects against, hostile state action,
when such state action is wanting in due process of law.
They are rights essential in the freedom conferred by the
Thirteenth Amendment. If, for instance, a person is prevented, because of his race, from living and working where
and for whom he will, or fromi-earning his livelihood by any
lawful calling that he may elect to pursue, then he is hindered
in the exercise of rights and privileges secured to freemen by
the Constitution of the United States. If secured by the
Constitutioq of the United States, then, unquestionably, rights
of that class are embraced by such legislation as that found
in section 5508.
The opinion of the court' it may be observed, does not, in
words, adjudge section 5508 to be unconstitutional. But if
its scope and. effect are not wholly misapprehended by me,
the court does adjudge that Congress cannot make it.
an
offense against the United States for individuals to combine
or conspire to prevent, even by force, citizens of .African'
descent, -solely because of their race, from earning a living.
Such is the import and practical effect of the present decision,
although the court ias heretofore unanimously hield that the
right to .earn one's livingin all legal ways, and to-make law-.
ful contracts in reference thereto, is a vital point of the freedom established by the Constitution, and although it has been
held, time and again,; that Congress may, by appropriate

HODGES v. UNITEDSTATES.
203 U..S.

HARLAx

and

DAY,

37

JJ, dissenting.:

legislation, grant, protect and enforce any right, derived
from, secured .or created. by, or !dependent upon that instruarement. These general. principles, it is to be, regretted,
now modified, so as to deny to millions of citizen-laborers of.
African4"descent, - deriving their freedom from the Nation,
the right to appeal for National protection against lawless
combinations of individuals who, seek,' by force, and solely
because of the race of such. laborers, to deprive them of-'the
fre edom established by the Constitution of the United States,
so far as that freedom involves: the right of such citizens,
without discrimination against them because of their race, to
.earn a living in.
all lawful ways, and to dispose of their labor
by contract. I cannot assent to an h'terpretation of the Constitution which 'denies* National -protection to vast numbers.
'of our people in respect of rights 'derived by them from the
Nation.' The interpfetation now -placed on the Thirteenth
Aliendment' is, I think, entirely too 'narrow and is hostile to
the freeddm established by the supreme law of the land.'. It
.goes far towards, neutralizing many declarations made as to
.the object of the recent Amendments of the, Constitution a
common purpose of which, this court has said, was to secure
to a people theretofore in servitude, the free -enjoymentV without.discrimination merely on account of their race, of, the essential .rights that appetain to Americap citizenship *and ,to
freedom, United States v. Reese, '92 'U: S. 214, 217; United
States- v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 555; Ex' parte :Virginia,
100 U. S. 339, 345; Strauder v. West Virginixa, 100 U. S. 303,
306; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370, 386; (Jvil Rights Cases,
109 U: S' 3, 23.
The objections urged to the view taken by the court are
not met by the suggestion that this court may revise the final
judgment of the state court, if it should deny to the complaining 'arty 'a:right 'secured by the Federal Constitution; 'for
the revisory power of. this court would be of no avail to the
complainingparty if it be true, as seems now to be adjudged)
that a coispiracy to deprive colored citizens, solely because of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

their race, of the" right to earn a living in a lawful: way, infringes no right secured to them by the Federal Constitution.
. As the Nation has destroyed both slavery and involuntary
servitude everywhere within the jurisdiction of the United
States and invested Congress with-power, by appropriate legislation, to protect the freedom thus established against all
the badges and incidents of slavery as it once existed; as the
disability to make valid contracts for one's services was, as
this court has said, an inseparable incident of the institution
of slavery which the Thirteenth Amendment destroyed; and
as a combination or conspiracy to prevent citizens of African
descent, solely because of their race, from making and performing such contracts, is thus in hostility to the rights and
privileges that inhere in the freedom established by that
Amendment, I am of olinion that the case is within section
5508, and that the judgment should be affirmed.
For these reasons, I dissent from the opinion and judgment
of the court.

NEW MEXICO ex rel. E. J. McLEAN & COMPANY v.
. DENVER & RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM. THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITDRY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 18.

Argued March 14, 15, 1906.-Decided October 15, 1906.

The right to legislate in the Territories being conferred under constitutional
authority, by Congress, the passage of a territorial law is the exertion

of an authority exercised under the United States, and the validity of
such authority is involved where the right of the legislature to pass an
act is challenged; and, in such a case, if any sum or value is in dispute,
an appeal lies to this court from the Supreme Court of a Territory under
* 2 of the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, even though the sum or
'value be less than $5,000.

