CALIFANO v. JOBST
Syllabus

CALIFANO, SECRETARY OF HEALTH, EDUCATION,
AND WELFARE v. JOBST
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI
No. 76-860.

Argued October 4, 1977-Decided November 8, 1977

Provisions of the Social Security Act specifying that secondary benefits
under the Act received by a disabled dependent child of a covered wage
earner shall terminate when the child marries an individual who is not
entitled to benefits under the Act, even though that individual is
permanently disabled, held not to violate the principle of equality
embodied m the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. Pp.
50-58.
(a) The general rule that entitlement to a child's statutory benefits
terminates upon marriage is rational. Congress, m lieu of requiring
individualized proof of dependency on a case-by-case basis, could assume
that marital status is a relevant test of probable dependency, a married
person being less likely than an unmarred person to be dependent on
his parents for support. Pp. 52-54.
(b) The exception provided for disabled children who marry individuals entitled to benefits under the Act to the general rule that marriage
terminates a child's statutory benefits is likewise rational. That exception, which is a reliable indicator of probable hardship, requires no
individualized inquiry into degrees of need or periodic review to determine continued entitlement. Moreover, Congress could reasonably take
one step to eliminate hardship caused by the general marriage rule
without at the same time accomplishing its entire objective. Williamson
v. Lee Optical Co., 348 U. S. 483. Pp. 54-58.
368 F Supp. 909, reversed.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion for a unammous Court.

Stephen L. Urbanczylc argued the cause pro hac mce for
appellant. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McCree, Assstant Attorney General Babcock, and William
Kanter
J D Riffel argued the cause and filed a brief for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U.S.

MR. JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question presented is whether Congress has the power
to require that a dependent child's social security benefits
terminate upon marriage even though his spouse is permanently disabled. Answering that question in the negative,
the District Court held that 42 U S. C. §§ 402 (d) (1) (D) and
402 (d) (5) deprive appellee of property without due process
of law Jobst v Rtchardson, 368 F Supp. 909. We reverse.
Mr. Jobst has been disabled by cerebral palsy since his
birth in 1932. He qualified for child's insurance benefits in
1957, several months after his father died. In 1970 he married another cerebral palsy victim. Since his wife was not
entitled to benefits under the federal Act,' the statute required
the Secretary to terminate his benefits.2
1 Mrs. Jobst was receiving welfare assistance from the Division of
Welfare of the State of Missouri, but was not receiving any social security
benefits under 42 U. S. C. §§ 401-432 (1970 ed. and Supp. V).
2Section 202 of the Social Security Act, 49 Stat. 623, as amended, 42
U. S. C. § 402 (1970 ed. and Supp. V), provides in pertinent part:
"(d) (1) Every child (as defined in section 416 (e) of this title) of an
individual entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits or of an
individual who dies a fully or currently insured individual, if such child"(A) has filed application for child's insurance benefits,
"(B) at the time such application was filed was unmarried and (i) either
had not attained the age of 18 or was a full-time student and had not
attained the age of 22, or (ii) is under a disability (as defined in section
423 (d) of this title) which began before he attained the age of 22, and
"(C) was dependent upon such individual-

"shall be entitled to a child's insurance benefit for each month, beginning
with the first month after August 1950 in which such child becomes so
entitled to such insurance benefits and ending with the month preceding
whichever of the following first occurs"(D) the month in which such child dies or marries,
"(5) In the case of a child who has attained the age of eighteen and who
marries-

CALIFANO v. JOBST
47

Opinion of the Court

Mr. Jobst brought this suit to review the Secretary's action.3 The District Court held that the statute violated the
equality principle applicable to the Federal Government
by virtue of the Fifth Amendment, Bolling v Sharpe, 347
U S. 497, because all child's insurance beneficiaries are not
treated alike when they marry disabled persons. Beneficiaries
who marry other social security beneficiaries continue to
receive benefits whereas those who marry nonbeneficiaries
lose their benefits permanently The court held this distinction irrational. 368 F Supp., at 913.
The Secretary appealed directly to this Court. 28 U S. C.
§ 1252. Noting that Mr. Jobst and his wife had become
entitled to benefits under a newly enacted statute authorizing
supplemental security income for the aged, blind, and disabled,4 this Court remanded the case for reconsideration in
the light of that program. Wemberger v Jobst, 419 U S.811.
"(A) an individual entitled to benefits under subsection (a), (b), (e),
(f), (g), or (h) of this section or under section 423 (a) of this title, or
"(B) another individual who has attained the age of eighteen and is
entitled to benefits under this subsection,
"such child's entitlement to benefits under this subsection shall, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection but sub3ect to
subsection (s) of this section, not be terminated by reason of such
marriage
"(s) (2)
[S]o much of subsectio[n]
(d) (5)
of this section
as precedes the semicolon, shall not apply in the case of any child unless
such child, at the time of the mamage referred to therein, was under a
"
disability
3 Mr. Jobst first exhausted his administrative remedies. A hearing
examiner found m his favor, ruling that the denial of benefits was unconstitutional. The Appeals Council reversed, it held that an administrative
agency has no power to rule on the constitutionality of the Act it
administers.
4
See Title XVI of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Social
Security Amendments of 1972, 86 Stat. 1465, 42 U. S. C. § 1381 et seq.
(1970 ed., Supp. V).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U. S.

The District Court reviewed the new program, concluded that
it had no relevance to the issues presented by this case, and
reinstated its original judgment. The Secretary again appealed, and we noted probable jurisdiction. 429 U S. 1089.
Although the District Court focused on the statutory consequences of a marriage between two disabled persons, the
Secretary argues that the relevant statutory classification is
much broader. We therefore first describe the statutory
scheme, then consider the validity of a general requirement
that benefits payable to a wage earner's dependent terminate
upon marriage, and finally decide whether such a general
requirement is invalidated by an exception limited to marriages between persons who are both receiving benefits.

I
As originally enacted in 1935, the Social Security Act
authorized a monthly benefit for qualified wage earners at
least 65 years old and a death benefit payable to the estate
of a wage earner who died at an earlier age. 49 Stat. 622624. In 1939 Congress created secondary benefits for wives,
children, widows, and parents of wage earners. See 53 Stat.
1362, 1364-1366. The benefits were intended to provide persons dependent on the wage earner with protection against
the economic hardship occasioned by loss of the wage earner's
support. Mathews v De Castro, 429 U S. 181, 185-186.
Generally speaking, therefore, the categories of secondary
beneficiaries were defined to include persons who were presumed to be dependent on the wage earner at the time of his
death, disability, or retirement.
Specifically, the child's benefit as authorized in 1939 was
available only to a child who was unmarried, under 18, and
dependent upon the wage earner at the time of his death
or retirement. 53 Stat. 1364. Since Mr. Jobst was 23 at the
time of his father's death, he would not have been eligible for
a child's benefit under the 1939 Act. Under that statute,

CALIFANO v. JOBST

47

Opinion of the Court

the child's benefit, like the benefits for widows and parents,
terminated upon marriage. 53 Stat. 1364-1366.
In 1956, Congress enlarged the class of persons entitled to
a child's benefit to include those who, like Mr. Jobst, were
under a disability which began before age 18.' For such a
person the benefit continued beyond the age of 18 but, as
with other secondary benefits, it terminated upon marriage.
In 1958, Congress adopted the amendment that created the
basis for Mr. Jobst's constitutional attack. The amendment
provided that marriage would not terminate a child's disability benefit if the child married a person who was also
entitled to benefits under the Act.

See 72 Stat. 1030-1031.

A similar dispensation was granted to widows, widowers,
divorced wives, and parents.' In each case the secondary
benefit survives a marriage to another beneficiary, but any
other marriage-even to a disabled person unable to provide
the beneficiary with support-is a terminating event unaffected by the 1958 amendment.
5

The 1956 amendment replaced the reqmrement that the child be under
18 at the time of application with a requirement that he be either under 18
or "under a disability
which began before he attained the age of
eighteen
" 70 Stat. 807 In 1972, Congress raised the age before
which the child's disability must begin from 18 to 22. 86 Stat. 1343-1345.
6 72 Stat. 1030-1032. The House Report explained the purpose of this

change:
"When a secondary beneficiary marries, such person's benefit is terminated under present law. If he marries a person who is or who will
become entitled to an old-age insurance benefit, he may qualify for a new
benefit based on the earnings of the new spouse. But if the new spouse is
also receiving a secondary benefit, the benefits of both are terminated and
ordinarily neither beneficiary can become entitled to any new benefits.
Your committee's bill would eliminate the hardship in these cases by
providing that marriage would not terminate a benefit where a person
receiving mother's, widow's, widower's, parent's, or childhood disability
benefits marries a person receiving any of these benefits or where a person
receiving mother's or childhood disability benefits marries a person entitled
to old-age insurance benefits." H. R. Rep. No. 2288, 85th Cong., 2d Sess.,
18 (1958).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977

Opinion of the Court

434 U. S.

It was the failure of Congress in 1958 to create a larger
class of marriages that do not terminate the child's benefit for
disabled persons that the District Court found irrational.
II
The provision challenged in this case is part of a complex
statutory scheme designed to administer a trust fund financed,
in large part, by taxes levied on the wage earners who are
the primary beneficiaries of the fund. The entitlement of
any secondary beneficiary is predicated on his or her relationship to a contributing wage earner. If the statutory
requirements for eligibility are met, the amount of the benefit is unrelated to the actual need of the beneficiary See,
e. g., Mathews v De Castro, supra, at 185-186. The statute
is designed to provide the wage earner and the dependent
members of his family with protection against the hardship
occasioned by his loss of earnings, it is not simply a welfare
program generally benefiting needy persons. Califano v
Goldfarb, 430 UJ S. 199, 213-214 (opinion of BRENNAN, J)
Nor has Congress made actual dependency on the wage
earner either a sufficient or a necessary condition of eligibility
in every case." Instead of requiring individualized proof on
a case-by-case basis, Congress has elected to use simple
criteria, such as age and marital status, to determine probable
dependency 8 A child who is marred or over 18 and neither
No doubt there are many distant relatives and unrelated persons who
do not qualify for benefits even though they are actually dependent on a
wage earner. Similarly, some married children and some 19-year-old
children remain dependent on their parents because they are unable to
support themselves while their younger brothers and sisters may be
self-sufficient.
8 The idea that marriage changes dependency is expressed throughout
the Social Security Act. Most secondary beneficiaries are eligible only
if they have not married or remarried. See 42 U S. C. § 402 (b) (1) (C)
(divorced wives), § 402 (e) (1) (A) (widows), § 402 (f) (1) (A) (widowers),
§ 402 (g) (1) (A) (surviving or divorced mothers), § 402 (h) (1) (C)
7

CALIFANO v. JOBST
47

Opinion of the Court

disabled nor a student is denied benefits because Congress
has assumed that such a child is not normally dependent on
his parents. There is no question about the power of Congress
to legislate on the basis of such factual assumptions. General
rules are essential if a fund of this magnitude is to be admnistered with a modicum of efficiency, even though such rules
inevitably produce seemingly arbitrary consequences in some
individual cases. Wemberger v Salfi, 422 U S. 749, 776.
Of course, a general rule may not define the benefited class
by reference to a distinction which irrationally differentiates
between identically situated persons. Differences in race,
religion, or political affiliation could not rationally justify a
difference in eligibility for social security benefits, for such
differences are totally irrelevant to the question whether one
person is economically dependent on another. But a distinction between married persons and unmarried persons is of a
different character.
Both tradition and common experience support the conclusion that marriage is an event which normally marks an
important change in economic status. Traditionally, the
event not only creates a new family with attendant new
responsibilities, but also modifies the pre-existing relationships
between the bride and groom and their respective families.
Frequently, of course, financial independence and marriage
do not go hand in hand. Nevertheless, there can be no question about the validity of the assumption that a married person is less likely to be dependent on his parents for support
than one who is unmarried.
Since it was rational for Congress to assume that marital
(parents). With some limited exceptions, §§ 402 (e) (4) and (f) (5), marnage or remarriage marks the end of secondary benefits. §§ 402 (b) (1) (H)
(1970 ed., Supp. V), 402 (e) (1), 402 (f) (1), 402 (g) (1), and 402 (h) (1).
In each case, however, Congress has excepted marriages to some social
security beneficiaries. §§ 402 (b) (3), 402 (e) (3), 402 (f) (4), 402 (g) (3),
and 402 (h) (4).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U. S.

status is a relevant test of probable dependency, the general
rule which obtained before 1958, terminating all child's benefits when the beneficiary married, satisfied the constitutional
test normally applied in cases like this. See Mathews v
De Castro, 429 U S., at 185, Wemnberger v Salfi, supra, and
cases cited at 768-770. That general rule is not rendered
invalid simply because some persons who might otherwise have
married were deterred by the rule or because some who did
marry were burdened thereby I For the marriage rule cannot
be criticized as merely an unthinking response to stereotyped
generalizations about a traditionally disadvantaged group," or
as an attempt to interfere with the individual's freedom to
make a decision as important as marriage."
The general rule, terminating upon marriage the benefits
payable to a secondary beneficiary, is unquestionably valid.
III
The question that remains is whether the 1958 amendment
invalidates this general rule by carving out an exception for
marriages between beneficiaries.
The exception does create a statutory classification, but it is
not as narrow as that described by the District Court. The
District Court identified the relevant classification as one
distinguishing between (1) the marriage of a disabled bene9 Thi proposition is not questioned by appellee. "As a general premise
the Secretary undoubtedly correctly concludes it is reasonable to terminate
social security payments to child beneficiaries in the event of marriage."
Brief for Appellee 21.
'0 See Wemberger v Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S. 636, Jimenez v Weinberger,
417 U. S. 628; Loving v Virginia,388 U S. 1.
1 See Whalen v Roe, 429 U S. 589, 599-600, 603. Congress adopted
this rule in the course of constructing a complex social welfare system that
necessarily deals with the intimacies of family life. This is not a case in
which government seeks to foist orthodoxy on the unwilling by banning, or
crinmnally prosecuting, nonconforming marriages. See Loving v Virginia,
supra. Congress has simply recognized that marriage traditionally brings
changed responsibilities.

CALIFANO v. JOBST
47

Opinion of the Court

ficiary to another disabled person who is receiving social
security benefits and (2) the marriage of a disabled beneficiary
to another disabled person who is not receiving benefits. It is
true that persons in the former category are treated more
favorably than those in the latter category It is also true that
persons in the latter category may have as great a need for
benefits as those in the former category But it is not correct
to conclude, as the District Court did, that only disabled
persons are affected by the exception, or that the legislative
classification is wholly irrational.
Both the class of persons favored by the 1958 amendment
and the class which remaans subject to the burdens of the
general marriage rule include persons who are not disabled.12
The broad legislative classification must be judged by reference
to characteristics typical of the affected classes rather than by
focusing on selected, atypical examples. When so judged,
both the exception and its limits are valid.
The 1958 amendment reflects a legislative judgment that a
marriage between two persons receiving benefits will not
normally provide either spouse with protection against the
economic hardship that would be occasioned by the termination of benefits. The Secretary submits, and we agree, that it
was reasonable for Congress to ameliorate the seventy of the
earlier rule by protecting both spouses from the dual hardship
which it effected."
22

As we have seen, the burden of the general marriage rule is not limited

to disabled beneficiaries; children, widowers, widows, divorced wvves, and
parents-all are affected by the rule. And although the District Court
singled out for analysis marriages to disabled nonbeneficiaries, Congress
did not; Mr. Jobst would also have lost his benefits if he had marred an
able-bodied woman who was not receiving social security benefits. Finally,
the protection extended by the 1958 amendment encompasses many more
persons than those described by the District Court. Like the marriage
rule itself, the amendment affects widows, widowers, parents, and divorced
wives, as well as disabled children. See n. 8, supra.
13 The fact that marriage characteristically signifies the end of a child's

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U. S.

Mr. Jobst argues, however, that the reason for the amendment applies equally to his situation. He urges that his
hardship is just as great as that which the amendment avoids
when one beneficiary marries another, because his spouse is
also disabled. He therefore attacks the exception as irrationally underinclusive. 4 We are persuaded, however, that,
even if the benign purpose of the 1958 amendment encompasses this case, 5 legitimate reasons justify the limits that
Congress placed on it. See Richardson v Belcher, 404 U S.
78. The exception, like the general rule itself, is simple to
dependency on parental support justifies a general rule terminating benefits
when a child marries. The fact that a marriage between two spouses who
are both receiving dependents' benefits does not characteristically signify a
similar change m economic status justifies the exception. In other words,
since the justifying characteristic of the general class does not apply to the
excepted class, the exception rests on a reasonable predicate. This is true
even though some members of each class may possess the characteristic
more commonly found m the other class.
14 Even if we were to sustain his attack, and even though we recogmze
the unusual hardship that the general rule has inflicted upon him, it would
not necessarily follow that Mr. Jobst is entitled to benefits. Cf. Stanton v
Stanton, 421 U S. 7, 17-18; Stanton v Stanton, 429 U S. 501. For the
vice m the statute stems from the exception created by the 1958 amendment; that vice could be cured either by invalidating the entire exception
or by enlarging it. Since the choice involves legislation having a nationwide impact, the equities of Mr. Jobst's case would not control. See
Developments in the Law-Equal Protection, 82 Harv L. Rev 1065, 11361137 (1969). If we were to enlarge the exception, it would be necessary
to fashion some new test of need, dependency, or disability Although
the District Court only granted relief for persons marrying a "totally
disabled" spouse, its rationale would equally apply to any marriage of a
secondary beneficiary to a needy nonbeneficiary
15 We note, however, that Congress could have rationally concluded that
beneficiaries who marry other beneficiaries present a more compelling case
for legislative relief than beneficiaries who marry needy nonbeneficiaries.
Secondary beneficiaries who marry each other lose two sets of benefits and
thus may suffer a greater loss than does a couple that sacrifices only one
set of benefits.

CALIFANO v. JOBST
47

Opinion of the Court

administer. It requires no individualized inquiry into degrees
of hardship or need."6 It avoids any necessity for periodic
review of the beneficiaries' continued entitlement. In the
cases to which the exception does apply, it is a reliable
indicator of probable hardship. Since the test is one that may
be applied without introducing any new concepts into the
administration of the trust fund,'7 Congress could reasonably
take one firm step toward the goal of eliminating the hardship
caused by the general marriage rule without accomplishing its
entire objective in the same piece of legislation. Williamson
v Lee Optcal Co., 348 U S. 483, 489. Even if it might have
been wiser to take a larger step, the step Congress did take
16 In the very Act that created the exception for marriages between
beneficiaries, Congress showed its reluctance to use individualized determinations in allocating social security benefits. The 1958 amendments
abolished a requirement that disabled children over 18 prove their individual
dependency on the wage earner to qualify for benefits. Pub. L. 85-840
§ 306, 72 Stat. 1030. Congress concluded that these beneficiaries should
be "deemed dependent" because "the older child who has been totally
disabled since before age 18 is also likely to be dependent on his parent."
H. R. Rep. No. 2288, 85th Cong., 2d Sess., 17 (1958)
17A logical application of Mr. Jobst's position would permit the Secretary
to end benefits only after an individual determination of disability or need.
Congress, however, has sought to make social security payments independent of individual need, while establishing a separate program to serve those
who are needy but ineligible for social security benefits. The Supplemental Security Income program is a federally funded welfare program
administered through the Social Security Administration. Its purpose is
plainly stated by H. R. Rep. No. 92-231, p. 147 (1971)
"[S]ome people who because of age, disability, or blindness are not able to
support themselves through work may receive relatively small social
security benefits. Contributory social insurance, therefore, must be complemented by an effective assistance program."
Mr. and Mrs. Jobst became eligible for the Supplemental Security Income
program as soon as it was instituted. On remand the parties stipulated
that, based on the couple's need, they were receiving monthly payments
only $20 less than the amount they would have been receiving if Mr.
Jobst's child's benefits had been restored.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U. S.

was in the right direction and had no adverse impact on
persons like the Jobsts.
It is true, as Mr. Jobst urges, that the limited exception may
have an impact on a secondary beneficiary's desire to marry,
and may make some suitors less welcome than others. But
unless Congress should entirely repudiate marriage as a terminating event, that criticism will apply to any limited exception
to the general rule. No one suggests that Congress was
motivated by antagonism toward any class of marriages or
marriage partners not encompassed by the exception. Congress' purpose was simply to remedy the particular injustice
that occurred when two dependent individuals married and
simultaneously lost their benefits.
We are satisfied that both the general rule and the 1958
exception are legitimate exercises of Congress' power to decide
who will share in the benefits of the trust fund. The favored
treatment of marriages between secondary beneficiaries does
not violate the principle of equality embodied in the Due,
Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
The judgment is reversed.
It ts so ordered.

