BARTHULI v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES

1337

Opinion in Chambers

BARTHULI v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF JEFFERSON
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-247

Decided September 20, 1977

Application for stay, pending the filing of a petition for certiorari, of the
California Supreme Court's judgment affirming a judgment denying
applicant a writ of mandate to compel his reinstatement to an administrative position, with respondent School District, is denied, where there
is doubt whether certiorari would be granted, where applicant has not
demonstrated that irreparable injury will result from denial of the stay,
and where it is also doubtful whether a Circuit Justice has the power
to grant the stay consistent with the Art. III limitations on his powers.
See: 19 Cal. 3d 717, 566 P 2d 261.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

Applicant Roger Barthuli seeks a stay of the judgment of
the Supreme Court of California in the case of Barthuli v
Board of Trustees, 19 Cal. 3d 717, 566 P 2d 261 (1977), pending his filing of a petition for writ of certiorari to review that
judgment. The Supreme Court of California held that the
applicant, who had an employment contract with the respondent School District as an associate superintendent of business,
was not entitled to notice and a hearing before being discharged from that position. Although I am not entirely
confident that four Justices of this Court will not vote to grant
applicant's petition for certiorari when filed, my doubt on that
score combined with the failure of applicant to demonstrate
any irreparable injury has led me to deny the requested stay
I also have serious reservations whether the requested stay is
consistent with the Art. III limitations on my powers.
Applicant, after being discharged, filed suit in the California
courts seeking a writ of mandate reinstating him to his administrative position. The Supreme Court of California, by a
vote of five to one, decided that applicant had no statutory

1338

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

right to continue in his position as associate superintendent of
business. It stated that he did have a statutory right to
continue as a tenured classroom teacher and that the latter
right could be enforced by writ of mandate, applicant, however, has never sought reinstatement as a classroom teacher.
The Supreme Court of Califorma further held that under
California law an employee cannot obtain specific performance
of an employment contract where he has an adequate remedy
at law in an action for damages, the Supreme Court affirmed
the finding of the lower court that applicant's damages action
was adequate.
The relevant cases of this Court dealing with the due
process rights of public employees discharged from their positions are Board of Regents v Roth, 408 U S. 564 (1972),
Perry v Sindermann,408 U S. 593 (1972), Arnett v Kennedy,
416 U S. 134 (1974), and Btshop v Wood, 426 U S. 341
(1976)
Examining the various views expressed in Arnett,
supra, a majority of the Court might conclude that California's
refusal to grant specific performance where there is an adequate remedy at law acts as a limitation upon the expectation
of the employee in continued employment, which is a necessary
condition to a constitutional claim under Roth, alternatively,
a majority might conclude that the expectancy embraces the
performance of the promise contained in the contract. For
myself, I would adhere to the former view, and would be
inclined to think that this is not one of the "rare" cases in
which the "federal judiciary has required a state agency to
reinstate a discharged employee for failure to provide a pretermination hearing." Bishop v Wood, supra, at 349 n. 14.
But I am not prepared to confidently assert that four of my
colleagues might not think otherwise.
Applicant, in order to secure a "stay" of the judgment of
the Supreme Court of California, must show not only a
reasonable probability that certiorari will be granted in his
case but also that irreparable injury will result in the event

BARTHULI v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES
1337

'

Opinion in Chambers

that a stay is denied. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
California simply affirmed a judgment of the Superior Court
denying applicant a writ of mandate to compel his reinstatement as an associate superintendent of business in respondent
School District. Obviously, a "stay" of the judgment of the
Supreme Court of California will accomplish nothing whatever
for applicant. He does not seek the extraordinary interim
remedy of a mandatory injunction requiring his reinstatement
to the position he previously held, he was dismissed from
that position in 1973, his unsuccessful litigation in the state
courts of California has apparently consumed the intervening
four years, and in his application to me he expressly disavows
any desire to "undo or alter" that dismissal.
A "stay" of the judgment of the Supreme Court of California such as applicant seeks would affect no present rights of
either applicant or respondent. Given the Art. III limitation
of our jurisdiction to "Cases" and "Controversies," I therefore
have serious reservations whether the limited and abstract
stay which applicant seeks is even within my power to grant.
"It is only where rights, in themselves appropriate subjects of
judicial cognizance, are being, or about to be, affected prejudicially" that this Court or Members thereof can take judicial
A stay of
action. Texas v ICC, 258 U S. 158, 162 (1922)
the judgment of the Supreme Court of California in these
circumstances would amount to nothing more than "a mere
declaration m the air." Giles v Harms, 189 I S. 475, 486
(1903)
See also United Public Workers v Mitchell, 330
U S. 75, 89-90 (1947), Ashwander v TVA, 297 U S. 288,
324 (1936)
I accordingly decline to issue the stay

