DIVANS v. CALIFORNIA

1303

Opinion in Chambers

DIVANS v. CALIFORNIA
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-91.

Decided July 28, 1977

Application for stay of applicant's second state criminal trial pending the
filing and disposition of a petition for certiorari in this Court is denied,
where the first trial resulted in a mistrial upon applicant's motion
because of a prosecutorial error found by the trial judge to be of the
kind not intentionally committed to provoke a mistrial request.

MR. JUSTICE REHEHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.
Applicant has requested that I stay the commencement of
his second trial in the Superior Court of Santa Clara County,
Cal., pending the filing and disposition of a petition for certiorari here. His first trial aborted as a result of the trial
judge's declaration of a mistrial upon applicant's motion. I
have determined the application should be denied.
Any order granting a mistrial at the behest of a defendant
in a criminal case is typically based upon error or misconduct
on the part of other counsel or the court. In order to elevate
such a typical order into one which could form the basis of
a claam of double jeopardy, it must be shown not only that
there was error, which is the common predicate to all such
orders, but that such error was committed by the prosecution
or by the court for the purpose of forcing the defendant to
move for a nstrial.
"The Double Jeopardy Clause does protect a defendant
against governmental actions intended to provoke mstrial requests and thereby to subject defendants to the
substantial burdens imposed by multiple prosecutions.
It bars retrials where 'bad-faith conduct by judge or prosecutor,' United States v Jorn, [400.U S.,] at 485 threatens the '[h] arassment of an accused by successive prosecutions or declaration of a mistrial so as to afford the

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

prosecution a more favorable opportunity to convict' the
defendant. Downum v United States, 372 U S., at 736."
United States v Dinitz, 424 U S. 600, 611 (1976)
The finding of the Superior Court that the prosecutorial error
which resulted in the original mistrial in this case was of the
former and not the latter.kind convinces me that this Court
would not grant certiorari to review the applicant's double
jeopardy claim.

