NEW MOTOR VEHICLE BOARD v. ORRIN W

FOX CO.

1345

Opinion in Chambers

NEW MOTOR VEHICLE BOARD OF CALIFORNIA v.

ORRIN W FOX CO ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-451.

Decided December 6, 1977

Application to stay District Court's judgment enjoining enforcement of the
provisions of the California Automobile Franchise Act relating to the
establishment and relocation of franchised motor vehicle dealerships on
the ground that such enforcement violated the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, is granted, pending the filing and disposition of a jurisdictional statement, on the condition that all orders
required by the Act fixing the times and places of hearings on protests
against relocation or establishment of dealerships shall be issued and
served by applicant Board concurrently with the required notification
to the franchisor. Statutes are presumptively constitutional and, absent
compelling equities on the other side (which are not present here),
should remain m effect pending a final decision on the merits by this
Court.

MR. JusTIcE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

Applicant, the New Motor Vehicle Board of the State of
California, has requested me to stay a judgment of the United
States District Court for the Central District of California
That judgment enjoined
entered on October 19, 1977
Automobile
Franchise Act
enforcement of the California
(Cal. Veh. Code Ann. §§ 3060-3069 (West Supp. 1977)), insofar as that Act's provisions relate to the establishment and
relocation of franchised motor vehicle dealerships.
The pertinent provisions of the Act provide that before an
automobile manufacturer or its proposed or existing dealer
may establish a new dealership or relocate an existing one
notice of such intention must be given to the Board and to
all existing dealers for the "same line make" (direct competitors) within the "relevant market area." § 3062. Upon
receiving such a notice any dealer may file within 15 days a
protest against the proposed establishment or relocation, and

1346

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion m Chambers

434 U. S.

the Board is thereupon required to order the postponement
of the establishment or relocation of the dealership pending
hearing and final decision on the merits of the protest. Failure to comply with the order is a misdemeanor under California law, and can result in the suspension or revocation of
the license of a manufacturer or dealer.
Upon receipt of a protest, the Board is also required to issue
an order fixing a time for the hearing, which is to commence
within 60 days following the order.1 Without further elaborating the statutory proceedings relating to the hearing and
ultimate decision of the Board, I am satisfied that the District
Court correctly concluded that in the normal course of events
manufacturers and dealers wishing to establish or relocate a
franchise would be prevented from doing so for a period of
several months during which the hearing is conducted and the
Board renders its decision.
Respondents, General Motors Corp. and two Southern California retail automobile dealers, brought an action seeking to
enjoin the enforcement of these provisions of the Act. The
three-judge District Court granted the relief requested by
these respondents, and expressed the view that "the right to
grant or undertake a Chevrolet dealership and the right to
move one's business facilities from one location to another"
fell within the ambit of liberty interests protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment. The court further concluded, citing
Fuentes v Shen, 407 U S. 67, 84-86 (1972), Snmadach v
Family Finance Corp., 395 U S. 337 (1969), and Mullane v
Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U S. 306, 313 (1950), that
I It is unclear under the statute whether the same communication should
contain both the order enjoining the proposed establishment or relocation
of the dealership and the order setting the date of the hearing. In the
case of one of the respondents in the instant action, the Board set the
hearing date six weeks after issuing the injunction. The District Court,
however, interpreted the statute to require the injunction and the order
setting the hearing date to be promulgated concurrently

NEW MOTOR VEHICLE BOARD v. ORRIN W FOX CO.
1345

1347

Opimon in Chambers

under the Due Process Clause this "liberty" could be curtailed
only after a hearing. Here, the court reasoned, since respondents were deprived of their "liberty" to move or establish a
dealership for many months pending the Board's decision,
enforcement of the statute occasioned a "gross violation of the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment." '2
Upon consideration of the application and the response, I
have decided that the stay should be granted conditioned as
hereinafter indicated. Because the case presumably will be
coming to us by appeal and will therefore be within our obligatory jurisdiction, I feel reasonably certain that four Members of the Court will vote to note probable jurisdiction and
hear the case on the merits, and I am also of the opinion that
a majority of the Court will likely reverse the judgment of
the District Court. Cf. Graves v Barnes, 405 U S. 1201,
1203-1204 (1972) (PowELL, J., in chambers) It should
not be necessary to add that neither of these matters can be
predicted with anything like mathematical certainty, and the
respondents for whom judgment is stayed are free to move the
full Court to vacate a stay if they feel the Circuit Justice has
miscalculated on these points.
I believe the District Court was wrong when it decided
2 The

court also thought this statute permitted action distinguishable

from that authorized in Fahey v. Mallonee, 332 U S. 245 (1947) (statute
permitting Government to summarily seize banks in serious financial difficulty), or Ewing v. Mytinger & Casselberry, 339 U S. 594 (1950)
(procedure for summary seizure of misbranded drugs by Government)
Here there was no provision authorizing a public official to exercise discretion as to whether the public interest required immediate action, but
rather the injunction automatically followed a protest by a competitor.
The court also thought the acts authorized under the statute differed
from the act of a party obtaining a restraining order pending hearing.
A party seeking a restraining order must make a persuasive showing of
irreparable harm and likelihood of prevailing on the merits. No such
showing was required of the competitor before his protest turned into an
injunction under the statute.

1348

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

that an automobile manufacturer has a "liberty" interest protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to locate a dealership wherever it pleases, and was also
wrong when it concluded that such a protected liberty interest
could be infringed only after the sort of hearing which is
required prior to ceasing a constitutionally protected property
interest. Our cases in this difficult area do not offer crystalclear guidance, and I venture my own analysis of the problem
fully realizing that it is not apt to be the last word authoritatively spoken on the subject.
Meyer v Nebraska, 262 U S. 390, 399 (1923), did indeed
state that the right to liberty guaranteed by the Due Process
Clause included the right "to engage in any of the common
occupations of life," and went on to say that such liberty could
not be interfered with "under the guise of protecting the public interest, by legislative action which is arbitrary or without reasonable relation to some purpose within the competence
of the State to effect." Id., at 399-400. Meyer, I think, was
what many would call a "substantive due process" case, where
the legislature had flatly prohibited or limited a particular
type of action without regard to individualized differences
among potential actors. For example, five years after Meyer
the Court held that the Due Process Clause prohibited States
from limiting fees charged by employment agencies. RibThis decision was not
nik v McBrzde, 277 U S. 350 (1928)
based on any procedural defect in the statute, because the
New Jersey statutory scheme made no provision for individualized determinations as to what fees might be charged, the
statute by its terms set the limits, and no fact that could have
been proved at a hearing would have been grounds under the
statutory scheme for avoiding the limits imposed by the
statute. The sort of substantive due process analysis
embodied in cases such as Ribnik, supra, has long since faded
from the scene, and that case itself was expressly overruled in
While it may well
Olsen v Nebraska, 313 U S. 236 (1941)

NEW MOTOR VEHICLE BOARD v. ORRIN W FOX CO.
1345

1349

Opinion in Chambers

be that there remains a core area of liberty to engage in a
gainful occupation that may not be "arbitrarily" denied by the
State, I do not think that the claim to establish an automobile dealership whenever and wherever one chooses is within
that core area. Prior to the enactment of the Act here in
question, respondents were not restrained by state law of this
kind from so doing, but the absence of state regulation in the
field does not by itself give them a protected "liberty" interest
which they may assert in a constitutional attack on newly
enacted limitations on their previously unrestricted ability to
locate a dealership.
The cases upon which the District Court specifically relied
in concluding that the California Act was unconstitutional
were, as noted above, Fuentes, supra, Snadach, supra, and
Mullane, supra. But all of these cases involved "property"
interests found to be protected under the Due Process Clause
against deprivation without prior hearing. There is no question that these cases state the law with respect to property
interests such as were involved in them. But I cannot accept,
and do not believe that a majority of this Court would accept,
the proposition that respondents' "liberty" interest in establishing a car dealership was also a "property" interest which
is protected against deprivation without prior hearing in the
same manner as were the property interests involved in
Fuentes, supra, Smadach, supra, and Mullane, supra. The
State of California was not seizing any existing tangible property interest of respondents by this Act, it was simply requiring them to delay establishment of a dealership on property
which they presumably owned or leased or were in the process
of buying or leasing until the Board considered and decided
the protests against the proposed establishment. The suggestion that one has a right to conduct whatever sort of business
he chooses from property he owns or leases was rejected at
least as long ago as Euclid v Ambler Realty Co., 272 U S.
365 (1926), see City of Eastlake v Forest City Enterprises,

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion m Chambers

434 U. S.

Inc., 426 U S. 668 (1976), Village of Belle Terre v Boraas,
416 U S. 1 (1974) -

If California had by statute conferred upon automobile
manufacturers and dealers the right to establish and relocate
franchises wherever they chose, and then imposed a procedural
hurdle such as the one here in question before the right could
be effectuated, the case would be close to decisions such as
Arnett v Kennedy, 416 U S. 134 (1974), and Btshop v Wood,
But the respondents had no
426 U S. 341, 348-349 (1976)
such statutorily conferred entitlement or property right before
the passage of this Act, they were free to locate their franchises where they chose, subject to state and local restrictions
of differing kinds, simply because the State had not chosen
to limit that freedom by legislation. When the State later
decided to impose the limits here in question, and establish
the hearing procedures which it did, I think it deprived
respondents of neither "liberty" nor "property" within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
Constitution.4
Respondents also attack the statute on the grounds that it conflicted

with the federal antitrust laws. The District Court did not pass upon this
contention.
4The stated concerns which prompted enactment of the Act were "to
dealer by the vehicle manuavoid undue control of the independent
facturer or distributor and to insure that dealers fulfill their obligations
under their franchises and provide adequate and sufficient service to consumers generally" 1973 Cal. Stats., ch. 996, § 1. This concern has
prompted at least 18 other States to enact statutes which prescribe conditions under which new or additional dealerships may be permitted m the
territory of the existing dealership. See Ariz. Rev Stat. Ann. § 281304.02 (1976), Colo. Rev Stat. § 12-6-118 (1974), Fla. Stat § 320-642
(1975), Ga. Code §84-6610 (f)(8), (10) (1975), Haw Rev Stat.
§ 437-28 (b) (22) (B) (Supp.. 1975), Iowa Code § 322AA (Supp. 19771978), Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. 93B, § 4 (3) (1) (West 1972 and Supp.
1977-1978), Neb. Rev Stat. § 60-1422 (1974), N. H. Rev Stat. Ann.
§ 357-B:4 (III) (1) (Supp. 1975), N. M. Stat. Ann. § 64-37-5 (P) (Supp.
1975) N. C. Gen. Stat. § 20-305 (5) (1975), R. I. Gen. Laws § 31-5.1-4

NEW MOTOR VEHICLE BOARD v. ORRIN W FOX CO.
1345

1351

Opinion in Chambers

Respondents argue that the State is not injured by the
injunction because the proposed relocations are almost invariably approved, and therefore even if the District Court was
wrong on the merits a stay should not be granted. This argument casts too narrowly the purpose of the statute and the
injury to the State, however. The interest of the State does
not necessarily find expression through disapproval of relocation plans, but rather through the act of examming the proposed relocations to make sure that existing dealers are not
being impermissibly harmed by the manufacturer and that
the move is otherwise in the public interest. This interest
is infringed by the very fact that the State is prevented from
engaging in investigation and examination. And the occasion for this review may arise often during the time this
injunction is in effect. In an affidavit presented to the District Court, Sam W Jennings, Executive Secretary of the New
Motor Vehicle Board, indicated that in the first 44 days following the issuance of the District Court's injunction, the
Board received 99 notices of intent to relocate or establish new
dealerships in California. Under the terms of the injunction,
all those applicants will be allowed to locate dealerships without undergoing any scrutiny by the State. And assuming the
State eventually prevails on the merits and the injunction is
lifted, it is not at all clear that the New Motor Vehicle Board
will have the authority to examine the propriety of all those
relocations or to force those relocated dealerships to stop
doing business. It also seems to me that any time a State is
enjoined by a court from effectuating statutes enacted by
representatives of its people, it suffers a form of irreparable
injury
(C) (11) (Supp. 1976), S. D. Comp. Laws Ann. §§ 32-6A-3, 32-6A-4
(1976), Tenn. Code Ann. § 59-1714 (j) (1968), Vt. Stat. Ann., Tit. 9,
§ 4074 (c) (9) (Supp. 1977), Va. Code § 46.1-547 (d) (Supp. 1977),
W Va. Code § 347-17-5 (i) (Supp. 1977), Wis. Stat. § 218.01 (3) (f)

(1957)

Congress has also taken remedial action. See Automobile Deal-

er's Day m Court Act, 70 Stat. 1125, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1222-1225.

1352

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion in Chambers

434 U. S.

Respondents further argue that they are delayed in completing the necessary business arrangements for establishing
or relocating, and this often results in losing the opportunity
to locate in a particularly desirable spot. This irreparable
injury outweighs any short-term interest the State has in
enforcing the statute, they argue. While respondents' contentions are not completely without force, I am ultimately
unpersuaded. Respondents may undergo some hardships
because of the delay between the protest and the hearing, but
the statute appears to minimize the delay, and the applicant
appears to agree to abide by such a construction, at least for
purposes of this stay In its proposed stay order presented
to the District Court applicant suggested a provision along
the following lines:
"FURTHER ORDERED that pending determination
of said appeal, all orders required by California Vehicle
Code section 3066, subdivision (a), fixing the times and
places of hearings upon protests against relocation or
establishment of dealerships shall be issued and served by
defendant New Motor Vehicle Board concurrently with
the notification required to be made by the Board
to the franchisor under California Vehicle Code section
3062
They have indicated a willingness to have this same provision
incorporated into a stay issued by me. Under these conditions, I think the hardship worked on respondents by the
statutory scheme does not outweigh the dazmage done to the
State by the injunction and therefore I grant the proposed
stay on the terms described above. As I have said before,
statutes are presumptively constitutional and, absent compelling equities on the other side, which I do not find in this
case, should remain in effect pending a final decision on the
merits by this Court. Cf. Marshallv Barlow's, Inc., 429 U S.

1347, 1348 (1977) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers)

NEW MOTOR VEHICLE BOARD v. ORRIN W FOX CO.
1345

1353

Opinion in Chambers

It is therefore ordered that, pending applicant's timely filing
and this Court's disposition of a jurisdictional statement, the
injunction entered by the District Court for the Central District of California in this case on October 19, 1977, be and
the same hereby is stayed. The stay order shall incorporate
the above-quoted paragraph proposed by applicant to the
District Court.

