RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE

429

Syllabus

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC., LT AL. v.
RICE, SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF WISCONSIN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN

No. 76-558.

Argued November 8-9, 1977-Decided February 21, 1978

Wisconsin statutes, as a general rule, do not allow trucks longer than 55
feet or pulling more than one other vehicle to be operated on highways
within that State without a permit. Implementing regulations set forth
the conditions under which "trailer train" and other classes of permits
will be issued, and contain a great number of exceptions to the general
rule. Appellant motor earners were denied permits to operate 65-foot
double-trailer units on certain interstate highways in Wisconsin on the
ground that their proposed operations were not within the narrow scope
of the regulations specifying when "trailer train" permits will be issued.
Appellants then filed suit in Federal Distnct Court seeking declaratory
and injunctive relief on the ground that the regulations barring their
operation of 65-foot doubles burdened and discriminated against interstate commerce in violation of the Commerce Clause. At the trial
appellants presented extensive, uncontradicted evidence that the 65-foot
doubles are as safe as, if not safer than, 55-foot singles when operated
on limited-access, four-lane divided highways, and also presented uncontradicted evidence that their operations are disrupted, their costs raised,
and their service slowed by the challenged regulations because they are
forced to haul doubles across the State separately or around the State
or to incur delays caused by using singles instead of doubles to pick up
and deliver goods, and are prevented from accepting interline transfers
of 65-foot doubles. In addition appellants' evidence showed that
Wisconsin routinely allows a great number and variety of vehicles over
55 feet long to operate on state highways. A three-judge court ruled
against appellants. He~d. On the record, the challenged regulations
violate the Commerce Clause because they place a substantial burden
on interstate commerce and make no more than the most speculative
contribution to highway safety The great number of exceptions to the
general 55-foot rule, and especially those that discriminate in favor of
local industry, weaken the presumption of validity in favor of the
general limit, because they undermine the assumption that the State's

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U.S.

own political processes will act as a check on local regulations that
unduly burden interstate commerce. Pp. 439-448.
417 F Supp. 1352, reversed and remanded.
PowELL, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Members joined except STEVENS, J., who took no part in the consideration or
decision of the case. BLACKtmUN, J., filed a concurring opinion, in which
BURGER, C. J., and BRENNAN and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined, post, p. 448.

John H. Lederer argued the cause for appellants. With him
on the briefs were Jack R. DeWitt and Jon P Axelrod.
Albert Harrzman, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin,
argued the cause for appellees. With him on the brief were
Bronson C La Follette, Attorney General, pro se, and Charles

A. Bleck, Assistant Attorney General.*
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
We consider on this appeal whether administrative regula-

tions of the State of Wisconsin governing the length and
configuration of trucks that may be operated within the State
violate the Commerce Clause because they unconstitutionally
burden or discriminate against interstate commerce. The
three-judge District Court held that the regulations are not
unconstitutional on either ground.

they unconstitutionally

reverse.

burden

Because we conclude that

interstate

commerce,

we

I

Appellant Raymond Motor Transportation, Inc. (Raymond),
a Minnesota corporation with its principal place of business in
*Briefs of amwz curae urging affirmance were filed by Theodore L.
Sendak, Attorney General, and Donald P Bogard for the State of Indiana,
by Anthony F Troy, Attorney General, Walter A. McFarlane, Deputy
Attorney General, and Valentine W Southall, Jr., Assistant Attorney General, for the Commonwealth of Virginia, and by Richard T Conway,
Harry J Breithaupt, Jr., and E. Parker Brown for the Association of
American Railroads.

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

431

Opinion of the Court

Minneapolis, is a common carrier of general commodities by
motor vehicle. Operating pursuant to a certificate of public
convenience and necessity granted by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, see 49 U S. C. §§ 306-308, Raymond provides
service in eastern North Dakota, Minnesota, northern Illinois,
and northwestern Indiana. Its primary interstate route is
between Chicago and Minneapolis. It does not serve any
points in Wisconsin.
Appellant Consolidated Freightways Corporation of Delaware (Consolidated), a Delaware corporation with its principal
place of business in Menlo Park, Cal., also is a common carrier
of general commodities by motor vehicle. Consolidated operates nationwide, providing service under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity in 42 States and Canada. Among
other routes, Consolidated carries commodities between Chicago, Detroit, and points east, and Minneapolis and points
west to Seattle. Unlike Raymond, Consolidated does carry
commodities between Wisconsin and other States, and it maintains terminals in Milwaukee and Madison where truckloads
of goods are dispatched and received.
Both Raymond and Consolidated use two different kinds of
trucks. One consists of a three-axle power unit (tractor)
which pulls a single two-axle trailer that is 40 feet long. The
overall length of such a single-trailer unit (single) is 55 feet.
This unit has been used on the Nation's highways for many
years and is an industry standard. The other type truck
consists of a two-axle tractor which pulls a single-axle trailer
to which a single-axle dolly and a second single-axle trailer are
attached. Each trailer is 27 feet long, and the overall length
of such a double-trailer unit (double) is 65 feet.'
The double, which has come into increasing use in recent
years, is thought to have certain advantages over the single
'Appendix A of the District Court opinion contains illustrations of
both lands of trucks. 417 F Supp. 1352, 1363 (WD Wis. 1976) (per
curam).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U.S.

for general commodities shipping.2 Because of these advantages, Raymond would prefer to use doubles on its route
between Chicago and Minneapolis. Consolidated would prefer
to use doubles on its routes between Chicago, Detroit, and
points east, and Minneapolis and points west, as well as on its
routes commencing and ending in Milwaukee and Madison.
The most direct route for all of this traffic is over Interstate
Highways 90 and 94, both of which cross Wisconsin between
Illinois and Minnesota. State law allows 65-foot doubles to
be operated on interstate highways and access roads in Michigan, Illinois, Minnesota, and all of the States west from
Minnesota to Washington through which Interstate Highways
90 and 94 run.
Wisconsin law, however, generally does not allow trucks
longer than 55 feet to be operated on highways within that
State. The key statutory provision is Wis. Stat. § 348.07 (1)
(1975), which sets a limit of 55 feet on the overall length of a
vehicle pulling one trailer.' Any person operating a singletrailer uit of greater length must obtain a pernt issued by
the State Highway Commission. In addition, § 348.08 (1)
double can carry a greater volume of general commodities than a
single, often without exceeding legal limits on gross vehicle weights.
Thus, fewer doubles than singles are needed to carry a given amount of
cargo, with consequent savings in fuel and drivers' time. In addition,
because the trailers of a double can be routed separately, caxgo can be
picked up from various shippers, dispatched, and delivered to various
destinations more quickly by use of doubles than singles.
3 Subsequent to the District Court's decision, this section was amended
to allow single-trailer units up to 59 feet long to be operated without a
permit "providing the cargo or cargo space of the semitrailer is 45 feet or
less in length and the truck tractor is within the statutory limit in
sub. (1)." 1977 Wis. Laws, ch. 29, § 1487h, adding § 348.07 (2) (g).
Exempted from the length limit of § 348.07 (1) are combinations of
mobile homes and their towing vehicles, if their overall length does not
exceed 60 feet, § 348.07 (2) (d), and inplements of husbandry operated
temporarily upon the highway, § 348.07 (2) (e).
2A

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

433

Opinion of the Court

provides that no vehicle pulling more than one other vehicle
shall be operated on a highway without a permit
The Commission is authorized to issue various classes of
annual permits for the operation of vehicles that do not conform to the above requirements. In particular, it may issue
"trailer tram" perits for the operation of combinations of
more than two vehicles "consisting of truck tractors, trailers,
semitrailers or wagons which do not exceed a total length of
100 feet," § 348.27 (6) 1 The Commission may also "impose
4The District Court assumed that § 348.08 (1) generally allows doubletrailer trucks up to 55 feet long to be operated without permits. See 417
F Supp., at 1354-1355. The State concedes that this assumption was
erroneous. Tr. of Oral Arg. 34-37 The section, however, does exempt
from its permit reqmrement combinations of two vehicles pulled by a third
and 'bemg transported by the drive-away method in saddle-mount
combination," where overall length does not exceed 55 feet, § 348.08 (1) (a),
combinations of farm tractors pulling two trailers or one trailer and one
implement of husbandry, if the combination is used exclusively for farming
and its overall length does not exceed 55 feet, § 348.08 (1) (b), and "tour
trains" operated primarily on county and municipal roads for recreational
or educational purposes, § 348.08 (1) (c). The terms "drive-away method"
and "saddle-mount combination" in § 348.08 (1) (a) are not defined by the
statute or regulations, but they apparently refer to a method of towing one
four-wheel motor vehicle by resting its front wheels on the back of a second
four-wheel motor vehicle. See 49 CFR §§ 390.9, 393.71, and 393.17 (1976).
5The Commission also is authorized to issue annual permits to operate
overlength vehicles "to industries and to their agent motor carriers owning
and operating oversize vehicles m connection with interplant, and from
plant to state line, operations in this state," § 348.27 (4), "to pipeline
companies or operators or public service corporations for transportation
used in its [sic] business,"
of poles, pipe, girders and similar materials
§ 34827 (5), "to companies and individuals hauling peeled or unpeeled
pole-length forest products used in its [szc] business," provided that overall length does not exceed 65 feet, § 348.27 (5), "to auto carriers operating
'haulaways' specially constructed to transport motor vehicles," provided
that overall length does not exceed 65 feet, § 348.27 (5), "to licensed
mobile home transport companies and to licensed mobile home manufacturers and dealers authorizing them to transport oversize mobile homes,"
§ 34827 (7), to persons transporting "loads of pole length and pulpwood

434

oToBERirFAM, 1977
Opuuon of the Court

434 U.S.

such reasonable conditions" and "adopt such reasonable rules"
of operation with respect to vehicles operated under permit
"as it deems necessary for the safety of travel and protection
of the highways," §348.25 (3), including specification of the
routes to be used by permittees.
The Commission has issued administrative regulations setting forth the conditions under which "trailer train" and other
classes of permits will be issued. Although the Connmssion is
empowered by § 348.27 (6) to issue "trailer train" permits to
operate double-trailer trucks up to 100 feet long, its regulations
restrict such permits to "the operation of vehicles used for the
transporting of municipal refuse or waste, or for the interstate
or mtra-state operation without load of vehicles in transit from
manufacturer or dealer to purchaser or dealer, or for the purpose of repair." Wis. Admn. Code §Hy 30.14 (3) (a) (July
1975) "Trailer train" permits also are issued "for the operation of a combination of three vehicles used for the transporting
of milk from the point of production to the point of first
processing," §Hy 30.18 (3) (a) (June 1976)
II
The overture to this lawsuit began when Raymond and
Consolidated each applied to the appropriate Wisconsin
for a distance not to exceed
limitations
exceeding statutory length
3 miles from the Michigan-Wisconsm state line," § 34827 (9), and to
for a specified
other persons "[f]or good cause in specified instances
limitations imposed by
[to] allow loads exceeding the size
period
this chapter," § 348.27 (3).
Section 34825 (4) provides that permits "shall be issued only for the
transporting of a single article or vehicle which exceeds statutory size
limitations and which cannot reasonably be divided or reduced to comply
" The Commission by regulation,
limitations
with statutory size
however, exempts general, industrial mterplant, and double-trailer milk
truck permits from this requirement. Wis. Admin. Code § Hy 30.01 (3) (o)
(June 1976). It appears that the Commission interprets § 348.25 (4) to
require only that it would be less economical, rather than physically
impossible, to divide a load. See App. 200, 210, 211-212.

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

435

Opinion of the Court

officials under § 348.27 (6) for annual permits to operate 65-

foot doubles on Interstate Highways 90 and 94 between Illinois
and Minnesota and, in Consolidated's case, on short stretches
of four-lane divided highways between the literstate highways
and freight terminals in Milwaukee and Madison 0 The permits were denied because appellants' proposed operations were
not within the narrow scope of the administrative regulations
that specify when "trailer tram" permits will be issued.
Appellants then filed suit in Federal District Court seeking
declaratory and injunctive relief on the ground that the regulations barring the proposed operation of 65-foot doubles
burden and discriminate against interstate commerce in violation of the Commerce Clause, Art. I, § 8, cl. 3.1 The complaint
alleged that the State's refusal to issue the requested permits
disrupts and delays appellants' transportation of commodities
in interstate commerce, that 65-foot doubles are as safe as, if
not safer than, the 55-foot singles that are allowed to operate
on Wisconsin highways without permits; and that the maze of
statutory and administrative exceptions to the general prohibition against operating vehicles longer than 55 feet results in
"'over-length' permts [being] routinely granted to classes of
vehicles indistinguishable from those of the Plaintiffs in terms
of size, safety, and divisibility of loads
" App. 18.
A three-judge District Court was convened pursuant to 28
6 Consolidated

also sought authority to operate over Interstate Highway
894, an alternative route which bypasses the Milwaukee metropolitan area.
7The complaint named as defendants, individually and m their official
capacities, Rice, the Secretary of the Wisconsin Department of Transportation, Huber, the Chairman of the Wisconsin Highway Conunussion,
Sweda and Young, members of the Commission; Volk, the Chief Traffic
Engineer of Wisconsin; Versnik, the commanding officer of the Wisconsin
State Patrol; and LaFollette, the Attorney General of Wisconsin. We
shall refer to the defendants collectively as "the State."
The complaint also stated a claam under the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment which the District Court rejected and
which we do not reach.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U.S.

U S. C. § 2281.8 After a pretrial conference, the court directed
the State to file an amended answer setting forth every justification for its refusal to issue the permits sought, "such as
safety, for example." App. 25. The State's amended answer
advanced highway safety as its sole justification. Id., at 2729. By agreement of the parties, the case was tried on affidavits, depositions, and exhibits.
Appellants presented a great deal of evidence supporting
their allegation that 65-foot doubles are as safe as, if not safer
than, 55-foot singles when operated on limited-access, four-lane
divided highways. For example, the Deputy Director of the
Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety, Federal Highway Administration, United States Department of Transportation, testified
on deposition that the Bureau's five-year study of the accident
experience of selected motor carriers that use both types of
trucks showed that doubles are safer than singles in terms of
the number of accidents, injuries, and fatalities per 100,000
miles, and in terms of the amount of property damage and
number of injuries and fatalities per accident. The deponent's own expert opinion was that doubles are safer because of
the articulation between the first and second trailers, which
allows greater maneuverability and prevents the back wheels
of the second trailer from deviating from the path of the
front wheels of the tractor (offtracking) as much as the back
wheels of a 55-foot single, because loads typically are distributed more evenly in doubles than in singles, and because
doubles typically have better braking capability than singles.
Other experts testified that 65-foot doubles brake as well as
55-foot singles, maneuver and track better, are less prone to
jackknife, and produce less splash and spray to obscure the
vision of drivers in following and passing vehicles. These
"Section 2281 was repealed by Pub. L. 94-381, 90 Stat. 1119, the day
before the three-judge court's decision in this case. The repeal, however,
did not affect actions commenced on or before its date of enactment. See
§ 7 of Pub. L. 94-381, 90 Stat. 1120.

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

437

Opinon of the Court

experts agreed that the difference in the amount of time
needed to pass a 55-foot single and a 65-foot double has no
appreciable effect on motorist safety on liimted-access, fourlane divided highways. Appellants also produced depositions
and affidavits of state highway safety officials from 12 of the
States where 65-foot doubles are allowed on some or all
highways; all shared the opinion that 65-foot doubles are as
safe as 55-foot singlesO
The State, for reasons unexplained, made no effort to contradict this evidence of comparative safety with evidence of its
own."0 The Chairman of the State Highway Connmssion, while
acknowledging the Commission's statutory authority to issue
the permits sought by appellants, testified that the regulations
preventing their issuance are not based on an administrative
assessment of the safety of 65-foot doubles, and he himself was
"not prepared to make a statement relative to the safety of
these vehicles." App. 250. The reason for the Commission's
adoption of these regulations, according to the Chairman, was
its belief that the people of the State did not want more
vehicles over 55 feet long on the State's highways." The
9 According to a stipulated exhibit, at the time of trial only 17 States
and the District of Columbia did not allow 65-foot doubles on their highways. A few more permitted their operation on designated highways, and
the rest allowed them on all highways. App. 278. For a more detailed
summary of current state laws regulating truck length and configuration,
see American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials,
Legal Maximum Dimensions and Weights of Motor Vehicles Compared
with AASHTO Standards (1976).
:"'The State did introduce expert testimony that occupants of smaller
vehicles are more likely to be killed in collisions with large trucks than
occupants of larger vehicles. The study upon which this testimony was
based did not distinguish between 55-foot singles and 65-foot doubles, and
the State's expert witness had no opinion as to their relative safety App.
154.
11 He also said that the state legislature, in response to this feeling, had
declined to enact legislation that would have allowed 65-foot doubles to be
operated without permits. He interpreted this legislative inaction as

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinon of the Court

434 U.S.

State produced no evidence, nor has it made any suggestion in
this Court, that 65-foot doubles are less safe than 55-foot
singles because of their extra trailer, as distinguished from
-their extra length."
Appellants also produced uncontradicted evidence showing
that their operations are disrupted, their costs are raised,
and their service is slowed by the challenged regulations.
For example, Consolidated ordinarily finds it faster and less
expensive to use 65-foot doubles to carry interstate freight
originating from or destined for Milwaukee and Madison. To
comply with Wisconsin law, however, an interstate double
bound for Wisconsin must stop before entering the State and
detach one of its two trailers. Consolidated then pulls each
trailer separately to the freight terminal in Milwaukee or
Madison. Likewise, each trailer of a double outbound from
one of those cities must be pulled across the Wisconsin state
line separately, at which point they are united into a doubletrailer combination. Consolidated maintains a crew of drivers
in Wisconsin whose sole responsibility is to shuttle second
trailers to and from the state line.
On routes through Wisconsin between Chicago and Minneapolis, both Consolidated and Raymond are compelled to
use 55-foot singles instead of 65-foot doubles because each
trailer of a double would have to be pulled by a separate
tractor on the portion of the route that is in Wisconsin. On
its long east-west routes from Detroit and Chicago to Seattle,
Consolidated must divert doubles south of Wisconsin through
Missouri and Nebraska in order to avoid Wisconsin's ban. 3
evidence of a legislative intent that the Conmssion should not issue permits for such trucks, despite its statutory power to do so.
12 Indeed, the State agrees that "[a]ppellants have shown that 65 foot
twin trailers have as good a safety record as other large vehicles." Brief
for Appellees 13.
13 It appears that 65-foot doubles must be routed as far south as
Missouri because Iowa, which Interstate Highway 80 crosses on an eastwest route, also bans 65-foot doubles.

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

439

Opinion of the Court

These routes would involve a considerably shorter distance if
Consolidated's trucks could go through Wisconsm. 4
Finally, appellants' evidence demonstrated that Wisconsin
routinely allows a great number and variety.of vehicles over
55 feet long to be operated on the State's highways. App.
178-181.
The three-judge court ruled against appellants. 417 F
Supp. 1352 (WD Wis. 1976) (per curnam) The court found
that the Wisconsin regulatory scheme does not discriminate
against interstate commerce. Id., at 1356-1358. The court
also considered "whether the burden imposed upon interstate
commerce outweighs the benefits to the local popul[ace],"
sd., at 1358, and concluded that it did not. It thought that
appellants had not shown that the State's refusal to issue
permits for appellants' 65-foot doubles had no relation to
highway safety, pointing to the fact that, other things being
equal, it takes longer for a motorist to pass a 65-foot truck
than a 55-foot truck. Id., at 1359. The court considered
the expense imposed on appellants to be "of no material
consequence." Id., at 1361. We noted probable jurisdiction.
430 U S. 914 (1977).
III
Appellants challenge both branches of the District Court's
holding. First, they contend that the State's refusal to issue
the requested "trailer train" permits under § 348.27 (6) burdens interstate commerce in violation of the Commerce Clause
because it substantially interferes with the movement of goods
in interstate commerce and makes no contribution to highway
1 An officer of Consolidated estimated that it costs the company m
excess of 82 million annually to make the various adjustments m operations that are required by Wisconsin law An officer of Raymond estimated that the company could save up to $63,000 annually on fuel and
up to $102,000 annually on drivers' wages if it could use 65-foot doubles
on its route between Chicago and Minneapolis.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opimon of the Court

434 U.S.

Second, they argue that § 348.27 (4), authorizing
safety
issuance of "interplant" permits, see n. 5, supra, discriminates
against interstate commerce in violation of the Commerce
Clause because it allows permits to be issued to carry the
'products of Wisconsin. industries, but not of other States'
industries, over Wisconsin highways in trucks longer than 55
feet. We find it necessary to address the second contention
only as it bears on the first.
By its terms, the Commerce Clause grants Congress the power
"
among the several States
"[t]o regulate Commerce
Long ago it was settled that even in the absence of a congressional exercise of this power, the Commerce Clause prevents the States from erecting barriers to the free flow of
interstate commerce. Cooley v Board of Wardens, 12 How
299 (1852), see Great A&P Tea Co. v Cottrell, 424 U S.
At the same time, however, it never has
366, 370-371 (1976)
been doubted that much state legislation, designed to serve
legitimate state interests and applied without discrimination
against interstate commerce, does not violate the Commerce
Clause even though it affects commerce. H. P Hood & Sons,
Inc. v Du Mond, 336 U S. 525, 531-532 (1949), see Gibbons
v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203-206 (1824), zd., at 235 (Johnson, J.,
"[I]n areas where activities of legitimate local
concurring)
concern overlap with the national interests expressed by the
Commerce Clause--where local and national powers are concurrent--the Court in the absence of congressional guidance is
called upon to make 'delicate adjustment of the conflicting
state and federal claims,' H. P Hood & Sons, Inc. v Du Mond,
" Great A&P Tea
supra, at 553 (Black, J., dissenting)
Co. v Cottrell, supra, at 371, see Hunt v Washington Apple
Advertsing Comm'n, 432 U S. 333, 350 (1977)
In this process of "delicate adjustment," the Court has
employed various tests to express the distinction between
permissible and impernmssible impact upon interstate com-

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE

441

Opinon of the Court

429

merce,15 but experience teaches that no single conceptual
approach identifies all of the factors that may bear on a
particular case. 6 Our recent decisions make clear that the
inquiry necessarily involves a sensitive consideration of the
weight and nature of the state regulatory concern in light of
the extent of the burden imposed on the course of interstate
commerce. As the Court-stated in Pike v Bruce Church,Inc.,

397 U S. 137, 142 (1970)
"Although the criteria for determining the validity of
state statutes affecting interstate commerce have been
variously stated, the general rule that emerges can be
phrased as follows: Where the statute regulates even-

handedly to effectuate a legitimate local public interest,
and its effects on interstate commerce are only incidental,
it will be upheld unless the burden inposed on such
commerce is clearly excessive in relation to the putative
local benefits.

Huron Cement Co v Detroit, 362 U. S.

440, 443. If a legitimate local purpose is found, then the
question becomes one of degree. And the extent of the
burden that will be tolerated will of course depend on the
nature of the local interest involved, and on whether it
15 Cooley v Board of Wardens, 12 How 299, 319 (1852), distinguished
between subjects "imperatively demanding a single uniform rule" and subjects "imperatively demanding that diversity, which alone can meet the
local necessities." Other cases have distinguished between state regulations that affect interstate commerce "directly," and those that affect it
"indirectly" E. g., Hall v DeCuzr, 95 U. S.485, 488 (1878), Smith v
Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 482 (1888). And many cases have distinguished
between regulations that are an exercise of the State's "police powers," and
those that are "regulations of commerce." E. g., Railroad Co. v Fuller,
17 Wall. 560, 570 (1873), Smith v. Alabama, supra, at 482.
16See, e. g., D&Santo v. Pennsylvana, 273 U. S. 34, 44 (1927) (Stone, J.,
dissenting), Parker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341, 362-363 (1943), Southern
Pacific Co. v. Arizona ex rel. Sullivan, 325 U. S.761, 768-769 (1945), H. P
Hood & Sons, Inc. v Du Mond, 336 U. S. 525, 552-553 (1949) (Black, J.,
dissenting).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U.S.

could be promoted as well with a lesser impact on interstate activities."
Accord, Great A&P Tea Co. v Cottrell, supra, at 371-372,
Hughes v Alexandria Scrap Corp., 426 U S. 794, 804 (1976),
see also Hunt v Washington Apple Advertmsng Comm'n,
supra, at 350.
In the instant case, appellants do not dispute that a State
has a legitimate interest in regulating motor vehicles using its
roads in order to promote highway safety Nor do they
contend that federal regulation has pre-empted state regulation of truck length or configuration.
They argue, however,
that the burden imposed upon interstate commerce by the
Wisconsin regulations challenged here is, in the language of
Pike v Bruce Church, Inc., "clearly excessive in relation to the
putative local benefits." Appellants contend that the regulations were shown by uncontradicted evidence to make no
contribution to highway safety, while imposing a burden on
interstate commerce that is substantial in terms of expense and
delay They analogize this case to Bibb v Navajo Freight
Lines, 359 U, S. 520 (1959), where the Court invalidated an
Illinois law, defended on the ground that it promoted highway
safety, that required trailers of trucks driven within Illinois to
be equipped with contour mudguards.
The State replies that the general rule of Pike is not applicable to a State's regulation of motor vehicles in the promotion
of safety It contends that we should be guided, instead, by
South Carolina Highway Dept. v Barnwell Bros., Inc., 303
U S. 177 (1938), which upheld over Commerce Clause objections a state law that set stricter limitations on truck width
and weight than did surrounding States' laws. The State
17Congress has considered pre-empting this field, but it has not acted.

See, e. g., S. Rep. No. 93-1111, p. 10 (1974), Hearings on Transportation
and the New Energy Policies (Truck Sizes and Weights) before the Subcommittee on Transportation of the Senate Committee on Public Works,
93d Cong., 2d Sess. (1974)

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE

429

443

Opimon of the Court

emphasizes that Barnwell Bros. applied a "rational relation"
test rather than a "balancing" test, and argues that its regulations bear a rational relation to highway safety Longer trucks
take longer to pass or be passed than shorter trucks.
We acknowledge, as did the Court in Bibb, that there is
language in Barnwell Bros. "which, read in isolation from
later decisions
,would suggest that no showing of burden
on interstate commerce is sufficient to invalidate local safety
regulations in absence of some element of discrimination
against interstate commerce." 359 U S., at 528-529. But
Bibb rejected such a suggestion by stating the test to be
applied to state highway regulation in terms sinilar in principle to the subsequent formulation in Pike v Bruce Church,
Inc..
"Unless we can conclude on the whole record that 'the
total effect of the law as a safety measure in reducing
accidents and casualties is so slight or problematical as
not to outweigh the national interest in keeping interstate
commerce free from interferences which seriously impede
it'
we must uphold the statute." 359 U S., at 524,
quoting Southern Pacific Co. v Arzona ex rel. Sullivan,
325 U S. 761, 775-776 (1945).
Thus, we cannot accept the State's contention that the inquiry
under the Commerce Clause is ended without a weighing of the
asserted safety purpose against the degree of interference with
interstate commerce.
Nevertheless, it also is true that the Court has been most
reluctant to invalidate under the Commerce Clause "'state
legislation in the field of safety where the propriety of local
regulation has long been recognized."' Pike v Bruce Church,
Inc., supra, at 143, quoting Southern Pacific Co. v Arzona ex
rel. Sullivan, supra, at 796 (Douglas, J., dissenting). In no
field has this deference to state regulation been greater than
that of highway safety regulation, See, e. g., Hendrick v
Maryland, 235 U S. 610 (1915), Sproles v BRnford, 286 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court
374 (1932),

Maurer v

Hamilton, 309 U

434 U.S.
S. 598 (1940),

Railway Express Agency, Inc. v New York, 336 U S. 106

(1949)

18

Thus, those who would challenge state regulations

saad to promote highway safety must overcome a "strong
presumption of [their] validity" Bibb, supra, at 524.
Despite the strength of this presumption, we are persuaded
by the record m this case that the challenged regulations
unconstitutionally burden interstate commerce. As we have
shown, appellants produced a massive array of evidence to
disprove the State's assertion that the regulations make some
contribution to highway safety The State, for its part,
virtually defaulted in its defense of the regulations as a safety
measure. Both it and the District Court were content to
assume that the regulations contribute to highway safety
because appellants' 65-foot doubles take longer to pass or be
passed than the 55-foot singles. Yet appellants produced
uncontradicted evidence that the difference in passing time
does not pose an appreciable threat to motorists traveling on
They also
limited access, four-lane divided highways 9
' 8 The Court's special deference to state highway regulations derives in
part from the assumption that where such regulations do not discriminate
on their face against interstate commerce, their burden usually falls on
local economic interests as well as other States' economic interests, thus
insuring that a State's own political processes will serve as a check against
unduly burdensome regulations. Compare South CarolinaHighway Dept.
v Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 187 (1938), with Southern Pacific Co. v.
Arizona ex rel. Sullivan, 325 U. S., at 783. It also derives from a recognition that the States shoulder primary responsibility for the construction,
maintenance, and policing of their highways, and that highway conditions
may vary widely from State to State. See Bibb v. Navajo Frezght Lines,
359 U. S. 520, 523-524 (1959), Barnwell Bros., supra, at 187
19 The District Court, without mentioning this evidence, suggested that
language in Morns v Duby, 274 U. S. 135, 144 (1927), and Buck v.
Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307, 315 (1925), established a principle "that for
purposes of judicial review of state highway legislation, size restrictions
" 417 F Supp.,
might be deemed inherently tied to public safety
at 1360. The language relied upon does not go so far, and it antedates

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

445

Opinion of the Court

showed that the Highway Commission routinely allows many
other vehicles 55 feet or longer to use the State's highways.
In short, the State's assertion that the challenged regulations
contribute to highway safety is rebutted by appellants' evidence and undercut by the maze of exemptions from the
general truck-length limit that the State itself allows.20
Moreover, appellants demonstrated, again without contra-

diction, that the regulations impose a substantial burden on
the interstate movement of goods. The regulations substantially increase the cost of such movement, a fact which is not,
as the District Court thought, entirely irrelevant.2 ' In addition, the regulations slow the movement of goods in interstate
commerce by forcing appellants to haul doubles across the
State separately, to haul doubles around the State altogether,
or to incur the delays caused by using singles instead of doubles
to pick up and deliver goods. See Bibb, 359 U S., at 527
Finally, the regulations prevent appellants from accepting
interline transfers of 65-foot doubles for movement through
Wisconsin from carriers that operate only in the 33 States
where the doubles are legal. See 2d., at 527-528.22 In our
the era of the limited-access, four-lane divided highways involved in this
case. Size restrictions, like other highway safety regulations, are entitled
to a strong presumption of validity, but this presumption cannot justify
a court in closing its eyes to uncontroverted evidence of record.
20
The State's failure to present any evidence to rebut appellants' showmg in itself sets this case apart from Barnwell Bros., see 303 U3. S., at 196,
and even from Bibb, see 359 T. S., at 525.
21 The District Court said: "That compliance with Wisconsin regulations imposes added costs upon the plaintiffs is a fact of no material consequence." 417 F Supp., at 1361, citing Bibb, supra, at 526. In
Bibb, the Court thought that the cost to carriers of installing the mudguards required by Illinois would not, in itself, require invalidation of the
Illinois law. See 359 U. S., at 526. But the Court also made it clear
that "[c]ost taken into consideration with other factors might be relevant
in some cases to the issue of burden on commerce." Tbzd.
22 The State contends that its regulations do not interfere with interlining as seriously as the Illinois law at issue in Bibb because 65-foot doubles

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

434 U.S.

view, the burden inposed on interstate commerce by Wisconsin's regulations is no less than that imposed by the statute
invalidated in Bibb. 3
One other consideration, although not decisive, lends force
to our conclusion that the challenged regulations cannot stand.
As we have noted, Wisconsin's regulatory scheme contains a
great number of exceptions to the general rule that vehicles
over 55 feet long cannot be operated on highways within the
State. At least one of these exceptions discriminates on its
face in favor of Wisconsin industries and against the industries
of other States,' and there are indications in the record that a
"may freely be hauled through Wisconsin, but, of course, they must be
This does not prevent interlining, it 3ust
hauled one at a time.
makes it more expensive." Brief for Appellees 11. This contention overlooks the fact that in Bibb interlining could have continued if either the
originating or the connecting carrers had been willing to bear the expense
of installing the contour mudguards required by Illinois law
23The State argues that this case is distinguishable from Bibb because
the contour mudguards required by Illinois were illegal m Arkansas, and
the straight mudguards required by Arkansas were illegal m Illinois.
Here, by contrast, the 55-foot singles that are legal in Wisconsin are not
illegal in any other State. But the State fails to appreciate that the
conflict between the Illinois and Arkansas requirements m Bibb was
important because of the added burden of delay and expense that it
imposed on carriers operating between the two States. The conflict would
have required such carriers to stop somewhere between Illinois and Arkansas, either to shift cargo from one trailer to another, 359 U. S., at 526, or
to change mudguards on the original trailer, zd., at 527
We also note that the interference with interlining that weighed in the
Bibb decision did not result from the conflict between the Illinois and
Arkansas requirements, but rather from the fact that many originating
carriers did not operate in Illinois and hence "would not be expected to
equip [their] trailers with contour mudguards." Id., at 528.
24
Under Wis. Stat. § 348.27 (4) (1975), the Commission issues permits
to Wisconsin industries and their agent motor carriers to transport goods
in trucks over 55 feet long from plants in Wisconsin to the state line, and
thence to markets in other States, but it does not issue permits to industries with plants in other States to transport goods in trucks over 55 feet
long through Wisconsin to markets in other States. The District Court's

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

447

Opimon of the Court

number of the other exceptions, although neutral on their face,
were enacted at the instance of, and primarily benefit, important Wisconsin industries. Viewed realistically, these exceptions may be the product of compronse between forces within
the State that seek to retain the State's general truck-length
limit, and industries within the State that complain that the
general limit is unduly burdensome. Exemptions of this kind,
however, weaken the presumption in favor of the validity of
the general limit, because they undermine the assumption that
the State's own political processes will act as a check on local
regulations that unduly burden interstate commerce. See n.

18, supra.

IV
On this record, we are persuaded that the challenged regulations violate the Commerce Clause because they place a
substantial burden on interstate commerce and they cannot be
said to make more than the most speculative contribution to
highway safety Our holding is a narrow one, for we do not
decide whether laws of other States restricting the operation
of trucks over 55 feet long, or of double-trailer trucks, would
be upheld if the evidence produced on the safety issue were not
so overwhelmingly one-sided as in this case.2 5 The State of
snu sponte speculation that industries in States other than Wisconsin also
might be eligible for permits under § 348.27 (4), see 417 F Supp., at
1357 n. 9, is refuted by the record, see App. 257-258, and was disavowed
by the State, Tr. of Oral Arg. 30; see Brief for Appellees 4.
Given our conclusion that the regulations preventing issuance of the
requested permits unconstitutionally burden interstate commerce, we find
it unnecessary to decide whether appellants would be entitled to relief
solely on the basis of the discrimination against interstate commerce
embodied in § 348.27 (4). Compare Brief for Appellees 4, and Brief for
Association of American Railroads as Amzcus Cunae 20, with Reply Brief
for Appellants 39. Neither do we intimate that nondiscriminatory exceptions to general length, width, or weight limits are inherently suspect.
Cf. Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S.374, 391-396 (1932).
25
As one commentator has written, Commerce Clause adjudication must
depend in large part "upon the thoroughness with which the lawyers

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BLACKMUxJ,

J., concurring

434 U. S.

Wisconsin has failed to make even a colorable showing that its
regulations contribute to highway safety The judgment of
the District Court is reversed, and the case is remanded for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUsTICE STEVENS took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
MR. JusTicE BLAoKmUN, with whom THE CRIEF JTsTmc,
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST join,

concurring.
I join the opinion of the Court, but I add these comments to
emphasize the narrow scope of today's decision.
First, the Court's reliance on Pike v Bruce Church, Inc.,
397 U S. 137 (1970), does not signal, for me, a new approach
to review of state highway safety regulations under the Commerce Clause. Wisconsin argues that the Court previously
has refused to balance safety considerations against burdens
on interstate commerce. Brief for Appellees 8. This contention misreads Bibb v Navajo Frezght Lines, 359 U S. 520
(1959), which recognized the Court's responsibility to weigh
the national interest in free-flowing commerce against" 'slight
or problematical'" safety interests. Id., at 524, quoting
Southern Pacific Co. v Arizona ex rel. Sullivan, 325 U S. 761,
776 (1945)
Second, the reliance on Pike should not be read to equate
the factual balance struck here with the balance established in
Pike regarding the Arizona Fruit and Vegetable Standardization Act. Arizona prohibited interstate shipment of cantaperform their task in the conduct of constitutional litigation. Here, as in
many other fields, constitutionality is conditioned upon the facts, and to
the lawyers the courts are entitled to look for garnering and presenting the
facts." Dowling, Interstate Commerce and State Power, 27 Va. L. Rev 1,
27-28 (1940).

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

BLACKMUN,

449

J., concurring

loupes not "packed in regular compact arrangement in closed
standard containers." 397 U S., at 138, quoting Ariz. Rev
Stat. Ann. § 3-503C (Supp. 1969)
Application of the prohibition to the appellee grower would have prevented it from
processing its cantaloupes just across the state line in California, and would have required it to construct a packing
facility in Arizona. The State attempted to justify this
burden on interstate commerce solely by its interest "to
promote and preserve the reputation of Arizona growers by
prohibiting deceptive packaging." 397 U S., at 143. More
specifically, Arizona wanted the appellee to package the
cantaloupes in the State so that the high-quality fruit could
be advertised as grown in Arizona rather than California.
Although recogmzmg the legitimacy of the State's interest, the
Court refused to accord the concern much weight in the
Commerce Clause balancing:
"[T]he State's tenuous interest in having the company's
cantaloupes identified as originating in Arizona cannot
constitutionally justify the requirement that the company
build and operate an unneeded $200,000 packing plant in
the State." Id., at 145.
In short, despite the unchallenged existence and legitimacy of
the State's interest, the Court determined that the interest was
not important enough to justify the burden on commerce.
Neither the Pike opinion nor today's decision suggests that
a similar balance would be struck when a State legitimately
asserts the existence of a safety justification for a regulation.
In Pike itself the Court noted that it did not confront "'state
legislation in the field of safety where the propriety of local
regulation has long been recognized."' Id., at 143, quoting
Southern Pacific Co. v Arzona ex rel. Sullivan, 325 U S., at
796 (Douglas, J., dissenting)
In other words, if safety justifications are not illusory, the Court will not second-guess
legislative judgment about their importance in comparison
with related burdens on interstate commerce. I therefore join

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BLACKMUN,

J., concurrng

434 U. S.

the opinion of the Court because its ultimate balancing does
not depart from this principle, as stated in Bibb v Navajo
FreightLines:
"These safety measures carry a strong presumption of
validity when challenged in court. If there are alternative ways of solving a problem, we do not sit to determine
which of them is best suited to achieve a valid state
objective. Policy decisions are for the state legislature,
absent federal entry into the field." 359 U S., at 524.
Here, the Court does not engage in a balance of policies, it
does not make a legislative choice.

Instead, after searching

the factual record developed by the parties, it concludes that
the safety interests have not been shown to exist as a matter
of law
Third, the illusory nature of the safety interests in this case
is illustrated not only by the overwhelming empirical data
submitted by the appellants, but also by the State's willingness
to permit the use of oversized vehicles under the numerous
administrative exceptions for in-state manufacturers and important Wisconsin industries. See ante, at 433-434, nn. 4-5,
and 446-447 From 1973 through June 1975, the State issued
43,900 annual or general permits for the use of vehicles longer
than 65 feet. Brief of Plaintiffs before the District Court in
Case No. 75-C-172, App. C, 10-11. An additional 16,760
single-trip permits were granted during the same period. Id.,
at 11. Despite the alleged safety problems, the State regularly permitted the use of oversized vehicles merely to lower
the cost of transportation for in-state industries. The bulkiness of the cargoes frequently did not justify the permits. See
Deposition of Robert T Huber, Chairman of the Wisconsin
State Highway Commission, 7-9, 21, Deposition of Wayne
Volk, Chief Traffic Engineer, Wisconsin Department of Transportation, 31, 36, 49-50, 53. American Motors, one of the
State's largest employers, received permission to use oversized
trucks on the 45-mile stretch of highway between Milwaukee

RAYMOND MOTOR TRANSPORTATION, INC. v. RICE
429

BLACKMUN,

451

J., concurring

and Kenosha, even though the State's Chief Traffic Engineer
conceded that the road was heavily traveled. Deposition of
Wayne Volk, supra,at 32. Furthermore, Stoughton Body Co.,
a Wisconsin manufacturer of trailers, received permits to pull
oversized, double-trailer vehicles on a two-lane highway to
facilitate out-of-state deliveries. Id., at 52-54. The record
therefore suggests that the State in practice does not believe
that oversized, double-trailer vehicles present a threat to highway safety
Nineteen years after Bibb, then, the Court has been presented with another of those cases-"few in number"m-n
which highway safety regulations unconstitutionally burden
interstate commerce. See 359 U S., at 529. The contourmudflaps law burdened the flow of commerce through Illinois
in 1959 just as the length and configuration regulations burden
the flow through Wisconsin today It was shown that neither
the mudflaps law nor the regulations contributed to highway
safety Giving the same legislative leeway to Wisconsin that
the Court gave to Illinois, Bibb v Navajo Freight Lines
requires reversal of the judgment of the District Court.

