DENNISON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

statute and its remedies for errors and irregularities have no
application.
Our conclusion is that the decree of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah, so far as it respects the Realty
Company of Xittery, is affirmed, and that as to the other
appellees the appeal is dismissed.

DENNISON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 84.

Argued and submitted November 2, 189T.- Decided November 29, 189T.

To entitle a supervisor of elections to a valid claim against the Government,
he must make it appear that the services performed were required by the
letter of Rev. Stat. § 2020 and § 2026, or were such as were actually and
necessarily performed in the proper execution of the duties therein
prescribed, and that his charges therefor are covered by Rev. Stat.
§ 2031, or, if not fixed in the very words of that section, that by analogy
to some other service, he is entitled to make a corresponding charge.
If the services whr'e only performed for his own convenience, or were manifestly unnecessary or useless, even if they be such as he judges proper
himself, they cannot be made the basis of a claim against the Government.
It is held that the applicant, a chief supervisor, should have been allowed
for drawing instructions to supervisors, and, in the absence of proof to
the contrary, for the full amount of his claim for auditing claims of
and drawing pay rolls of supervisors, and certifying the same to the
marshal ; and all the other claims, enumerated in the opinion of the
court, are disallowed.
The ruling in Cromwell v. Sao County, 94 U. S. 351, that when a second
action between the same parties is upon a different claim or demand, the
judgment in the prior action operates as an estoppel only as to those
matters in issue or points controverted, upon the determination of
which the finding or verdict was rendered, affirmed and applied.

THis was a petition by the Chief Supervisor for the Notthern
District of New York for fees and disbursements connected
with the general election of 1890, amounting to $16,612.79, of
which $2752.60 were disallowed by the Treasury Department;
for like fees anid disbursements connected with the general
VOL. cLxvm-16

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Opinion of the Court.

electioti of 1892, amounting to $18,998.94, of which $2581.75
were disallowed; and also for fees connected with the examination of witnesses to show that certain supervisors, who had
been appointed in the city of Troy to attend a Congressional
election in 1888 had been deterred from discharging their
duties by violence, or threats of violence, by disorderly persons.
This account amounted to $624.65, of which $402.65 were disallowed.
The petition alleged that all these accounts had been approved and allowed by the District Court.
Upon a finding of facts, which do not differ materially from
those set up in the petition, the Co-urit -- Claims directed a
judgment in favor of the petitioner for $678.10, whereupon
petitioner appealed to this court.
Mr. Richard Randolph Ac'Mahon-for appellant.
M7ir. Attorney General,for appellees, submitted on their lrief,
on which were -Mr. Assitannt Attorney Geheral. Pradt, and
-Mr.Felix Brannigan.
MR.JUSTin

-BRo- delivered. the opinion of the court.

The duties of Chief Supervisors are prescribed by statute..
Rev. Stat. § 2020 and § 2026. Their fees are also fixed by
statute. § 2031. To entitle a supervisor to a valid claim
against the Government he must make it appear that the
services performhed were required by the letter of the former
sections, or were such as were actually and necessarily performed in the proper execution of the duties therein prescribed.
It must also appear that his charges therefor are covered by
the latter section, or if they are not fixed in the very words of
that' section, that, by analogy to some other service, he is entitled to make a corresponding charge. If the services are only
performed for his own convenience, or are manifestly unnecessary or useless -even if they be such as he judges proper
himself -they cannot be made the basis of a claim against
the Government.

DENISON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner in this case made a claim for his services in
the general elections of 1890 and 1892 in the aggregate sum
of $35,611.73, of which but $4265.13 appear to have been for
disbursements. Of this very large amount there was disallowed but $5334.35, an amount which was further reduced by
the judgment in his favor of $678.10 to $4656.25, which is the
amount in dispute here.
If the petitioner be entitled by law to the further sum
claimed for what are in the main clerical services, he must receive judgment for them; but as the dates of the approval of
his accounts show that his services did not extend over a period
of more than six months, he has at least no reason to complain
of the illiberalitv of the Government.
The approval of the District Court goes only to the facts
that the services were rendered as stated in the accounts, and
that in certain matters of discretion, the discretion was properly exercised. United States v. Jones, 134 U. S. 483 ; United
States v. Barber, 140 U. S. 177, 179. Neither of these cases
requires the allowance of charges obviously unnecessary.
The items disallowed by the court below will be considered
in their order:
1. -Item 4. Drawing instructions to supervisors, relative
to.their duties, 106 folios at 15 cents a folio, $15.90. As this
charge was expressly allowed in United States v. -McDermott,
140 U. S. 151, 154,
5, and in United States v. Pbinier,140
U. S. 160, 163,
3, we do not understand why the item was
rejected. Apparently it was an oversight. The Attorney
General concedes the allowance in his brief.
2. Item 5. Making copies of applications from different
cities for the appointment as supervisors, to be annexed to
the reports made to the judge, 1950 folios at 15 cents a folio,
$279.50.
Rev. Stat. § 2012 requires that the court, when
opened, shall proceed to appoint and commission under the
hand of the judge two resident citizens of each election precinct, who shall be of different political parties, etc., as supervisors. Section 2026 seems to contemplate that the judge
shall obtain his information as to the competency of the
persons receiving these appointments through the Chief Super-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

visor, who is charged with the duty of receiving the applications of all persons for appointments to such positions; of
pres'enting such applications to the judge, and furnishing information to him in respect'to the appointment of such supervisor$. The law does not require or contemplate that the
original applications shall be retained by the Chief Supervisor, .but rather that they shall be presented to the judge,
whb. may preserve them or not as he sees fit. There is not
the $lightest necessity for making copies of them. The offices
to lb :filled are purely temporary, and as soon as the election
is hed and the reports made the supervisors arefuncti officio.
The office of the applications is even more temporary than
that of the supervisors, since as soon as the appointments
are made the applications have served the purpose for which
they were intended. To speak of them as the official records
of the Chief Supervisor. is to dignify them with a title and
importance entirely foreign to their real functions. To retain
the originals and furnish the judge with copies is only to burden the Government with an utterly useless expense. There
is nothihg to show that these copies were ordered by the
court.
3.-Items 7, 8, 10, 13, 14, 21 and 27 are all of one class,
and fall within the same general principle. They are for
entering and indexing special letters of instruction to each
local supervisor, containing a notice of the supervisor's ap-.
pointinen, and general directions with regard to the method
of obtaining his commissions or concerning the proper discharge ot the duties of his office; some enclosing blank reports to Lb made of proceedings at the meeting of the boards
of registra:ion; others requiring a report of :the vote cast;
.still others notifying the supervisors of the days allowed and
the amount due, with special orders requiring them to verify
their lists; and similar directions germane to the proper discharge of their functions. The aggregate amount of these
items is $1447.65.
We see no reason for entering or indexing these letters of
instructions. There was no necessity for making separate
memoranda of them - much less copying them or preserving

DENNISON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

duplicates.

The regular course of business of the office would

authorize one to infer that instructions were sent to the local
supervisors in each case, and the names in the supervisors'
commissions would show to whom these instructions were
sent. We held in the case of United States v. McDepmott,
140 U. S. 151, 154, that the Chief Supervisor was entitled to
fifteen cents per folio for preparing and furnishing proper
instructions to supervisors, and that he was also entitled to
the expense of printing copies of such instructions for the
use of the local supervisors, but that he was not entitled to
a folio charge for each copy so furnished.
It is equally clear that he is not entitled to a charge for
entering and indexing them, as they are no proper part of
the records of his office. Letters of instructions are not
"records" in any sense of the word.
4. -Items 9, 22, 23 and 24: are for entering and indexing
special reports of the supervisors of election, either of the
proceedings at the. meeting of the board of registry or of
other matters connected with the registration, election or
compensation of the supervisors.
Petitioner is doubtless entitled to a fee of ten cents under
Rev. Stat. § 2031, for filing and caring for each of these
special reports, which are a proper part of the records of the
office, but we think the entering and indexing them were an
unnecessary burden upon the Government. These items are,.
therefore, disallowed.
5. -Items
11 and 25. Entering and indexing reports on
presentation of applications for the appointment of supervisors
of election, which reports furnished information to the judge
in respect to the qualifications of each applicant, $355.95 and
$101.10. These reports are made to the judge, and are no
part of the records of the Chief Supervisor's office. By section 2031, the charge for "entering and indexing" can only
be made where the papers are a part of the records of the
office. In view of the temporary character of these appointments, the word "record" should receive a narrow constructiott, and be limited to such documents and entries as might
subserve some useful purpose in the future. The office of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

these reports is performed when they are submitted to the
judge and the appointments are made. If he deems them of
any importance, their custody belongs to the court and'not to
the supervisor. The copying and entering of them upon his
records can be of no possible utility. It belonged to the court
to determine for itself what should be done with the originals.
6.- Item 12. Entering and indexing pay rolls of supervisors of election and certifying the same to the marshal,
$76.95. It appears to have been the duty of the. Chief
Supervisor, under the instructions of the Attorney General,
to audit and certify the amount due the supervisors, but we
see no necessity for preserving copies of them in the records
of the supervisor's office. The charge in this case is not for
auditing and certifying the amounts, but for entering, by
which we understand copying, and indexing the pay rolls,
which we consider an unnecessary burden.
7. -Items 15 and 28 include charges to the amount of
$630.60, for drawing oaths of supervisors, two folios. The
controller allowed one folio for each oath. The oath contained the statoment formerly required by section 1756i that
the affiaut had never borne arms against the United States,
etc., which, was repealed by the act of May 13, 1884, 23 Stat;
21, the repealing act providing that in the future every person
appointed to any office should take the oath prescribed by
section 1757. The oath thus prescribed is less than one folio.
in length. The case is evidently not one for a liberal construction of the statute. These items are accordingly disallowed.
8. - Item 17. Auditing claims of and drawing.pay rolls of
supervisors of election for their claims for service, and certifying the same to the marshal for payment, 773 folios, of which
the controller disallowed 531 folios, the difference being $81.60.
There is no finding in connection with this item as to whether
the count of the supervisor or of the controller was correct.
Nor is any reason given for the disallowance of the 531 folios.
As the account was verified by the oath of the claimant that
each and every service charged therein had been necessarily
performed, and as the District Court allowed the-item, we

DENNISON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

think it was incumbent upon the Government to show that the
claimant charged for an excessive number of folios. We are
therefore of opinion that this item should be allowed.
9.-Item 18. Entering and indexing applications of persons
applying to be appointed supervisors of election, etc., $286.95.
This was not a charge for fling recommendations for appointments or for indexing appointmewts, which charges were
allowed ii Uititee State v. Poinier,140 U. S. 160, but for
entering and indexing the applications. As we have already
held that the law does not contemplate that these papers
shall become the records of the office, the service was evidently wholly unnecessary.
10.-Items 19 and 20. Entering and indexing the oaths
of supervisors and special deputy marshals, of which the controller allowed a part and disallowed a larger part, the difference being $671.70. It does not appear why the controller
allowed less than one-half of these items; but as we think the
whole charge should have been disallowed, it is unnecessary
to seek an excuse for disallowing a moiety. It is true that
Rev. Stat. § 2027 requires the commissioners, with all due
diligence, to forward to the Chief Supervisor all oaths of
office administered to any supervisor of election, in order
that the same may be properly preserved and filed. They
thereby become a part of the records of the Chief Supervisor's
office, aud he is properly entitled to a fee for filing the same;
but it does not, therefore, follow that he is entitled to a
separate fee for entering and indexing them. As we observed
in Poinier'scase, page 162, "it does not, however, follow that
every paper which the law authorizes to be filed must, thereforef be recorded or copied. To entitle a paper or document
to be recorded, it should have some pprmanent value. Where
the original paper is preserved or filed, -such for instance as
the pleadings, exhibits, depositions or other papers in a common suit at law or equity, no necessity ordinarily exists for
its being recorded. As a charge of ten cents for filing these
informations was allowed by the department, the exception to
this item for recording -and indexing is, therefore, sustained."
The same remarks are applicable to the charge in this caso-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner was entitled to ten cents for filing and caring
for every paper to be filed by him; but he does not thereby
become entitled to a separate fee for entering and indexing
them.
11.-Item 26. Making, entering and indexing records,
such as mail lists containing supervisors' names and post office
*addresses, with columns for checking matter sent out by mail,
and also receiving lists, etc. These lists are obviously no part
of the record, and the item should be disallowed.
12. - Item 31. Entering and indexing certain depositions
and evidence taken in the matter of the claim made that
certain supervisors had been unable to discharge the duties
of their office by reason of violence and threats of violence,
$172.35. For the reasons already stated with reference to
the'items for entering and indexing oaths, we think that the
supervisor was entitled to a charge of ten cents for filing
these depositions, but he is not entitled to the large charge
of $172.35 for entering and indexing them. This charge is
also disallowed.
The underlying vice of the petitioner's theory throughout
this whole account consists in the assumption that every
paper or d6cument which comes into or issues from his hands,
or is prepared by him officially, even though it be for a purely
temporary purpose, constitutes an official record, and that it
is within his discretion that every such paper shall be entered
(copied) in durable books and indexed in a permanent form.
This is not the case. Even in courts of justice, which are a
permanent feature of every civilized government, the judgment record which the clerk is aqthorized to enter in a book
kept for that purpose, does not include, every paper found in
the files of the case, nor even the depositions of witnesses,
but is confined to the pleadings and proceedings necessary to
make up a complete history of the suit. Much more is this
the case with the records of the Chief Supervisor, which exist
only for a temporary purpose, and after a year or two lose
practically their entire value. It is true that the Chief Supervisor is entitled to exercise a certain discretion as to what
papers he shall enter upon a permanent book, but to enter a

DENNISON v. UN ITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

hundred letters, each of which must be substantially a copy
of every other, excepting the address, is so manifestly an
abuse .of his discretion that no court should tolerate it for a
moment. It is not for us to determine what are the records
which should be entered and indexed. It is sufficient to say
that, for the purposes of this case, we have no difficulty in
determining what are not.
The plea of reejudicata,arising from the fact that the claimant brought an action in 1887 in the Court of Claims to recover
for various items of service of the same nature and description
as those claimed in this case, and that the court found in his
favor and rendered judgment against the United States for the
amount claimed, is not well taken. There is no finding of fact
in connection with this plea, and we can only judge of what
the issue was by reading the opinion of the Court of Craims.
25 C. Cl. 304. From this opinion it appears that the items of
the account were not passed upon in detail, but that the court
rendered judgment in favor of the claimant upon the ground
that the approval of the account by the District Court, under
the decision in United States v. Jones, 134: U. S. 483, threw
upon the Government the burden of disproving the correctness
of the several items. That the court did not approve the items
as charged is evident from its statement that "on the argument
it was maintained by the counsel for the government that the
claimant had failed to establish the quantum of his services and
expenditures by competent evidence, and, as to many of the
items, such is the opinion of the court."
Furthee than this, however, the suit under consideration is
not for the same items as those allowed in the former case,
but for similar items, and the case falls within our ruling in
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351, that "where the second
action between the same parties is upon a different claim or
demand, the judgment in the prior action operates as an
estoppel only as to those matters in issue or points controverted, upon the determination of which the finding or verdict
was rendered." There was no issue raised and decided in the
-former case as to the legality of the several items considered
separately, but such issue is clearly raised in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
StAtement of the Case.

While we think the judgment of the Court of Claims was
correct with respect to all the items involved in this case, with
the exception of two, the aggregate amount of which is $97.50,
for its error in respect to those two the judgment will have to
be varied by increasing the same from $678.10 to $775.60 and
subject to such increase it is, in all other respects,
-Affirmed.

UNDERHILL v. HERNANDEZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CICUIT.
No. 88. Argued October 22, 25,1897. -Decided

November 29,189T.

Hernandez was in command of a revolutionary army in Venezuela when an
engagement took place with the government forces which resulted in
the defeat of the latter, and the occupation of Bolivar by the former.
Underhill was living in Bolivar, where he had constructed a waterworks
system for the city under a contract with the government, and carried
on a machinery repair business. He applied for a passport to leave the
city, which was refused by Hernandez with a view to coerce him to
operate his waterworks and his repair works for the benefit of the community and the revolutionary forces.
Subsequently a passport was
given him. The revolutionary government under which Hernandez was
acting was recognized by the United States as the legitimate government
of Venezuela.
Subsequently Underhill sued Hernandez in the Circuit
Court for the Second Circuit to recover damages caused by the refusal
to grant the passport, for alleged confinement of him to his own house,
and for alleged assaults and affronts by Hernandez' soldiers. Judgment
being rendered for defendant the case was taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, where the judgment was affirmed, the court holding 11tha t
the acts of the defendant were the acts of Venezuela, and as such are
not properly the subject of adjudication in the courts of another government." Held that the Circuit Court of Appeals was justified in that conclusion.
Every sovereign State is bound to respect the independence of every other
sovereign State, and the courts of one country will not sit in judgment
on the acts of the government of another, done within its own territory.

IN the early part of 1892 a revolution was initiated in
Venezuela against the administration thereof, which the revo-

