WARNER v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.

339

Syllabus.

It does not appear to have been suggested by the defendant
in either of the courts of the Territory, and could not successfully be contended, that in estimating the damages or the
profits which the plaintiff was entitled to recover, any deduction should be made by reason of his not having performed during those two years the services, as manager of
the business, which he had agreed by the partnership articles
to. perform. No finding as to the value of such services was
made or requested; and the defendant himself, not only refused to let the plaintiff, as he offered to do, perform them
during those two years, but, in his answer and at the hearing before the referee, insisted that the plaintiff's services as
manager were of no benefit to the partnership.
The result is that, whether the partnership should or should
not be considered to have been dissolved when the defendant
ousted the plaintiff and assumed the exclusive possession and
control of the property and business of the partnership, the
defendant has shown no ground for reversing or modifying
the final decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory.
Decree affirmed.

WARNER v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 82. Argued November 1, 2, 1897. -Decided

November 29,1897.

This was an action to recover for the death of plaintiff's testator, caused by
a train striking him while crossing the track of defendant's road. The
results of the evidence at the trial are condensed in the statement of the
case, below, which cannot well be abridged. Upon them the court below ordered a verdict and judgment in defendant's favor. Held, that the
peremptory instruction by the trial court and the affirmance of its action
by the appellate court manifestly proceeded not on the theory that, as a
matter of law, there was no negligence on the part of the defendant,
but that the proof of contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff
was so conclusive as to leave no question for the consideration of thejury;

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
but that apart from any question which might have arisen from the proof
as an entirety, and apart from the conflicting evidence as to the failure to
give warning or proper signals, in the light of the ruling in Chicago, Muilwaukee &c. Railway v. Lowell, 151 U. S. 209, it is obvious there was no
room reasonably to claim that it should have been determined, as matter
of law, that the railroad company had nbt been negligent.
The rule of the defendant company that "when one passenger train is
standing at a station receiving or discharging passengers on double
track no other train, either passenger or freight, will attempt to run past
until the passenger train at the station has moved on or signal is given
by the conductor of the standing train for them to come ahead, and the
whistle must not be sounded while passing a passenger train on double
track or sidings unless it is absolutely necessary," Is a proper one, and
applies to this case.
The duty owing by a railroad company to a passenger, actually or constructively in its care, is of such a character that the rules of law regulating
the conduct of a traveller upon the highway when about to cross and the
trespasser who ventures upon the tracks of a railroad company are not a
proper criterion by which to determine whether or not a passenger who
sustains injury in going upon the tracks of the railroad was guilty of
contributory negligence.
A railroad company owes to one standing towards it in the relation of a
passenger a different and higher degree of care from ihat which is due
to mere trespassers or strangers, and it is conversely equally true that
the passenger, under given conditions, has a right to rely upon the exercise by the road of care; and the question of whether or not he is negligent, under all circumstances, must be determined on due consideration
of the obligations of both the company and the passenger.
When a given state of facts is such that reasonable men may fairly differ
upon the question as to whether there was negligence or not, the determining the matter is for the jury.

* THis action was begun in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia to recover damages for the killing of the plaintiff's intestate on June 22, 1893, at a suburban station of the
city of Washington, located on the line of the defendant's
oad, known as University station.
It appeared from the evidence that at the station referred
to the company operated a double track road, the tracks running substantially from north to south, the southerly direction
leading to Washington and the northerly direction leading
away from -that city. -The two -tracks-being side by side, one
consequently lay to the west and the other to the east. The
distance between the rails of each track was four feet eight

WARNER v. BALTIMTORE & OIO RAILROAD CO.

341

Statement of the Case.

and a half inches, while the distance between the east and
west tracks, respectively, was seven feet five inches.
At the place in question the station building wag on the
outer side of the west track, and contained a waiting room,
a ticket office and the other conveniences of a passenger
station. Fronting the station building and beside the track
was the necessary platform to enable passengers to enter or
descend from any train which might there stop. In the space
between- the east and west track there was no platform or
other facility for passengers either to enter or leave' the train,
but on. the other side of the east track there was a platform
which was uncovered, but which was manifestly constructed for
the purpose of facilitating the entry into or departure from
any train which might stop at that point on the east track.
These east and west platforms were connected by a plank crossing, which came opposite the centre of the station building.
There was a road crossing adjoining the station, and the
travel was such as seems to have necessitated the use of crossing gates and the employment by the railroad company of a
gate watchman. On the east side of the track there was
also a settlemnent known as Brookland, and several of the
witnesses who testified at the trial lived in the immediate
vicinity of the station in question.
Whilst, as we have said, the substantial direction of the
two tracks was north and south, nevertheless the proof showed
that in the southward direction of the tracks, that is, towards
Washington, the tracks were not perfectly straight, but were
somewhat curved. As to the foregoing facts, there seems
from the bill of exceptions to have been no conflict of proof.
There was proof tending to show that on the morning -of
the accident, at about twenty minutes past seven o'clock, the
deceased alighted at University station from a local train
bound to Washington. One of the stopping points of such
train on the way to University station was a small station
known as Forest Glen. After attending to some business in
the neighborhood of University station, Collis returned to that
station at about half-past eight o'clock on the same morning.
He was then seen engaged in conversation with several persons

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

in or about the station building, which we have already
described. There was a local train bound out froin Washington, that is, going north, which was scheduled to stop at
Forest Glen, and which was due to arrive at University
station at nine minutes past nine o'clock, whilst there was an
express train bound to Washington scheduled, to pass the
same station at eleven minutes past nine. The proof tended
to -show that the local train arrived at University station a
few minutes late, and that either as- it was stopping at the
east platform or after it had actually stopped there Collis,
who had in his possession a return-trip ticket from University
station to Forest Glen, hurriedly went from under the arch of
the station building in the direction of the local train. There
was conflict in the proof as to whether when Collis started,
the local train had actually stopped on the east track or was
slowing-down. There was also conflict in the evidence as to
where Collis was when he started to the local train. The
engineer of the express train testified "that after he. got by
the whistling post he saw Mr. Collis standing on the platform,
but did not think that Collis would go over," and that it
was not until Collis started across that he gave the danger
signals; . whereas another witness for the defence testified
that Collis was sitting behind the arch of the station building
when the local train arrived, and as it did so he went around
the station building " t o cross the track.and get on his train,"
and "started straight across, did not stop at all and did not
look in either direction." There was conflict also in the proof
as to whether, in crossing towards the train, Collis went on
the crosswalk connecting the two platforms, or diagonally
upon the track away from the board walk and bearing
towards the local train. Some of the witnesses testified that
as he started toward the local train, not being opposite a
platform by which to enter a coach, he obliquely directed his
course towards the south as though to reach the platform
and steps of a car on the local train, whilst other testimony
tended to show that as he came out from under the arch and
around the building he pursued a course directly across the
track towards the local train.

WARNER v. BALTIMORE & 010O

RAILROAD CO

343

Statement of the Case.

The testimony moreover established that whilst Collis was
making the movement towards the local train, in one or the
other of the modes above described, the express came down
-the west track, past the station, running by the standing or
stopping local train at the rate of between forty and forty-five
miles an hour, and that.by the train so moving Collis was
struck and killed. The proof further tended to show that
there was a clear view of the track going north from the
station for a considerable distance, and that there was a
whistling post for the station located fifteen or sixteen hundred feet beyond the station. There was no proof, however,
showing that a view of the rapidly moving express train was
possible from under the archway of the station from which
some of the proof tended to show Collis came on his way
towards the local train.
There was conflict in the testimony as to whether the
express train whistled at the whistling post. Some of the
witnesses testified that the only signal given as the train
approached the station was the danger signal which was
sounded when the engine was only fifty or sixty feet from the
point where Collis was killed; while others testified that a
long blast for the station was sounded at the whistling post.
There was no proof tending to show that any notice or warning, by sign or otherwise, wts given, of the danger which
might be incurred if a passenger attempted to cross the west
track in order to board a train on the east track, nor was
there any proof offered tending to show that any warning or
notice was given, either by the ticket agent, gate watchman
or the employ~s of the local train, to passengers actually in
waiting at the station, of the fact that the express train was
due under its schedule, and, if on time, would pass the station
without stopping, and almost simultaneously with the arrival
of the local train.
It was proven that a book of rules issued by the company
to its employ~s contained the following:
"No. 4A1. When one passenger train is standing at a
station receiving or discharging passengers on double track
no other train, either passenger or freight, will attempt to

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

run past until the passenger train at the station has moved on
or signal is given by the conductor of the standing train for
them to come ahead, and the whistle must not be sounded
while passing a passenger train on double track or sidings
unless it is absolutely necessary."
While the engineer of the express train testified that coming down towards University station he saw the local train
and did not know whether it was moving or had stopped
entirely, or was going to stop or not, he also admitted that he
knew of the existence of Rule 44-1, but that "it was impossible to carry out the rule and make schedule time, and that
the rule never was carried out."
At the close of the evidence for both parties the defendant
requested a peremptory instruction in his favor, which the
,court gave, and by reason thereof the jury returned a verdict
in favor of the defendant. From the judgment. thereupon
entered an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, where the judgment was affirmed.
The case was then brought into this court by writ of error.
NPf'. Rodo phe Clughton for plaintiff in error.
_A&. G. E. Hamilton for defendant in error.
Colbert -wason his brief.

.

M. T21.

MR. JusTiOE WmTrE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The peremptory instruction by the trial court and the
affirmance of its action by the appellate court manifestly proceeded not on the theory that, as a matter of law, there was
no negligence on the part of the defendant, but that the
proof of contributory negligenc.e, on the part of the plaintiff
was so conchisive as to leave no question for the consideration
of the jury. Indeed, apart from any question which may
have arisen from the proof as an entirety, and apart from the
conflicting evidence as to the failure to give warning or
proper signals, in the light of the ruling in -0hicago, X3il-

WARNER v. BALTI

ORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO..

345

Opinion of the Court.

waukee &c. Railway v. Lowell, 151 U. S. 209, it is obvious
there was no room reasonably to claim that it should have
been determined, as matter of law, that the railroad company
had not been negligent. In the Lowell case, as in this, it was
shown that a rule of the company, applicable where double
tracks were operated, prohibited any train, either passenger
or freight, from attempting to run past a passenger train
standing at a station for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers, until the passenger train at the station had
moved on, or signal was given by the conductor of the standing train for the other train to come ahead. Spealdng of such
a rule, and after declaring that it could not be seriously contended that the defendant was free from fault in failing to
stop its train, in compliance, with its own rule, the court said
(page 217): "In view of the frequency of accidents occurring
to passengers crossing one track at a station, after .alighting
from a train standing upon inother track, the rule is doubtless a proper one, and if it had been observed on that evening
this accident would probably not have occurred."
The cogency of this language applies with equal force to
the state of facts disclosed in this record, where the station in
which was:the waiting room was so situated, and the trains
of the company so operated, that passengers obliged to board
a train which was to arrive ari4 depart on the east track could
not do so without crossing the west track, over which. a train
bound in an opposite direction was momentarily to arrive.
If the stopping of a train at a station to put off a passenger,
as held in the Lowell case, may, under certain circumstances,
justify the passenger in presuming that it is safe for him to
alight from the train away from a platform, and does not
impose upon him in so doing the same degree of care and
caution as would be imposed on him if he were not a passenger, it follows, necessarily, that the same rule would apply
to one waiting at a station to take a train and who approaches
the train he is to take when it arrives at the station.
The learned court below, in affirming the judgment of. the
trial court, principally rested its conclusion on the ruling in
Elliott v. Ohicago, .Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 150 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

245, and the authorities in that case referred to. But there
.the cuestion for determination was the negligence of one not
a passenger.
The duty owing by a railroad company to a passenger,
actually or constructively in its care, is of such a character
that the rules of law regulating the conduct of a traveller upon
the highway when about to cross and the trespasser who ventures upon the tracks of a railroad company are not a proper
criterion by which to determine whether or not a passenger
who-sustains injury in-going upon the tracks of the railroad
was guilty of contributory negligence. A railroad company
owes to one standing towards it in the relation of a passenger
a different and higher degree of care from that which is due
to mere trespassers or strangers, and it is conversely equally
true that the passenger, under given conditions, has a right to rely upon the exercise by the road of care; and the question
of whether or not he is negligent,. tnder all circumstances,
must be determined on due consideration of the obligations of
both the company and the passenger. As said by the Court
of Appeals of New York in Terry v. Jewett, 78 N. Y. 338, 344:
"There is a difference between the care and caution demanded in crossing a railroad track on a highway and in
crossing while at a depot of a railroad company to reach the
cars. No absolute rule can be laid down to govern the passenger in the latter case under all circumstances. While a passenger has a right to pass from the depot to the train on
which such passenger intends to travel, and the company
should furnish reasonable and adequate protection against accident in the enjoyment of this privilege, the passenger is
bound to exercise proper care, prudence and caution in avoiding danger. . The degree of care and caution must be governed
in all cases by the extent of the peril to be encountered and
the circumstances attending the exposure."
And in the case before the court it was held to be a question
for the jury, under all the circumstances, whether the plaintiff was chargeable with contributory negligence.
The doctrine of the Terry case was approved in Br'assell v.
.Nfew York Central &c. Railroad,84 N. Y. 246, and is sup-

WARNER v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.

347

Opinion of the Court.

ported by the following authorities: Atchison &c. Railroadv.
Shean, 18 Colorado, 368; Phil.Wil. & Balt. Railroad v. Andereon, 72 Maryland, 519, 530; Bait. & Ohio Railroad v.
State, 60 Maryland, 449, 463, 465; Pennsylvania Railroadv.
White, 88 Penn. St. 327, 333, 334:; Jewett v.'_7lein,k 27 N. J"
Eq. 550; ]Flteelock v. Boston c Albany Railroad,105 Mass.
203.
To concede the rule, and, in a given case, to take a passenger beyond its protection by holding that one who goes in
proper time to a station for the purpose of taking a train over
the road and has a ticket for travel thereon, is not to-be considered as a passenger until he has manifested by some outward act his intention to board a train and become a passenger, is to admit the rule on the one band and on the other to
deny it. It is also clear that to say that one who goes to a
station to take a train must exercise the same circumspection
and care as a traveller on the highway or a trespasser, unless
by some implication the corporation has invited the person to
deport himself as a passenger, and that such implication must
be determined as matter of law by the court and not of fact
by the jury, is, in effect, under the form of a qualification, to
destroy the rule.
The situation of the tracks, the location of the station
building and the waiting, room, the coming of the local train
and its stopping to receive passengers in a position which
required the latter to cross a track in order to reach the train,
involved necessarily a condition of things, which under one
view of the testimony constituted an implied invitation to the
passenger to follow the only course which he could bave followed in order to take the train, that is, to cross the track to
the waiting train. Whilst it is true, is was said in Terry v.
Jewett, supra, that such implied invitation would not absolve
a passenger from the duty to exercise care and caution in
avoiding danger, nevertheless it certainly would justify him
in assuming that, in holding out the invitation to board the
train, the corporation had not so arranged its business as to
expose him to the hazard of danger to life and limb unless
be exercised the very highest degree of care and caution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The railroad, under such circumstances, in giving the invitation, must necessarily be presumed to have taken into view
the state of mind and of conduct which would be engendered
by the invitation, and the passenger, on the other hand, would
have a right to presume that in giving the invitation the railroad itself had arranged for the operation of its trains with
proper care. The doctrine finds a very clear expression in a
passage, in the opinion in the Terry case, already referred to,
where it,was said (p. 342):
"It may be assumed that a railroad corporation, in the
exercise of ordinary care, so regulates the running of its trains
that the road is free from interruption or obstruction where
passenger trains stop at a station fo receive and deliver passengers. Any other system would be dangerous to human life,
and impose great risks upon those who might have occasion
to travel on the railroad."
When a given state of facts is such that reasonable men
may fairly differ upon the question as to whether there was
negligence or not, the determination of the matter is for the
jury. Grand Trunk Railway v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408, 417;
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Griffith, 159 U. S. 603, 611;
Texas & Paciflc Railway v. Gentry, 163 U. S. 353, 368. A
like doctrine was thus expressed by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania in Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. White, 88
Penn. St. 32T, 333, a case in many respects analogous to the
present one:
"legligence has been defined to be 'the absence of care
according to -the circumstances,' and is always a question for
the jury when there is reasonable doubt as to the facts, or as
to the inferences to be drawn from them. When the measure
of duty is ordinary and reasonable care, and the degree of
care varies according to circumstances, the question of negligence is necessarily for the jury."
We think the case presented by the record is not one where
the facts inferable from the evidence were such that all reasonable men would, of necessity, dra~w the same conclusion
from them, and the question of negligence was not, therefore,
one of law for the court.

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

34:9

Statement of the Case.

It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment be
Reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to grant a
new trial, and for further proceedingy in conformity to
law.

MR.JusTIcE BREWER is of the opinion that the deceased was
guilty of contributory negligence.

ST. ANTHONY FALLS WATER POWER COMPANY
v. ST. PAUL WATER COMMISSIONERS.
MINNEAPOLIS MILL COMPANY v. SAME.
Nos.

23, 24.

Argued October 18, 14, 1897. -Decided

November 29,1897.

The rights of riparian owners of land situated upon navigable rivers are
to be measured by the rules and decisions of the courts of the State in
which the land is situated, whether it be one of the original States or a
State admitted after the adoption of the Constitution.
The Mississippi is a navigable river at all the points referred to in the
records in these cases.
The grants made to the plaintiffs in error by the acts of February 26, 1856,
and February 27, 1856, of the legrslature of the Territory of Minnesota,
to maintain dams and sluices in the Mississippi River, etc., etc., were subject at all times to the paramount right of the public to divert a portion
of the waters for public uses, and to the rights, in regard to navigation
and commerce existing in the General Government, under the Constitution of the United States; and under those grants the plaintiffs in error.
took no contract rights which have been impaired in any degree by the
acts of the legislature of Minnesota respecting the public waterworks
of the city of St. Paul.

THE[E, actions were brought in a District Court of the State
of Minnesota, by the respective plaintiffs in error against the
defendant in error for the purpose of recovering damages for
injury to their alleged rights as riparian owners and otherwise,
at St. Anthony Falls on the Mississippi River, and also for a
perpetual injunction enjoining the defendant in error from
diverting the waters above so as to prevent them from flow-

