CASES ADJUDGED
INTH

SUPREM-E COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 71. Argued December 2, 3, 1S96.-Decided October 18, 1897.
The cases of United States V. Southern Pacific Railroad, 146 U. S. 570, and
United States v. Colton Marble and Lime Co. and United States v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 146 U. S. 615, held to have adjudged, as between
the United States and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company:
(1) That the maps filed by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company in
1872 were sufficient, as maps of definite location, to identify the
lands granted to that company by the act of Congress of July 27,
1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292;
(2) That upon the acceptance of those -maps by the Land Department,
the rights of that company in the lands so granted, attached, by
relation, as of the date of that act ; and,
(3) That in view of the conditions attached to the grant, and of the
reservations of power in Congress contained in the act of 1866,
such lands became, upon the passage of the act of July 6, 1886,
c. 637, 24 Stat. 123, forfeiting the lands granted to the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company, the property of the United States
and by force of that act were restored to the public domain, without the Southern Pacific Railroad Company having acquired any
Interest therein that affected the ownership of the United States.
VOL. CLXVD1-I
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
A right, question or fact distinctly put in issue and directly determined by
a court of competent jurisdiction, as a ground of recovery, cannot be
disputed in a subsequent suit between the same parties or their privies ;
and even if the second suit is for a different cause of action, the right,
question or fact once so determined must, as between the same parties
or their privies, be taken as conclusively established, so long as the
judgment in the first suit remains unmodified.
The 45th Rule of Equity, providing that " no special replication to any
answer shall be filed," and that "if any matter alleged in the answer
shall make it necessary for the plaintiff, to amend his bill, he may have
leave to amend the same with or without payment of costs, as the court,
or a judge thereof, may in his discretion direct," means, at most, that a
general replication is always sufficient to put in issue every material
allegation of an answer or amended answer, unless the rules of pleading
imperatively require an amendment of the bill; and such an amendment
is not required in order to set out that which may be used simply as
evidence to establish any fact -or facts put in issue by the pleadings.
Where a former recovery is given in evidence, it is equally conclusive, in
its effect, as if it were specially pleaded by the way of estoppel.

THIS suit was brought by the United States to. quiet its
title to a large tract of land in California, acquired under the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and now set apart by act of
Congress and the President's proclamation, issued thereunder,
as part of a public reservation.
The facts involved, and the legislation affecting the rights
of the respective parties, do not vary materially from those
set forth in United States v. Southern Pacific Railroad,
146 U. S. 570.
In view of the full statement there, and of the still fuller
statement in the opinion of the court in this case, it is sufficient, for the purpose of understanding the argument 6f counsel reported below, to give the following facts:
1. By the act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, Congress created a corporation called the Atlantic and Pacific
Railrbad Company; authorized it to construct a railroad from
Missouri to the Colorado River, and thence, across the State
of California, to the Pacific; and made a grant of public
lands to aid in the construction of that railroad. In the same
act it further authorized the Southern Pacific Railroad Company to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad at or
near the boundary of California; and it made similar grants

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

3

Statement of the Case.

to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, to aid in its
construction.
2. Under the act of July 27, 1866, the Atlantic and Pacific
Company constructed a part of its road, but did no work west
of the Colorado River, the east line of the State of California.
3. By the act of March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573, the
Southern Pacific Company was authorized to construct a railroad by way of Los Angeles to the Texas Pacific Railroad at
or near the Colorado River, "with the same rights, grants
and privileges, and subject to the same limitations, restrictions and conditions, as were granted to said Southern Pacific
Railroad Company of California by the act of July 27, 1866,
provided, however, that this section shall in no way affect or
impair the rights, present or prospective, of the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company."
4. The Southern Pacific Company constructed such contemplated railroad, and claims in this suit that the lands in
dispute passed to it under the act of 1871.
5. By the act of July 6, 1886, c. 637, 2d: Stat. 123, entitled
"An act to forfeit the lands granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company," etc., it was enacted "that all the
lands, excepting the right of way and the right, power and
authority given to said corporation to take from the public
land adjacent to the line of said road material of earth, stone,
timber and so forth, for the construction thereof, including
all necessary grounds for station buildings, workshops, depots,
machine shops, switches, side tracks, turn-tables and water
stations, heretofore granted to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company by an act of C6ngress entitled 'An act granting lands to aid in the construction of railroad and telegraph
lines from the States of Missouri and Arkansas to the Pacific
Coast,' approved July twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and
sixty-six, and subsequent acts and joint resolutions of Congress
which are adjacent to and coterminous with the uncompleted
portions of the main line of said road, embraced within both
the granted and the indemnity limits, as contemplated to be
constructed under and by the provisions of said act of July
twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, and acts and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

joint resolutions subsequent thereto and relating to the construction of said road and'teIegraph line be, and the same are
hereby, declared forfeited and restored to the public domain."
6. On April 3,1871, the Southern Pacific Company filed a
map of its route from Tehachapa Pass to the Texas Pacific
Railroad, and proceeded to construct its road, and finished the
entire construction in 1878. The road crossed the line of the
Atlantic and Pacific Company as located. The lands in controversy in the cases reported in 146 U. S., 570 and 615, were
within the granted or place limits of both the Atlantic and Pacific Company and the Southern Pacific Company, at the place
where the lines crossed each other. The Southern Pacific
Company claimed that as it had constructed its road, and as
the other company had not done the same, the lands became
its property. It was to test this claim of title, and to restrain
trespasses by the railroad company and those claiming title
under it, that the suits reported in 146 U. S. were instituted.
7. The decisions in those cases were adverse to the Southern
Pacific Company. This court held, as stated in the head note,
that the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, having duly
filed a valid and sufficient map of definite location of its route
from the Colorado River to the Pacific Ocean, which was
approved by the Secretary of the Interior, the title to the]ands in dispute passed thereby to that company under the
grant of July 27, 1866, and remained held by it, subject to
a condition subsequent, until their. forfeiture under the. act
of July 6, 1886; and that by that act of.forfeiture the title
thereto was retaken by the United States, for its own benefit,
and not for that of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
whose grant never attached to the lands, so as to give that
company any title of any kind to them.
8. Then this suit was brought, in which the principal contention on the part of the United States was that the lands
in dispute- are in the same category, in every respect, with
those in controversy in the cases reported in 146 U. S. ; and
that, so far as the question of title is concerned, the judgments in those cases conclusively determined, as between the
United States and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

5

Argument for Appellants.

and its privies, the essential facts upon which the Government
rests.
9. In the former cases the United States insisted that the
controlling matter was, whether the maps of location, filed
by the Atlantic and Pacific iRailroad .Company in 1871, and
which were accepted by the Land Department as sufficiently
designating that company's line of road, under the act of
July 27, 1866, were valid as maps of definite location. The
United States contended that they were maps of that character. The Southern Pacific Company contended that they
were not. The issue so made was determined in favor of
the United States. In this case the United States insisted
that, it having been so determined, and the lands here in dispute being within the limits of the line of road so designated,
it was not open to the Southern Pacific Company to question the result reached in the suits reported in 146 U. S.
Such maps, it was claimed, sufficiently identified the lands
granted by Congress to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company by the act of 1866, and were therefore valid maps
of definite location.
Mr. JToseph H. Choate (with whom were Mr. J Hubley
A8hton and Mr. C/arles IT. Tweed on the brief) for appellants.
The lands involved in this suit are within the limits which
would have appertained to a grant to the Atlantic and Pacific
upon the 1872 route, if that had been an authorized route, and
if a definite location had been duly made thereon so as to
attach the grant to specific lands.
I. The decrees in the former cases decided by this court
in 1892, 146 U. S. 570, 615, are not conclusive in this suit
in favor of the United States, either as res judicata, or as an
estoppel, or as evidence.
(a) The causes of action are different, and the judgment in the
former action can operate as an estoppel only as to the point
or question actually litigated and determined, and not as to
other matters which might have been litigated or determined,
according to the principle emphatically decided by this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

in Cromwell v. Sao County, 91 U. S. 351; Davis v. Brown,
94 U. S. 423; ]fesbit v. Riverside Independent District, 144
U. S. 610 ; Wilnington c Weldon Railroadv. Alsbrook, 146
I. S. 279, 302; _Yeokuk, & Western Railroad v. .Missouri,
152 U. S. 301, 314, 315; Zast Chance .Mining Co. v. Tyler
lMining Co., 157 _U. S. 683, 687; Roberts v. 2orthern Pacific
Railroad,158 U. S. 1, 27, 28, 29.
The main question or point presented for determination in
the present case was neither litigated nor determined in the
former cases.
We ask the judgment of the court in this case upon new
questions of law, arising upon newand different facts.
Stated generally, the decision of the court in the former
case against the contention of the defendants was, that, notwithstanding the fact that the line shown upon the four maps
)f the Atlantic and Pacific Company was a line from the
Needles to San Francisco, this was a valid designation of line
between the Needles and San Buenaventura, and was not
invalid and ineffectual because the line claimed extended from
the Needles to San Francisco; that the grant to the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad C6mpany took effect. upon the lands in
dispute in that suit by relation as of the date of the grant,
when (as was assumed in that case) that company filed maps
of definite location; that therefore the subsequent grant to the
Southern Pacific did not embrace those lands, but they were
excluded or excepted from it, so that, when the lands in California claimed in that case adjacent to the unconstructed portion of the Atlantic and Pacific were declared forfeited and
restored to the public domain by the act of Congress of 1886,
the Southern Pacific, whose grant but for the prior grant to
the Atlantic and Pacific would have embraced the same lands,
took nothing under its grant by reason of the forfeiture.. In
passing upon the above questions this court treated the Atlantic and Pacific Maps of 1872 as bonafide maps 'of definite location. The question then litigated was, whether the Atlantic
and Pacific had the right to locate a line to San Francisco, or,
if not, whether the location was valid between the Needles
and San IBuenaventura.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

'

Argument for Appellants.

Stated generally, the claim of the defendants here is that
the Atlantic and Pacific never did file any maps of definite
location of a railroad in California; that the maps which they
did file, indicating in a rude and wholly inaccurate way a line
opposite the lands in question here, were in no sense maps of
definite location, were at the best a mere general" designation
of route, and that therefore the grant to the Atlantic and
Pacific never did attach to the lands within the withdrawal
limits opposite this line, or to any specific lands in the State
of California, and that they were therefore not excluded or
excepted from the grant of 1871 to the Southern Pacific,
which, by virtue of its designation of general route, and building the road, and filing maps of definite location, became the
absolute owner of the lands within the prescribed limits opposite thereto, under that grant.
It is thus manifest at-the first blush that the question of the
bonaf des of the maps of the Atlantic and Pacific, as maps of
definite location, and the bona tides of any claim that these
should be so regarded, was never litigated or determined in
the former actions. A critical analysis of the proceedings,
and the decision in the former actions, makes this absolutely
certain.
The three objections raised by the defendants to the validity of the alleged designation of the Atlantic and Pacific line
were overruled by the court. These objections were: 1. That
the maps were filed at different times, in sections, of segments
of its proposed route. 2. That these maps were filed in the
office of the Secretary of the Interior instead of the General
Land Office; and 3. (which was the objection mainly relied
upon), That the route,. as originally designated, ran to San
Francisco as the ultimate objective point, instead of by the
most eligible and practicable route from the Needles to the
Pacific Ocean, as prescribed in the act.
These questions as to the validity and effectiveness of the
designation of route were raised, discussed and determined
adversely to the defendants.
There was, however, no issue in that case as to whether the
maps of 1872 were or were not valid maps of definite loca-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

tion, as distinguished from maps of preliminary location or
designation of route.
We submit that, from the opinion of the court in the former
actions, it is beyond dispute that the point now raised by the
defendants appears distinctly not to have been litigated or
determined, and, the cause of action being different in the
present action, the defendants are not by the former judgment precluded from maintaining the ground on which they
now stand, namely, that the Atlantic and Pacific Company
never did locate, that is, definitely locate its line west of the
Colorado River, and that the grant to that company never
did take effect upon the lands in suit, or any other specific
lands in the State of California, and that there is therefore
nothing to interfere with the passage of the title to the
Southern Pacific Company.
(b) But if we look behind the final decision in. the court of
last resort to the pleadings as set forth in the former cases,
we shall find that the point now relied on was not then put
in issue or raised, which is fatal to any claim of res judicata
or estoppel. Cromwell v. Sac, 94 U. S.353; Davis v. Brown,
94 U. S.428; Johnson Co. v. Wharton, 152 U. S. 261. A
judgment against a plaintiff who would have had to establish
several facts to maintain his case, is not an estoppel as to any
specific fact, unless that specific fact was actually litigated.
Long v. Baugas, 2 Ired. (Law), 290; Angel v. tollister, 38
N. Y. 378.
It appears from the pleadings in that suit that there was
no claim on the part of the complainant that the maps referred to were maps of definite -location, buit that they were
merely maps- designating a general route; that the defendant
claimed that these maps did not have the effect of properly
locating the road under the act and giving title to the Atlantic and Pacific, not because they were not in fact maps of
definite location, were not filed or approved as such, were not
bona f#de maps at all, or because the contents of the certificates appended to the maps were false, but for the reasons
that they were filed in sections, and when all the sections
were filed showed a proposed route to San Francisco (which

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

9

Argument for Appellants.

was claimed to be a wholly unauthorized line) instead of a
line from the Needles, by the most practicabl6 and eligible
route to the Pacific, which the act contemplated and expressly prescribed. These were the points in respect to, the
maps, and the only points which were litigated and judicially
-determined in the case.
It distinctly appears that, under the issues framed in the
former actions, only questions of law were litigated and determined, and no issue of fact as to whether the Atlantic and
Pacific Company ever filed maps of definite location was
tried or actually litigated at all. Yet the real question of
fact now presented was not in any way before the court; and,
although all the questions of law involved in the former cases
are here involved, there .is also here in this action a new issue
of fact as to the character and bona .9des of the maps filed,
and 'a new question of law as to the effect of their character
or of their falsity.
It is quite true, as pointed out by this court in its opinion
in the- prior cases, that the purpose of the litigation by the
Government was to procure an adjustment and determination
of the extent of its grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, and, if it had included all the land covered by the
grant in the same suit, the adjudication would necessarily
have been final; If all the eggs had been put into one
basket, the company through undue confidence in the safety
of its position, or its slip in respect to ascertaining where the
real strain existed, might have lost all; but, as only a portion
were put at risk in the former cases, it is entitled to save the
rest. While, of course, the court did decide, upon the pleadings and evidence before it in those cases, that the lands were
lost to the Southern Pacific on account of the vesting of title
in the Atlantic and Pacific, it made such decision only as to
the lands which. were involved in that controversy. While
assuming (as it was entitled to do in that case) that a good and
sufficient map of definite location was filed by the Atlantic
-and Pacific Company; it is certainly demonstrable from the
record and the opinion that it did not hold it to be good
and sufficient against objections not then presented, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

which are now raised for the. first time upon wholly new
evidence.
The proposition that this court in the former actions in deciding that the title vested in the Atlantic and Pacific, and
under them in the complainant, necessarily decided every fact
and every question of law involved in the title, is true only in
respect to the title of the lands there in controversy; and, if
we are right in claiming that a suit for these lands is another
cause of action, the proposition has no relevancy here. Eastman v. Cooper, 15 Pick. 276; Sawyer v. Woodbury, 7 Gray,
499, 502; King v. Chase, 15 New Hampshire, 9.
(c) No estoppel by former judgment can arise until the former
judgment is pleaded, provided there is an opportunity to plead
it. The Government has not seen fit to plead any former
adjudication as an estoppel, although it had ample opportunity so to do in this cause. An estoppel by a former judgment must be pleaded, if there is an opportunity to plead it,
and the failure to plead it, if there is an opportunity to plead
it, waives the estoppel. Fanning v. HTihernia -zs. Co., 37
Ohio St. 344; Grey v. Pingry, 17 Vermont, 419, 44 Am.
Dec. 345; Blood v. Marcuse, 38 California, 590; Isaacs v.
Clark, 12 Vermont, 692, 36 Am. Dec. 372; Hanson v. Buckner, 4 Dana, 251; Glenn v. Priest,48 Fed. Rep. 19.
The same rule applies to estoppel by written contract.
Mabury v. Louisville & Jefersonville Ferry Co., 60 Fed. Rep.
645; Wood v. Austram, 29 Indiana, 177; Robbins v. .Magee,
76 Indiana, 381 ; Cole v.Lafontaine, 84 Indiana, 446; Stewart
v. Beck, 90 Indiana, 458.
It having been shown that a former judgment is not an
estoppel unless pleaded, provided there is an opportunity to
plead it, the question arises: Was 'there an opportunity, in
this case, to plead the former judgment?
Rule 45 of the Rules of Equity provides: "No special replication to any answer shall be filed. But if any matter alleged
in the answer shall make it necessary for the plaintiff to
amend his bill, he may have leave to amend the same with or
without the payment of costs, as the court or a judge thereof
may in his discretion direct."

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

11

Argument for Appellants.

The appellees here, plaintiffs below, availed themselves of
the provisions of :Rule 45 ; obtained leave of the court to, and
did, amend their bill September 25, 1891. The defendant's
answer to this amended bill, filed June 12, 1893, set up title
in them for these lands in virtue of its land grants from Congress; specially pleaded that the Atlantic and Pacific Company did not definitely locate its railroad in California, and
that the maps filed by it were fraudulent pretences; but the
plaintiffs did not, by amended bill, plead the former judgment,
as they might have done. There can be no doubt, therefore,
that, although the plaintiffs did not plead the former judgment, they had full opportunity to plead it.
The provisions of Section 101 of the Ohio code closely
resemble Rule 45 of the Rules of Equity. It provides, however, that the plaintiff may reply by answer to the new matter set up by the defendant, while Rule 45 provides that the
plaintiff may reply to such new matter by amendment of
the bill. In the case of -Fanningv. Ins. Co., 27 Ohio, 344, the
single question was submitted and determined whether the
plaintiff might introduce in evidence a former judgment between the same parties, upon the same demand and cause of
demand, the plaintiff having answered without pleading the
former judgment.- The court, in deciding the case, said:
"'The former adjudication is new matter, which the Code
Practice requires should be pleaded. It is matter ex.postfacto,
and should be specially pleaded, so that the court may, as
matter of law, determine as to its effect. This was the settled
rule. at common law whenever there was an opportunity to
plead such former adjudication. The code having furnished
that opportunity to plead it, we think the record was inadmissible as evidence.")
In the case of Wilson v. Stolley, 4 McLean, 275, the court
distinctly hhld that under Rule 45 the matter which at common law should be set up by replication must be set up by
amendment to the bill; and at page 277 said: "The 45th
rule of chancery practice declares that 'no special replication
to any answer shall be filed. But, if any matter alleged inthe answer shall make it necessary for the plaintiff to amend

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Argument for- Appellants.

his bill, he may have leave to amend the same.' As a special
replication is not allowed, the question of abandonment can
only be brought before the court by an amendment of the
bill."
The sense of all which is that, wheresoever the plaintiff was
formerly required to present matters by replication, he is now
required by Rule 45 to present such matters by amendment
to the bill; and, failing so to present suchmatters, he cannot
be heard in evidence as to them.
(d) Another rule well settled in respect to estoppel by
former judgment is that, if such estoppel exists, it may be
waived by the plaintiff's introduction of evidence as to the
truth of the matters claimed to have been decided in the
former case.
The plaintiff in this case has introduced proof of facts upon
which the former adjudication was determined. It therefore
cannot rely upon the judicial adjudication of the issue by way
of estoppel in the former cases.
The necessary legal effect of the estoppel is to preclude all
inquiry as to the truth of the matter determined, and when a
party who is entitled to set up an estoppel does open inquiry
into the truth of th6 matter, he cannot complain that the
other party pursues it without regard to the estoppel.
If the plaintiff lets down the bar of the estoppel, he must
permit the defendant to follow his lead into the field of evidence. Afegerle v. Ashe, 33 California, 74; Philadelphia,
Wilmington &a. Railroad v. Howard, 13 How. 307; .Mack
v. Levy, 60 Fed. Rep. 751.
And to the same effect will be found -the decision in the
case of Eilhefer v. -Herr, 17 Serg. & Rawle, 319, 17 Am.
Dec. 661.
The Circuit Court, in determining this case, ignored the
former decision, and upon the main issue found substantially
that the Atlantic and Pacific Company never did definitely
locate its railroad in California, and found the same maps
which were before the Supreme Court in the former case to
be fraudulent pretences, which amounted at most to but a
general designation of its contemplated route. Upon these

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

13

Argument for Appellants.

findings of facts, as will be shown later, the decree should
have been for appellants. And it follows that had the appellees relied on an estoppel the decree would have been against
them, because the court could not have reached the facts
without first finding against the estoppel. So, in either event,
whether the plaintiffs relied on the estoppel or on the truth
of the matters, the decree should have been against them.
This, it seems to us, fully disposes of the influence of the
former case upon this- considered as to each and every relationship which a former suit can sustain to a subsequent
suit.
II. The evidence contained in the record now before the
court conclusively shows that the basis of fact on which this
court rested its judgment in the former actions never existed,
and that in truth the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
never did definitely fix, or definitely locate, the line of its
road west of the Colorado River, and never filed a map of
definite location in California; that the maps which it did file
in 1872, showing th6 route of a proposed line opposite the
lands in controversy in this suit, were not maps of definite
location, but were at best only maps designating a general
route.
As a consequence, we insist with confidence that the grant
to the Atlantic and Pacific Company never did take effect;
never did attach to the lands in suit or to any other lands in
California; and that, therefore, in accordance with the principles laid down in the former decision, the lands passed to
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company under its grant upon
the construction of its road, and the filing of maps showing
its constructed line.
(a) There can be no question as to what the law requires
to constitute a definite location under a railroad laud grant,
which shall have*the effect of specifically locating the line of
the road from which the measurement of the alternate sections granted shall be made.
The object of the Government in making a land grant in
every case is to secure the building of the railroad as a public
object; the lands granted are in each case to be in alternate

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

sections immediately adjacent to the railroad as it shall finally
be constructed; and, until the precise line on which the railroad is to be built is definitely determined by the company
and communicated to the Government, the grant is a mere
float.
The route of the railroad is considered to be definitely fixed
when "the necessary determinative lines have been fixed on
the face of the earth," that is to say, when the company has
made its preliminary and final surveys, staked its line upon
the ground, and communicated to the Government, by filing
a map of the same, its final determination as to the precise
line upon which the road is to be built. It is only when this
has been done that the line of the road is definitely fixed.
-It is settled by ansas Paciji Railway v. .Dunmeyer, 113
U. S. 629, and Sioux City &c.Land Co. v. Griffey, 143 'U.
S.
32, that a definite location is the i'esult of an actual examination and survey of the route, and the fixing of determinative.
lines on the face of the earth ; locating it over the very
ground on which it is intended to build the railroad. The
term cannot be satisfied by a line drawn at random over the
face of the country, without regard to mountains or valleys,
or the other features' of topography by which the practicability of a route can be determined.
(b) The rule that land grants do not attach to any specific
lands at any time prior to the definite location of the line,
applies, in all its force, to the grant made to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company by the act of July 27, 1866; and
if, as we claim is clearly shown by the evidence in this case,
the Atlantic and Pacific road was never definitely located,
the grant to that company never vested or became attached
to any specific lands, but remained afloat until the passage of
the forfeiture act, which terminated its existence even as a
float.
(c) Considering it then as settled for all purposes of the
case that a bona fide map of definite location adopted by the'
company as its finally and definitely fixed line of road, from
which there would be no change without legislative consent,
was the essential and indispensable thing by which only the

SOUTHERN PAOIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

15

Argument for Appellants.

*

grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Company could attach to
the lands, if it could attach at all before actual construction,
we submit that it is conclusively established by the evidence
in this case that no such map ever existed or was filed, no
definite location was adopted by the company, and no such
definite location was approved by the Secretary of the Interior, and that therefore no title to the lands in dispute ever
vested in that company; but, coming within the terms of the
grant to the Southern Pacific, they became its property upon
the construction of its road and the filing of its maps of definite location-as the construction proceeded.
By the act of 1866 the Atlantic and Pacific was authorized
to construct a continuous railroad from Springfield, Missouri,
by the route laid down in the act, to the Colorado River, at
such point as might be selected by that company for crossing,
and thence by the most practical and eligible route to the
Pacific Ocean ; and by the same act the Southern Pacific was
authorized to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific road at
or near the boundary line of the State of California, and t6
build a railroad thence to San Francisco. Construing together
the language of the two authorizations given to the different
companies by the same act, the obvious intent and purpose
was that the Southern Pacific should build from the point of
junction to San Francisco. The Atlantic and Pacific should
do no such thing, but should build across westerly by the
most eligible route to the Pacific.
Assuming, however, that the Atlantic and Pacific was, by
the act of 1866, authorized to build from the Colorado River
to the Pacific Ocean over the lands in controversy (instead
of by the more natural route through Cajon Pass since
adopted in the interest of the Atchison Company, or the
more southerly route to San Diego), it had done nothing
towards building there, and indicated no purpose to build
there till a Year after the time when the Southern Pacific, on
the 3d of April, 1871, filed its map of general route, designating its line under the Texas Pacific act from Tehachapa
Pass, by way of Los Angeles, to Yuma, on the Colorado River,
the point at which it was intended that the Texas Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

should cross that river. In fact, up to that time the Atlantic
and Pacific had only built from 50 to 75 miles in the far
distant State of Missouri, and even that was sold out under
foreclosure to another company in 1876.
The line so designated by the Southern Pacific Company
passed through the lands now in controversy, and that company afterwards proceeded in good faith to construct its
railroad substantially on the general route so designated;
and, as the work proceeded, successive sections were duly
examined by commissioners appointed by the President and
their reports accepted by him.
The company entered into possession of the lands (so far as
there was any actual possession of. the lands), mortgaged and
sold them, and, as rapidly as the circumlocution of the Interior
Department would admit, received patents therefor.
Under the act of 1866, the Southern Pacific had also designated the general route of its road from the junction point
with the Atlantic and Pacific on the Colorado River to San
Francisco, all with the due approval of the Government; and,
although controversy arose in the Interior Department as to
whether the line designated by the Southern Pacific was
authorized by the state law, that matter was definitely settled by the action of Congress by the joint resolution of June
28, 1870, authorizing it expressly to construct its railroad on
the route indicated by its map of general route.
The Atlantic and Pacific gave no sign of any purpose of
building in California at all for three years and two months
after the passage of the act of 1866, by which the two companies had been authorized to build on their respective routes
from the Colorado' River westward. Then, finding that the
Southern Pacific had not only filed its map of general route
from the. boundary line to San Francisco, but -was engaged
in the actual and rapid construction of its road upon the line
so designated, it began its dog-in-tbe-manger policy, which,
from that time, it uniformly pursued in respect to the Southern
Pacific by filing the map of 1869, designating its general route
from the point of crossing on the Colorado River, not by the
most practicable and eligible route to the Pacific Ocean, but

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

17

Argument for Appellants.

straight upon the track of the Southern Pacific to San Fran.
cisco. The plat so filed showed the same line as that shown
upon the map of general route of the Southern Pacific, on
which the latter company had for two years been building.
That is to say, a line through the Tehachapa Pass running
east of Tulare Lake, and then across to the northward of the
lake, and running through the coast range of mountains to
San Francisco.
This map was duly certified by the president of the company as designating the line of the Atlantic and Pacific, and
upon it the company claimed the land grant along the line
accordingly.
Secretary Cox, with whom the map was filed, rejected it,
declaring that he could not recognize the claim of the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company to the reservation of lands
upon the route in question, because the act already cited, upon
which the company relied, did not, as he construed it, give
them a route, or make them a grant of lands, from the Colorado River to San Francisco at all.
So matters stood for two years and a half more, the
Southern Pacific vigorously prosecuting the work of building; the Atlantic and Pacific neither doing anything in the
way of building, nor manifesting any intention of building, westward from the Colorado River in either direction;
either to San Francisco or by the most practicable route to
the Pacific.
(d) And now we come to the facts in respect .to the maps of
1872, which do involve the lands in controversy, and the court
will perceive that it was but another step in the same dog-inthe-manger policy of the Atlantic and Pacific.
By this time it was pretty clear that the Atlantic and
Pacific would never build in California, but it hoped to defeat
the Southern Pacific, which was building on the line designated for it by the act of 1871. It now for the first time
designated a route, which was far remote and wholly distinct
from its route of 1869.
Starting from the Needles, the point of junction, at the
crossing of the Colorado River, it ran westerly to San BuenaVOL. cLxVm-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

ventura on the coast, and thence by a route west of the coast
range of mountains to San Francisco.
We claim in this suit that this route of 1872 was an unauthorized route, and that it was never adopted as a definite
location of the Atlantic and Pacific so as to vest in the company title to any specific lands.
Assuming that the point that it was an unauthorized
route in toto, and in all its parts, because it proceeded
from the junction point to San Francisco (the route which
had been expressly reserved for the Southern Pacific), has
been settled adversely to our claim by the previous decision of the court in 146 U. S., we come to the proofs which
demonstrate that the line shown upon the 1872 maps was
never adopted as the definite location .of the Atlantic and
Pacific.
The maps running from the western boundary of Missouri to the eastern boundary of California' are all maps
which, so far as the maps themselves are concerned, are of
the character of maps of definite 16cation; but the first or
most easterly of these maps is, the only one which was tendered by the company as a map of definite location. The
map from the Missouri state line to the mouth of Kingfisher
Creek was tendered-and received as a map of definite location; but, after this map was so tendered and filed, the subject whether the maps should be tendered as maps 'merely
designating the line of the road or as maps of definite location
obviously received careful consideration from the company
and its counsel, and it was determined that they should thereafter be tendered merely as maps of designation of line, and
this was done. The obvious purpose of this method of characterizing the maps was to secure withdrawal without committing itself to definite location, and thus leave open the
opportunity for a subsequent change of route as between the
company and the Government.
Coming to the map on which the present controversy
mainly turns, it appears that, it was not presented by the
company to the Interior Department at all as a map of definite location by which the company intended to be forever

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 19
Argument for Appellants.

bound and from which it could not change without legislative
consent, but merely as a map of designation of route.
We submit, therefore, as to the characterization of the map
by the company in presenting it to the Secretary, that it was
presented, not as a map of definite location, but purposely and
in pursuance of a settled policy as a map of general route and
nothing else.
This mode of designation obviously left it open to the
company afterwards to claim the right to diverge from the
route designated, and carry a divergence of the land grant
with it.
Again, thd character of the map itself must be looked to as
an important element in determining whether, by its filing, it
could secure the attachment of the grant to the lands, and
vest the title in the company by relation as of the date of the
act, and, therefore, the actual facts as proved in respect to
this particular map are of the utmost importance for the consideration of the court.
This map is characterized by the company itself in transmitting it to the Department as a map designating the line or
route of the railroad over the lands in question.
It partakes upon its face in no sense or manner of the character of a map of definite location. It neither shows the
topography of the country nor the relation of the proposed
railroad to any of the features of topography, nor to the
natural objects along the line of route.
It is upon its face merely a map of general route, showing
a general route somewhere nearly on the course of which a
road might be thereafter definitely located and constructed,
and it served none of the purposes of a map of definite location, for no man could follow it with map in hand and discover where the road would be built; and the line itself,
indicated by the route applied to the earth's surface, shows a
line running recklessly over hills and mountain tops, regardless of topography, and one not possible for any engineers or
responsible officers of railroad companies to have attempted
to adopt as a line of definite location.
Compared with the maps of definite location previously

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

presented by the company, it appears at once to be a wholly
different thing.
No resolution of the company, no certificate of its engineer,
could convert such a map from what it is into a map of definite location, and, as Mr. Hillyer's letter shows, it was actually tendered by the company to the Government, not as a
map of definite location, but as a map of general route. By
a clerical error, misled, perhaps, by the certificate of the
engineer appended to this map, as this court was misled on
the former hearing, the Secretary, in acknowledging the
receipt of it (or the Secretary's clerk in drafting the letter for
the Secretary to sign acknowledging the receipt of it), by such
clerical error referred to it as a map of definite location. This
clerical error, as has clearly been shown,-vas corrected in the.
Secretary's office, probably upon the suggestion of the attorney of the company, made after his receipt of the erroneous letter; but, as a similar letter referring to it as a map of
definite location was sent by him to the Commissioner of the
Land Office, that officer, perhaps, proceeded, before the clerical error was corrected in the letter to him upon the subject,
to communicate it to his subordinate officials as a map of
definite location.
It was impossible that the company or its engineers, or its
attorneys, could have intended to commit the company irretrievably to the particular location of its line or road indicated
on the map.
As between the Secretary of the Interior and the company
they were'unquestionably regarded and treated as maps of
general route, and not of definite location, and the subsequent
correspondence between the company and the Secretary of
the Interior proceeded upon the same view.
The character or quality of the maps as tendered by the
company and received by the Secretary as maps of general
routes are unequivocally shown by the letter of Hillyer of
March 8, 1872, tendering them, and the letter of the Secretary
of the 9th of March acknowledging its receipt in the form
in which that letter was finally framed in the Department,
agreeing with the letter of Hillyer tendering them. In the

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILRD v. UNITED STATES.

21

Argument for Appellants.

former case in this court the map was assumed to be a map of
definite location from the false certificate thereon, and from.
the uncorrected copy of the Secretary's letter of March 9,
which was in evidence, and the references in the subordinate
branches of the Land Office to the map as being a map of
definite location, which was due to the failure to completely
correct the error in all the copies of the letter referred to.
But since the decision in the former case a great mass of
additional evidence in respect to Map No. 31 has been taken,
which demonstrates it to have been in fact, as it was-presented
and received, and as it appears upon its face to be, not a map
of definite lcation at all, but at best only a map of general
route and even in that character can hardly be treated as filed
in good faith; for if, as this court in the Northkern PaCificea8e,
119 U. S. 55, insisted they ought to do, the officers of the
Land Department had "exercised supervision of the matter so
as to require good faith on the part of the company in designating the general route, and not to accept an arbitrary and
capricious selection of the line, irrespective of the character of
the country through which the road is to be constructed," this
Map No. 31 would necessarily have been rejected; for, if not
fraudulent, it is certainly nothing more than an arbitrary and
capricious selection of a line irrespective of the character of
the country over which the road was to be constructed.
The War Department itself has issued an authentic topographical map which includes a considerable portion of California, covered by the lines shown on Map 3.1, and, as the
record shows, the line shown upon this Atlantic and Pacific
Map 31 has been laid down in red upon the Government
topographical map, especially in the vicinity of the Soledad
Calion, with the result of demonstrating beyond all doubt,
or possibility of doubt, that the route shown on Map 31 does
not follow the valley at all, but zigzags across it into hills
and mountains where no railroad could possibly, be built.
It affords a mathematical demonstration that this route
never could have been laid down or designed, or tendered
or received, as anything but a map of general route.
But further than this, before the existence of this Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellants.

ment topographical map was known by the defendants, the
chief engineer of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
took. Map No.31, and followed it on the ground in the vicinity of the Soledad Cafion, and ran his levels to show the
vertical position of the points on the line in reference to the
sea level. The result of this scientific examination showed
that to build a railroad on the line would be impossible for
any practical purpose, and that no railroad engineer could
have made such a survey for it.
It further appears by the same evidence that the few towns,
villages or places purporting to be named on this Atlantic and
Pacific map are out of their proper positions- both in latitude and longitude-and not slightly out, but miles and
.miles out, and all attempts to adapt or.shift the map, so as
to bring one place into proper position, threw all other places
all the more out of position.
It neither followed elevations nor depressions, nor rivers,
nor plains, b 1 t jumped at random from hill top to mountain
top and across valleys.
It necessitated grades wholly impossible in engineering,
and in some instances from one quarter to fully one half a
mile to the mile, or ten times as steep a grade as is known
in use for the ordinary steam locomotive.
The court upon an examination of these proofs cannot
but conclude that no competent engineer or honest company
could have laid out or adopted this line as a line of definite
location.
III. The point upon which the Circuit Court of Appeals
based its judgment in favor of the Government is wholly
untenable and inapplicable. It is as follows: "Assuming,
however, that a survey of a line on the ground is required
and that a fraudulent deception was practised upon the Government by the representation that a survey had been made,
this is ground upon which the Department might properly
reconsider its acceptanc e and approval of the maps filed; but
until such reconsideration the status of the lands is fixed by
what was done. The approved maps operated to identify
these lands as within the'grant to the Atlantic and Pacific

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 2;
Argument for Appellants.

Company without reference to the good faith of the company
in preparing them.
"The fact of definite location is settled by the maps, and
it is the fact, not the means by which it was procured, that
decides a question."
On the contrary, we submit with confidence that we have
already demonstrated that the fact of definite location was
not settled by the maps, and that inasmuch as the subsequent
grant to the Southern Pacific embraced the same lands, and
the lands in question could, as this court has held, only be
excepted or cut out from that grant by a definite location on
the part of the Atlantic and Pacific which alone could attach
its grant to the lands, nevertheless, until such definite location was actually and honestly made in good faith, there was
no such exception from the grant to the Southern Pacific;
and, as no such definite location ever was made by the
Atlantic and Pacific, there never was any such exception
from the grant to the Southern Pacific.
This view of the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeds upon
the assumptions (which are absolutely incorrect) that the
Atlantic and Pacific maps were on their face, and that they
were accepted by the Interior Department as, maps of definite location, and utterly fails to appreciate the point of our
contention.
The court below likens the position of the Southern Pacific
in this case to that of an infringer seeking collaterally to
avoid a patent by proving that it was procured by fraud from
the Government, and relies upon the well-known authorities
which prohibit all such attempts upon the ground that fraud,
if it existed in such a case, could only be taken advantage of
by.the Government.
But the very gist of our case, under the former decision of
this court in 146 U. S., is that, if the Atlantic and Pacific did
not in fact secure these lands by a definite location embracing
them, they came to us under our grant, so that, for the very
reasons stated in the patent cases referred to, we are here entitled to take advantage of the failure of the Atlantic and
Pacific to establish its definite location, and would even have

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

been so entitled if we had notmade out a case of fraud in procuring a map which on its face was not a map of definite location to be accepted as such.
The point so strenuously contended for below by the learned
counsel for the Government, but which was not accepted by
either of the courts below, that, even though no map of definite location was filed and no route adopted or definitely fixed
by the Atlantic and' Pacific Railroad Company, any proceedings in the department which assumed that there had been
such a map filed are final and conclusive to defeat our rights,
has no foundation in law or justice or sense, and there is no
authority to support such a proposition as applied to the present case.
21r. Joseph H. Cal and
'. Assistant Attorney General
Dikinson for appellees.
Mp. JusTicE HARLAx

delivered the opinion-of the court.

This suit was brought to obtain a decree quieting the title
of the United States to a large body of lands in California,
acquired under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
These lands, it is stated by counsel, aggregate about 700,000
acres, 61,939 acres of which have heretofore been patented to
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, and for 72,000 acres
of which that company has made application for patents.
They are thus described in the bill filed by the United States:
All the sections of land designated by odd numbers in townships 3 and 4 north, ranges 5, 6 and 7 west; township 1 north,
ranges 16, 17 and 18 west; township 6 and the south three
fourths of township 7 north, ranges 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18 and 19 west; all sections designated by Qdd numbers as
shown by. the public surveys, embraced within the townships
from number 2 north to number 5 north, both numbers included, and ranges from number 8 west to number 18 west,
both numbers included, except sections 23 and 35, in township 4 north, range 15 west, and except sections 1, 11 and
13, in township 3 north, range 15 west; also the unsurveyed
lands within said area which will be designated as odd-num-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UIITED STATES. 25
Opinion of the Court.

bered sections when the public surveys according to the laws
of the United States shall have been extended over such townships- all of the aforesaid lands being surveyed by San Bernardino base and meridian.
.The Government suggests that the greater portion of these
lands have been set apart under authority of the act of Congress of March 3, 1891, c. 561,  24, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103, and
by the proclamation of the President of the United States of
December 20, 1892, 27 Stat. 1049, as a public reservation.
The principal contention of the United States is that the
lands in dispute are in the same category in every respect
with those in controversy in United States v. Southern Paific
Railroad,446 U. S. 570, and United States v. Colton .farble
and Lime Co. and United States v. Southern Pacftc Railroad,
146 U. S. 615 ; and that, so far as the question of title is concerned, the judgments in those cases have conclusively determined, as between the United States and the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company and its privies, the essential facts
upon which the Government rests its present claim.
Stated in another form, the United States insists that in the
former cases the controlling matter in issue was, whether certain maps filed by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
in 1872, and which were accepted by the Land Department,
as sufficiently designating that company's line of road under
the act of Congress of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, were
valid maps of definite location.; the United States contending
in those cases that they were, and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company contending that they were not, maps of that
character; that that issue was determined in favor of the
United States; and that as the lands now in dispute are
within the limits of the line of road. so designated, it is not
open to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, in this proceeding, to question the former determination that such maps
sufficiently identified the lands granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company by the act of 1866, and were therefore valid maps of definite location.
This position of the Government makes it necessary to
ascertain what was in issue and what was determined in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

former cases. Did the former adjudication have the scope
attributed to it by the United States?

If it did, the decision

of the present case will not be difficult.
It is necessary to a clear understanding of the question just
stated, that we should first look at the provisions of the several acts of Congress relating to the Atlantic and Pacific and
Southern Pacific Railroad Companies, which were referred to
and construed in the former cases.
The Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated by the act of Congress approved July 27, 1866, c. 278,
14 Stat. 292, with authority to construct and maintain a line
of railroad and telegraph from a point at or near Springfield,
Missouri, to the western boundary line of that State, thence
by the most eligible railroad route, to be determined by the
company, to the Canadian River, thence to Albuquerque on
the River Del Norte, thence by way of Agua Frio or other
suitable pass to the headwaters of the Colorado Chiquito,
thence along the thirty-fifth parallel 6f latitude, as near as
might be found most suitable for a railroad route, to the Colorado River at such point as might be selected by the company
for crossing, and "thence by the most-practicable and eligible
route to the Pacific." ' 1. In the aid of the construction of
that line Congress granted every odd-numbered section of
public land (not mineral) to the amount of twenty alternate
sections per mile on each side of such line-as the company
might adopt through any Territory of the United States, and
ten alternate sections per mile on each side of the line through
any State, to which the United States had full title, and not
reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free
from preemption or other claims ar rights, "at the time the
line of said road is designated by caplat thereof filed in the
office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office."  3.
Section 4 made provision for patents to be issued to the
company for lands opposite to and coterminous with each
section of twenty-five miles of road, completed in a good, substantial and workmanlike manner.
It was also provided that the President of the United States
should cause the lands to be surveyed for forty miles in width

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 27
Opinion of the Court.

on both sides of the entire line after the general route was
fixed, and as fast as the construction of the railroad required;
that the grants, rights and privileges specified in the act of
Congress were given and accepted subject to the conditions
that the company would commence work within two years
from the approval of the act, complete not less than fifty
miles per year after the second year; construct, equip, furnish
and complete its main line by July 4, 1878; and if the company made any breach of the conditions imposed, and allowed
the same to continue for upwards of one year, then, at any
time thereafter, the United States could do any and all acts
and things needful and necessary to insure a speedy completion of the road.  6, 8, 9.
By the eighteenth section of the act the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, a California corporation, was authorized
to connect with the Atlantic and .Pacific Railroad at such
point, near the boundary line of the State, as it deemed most
suitable.for a railroad line to San Francisco; and to have a
uniform gauge and rate of freight or fare with that road; and
in consideration thereof, to aid in its construction, "shall have
similar grants of land, subject to all the conditions and limitations herein provided, and shall be required to construct its
road on the like regulations, as to time and manner, with the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad herein provided for."
The twentieth section provided, that the better to accomplish the object of the act, "namely, to promote the public
interest and welfare by the construction of said railroad and
telegraph line, and keeping the same in working order, and
to secure to the Government at all times, but particularly in
time of war, the use and benefits of the same for postal, military and other purposes, Congress may, at any time, having
due regard to the rights of said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company, add to, alter, amend or repeal this act."
The legislature of California by an act approved April
4, 1870, authorized the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
to change the line of its road so as to reach the eastern boundary of the State by such route as the company should determine to be the most practicable. And by joint resolution passed

OCTOBER TERM, 189T.
Opinion of the Court.

June 28, 1870, Congress declared that that company might
construct its road and telegraph line, as near as might'be, on
the route indicated by the map filed by that company in the
Department of the Interior on the 3d day of January, 1867,
and "upon the construction of each section of said road, in
the manner and within the time provided by law, arid notice
thereof being given by the company to the Secretary of the
Interior, he shall direct an examination of each such section
by commissioners to be appointed by the President, as provided in the act making a grant of land to said company,
approved July 27, 1866, and upon the report of the commissioners to the Secretary of the Interior that such section of
said railroad and telegraph line has been constructed as required by law, it shall be the duty of the said Secretary of
the Interior to cause patents to be issued to said company for
the sections of land coterminous to each constructed section
reported on as aforesaid, to the extent and amount granted
to said company by the said act of July 27, 1866, expressly
saving and reserving all the rights of actual settlers, together
with the other conditions and restrictions provided for in the
third section of said act," 16 Stat. 382.
By an act approved March 3, 1871, c. 122, Congress incorporated the Texas Pacific Railroad Company and made to it
a grant of public lands. And by the 23d section of that act
it was provided: "That for the purpose of connecting the
Texas Pacific Railroad with the city of San Francisco, the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California is hereby
authorized (subject to the laws of California) to construct a
line of railroad from a point at or near Tehachapa Pass, by way
of Los Angeles, to the Texas Pacific Railroad at or near the
Colorado River, with the same rights, grants and privileges,
and subject to the same limitations, restrictions and conditions as were granted to said Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California by the act of July twenty-seven, eighteen
hundred and sixty~six: Provided,kowever, That this section
shall in no way affect or impair the rights, present or prospective, of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company or any
other railroad company." 16 Stat. 573, 579.

SOUTHERNT PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

29

Opinion of the Court.

The Southern Pacific Railroad Company constructed the
road thus contemplated, and claims that the lands here in dispute passed to it under the above act of 1871.
The Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company built part of
its road east of Colorido River, but did not construct any line
west of that river or in California.
"n consequence of such failure, Congress, by the act of
July 6, 1886, c. 637, 24 Stat. 123, provided "that all the
lands, excepting the right of way and the right, power and
authority given to said corporation to take from the public
lands adjacent -to the line of said road- material of earth,
stone, timber and so forth, for the construction thereof, including all necessary grounds for station buildiigs, workshops, depots, machine shops, switches, side tracks, turn-tables
and water stations, heretofore granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company by an act of Congress entitled,
An act granting lands to aid in the construction of railroad
and telegraph lines from the States of Missouri and Arkansas
to the Pacific coast,' approved July 27, 1866, and subsequent
acts and joint resolutions of Congress, which are adjacent to
and coterminous with the uncompleted portions of the main
line of said road, embraced within both the granted and the
indemnity limits, as contemplated to be constructed under
and by the provisions of the said act of July 27, 1866, and
acts and joint resolutions subsequent thereto and relating to
the construction of said road and telegraph, be, and the same
are hereby, declared forfeited and restored to the public
domaiA."
In execution of that act the United States, in 1889, commenced suits in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of California for the purpose of quieting its
title to various tracts of land, aggregating about 5342 acres,
and claimed by the Southern Pacific Railroad Company and
by other corporations and individuals asserting title under
that company. In one of those suits, the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, and D. 0. Mills and Garrett L. Lansing,
trustees under a mortgage executed by that company on the
1st day of April, 1875, and Joseph Youngblood were made

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants; in the other, the same company and trustees,
together with the City Brick Company, Thomas Goss, Edward Simmons and A. A. Hubbard, were defendants.
These are the cases reported in 146 U. S. 570, 615.
The issues presented by the Government in the former
suits are fully shown by an amended bill filed therein November 22, 1889. After referring to the organization of the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company, and to the act of Congress of July 27, 1866, it proceeds: "Your orator alleges that
by and pursuant to said act .of Congress, the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company was created and duly organized,
and on November 23, 1866, within the time and in the manner provided in said act, accepted said grant, and did designate the line of its route from Springfield, Missouri, to the
Pacific by maps and plates thereof, which it filed in the office
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office in manner
following, to wit: On or about March 9, 1872, said company
filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office maps designating the line of its route, and showing the
general features of the country and vicinity, as follows:
First -From
San Francisco to San Miguel Mission, in California. Second -Map of its route from San Miguel Mission
via Santa Barbara and San Buenaventura, to a point in township 2 south, range 17 west, San Bernardino base and meridian, in California. Third -Map of its route from said point
last mentioned to a point in township 7 north, range 7 east,
San Bernardino base and meridian, in California. FourthMap of its route from said point last named to the Colorado
River. And thereafter, on or about March, 1 872, said company filed in said office as aforesaid its several other maps,
designating its route from said point last named to Springfield in the State of Missouri, making altogether a continuous
line designating its entire route, and showing the general
features of the country from said town of Springfield, Missouri, by way of the points named in said act of Congress of
July 27, 1866, to the Pacific at San Buenaventura, and from
there to San Francisco, and in the manner provided in said
act, and such designati6n was accepted by the United States.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

31

Opinion of the Court.

Your orator alleges that said several _Parts of its mapi, filed as
aforesaid,made and constituted the entire route or line of said
Atlantic and Pac*fic Railroad Company, fully designating
the whole thereof."
It was further averred that "on March 9, 1872, and on April
22, 1872, the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, respectively, ordered all the odd
sections of land within thirty miles on each side of said designated route of said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
reserved from sale and withdrawn"; that said Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company did construct and complete a portion of its road west of Springfield, Missouri, in the time and
manner required by said act, but did not at any time construct
or complete any railroad west of the Colorado River; and
that by the act of Congress approved Suly 6, 1886, "all the
lands and rights to lands theretofore granted and conferred
upon said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company were forfeited, resumed and restored to entry for non-completion of
that portion of said railroad to have been constructed in
California."
After alleging that the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
was not the company of that name organized under certain
articles of amalgamation and consolidation, dated October 11,
1870, and amended April 11, 1871, but was the now existing
company of that name, and after setting out the 23d section
of the act of Congress of March 3, 1871, c. 122, incorporating the Texas and Pacific Railroad Company, 16 Stat. 573,
and granting lands to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company for the line therein described, the amended bill in the
former suits proceeded: "Said Southern Pacific Railroad Company, the corporation which existed on April 3, 1871, as heretofore shown, pretended to accept said grant on April 3, 1871,
and did on that day designate the line of its road by a plat
thereof, which it filed in the office of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and thereupon the Secretary of the Interior ordered all the public lands in odd sections within thirty
miles of such route, to which no right or claim had attached,
to be withdrawn from market and reserved. And your orator

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

alleges that the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, which
was organized anfd created on August 12, 1873, by the pretended articles of amalgamation and consolidation of said several railroad companies as heretofore set forth, did construct
and complete a railroad from Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los
Angeles to the Colorado River, in the manner and within the
time prescribed in said act of Congress, in which the Southern.
-Pacific Railroad Company therein named was authorized and
empowered to do. And thereafter the commissioners appointed under said act for that purpose did unlawfully make
and file their alleged acceptance of the whole of said railroad
by sections. And there was not, and is not now, any railroad
or part thereof constructed or completed under said act or
between said points otherwise than as aforesaid."
It was also alleged that "on the south side of said route of
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company within 30 miles,
of said route, but also within 20 miles of the pretended designated route of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, there
was not on July 27, 1866, nor on March 12, 1872, nor on April
3, 1871, and is not now, enough public land in the. odd sections
to equal in amount ten alternate sections per mile of the line
of road of said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, within
such limits, for that prior to said date of July 27, 1866, the
Mexican Government and the United States had sold, granted,
reserved and otherwise disposed of so great a quantity of land
in those limits;" also, that "all of the said lands before described are situated on the south side of the said designated
route of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company more
than 20 miles but less than 30 miles therefrom, but are less
than 20 miles from the said pretended designated' route of
said Southern Pacific Railroad Company."
The amended bill concludes by alleging that the defendants
and either of them have no title or interest in or to the lands
described, "for that said pretended patents under which defendants solely claim title were issued inadvertently, without
authority, and were at their inception, and still are, each
void and inoperative to pass title, and that said lands were
never granted to said Southern 'Pacific Railroad Company,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 33
Opinion of the Court.

defendant herein, but are still owned by the plaintiff"; and
that the Secretary of the Interior, on the 16th day of August,
1887, on behalf of the Government, and in accordance with
law, demanded of said .company the relinquishment of its
claim to all of the lands described in such patents, and a return of the patents, all of which that company refused to do.
The relief asked was a decree cancelling the patents issued
to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, quieting tfie title
of the Government to the lands described therein, and enjoining that company from asserting or claiming any right or
title thereto adversely to the United States.
The answer of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
filed in the former suits December 30, 1889, shows its understanding as to what were the issues tendered by the Government. From that answer these extracts are made:
"The defendant admits that by and under said last mentioned act of Congress, [July 27, 1866,] the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company was created and organized, and did
duly accept the provisions of the said law within the time and
in the manner provided in said act, but it denies that said
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company did designate the line
of its route from Springfield, in the State of ilissouri,to the
Pacifc coast, as reygired by said act.
"This defendant denies that on the 9th of March, 18-72, or
at or about aiy such time, the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office maps designating the line of its route, or
otherwise in accordance with the law, and' denies that on or
about the 9th of March, 1872, aid Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company filed four maps in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, as stated in said bill. Said
company filed two maps and claimed that they were filed for
the purpose of locating parts or fragments of a line for its
road in the State of,California, but the defendant denies that
said maps constituted a valid location of said road in California. Certified copies of said maps are annexed to the
answer heretofore filed in this suit by this defendant and
marked 'Exhibit A, Nos. 1 and 2,' which, with the indorseVoXL. CLXVY-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ments thereon, are now herein referred to and made part of
this answer; and this defendant says that said railroad was
not located or attempted to be located on or about March 9,
1812, or at any such time, in California, either in whole or in
part, otherwise than as aforesaid by said maps. This defend-.
ant denies that the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company by
or through the filing of said maps, acguired the right -to any
lands of the United States lying offosite to the lines or route
marked on said maps, and denies that said company acquired
the right to select any public lands along said routes or lines
as ' other lands ' in lieu of sections within twenty miles that
had been granted, sold, ' reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted or otherwise disposed of' by the United
States. These maps were sent to the General Land Office
by the Secretary of the Interior ,with a letter dated March
9, 1872, of which a ceftified copy is annexed to said answer
heretofore filed, marked 'Exhibit B.'
"This defendant says that the. lands mentioned in the
amended bill herein lie opposite to the line of route marked
on the said map, designated in said letter as No. 2 of a portion of the proposed road of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, that is, a piece of road within the State of
California, 'from a point on the western boundary line of
Los Angeles County, California, to a point in township seven
north, range seven east, of San Bernardino meridian in said
State.' Neither when filed in March, 1872, nor at any such
time, did it appear that said map represented any part of a
line that was, or was intended to be conjoined to any other
part located before that time for the Atlantic.and Pacific
Railroad.
' "Further answering, this defendant says that the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company afterwards, viz., on the 13th
day of August, 1872, filed in the Department of the Interior
two other maps which it claimed were intended to designate
the line of other -fragments or .portions of its railroad in California. Certified copies of said maps and of the letter of the
Secretary of the Interior of April 16, 1874, in respect thereto,
are annexed to the answer filed heretofore in this suit by

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILRD v. UNITED STATES. 35
Opinion of the Court.

this defendant, marked 'Exhibit 0, Nos. 1 and 2,' and are
now herein referred to and made part of this answer. And
this defendant denies that said maps constituted a valid location of the parts or fractions of road therein described, and
denies that the four maes hereinbefore mentioned of four
several .parts of the road constituted a valid location of the
said Atlantic and Pacifio Railroad in California. And it
denies that the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad was ever
in any otherwise lawfully located in the State of California.
.. And the defendant says that there is nothing in or
'apon said maps to identify the same as the line of road mentioned in the said act of Congress."
After referring to the eighteenth section of the act of July
27, 1866, and alleging that the construction of a railroad from
the Colorado River to San Francisco was "expressly relegated
and appropriated to this defendant," and that the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company was never authorized to construct any such line of railroad, or to acquire any lands by
reason of or in respect of the construction or proposed construction of any such line, the answer of the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company denied that "on or about March, 1872, the
Atlantic and Pacific Company filed in the office of the Com.missioner of the General -Land Office maps designating its
route from the Colorado River to Springfield, in the State
of Missouri," or that "said maps made altogether the line of
railroad from Springfield, in the State of Missouri, to the
Pacific coast, which was provided for and required by said
act of Congress of July 27, 1866, to be constructed and completed by the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad. Company,"
or "that the several parts of its map filed made and constituted the whole of its line as provided for in said act of Congress"; that the parts of its map, "when taken together,
showed a line terminating at San Francisco, which was not
the terminus provided for by said act of Congress." The
answer also denied that on March 9, 1872, and April 22, 1872,
or at any such times, the Secretary of the Interior and the
Commissioner of the General Land Office ordered all the odd
sections of land within thirty miles on each side of the desig.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

nated route of the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company reserved from sale and withdrawn; that about April 22,
1872, the .Commissioner of the General Land Office ordered
lands withdrawn for thirty miles on each side of the parts of
lines of route attempted to be located March 9, 1872, by the
two maps hereinbefore mentioned as filed Maroh 9, 1872, his
orders being addressed to the register and receiver of the
United States land office at San Bernardino, Los Angeles and
Visalia, and were substantially as shown by the certified copy
of the Commissioner's letter of said date to the officers at Los
Angeles; but the defendant denied that the orders of April
22, 1872, had any effect whatever upon its rights and grants,
and were intended only to take effect upon public lands not
reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated at the time
of filing said maps, March 9, 1872.
The defendant averred that "the lands. involved in this suit
had previously, on the 3d April, 1871, by the filing of the
map of definite location of the defendant's railroad, been duly
reserved from sale by and under the said 23d section of the
act of Congress of March 3, 1871, and the 6th section of the act
of Congress of July 27, 1866, which said- sections are quoted
in the bill of complaint herein, and avers also that said lands
had been duly withdrawn from market and appropriated for
the use of this defendant by the order of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office to the register. and receiver of the
U. S. land office at Los Angeles, issued April 21, 1871, a copy
of which is hereto annexed, marked IR,' and made a part of
this answer."
Admitting that the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
did construct and' complete a portion of its road west of
Springfield, Missouri, in the time and manner required by
said act, but averring that that company did not at any time
construct or complete any railroad west of the Colorado
River, the defendant averred that "on the 3d April, 1871, it
designated the line of its said railroad, as described in said
section 23, by a map thereof, filed in the office of the Commissioner, of the General Land Office, and thereupon the said
Commissioner ordered all the public lands in odd sections

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 37
Opinion of the Court.

within thirty miles of such route to be withdrawn from
market. Certified copy of the map filed by this defendant in
the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office is
annexed to the answer heretofore fried by this defendant,
marked 'Exhibit D,' and the same is now referred to and
made part of this answer" ; that "it is the same railroad company that constructed the railroad provided for in the 23d
section of said act of Congress of March 3, 1871, and that it
fully constructed and completed its road according to said act,
and the construction thereof has been accepted and approved
by the President of the United States, construction of the last
mile of said road having been accepted by President Hayes
on the 23d of January, 1878."
The Southern Pacific Railroad Company admitted in its
answer that the line which the Atlantic and Pacific Company
claimed to have located in California "crosses the line of the
Southern Pacific Railroad located under the act of .MarcA 3,
1871," but alleged "that under and by virtue of said act of
March 3, 1871, and the map of location filed on the 3d day of
April, 1871, the lands described in said patent were reserved
for and appropriated to -this defendant, whose title thereto
has become perfect and complete by the construction of its
road as prescribed in said act," and that "the said Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Corpany's pretended line was not
located until subsequent to the year 1871; that when sought
or pretended to be located, it was found to be on a wholly
unauthorized route, not prescribed or permitted under any
act of Congress in relation to or affecting said Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company."
The answer of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, in
the former cases, also contained these paragraphs:
"This defendant admits that on the south side of the pretended location of the Atlantic and Pacific road, and within
30 miles thereof, but also within 20 miles of the location of
the Southern Pacific Railroad, there was not on April 3, 1871,
and is not now, enough public lands in the odd sections to
equal ten alternate sections per mile on each side of the pretended location of the line of the said Atlantic and Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Company within such limits, and this defendant
admits that the above described tracts of land are situated
more than 20 miles and less than 30 miles from the line of
the pretended location -of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad,
and less than 20 miles from the said located line of the Southern Pacific Railroad.
"This defendant avers that said tracts of land have been
granted, by the 23d section of the act of March 3, 1871, to it,
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company.
"This defendant admits that, under date of March 29, 1876,
April 4, 1879, and December 27, 1883, the patents were issued
to this defendant for the lands hereinabove described, but
denies that .such patents were issued inadvertently or
without authority. On the contrary, this defendant avers
that said patents were issued with due deliberation and in
strict conformity with the law, and that the signatures of the
President of the United States and the Recorder of the General Land Office thereto were affixed fairly and properly and
under the authority of law. This defendant here refers to
the Exhibit 1, Nos. 1 and 2, annexed to its answer heretofore
filed, and makes the same part of this answer.
"When the grant of lands was made to this defendant,
March 3, 1871, and its grant was located, April 3, 1871, all
the lands involved in this case were public lands of the United
States."
To this answer a general replication was filed.
The pleadings in the former suits show that the Government based its claim to relief upon certain grounds that were
distinctly controverted by the Southeri Pacific Railroad Company. Those grounds were:
That the grant by Congress of public lands to the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company was before the grant to the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company;
That when the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company designated its line by a plat thereof filed in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, as required by
Congress, it acquired an inchoate title to the lands granted,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 39
Opinion of the Court.

that is, a right to earn them and to obtain a complete title by
construction of its road;
That the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, by certain maps and plats filed in the office of the Commissioner of
the General Laild Office in 1872 and fully identified both in
the bill and answer -which maps were accepted by the Interior Department as adequate aild valid- sufficiently designated, as required by the act of 1866, an entire line from San
Francisco via San Miguel Mission, Santa Barbara, San Buenaventura and the Colorado River to Springfield, Missouri, so
as to become 'entitled, as of the date of the grant of July
27, 1P66, to earn the lands appertaining to the line so designated;
That the lands then in controversy appertained to the line
of road, and were within the exterior lines of the route, so
designated, were among the lands granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company, and in consequence of such designation were withdrawn by the Secretary of the Interior from
sale or preemption for the benefit of that company; and,
That the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company having
failed to meet the conditions of the grant by constructing
its road in California, the lands to which it had acquired an
inchoate title by means of the accepted map designating its
line, were "restored to the public domain," under the above
act of July 6, 1886, c. 637, 24: Stat. 123, and were not left,
upon such statutory forfeiture, to be earned by the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company under the junior grant.
The Southern Pacific Railroad Company controverted the
material allegations of the Government's bill and amended
bill, and made defence upon these among other grounds:
That the only designation of a line or route ever made by the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company was one of an entire
line from Springfield to San Francisco, and that it had no
authority to establish, designate or locate any such extended
line;
That the maps of 1872 filed by the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company, which were referred *to in the bill, and
also madeyartM of Mhe ompansy's answer, were not .suficient

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to identify any 8peci4fc lands west of the Colorado River;
were not, therefore, maps of definite location; and that that
company never made any sufficient location or designation
of a line in California, so that it could claim the lands in dispute under the grant made by the act of 1866;
That. the lands in question were covered by the location
made by the Southern Pacific Railroad Company under the
act of Congress granting lands to it, and were part of those
withdrawn from sale and in its favor by the Secretary of the
Interior; and,
That, in any view, the right of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company to those lands attached and became complete
upon the forfeiture of the lands and rights granted to the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, such forfeiture-it
was claimed - not affecting the rights previously acquired by
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company under the accepted
maps of the definite location of its line, and under the withdrawal from sale of the lands appertaining to that line.
In the former suits it was conceded that if the maps filed
by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company in 1872 were
valid maps of definite location, sufficiently identifying the
lands granted to it, 'then .the lands involved in those suits
were within the overlapping limits of the two grants.
The learned counsel for the railroad company in those cases
contended that, in order to show a conflict between the claims
of the two companies to the particular lands then in controversy, the United States must show that the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company designated its route under the act
of 1866, and that there was no proof of that fact "except
that the Atlantic and Pacific Company from time to time
filed certain fragmentary maps pretetliding to designate routes,
and which, if connected, would not constitute a route such as
the act of 1866 authorized it to select." This general point,
counsel argued, resolved itself into three subsidiary questions,
namely: "1. Whether the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company ever designated its route: 2. Whether such a designation, if made, operated, from the mere circumstance that the
grant to that company was prior in time to that made to the

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 41
Opinion of the Court.

Southern Pacific Company, to exclude thae lands in the overlapping limits at the 2lace of crossingfrom the latter grant:
3. Whether, if such designation was made, the proviso in the
23d section of the above act of March 3, 1871, protecting the
rights, c present and prospective,' of the Atlantic and Pacific
Company, was designed for any other purpdse than to save
to it any lands which it might eventually earn by a full performance of its undertaking."
Manifestly the fundamental question in the former cases
was whethber the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company ever
filed any such maps as the act of 1866 contemplated when
declaring that the odd-numbered sections granted should be
those on the line of the road to which the United States had
full title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption or other claims or rights, "at
the time the line of said road is designated by a plat thereof,
filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office."
In those cases, the Circuit Court denied the relief asked,
and dismissed the bills filed by the United States. 39 Fed.
Rep. 132 ; 40 Fed. Rep. 611; 45 Fed. Rep. 596; 46 Fed. Rep.
683. But this court reversed the judgments so rendered, holdingThat the grants to the Atlantic and Pacific and the Southern Pacific Railroad Companies were in presenti,that is to
say, the route not being at the time determined; the grant
was in the nature of a float, no title attaching to any specific
sections until they were capable of identification;
That when the granted lands were once identified by approved maps of definite location, the grants' severally took
effect by relation as of the dates of the respective acts of
Congress-the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company being prior in time to that made to the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company;
That the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company did file
maps of definite location in 1872, which were "received
and approved by the Land Department as maps of definite
location"; that then "the specific tracts were designated, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to them the title of the Atlantic and Pacific attached as of
July 27, 1866" ; that "in fact the line of definite location of
the Atlantic and Pacific was established, and maps thereof
filed and approved, before any action in that respect was
taken by the Southern Pacific Company"; and that "there
was never a timb, therefore, at which the grant of the Southern Pacific could be said to have attached to these lands, and
the plausible argument based thereon, made by counsel for the
Southern Pacific Company, falls to the ground";
-That the map filed by the Southern Pacific Railroad Company April 3, .1871, could not have been a map of definite
location, but was "only of the general route, and there was
then no designation of lands tb which the Southern Pacifi
Company's title could attach";
That it was immaterial whether the map of definite location- of the Southern Pacific road was filed and approved
before or after April 11, 1872, "for, when filed, the grant
could take effect by relation only as of March 3, 1871 [the
date of the grant to it], and at that time, and for nearly five
years theretofore, the title to these lands had been in the
Atlantic and Pacific"; nor was it material that the act of
1871 "in terms purports to bestow the same rights, grants
and privileges. as were granted to the Southern Pacific Rail-'
-road Company by the act of 1866," for that merely defined
-" the extent of the grant and the character of the rights and-privileges" given, and did "not operate to make the latter
-grant take effect by relation as of the date of the prior grant,
and thus subject the grants to the two companies to the rule
controlling contemporaneous grants as established by St. Paul
and-Sioux City Railroad v. Winona and St. Peter Railroad,
112 U. S..720, and Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad v. Chlicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway, 117 U. S. 406"; that "even if
Congress had in terms expressed an intent to that effect in a
subsequent act, it was not competent by such legislation to
divest the rights already vested in the Atlantic and Pacific
Company" ; that the case, stating it in the best way for the
railroad company, was one" of two companies with conflicting grants, each of whose line of definite location has been.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 43
Opinion of the Court.

approved by the Land Department"; and that "unquestionably, the grant older in date takes the land" ;
That whatever right or title was acquired by the Southern
Pacific :Railroad Company, by its map filed April 3, 1871, was
"absolutely displaced when the Atlantic and Pacji Company'8 map was fildd"; that Congress intended "no scramble
between companies for the grasping of titles by priority of
location, but that it is to be regarded as though title passes as
of the date of the act, and to the company having priority of
grant, and, therefore, that. in the eye of the law it is now as
though there never was a period of time during which any
title to these lands was in the Southern Pacific"; so that,
"whatever may have beQn the dates of the filing by the respective companies, the case stands as though the lands
granted to the Atlantic and.Pacific had been identified in
1866 and title had then passed, and there never was a title of
any kind vested in the Southern Paific Company"; and,
That upon the forfeiture by Congress of the rights granted
to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, the lands to
which its grant had -attached upon the filing and acceptance
of its map of definite location in 1872 did not inure to the benefit of the Southeri _Pacific,Railroad Company; that "if the
act of forfeiture had not been passed by Congress, the Atlantic and Pacific could yet construct the road, and that constructing it, its title to these lands would become perfect ".;
that "no power but Congress could interfere with- this right
of the Atlantic and Pacific"; that "Congress, by the act of
forfeiture of July 6, 1886, determined what should become of
the lands forfeited"; that "it enacted that they be restored
to the public domain"; that "the forfeiture was not for the
benefit of the Southern Pacific, it was not to enlarge its grant
as it stood prior to the act of forfeiture," but was for'the
benefit of the United States, as shown by the act of Congress
declaring that the lands be restored to the public domain;
consequently, that by the act of forfeiture, "the title, of the
Atlantic and Pacific was retaken by the General Government,
and retaken for its own benefit and not that of the Southern
Pacific Company"; and that the lands belonged to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
had "no title of any kind" to them. United BtatMes v. Southem Paific Railroad,146 U. S. 570; 607.
Touching the point made in the former cases, that the
maps filed by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
designating a line from the Colorado River to San Francisco
were inoperative by reason of the want of authority to construct a road to the latter city, the court said: "But it is
urged by counsel for defendant that no map of definite location of line between the Colorado River and the Pacific Ocean
was ever filed by the Atlantic and Pacific or approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. This contention is based upon
these-facts: The Atlantic and Pacific Company claimed that,
under its charter, it was authorized to build a road from the
Colorado River to the Pacific Ocean, and thence along the
coast up to San Francisco; and it filed maps thereof in four
sectiofis. San Buenaventura was the point where the westward line first touched the Pacific Ocean. One- of these maps
was of that portion of the line extending from the western
boundary of Los Angeles County, a point east of San Buenaventura, and through that place to San Miguel Mission, in the
direction of San Fraficisco. In other words, San Buenaventura was not.the terminus of any line of definite location
from the Colorado River westward, -whether shown by one or
more maps, but only an intermediate point on one sectional
map. When the four maps were filed, and in 1872, the Land
Department, holding that the Atlantic and Pacific Company
was authorized to build not only from the Colorado River
-directly to the Pacific Ocean, but also thence north to San
Francisco, approved thom as establishing the line of definite
location. Subsequently, and while Mr. Justice Lamar was
Secretary of the Interior, the matter was refxamined, and it
was properly held that under the act of 1866 the grant to the
Atlantic and Pacific was exhausted when its line reached the
Pacific Ocean. San Buenaventura was, therefore, held to be
the western terminus, and the location of the line approved to
that point. The fact that its line was located, and maps filed
thereof in sections, is immaterial. St. Paul & _Paciftc Rail-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

45

Opinion of the Court.

-oad v. oth,6m Paift 1Railroad,139 U. S. 1. Indeed, all
the transcontinental roads, it is believed, filed their maps of
route in sections. So the question is, whether the filing a
map of definite location from the Colorado River through San
Buenaventura to San Francisco, under a claim of right to construct a road the entire distance, is good as a map of definite
location from the Oolorado River to San Buenaventura, the
latter point being the limit of the grant. *Wethink, unguestion bly, it is. Though a party claims more than he is legally
entitled to, his claim ought not to be rejected for that to
which he has a right. The purpose of filing a map of definite
location is to enable the Land Department. to designate the
lands passing under the grant; and when .a map of such a
line is filed, full information is given, and, so far as that line
may legally extend, the law perfects the title. it surely cannot be that a company must determine .at its peril the extent
to which its grant may go, or that a mistake in such determination works a forfeiture of. all its right to lands." 146 U. S.
570, 596.
The closing paragraph in the opinion in the former cases, is
in these words: "Our conclusions, therefore, are, that a valid
and sufficient map of definite location of its route from the
Colorado River to the Pacific Ocean was filed by the Atlantic
and Pacific Company and approved by the Secretary of the
Interior; that by such act the title to these lands passed, under
the grant of 1866, to th Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, and remained held by it subject to a condition subsequent until the act of forfeiture of 1886; that by.that act of
forfeiture the title of the Atlantic and Pacific was retaken by
the General Government and retaken for its benefit, and not
that of the Southern Pacific Company, and that the latter company has no title of any kind to these lands." 146 U. S.607.
In the cases of United States v. Colton -Marble and Lime
Company and United iStdta v. Southern Paoific Railroad
Company, 146 U. S. 615, it was adjudged that the proviso in
the act of March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573 (giving lands in
aid of the construction of the Southern Pacific Railroad),. that
the grant should "in no way affect or impair the rights, present

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

or prospective, of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,"
operated to except the indemnity lands of the Atlantic and
Pacific Company from the grant to the Southern Pacific
Company.
The former cases were decided in this court on the 12th day
of December, 1892.
A petition for rehearing was presented to the several members of the court, but a rehearing was not granted. In that
petition the Southern Pacific Railroad Company insisted that
this court had erred in various particulars, among them the
following:
In not giving due legal effect to the forfeiture act of July 6,
1886, its contention - as on the oiiginal hearing - being that

the legal operation and effect of that act were to avoid the
grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company as of the
date of the act of 1866, and to restore to the United States,
a of that date, the title of all the lands embraced in the forfeiture, leaving nothing in the way of the full enjoyment by
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company of the grant made to
it; consequently, that all proceedings taken by the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company, under the act of 1866, were
avoided and defeated' as absolutely and effectually as if the
grant had never been made and no proceedings taken in
execution of it; and,
In respect to the "designation of line under the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad maps and the effect and operation
thereof."
The present suit was brought by the United States against
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company and D. 0. Mills and
G. L. Lansing as trustees in a mortgage executed by that company on the 1st day of April, 1875 (the same trustees and
mortgage referred to in the former cases), as well as against
certain individuals and corporations, to quiet the title of the
United States to the lands involved in this suit. It was pending at the time the former cases Avere decided in this court.
The lands now in controversy are situated opposite to and are
coterminous with the first, second and fourth sections of the
Southern Pacific Railroad as constructed between 1873 and

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. U1NITED STATES.

47

Opinion of the Court.

1877, inclusive, and within the primary and indemnity limits
of the grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company made
by the 23d section of the Texas and Pacific act of March 3,
1871; the 61,939.62 acres patented to that company being
opposite to the first and fourth sections of its road. It may
.be said that the lands here in dispute belong to one or the
other of the following classes: Lands within the common
granted limits of both the Atlantic and Pacific grant of 1866
and the Southern Pacific grant of 1871; lands within the
granted limits of the Southern Pacific grant and the indemnity
limits of the Atlantic and Pacific grant; lands within the
Southern Pa~ific indemnity limits and the Atlantic and Pacific
granted limits; lands within the common indemnity limits of
both grants. Of those in dispute, 219,012.93 acres have not
been surveyed by the United States.
But all the lands now in dispute are within the limits of the
grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,/' the
maps filed by that company in 1872, and which were approved
by the Land Department, are to be regarded as maps of definite location. This is substantially admitted to be a correct
statement of the controlling question before the court; for the
defendants, in their very able argument, state that the lands
involved in this suit "are within the limits which would have
appertained to the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific upon the
1872 route, if that had been an authorized route, and if a
definite location had been duly made thereon so as to attach
the grant to specific lands."
The contingencies here suggested have been fully met by
this court; for it was distinctly adjudged, in the former cases,
as between the Government and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, 146 U. S. 570, 596, that the maps filed in 1872
sufficiently identified the lands granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company on the contemplated line between
the Colorado River and San Buenaventura on the Pacific
coast, although, for want of authority in that company to
construct a railroad to San Francisco, they did not secure to
the company any lands north of San Buenaventura; that is,
those maps were directly, adjudged to be maps adequately

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

fixing or locating the line of the road under the act of 1866.
The records of those cases having been introduced in the present suit, there is no room for doubt - if those records are competent evidence- as to what was in issue and what was
adjudged in the former cases. The maps which in this case
are relied upon by the United States as maps of definite
location, and which the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
denies to be of that character, are the identical maps which
the Government 'elied on in the former cases, and the same
which that company referred to and made part of its answer"
in the former litigation, and which were adjudged by this
court, in conformity with the contention of the Government,
to be valid maps of definite location, the acceptance of which
made it impossible for the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
to acquire any interest in any lands granted to the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company that were forfeited to the
United States by the act of 1886.
It is said, however, that, under the pleadings and evidence
in this collateral proceeding, it is open to the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company to renew the contest as to the sufficiency
of the maps of 1872 filed by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company and to show that they were not maps of definite
location.
Is this position consistent with the settled rule of law as to
the conclusiveness, between parties and their privies, of the
final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction of
matters put in issue by the pleadings?
The importance of this question, independently of the magnitude of the interests to be affected by our decision, and of
the earnest contention of learned counsel, justifies a reference
to some of the adjudged cases, showing the grounds upon
which this salutary rule rests.
The general principle announced in numerous cases is that
a right, question or fact distinctly put in issue and directly
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, as a ground
of recovery, cannot be disputed in a subsequent suit between
the same parties or their privies; and even if the second suit
is for a different cause of action, the right, question or fact

SOUTHERN PACIFIC "RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 49
Opinion of the Court.

once so determined must, as between the same parties or their
privies, be taken as conclusively established, so long as the
judgment in the first suit remains unmodified. This general
rule is demanded by the very object for.which civil courts
have been established, which is to secure the peace and repose
of society by the settlement of matters capable of judicial
determination. Its enforcement is essential to the maintenance of social order; for, the aid of judicial tribunals would
not be invoked for the vindication of rights of person and
property, if, as between parties and their privies, conclusiveness did not attend the judgments of such tribunals in respect
of all matters properly put in issue and actually determined
by them.
Among the cases in this court that. illustrate the general
rule are Eopkins v. lee, 6 Wheat. 109, 113; ,Srmith v. Hernochen, .7 How. 198, 216; Thompson v. Roberts, 24 How. 233,
240; Washington, Alexandria & Georgetown Steam Packet
Co. v. Sicklles, 24 How. 333, 340, 34,1, 343; Russell v. Place,
94 U. S. 606, 608; Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351;
"Campbell v. Rahkin, 99 U. S. 261; Lumber Co. v. BuchtZ,
101 U. S. 638; Bissell v. Spring. Valley Township, 124. U. S.
225, 230; and Johnson Co. v. Wharton, 152 U. S. 252.
In Hopkins v. Lee - which was a suit in equity by the purchaser of land to compel the vendor to remove 6ertain incumbrances upQn it -it
was held that a fact established therein
and made the basis of a decree could not be disputed in a subsequent action of covenant brought by the latter against the
former for not conveying certain.lands, part of the consideration, the court saying that the rule on that subject had
found its way into every system of jurisprudence, not only
from its obvious fitness and propriety, but because without it
an end could not be put to litigation; in Smith v. Fernochen
which was ejectment by an assignee of a mortgage to
recover possession of the mortgaged premises -that a final
decree, in a previous suit, brought by the mortgagee against
the mortgagor to foreclose the mortgage, adjudging the mortgage to be invalid for want of. authority in the mortgagor to
execute it, concluded the question of title, the court observing
VOL. CLXVM-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

that the case came within the general rule that the judgment
of a court of concurrent jurisdiction directly upon the point is
as a plea a bar, or as evidence conclusive between the same
parties or their privies upon the same matters when brought
directly in question in another court; in Thompson v. Roberts,
.that the judgment of a court of law, or a decree of a court of
equity, directly upon -the same point, and between the same
parties, is good as a plea in bar, and conclusive when given in
evidence in a subsequent suit; in TMashington, Alexandria fi
Georgetown Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles, that to the end that
rights might be secured and the repose of society preserved,
and that limits might be imposed upon the faculties for litigation, the presumption had been adopted that the thing adjudged
by a court of competent jurisdiction, under definite conditions,
shall be received in evidence "as irrefragable truth," such
a presumption being a guarantee of the future efficiency
and binding operation of the judgment; in Cromwell v. Sac
County, that a judgment upon the merits constitutes an
absolute bar to a subsequent suit upon the same cause of
action in respect to every matter offered and received in evidence, or which might have been offered to sustain or defeat
the claim in controversy, while if the second action is upon a
different claim or demand, the judgment in the prior action
operates as an estoppel only as to those matters in issue or
points controverted upon the determination of which the find-.
ing or verdict was rendered, the injury in such case being "as
to the point or question actually litigated and determined in
the original action, not-what might have been litigated and
determined" ; in Russell v. Place, that "&'judgme n t of a court
of competent jurisdiction, upon a question directly involved in
one suit, is conclusive as to that question in another suit between the same parties"; in Cdmpbell v. Rankin, that in an
action to recover damages for trespass upon a mining claim,
the record of a former suit between the same parties, involving the same question of interfering mining claims, was admissible as evidence, the court Observing that "whenever the
same question has been in issue and tried and judgment rendered, it is conclusive of the issue so decided in any subse-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES. 51
Opinion of the Court.

quent suit between the same parties"; in Lumber Co. v.
Buchtel, that in a suit for the amount of the first instalment
due on a contract for the purchase of timber lands -the defence being that the defendant had been induced to make the
contract by false and fraudulent representations - a judgment
based upon a finding that no such representations were made,
was conclusive in respect of that matter in a subsequent action
brought on the contract to recover a different instalment; in
Bissell v. Spring Valley Township, that an adjudication, in
an action on coupons of municipal bonds, sustaining the
defence that the municipality never executed the bonds, and
that the bonds were not its legal obligations, was conclusive
in a subsequent action brought by the same party on different
coupons of the same bonds; and in Johnson Co. v. Wharton,
that in an action to recover stipulated royalties, for a named
period, for guard rails constructed according to the specificktions of a certain patent, in which judgment was given for
the plaintiff, the defendant in a second suit brought to recover
like royalties for a later period could not make the same defence, although, by reason of the small amount in dispute, be
was precluded from having the judgment in the first suit
reviewed upon writ of error, this court stating that it was a
general rule, having its foundation in.a wise public policy,
that the final judgment of a court, at least one of superior
jurisdiction, competent under the law of its creation to deal
with the parties and the subject-matter, and having acquired
jurisdiction of the parties, concludes those parties and their
privies in respect of every matter put in issue by the pleadings
and determined by such court. See also Lessee of Parrishv.
Ferris,2 'Black, 606, 608; Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580,
592; Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327, 342.
The latest expressions of opinion by this court on this question are in -LastChance Mining Co. v. Tyler .Mining Co., 157
U. S. 683, 691, and New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S.
371, 396. In the first of these cases it was held that a judgment by default in favor of the Last Chance Mining Company against the Tyler Mining Company for a parcel of land
embraced within the boundaries of certain mining claims,

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged to 'have been legally located and to belong to the
,former company, precluded the latter company from contending in a subsequent action for part of a mineral -Vein not
embraced within the former suit, but within the mining claims
involved in the first suit, that the mining claims in question
had not been legally located - the court observing that- "a
judgment by default was just as conclusive an adjudication
between the, parties of what is essential to support the judgment as one rendered after answer and contest," the essence
of estoppel by judgment being that "there has been a judicial determination of a fact, and the question always is,has
there been such determination, and not, upon what evidence or
by what means was it reached?"
In -Yew Orleansv. Citizens' Bank, it was held that the final
and unreversed judgment of a court in Louisiana of superior
jurisdiction upon the issue, duly raised by the pleading, whether
the bank was exempt by contract with the State from taxes
assessed against it for particular years, concluded that question, as between the same parties and their representatives,
in respect of taxes assessed against it for subsequent years.
In that case. the court said: "The estoppel resulting from
the thing adjudged does not depend upon whether there is
the same demand in. both cases, but exists, even although
there be different demands, when the question upon which
the recovery of the second demand depends has under identical circumstances and conditions been previously concluded
by a judgment between the parties or their privies."
In view of these adjudications, it would seem that the controlling inquiry is whether, under the pleadings in the former
cases, the sufficiency of the Atlantic and Pacific maps of 1872
as maps of definite location, was a matter in issue and determined, as between the United States and the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company.. That that matter was in issue and was
actually decided in the former cases, is too clear to admit of
doubt. -That it was material is equally clear; for, upon its
determination depended the- question whether the grant of
public lands to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
attached to any specific lands along its line to which the for-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

53

Opinion of the Court.

feiture act of 1886 could apply. If those maps were valid
maps of definite location, then, according to the settled adjudications of this court, to which reference has often been made,
the right of that company to earn the lands appertaining, to
its line, thus definitely located, attached, by relation, as of the
date of the grant to it in 1866; and in this view the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company, holding the junior grant, took none
of the lands appertaining to that line by reason of the definite
location and construction of its line. Thus, also, those lands
were in such condition, at the date of the forfeiture act of
1886, that they could be forfeited as lands in which the
Atlantic and: Pacific Railroad Company then had an interest,
and, in accordance with the act of Congress, be fully restored
to the public domain for the exclusive benefit of the United
States, unaffected by the later grant made to the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company.
The only way in which, in the former cases, the court could
have avoided a decision as to the character bf those maps,
was to have held that whether they were maps of definite
location or not, the rights of the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company attached, upon the -declaration of forfeiture, to the
lands then in dispute, and that Congress was without power
to restore them to the public domain. So far from sustaining
that view, the court expressly adjudged that, upon the acceptance of the Atlantic and Pacific maps of 1872, the rights of
that company, in the lands granted, attached az of the date of
the grant of 1866, and that it was not possible for the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, by the location of its road,
whether located before qr after the acceptance of the maps of
1812, to acquire any interest whatever in the lands there in
dispute that would prevent Congress, upon forfeiting the
rights of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, from
restoring such lands to the public domain to be disposed of
by the United States as it saw. proper.
It is in effect said that the failure of the Government in
the former cases to aver, in words, that the maps of 1872
were maps of "definite location," leaves the question of the
sufficiency of those maps open in this case relating to different

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

lands. It seems to be forgotten that the amended bill was in
exact conformity with the act of 1866, which in the third section '-the one making the grant -used the words "at the
time the line. of said road is designated by a plat thereof filed
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
The word "designated" in that act meant no more nor less
than the words "definitely located" mean. When the Southern Pacific Railroad Company denied that the Atlantic and
Pacific line bad been sufficiently designated, or that there had
been a valid location of it, both litigants, as -well as the court,
understood, and properly, that the case presented the question
whether there had been such a definite location of the Atlantic and Pacific line as the act of Congress required. That
that company so understood the word ".designated," as used
in the third section of the act of 1866, is beyond question;
for its answer filed in the former cases on the 30th of December, 1889, in which it claimed the lands then in controversy,
refers to the miap filed by it on the 3d April, 1871, as one by
which "it designated the line of its said railroad." And when
it was adjudged that the maps of 1872 indicated a definite
location of the line of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, the
settled rules of law forbid that the defeated party should
reopen that question in another suit, relating to other lands
appertaining to the line so designated. The matter alleged
by the Government, and upon which the recovery proceeded,
was, we repeat, the sufficiency of the maps of, 1872 to entitle
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company to earn the lands
there in dispute.
It is also said that the decision iu the former cases concluded, at most, only the questioh of title in respect of the
lands there in controversy. This cannot be correct when the
lands in both suits have a common source of title, and the title
depends upon the existence or non-existence of the same fact
or facts. If the accepted maps filed by the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company in 1872 sufficiently located the line
of that company, it could not possibly be that they were valid
.,maps of definite location as to part of the lands appertaining
to that line, and not maps of that character in respect of

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

55

Opinion of tbe Court.

other lands embraced by it. Consequently, the former judgment, while unmodified, determined the character of the
maps,, as between the United States and the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company. If the court had adjudged in the former
cases that those maps were neither filed nor accepted as maps
of definite location, but were only maps of general route,
could it be doubted that the Government would have been
estopped from asserting to the contrary in a subsequent suit
involving other lands claimed by the Southern Pacific Railroad Company which were covered by the same maps, and
appertained to the same line? Must a different principle be
applied because the decision was favorable to the Government
upon the question whether the maps -of 1812 were maps of
definite location? Certainly not.
But it is earnestly insisted that a prior judgment cannot
operate.as an estoppel in a subsequent suit between the same
parties, unless it be pleaded when there is an opportunity to
do so; that such an opportunity existed in this suit; and that
the United States having failed to avail itself of that opportunity, it was open to the court to determine the truth of the
matter upon all the evidence now before it.
This contention is based upon the 45th Rule in Equity, providing: "No special replication to any answer shall be filed.
But if any matter alleged in the answer shall make it necessary for the plaintiff to amend his bill, he may have leave to
amend the same with or without payment of costs, as the
court, or a judge thereof, may'in his discretion direct." Under
this rule, it is said, the United States had an opportunity to
amend its bill, and in that mode to have met the allegations
of the amended answer of 1893; but having failed to ask
leave -to amend, it lost the benefit of the former judgment.
The part of the amended answer of 1893 to which counsel
refer as making an issue or issues not made in the former
cases, and which, it is contended, must have been met by an
amended bill if the Government expected to rely upon the
prior judgment, is as follows:
"And the said respondents deny that said Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company did locate on the ground or desig-

OCTOBER TER., 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

nate upon a plat or map tne whole of said line of railroad,
under or in accordance with said act, from Springfield, Missouri, by way of the points or places named in said act, or
otherwise, to the Pacific Ocean, and deny that it ever lawfully
located or adopted or designated any part of said line in the
State of California; and deny that on or about the - day of
-,
1866, or at any other time, said company did file any
such plat in the office of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, and deny that at that, or at any such time, any
such designation or location of said line of railroad was approved by the Secretary of the Interior; and deny that the
odd sections of public lands on each side of said road for
thirty miles were withdrawn from market or reserved; and
deny that the lands in suit herein, or any of them, fell within the twenty-mile limits of any such line, or were ever lawfully withdrawn from market, or reserved for, or for the
benefit of, the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company;
and deny that the Atlantic anad Pacific Railroad Company
ever designated a line of railroad between the Colorado River
and the Pacific Ocean by a map thereof filed in the office of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, or made or
filed a map of definite location of a route from the Colorado
River to the Pacific Ocean, whether by the most practical and
eligible route or otherwise howsoever. The said respondents
aver that the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
never made any actual or definite location of its railroad in
California, nor constructed any part of a railroad in said
State, under or according to the act of Congress approved
July 27, 1866, or any amendments, modifications or supplements thereto or otherwise howsoever. The pretended location of a route by said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
in California never was or became an actual or definite location, or anything else than an attempted or pretended designation of a general route for a railroad from San Francisco to
the Needles, and such pretended location or designation of
route was a colorable and fraudulent location or designation
of an unauthorized and impracticable line. The Secretary of
the Interior never undertook to accept such pretended loca-

" SOUTHERIT PACIFIC RAILRWD v. UNITED STATES.

5T

Opinion of the Court.

tion or designation as anything else than a designation of a'
general route, and no right to or interest in any public lands
was, or could be, acquired by said railroad company by reason
of any su~ch attempted location or designation, or any act of
acceptance thereof."
Undoubtedly, there are cases in which a party may lose
the benefit of a prior judgment, in respect of matters determined by it, when, having an opportunity to plead such judgment, he fails to do so. But that principle has no application
in the present case. Under Equity Rule 45, a general replication to the amended answer of the defendant company
sufficed, unless that amended answer contained such matter
as made it "necessary" that the Government should amend
the bill. But when a former recovery is to be relied on by
the plaintiff it can only be necessary, to amend the bill
when the rules of pleading imperatively requirethat to be
done in order to obtain the benefit of such re6overy. No
amendment of the bill was necessary in this case for the
reason'that the judgment in the prior suit - the present suit
being on a different cause of action - could not be pleaded as.
an absolute bdr arising upon the face of the record, but could
be used as evidence. to support the -contention that the maps
of 1872 sufficiently identified the lands gr'anted by the act of
1866. The contrary is again asserted by the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company in this suit. But that precise issue we
have seen was made in the former suit, and was determined
for the United States. And to establish that fact, the United
States introduced the former record as evidence in its behalf.
To say that the Government lost the benefit of its former
judgment, covering this issue or question, because it did not
amend its bill and plead the judgment as an estoppel, is to say
that it was required to set out in its pleading what was merely
evidence to support its title to the lands in controversy. The
45th Equity Rule is not to be so interpreted. It means, at
most, that a general replication is always sufficient to put in
issue every material allegation of an answer or amended answer,
unless the rules of pleading imperatively require an amendment
of the'bill. Besides, Rule 45 must be construed in connection

OCTOBER .TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the- Court.

with'the Equity Rule 19, declaring that the plaintiff, at his discretion, may omit from the bill " what is commonly called the
charging part of the bill, setting forth the matters or excuses
which the defendant is supposed to intend to set up by way of
defence to the bill."
If it was competent for the Government, in this case, to have referred, in its bill, to the former
suit, and, in advance, by appropriate allegations, to have met
the objections which it supposed the defendant would urge
to the former judgment as fixing the character of the maps
of 1872, it was not bound to pursue that course nor to amend
its bill and set out what was only evidence of its title to the
particular lands in controversy.
But there is another reason why the United States was not
required to amend its bill. Before the ameided answer of
1893 was filed, the Government, by its pleadings, had distinctly alleged that the maps of 1872 sufficiently designated
the line of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, and identified
the lands granted to it, while the defendant's pleadings with
equal distinctness averred that they were not valid maps of
definite location. Such was the condition of the record when
this court decided the former case on the 12th day of December, 1892. That decision, as we are informed by the railroad
company, instructed it "as' to where the real strain of the
controversy came," and having failed "to appreciate the inferences which the court might draw from facts or evidence,"
leave was obtained in the Oircuit Oourt to file, and it did file
in this case, the amended answer of 1893, bringing, it is
claimed, into view such new issues and such additional facts
as deprived the Government of the right, unless it amended
the bill and formally pleaded such judgment as an estoppel,
to rely upon the judgment in the prior cases as conclusive of
the matters determined by it. That which is claimed to be
new in the amended answer was not such matter as even
prior to Equity Rule 45 would have required a special replication or an amended bill in order to avoid its effect. The
amended answer was, at most, only a more extended statement of the grounds of defence previously set forth. The
manifest purpose of. it was to relieve the strain of the prior

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

59

Opinion of the Court.

decision, and, under the guise of presenting, new issues of a
.substantial character, to enable the railroad company, by introducing additional evidence on its behalf, to retry, in this collateral proceeding, the question as to the sufficiency of the
maps of 1872. The pleadings in the prior cases distinctly
averred an adequate designation of the line of the Atlantic
and Paeific Railroad and the identification of the lands appertaining to that line. The averment in the amended answer
of 1893, that the location by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company of its route in California" never was or became
an actual or definite location," but was only "an attempted
or pretended designation of a general route for a railroad
from San Francisco to the Needles," and that such designation of its route was "a colorable and fraudulent location or
designation of an unauthorized and impracticable line," was
not at all necessary, because the defendant company, under
its original answer,.if not estopped by the former judgment,
could have introduced any evidence tending to show that
there had been no valid definite location of the line of the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, and that the maps of 1872 were
filed and accepted only for the purpose of indicating a general
route. So that if the Government was entitled, under the
pleadings as they were when the defendant company filed its
amended answer of 1893, to introduce in evidence the record
and judgment in the former cases, its right in that respect
was not lost by its failure to amend its bill and specially set
up that record.
That the record and judgment in the former cases were
admissible in evidence, without being specially pleaded, we
entertain no doubt. And when before the court as admissible evidence,, the only inquiry was whether the sufficienc4
of the maps of 1$72 was a matter in issue and determined
between the parties to those cases. There are some cases
holding that a judgment, without being specially pleaded, is
not conclusive upon the issues to which it relates, but is only
persuasive evidence,'and that the court is at liberty to find
according to the truth as shown by all the evidence before
it. But according to the weight of authority and upon prin-

OCTOBER TERMA, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ciple, the former judgment, if admissible in evidence at all,
is conclusive of the matters put in issue and actually deter-mined by it. Mr. Greenleaf- correctly says that "the weight
of authority, at least in the United States, is believed to be in
favor of the position that where a former recovery is given
in evidence, it is equally conclusive, in its effect, as if it were
specially pleaded by the way of estoppel." 1 Greenleaf on
Ev.  531. This view is in accord with the decisions of this
court above cited. See, also, Xfarsh v. Pier,4 Rawle, 272,
288; Lawrence v. Bunt, 10 Wend. 80, 83; Bette v. Stair, 5
Connecticut, 550; Sawyer v. Voodbury, 7 Gray, 499, 502;
Jennison v. West Springeld,13 Gray, 544; Cannon v. Brame,
45 Alabama, 262; Trayh8rn v. Colburn, 66 Maryland, 277,
278 ; Garton v. Botts, 73 Missouri, 274, 278 ; Walker v. Ohase,
53 Maine, 258, 260; -ynch v. Swanton, 53 Maine, 100, 102;
Pratherv. Owens, Cheves (Law), 236; Jones v. Weathersbee, 4
Strob. (Law) 50, 54, 55 ; Warwick v. Underwood, 3 Head, 238,
240 ; Isaacs v. Clark, 12 Vermont, 692,694.
In the present case the railroad company has made an
elaborate argument in support of the proposition that the

nenessary legal effect of-the forfeiture act of July 6, 1886 was
to restore the title of all lands affected by that act to the
United States, as of the date of the grant of July 27, 1866,
and to "avoid

"

and

"

defeat," as of that date, the grant to

the Atlantie'and Pacific Railuoad Company with like effect as
if it had never existed ; that, upon such- forfeiture, the United
States became seized of its original estate in the lands as of
July 27, 1866, with the same effect as if it had never made
any grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company;
and that it could only enter upon the lands for forfeiture as
of its former estate in them. In this view, it is contended
that the rights of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
attached immediately upon the forfeiture, and before the
lands so forfeited were restored .to the public domain. It is
sufficient to say, in reference to this contention, that the question as to the effect of the act of forfeiture upon the rights of
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company was fully considered
and determined in the former.cases. It was held that it was

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. WNITED STATES.

61

Opinion of the Court.

not the intention of Congress that these lands should pass
conditionally to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, or
to give to it any lands previously granted to the other company, and that the first proviso of section three of the act
of 1866 imports that "Congress was not only not intending
to give to one company that which it had already given to
another, but intended that lands previously granted should
be definitely excepted from the later grant." The court said:
"Again, there can be no question, under the authorities heretofore cited, that, if the act of forfeiture had not been passed
by Congress, the Atlantic and Pacific could yet construct its
road, and that, constructing it, its title to these lands would
become perfect. No power but that of Congress could interfere with this right of the Atlantic and Pacific. No one but
the grantor can raise the question of a breach of a condition
subsequent. Congress, by the act of forfeiture of July 6,
1886, determined what should become of the lands forfeited.
It enacted that they be restored to the public domain. The
forfeiture was not for the benefit of the Southern Pacific; it
was not to enlarge its grant as it stood prior to the act of
forfeiture. It -had given to the Southern Pacific all that it
had agreed to in its original grant; and now, finding that the
Atlantic and Pacific was guilty of a breach of a condition
subsequent, it elected to enforce a forfeiture for that breach
and a forfeiture for its own benefit."
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that it must be
taken in this case to have been conclusively adjudicated in
the former cases -as between the United States and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company 1. That the maps filed by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company in 1872 were sufficient, as maps of definite location,
to identify the lands granted to that company by the act of
1866.
2. That upon the acceptance ofI those maps by the Land
Department, the rights of that company in the lands so
granted, attached, by relation, as of the date of the act of
1866; and,
3. That in view of the conditions attached to the grant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and of the reservations of power in Congress contained in the
act of 1866, such lands became,,upon the passage of the -forfeiture act of 1886, the property of the United States, and by
force of that act were restored to the public domain, without
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company having acquired any
interest therein that affected the power of the United States
to forfeit and restore them to the public domain.
These grounds being accepted as the basis of our decision,
the law in the present case is clearly for the United States;
-for, as all the lands here in controversy ape embraced by the
maps of 1872, and, therefore, appertain to the line located by
such maps, it must be, for the reasons stated in the former
decision, that the United States is entitled, as between it and
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, to the relief given
by the decree below.
Even if we were prepared upon a reexamination of the
former cases, or upon the showing made by the present
record, to hold that the maps of 1872 were not valid maps
of definite location, we could not for that reason, in this proceeding, go behind the former adjudication, and deny to the
United States the benefit of the rule making that adjudication, so long as it was unmodified, conclusive, as between the
parties to it, of all matters actually determined under the
issues in the prior suits.
One other matter deserves attention. The learned counsel
for the railroad company in their extended comments .upon
the evidence in the present record, insist that, under the proof
now before the court, it is indisputable that the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company did nothing more than file, in the
Interior Department, "a map of general or preliminary route
for the purpose of securing a preliminary withdrawal of
lands"; that the maps of 1872 were neither filed nor accepted as maps of definite location; and that the proof is of
such a peculiar character as to demand an examination of it
by the court.
In support of this contention reference was made to duly
certified copies of certain letters, appearing in the records of
the Interior Department: 1. A letter to Mr. Delano, Secre-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

63

Opinion of the Court.

tary of the Interior, from Mr. Hillyer, attorney of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company under date of March 8,
1872, enclosing "the accompanying maps to be filed in the
office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office"the above maps of 1872, four in number - which letter concludes: "The Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company respectfully request that the lands embraced in the grant to the
company under the provisions of the act of July 27, 1866, and,
coterminous with the portions of the line or route designated
by the plats herewith filed or heretofore filed by said company, may be withdrawn from sale, entry or preemption and
reserved for said railroad company according to the provisions
of said act." 2. A letter from Secretary Delano to Mr.
Hillyer, under date of March 9, 1872, acknowledging the
receipt of the latter's letter, "transmitting four maps of the
preliminary location of portions of the Atlantic & Pacific
Railroad," and saying that said "maps have to-day been transinitted to the Commissioner of the General Land Office for
appropriate action." 3. A letter from the Secretary of the
Interior to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
under date of March 9, 1872, saying: "I transmit herewith,
for appropriate action, four maps of the preliminary location
of portions of the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad," and that said
"maps were received yesterday from C. J. Hillyer, Esq., atty.
of the Co. -in this city."
From these documents it appears that the attorney of the
railroad company described two of the maps as "designating,"
and the remaining two as "showing," the line or route of the
railroad, while the two letters of the Secretary describe them
as maps of the "preliminary location of portions" of the
road. It is conceded that in the letters of the Secretary, as
originally written, the maps were referred to as maps of
definite locatior of portions of the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad. And it was shown that the word "preliminary,"
inserted in place of "definite," in the two letters of the Secretary, was in the handwriting of a former (now deceased) clerk
in the Land and Railroad Division of the Interior Department, who, it is claimed, made the change with the knowledge

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

or in conformity with the directions of the Secretary; also,
that corresponding memoranda, in pencil and in the handwriting of that clerk, appear upon those letters, and upon the
jackets containing them.
Upon the part of the United States it is contended that
there is no evidence whatever tending to show that the Secretary had any knowledge of or directed the word "definite"
to be stricken out and "preliminary" inserted; on the contrary, that the Department, at all times, subsequently to
March 9, 1872, treated the maps in question as maps of
definite location. In support of its position the Government
refers to the fact that in the letter-press copy, as well as in
-what is called by counsel the permanent record of letters, in
the Department, the letter of the Secretary to the Commissioner of the General Land Office contains the words "definite
location," not "preliminary location," and the letter of the
Secretary to Mr. Hillyer of March 9, 1872' reads" "four maps
of the definite location," not "four maps of the preliminary
location." The Government also refers to the fact that when
the Commissioner of the Land .Office received the letter from
the Secretary of the Interior the indorsement placed on the
back of the map was in these words: "Map of definite location of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad through the county
the Los Angeles, and part of San Bernardino, Cal. Received
at the G. L. 0. with Secretary's letter of March 9,1872"; also
to the letter of the Commissioner, dated April .22, 1872, and
addressed to the local land -officers in California, in which the
former said: "Gentlemen: I transmit herewith a diagram
showing the definite location -of the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad under the act of July 27, 1866, Stat. Vol. 14, p. 292,
from a point on the western boundary of Los Angeles Co. to
a point in T. 7 N., R. 7 E. of the San Bernardino, in your district, showing also the twenty and thirty-niile limits of the
land grant under said act," etc. It also appears that Assistant
Attorney General Smith, in an official communication addressed to the Secretary of the Interior, under date of March
16, 1874- in which he considered the question of the right
of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company to locate its

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILR'D v. UNITED STATES.

65

Opinion of the Court.

line from the Colorado River, by way of Tehachapa Pass to
San Francisco -referred to and treated the maps of 1872
as maps of definite location. And they were so referred to
and treated by Secretary Lamar in his opinion of March 23,
1886, holding that that company was not entitled to construct
a road from San Buenaventura to San Francisco. 4 D. L. 0.
458.
We cannot concur in the view that the evidence upon this
branch of this case is of such nature as to compel the court, in
the interest of truth and justice, not only to consider it but to
pass again upon the issue made in the former suits as to the
character of the maps of 1872. Whatever is new in the evidence now before us, touching that matter, is simply cumulative oi the one side or the other. The application to consider
that evidence is practically an application for a rehearing as
to things directly determined in the former suits between the
same parties, and which adjudication has never been modified.
Such a course of procedure is wholly inadmissible under the
settled rule of res judicata. Without, therefore, expressing
any opinion as to the effect of this new evidence relating to
matters once finally adjudged, we hold that the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company cannot, in this proceeding, question
the validity of those maps as maps of definite location.
One of the objects of this suit was to obtain a decree quieting the title of the United States, not only to the lands
claimed by the Southen Pacific Railroad Company, but to
those claimed by numerous individual defendants by purchase
from or contract with that company. The decree which was
passed declares that it is not to "affect any right which -the
defendants, or any of them, other than the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, now have or may hereafter acquire in, to
or respecting any of the lands hereinbefore described, in
virtue -of the act of Congress entitledI An act to provide for
the adjustment of land grants made by Congress to aid in the
construction of railroads and for the forfeiture of unearned
lands, and for other purposes,' approved March 3, 1887."
Instead of leaving undetermined the matters in dispute between the United States and the defendants other than the
VOL. CLXVII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

Southern Pacific Railroad Company, the Circuit Court should
have determined, by its final decree, what rights those defendants have by virtue of the above act of March 3, 1887, 24
Stat. 556, c. 376, in the lands or any of them now in dispute
and claimed by the United States. The effect of the decree
is to leave undetermined the question whether the defendants
who claim under the Southern Pacific Railroad Company are
protected by that or any other act of Congress. The Government was entitled to a decree quieting its title to all the lands
described in its pleadings, except those, if any, that are protected, in the hands of claimants, by acts of Congress.
United States v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad, 165 U. S.
463; Winona & St. Peter Railroad v. United States, 165
U. S.483. But as the Government has not appealed, the
decree cannot be reversed for the error of the Circuit Court in
not finally disposing of the issues between the United States
and the individual defendants who claim under the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company.
The result isthat the decree must be affirmed in all respects
as to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, as well
as to the trustees in the mortgage executed by that com.pany,and affirmed also as to the other defendants, subject,
however, to the right of the Government to proceed in the
Circuit Court to a final decree as to those defendants, and
it is so ordered.

BERGERE v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. BERGERE.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
Nos. 43, 46. Argued April 19, 1891. -Decided

October 18, 189T.

On a petition to the governor of the province of New Mexico, in 1819, for
a grant-of public land, made by a resident in that province, the governor
directed possession to be given by the alcalde, and the expediente to be
transmitted by that officer to the office of the governor, so that, if ap-

