OCTOBER TERNM 1897.
Syllabus.

should have entertained a bill for the specific performance of
this contract, and not have relegated the parties to the doubtful and unsatisfactory remedy of an action at law. We
understand the rule to be, as stated by Cook on Stock and
Stockholders, section 338, that " if the stock contracted to be
sold is easily obtained in the market, and there are no particular reasons why the vendee should have the particular stock
contracted for, he is left to his action for damages. But
where the value of the. stock is not easily ascertainable, or
the stock is not to be obtained readily elsewhere, or there is
some particular and reasonable cause for the vendee's requiring the stock contracted to be delivered, a court of equity
will decree a specific performance, and compel the vendor to
*deliver the stock."
This principle is particularly applicable to a case of this
kind, where the corporation was but recently formed, the
railroad yet unconstructed, and its shares of uncertain value
- if indeed they had any market value at all. To require
the complainant, under these circumstances, to bring a personal action for a breach of contract against Shield, who is
alleged to be hopelessly insolvent and wholly unable, to respond in damages, is to offer him the shadow and deny him
the substance of relief.

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY.
EROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF. THE STATE OF KENTUCKr.
No. 10. Argued October 12,13,1897. -Decided

November 29, 189?.

By the constitution of Kentucky of 1891 it is provided that "lotteries and
gift enterprises are forbidden, and no privileges shall be granted for
such purposes, and none shall be exercised, and no schemes for similar
purposes shall be allowed. The General Assembly shall enforce this act
by proper penalties. All lottery privileges or charters heretofore granted
aie revoked." Held,
(1) That the provision when applied to a previously existing lottery
grant in the State of Kentucky was not inconsistent with the
contract clause of the Constitution of the United States;

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY.

489

Opinion of the Court.
That a lottery grant is not, in any sense, a contract within the meaning of the Constitution, but is simply a gratuity and license, which
the State, under its police powers, and for the protection of the
public morals, may at any time revoke, and forbid the further
conduct of the lottery; and that no right acquired during the life •
of the grant, on the faith of or by agreement with the grantee,
can be exercised after the revocation of the grant and the forbidding of the lottery, if its exercise involves a continuance of
such lottery;
(3) That all rights acquired on the faith of a lottery grant must be
deemed to have been acquired subject to the power of the State to
the extent just- indicated; nevertheless, rfghts acquired under a
lottery grant, consistently with existing.law, and which may be
exercised and enjoyed without conducting a lottery forbidden by
the State are, of course, not affected, and could not be affected, by
the revocation of such grant;
(4) That this court when reviewing the final judgment of a state court
upholding a state enactment alleged to be in violation of the contract clause of the Constitution, possesses paramount authority
to determine for itself the existence or non-existence of the contract set up, and whether its obligation has been impaired by the
state enactment.

(2)

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. TV. Sanders and Mr. John G. Carlisle for plaintiff
in error. -Mr. Aaron -ohn was on their brief.
MAfr. W. S Taylor, Attorney ,General of the State of Ken-

tucky, for defendant in error.
brief.

.Mr,. William Goebel was on his

:19t. JUSTICE HmRLAw delivered the opinion of the court.
By section 226 of the constitution of Kentucky of 1891 itV
is provided that "lotteries and gift enterprises are forbidden,
and no privileges shall be granted for such purposes, and none
shall be exercised, and no schemes for similar purposes shall
be allowed. The General Assembly shall enforce this section
by proper penalties. All lottery privileges or charters heretofore granted are revoked."
By joint resolution of the General Assembly passed January 30, 1892, the Attorney General of that Commonwealth

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

was directed, in execution of this constitutional provision, to
immediately institute and prosecute such legal proceedings as
might be necessary to suppress or revoke all lotteries or lottery
franchises, privileges or charters operated in Kentucky.
In conformity with that resolution the present action was
instituted in the Louisville Law and Equity Court. The petition charged' that the defendants were exercising in the city
of Louisville, Kentucky, and elsewhere, without lawful warrant, the right, privilege and franchise to operate a lottery.
The relief asked was a judgment preventing the exercise by
the defendants of such lottery franchise.
The defendant Douglas in his answer set out numerous acts
of legislation under the authority of which he claimed the
right to conduct the lottery in question. He insisted that
the statutory and constitutional provisions invoked in support
of the action were repugnant to the clause of the Constitutioft of the United States prohibiting any State from passing
*a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The defence was sustained .by the court of original jurisdiction, which overruled a demurrer to the answer; and the
Commonwealth having declined to plead further, its petition
was dismissed. That judgment was reversed by the Court
of Appeals of.Keitucky, and the validity of the above constitutional provision relating to lotteries, and as applied to
the defendant's claim of a lottery privilege, was adjudged
not to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
The case is here upon writ .of error sued out by Douglas,
who claims that by the final judgment of the highest court of
Kentucky he has been denied a right and immunity secured
to him by the Constitution of the United States.
It appears that under authority conferred by various legislative enactments which need not be specially set forth, the
Mayor and Board of Councilmen of the city of. Frankfort, a
municipal corporation of Kentucky. made, December 31, 1875,
a written agreement with one E. S. Stewart, whereby that city
sold, conveyed and assigned to him a scheme of lottery composed of 30,900 classes which it bad devised, not more than
two of which were to be drawn on each day, Sundays ex-

DOUGLAS. .. KENTUOKY
Opinion of the Court.

cepted, until the whole number should have been fully drawn;
Stewart to have the right to control and operate such scheme
in accordance with the provisions of the acts under which the
city proceeded. The agreement provided that, -inconsideration of the above sale, assignment and transfer, Stewart
should pay to the city of Frankfort various sums of money
at stated times. As required by the agreement, and in 'confortuity with the acts of Assembly, he executed to the Commonwealth a bond in the penal sum of one hundred thousand
dollars, conditioned for a faithful compliance with the provisions of those acts, and for the payment of all sums stipulate.d
to be paid to the city qf Frankfort, as well as all prizes drawn
in any class under said lottery scheme.
By an act approved March 22, 1890, the General Assembly
of Kentucky repealed the charter of the Frankfort lottery.
Acts, Ky. 1889-90, c. 391, vol. 1, pp. 42, 43. But Stewart had
died before the passage of that act, and by contract with his
wife, as sole legatee and devisee of his estate, Douglas acquired the right to operate the lottery scheme that had been
acquired by Stewart.
It is stated in the answer -and as this case was determined
upon demurrer to the answer, it must be assumed in the present action to be true -that Stewart and Douglas fully complied with all the provisions of the above contract, paid all
instalments due the city of Frankfort as the same became
payable, fully performed every condition of his c6ntract and
bond, and was ready and willing to carry out the same according to the terms, stipulations and covenants thereof.
The answer further averred that on the 11th day of September, 1878, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, in the case of
Webb v. The Commonwealth of Kentucky= brought to enjoin
the exercise of the privileges of a lottery grant - adjudged
that the sale of a.lottery franchise, under the authority of the
State, vested in the vendee a property right to conduct such
lottery in accordance with the terms of his contract, which
could not be repealed by the legislature of the State, and
held section 6 of article 21, chapter 28, of the Revised Statutes
attempting such repeal to be void so far as it affected the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

rights of the purchaser under a contract made before the
passage of the act.
.The answer also contained the following averments: "Defendant says that he has a vested right to conduct the lottery
business by drawing the classes contained in the scheme which
the city of Frankfort sold and conveyed to E. S. Stewart
under the terms, conditions and covenants of the contract of
December 31, 1875, executed and delivered as aforesaid, and
that there has never been at any time more than two classes
in said scheme drawn in one day, and there are a large number of classes in said scheme yet to be drawn; that his said
right under his said contract was authorized and approved by
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, repeatedly adjudged valid by
the judicial tribunals of this State, and such right has always
been held by the courts of this State inviolable and not subject to repeal, alteration or modification by subsequent legislatfires. Defendant says that he has paid large sums of money
for said scheme devised as aforesaid and said contract, and has
made contracts and incurred liabilities involving large sums
of money upon the faith 'of said contract, and relying upon
the terms thereof and upon the decisions of the courts of
the State adjudging said contract to be valid, obligatory and
inviolable."
In support of the contention that the cdntracts for the purchase of the lottery scheme in question were valid and irrepealable, the defendant in his answer referred to an act of
the General Assembly approved May 17, 1886, declaring that
"every corporation or person to whom a lottery franchise has
been granted by the General Assembly of this Commonwealth,
and which franchise has been declared by a judgment of the
Court of Appeals to be a lawful and existing one, or the lawful, grantee, alienee; legatee or assignee of such franchise,
shall be authorized to operate and conduct'a lottery in this
Commonwealth when he, she or it shall have filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a certified copy of the judgment
rendered, and the opinion delivered by the Court of Appeals
in a case heard and determined before it, in which it has determined that a lottery could be lawfully operated under said

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY.

493

Opinion of the Court.

grant from the General Assembly of this Commonwealth, and
obtain from the said auditor a license, (which is hereby authorized and directed to issue on the filing of said copies
hereinbefore required ) reciting the filing of said copies, and
authorizing the operation of said lottery for one year from
the date thereof, on the condition that, said licensee shall,
within five days thereafter, pay to the said auditor of the
State the sum of $2000; and said license issued by said
auditor, as hereinbefore directed, and any and all renewals
thereof, as hereinafter provided for, shall be conclusive evidence in all the courts of this Commonwealth of the rights of
the licensee to operate a lottery for the period therein named,

etc."
Under that statute the defendant. obtained a license from
the Auditor of Public Accounts, from year to year, and paid
to the State $2000 annually every year since the passage of
that act.
The answer also stated: "And the General Assembly of
Kentucky, further recognizing the property rights of this
defendant under his said contract, by an act of the General
Assembly of the State approved May 12, 1884, enacted that
the general council of the city of Louisville should by ordinance provide the payment of $200 per annum for every
lottery office or agency therefor in the city 'of Louisville,
which ordinance was accordingly passed by the general council of the city of Louisville and is now a valid ahd existing
law, and this defendant has paid the city of Louisville $200
for each office operated by him, and at the time of the institution of this suit had paid the city of Louisville the sum of
$200 for each office he then operated in advance for one year
from the time of the issue of the license, and that the said
licenses thus obtained have not yet expired."
The 'defendant, in addition, pleaded r'es judicatain respect
of the matters involved in this action. This defence is thus
set forth: "The defendant further states that after the making of the contract between the city of Frankfort and said
E. S. Stewart, as set forth in the second paragraph hereof,
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, by her attorney general,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

filed a petition in the Franklin Circuit Court against the city
of Frankfort, the said E. S. Stewart and others, in the nature
of a writ of quo warranro, alleging in said petition that the
said E. S. Stewart and others claiming under him were selling
lottery tickets under the said grant, claiming under the contract referred to in the second paragraph herein; and further
alleged that the said board of councilmen of the city of Frankfort had no title to said lottery franchise and had no authority
to sell and convey the scheme as set forth in said contract,
and that the defendants in said action were engaged in selling tickets gnder said contract in violation of law, and that
the exercise of the privileges by them was injurious to public
morals by tempting the people into the immoral habit of gain'ing, and that the said defendants were usurping the franchise,
all of which- matters and things are now relied upon in this
action and are the identical matters-for which relief is sought
in this case, and that by the said petition the plaintiffs herein
sought in said action to enjoin and oust the defendants therein
from proceeding further to sell tickets and operate the lottery
,privileges claimed by them, which are the identical rights
claimed herein, and the court was asked to hold the said franchise void and to anndl and adjudge as cancelled all rights of
the defendants. therein ; that said'defendants filed their answer
in said case and joined issue upon the allegations of the said
petition'; that thereafter, upon motion of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky, the said action was transferred from the Franklin Circuit Court to the Oldham Circuit Court; that in the
said case such proceedings were had that the court finally
entered a judgment declaring that under the act of Iarch 16,
1869, referred to in paragraph 2 hereof, the city of Frankfort
and the board of councilmen of said -city did obtain the legal
title.to said lottery franchise and the classes thereof; and,
further, that the said city of Frankfort, under the act of March
were authorized to sell
28, 1872, referred to in paragraph .2,
and. dispose of said scheme upon such terms as they deemed
proper, and that said-act was constitutionally valid and binding and authorized such sale and transfer, and that the contract made between the city of Frankfort and the said E. S.

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

Stewart, which-is the same contract relied upon herein, was a
valid and subsisting obligation and enforceable as a legal obligation. From said judgment of the Oldham Circuit Court
the Commonwealth of Kentucky prayed an appeal to the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and the said Court of Appeals
of Kentucky, on the 27th day of February, 1878, entered a
judgment affirming the judgment of the Oldham Circuit
Court, and adjudged in said action that the General Assembly
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, by the act of March 16,
1869, did confer upon the board of councilmen of the city of
Frankfort the said lottery franchise, and that the said act was
valid, and that the city of Frankfort, by reason thereof, was
the owner of the scheme named in the contract referred to,
and that under the act of March 28, 1872, the city of Frankfort had the legal right to sell and dispose of the same upon
such terms and conditions as it deemed proper, and that the
said sale to the said E. S. Stewart and the contract in relation
thereto was binding and-valid and had been entered into in
strict conformity with the said acts of the General Assembly.
A copy of the pleadings in said case and the opinions and
judgments of said courts will be filed herewith as a part
hereof. The defendant says that by reason of the proceedings
in said action and the judgment of the courts thereupon, the
plaintiff is barred from bringing or maintaining this action;
that the legality of the act of March 28, 1872, and the validity
of the contract of E. S. Stewart with the city of Frankfort
are matters res judcata by reason of said judgment, and he
pleads and relies upon the same herein."
The Federal question presented for our determination arises
upon the claim of the plaintiff in error- which was denied
by the final judgment of the highest court of Kentuckythat the agreement between the city of Frankfort and E. S.
Stewart, by which the latter became the owner of the lottery
scheme devised by that city, under the authority of law, was
a contract the 6bligation of which the State was forbidden
by the Constitution of the United States to impair either by
legislative enactment or by constitutional provision.
If this interpretation of the Federal Constitution be correct,

496

OCTOBER' TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

it will follow that any provision in the constitution or in the
statutes of Kentucky forbidding lotteries and gift enterprises
in that Cbmmonwealth, and revoking the lottery privileges or
charters theretofore granted, is null and void as to the defendant Douglas, who succeeded to the rights acquired by
Stewart under-the agreement of 1875 with the cityqof Frankfort.
This necessarily results from the declaration that the Constitution of the United Sate§ is the supreme law of the land, anything in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary
notwithstanding.
This court had occasion many-years ago to say that the common forms of- gambling .were comparatively innocuous when
placed in contrast with the wide spread pestilence. of lotteries;
that the former were confined to a few persons and places,
while the latter infested the whole community, entered .every
dwelling, reached every class, preyed upon. the hard earnings
.of the poor, and plundered the ignorant and simple. Phae
v. Tirginia, 8 How. 163.
Is a State forbidden by the supreme law of the land from
protecting its people at all times from practices which it conceives to be attended by such ruinous results? Can the legislature of a State contract away its power to establish such
regulations as are reasonably necessary from time to time to
.protect the public morals against the evils of lottery?
These questions arose and were determined, upon much consideration, in Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814, 819, 821.
It will be seen from the report of that case that the legislature of Mississippi chartered the Mississippi Agricultural, Educational and Manufacturing Aid Society, with authority to
raise money by way of lottery; and in consideration there6f
the society paid $5000 into the treasury of the State, and
agreed to pay, and did pay, an annual tax of $1000, together
with one half of one per cent, on the amount of receipts
derived from the sale of certificates. While the Society's charter was in force, the State adopted a new constitution, declaring that the legislature should- never authorize a lottery, nor
should the sale of lottery tickets be allowed, nor any lottery
theretofore 'authorized be permitted to be drawn or tickets

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of 'the Court.

therein be sold. This was followed by the passage of an act
prohibiting lotteries, and .making it unlawful to conduct one
in the State. The question was then raised by an information
in the nature of quo warranto,whether the lottefy privilege
given by the Society's charter could be withdrawn or impaired
by the state legislation-that Society having, as was conceded, complied with all the conditions upon which it charter
was granted. The Supreme Court of Mississippi held that the
State could withdraw the lottery privilege which it had
granted. And that conclusion was questioned upon writ of
error sued out from this court.
Chief Justice Waite, who delivered the unanimous judgment of the court in that case, said: "The question is therefore directly presented, whether in view of these facts, the
legislature of a State can, by the charter of a lottery company,
defeat the will of the people, authoritatively expressed, in relation to the further continuance of such business in their midst.
We think it cannot. No legislature can bargain away the
public health or the public morals. The people themselves
cannot do it, much less their servants. The supervision of
both these subjects of governmental power is continuing in its
nature, and they are to be dealt with as the special exigencies
of the monent may require. Government is organized with
a view to their preservation, and cannot divest itself of the
power to provide for them. For this purpose the largdst legislative discretion is allowed, and the discretion cannot be
parted with any more than the power itself.". Again, referring to lotteries: "They disturb the checks and balances of a
well-ordered community. Society built on such a foundation
would almost of necessity bring forth a population of speculators and gamblers, living on the expectation of what, 'by
the casting of lots, or by lot, chance or otherwise,' might be
'awarded' to them from the accumulation of others. Certainly the right to suppress them is governmental, to be exercised at all times by those in power, at their discretion. Any
one, therefore, who accepts a lottery charter does so with the
implied understanding that the people, in their sovereign capacity and through their properly constituted agencies, may
vo- cLxvir--32

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

resume it at any time when the public good shall require,
whether it be paid for or not. All that one can get by such a
charter is a suspension of certain governmental rights in his
favor, subjebt to withdrawal at will. He has in legal effect
nothing more than a license to enjoy the privilege on the
terms, named *for the specified time, unless it be sooner abrogated by the sovereign power of the State. It is a permit,
good as against existinglaws, but subject to future legislative
and constitutional control or withdrawal."
It is suggested that, in important particulars, the opinion
and judgment in Stone v. .ississippi was modified by the decision in New Orleansv. Houston, 119 U. S. 265, 275. *So far
from this being true the principles announced in the former
case were recognized, and held to have no application in the
latter case. In New Or'leans v.. Houston the question was
whether the legislature of Louisiana could destroy or impair
a lottery charter granted and authorized by the constitution
of that State. This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews,
said: "'It is undoubtedly true that no rights of coihtract are
or can be vested under this constitutional provision which a
subsequent constitution might not destroy without impairing
the obligation of a contract, within the sense of the Constitution of the Uited States, for the reason assigned in the
case of Stone v. _lllssissipp.. But an ordinary atct of legi'slation'cannot have that effect, because the constitutional pro-.
vision has withdrawn from the scope of the.police power of
the State, to be exercised by the General Assembly, the subject-matter of the granting of -lottery charters, so far as the
Louisiana State Lottery Company is concerned, and any act
of the legislature contrary to this prohibition is upon fainiliar principles .null and void.. The subject is not within the
jurisdiction of the police power 'of .the State, as it is permitted to be exercised by the legislature -under the constitution of the State." So that in New Orleans v. Houston
it was decided, that, while a lottery grant was not a contract within the meaning of the Federal Constitution, the
obligation of which was protected against impairment by
the State making the grant, the legislature could not strike

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY.

•499

Opinion of the Court.

down a lottery which the fundamental law of the State had
authorized.
In the argument on behalf of the plaintiff in error much
stress was laid upon former decisions of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky relating to rights acquired under lottery grants.
Our attention has been particularly called to. Gregory v.
Shelby College Lottery Trustees, 2 Met. (Ky.) 589, 598. From
the report of that case it appears that the legislature of Kentucky in 1838 granted to Shelby College the privilege of raising the sun of one hundred thousand dollars by lottery, with
authority to sell or dispose of the scheme or any classes of the
lottery. In 1855 the roiision of the Revised Statutes, declaring that all lottery privileges shoold cease, took effect.
And .the question arose as to th6 effect of that enactment
upon the rights of one who had loaned money to the College
upon the faith of the lottery grant, and to secure the loan had
taken from the trustees of the institution a mortgage upon
their rights under the lottery franchise. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky, conceding that the grant of. a privilege
to raise money by a lottery was a mere gratuity, was not an
act of incorporiation, conferred no charter rights, and did not
amount to a contract, proceeded: "Although, therefore, the
legislature has the power to repeal the grant of a lottery
p-.ivilege where no rights have accrued under it, and though
lotteries have a demoralizing tendency and exercise a very
pernicious influence over the ignorant and credulous part of
the community, and for this reason have been .almost universally denounced by the law-making power in different States
of the Union, yet if rights have been acquired or liabilities
incurred upon the faith of the privilege conferred by the
grant, it would, be obviously unjust to permit such rights to
be divested by a legislative revocation of the privilege. If,
therefore, any vested rights have been acquired under the
present grant before the passage of the repealing law then,
to the extent of such rights at least, the law fuast b6 regarded
as unconstitutional and inoperative. This conclusion is, "we
think, fully sanctioned by the following adjudged cases: Dartnouth (ollege v. JFoodward, 4 Wheat. 518 to 643; Fletcher v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Peck, 9 Cranch, 87; University of M aryland v. Williams, 9
Gill & Johnson, 365; Terret v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43, 52;
Louisville v. -University of Louisville, 15 B. Mon. 642, 692.
The plaintiff, Waller,. before the repealing act 'was passed,
had, on the faith of the lottery grant, advanced large sums
of money, which were appropriated by him for the benefit
of Shelby College, and the trustees of the college had mortgaged to him their rights under the lottery franchise for his
indemnity. As the lottery privilege was granted for the
benefit of the Shelby College, and the money was advanced
by Waller with the assent of the trustees of the college, under
the belief that it would be realized eventually from the lottery,
he became thereby invested with the right to the use of the
grant until from such use the sum was produced which he
.had advanced for the benefit of the college. This was a
vested right of which he could not be divested by an act of
the legislature. So far, therefore, as the repealing act interferes with or affects this right, it is unconstitutional and
inoperative." These principles were recognized in cases subsequently decided by the same court.
The defendant insists that his rights having been acquired
when these decisions of the highest court of Kentucky were
in full force, should be protected according to the law of the
State as it was adjudged to be when those rights attached.
But is this court required to accept the principles announced.
by the state court as to the extent to which the contract clause
of the Federal Constitution restricts the powers of the state
legislatures? Clearly not. The defendant invokes the jurisdiction of this court upon the ground that the rights denied
to him by the final judgment of the highest court of Kentucky,
and which the State seeks to prevent him frdm exercising,
were acquired under an agreement that constituted a contract
within the meaning of the Federal Constitution. This 'contention is disputed by the State. So that the issue presented
makes it necessary to inquire whether that which the defendant asserts to be a contract was a contract of the class to which
the Constitution of the United States refers. This court must
determine - indeed, it cannot consistently with its duty refuse

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

to determine- upon its own responsibility, in each case as it
arises, whether that which a party seeks to have protected
under the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States is a contract the obligation of which is protected by
that instrument against hostile state legislation.
In efferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436, 443, which
involved the contract clause* of the Constitution, it was contended that this court should accept as conclusive the interpretation placed by the Supreme Court of Ohio upon the constitution
and laws of that State as affecting certain state legislation
which, it was alleged, constituted a contract, the obligation
of which could not be impaired by legislation. Mr. Justice
Wayne, delivering the unanimous judgment of the court, said:
"The constructions given by the courts of the states to state
legislation and to state cons.titutions have been conclusive
upon this court, with a single exception, and that is when it
has been called upon to interpret the contracts of States,
'though they have been made in forms of law,'- or by the
instrumentality of a State's authorized functionaries in conformity with state legislation. It has never been denied, nor
is it now, that the Supreme Court of the United States has
an appellate power to revise the judgment of the Supreme
Court of a State, whenever such a court shall adjudge that
not to be a contract which has been alleged, in the forms of
legal proceedings, by a litigant, to be one, within the meaning of that clause of the Constitution of the United States
which inhibits the States from passing any law impairing the
obligation of contracts. Of what use would the appellate
power be to the litigant who feels himself aggrieved by some
particular state legislation if this court could not decide, independently of all adjudication by the Supreme Court of a State,
whether or not the phraseology of the instrument in controversy was expressive of a contract and within the protection
of the Constitution of the United States, and that its cbligation should be enforced, notwithstanding a contrary conclusion
by the Supreme Court of a State? It never was intended,
and cannot be sustained by any course of reasoning, that this
court should or could with fidelity to the Constitution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

United States follow the construction of the Supreme Court
of a State in such a matter, when it entertained a different
opinion; and in forming its judgment in such a case, it makes
no difference in the obligation of this court in reversing the
judgment of the Supreme Court of a State upon such a contract, whether it be one claimed to be such under the form
of state legislation, or has been made by a covenant or agreement by the agents of a State, by its authority."
The doctrine that this court possesses paramount authority
when reviewing the final judgment of a state court upholding
a state enactment alleged to be in violation of the contract
clause of the. Oofstitution, to determine for itself the existence
or non-existence of the contract set up, and whether its obligation has been impaired by the state- enactmeht, has been
affirmed in numerous other cases. Ohio Life Ins. Co. v. Debolt, -16 How. 416, 452; Wright v. Nagle, 101 U. S.791, 794;
Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S.683, 697;
7oksburg Shreveopt, &c. Railroadv. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665,
667; -. 0. Waterivorks Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125
U. S. 18, 36; Bryan v. Board of Education, 151 U. S. 639,
650; Mobile & Ohio Railroad v. Tennessee, 153 U. S.486,
493; Badon v. Texas, 163 IT S.207, 219.
In view of these adjudications it is clear that we are not
required to accept as authoritative in this case the decision
of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in Gregory v. Shelby.
College Lottery Trustees, above cited, to the effect that a legislative revocation of a lottery grant is a violation of the Constitution of the United'States so far as such revocation affects
rights acquired on the faith of the privilege conferred by the
grant, and the exercis6 of which involves the continuance of
that privilege for such time as may'be necessary for the full
enjoyment of those rights. On the contrary, we hold that a
lottery grant is not, in any sense, a contract within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, but is simply a
gratuity and license, which the State, under its police powers,
and for the protection of the public morals, may at any time
revoke, and forbid the further conduct of the lottery; and
-that no right acquired during the life of the grant, on the
-

DOUGLAS v. KENTUCKY
Opinion of the Court.

faith of or by agreement with the grantee, can be exercised
after the revocation of such grant and the forbidding of the
lottery, if its exercise involves a continuance of the lottery as
originally authorized. All rights acquired on the faith of a
lottery grant must be deemed to have been acquired subject
to the power of the State to the extent just indicated; nevertheless, rights acquired under such a "grantconsistently with
the law as it was when they were so acquired, and which
rights may be exercised and enjoyed without conducting a
lottery forbidden by the State, are, of course, not affected,
and could not be affected, by the revocation of such grant.
Here the defendant insists that as the agreement under which
Stewart became the owner of the Frankfort lottery scheme
was lawful when made, he, as assignee of Stewart, is protected
by the Constitution of the United States in carrying on that
lottery, despite the prohibition of all lotteries and the revocation of all lottery grants by the present constitution of Kentucky adopted after the transfer to Stewart of the benefit of
that scheme. For the reasons stated, this contention must be
overruled. It could not be sustained without overruling Slone
v. .Mississippi,which we have no inclination to do.
Some stress has been laid by counsel upon the fact that, in
an action brought by the State in the nature of quo warranto
against the city of Frankfort, and which was determined upon
appeal by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky on the 27th day
of February, 1878, it was adjudged that the contract between
that city and Stewart was a valid and binding contract ; and,
consequently, the State is barred, upon the principle of Lres
judicata, from maintaining the present action. The opinion
in that case has not been published in the regular reports, buta copy of it appears in the record. It is sufficient, in answer
to the contention of the defendant, to say that the case referred to, as appears from the opinion of the state court,
involved nothing more than the validity of the agreement of
1875 between the city of Frankfort and Stewart, under the
law as it was when such agreement was made, and did not
necessarily involve any inquiry as to the power of the State,
by legislative or constitutional provision, and without violating

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the clause of the Constitution of the United States prohibiting the passage of state laws impairing the obligation of contracts, to revoke an existing lottery grant and prohibit all
lotteries within its limits. The thing adjudged in the case
referred to fully appbars from- the statement made by the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky of the conclusion which it
reached, namely: "We therefore conclude that the legislature
of 1869 conferred on the board of councilmen of the city of
Frankfort franchises, powers and authority equal or exactly
similar to those that had by the act of 1838 been conferred on
the managers, which include the privilege of raising one hundred thousand dollars by operating a lottery." A decision
that the agreement between the city of Frankfort and Stewart
was, when made, valid under the laws of Kentucky, did not
determine, as between the State and those asserting rights
undef that agreement, that the State could not, by subsequent
legislative enactment or by constitutional provision, and so
far as the Constitution of the United States was concerned,
prohibit all lotteries,' and thereby prevent the exercise by
those asserting the right under or by virtue of that agreement, to. carry on a lottery against the expressed will of the
State.
We have felt some embarrassment arising from the conflict
between the present decision and the former decisions of the
highest court of Kentucky upon the general subject of lotteries, and as to the power of the State, by contract, to so tie its
hands that it may not revoke, in its discretion, grants of lottery privileges and prohibit the carrying on of all lotteries.
But that embarrassment has been greatly lessened by the fact
that that court, in its opinion in the present case, after referring to Stone v. .i~sissippi, said: "It seems to us that this
decision defining the provision of the Federal Constitution as
to what subjects are contracts and protected by it, and that
lottery grants, though paid for, are not protected by said provision, is binding upon this court, and has the effect to overrule its decisions holding, the contrary view. But apart from
the binding force of the decision,- it seems that its logic is
conclusive and convincing in drawing the distinction between

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

505

Syllabus.

the contractual and governmental power of the States, to wit,
that the provisions of the Federal Constitution in reference
to contracts only inhibits the States from passing laws impairing the obligations of such contracts as relate to property
rights, but not to subjects that are purely governmental."
In the same opinion it is well observed that, under any other
doctrine than that announced in Stone v.. Mississippi, the
legislature, by giving or bartering away the power to guard
and protect the public morals, could "convert the State into
dens of bawdy houses, gambling shops and other places of
vice and demoralization, provided- the grantees paid for the
privileges, and thus deprive the State of its power to repeal
the grants and all control of the subjects as far as the grantees
are concerned, and the trust duty of protecting and fostering
the honesty, health, morals and good order of the State would
be cast to the winds, and vice and crime would triumph in
their stead. Now, it seems to us that the essential principles
of self-preservation forbid that the Commonwealth should
possess a power so revolting, because destructive of the main
pillars of government."
We perceive no error in the judgment of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, and it is
.Ajflrmed.
MR. JUsTicE SmEAs agrees that the judgment should be
affirmed, but does not concur in all the reasoning of this
court.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 138. Argued December 2, 189T.-Decided December 13, 1897.

The questions propounded in the certificate in this case do not present distinct points or propositions of law, clearly stated, so that each can be
distinctly answered, without regard to the other issues of law involved,

