3ILLER v. CORNWALL RAILROAb COMPANY.

131

Statement of the Case.

Apart then from the insufficiency of the petition and the
legal effect of the previous judgment of this court, the final
order of the Circuit Court must be held to have been properly
entered, in that the rendition of the judgment complained of
involved no violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Affirmed.

MILLER v. CORNWALL RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 18. Argued October 18, 189T. -Decided November 1, 1897.
The validity of a statute is drawn in question whenever the power to enact
it, as it is by its terms, or is made to read by construction, is fairly open
to denial, and is denied.
Under Rev. Stat. § 709, if the ground on which the jurisdiction of this
court is invoked to review a judgment of a state court is, that the
validity of a state law was drawn in question as in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States, and the decision of the state court is
in favor of its validity, this must appear on the face of the record before
the decision below can be reexamined here.
A suggestion of such appearance, made on application for reargument,
after the judgment of the trial court is affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State, comes too late.
This court has no jurisdiction on a writ of error to a state court to declare
a state law void on account of its collision with the state constitution.
An objection in the trial of an action in a state court that an act of the
State was "unconstitutional and void," when construed in those courts
as raising the question whether the state legislature had power, under
the state constitution, to pass the act, and not as having reference to
any repugnance to the Constitution of the United States, is properly
construed.
The report of this case in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania shows that
it assumed that it was dealing, under the assignments of error, only with
the state constitution.

LEwIs Miller brought his action against the Cornwall Railroad Company in the Court of Common Pleas of Lebanon
County, Pennsylvania, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained through the company's negligence while he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

being carried on one of its trains. At the trial, the case was
left to the jury, but the court reserved "the question as to
whether there is any evidence of the defendant's negligence
to go to the jury." A verdict was returned in plaintiff's favor,
notwithstanding which, judgment was entered for defendant
on the point reserved. The decision turned on the conclusion
that Miller was to be treated as if he was, at the time of the
accident, an employ6 of defendant because, though not in fact
such employ6, he came within the terms of the first section of
an act, of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, approved
April 4, 1868, Laws Penn. 1868, p. 58, No. 26, § 1, which
reads as follows:
"SE TioN 1. That when any person shall sustain personal
injury or loss of life while lawfully engaged or employed on
or about the roads, works, depots and premises of a railroad
company, or in or about any train or car therein or thereon,
of which company such person is not an employ6, the right
of action and recovery in all such cases against the company
shall be such only as would exist if such person were an
employ6: Provided, That this section shall not apply to
passengers."
The court.was asked by plaintiff to instruct the jury, among
other points, as follows: "1. Lewis Miller, the plaintiff, was a
passenger. on the train when he received his injury." "2. The
act of April 4, 1868, is. unconstitutional and void." "3. The
right of the plaintiff to have remedy for his injury was a well
known and clearly defined common law right, one of the inherent indefeasible rights guaranteed to all citizens by the
Constitution. The act of April 4, 1868, can therefore not be
invoked by the defendant against the plaintiff. And it is not
remedy by the due course of law." But the court refused to
do so. The case was taken by appeal to the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania andthe first, second and third errors assigned
were to the refusals to give the foregoing points, in their
order. The words' "inherent indefeasible rights" and "remedy by the due course of law" were placed in quotation in
point three, as given in the third assignment. The judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court, on February 27, 1893,

MILLER v. CORNWALL RAILROAD COMPANY.

133

Opinion of the Court.

at the January term of that year. 154: Penn. St. 473. On
January 8, 1894, appellant Miller filed a motion for reargument on these grounds:
"1. Because of material errors of fact into which the court
fell, in the consideration of the case, and which, we believe,
led to the affirmance of the judgment of the court below.
"2. Because the plaintiff desires to present the case for
review on the point raised, by the second assignment of error,
as to the constitutionality of the act of April 4, 1868, under
the XIV Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The question was not orally argued for want of time and the
judgment is not in shape for such a review.
"3. General reargument."
A reargument was refused, and this writ of error then sued
out.
Mr. Benjamin Morris Stroue and Mr. A. Frank Seltzer
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Wayne He Veagh for defendant in error.
. Shirk was on his brief.

-Mr. -Howard

Mn. CmEF JusrbEn FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that the first section
of the act of April 4, 1868, is invalid because in contravention
of the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it deprives him of due
process of law and denies him the equal protection of the laws.
The validity of a statute is drawn in question whenever the
power to enact'it, as it is by its terms, or is made to read by
construction, is fairly open to denial, and is denied. Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v. Hlopkins, 130 U. S. 210, 224.
And under section -709 of the Revised Statutes, if the ground
on which the jurisdiction of this court is invoked is that the
validity of a state law was drawn in question as in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States, and the decision
of the state court was in favor of its validity, this must appear

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

on the face of the record, before the decision below can be reexamined here. Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163
U. S. 63, 70.

The record in this case discloses no attempt to question the
validity of the particular statute, in the state courts, as in
contravention of the Federal Constitution, unless in the points
requested to be given in the trial court and the refusal to give
them, for even if it could be held that such question was raised
on the application for reargument, nearly a year after the
judgment of the Common Pleas was affirmed by the Supreme
Court, the suggestion dame too lite. Texas & Pacific Railway v. Southern Paoif#c Company, 137 U. S. 48; Loeber v.
Schroeder, 149 U. S. 580; Pim v. St. Louis, 165 U. S. 273.
We have no jurisdiction on a writ of error to a state court
to declare a state law void on account of its collision with a
state constitution, and it was long ago held that where it was
objected in the state courts 'that an act of the. State was
"unconstitutional and void," the objection was properly construed in those courts as raising the question whether the
state legislature had the power under the state constitution
to pass the act, and not as having reference to any repugnance
to the Constitution of the United States. Porterv.. Foley, 24
How. 415.
By the constitution of Pennsylvania, it has always been
declared that all men "have certain inherent and indefeasible
rights, among which are those of enjoying and defending life
and liberty, of acquiring, possessing and protecting propety
and reputation, and of pursuing their own happiness"'; and
also "that all courts shall be olien, and every man, for an injury done him in his lands, goods, person or reputation, shall
have remedy by the due course of law, and right and justice
administered without sale, denial 'or delay." Const. Penn.
1790, Art. IX, §§ 1, 11; Const. Penn. 1838, Art. IX, §§ 1, 11;
Const. Penn. 1873, Art. I, § 1, 11.
The presumption as to point two is that it referred to the
state constitution, and this was made certain by point three,
which quotes from that instrument.
From the report of this case in 154 Penn. St. 473, it is appar-

FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC -RAILROAD. 135
Syllabus.

ent that the state Supreme Court assumed that it was dealing
under the assignments of error only with the state constitution, as was also the fact in Zirby v. Pennsylvania Railroad,
76 Penn. St. 506, where the question of the constitutionality of
the first section of the act in question was directly passed
upon, and the section sustained.
We agree with counsel in the statement, made on the application for reargument, in respect of a review of this judgment
by this court because thereby the state Supreme Court had
decided in favor of the validity of the act when drawn in
question as repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
that "the judgment is not in shape for such a review."
Writ of error di8miwseed.

FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE AND POTOMAC
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF dOL MBIA.
No. 56. Argued October 20, 21, 189. - Decided November 1, 1897.
The plaintiff in error was a workman employed by the defendant in error
at its workshop in Washington. Returning from his day's labor, he
stopped at the intersection of South Capitol Street and Virginia Avenue,
to enable a repair train to pass him. -It was and for a long time had
been the custom of the railroad company to allow its workmen, who
went out on the repair train in the morning, to bring back with them on
their return in the evening sticks of refuse timber for their individu'al
use as firewood, and these men were in the habit of throwing their
pieces off the train while in motion, at the points nearest their own homes,
being cautioned on the part of the company not to injure any one in
doing it. As the train passed the plaintiff in error, such a piece of refuse
wood was thrown from it by one of the men. It struck the ground,
rebounded, struck the plaintiff in error, and injured him seriously and
permanently. He sued the company to recover damages. After the plaintiff's evidence was in and he rested, the defendant moved for a verdict
in its favor, which motion was granted. Held, that this was error; that
the question whether the defendant was negligent shuuld have been
submitted to the jury; and that it was for the jury to say whether the
custom on the part of the workmen was known to the company, whether

