OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

son personally. The decree of the Supreme Court of New
Mexico is therefore
Reversed on the cross appeal of Perea, and the cause remanded with instructionsto enter judgment in conformity
with 'this opinion, with li'erty to change the distribution
upon application if it shall appearproper.

KARRICK v. HANNAMAIT.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Wo. 12. Argued October 27, 28, 1896.-

Decided November 29, 1897.

A partner who, within the term stipulated in the articles of partnership for
its -continuance, undertakes, of his own will, and without the consent of
his copartner, to dissolve the partnership, takes exclusive possession of
its property and business, profitably carries on the business with the
property for his own benefit, and excludes his copartner from any participation in the business or the profits, is liable (whether the partnership should or should not be considered as having been dissolved by his
acts) to account to the copartner for his share of the property and of
the profits of the partnership, according to the partnership agreement.

Tmis was a suit broiight April 17, 1890, in the third judicial
district court of the Territory of Utah, by Hannaman against
Karrick for the dissolution of a partnership, formed February
-3, 1886, by an agreement in writing, by which they agreed to
become partners in a mercantile and laundry business for the
term of five years from that date, with a capital stock of
$25,000, of which the plaintiff was to furnish $5000, and the
defendant $20,000; the.defendant lent the plaintiff the sum
of $5000 for five years, for w hich the plaintiff gave a promissory note, payable at the end of that time, and secured *by
mortgage upon his interest in the partnership property; the
plaintiff was to give his entire time and attention to the
partnership business, and the defendant was to devote to it
only such time as he should see fit; the plaintiff to have the
control and management of the business generally and entirely, except as the defendant might designate, and such
matters to be subject to mutual agreement; one half of the

KARRICK v. HANNAMAI.
Statement of the Case.

net profits of the business to go to the defendant in repayment of $15,000 of the capital stock furnished by him, and
the other half to be allowed to remain in the business, except
that each partner might draw out not exceeding $125 a
month for personal expenses; the profits and losses to be
shared equally, and neither party to have any other salary or
compensation for services; and the title and interest of the
partners in the partnership property to be proportionate to
their respective contributions to the capital.
The complaint alleged the following facts: The parties
carried on business in conformity with the agreement until
February 1, 1888, when the defendant took exclusive possession of all the partnership business, stock, books and accounts,
and of the premises where the business was carried on, and
ever afterwards prevented the plaintiff from participating in
any manner in the business or deriving any benefits therefrom.
The plaintiff until that date performed his part of.the agreement, and was ever after ready and willing to perform it, and
so informed the defendant. From that date, the defendant
wrongfully, and in fraud of the plaintiff's rights, carried on
and controlled the partnership business for his own exclusive
benefit, and applied to his own use from the proceeds and
profits of the same large sums of money, exceeding the proportion to which he was entitled. On January 1, 1890, the
defendant, without the plaintiff's knowledge or assent, sold
and delivered to the Bast-Marshall Mercantile Company all
the assets and property of the partnership. The complaint
prayed for a dissolution of the partnership, the appointment of
a receiver, an injunction against interfering with the property,
its application to the payment of the partnership debts and
a division of the remainder between the partners, the setting
aside and cancellation of any transfer or assignment to the
Bast-Marshall Mercantile Company, and an account.
The defendant Karrick, in his answer, admitted the partnership, and his own. taking posses~ion on February 1, 1888; but
denied the other allegations of the complaint; and alleged
that the plaintiff mismanaged the business in various particulars specified, and that when the defendant took possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the partnership was insolvent and heavily in debt, and the plaintiff was owing to it a large sum of money, and was insolvent,
and the partnership was then dissolved by mutual consent.
The Bast-Marshall Mdercantile Company was originally
made a defendant, and filed a separate answer. But the
plaintiff, afterwards dismissed his suit as against that company; the case was referred, 'by consent of the remaining
parties, to a referee to report his findings- of fact and conchisions of law to *the court; and at the hearing before the
referee much evidence was introduced by either party in support of his allegations and denials.
On October 5, 1891, the referee mf.de his report, in which
he set forth all the evidence; and by which he found that
'the facts were as alleged in the complaint, and were not as
alleged in the answer of Karrick; and stated an account,
resiilting as follows:
Unadjusted and undivided, profits January 1, 1890,
including $2616.25 then, uncollected by defendant .......................................... $22,858 18
Profits realized after January 1, 1890 ............
99 90
Wrongfully disbuised by defendant after that date
379 50
Unavoidable losses after'January 1, 1890 ........

23,337 58
2,005 12

Net profits....................................

21,332 46

Of which, plaintiff is entitled to one half........ 10,666 23
Capital put by plaintiff into the busiiess .........
5,208 89
15,875 12
Due from plaintiff to defendant on note mentioned
in partnership agreement, without interest .....

5,000 00

.Principal sum due to plaintiff ..................
10,875 12
Interest at eight per cent yearly from January 1,
1890, to October 5, 1891, on $8258.87, the difference between $10,875.12 and $2616.25 nncollected January 1, 1890 ......................
1,165 41
Total amount due to plaintiff .....

.......

$12,040 53

KARRICK v. HANNAIMAN.
Statement of the Case.

From the findings of fact the referee concluded, as matter-of
law, that the partnership was not dissolved; but that it expired
February 3, 1891, according to the terms of the agreement;
'that the profits and losses of the partnership business should
be divided equally between the parties, after crediting- each
with his advances to and investments in the partnership; and
that the sum of $121040.53 was therefore owing to the plaintiff. The court confirmed the referee's findings of fact and
conclusions of law, and entered a decree accordingly.- j
The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which adopted the findings of fact in the district
court, and held that, for the reasons stated in its -opinion,
(the material part of which upon this point is copied in the
margin,') the defendant could not dissolve the partnership,
1'"Where the partnership is merely at will, the right of one partner to
terminate it must be conceded; but where by agreement it is to continue
for a time stipulated, the party seeking a dissolution before the expiration
of the time ought in justice at least be required to act in good faith, and at
a reasonable time, and in a reasonable manner. In the case of a partnership for a stipulated time of auration, where the business has been established, is becoming profitable, and has good future prospects, to allow one
of the partners sua sponte to expel the other and dissolve the partnership,
with a view to appropriate the business- to himself, -would be to adopt a
doctrine at once inequitable, and unsupported by either reason or justice.
There seems to be no good reason why a person should be allowed to commit a breach of his contract in such case, while in all other cases of flagrant
violation, not within the partnership, he would'be compelled io specifically
perform, If it was within his power to do so. Why should,, partner be
thusallowed to ruin the business of the firm from mere caprice, -or of his
own volition, without cause, and in violation of his agreemeht, and sacrifice the entire object of the partnership? That such a violation may entitle
the injured partner to damages is no answer, for damages, in many cases,
must necessarily prove to be utterly inadequate to compensate for the
destruction of a profitable and growing business; and, besides, this mode
of redress is usually slow and unsatisfactory, and is not a remedy that will or can do complete jtrstire between the parties. Where there is such a breach
between the parties as to render continuance impossible, or when dissension has dispelled the hopes, prospects and advantages which induced its
formation, or if for any just cause the partnership ought to be dissolved
befoie the expiration of the term, then a court of equity is competent to
grant relief. But it would scarcely seem to come within the principles of
justice to permit due partner to expel another from a profitable business

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

without reasonable cause, and without the plaintiff's consent,
before the expiration of the term stipulated in the partnership articles; and therefore that the partnership had not
for some real or fancied wrong or mismanagement, and then continue the
business himself, and profit by his own wrong, responsible only in damages.
"Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on the Law of Partnership,
§ 275, speaking of the power of one partner to dissolve the partnership
where -the time of duration is stipulated, says : 'In cases where the
partnership is by the agreement to endure for a limited period of time, the
question whether it may within the period be dissolved by the mere act or
will of one of the partners, without the consent of all the others, does not
seem to be absolutely and definitely settled in our jurisprudence, although
it would not seem, upon principle, to admit of any real doubt or difficulty.
Whenever a stipulation is positively made that the partnership shall endure
for h fixed period, or for a particular adventure or voyage, it would seem to
be at once inequitable and injurious to permit any partner at his mere pleasure.to violate his engagement, and thereby to jeopard, if not sacrifice, the
whole objects of the partnership; for the success of the whole undertaking
may depend upon the due accomplishment of the adventure or voyage, or
the entire time be required to put the partnership into. beneficial operation.'
In Gerard v. Gateau, 84: Illinois, 121, Mr. Justice Scott, delivering the
opinion of the court, said: 'A party who is the author of the ill feeling
between. himself and partners ought not to be permitted to make the
relation he has induced, the ground of a dissolution of the partnership.
His conduct may have beeh taken with a view to that very result, and it
would be inequitable to allow him advantage from his own wrongful acts.
It would allow one partner, at his election, to put an end to his own
deliberate c6ntract, when the other has beei guilty of no wrongful act or
omission of duty. The results flowing from a premature dissolution of a
partnership might be most disastrous to a partner who had embarked his
capital in the enterprise.' So in Henn v. Walsh, 2 Edw. Ch. 129, the vice
chancellor said: 'A partnership agreement, like any other, is binding upon
the parties; and they must adhere to its terms. Neither partner is at liberty to recede from it against the will of the other, without a sufficient
cause. Mere dissatisfaction by one partner will not justify him in filing a
bill for a dissolution where, by the express agreement, it is to continue for
a definite term; and this court will not interfere to dissolve the contract
upon such ground.'
"The views thus expresped have the apparent support of most elementary writers, and seem to .be in conformity with the doctrine prevailing in
England. The contrary doctrine, if not indefensible, is founded on reasons
exceedingly-artificial. It is based on the ground that one partner has the
right to found his claim, real or otherwise, to immediate safety and indemnity, on an obvious injury to the interests and rights of another, which is
alike inequitable and unjust; and we think it is not supported by the

'KARRICK v. HANNAMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

been dissolved by the acts of the defendant; but that, as each
partner was permitted by those articles to draw out of the
partnership $125 a month for personal expenses, the defendant should have been allowed tile sum of -$3000 as personal
expenses for the two years during which he conducted the.
business of the firm*; and that the judgment should be modified by deducting one half of this sum, and, so modified, be
affirmed for the sum of .$10,540.53.
9 Utah, 236.
The
defendant appealed to this court.
-1r. . . ilson for appellant. Mrt. J. G. Sutherland,
.Mr. A. Howat and .MP. C. W. Bennett were on his brief.
Mrb'. Joseph L. Rawlins for appellee.
liams was on his brief.
M .

JUSTICE

GRAY,

Mr. Parley L. Wil-

after stating the case, delivered" the

opinion of the court.
Much of the argument for the appellant was devoted to a
discussion of conflicting evidence, which is not open to examination by this court, its authority upon appeal from the
Supreme Court of a Territory being limited to the question
whether the facts found by that court support its judgment.
aws v. Yictoria Co., 160 U. S. 303; Harrison v. Perea,
ante, 311.
The principal question of law discussed in the-opinion of
the Supreme Court of the Territory, and at the argument in
this court, was ivhether a partnership, which by the -copartnership articles is to continue for a specified time, can be
dissolved by one partner at his own will without the assent
of the other before the expiration of that time.
It is universally conceded that a contract of partnership,
containing no stipulation as to the time during which it shall
weight of authority. Story on Partnership, §§ 275, 276; Story Eq. Jur.
§ 673; Lindley on Partnership, [bk. 4, c. 1, (5th ed.)] p. 575, § 2; Ferrero
v. .Buhlmeyer, 34 How. Pract. 33; Pearpointv. Graham, 4 Wash. C. C. 232;
Peacock v. Peacock, 16 Yes. 49; Cash v. Earnshaw,66 fllinois, 402; Van
Kuren v. Trenton Co., 13 N. J. Eq. 302."

334

OCTOBER- TERM, 1897.
Opinion oi the Court.

continue in force, does not endure for the life of the partners,
or of either of -them, nor for any longer time than their
mutual consent, .but may be dissolved by either partner at
. his own will at any time. Peacock v. Peacock, 16 Yes. 49;
Crawshay v. Afaule, 1 Swanst. 495; Nelson v. Mos8end iron
Co., 11 App. Cas. 298; 3 Kent Com. 53; Story on Partnership, § 269.
Upon the question how far the status or relation of a partnership, which by the partnership agreement is to continue
for a certain number of years, can be determined by on6 partner without the consent of the other before .the expiration of
that time, there has been some difference of opinion.
The principal reasons and authorities in favor of the position that a contract of partnership for a definite time cannot
be dissolved at the mere will of one partner are stated or
referred to in the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory in this case, reported in 9 Utah, 236.
Those which support the opposite view may be summed up
as follows: A contract of partnership is one by which two
or more persons agree to carry on a business for their common benefit, each contributing property or services, and having a community of ihterest in the profits. It is in effect a
contract of mutual agency, each partner acting as a principal
in his own behalf and as agent for his copartner. .Meehan
v. Falentine, 145 U. S. 611. Every partnership creates a
personal relation between the partners, rests upon their mutual consent, and exists between them only. Without their
agreement or approval, no third person -can become a member
of the partnership, either-by act of a single partner, or by
operation of law; and the death or bankruptcy of a partner
dissolves the partnership. 3 Kent Com. 25, 55, 58; Wilkins
v. Da'is,2 Lowell, 511. So an absolute assignment by one
partner of all his interest in the partnership to a stranger
dissolves the- partnership, although it does not make the
assigfiee a tenant in common with the other partners in the
partnership property, Bank'v. Carb'lton Railroad,11 Wall.
624, 628; Harquand v. New York .Manuf. Co., 17 Johns.
525, 528, 535. No partnership can efficiently or beneficially

KARRICK v. HANIZAMAe.
Opinion of the Court.

carry on its business without the mutual confidence and cooperation of all the partners. Even when, by the partnership
articles, they have covenanted with each other that the partnership shall continue for a certain period, the partnership
may be dissolved at any time, at the will of any partner, so
far as to put an end to the partnership relation and to the
authority of each partner to act for all; but rendering the
partner who breaks his covenant liable to an action at law
for damages, as in other cases of breaches of contract. Sklinner v. Dayton, 19 Johns. 513, 538; 3 Kent Com. 54, 55, 62;
Cape Sable Co.'s Case, 3 Bland, 606, 674; Monroe v. Conner,
15 Maine, 178, 180; Mason v. Connel, 1 Whart. 381, 388;
Semmer's A_.peal, 58 Penn. St. 168, 176; Blake v. -Dorgan,
1 Greene (Iowa), 537, 540; Solomon v. Kirkwood, 55 Mich.
256, 259, 260. According to the authorities just cited, the
only difference, so far as concerns the right of dissolution by
one partner, between a partnership for an indefinite period
and one for a specified term, is this: In the former- case, the
dissolution is no breach of the partnership agreement, and
affords the other partner no ground of complaint. In the
latter case, such a dissolution before the expiration of the time
stipulated is a breach of the agreement, and as such to be
compensated in damages.

But in either case the

,ction

one partner does actually dissolve the partnership.
A court of equity, doubtless, will not assist the

of

partner
breaking his contract to procure a dissolution of the partnership, because, upon familiar principles, a partner who has not
fully and fairly performed the partnership agreement on his
part has no standing in a court of equity to enforce any rights
under the agreement. Marble Co. v. Ripley, 10 Wall. 339,
358. But, generally speaking, neither will it interfere at
the suit of the other partner to prevent the dissolution,
because, while it may compel the execution of articles of
partnership so as to put the parties in the same position as
if the articles had been executed as agreed, it will seldom, if
ever, specifically compel subsequent performancd of the contract by either party, .the contract of partnership being of
an essentially personal character. Batten on Specific Per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion.-of the Court.

formance, 165-167; Lindley on 'Partnership, bk. 3, c. 10, § 4;
Pomeroy on Specific, IRrformanuce, § 290; Scott v. Rayment,
L* R. 7"Eq. 112;- Stterthwait 'V. .Marshall, 4 Del. Ch. 337,
354 ; Reed v.-VidaZ, 5 Rich. Eq. 289; Somerby v. Buntin, 118
Mass.- 279, 287. Especially where, by the partnership agreement, as in the case at bar, the defendant is to. supply all or
most of the capital, and the plaintiff is to furnish his personal
services the agreement cannot be specifically enforced against
the plaintiff, and will not be enforced against the defendant.
Stocker v. IVedderburn, 3 K. & 1. 393, 404; Buck v. Smith,
29 Michigan, 165.
In the somewhat analogous case of a contract of hiring and
service,, it is well settled that a court of equity cannot compel
the performance of the service, although- it may in some cases
enforce a negative stipulation not to serve any third person
within the time agreed. -Dietrichsenv. Cabburn, 2 Phil. Ch.
52,' 59, and cases cited; Lumley v. Wagner, 1 D. Mll. & G.
604; Wolverhamiaton & Walsall Raiway v. London & Northwestern Railway, L. R. 16 Eq. 433, 446; Whitwood Chemical
Co. v. Hardman, (1891) 2 Oh. 416; Davis v. Foreman, (1894)
3 Ch. 654; 13 Law Quarterly Review, 306; Tobey v. Bristol,
3 Story, 800, 824.
We are not prepared, therefore, tb assent to the opinion of
the court below that a partnership for a definite time cannot
be dissolved by one partner at his own will, and without the
consent of his copartner, within that time; and consequently
that the partnership between these parties was not dissolved
on February 1, 1888, when the defendant assumed exclusive
possession and control of the business and property of the
partnership, and excluded the plaintiff from any participation
therein. But it is unnecessary to express an opinion upon this
point,, because, however it. might be decided, it would not
affect the conclusion in favor of the plaintiff in the preseit
case.
Even if the partnership should be considered as having been
actually dissolved at that date, yet the dissolution did not put
an end to the plaintiff's right -to his share in the property and
the profits of the partnership. In a case in which both parties,

KARRICK v., HANNAMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

in their pleadings, assumed the partnership to have been dissolved, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, held that
drunkenness and dishonesty on the part of one partner and his
consequent exclusion from the business did not authorize his
copartner, "of his own motion, to treat the partnership as
ended and to take himself allthe benefits.of their joint labors
and joint property," or exempt him from responsibility to account to the excluded partner. Amaler v. Whipple, 20 Wall.
546, 555, 55ti. And in a later case, the court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Woods, said: "However' the question may be decided, whether one partner may by his own mere will dissolve
a partnership formed for a definite purpose or period, it is
clear that upon such a dissolution one partner cannot appropriate to himself all the partnership assets, or turn over the
share of his partner to another with whom he proposes to
form a new partnership." Pearce v. -Ham,113 T. S. 585, 593.
A partner who assumes to dissolve the partnership, before
the end of the term agreed on in the partnership articles, is
liable, in an action at law against him by his copartner for the
breach of the agreement, to respond in damages for the value
of the profit which the plaintiff would otherwise have received. Bagley v. Smith, 10 N. Y. 489 ; Dennis v. .Maxfmed,
10 Allen-, 138. In a court of. equity, a partner who, after a
dissolution of the partnership, carries on the business with the
partnership property is liable, at the election of the other partner or his representative, to account for the profits thereof,
subject to proper allowances. Ambler v..Whivple, and Pearce
v. Eam, above cited; .Iartman v. Wroehr, 3 0. E. Green (18
N. J. Eq.), 383; Freeman v. Freeman, 136. Mass. 260; .olmes
v. Gilman, 138 N. Y. 369; 3 Kent Com. 61.
In the case at bar, by the terms of the agreement in Writing, dated February 3, 1886, under which the partnership was
formed, it was to continue for five years, that is to say, until
February 3, 1891; the plaintiff was to contribrute $5000, and
the defendant $20,000, to the capital; the defendant lent the
plaintiff the sum of $5000, -for which the plaintiff gave his
promissory note, payable at the ehd of the five years; the plaintiff' was to have the general management of the business; each
VOL. cLxV ni-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion- of the Cout.

-

partner might draw out not exceeding $125 a month for personal expenses; the profits afid losses. were to. be shared
equally, and neither partner was to have any other compensation for services*; and their title ih the partnersbip property
was to be in proportion- to their contributions to-the capital.
By the facts found by the courts of the Territory, it appears
that the business was -carried on, according to the agreement,
for two years, or until February 1, 1888 ;- that the defendant
then took exclusive possession of the' pioperty and the business
of the partnership, .and thenceforth carried on the business
profitably and for his own benefit, and excluded the plaintiff
from a ny-participation in the business or the profits, although
the plaintiff was, as he informed the"defendant, ready and willing to perform his part of the partnership agreement; and. the
defendant on January 1, 1.890, a Year before-the expiration of.
the term agreed on, .and without the plaintiff's knowledge or
assent, sold out and delivered to a stranger all the property of
the partnership.
The judgment of the coitrt of first instance charged the
defendant with the ainount, of capital paid by the plaintiff
into. the partnership, deducting, however, the whole amount
of the plaintiff's promissory note payable to the defendant at
the .end of the term of five years; and further charged the
defendant with half of the net profits of ihe business during
the two years that he carried it on after ousting the plaintiff.
and before selling out to a stranger, and with, half of the
wrongful disbursements of the defendant afterwards. The
Supreme Court of the Territory, affirming the judgment in
other respects, held that, as by the agreement of. paitnership
each partner was permitted to draw out a certain sum monthly
for personal expenses, the defendant was entitled to such an
allowance monthly for the two years during Wvhich he conducted the business, and the same should be deducted from
the profits to be accounted for, and the judgment in favor of
the plaintiff reduced accordingly. The court made no'such
allowance to the plaintiff. And, in accordance .with the partnership articles, neither partner was allowed any compensation for his services other than his half of the profits.

WARNER v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.

339

Syllabus.

It does not appear to have been suggested by the defendant
in either of the courts of the Territory, and could not successfully be contended, that in estimating the damages or the
profits which the plaintiff was entitled to recover, any deduction should be made by reason of his not having performed during those two years the services, as manager of
the business, which he had agreed by the partnership articles
to. perform. No finding as to the value of such services was
made or requested; and the defendant himself, not only refused to let the plaintiff, as he offered to do, perform them
during those two years, but, in his answer and at the hearing before the referee, insisted that the plaintiff's services as
manager were of no benefit to the partnership.
The result is that, whether the partnership should or should
not be considered to have been dissolved when the defendant
ousted the plaintiff and assumed the exclusive possession and
control of the property and business of the partnership, the
defendant has shown no ground for reversing or modifying
the final decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory.
Decree affirmed.

WARNER v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 82. Argued November 1, 2, 1897. -Decided

November 29,1897.

This was an action to recover for the death of plaintiff's testator, caused by
a train striking him while crossing the track of defendant's road. The
results of the evidence at the trial are condensed in the statement of the
case, below, which cannot well be abridged. Upon them the court below ordered a verdict and judgment in defendant's favor. Held, that the
peremptory instruction by the trial court and the affirmance of its action
by the appellate court manifestly proceeded not on the theory that, as a
matter of law, there was no negligence on the part of the defendant,
but that the proof of contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff
was so conclusive as to leave no question for the consideration of thejury;

-

