)CTOBER . TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

ZIA, Pueblo of v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 5 " Argued October 12, 189T.- Decided November 15, 1891.

An officer of the Pueblo of Zia and an officer of the Pueblos of Santa Aria
and Jemez, in 1766, petitioned the Spanish governor and captain general,
setting forth" that they, from their foundation, have considered as their
pasture ground, in the vicinity of their said pueblos, a valley commonly
called the Holy Ghost Spring, and that in some urgent cases, the same
as is known, Is used as a pasture ground for the horses of this royal
garrison, and the said parties being aware that the said valley has had,
-in its vicinity, some applicants to acquire the same by grant, which will
cause them very great injury, as they have considerable cattle, sheep,
goats and horses for the royal service, and not having any other place
in which to pasture them, particularly the people' of the Pueblo of Zia,
the greater part of whose fields are upland, and some of them in the
glens of said valley, adjoining their said pueblo," and asking him to "be
pleased to declare said valley to be the legitimate pasture grounds and
pastures of the pueblos, directing that the boundaries thereof be designated-to them, that is, on the east, the pueblos aforesaid, on the west,
the summits of the Puerco River, on the north, a place called the Ventana,
where some Navajo Apaches reside, and on the south, the lands of the
citizen settlers of said Puerco River." On receipt of this petition the
captain general ordered an examination to be made, and, upon the doming
in of a favorable report, ordered the alcalde to give royal possession of
the grant to the petitioners and the boundaries therein set forth. Held,
that the language used in the documents indicated nothing more than a
right to pasture their cattle upon the lands in question; that the grant
did not vest the title to the lands in the petitioners, but was a mere
license to use them for pasturage, which license, if- not revoked by subsequent grants, 'was revoked by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, ceding
the entire territory to the United States; and that the title to the land
was not one "lawfully and regularly derived from the government of
Spain,". nor "one that if not then complete and perfect at the date of
the acquisition of the territory by the United States the claimant had a
lawful right to make perfect, had the territory not been acquired by the
United States," as provided for in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, creating
the Court of Private Land Claims.

Tis was a petition by the Pueblos of Zia, Santa Aia and
for the confirmation of what is known as the Ojo del
Espiritu Santo grant, containing about 382,849 acres.
The testimonio, or official copy of the proceedings, opens
J emez

ZIA, Pueblo of v, UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

with the following petition to the governor and captain
general, presented in 1766, by Felipe Tafoya, as the agent
of these pueblos:
"His excellency the governor and captain general:
"I, Felipe Tafoya, lawyer of this town 5f Santa F6, appear
before your excellency in full legal form, for and in the name
of Cristoval, Indian governor of the Pueblo of Zia, and Thomas,
chief war captain of said pueblo, who come under appointment from their casique, and of the other inhabitants of their
Republic, and, sir, in the name of the aforenamed, and of the
community of the Pueblos of Santa Aia and of Jemez, do
state that they, from their foundation, have considered as
their pasture ground, in the vicinity of their said pueblos,
a valley commonly called the Holy Ghost Spring, and that in
some urgent cases, the same as is known, is used as a pasture
ground for the horsls of this royal garrison, and the said
parties being aware that the said valley has had, in its
vicinity, some applicants to acquire the same by grant, which
will cause them very great injury, as they hav& considerable
cattle, sheep, goats and horses for the royal service, and not
having any other place in which to pasture them, particularly
the people of the Pueblo of Zia, the greater part of whose
fields are upland, and some of them in theglens of said
valley, adjoining their said pueblo. In consideration of all
of which, I ask and pray that your excellency, in the name
of His Mfajesty, (whom may God preserve,) be pleased to declare said valley to be the legitimate pasture grounds and
pastures of the pueblos, directing that the boundaries thereof
be designated to them, that is, on the east, the pueblos aforesaid, on the west, the summits of the Puerco River, on the
north, a place called the Ventana, where some Navajo Apaches
reside, and on the south, the lands of the citizen settlers of
said Puerco River, and, should your excellency order to be
done as I have requested, the said parties, my clients, will
receive grace. with the justice which I ask, and declare in
their name. that this is not in dissimulation, and so forth.
"FrUpE T.AFoYA."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897'.
Statement of the Case.

Upon the receipt of this petition and on June 16, 1766,
Yelez Cq chupin, governor and captain general, made an order
commissioning the chief alcalde of said pueblos, Bartolom6
Fernandez, "to the end that, having examined the bounda-

ries which they mentioned as of the Holy Ghost Spring, where
they state they pasture their stock and horses, he reports to
me the leagues the same may embrace from north to south
and from east to west, and whether the aforesaid three
pueblos have the cattle, sheep, goats*and horses proportional
to the boundaries asked for their grazing, and also whether
or not any citizen or citizens are damaged by said boundaries
under any prior valid grant and possession held by them,
which the said chief alcalde will perform with all possible
veracity."
Fernandez reported that he proceeded to examine the lands
and their boundaries, and after establishing the quantity,
found that they were "only suitable for pasturing live stock,
which is abundant at said pueblos, though the said three
republics have no other lands on which to .ustain their stock,
and it being, as it is true, that none of the aforementioned
boundaries will injure any one holding or to hold possession of landi within' the same, which proceedings I- placed
on record," etc.
Upon this report the captain general made the following
decree:
'In the town of Santa F6, on the sixth day of the month
of- August, one thousand seven hundred and sixty-six, I,
Thomas Yelez Cachupin, governor general of this kingdom
of New Mexico, in view of what is petitioned for by the three
Pueblos of Santa Afla, Zia and Jemez, of the Queres nation,
and of the. report which their chief alcalde, Bartolom6 Fernandez, makes, that they have held said lands for their live
stock, which at present is abundant, without having any other
places in which to pasture them, except those referred to in
their petition, together with the small watering places mentioned in, said report, declare that I would grant, and I did
grant, in the nam- of His Majesty (God preserve him), the

ZIA, Pueblo of v. UlITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

aforesaid lands for pasturing the stock and horses of the aforesaid three Pueblos of Santa Aia, Zia and Jemez, with the
boundaries, from north to south, from the place Ventana to
the stone ford of the Puerco River, the boundaries also of the
citizens of the place San Fernando of lNuestra Sefiora de la
Luz; and from east to west, from the Pueblo of Zia to the
said Puerco River, the eastern edge, the whole of the valley
of the Holy Ghost Spring being embraced within the centre
and within the boundaries of this grant, with the condition
and stipulation: .that in case of necessity the hbrses of this
royal garrison of Santa F6 may, and shall be, kept in said
valley, the same being a place where they have been accustomed to graze; wherefore the aforementioned three pueblos
are to place no obstacle in the way, nor claim damage therefor; and the aforementioned boundaries being for the future
considered those of the aforementioned three pueblos, they
will hold the same with legitimate title under this royal grant,
so that they be not molested by any Spanish citizen or citizens, taking their stock thereupon, deeming the pasturage to
'be common. And I direct the chief alcalde, Bartolom6 Fernandez, to go and give to the aforementioned three pueblos
royal possession of this grant, and the boundaries therein set
forth, taking with him the justices and seniors of each one
of them, and placing his proceedings on record, following this
my granting decree, which he will return to me, in order to
furnish to each pueblo the proper testimonio of 'the whole,
apd deposit the original in the archives of this government,
where it shall -remain.
"And -Iso provided, granted, ordered and signed, acting
with two attending witnesses in the absence of notaries, there
being none of any kind in this jurisdiction.
"TirowAs V;LEZ CAOoupiN.
"Witness: OCALos FERxANDEZ.
"Witness: DOMNGO SABADIA"

In compliance with this decree of the governor and captain
general, Bartolom6 Fernandez, the alcalde, made report to
the governor that he proceeded to the aforementioned pueblos,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
mratemeut of the Case.

and, in company with the governors, casiques and other
authorities, proceeded to the lands asked for- by the natives
of the said three republics, and summoning the contiguous
land holders, took by the hand the aforesaid governors and
the magistrates, "and conducted them over said land; and they
shouted ' Long life to the King, our sovereign, whom may God
preserve,' and they cast stones, and pulled up grass, in sign of
possession, which I gave them, and which'they received quietly
and peaceably, -without any opposition whatever, under the
conditions mentioned in the aforesaid grant," etc.
The claim was presented to the surveyor general under the
law of July 22, 1854, and through the Secretary of the Interior reported to Congress for confirmation, but no action was
ever taken. The petitioners also produced evidence tending
to show that since the date of the grant they have been continuously and openly in possession of thle property, pasturing
their cattle upon it and cultivating certain portions, under a
claim of exclusive right thereto by virtue of the grant; that
they are now in the open and notorious occupation of the
same as the owners in fee, except a portion of it which may
be in conflict with a certain grant called the Santissima Trinidad Galvana Ignacio Sanchez Veraga tract, in regard to which
they admit they have released the same unto the claimants
thereof. The continuity and exclusiveness of this possession
were denied by the witnesses produced by the Government.
In defence it was.shown by the Government that three subsequent grants were made, one in 1815 to Luis Maria Cabeza
de Baca, known also as the Ojo del Espiritu Santo grant;
another in 1786, known as the San Isidro grant, and another
made 1798, known as the Caion de San Diego grant, in
connection with which parol evidence was admitted to show
a conflict between these grants and that of the petitioners to
a large, if not to the entire, extent of their grant.
Upon this state of facts the Court of Private Land Claims
made a decree rejecting the grant, and dismissing the petition
of petitioners upon the ground that the grant was not in fee,
but a license to pasture. From this decree the petitioners
appealed to this court.-

ZIA, Pueblo of v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Jfr. Benry -M. Ear7e for appellants.
.Mr. -Matthew G. Reynolds for appellees.

-Mr. Solicitor

General was on his brief.
]n. JusTioE Buoww, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The main question in this case is whether the language of
'the documents, which make up the teatimonio, indicates anything more than the grant of a right to these pueblos to
pasture their cattle upon the lands in question - a right
somewhat akin to the right of common under the English
law, and one which appears to have been frequently granted
under the Spa-iish law. "United States v. Htuertas, 8 Pet.
475; United States v. Davenport's Heirs, 15 How. 1.
The words of the several documents set forth in the testimorno certainly favor this interpretation: Thus, in the petition, there is no application for a grant of vacant land for
cultivation and pasturage, as is usual in this class of cases,
but a statement that the pueblos "have considered as their
pasture ground in the vicinity of their pueblos, a valley commonly called the Holy Ghost Spring," (which, it seems, had
been used in some cases as the pasture ground for the horses
of the royal garrison,) and that some applicants were desirous
of acquiring the same by public grant, '"which" *ill cause
them very great injury, as they have c6nsiderable cattle,
sheep, goats and horses for the royal service," and have no
other place in which to pasture them. There was no claim
of a grant of the lands, such as the other applicants were
seeking to acquire, but a- request to have them co'nsidered as
tiheir pasture ground, and as the pasture ground for the horses
of the royal garrison. The prayer bears out this constructi6n
of the statement of the petition. It asks, not for a grant of
the land, but that his excellency will "be pleased to declare
said valley to be the legitimate pasture grounds and pastures
of the pueblos," directing a designation of their boundaries,
etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The order of the captain general upon this petition and the
report of the chief alcalde are addressed only to the ascertainment of the boundaries, and to the fact whether there was
any other prior grantee in possession, and throw but little
light upon the granting act.
The final grant or decree, however, states that the captain
general granted the aforesaid lands "for pasturing the stock
and horses of the aforesaid three pueblos," designating the
boundaries, and With the stipulation that in case of necessity
the horses of the royal garrison of Santa F6 might be kept
in the valley where they had been accustomed to graze, and
decreed that the aforementioned three pueblos "will hold the
same, with legitimate title, under this royal grant, so that
they be not molested by any Spanish citizen or citizens, taking
their stock thereupon, deeming the'pasturage to be common."
The alcalde was further directed to give royal possession of
the grant which he certifies in the act of possession that he
did by taking by the hand the governors and war captains of
the pueblos with their magistrates, and conducting them over
the land, and making a livery of seizin by shouting "Long
life to the King, our sovereign, (whom may God preserve,)"
and casting stones and pulling up grass in sign of possession,
"which I gave them and which they- received quietly and

peaceably without any opposition whatever, under the conditions mentioned in the aforesaid grant," and, subsequently,
attesting these formalities with witnesses.
There is nothing in any of these instruments to indicate
that the pueblos desired, or that the governor intended to
grant anything beyond a common, whereon the inhabitants
of the pueblos might pasture their stock in conformity with
ancient usage. When it is considered that the valley was
already used as a pasture ground for the horses of the royal"
garrison, it is to be inferred that the rights of these pueblos
were practically the same as those of the royal garrison, and
were not intended to involve a conveyance of a fee of the
land. It is true that by the common law of England, livery
of seizin was only necessary to be made upon the granting of
an estate of freehold, either of inheritance or for life, (2 Bl.

ZIA, Pueblo of v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of 'the Court.

Com. 314;) but, under Spanish law, it seems to have been a
feature commonly connected with the delivery of possession
of the land, though to what extent is somewhat uncertain.
The granting clause is not in the usual form of a grant of
vacant lands to the grantee for cultivation and pasturage
upon condition of 'actual possession for a number of years.
Nor are there any words indicating an intentidn to pass a fee
simple, such as found in some of the Spanish grants, para
adguirir l.gitimo dereaho de propiedad y segorio, "in order
to acquire legitimate right of property and dominion." These
words, n'opiedad y 8etorio, carry.the idea of 'complete ownership, and seem to be practically the same as the words "fee
simple" under the common law.
Upon the contrary, the grant in question provides that the
grantees "shall hold the same with legitimate right" of possession ()ara que ,opoeean con derecio Mgitimo) "under this
royal grant, so that they be not molested by any Spanish
citizen taking their stock thereon, deeming the pasture to be
common." It would seem to have been the intention of the
governor by these words to vest the pueblos simply with
the right to the use of the lands without intending to estop
himsel, or his successors, from making a subsequent disposition
of the same by a grant in fee. This construction is also borne
out by the fact that within a few years thereafter a grant
was made of the entire tract to other parties. As remarked in
the opinion of the court below, "it seems quite unreasonable
to. suppose that, if this area in controversy had been granted
as an estate in fee to the land, the same granting authority
would have deliberately granted a portion of the same land to
a third party only twelve years after the former grant, repeat
a like act in 1815 and afterwards, and that, too, of land situate
near the capital, grazed upon by the royal horses of the capital
garrisoh, and the. local alcalhle directed in every case to report
officially whether the land proposed to be granted waq unoccupied, or that the grant would be to the injury of third parties.
This grant was prayed solely as a pasturage right; it seems
to have been granted for that purpose alone, and it appears
that the governor afterwards treated it as such, and disposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of the paramount title to a large part of the land upon the
same view."
In the absence of direct testimony it is somewhat 'difficult
to ascertain with precision the laws of Spain with respect
to grants of pueblo lands; but in 2 White's New Recopilacion, 254, it is stated by Nicholas Garrido, apparently acting
for the Duke of Alagon, in a communication addressed to the
governor of Florida, that "the concession of a great extent of
land for the rearing and pasture of cattle, constitutes no more
than the usufruct of it, for the time agreed upon, but the
grantee has not, nor never had, the most remote right to
solicit the proprietorship, for there is no law or regulation
upon which to found it, and consequently the land does not
go out of the class of public lands, since it is the same as if
it were held on rent. Those who have obtained those concessions as recompense for services are in the same class with
the others, and can allege no other right, than what is extended to -all those who have suffered losses, and faithfully
followed the cause of his majesty", From the correspondence, of which this opinion was a part, and which was
considered by this court in United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436,
459, it would seem that there was a recognition by the governor and civil authorities of Florida of a distinction between
absolute grants of land and "allotments of land made for
raising cattle, which may not have titles of proprietorship,"
(2 White, 252,) the latter of which did not vest in the grantee
the ownership of the lands. Certainly if a grant in these
terms were made in a State in which the common law
prevails, it would be treated simply as a license to pasture,
terminable at the Will of either party. Such information as
we are able to obtain regarding the law of Spain favors a
like interpretation of this grant.
The evidence of possession in this case was perfectly consistent with the grant, which on its face vested the pueblos
with such possession, and besides, the testimony was of such
a vague and contradictory character as to throw but little
light upon the nature of the occupation.
The case of Tnited States v. Huertas, 8 Pet. 475, relied upon

ZIA, Pueblo of v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by the petitioners, seems rather to bear against them. It is
said by Chief Justice Marshall, in his brief opinion, that the
governor in his decree making the concession states his own
knowledge of the facts set forth in the petition, namely, the
many and great services rendered to the government in an
insurrection. He grants the ten thousand acres with the
precise condition to use the same for the purpose of raising
cattle, "without having the faculty of alienating the said
tract without the knowledge of this government"; but, he
adds, that on the 20th of July, 1816, three years'after the
concession, Governor Coppinger granted a complete 'title to
this land, re'citing the decree made by Governor Kindelan,
and the boundaries of the land. It was this second grant
which evidently fixed the title of the grantee, notwithstanding the limitations of the prior grant.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the court below was
correct in holding that the grant in question did not vest the
title to the land in the petitioners, but was a mere license to
use them for pasturage, and that such license, if not revoked
by the subsequent grants, was revoked by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, beding this entire territory to the United States;
Wallis v. Earrison,4 M. & W. 538; Cook v. Sterns, 11 Mass.
533; Harrisv. Gillingham, 6 N. 7. 9; Cowles v. .idder, 24
N. H. 364%379 ; J'lais&ellv. Portsmouth, Great Falls &c. Railroad, 51 k. H. 483; Coleman v. .Foster,1 Hurl. & Norm. 37;
S. C. 37 E. L. & E. 489; Prince v. Case, 10 Connecticut, 375;
and that in the language of ยง 13 of the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 539, 26 Stat. $54, creating the Court of Private Land Claims,
the title to the land in question was not one "lawfully and
regularly derived from the government of Spain," or "one
that if not then complete and perfect at the date of the acquisition of the territory by the United States, the claimant had
a lawful right to make perfect, had the territory not been
acquired by the United States."
The decree of the court below is therefore
-Afi~med.

