OCTOBER1 TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

There is no statute of the United States under which
Worden could, on the alleged facts, have been prosecuted for
murder in the courts of the United States. He was convicted
of that crime in the administration of the laws of California,
Penal Code, Cal. § 187, 188, 189; §§ 17, 587; and the conviction has been sustained by the highest court of the State.
As indicating that the prosecution was in tlie ordinary
course, the language of that court in the opinion delivered
on affirming the judgment may not improperly be quoted.
Among other things the court said: "The charge fully informed the jury that an intent to take human life is a necessary element of murder in tho first degree. They were told.
that in order to convict the appellant of murder in the first
degree they must be convinced beyond a reasonable doubt
.that the appellant, either personally or in concert with others,
killed the deceased with malice aforethought by som6 kind of
wilful, deliberate and premeditated killing, and that 'in order
to constitute murder in the first degree, the intent to kill
must be the result of deliberate premeditation.' This principle was given to the jury in various forms; and it is beyond
question that the evidence abundantly warranted .the jury in
finding the appellant guilty of murder in the first degreemurder of a most aggravating ahd shocking character. There
was an unnecessary allusion to the fact that the derailing of a
train "s a felony; but that in no way changed the general
nature of the charge." 113 California, 569, 576.
No ground existed on which the Circuit Court could have
held these proceedings void, and the writ was properly denied.
Order afirmeZ.
CONDE v. YORK.
.ERROR TO THE SUPREME
1o. 143.

COURT

OF

THE

Argued December 6, 1897. -Decided

STATE OF

NEW

YORK.

January $, 1898.

In order to give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of a state
court-against a title or right set up or claimed under a statute of, or an
authority exercise d under, the United States, that title or right must be

CONDE v. YORK.
Statement of the Case.
a title or right of the plaintiff in error and not of a third person only; and
the statute or authority must be directly in issue. In this case the controversy was merely as to which of the claimants had the superior
equity in the fund; the statute was only collaterally involved; and
plaintiffs in error asserted no right to the money based upon it.

IN September, 1889, Witherby and Gaffney entdred into a
contract with the Government of the United States to construct certain buildings at Sackett's Harbor, New York.
Thereafter they purchased from York and Starkweather
lumber and materials, which were used in the construction of
the buildings, and on March 27, 1890, were indebted on
account of these materials in the, sum of more than $3000.
Being so indebted, Witherby and Gaffney on that date executed and delivered to York and Starkweather an instrument in writing, as follows:
"Whereas we have a contract with the United States Government for the construction of buildings and officers' quarters
at Madison Barracks, Sackett's Harbor, Jefferson County,
N. Y. ;
"And whereas we are indebted to York and Starkweather,
of Watertown, N. Y., in the sum of three thousand dollars
and more on account of materials furnished us by them that
were used in said buildings and quarters;
"And whereas there will be due and payable to us on account of our work, etc., from the Government considerable
sums of money before and on the completion of our said
work;
"Now, therefore, of the moneys due and to become due us
from the said Government, we do hereby for value received
assign and transfer to said York and Starkweather the sum of
three thousand dollars, and do hereby authorize, empower, request and direct Lieutenant J. E. Macklin, R. Q. M. Eleventh
Infantry, U. S. A., through whom payments are made for
such construction, to pay to said York and Starkweather
on our account for such construction the full sum of three
thousand dpllars, as follows: First, $500 from the next estimate and payment due or to become due us,,and the sum of
$2500 on the completion of said work by us, and when the

OCTOBER TERWM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

balance of our contract with the Government becomes due
and payable to us."
On' the seveDth of April, Witherby and Gaffney paid York
and Stdrkweather $500, but no further payment was made by,
them. On May 15, 1890, Lieutenant Macklin., the disbursing
agent of the United States Government at Sackett's Harbor
gave a draft on the Treasury to the amount of $1400 to
Witherby and Gaffney, which was turned over by them on
that day to Conde and Streeter. Before Conde and Streeter received this draft, they had been 'fully notified of the paper
delivered to York and Starkweather, and while the draft was.
in their hands, ,ork , and Starkweather demanded $2500
thereof from them, which they refused to pay or any part
thereof.; Conde and Streeter asserted a prior right to the
draft and moneys in question by virtue of an alleged oral
agreement with Witherby and Gaffney to secure the pay.ment of certain notes upon. which they were liable as indorsers and 'for individual claims they held against, them.
Conde was one of the sureties on Witherlby and Gaffney's
bond to the Government, and it seems to be conceded that
Witherby and Gaffney obtained the money on Conde and
Streeter's accommodation indorsements for the purpose of enabling them to carry on the work under the contract. Conde
and Streeter applied, the money to pay notes to the amount
of $3200 which they had endorsed, and individual claims to
the amount of $600, and about $600 was returned to Witherby.
and Gaffney.
April 16, 1890, Witherby and Gaffney executed to Conde
and Streeter an agreement by which they, promised to pay
off and discharge from the money to be received by them
from the Government certain notes endorsed by Conde gnd
Streeter and certain individual indebtedness held by them
against Witherby and Gaffney. On April 18, Witherby and
Gaffney made a written assignment to.. Conde and Streeter of
sufficient of the rnoney in question to pay the notes and claims
mentioned, in these words: .
"That there may be no misunderstanding, about the intention of the foregoing agreement, we hereby assign for value

CONDE v. YORK.
Opinion of 'the Court.

received to John C. Streeter and Win. W. Conde sufficient of
the moneys coming to us from Lieut. Macklin, IR. Q. M., to
pay the claims as specified in the aforegoing agreement."
York and Starkweather brought suit against Conde" and
Streeter in the Supreme Court of New York for the county of
Jefferson. Two defences were set up -by Conde and Streeter,
the second of which was "that the money, claim and property
claimed by the plaintiffs in this action to have been assigned
to them by Witherby and Gaffney at the time of the pretended assignment thereof, constituted and was a claim against
the United States Government, which had not been allowed,
or the amount due thereon ascertained, or the warrant issued
for the payment thereof, and that the pretended assignment
thereof does not recite the warrant for payment issued by the
United States, and is not acknowledged by the person making the same before an office having authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and is not certified by such officer;
and that said pretended assignment is in violation of the laws
of the United States and of the State of New York, and that
the plaintiffs never derived any interest in the said contract
with the United States by virtue of the said pretended assignment or otherwise, and are not the real parties in interest in
this action and ought not therefore to maintain the same;
that said Witherby and Gaffney never transferred any interest
in the said contract to the said plaintiffs?'
The trial resulted in a verdict in favor of York and Starkweather, upon which judgment was entered, which was affirmed by the gefieral term, and that judgment affirmed by
the Court of Appeals. York -v.Conde, 147 N. Y. 486. A
writ of error was then allowed from this court.
Mr.E~on R. Brown for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. Henry Purcell for defendants in error.
MR.

CHiEF JUSTICe. FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error contended in the courts below that they
were entitled to the fund in question by virtue of an oral

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
,Opinioii of the Court.

transfer prioi to the assignment to defendants in error, and of
the writings executed subsequently thereto; and that defendants in error acquired no right to the fund by their assignment
because such assignment was in violation of section 3477 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States. But they did not
claim that they acquired any right or title to the fund by
reason of that section, nor was its validity questioned in any
way.
In delivering the opinion of the Court of Appeals of New
York, its able and experienced Chief Judge said:
"The claim set up by the defendants in their answer, that
prior to the assignment to the plaintiffs, Witherby and Gaffney
had verbally assigned to them the money to become due on
the contract, as security for their indorsements, was tried
before the jury and found against them and need notbe
further considered. There can be no doubt that under the
general rule of law prevailing in this State the plaintiffs, under
the assignment of March 27, 1890, acquired'an equitable, if
not a legal, title to the money payable on the contract of
Witherby and Gaffney with the Government to the extent of
$3000, aid that the defendants, having acquired possession
of the draft for the final payment on the contract, by delivery
from Witherby and Gaffney, to secure an antecedent liability,
on being notified of the claim of the plaintiffs, held the draft
and the fund it represented, as trustee of the plaintiffs, to the
extent of their claim. Field v. -Mayor, c., 6 N. Y. 179;
-Devlin v. Xfayor, &c., 63 Id. 8.
"But the contention is that the plaintiffs took nothing under
the assignment to them, because, as is claimed, the transaction
was void under section 3477 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, to which reference has been made. That jsection is as follows: 'All transfers and assignments made of
any claim upon the United States, or of any part or share
thereof, or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and
whatever may b'e the consideration therefor, and all powers of
attorney, orders or other authorities for receiving payment of
any such claim, or of any part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void; unless they are freely made and executed

CON1DE v. YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

in the presence of at least tvo attesting witnesses, after the
allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount

due and the issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof.
Such transfers, assignments and powers of attorney, must
recite the warrant for payment, and must be acknowledged
by the person making them, before an officer having authority
to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall be certified by
the officer; and it must appear by the certificate that the
officer, at the time of the acknowledgment, read and -fully
explained the transfer, assignment or warrant of attorney to
the person acknowledging the same.'
"This section has been considered in several cases by the
Supreme Court of the United States. If that court has construed the section so as to determine the point involved in this
case we should deem it our duty to follow its decision. The
judgment we shall render will not, we suppose, be subject to
review by the Supreme Court. We-do not question the validity of the section in question, nor will our decision affect any
right of the defendants based thereon. Their right, if any,
rests upon the transfer of the draft after it came to the hands
of Witherby and Gaffney. They seek to defeat the right of
the plaintiffs under their prior assignment of a portion of the
fund, and invoke section 3177 to establish that the assignment
was void and conferred no right. But on a question of statutory construction of an act of Congress which has been determined by.the Supreme Court of the United States, subsequently
arising in this court, we should feel bound to adopt and follow
the construction of that tribunal on the principle of comity,
although in a case where the .ultimate jurisdiction is vested in
this court."
Many decisions of this court in respect of section 3&.77 were
then considered, and the conclusion reached that the section
had been so construed as to permit transfers made in the
legitimate course of business, in good faith, to secure an honest
debt, while they might be disregarded by the Government, to
be sustained as between the parties. so far as to enable the
transferees, after the Government had paid over the money to
its contractors, to enforce them against the latter, or those tak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ing with notice. The court held, in effect, that such was the
transaction in the case at bar, and that the transfer to
York and Starkweather was simply to secure them for material actually used by the contractors in performing their contract with the Government, and amounted to nothing more
than the giving of security, and not to the assignment of a
claim to be enforced against the Government. The United
States had, in due course, paid'over the money to the contractors, and between them there was no dispute; -nor had the
United States any concern in the question as to which of the
rival claimants was entitled to the fund, the proper distribution
of which depended on the equities between them. What the
New York courts determined was that the equities of York
and Starkweather were superior to those of Conde and Streeter,
and judgment went accordingly.
In order to give this court jurisdiction to review the judg,
meht of a state court against a title or right set up or claimed
under a statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United
States, that title or right must be a title or right of the plaintiff in error and not a third person only; and the statute or
authority must be directly in issue.' In this case the controversy
was merely as to which of the claimants had the superior
equity in the fund; the statute was only collaterally involved;
and plaintiffs in error asserted no right to the money based
upon it.
In Aldric v. .Etna Corpjany, 8 .Wall. 491, the question
was whether the mortgage of a vessel, properly recorded
under an act of Congress, gave a better lien than an attachment issued under a state statute, and the decision by the
state court was that. it did not. The construction of the act
of Congress and its force and effect as it respected the mortgage security under which defendants claimed a right or
title paramount to that of the attachment creditor was necessarily directly involved, and a proper case for review existed.
In Rail'oadsv. .Rickmond, 15 Wall. 3, in a suit on a contract defendants set up that the contract had been rendered
void and of no force and effect by provisions of the Constitution of the United States and of certain acts of Congress, and

CONDE v. YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

the decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa was adverse to
that defence. The case being brought here, a motion to dismiss the writ of error was denied.
In each of these cases the defence was rested upon a title
or right of defendants specially claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United States, and being adversely disposedof, jurisdiction obtained.
Here no such contention was put forward. The materials
of plaintiffs below had gone into the buildings, while, on the
credit of defendants, money had been raised for their construction. Both held written agreements, from tlie same
source, for the money when.paid over, but that of defendants
below was subsequent in date to the other. Neither asserted
any right under § 34:77.
In lValworth v.. fizeeland, 15 How. 348, it was ruled,
where a case was decided in a state court against a party
who was ordered to convey certain land, and he brought the
case up to this court on the ground that the contract for the
conveyance of the land was contrary to the laws of the United
States, that this was not enough to give jurisdiction to this
court under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The state court decided against him on the ground that -the
opposite party was innocent of all design to contravene the
laws of the United States.. Mr. Chief Justice Taney, however,
said: "But if it had been otherwise, and the state court had'
committed so gross an error as to say that a contract, forbidden by an act of Congress, or against its policy, was not
fraudulent and void, and that it might be enforced in.
a court
of justice, it would not follow, that this writ of error could be
maintained. In order to bring himself within the twentyfifth section of the act of 1789, he must show that he claimed
some right, some interest, which the law recognizes and protects, and which was denied to him in the state court. But
this act of Congress certainly gives him no right to protection
from the consequences of a contract made in violation of law.
Such a contract, it is true, would not be enforced against him
in a court of justice; not on account of his own rights or
merits, but from the want of merits and good conscience in

650

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the party asking the aid of the court. But to support this
writ of error, he must claim a right which, if well founded,
he would be able to assert in a court of justice, upon its own
merits, and by its own strength. No such right is claimed in
the answer of the plaintiff in error. . . . Neither can the
writ-of error be supported on the ground that Walworth was
unable to purchase, at one dollar and twentv-five cents per
acre, another portion of the land mentioned in the contracts,
in consequence of its subsequent cession by the United States
to the, Territory of Wisconsin. Whether that cession, and
the enhanced price at which it was held, absolved him from
the obligation of performing any part of the contract, depended altogether 'upon its construction. The rights of the
parties did not depend on the act of Congress making the
cession, but upon the contract into which they had entered.
Ana the construction of that agreement, and the rights and
obligations of the parties under it, were questions exclusively
for the state court; and over its decree in this respect this
court has no control."
In Jersey City & Bergen Railroad v. 7iorgan, 160 U. S.
288, in an action brought in a state court against a railroad
company for ejecting the plaintiff from a car, the defence
was that a silver coin offered by him in payment of his fare
wai so abraded as' to be no longer legal tender, and that
defence was overruled. And a writ of error having been
sued out by the railroad company from this court to review
the judgment thereupon rendered against it, we held that the
writ could not be maintained.. It was there said: "The
claim which defendant now states it relies on is that the coin
in question was not legal tender under the laws of the United
States. This, however, is only a denial -of the claim by plaintiff that the coin was such, and as, upon the facts determined
by the verdict, the state courts so adjudged, the decision was
in favor of and not against the right thus claimed under the
laws of the United States,, if such a right could be treated as
involved on this record, and this court has no jurisdiction to
".review it. .Missouri v. AAdriano, 138 U. S. 496, and cases
cited. And, although denying plaintiff's claim, defendant did

McHENRY v. ALFORD.
Syllabus.

not pretend to set up any right it had under any statute of
the United States in reference to the effect of reduction in
weight of silver coin by natural abrasion."
Writ of error diamied.

McHENRY v. ALFORD.
CERTIFICATE PO m THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 189. Argued December 2, 8, 489T. -Decided January 8, 1898.

The ruling in United States v. Union Pacific Railroad, 168 U. S. 505, that
each question certified to this court frdn a Circuit Court of Appeals
"had to be a distinct point or proposition of law, clearly stated, so that
it could be distinctly answered without regard to the other issues of law
in the case; ,to be a question of law only and not a question of fact, or
of miked law and fact, and hence could not involve or imply a conclusion
or judgment upon the weight or effect of testimony or facts adduced in
the case, and could not embrace the whole case, even where its decision'
turned upon matter of law only, and even though it was split up in the
form of questions," is affirmed and followed; and, being applied to the
questions certified in this case, makes it necessary for the court to decline to answer the first, the second and the sixth questions.
Chapter 99 of the Laws of the Territory of Dakota of 1883 provided for
the taxation of the lands of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
granted to It by Congress, outside of its right of way and not used in
its business, while owned by the company and not leased, through the
payment of percentages on gross earnings as provided for therein; the
plain meaning of that act being to render the railroad company and all
its property, land grants as well as right of way, free from the payment
of all taxes, excepting to the amount and in the manner described in the
act.
That legislation was not in conflict with the provision in the act*of March 2,
1861, c. 86, 12 Stat. 239, providing that no law "shall be passed impairing
the rights of private property; nor shall any discrimination be made in
taxing different ]inds of property; but all property subject to taxation
shall be in proportion to the value of the property taxed."
It is not necessary to decide whether the act of 1883 conflicts with the Constitution in that it lays taxes upon earnings arising from transportation
of persons and property between different States.
The objection that the act of 1883 violates the Fourteenth Amendment is
untenable.

