ADAMS v. HENDERSON.
Syllabus.

for certain purposes, to take advantage of it in the argument
before the jury. Can it be possible that he may obtain this
advantage, and, having obtained and used it,. insist that,
because of such incompetent testimony, he is entitled to a
reversal of the judgment against him? Wilson v. United
,States, 162 U. S. 613, 624. Who shall say that this defendant,
though at first objecting to any testimony respecting his
statements, yet, after hearing what the witness said, did not
prefer that such testimony remain, as it disclosed that, at the
very first moment he was informed that Brown charged him
with the crime,,he protested that Brown was not in a position where he could see who did the killing? Indeed, for
anything in this record to the contrary, he, when a witness in
his own behalf, may have given the same version of the conversation, and admitted that his statements were voluntarily
made. Who shall say that he did not wish to argue before
the jury. that the claim made of"Brown's inability to see what
took place was not an excuse suggested only by the exigencies
of the trial, but was presented at the iery first moment of the
charge; and if he was willing to let the testimony remain and
!have all the advantage which he could take of it in argument
before the jury, can it be that he can now come to this court
and say "true I did not object to this specific testimony, nor
ask to have it stricken out, *but it was incompetent," and
obtain a reversal on the ground of its admission ?
I dissent, therefore, first, because I think the testimony was
properly received; and, secondly, because no motion was
made to strike it out and no exception taken to its admission.

ADAMS 'v. HENDERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 70. Argued and submitted November 1, 1897. -Decided

December 6,1897.

A. & S: owned a tract of land in a township numbered 5 which was within
the liniits of the Union Pacific Railroad grants and was acquired from
that company after the execution of its mortgages, its deed reserving to

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
the company the exclusive right to prospect for coal and 6ther minerals
on the lands. A. & S. contracted to sell this tract to R. & H., representing that they had a good and indefeasible estate in fee simple in it, and
agreeing to furnish an abstract of title. R. & H. agreed to buy the tract
for a sum named, to be paid partly in cash and partly by notes secured
by mortgage on the property. The deed, mortgage, notes and money
payments were accordingly made and exchanged in supposed compliance
with the agreement, but no abstract of title was furnished. In the deed
and mortgage the laud was by mistake of the scrivener described as
township No. 6 instead of township No. 5. A. & S. had no interest in or
title to land in township No. 6. No patent was ever issued by the Government for land in township No. 5. R. & H., on learning the facts,
demanded the return of the money paid, and of the notes, claiming to
rescindi the contract of sale. A. & S. tendered a deed of the land In
township No. 5. Subsequent to the tender, the Union Pacific Company
released the land from claim under the coal reservation, but not as to
other minerals. Held, that R. & H. were.not bound to accept the deed
tendered, and were entitled to have the contract rescinded, and to receive
back the money paid by them.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Afr. T M. Wilsom for appellants. Mr. John F. Dillonr, .Mr.
E. Ellery Anderson and Mr. P. Z. Williams filed a brief for
same.

21r. Ch]arles C. Richards and .M". James Hf. .Macmillan,
for appellees, submitted on their brief.
MR.Jusrici HARLAN delivered the opinion of thb court.
By a final decree of the District-Court of the Fourth Judicial District of the Territory of. Utah a contract for the sale
of certain land, made March 27, 1890, between L. 8. Adams
and W. N. Shilling on one side, and Edward A. Reed and
H. H. Henderson on' the other side, and three promissory
notes given by the purchasers, together with a mortgage executed by them to secure the payment of such notes, were
adjudged to be null and void.
It was also' adjudged that Henderson and Burgitt- the
latter having become guardian of the person and estate of
Reed who was incapable' of conducting his own affairs - recover of, Adams and Shilling the amount paid by Henderson

ADAMS v.

E, -NDERSON.

Opinion of the Court.

and Reed on the agreed price of the land purchased by them
from Adams and Shilling.
The decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, and the case is here for Teview upon the appeal of
Adams and Shilling.
The material facts out of which the case arises, and which
are embodied in a report of a special master in chancery,'are
as follows:
In March, 1890, Shilling and Adams, in response to an inquiry made by Reed and Henderson, stated that they owned
and had a good, indefeasible title in fee simple to 440 acres of
land lying a few miles west of Ogden City, Weber County,
Utah Territory.
The lands referred to -as was understood by all parties at
the time-were the east half of section nine, township fvtv
north of range two west of the Salt Lake meridian; the south
half of the southwest quarter of said section; and the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of that section.
Reed and Henderson had not at that time seen the land, and
had no knowledge as to the title. But Shilling and Adams
promised that they would furnish an abstract of title. Reed
and Henderson, relying and acting upon the representation
of Adams and Shilling that they had a good and indefeasible estate in fee simple to the lands inquired about, without investigating the title, purchased an undivided two thirds
interest in the 440 acres for the sum of $7333.32, of which
one third was to be paid and was paid in cash, ahd time was
given for the payment of the balance with interest. They
would not have made the lurchase if they had not believed
the above representation as to title to be true.
On the 27th of March, 1890, Reed and Henderson received
from Adams and Shilling a deed of general warranty for the
following land: An undivided two thirds of the east half of
section nine, township 8iX north of range two west of the Salt
Lake meridian, of the south half of the southwest quarter of
that section, and of the northeast quarter of the southwest
quarter of the same section, in Weber County, Utah.
The land contracted for, it will be observed, was in town-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ship ftve, while the land actually conveyed was in township
8n. But the grantors intended by the above deed to convey an undivided two thirds of the land in township five, and
the grantees supposed that. the estate embraced by the conveyance was that which they intended to purchase. But by
mistake of the scrivener, the premises conveyed were described
as lying in township six.
At the time the above deed was received the grantees,.in
addition to the'cash payment of one third 'of the purchase
price, executed two promissory notes payable, to the grantors
for the sum of $214.45, each bearing eight per cent interest,
payable one year. and six months from Maich 26, 1890, and
secured by a mortgage on the premises. But in that mortgage,
by the mistake of -the scrivener who prepared it, the land was
described as'lying in township six. The mortgage was duly
signed, witnessed and-acknowledged, Reed and Henderson, at
the time, fully believing and acting upon the representation
of the grantors as to title,'and paying to the grantors the
iifierest on said notes down to and including "September 26,
1890, which amounted to $180. They also. signed a promissory note of June 26, 1891, payable to the Utah National
Bank of Ogden, Utah, for the sum of $391.10, as the interest
on -the above notes, which were held by the bank. The note
last named was brought into court, and when the final decree
was rendered it was still in court for the defendants.
The plaintiffs Shilling and Adams failed to furnish an abstract of* title;. and Reed and Henderson, having an opportunity to sell the land in 'township.five, and assumiAg that
that -was the land conveyed to and mortgaged back by themselves, procured an abstract on the 3d day of September, 1891.
The above lands in township five are within ten miles of
the line of the Union Pacific .Railroad, and within the limits
of the lands granted to that company by the act of ICongress
of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 1-2 Stat. 489. They lie in a valley
at the base of the Wasatch -Mountains, and had theretofore
been used and cultivated as agricultural lands. But no exploration. or examination has eier' been made on them for
coal or, minerals of any kind or description.

ADAMS v. HENDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

As bearing on the condition of the title to the land in
township five, it may be stated that the Union Pacific Railroad Company twice mortgaged all the lands granted to it
by the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489,
and the act amendatory thereof approved July 2, 1864, c. 216,
13 Stat. 356, one of the mortgages being dated April 16, 1867,
and the other December 18, 1873.
Adams and Shilling acquired by proper conveyance made
in 1889 all the interest of the Union Pacific Railroad Company in the lands in township five sold by them to Reed and
Henderson, and freed from the liens created by the above
mortgages, except that the deed 'received by them from that
company contained a clause, reseming "to the said Union
Pacific Railroad Company the exclusive ight to prospectfor
coal and other minerals within and underlying said lands, and
to mine for and remove the same if found, and for this purpose it shall have the right of way over and across said lands
a space necessary for the conduct of said business thereon
without charge or liability for damage therefor."
No patent has ever issued from the Government for the
land in township five.
- Parties applied to Reed and Henderson for the purchase
of that land, but they declined and refused to buy, and a
sale by them was defeated.
Within two days of the 3d of September, 1891, and before
the bringing of this action, Reed and Henderson ascertained
that the plaintiffs were not the owners of and had no title to
the land which the deed from Adams and Shilling purported
to convey to them, that is, to the land in township six.
On or about the 4th day of September, 1891, Reed and
Henderson notified Adams and Shilling that they rescinded
the contract of sale, and demanded not only the return to
them of the moneys paid, on account of their purchase, with
interest, but the surrender of the two notes of $1444.45 each,
bearing date 'March 27, 1890, and the note for $391.10, dated
June 26, 1891. All of those notes had been returned by the
bank to Adams and Shilling.
After Reed and Henderson notified Adams and Shilling of
VOL.cLxvm- 37

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the rescission of the contract of sale, and before the bringing
of this suit, Adams and Shilling tendered another deed-:-' a
special warranty deed, containing a proper description of the
land intended to be sold by them to Reed and Henderson.
The latter refused to -accept that, deed, saying that they rescinded th6 contract of sale; that Adams and Shilling did not
.have a good title to the land described therein; and urging
the objection also that the deed was not one of general Warranty. The deed so tendered was dated September 29, 1891.
At the time Adams and Shilling tendered the deed of
special warranty, the title to the land therein described was
incumbered by the above reservation in the deed -of 1889
made by the Union Pacific Railroad Company to Adams and
Shilling, of an exclusive right in the Union Pacific Railroad
Company to mine, under said land, for coal and other minerals,
and to remove the same.
Subsequently, the Union IPacific Railroad Company executed
and delivered to Reed and Henderson a quitclaim deed dated
November 2, 1891, and which was acknowledged November
17, 1891, and duly recorded on the 8th of January 1892.
This deed released the land in township five from the claim.
of that company .under the coal reservation contained in the
deed of 1889. But it' did not release the right of that company to prospect for and mine "other minerals" under that
land.
On the 28th of March, 1890, Reed. and Henderson let, leased
and demised unto Adams and Shilling, who were'occupying
the land, for the term of six months from that date the land
in township five. But neither Henderson or Reed ever ac-tually occupied any part of it.
Neither of the notes described in the mortgage of March
27, 1890, made by Reed and Henderson have been paid.
Adams'and Shilling are still the owners and holders of them,
as well as of the mortgage. The amount unpaid on those
notes is the principal of each one, with interest from September 26, 1890, at the rate of eight per cent. per annum.
The relief sought by the suit was a decree reforming the
mortgage given by Reed and Henderson so as to correctly

ADAMS v. HENDERSON.
Opinion of the Court

describe the land in township five, and then a sale thereof in
satisfaction of the costs of the action, and the balance of the
purchase money, with a personal decree for any deficiency in
purchase price that may be found to exist.
The defendants controverted the right of the plaintiffs to
any decree, and, by cross-complaint, asked the cancellation of
the above mortgage and notes, and a judgment for the amount
they had paid'to the plaintiffs with interest.
The decree rendered was in accordance with the prayer of
the cross-complaint. In legal effect it was a decree rescinding
the contract between the parties, because of the inability
of the plaintiffs to make a sufficient title to the land sold by
them.
Tinder the facts thus stated, the case is within a very narrow
compass. It is found, and the plaintiffs and defendants agree,
that the former intended to sell, and the latter intended to
buy, the land in township five. By mistake the vendors conveyed land in another township which they did not intend to
sell, to which they had no title, and which the defendants
had no thought of buying; and by mistake the grantees, in
order to secure the purchase price for the land they in fact
purchased, mortgaged back to the plaintiffs the land in township six which the latter had. assumed-to convey to them.
That a court of equity has power to correct this mutual mistake, make the instruments given in execution of the contract
conform to the real intention of the parties, as established by
clear and convincing proof, and hold the parties to their
actual agreement, cannot be doubted.1 But before the
mortgage executed by the defendants can be reformed so as
to properly describe the land which the plaintiffs intended to
sell, and which the defendants mntended to buy and mortgage
'Snell v. Assurance Co., 98 U. S. 85, 88,89; Simpson v. Vaughan, 2 Atk. 31;
Henkle v. Boyal Ezhange, 1 Vesey Sen. 317; Gillespie v. Moon, 2 Johns.
Ch. 585; Keisselback v. Livingston, 4 Johns. Ch. 144, 148; Inskoe v. Proctor,
6 T. B. Mon. 311, 316; Bendrickson v. Ivins, 1 N. 3. Eq. 562, 568; Wesley
v. Thomas, 6 Har. & J. 24, 26; Newsom v. Bufferlow, 1 Dev. Eq. 379; Brady
v. Parker, 4 Ired. Eq. 430; Bailey v. Bailey, 8 Humph. 230; Clopton v.
Mlartin, 11 Alabama 187.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

back, it must appear that the plaintiffs have such title as they
represented themselves to have when selling the land. 'A good
and indefeasible title in fee imports such ownership of the land
as enables the 6wner to exercise absolute and exclusive control
of it as against all others.
That the plaintiffs have no such title is too clear to admit
of dispute. They hold under the Union Pacific Railroad
Company. They accepted a conveyance from that company
which expressly reserved, in its favor, and without limit of
time, an exclusive right not only "to prospect for coal and
other minerals" under the land in question; and "to mine for
and remove the same if found,", but "a right of way over and
across said lands a space necessary for the conduct of said
business thereon without charge or liability for damage therefor." ,It does not appear that the railroad company is under
any legal obligation to surrender or waive this reservation.
The plaintiffs cannot compel it to do so. It is true that the
reservation was subsequently released or withdrawn, so far as
it related to coal, but it is in full force as to other minerals.
So that the plaintiffs, in effect, ask that, instead of a good and
indefeasible title in fee simple, the defendants shall take and
pay for land incumbered with-the right of the railroad company for all time, to pass over and across it for the purpose of
prospecting for and mining minerals other than coal. A court
of equity could not compel the defendants to take and pay
for land thus incumbered without making. for the parties a
contract which they did not choose to make for themselves.
"Equity," 'this court said in Hunt v. Rousmanier, 1"Pet. 1,
14, "may compel parties to perform their agreements, when
fairly entered into, according to their terms; but it has no
power to make agreements for Parties, and then compel them
to execute the same. The former is a legitimate branch of
its jurisdiction, and in its exercise,, is highly beneficial to
society. The latter is without its authority, and the exercise
of it would be nbt only an usurpation of power, but would be
highly mischievous in its consequences."
Reference was made in argument to the fact that no patent
has ever been issued to the railroad company for the land .in

ADAMS v.

END~TERSON.

Opinion of the Court.

question, and it has been suggested by the defendants that if
it was discovered, before a patent issued, that it was mineral
land, the title of the company would fail altogether; for the
grant made- by Congress to the company did not include
mineral lands. Barden v. Nforthern Paific Railroad Company, 151 U. S. 288, 381. We do not think it necessary to
consider this aspect of the case, nor to determine whether
the plaintiffs would be entitled to the relief asked, if the
mineral reservation had not been made by the railroad company, and nothing else appeared affecting the title except the
fact that no patent had been issued by the United States, together with a possibility that befbre the issuing of a patent
the land might be ascertained to be mineral land which did
not pass under the grant by Congress. We forbear any expression of opinion upon that point, because if it be assumed
for the purposes of this case that the fact just stated would
not stand in the plaintiffs' way, we are of opinion that the
mineral reservation made by the railroad company is in itself
such an incumbrance as prevents the plaintiffs from making
a good and indefeasible title to the land.
It is suggested that the reservation as to "other minerals"
ought not to be deemed an obstacle to the relief asked, because it may never appear that there are any minerals under
the land; that it cannot be assumed- in the absence of proof
that the defendants are likely to be disturbed in the full and
complete enjoyment of the land for every purpose for which
it is adapted. On the other hand, it cannot be affirmed, in
view of the discovery of valuable minerals in many parts of
the West, that there are no minerals, other than coal, under
the land in question. What the defendants are entitled to is
a marketable title -a good and indefeasible title in fee. But
that they will not obtain, if forced to take the land subject to
the railroad company's right of way over it for the purpose of
prospecting for and mining minerals, which may be taken off,
when found. From that burden they cannot be relieved in
any way except by the voluntary action of the railroad company.
But it is contended by the plaintiffs that the act of 'March 3,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the. Court.

1887, c. 376, entitled "An act to provide for the adjustment of
land grants made by Congress to aid in the construction of
railroads and for the forfeiture of unearned lands, and for
other purposes," 24 Stat. 556, the act of March 2, 1896, c. 39,
29 Stat. 42, and'the concurrent resolution of June 10, 1896,
29 Stat. App. p. 14, confirmed as against the United States
the right and title of bona fide purchasers of lands- contained
within the limits of railroad grants; so that, as against such
bona ftde purchasers, the United States, by the acts cited, expressly disclaims any rights whatever, and confirms absolutely
the title o such bonaf
lde purchasers. By this contention is
meant that the act of March 3, 1887, as the same has been
construed by this court in United States v. 3finona & St.
Peter Railroad,165 U. S. 463, 466, 469, protects .the title of
Adams and Shilling as bonafide purchasers, even if, before a
patent was issued by the United States, the lands in question
should prove to be mineral lands.
It is sufficient, upon this point, to say that if the legislative
enactments referred to have any reference whatever to mineral lands -if
they were held applicable to lands purchased
in good faith from the railroad company, and which turned
out to be mineral lands that Congress never granted-that
would only remove one of the difficulties which, it is insisted,
are in the way of plaintiffs. For, if the plaintiffs' title is,
under the legislation of 1887 and 1896, good as against the
United States, there will still remain the incumbrafice upon
it arising from the right reserved by the railroad company,
for all time- whether the plaintiffs or their vendees consented or not-to go upon the lands in question, for the
purpose of prospecting and mining for minerals other than
coal, and removing any found there. A patent would convey the interest of the United States in the land. But it
would not destroy or release the mineral reservation made
by the Union Pacific Railroad Company in its deed to Adams"
and Shilling. Purchasers from Adams and Shilling would be
bound by that reservation, even if the United States issued a
patent to the railroad company or to its vendees.
The result of these views is that the defendants were not

In re TAMTA SUBURBAN RAILROAD COMPANY.

583

Statement of the Case.

bound to accept the deed tendered by the plaintiffs; and as
it appears that the plaintiffs cannot make such a title as they
agreed to give; as the cash payment was made upon the basis
of a good and indefeasible title in the plaintiffs, the defendants
were entitled upon their cross-complaint, framed in accordance
with the established modes of procedure in the Territory, to
have a decree which, in effect, rescinds the contract, and gives
them back what they paid,

Affirmed.

In

re TAMPA SUBURBAN

RAILROAD COMPANY.

ORIGINAL.
No number. Argued November 29, 197. - Decided December 20, 189T.

A writ of certiorari, such as is asked for in this case, will be refused when
there is a plain and adequate remedy, by appeal or otherwise.
Where, as in this case, an order i made by a Circuit Court, appointing a
receiver, and granting an injunction against interfering with his management of the property confided to him, an appeal may be taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, carrying up the entire order.
By denying the application in this case for a certiorari, the Court must not
be understood as intimating an opinion that a. Circuit Judge has power
to grant injunctions, appoint receivers, or enter orders or decrees, in invitum, outside of his circuit.
THE Consumers Electric Light and Street Railroad Company of Tampa executed a mortgage to the Central Trust
Company of New York, July 1, 1895, to secure an issue of
bonds amounting to $350,000 upon all the property of the
company, including its street railways, franchises and leases,
and, among other things, all its rights under a lease from the
Tampa Suburban Railroad Company, made or to be made,
and covering all the property of the latter.
On July 22, 1897, the Trust Company presented its bill of
complaint against the Consumers and Suburban Companies
for the foreclosure of its mortgage on an alleged default in the
payment of interest due July 1, 1897, to "one of the Circuit

