OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

court that they were not obliged to continuously protest, and
that settlements made with the Treasury officials upon the
basis of the correctness of the custom of the department in
regard to the sale of stamps and commissions thereon did not
bar the claimant's right to recover the moneys which the department ought to have paid but did not; that the position of
the parties was such as to render these continuous protests unnecessary. Various cases are cited by Mr. Justice Matthews,
-in delivering the opinion of the court, showing what amounts
to an involuntary payment.
In the -Mosby case, supra, it appears that the claimant
asserted his right to the moneys and had correspondence with
the officers of the department in relation thereto, and only
paid the moneys to avoid a contest with -his superior officers.
Nothing in any case cited is inconsistent with the view that
the payments in this case were. wholly voluntary in their
nature, and as such cannot be recovered back.
For these reasons, without considering other questions appearing in the record, we think the judgment below should be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Court of -laimswith
instructions to dismiss thepetition.

HOLTZMAN v. DOUGLAS.
IRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF -APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 80. Argued November 1,189T. -Decided

November 29, 1891.

The plaintiff claimed under one Hall,
This was an action of ejectment.
former owner of the laud. The defendants claimed under one Douglas,
The defendants set up adverse
who bought it at a tax sale in 1865.
possession in defence. The court instructed the jury that to defeat the
claim of the plaintiffs upon the defence of adverse possession the jury
must find from the evidence that the defendants, in person or by their
tenants, have for more than twenty years prior to the 31st day of lMay,
1889, held actual, exclusive, continuous, open, notorious and adverse
-possession of the said premises, and they cannot extend their possession

HOLTZMAN7 v. DOUGLAS.
Opinion of the Court.
by tacking it to the prior possession of any person who, during such
prior possession, did not claim any title or right to the premises; and,
on the request of the defendants, that "if the jury find from the evidence that William Douglas, the ancestor of the defendants, bought at a
tax sale held by the late corporation of Washington, so called, the property in controversy in this case and paid the price- bid for it by him at
such sale and received from the corporation of Washington a deed to
said property, which was by him duly filed for record and recorded in
the land records of the District of Columbia more than twenty years
prior to the commencement of this suit; that thereupon the said property was assessed to the said William Douglas on the tax books of the
city of Washington, and the taxes thereon from that time until the beginning of this suit paid by the said William Douglas or his successors In
title, the defendants in this case; that at a period of time more than twenty
years before the commencement of this suit the said property was rented
on behalf of the defendants to a person who took the same and held possession thereof as tenant of the d.efendants for the purposes of a stone
yard, paying rent therefor from the date of making such arrangements
with the defendants, and that, although the said property was not
Inclosed by a fence, yet the person so renting the same, either upon the
whole or a part thereof, during, his occupancy, deposited stone used by
him in his business, and thit such use and possession of said property
was continued by the occupant thereof actually, exclusively, continuously,
openly, notoriously, adversely and uninterruptedly for a period of twenty
years next before the commencement of this suit, then the jury is instructed that the defendants are entitled to recover." Held, that the.
Instructions as given were substantially correct, and there was evidence
In the case upon which to found the one given at defendants' request.

THE .case is stated in the opinion.

Xr. Arthur A. Birney for appellant.
.Mr. Job Barnardfor appellees. .r. Henry E. Davis and
Myir. James ,S. Edwards were on his brief.
Mg. JusTicE PECKHAM delivered the, opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment, brought to recover the
possession of a lot in the city of Washington, designated as
lot No. 8 in square No. 941. The defendants set up adverse
possession as a defence. Upon the trial before a jury a verdict
was rendered in favor of the defendants, upon which judgment
was entered, and an appeal taken to the Court of Appeals of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the District of Columbia, where the judgment was in all
things affirmed, 5 D. 0. App. 397, and the plaintiff has brought
the record here for review.
It appeared on the trial that the record title to the lot had
been, at the time of his deith, in one David A. Hall, who died
December 24, 1870, and the heirs-at-law- of Hall, by divers
conveyances, conveyed this lot to the plaintiff in fee. The
plaintiff proved also that the defendants at the commencement
of this action were in possession of the premises through one
Richard Rothwell, their tenant, and that they claimed to own
the same as heirs-at-law of William Douglas, who died in September, 1865. The defendants, on their part, proved a deed
of conveyance to William Douglas of the lot in question from
the corporation of the city of Washington, the deed reciting a
sale of the property for unpaid taxes assessed on the land in the
name of David A. Hall, the deed being dated July 6, i865, and
recorded July 12, 1865, in the proper office. The deed was
admitted in evidence to show color of title in the defendants.
The facts upon which the defence of adverse possession
arises have been so well summarized in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals, which was delivered by Mr. Justice Morris,
that we take his statement thereof, as follows:
"It was testified on behalf of the defendants that, some
time in the latter part of the same year, 1865, one Richard
Rothwell, a stonecutter and builder, who owned and occupied
an adjoining lot, deposited upon the rear of the lot in controversy some pontoons which he had purchased from the United
States, and which he stored there until he could make some
disposition of them; and that he afterwards used a part of
this lot for the deposit of stone and marble which he used in
his business. He testified that he had deposited three or four
wagon loads of marble there as early as the year 1867, and
that some of the pontoons remained on the lot four or five
years. He also testified that, in the year 1870, he commenced
to deposit stone therein large quantities; and that in 1872 he
erected a small shed on the lot in which to carry on his work,
and which he replaced with a larger structure in or about the
year 1882.

HOLTZMAI

v. DOUGLAS.

Opinion of the Court.

"Some time in the year 1867, Mrs. Douglas, the widow of
William Douglas, apparently acting on behalf of his estate or
of the estate of their children, had an interview with :Rothwell and came to an understanding with him with reference
to his continued occupancy of the lot, in pursuance of which
understanding he agreed to pay as rent to her annually therefor a sum of money equal to the amount of taxes that should
annually be assessed upon it, and he did so pay rent to her
until her death in 1887; and after her death he paid the rent
to her daughter, a Mrs. Wirt, down to about the time of the
institution of this suit. During all this time, that is, from
1867 to 1889, Rothwell continued to occupy the property and
paid rent therefor to the Douglases, and the latter paid the
taxes annually for all the years from 1868 to 1893, both inclusive, except for the year 1870, during, which there was an
interregnum in consequence of the establishment about that
time of a territorial form of government in the District of
Columbia, the assessment of the property having been in the
name of William Douglas since the year 1868, inclusive.
"By a stipulation filed in the cause since the argument, in
order to supplement some omission in the printed record, it
appears that, at the death of William Douglas in 1865, four
of his children were adults and two minors; and that Mrs.
Douglas, the widow, was appointed guardian to the two
latter, and filed in her guardianship accounts for several
years the annual receipts for taxes on this lot, paid by her,
and was allowed credit for them by the court. It, therefore,
appears that, with reference to this lot, she acted not for herself or on her own individual account, but on behalf of the
estate that was then in her children.
"There was a proposition on the part of Mrs. Douglas,
apparently about the time of Rothwell's attornment to her,
to inclose'the lot with a fence. But to this Rothwell objected,
on the ground that it would interfere with his use of it and
with free access to it of his horses and wagons; and the project was abandoned, so that the lot was never actually in-'
closed, and the only evidences of occupation consisted in
such use of the property as has been in4icated. The streets

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

had not been actually laid out in that neighborhood otherwise
than by their delineation on the map of the city; and the
whole region was an open field with no definite landmarks
to indicate to the casual observer the actual location of this
lot."
I This action was commenced on the 31st of
May, 1889, and,
as stated in the brief of the counsel for the plaintiff, the vital
question for the jury was, were the defendants in adverse possession prior to May 31, 1869. - The evidence is uncontradicted
that from a period as early as 1861 the defendants, through
their tenant, Rothwell, were in possession of the premises,
and such possession was continued up to the commencement
of this action; but it'
is claimed that because Rothwell had
entered upon the land in 1865, without claiming to own the
same or to be entitled to possession, and had deposited the
pontoons and marble mentioned in the foregoing statement
of facts, that he thereby became a tenant of the plaintiff's
predecessors in title, and that he could, not change the character of his possession, as being in subordination to them, by
any agreement between, himself and Mrs. Douglas without
giving notice to them- that such an agreement had been
made.
The doctrinb which the plaintiff seeks to set up, we think,
is not applicable to the facts of this case. After the purchase
at the tax sale, the delivery of the deed and the recording
thereof, Mrs. Douglas in 1867 claimed title to the land and
demanded possession thereof from Rothwell, and by reason
of the understanding then arrived at between herself and
Rothwell he became the tenant of Mrs. Douglas as the representative of the heirs-at-law of William Douglas, and such
tenancy continued up to the commencement of this action.
She went to him under a claim of ownership and of the
right to immediate possession of the lot as owner. He then
acknowledged her right, became her tenant and paid rent to
her. That certainly placed Mrs. Doiuglas, as the representative of the heirs, in possession of the lot. From that time
the facts are sufficient-upon which to base a claim of adverse
possession. We think it was inaugurated when Rothwell,

HOLTZMAN v. DOUGLAS.
Opinion of the Cofirt,

under his agreement with Mrs. Douglas, acknowledged her
right and paid her rent, and it was immaterial, so far as
the heirs are concerned, that Rothwell had before that time
entered upon the lot, although under no claim of title and
presumably in subordination to the title of plaintiff's predecessors. Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328. If Rothwell were
himself asserting a title by adverse possession, while coming into possession in acknowledgment of and under the
title of the owners, there might be an opportunity for the
application of the doctrine contended for by plaintiff, and in
such case Rothwell could not set up title by adverse possession while entering in subordination to the title of the owner,
unless he first vacated and then retook possession as a hostile
entry, or did some act neQessarily evincing an intention to put
an end to his tenancy. We are not dealing with Rothwell's
rights or title. The defendants did all they were called upon
to do in order to take possession and inaugurate an adverse
holding, when they came with their tax deed, claimed to own
the property described in it and exercised an act of ownership by letting the lot to Rothwell as a tenant at a certain
rent. When Rothwell recognized the claim of ownership and
remained in possession from that time in subordination to the
rights of Mrs. Douglas and the heirs-at-law, their adverse possession, so far as this point is concerned, was sufficiently inaugurated. Mrs. Douglas was no party or privy to the prior
entry of Rothwell, and, therefore, whatever the circumstances
as proven in this case regarding such prior entry, her rights
and those of the heirs cannot be in any way affected thereby.
There is no pretence of any fraud or concealment in the case
by any one, certainly not by Mrs. Douglas. Neither she nor
the heirs were bound, in order to maintain their rights, to
give any written or verbal notice to the former owners that
they were in possession through Rothwell; nor did the possession of IRothwell, as tenant of the Douglas heirs, fail to
commence at the time of this agreement because he did not
give notice to the former owners of his recognition of the
title aid right to the possession as claimed by Mrs. Douglas.
We are also of the opinion that there was evidence to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

submitted to the jury, that the possession- of the defendants
was in all other respects adverse within the meaning of the law
upon the subject for more than twenty years before the
commencement of this action. There is no doubt that the
entry of defendants by means of the agreement mentioned was
under a claim of title on the part of Mrs. Douglas and those
whom she represented as the heirs-at-law of William Douglas.
There was enough to authorize the jury to find that the possession was notorious and exclusive, continuous, actual, open
and adverse. Ward v. Cochran, 150 U. S. 597.
Payment of the takes, as described in the above statement
of facts, is i'ery important and strong evidence of a claim of
title; and the failure of the plaintiffs' predecessors to make
any claim to the lot or to pay the taxes, themselves, is some
evidence of "an abandonment of any right in or claim to the
property. In Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41, it was held by this
court that the payment of taxes on land for twenty-four successive years by the party in possession was powerful evidence
of the claim of right to the whole lot upon which the taxes
were paid. The same principle is held in Fletcher v. Fuller,
120 U. S. 534, 552. It-is some evidence that the possession
was under a claim of right and was adverse.
Although there was no fence around this lot during the
period in question, yet it was occupied by the tenant for the
purposes of his business, that of marble and stone cutting, and
although every foot of the property was not covered by his
material, yet it Was placed upon the lot in a convenient manner
to be used by him in the prosecution of his business, and in a
manner which showed that his possession was not in connection with any others, but was exclusive and perfect in himself.
We agree with the court below when, speaking through
Mr. Justice Morris, it says that: "Short of an actual inclosure,
it is not easy to conceive of a use and occupation more sharply
distinctive and adverse than the conversion of the property
into'a, stone yard, with the stone practically scattered all over
it, according to the testimony of one or more of the witnesses.
Nor should the fact be ignored in this connection that for

HOLTZM -

v. DOUGLAS.

286

Opinion of the Court.

upwards of twenty years the record owners of this property
wholly neglected their duties to the public in regard to it,
never sought to pay the taxes, and permitted the defendants
to discharge the burden which it was incumbent upon themselves to bear, and it might well be supposed that they had
abandoned the property and acquiesced in the title which the
defendants had acquired."
At the request of the plaintiff, the judge charged the jury
that, "to defeat the claim of the plaintiffs in this action upon
the defence of adverse possession, the jury must find from the
evidence that the defendants, in person or by their tenants,
have for more than twenty years prior to the 31st day of
May, 1889, held actual, exclusive, continuous, open, notorious
and adverse possession of. the said premises, and they cannot
extend their possession by tacking it to the prior possession of
any person who, during such prior possession, did not claim
any title or right to the premises."
Ward v. Cochran, 150
U. S. 597.
This charge contains a statement of all the requisites for
constituting an adverse possession according to the abovecited case.
And the jury were instructed that the defence of adverse
possession was an affirmative one, and that it was incumbent
upon the defendants to establish it by a clear preponderance
of proof, and if the proof were equally balanced, they must
find for the plaintiff.
At the request of the defendants the court gave the following instructions to the jury:
"If the jury find from the evidence that William Douglas,
the ancestor of the defundants, bought at a tax sale held by
the late corporation of Washington, so called, the property in
controversy in this case and paid the price bid by him at such
sale and received from the corporation of Washington a deed
to said property, which was by him duly filed for record and
recorded in the land records of the District of Columbia more
than twenty years prior to the commencement of this suit;
that thereupon the said property was assessed to the said
William Douglas on the tax books of the city of Washington

286

OCTOBER TERM. 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and the taxes thereon from that time until the beginning of
this suit paid by the said William Douglas or his successors
in title, the defendants in this case that at a period of time
more than twenty years before the commencement of this
suit the said property was rented on behalf of the defendants
to a person who took the same and held possession thereof as
tenant of the defendants for the purposes of a stone yard,
paying -rent therefor from the date of making such arrangement with the defendants, and that, although the said property was not inclosed by a fence, yet the person so renting
the same, either upon the whole or a part thereof, during his
occupancy, deposited stone used by him in his business, and
that. such use and possession of the said property was continued by the occupant thereof actually, exclusively, continuously, openly, notoriously, adversely and uninterruptedly for
a period of twenty years next before the commencement of
this suit, then the jury is. instructed that the defendants are
entitled to recover."
The plaintiffs excepted to the granting of such request and
to the charge as given. For the reasons already suggested,
we think the exception not well founded. The charge as
given was substantially correct, and there was evidence in
the case upon which to found it. The first, second and third
requests to charge, made by counsel for plaintiffs, involve the
questions above discussed,, and were properly refused. There
are no other questions of sufficient doubt to render their discussion necessary. We are of opinion there is no error in the
record, and the judgment must be
.Ajirmed.

