THE WILLIAM M. HOAG.
Opinion of the Court.

and not of appellate jurisdiction, while as a question of original jurisdiction, it is duly pending before the District Court
of the United States on pleadings which put that very question in issue." Seb also In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472.
No. 136 is also a libel for wages, and involves precisely the
same questions as are involved in the case of Dowsett, and
will be disposed of in the same way. Claimants have mistaken their remedy in these cases, and should have appealed to
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The decrees of the District Court, in so far as they assume
jurisdiction of these cases, are therefore
Affirmed.

THE WILLIAM M. HOAG.
THE THREE SISTERS.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRIOT COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 18T, 138. Submitted November 12, 1897.-Decided December 6,189T.

These cases are affirmed as to the jurisdiction of the District Court on the
authority of The Resolute, ante, 437.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

21[r. W
appellants.

=ldicm
2. -Muir and -Mr. John T. Whaley for

.Mr. Z. B. Cox, -Mr. 1. i. Cotton, -Mr. Thomas O'Day
and .r. C. F. Lord for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRoWN delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases differ from those already disposed of ante, 437,
only in the fact that the libels contain claims by the masters of
those vesselswith an averment that during the time they were
employed there was an officer known as the purser; that the
agents of the receiver and the purser collected and ieceived. all

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the earnings from the vessels from both passengers and
freight, and paid over such earnings in the ordinary course of
business to the receiver; that none of the earnings of the
vessels passed through the hands of the masters, and that
their sole duties consisted in navigating the steamers upon
routes selected by the receiver within the State of Oregon,
and that all the supplies and materials were purchased by the
said receiver through other agents and servants. This allegation is evidently designed to raise the question whether the
ancient doctrine enforced upon the court of admiralty by prohibition from Westminster Hall, that the master has no lien
for his wages, and which was declared to be the law by this
court in the case of The Or eans, 11 Pet. 175, has any application to modern methods, where a purser or other agent is
employed by the owner to collect the freights and pay the
bills of the vessel, the practice formerly being for the master
to receive all the freight, pay the crew and buy the supplies.
The denial of the lien of the master was based upon the
theory that he had a lien upon the freight for his wages, and
having the freight in his own hands was presumed to pay
himself. The argument is made that,'the reason for the rule
having ceased to exist, the rule itself, which denied the master
a lien upon the vessel, has become obsolete.
A lien was also claimed and admitted on behalf of the masters under a local statute of Oregon; but it wag also insisted
in defence thereto that the masters had not proceeded within
the time allowed by law for the enforcement.of such claim.
The latter question, at least, if not the former, did not affect
the jurisdiction of the court, but went to the merits alone.
The decrees of the court below in these cases are also, in
respect to jurisdiction,
Afflmed.

