OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

tion of the other is a clear, declaration that only one should be
the subject of appeal and the other not. And it would savor
of judicial legislation to hold that, although 'Congress has not
authorized appeals from orders appointing receivers, the mere
fact that in such an order there is a direction of a mandatory
character, either expressed or implied, in respect to taking
possession, makes it appealable, as an order granting an
injunction.
For these -reasonswe are of opinion that the question should
be answeredin the negative, and it will be so certified to
the Court of Appeals.

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.'
No. 812. Argifed November 29, 1997. -Decided

January3, 159.

The defendant, who was employed as a postal clerk at station F in the'
city of New York, was indicted under ReV. Stat. ยง 6467. The indictment
contained three counts; the first two under the first part of ยง 5467; the
third count under the last clause of that section. The evidence showed
that the Government detectives prepared a special delivery letter, designed as a test or 'decoy letter, containing marked bills, and delivered it,
bearing a special delivery stamp, to the night clerk in charge of branch
station F of the post office in this city. The defendant was not a letter
carrier, but a clerk employed at that office, whose duty it was to take
charge of, special delivery letters, enter them in a book kept for that
purpose and then place them in course of transmission. The letter in
question was addressed .to Mrs. Susan Metcalf, a fictitious person, 346
.E. 24th street, New York city, fictitious number. The letter was placed
by the night clerk with other letters upon the table where such letters
were usually placed, and the defendant, entering the office not long
after, took this letter, along with the others on the same table, removed
them to his desk, and properly. entered the other letters, but did not
enter this letter. On leaving the office not long after, the omission to
enter the letter having beeu'observed, he was arrested, and the money
contbnts of the letter, marked and identified by the officers, were found
upon his person. The officers testified upon'cross-examination that the
address was a fictitious one; that the letter was designed as a test letter,.

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
and that they did not intend that the letter should be delivered to Mrs.
Susan Metcalf or to that address and that it could not be delivered to
that person at that address. Held, that the evidence was sufficient to
sustain a conviction under the third count of the indictment.

THE; case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Arthur C. Butts for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Assitant Attorney General Boyd for defendants in
error.
AMR. SUSTIcE

PCKEA-M delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant was indicted in the Circuik. Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York in
October, 1896, for embezzling -and stealing a certain letter
and its contents, described in the indictment, containing
money. The indictment was under section 5467, Revised
Statutes, which is set out in the margin.' The defendant was
employed in a department of the postal service as a clerk at
1 SEC. 5467. Any person employed in any department of the postal service
who shall secrete,.embezzle or destroy any letter, packet, bag or mail of
letters entrusted to him, or which shall come into his possession, and which
was intended to be conveyed by mail, or carried or delivered by any mail
carrier, mail messenger, route agent, letter carrier or other. person employed
in any department of the postal service, or forwarded through or delivered
from any post office or branch post office established by authority of the
Postmaster General, and which shall contain any note, bond, draft, check,
warrant, revenue stamp, postage stamp, stamped envelope, postal card,
money order, certificate of stock or other pecuniary obligation or security
of the Government, or of any officer or fiscal agent thereof, of any description whatever; any bank note, bank post bill, bill of exchange or note of
assignment of stock in the funds; any letter of attorney for receiving
annuities or dividends, selling stock in the funds, or collecting the interest
thereof ; any letter of credit, note, bond, warrant, draft, bill, promissory
note, covenant, contract or agreement whatsoever, for or relating to the
payment of money, or the delivery of any article of value, or the performance of any act, matter or thing; any receipt, release, acquittance or discharge of or from any debt, covenant or demand, or any part thereof; any
copy of the record of any judgment or decree in any court of law or chancery, or any execution which may have issued thereon; any copy of any
other record, or any other article of value, or writing representing the same;
any such person who shall steal or take any of the things aforesaid out of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

station F, a branch post office of the-United States in the 2ity
of New York.
The indictment contained three counts. The first and second counts charged that the defendant wilfully embezzled, etc.,
the letter, which was intended to bb delivered by a letter
carrier. These counts were drawn with reference to the first
clause in the statute above referred to. The third count is
under the second clause of the statute, and alleged that the
defendant, "being then and there employed in a department
of the postal service of the United States, to wit, as clerk at
station F, a branch post office of the United States, in the said
city of Wew York, did unlawfully, wilfully and feloniously
steal, take and carry away a certain United States Treasury
note of the denomination and value of one dollar, and three
silver certificates of the United States, each of the denomination and value of one dollar, the said treasury note and the
said silver certificates then and there being the money and
property of one Joseph E. Jacobs, and the same treasury. note
and the same silver certificates were then and there feloniously
stolen and taken, as aforesaid, by the said William R.-Hall
from and out of a certain letter which then and there had
come into his possession in his capacity as such clerk, as
aforesaid, and by virtue of his said office and employment,
and the said letter was directed in the tenor following- that
is to say: 'Mrs. Susan Metcalf, No. 346 E. 24th St., ffew Y6rk
City, N. Y.,' and the same was then intended to be delivered by
a letter carrier,and had not then been .delivered to the party
to whom the same was directed," against, etc.
The defendant was arraigned, pleaded not guilty and was
subsequently tried at a term of the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York, and convicted
and sentenced to imprisonment at hard: labor in the Kings
County penitentiary for the term of two years.
any letter, packet, bag or mail of letters which shall have come into his
possession, either in the regular course of his official duties or in any other
manner whatever, and provided the same shall not have' been, delivered to
the party to whom it is directed, shall be -punishable by imprisonment at
hard labor for not less than one year nor more than five years.

HALL v. UNITED STATES.

"635

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the trial, /after the evidence had been given on the
part of the prosecution and the Government had rested its
case, the counsel for the defendant asked the court to direct
the jury to acquit the defendant upon several grounds, (1) that
the evidence failed to prove the crime charged in the indictment; (2) that a material allegation to be proved by the
'Government was the fact that the letter, described in the indictment and alleged to have been secreted, destroyed and embezzled and its contents stolen by the defendant, was intended
to be delivered by a letter carrier, while the uncontradicted
evidence showed that such letter was not intended to be
delivered by a letter carrier, and therefore a material allegation in the indictment was not only not proved but was absolutely disproved; (3) that. there was a fatal variance between
the indictment and the proofs offered to sustain it by the
Government, and the defendant should therefore be acquitted.
The motion to direct an acquittal was denied by the court
and the defendant duly excepted. The defendant sued out a
writ of error from thi4 court to review the judgment of conviction, and the validity of the exception to the refusal of the
court to direct the jury to acquit is the sole question now
before us.
After his conviction the defendant moved in arrest of judgment and for a new trial. Thd judgment was arrested on; the
first two counts, and the motion for a new trial was denied.
We take a statement of the facts proved upon the trial, from
the opinion delivered by the learned judge in denying that
motion, as we think the statement contains all that is material for the consideration of the case, and that it is a correct
summary of the evidence in the particulars mentioned. It is
as follows:
"The evidence showed that the Government detectives prepared a special delivery letter, designed as a test or decoy
letter, containing marked bills and delivered it, bearing a
special delivery stamp, to the night clerk in charge of branch
station F of the post office in this city. The defendant was
not a letter carrier, but a clerk employed at that office, whose
duty it was to take charge of special delivery letters, enter

OCTOBERt TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

them in a book kept for that purpose, and then place them in
course of transmission. The letter in question was addressed
to Mrs. Susan Metcalf, a fictitious person, 346 'E. 24th street,
Niew York city, a fictitious number. The letter was placed
by the night clerk with other letters upon the table where
such letters were usually, placed, and the defendant; entering
the office not long after, took this letter, along with the others
on the same table, removed them to his- desk and properly
entered the other letters, but did not enter this letter. On
leaving the office not long after, the omission to enter the
letter having been observed, he was arrested and the money
contents of the letter, marked and identified by the' officers,
were found upon his person. The officers testified upon crossexamination that the address was a fictitious one; that the
letter was-designed as a test letter, and that they ' did not intend that the letter should be delivered to Mrs. Susan Metcalf
or to that address,' and that 'it could not be delivered to that
person at that address.'."
The question now before us is whether the evidence is sufficient to sustain this conviction under the third count of the
indictment. We think it is. Section 5467, Revised Statutes,
describes two distinct offences; the first clause of the section
is directed against any person: employed in any department
of the postal service who secretes,' embezzles, etc., any letter
entrusted to him or which shall come into his possession, and
which was intended to be conveyed by mail or carried or delivered by.any mail, carrier, mail messenger, route agent, letter
carrier or oth6r person ,employed in any department of the
postal service, or forwarded through or delivered from any
post office or branch post-office established by the authority
of the Postmaster General, and which shall contain any note,
etc. This isone of the*offences set forth in that section. The
other offence set. forth in the same section does not in terms
provide that the letter must have been intended to have been
conveyed by mail of carried or-delivered by any mail carrier,
letter carrier, etc., but it provides that "any such person,"
(meaning thereby any person employed in any department of
the. postal service as described in the first part of the section,)

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"who shall steal or take any of the things aforesaid out of
any letter, packet, bag or mail of letters which shall have
come into his possession, either in the regular course of his
official duties or in any other manner whatever, and provided
the same shall not have been delivered to the party to whom
it is directed, shall be piunishable by imprisonment at hard
labor for not less than one year nor more than five years."
A test or "decoy" letter comes within the statute. Goode
v. United Statm, 159 U. S. 663; Montgomery v. United States,
162 U. S. 410.
Although the section provides the same punishment for all
the various acts set forth therein, yet the section itself clearly
describes two different classes of offences. United States v.
Wight, 38 Fed. Rep. 106. The proof would not show a violation of the first part of the section unless it appeared that the
letter entrusted to the person employed in the postal service,
or which came into his possession, was one which was intended
to be conveyed by mail, or carried, or delivered, by -a mail
carrier, mail messenger, route agent, letter carrier or other
person employed in any department of the postal service, or
that it was forwarded through or delivered as stated in the
section. Whether the proof here does not show that the
letter in question was such a letter, it is not now necessary to
say, because the judgment '-as arrested upon the first two
counts covering that clause of the section. Although a motion
1i arrest of judgment cannot properly be made upon the
ground that the evidence is insufficient to prove the case under
the indictment, or under any particular count thereof, because
such motion is confined to matters appearing upon the face
of the record itself, 1 Archbold Or. Pr. & P1. (7 Am. ed.) 671
and notes, yet, as the motion was entertained and judgment
was actually arrested upon the first two counts, those counts
are not now in question.
The other clause of the section provides for a distinct offence,
and under that it is not necessary to aver that the letter was
intended to be conveyed by mail or delivered by a letter
carrier, etc., as provided in the first clause, and it covers the
case of any person employed in any department of the postal

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

service who steals or takes any of the things, already described
in the section, out of any letter, etc., which shall have come
into his possession either in the regular course of his official
duties or in any other manner whateve.r, provided the same
shall not have been delivered to the party to whom it is directed. We think this is entirely plain. United States v.
Wight, supra.
We think the indictment must show under this clauseand this third count does show- that the letter, the contents
of which were stolen by the person employed in the postal
service, was one which had come in some way or manner
under the jurisdiction and into the possession of the Post
Office Department; for the statute does not refer to letters in
regard to which that department has not and was not intended to have any concern or any duty to perform, such as
letters.whlch have not been deposited or-left in any manner
in any post office or street letter box, or given to a carrier or
other agent of the department, and which remain entirely
outside of that department, and where the stealing of such
letters or their contents at that time is not of Federal cognizance. The evidence shows that this letter was within the
possession and jurisdiction of the department, in the branch
post office in New York, and that while undelivered to the
party-to'whom it was addressed, its contents were'stolen by
defendant, who was a person in the postal service. Such
stealing comes within the statute. That it was a test or
decoy letter is immaterial, as already shown. If the letter be
within the lawful possession of the PostOffice Department, the
stealing of the contents of such letter by a postal employ6 is
a vi olation of the latter part of the section of the statute.
This letter was thus'within the jurisdiction and possession of
the Department, and the defendant then stole its contents.
It is urged, however, that the conviction cannot be sustained
under this third count because it contains, in addition to the
particular allegations necessary to bring the act witVin the
latter part of the section, an allegation that the lettdr, the contents of which were stolen, was intended to be delivered by a
letter carrier. This fact forms no part of the offence men-

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tioned in the second clause of the section in question, and it
was therefore unnecessary to allege it. As the third count
does contain such an averment, the counsel for the defendant
argues that it became necessary to prove the fact thus averred,
and, as it was (he argues) unproved, the defendant should
have been acquitted by direction of the court. The result of
such a holding would be to say that where an indictment contained all the necessary averments to constitute an offence
created by the statute, if an averment wholly unnecessary
and entirely immaterial be added, the prosecution must fail
unless it prove such unnecessary,.averment, although proving
every fact constituting the offence provided by the statute.
We are of opinion that it was not incumbent upon the prosecution to prove this averment in order to sustain a conviction
under this count.
Without this averment the third count contains every fact
necessary to be proved in order to constitute an offence under
the second clause of the statute, and the evidence in the case
is sufficient to authorize the defendant's conviction upon that
count. The character of the offence, as provided by statute,
is not changed by this unnecessary averment, nor is the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain a conviction under the third
count at all impaired if it be assumed that it did not show
that the letter was intended to be delivered by a letter carrier.
This is unlike a case where an unnecessary amount of description of an article to be identified by the description is contained in the indictment. Under those circumstances, it has
been sometimes held that the description must be proved as
laid, because it went to the identification of the article described. 1or is it like the case of an indictment for perjury
or one for a libel where the sworn statement alleged to be
false or the article alleged to be libellous must be proved substantially as averred in the indictment. In such cases the
matter set forth constitutes the offense and must be proved
accordingly, But here, every necessary fact is averred and
proof sufficient to sustain a conviction has been given in regard to each fact. Because the pleader unnecessarily made
an averment of a totally immaterial fact, the Government was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

not. therefore bound to prove it in order to sustain a conviction. For this reason there was no fatal variance between
the offence set forth, in the indictment and the proof. 1Montgomery v. United States and Goode v. United States, 8upra.
The judgment of convictionmust be
Affirned.

, CROSSLEY v. CALIFORNIA.
&PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUiT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 470. Submitted December 14, 1897. -Decided Jafuary 3,1898.
In a trial before a state court for murder charged to havd been committed
within the State, it is for tie state court to decide whether the question of
whether the evidence tended to show that the accused was guilty of murder only in the second degree shall or shall -not be submitted to the jury,
- and its decision is not subject, to revision in the Circuit Court of the
United States, nor here.
A writ of habeas corpus cannot be made use of as a writ of error.
While the derailment of a train carrying the mails of the United States is a
crime which may be punislied through the courts of the United States
under the provisions of the statutes in that behalf, the death of the engineer thereof produced thereby, is a crime against the lawi of the State in
which the derailment takes place, for-which the person causing it may be
proceeded against in the state court through an indictment for murder.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-.,,_o appearance for appellants, and no brief filed for them.
.Mr. W. F. Fitzgerald and Mr.
pellees, submitted on their brief.
MR. CHIEF JUsTiCE FULLER

.H. Anderson, for ap-

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Worden was convicted in the Superior Court'of the county
of Yolo, California, of the crime of murder in the first degree,
and sentenced to be hanged. The Supreme Court of Cali-

