OCTOBER TERME, 1897.
Syllabus.

error, either in the appellate court, or in the Supreme Court
of the State, and is not noticed in either of the opinions of
those courts. Under these circumstances it cannot be assigned
as error here.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is, therefore,
Aflirmed.

HODGSON v. VERMONT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 26. Argued October 14, 15, 1897. -Decded

November 29,1897.

The State's attorney of Vermont, under the statutes of that State, filed an
information in the proper court against H., charging that on a day and
at a place named he." did, at divers times, sell, furnish and give -away
intoxicating liquor, without authority, contrary to the form of the statute
in such case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of
the State." At the same time he filed specifications as follows: "In
said case the State's attorney, for a specification, specifies, and says as
follows: That he will rely upon, and expect to prove in the trial of said
cause, the fact, that the respondent, within three years before the filing of
the information in the said cause, sold, furnished and gave away intoxicating liquor to the following named persons, or to some one of them,
that is to say," giving the names without the residences. " And the
undersigned State's attorney states that he has also specified the offences
against said respondent with all the certainty as to the time and person,
and he is now able from all the information he has in said cause; and
the State's attorney reserves the right to amend these specifications if he
shall have further evidence pursuant to the statute. And the State's
attorney further specifies and relies upon the selling, furnishing and
giving away of intoxicating liquor by the respondent within three years
before the filing of said information, to some person or persons now
unknown to the State's attorney, and claims the'right to add the nawes
of such persons, when ascertained, to the specifications, and to make
such other amendments in these specifications as the law and discretion
of the court may admit."
This specification is not required by any
statute, and fornis no part of the information. It is, however, provided
by statute that "when a specification is required, it shall be sufficient to
specify the offences with such certainty as to time and person as the
prosecutor may be able, and the same shall be subject to amendment at
any stage of the trial; and when the specification sets forth-the sale,

HODGSON v. VERMONT.

263

Statement of the Case.
furnishing or giving away to any person or persons unknown, the witnesses produced may be Inquired of as to such transactions with any
person, whether named in the specification, or not, and as the name of
such person may be disclosed by the evidence it may be inserted in or
added to the specification, upon such terms as to a postponement of the
trial, for this cause, as the court shall .think reasonable." It did not
appear from the record that the specification was asked for by the
respondent, nor whether tile offences of which he was convicted were for
selling, furnishing or giving away; or whether to either of the sixty-six
persons named in the specification, or to some person or persons not
named. Held, that this was due process of law, within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.'
The words "1due process of law" do not necessarily require an indictment
by a grand jury in a prosecution by a State for murder. The Amendment
undoubtedly forbids arbitrary deprivation of life, liberty or property, and
In the administration of criminal justice requires that no different or
higher punishment shall be imposed on one than is Imposed on all for like
offences, but it was not designed to interfere with the power of the State
to protect the lives, liberty and property of its citizens, nor with the
exercise of that power in the adjudications of the courts of a State in
administering the process provided by the law of the State.
AT the June term, 1892, of the county court for the county
of Addison," in the State of Vermont, the plaintiff in error
was tried and convicted "of one first offence and one second
offence," upon an information for selling liquor, filed by the
State's attorney. The information was as follows:
"Be it remembered that Frank L. Fish, State's attorney
within and for said county, comes here into open court in his
own proper person, and upon his oath of office gives said court
to understand and be informed, that Edward Hodgson of
Orwell, in the county of Addison, and State of Vermont, on
the 7th day of June, A.D. 1892, at Orwell, in the county of
Addison aforesaid, did, at divers times, sell, furnish and give
away intoxicating liquor, without authority, contrary to the
form of the statute in such case made and provided, and
against the peace and dignity of the- State.
"And the said State's attorhey, on his oath aforesaid, comes
and gives said court further to understand and be informed,
that the said Edward Hodgson, prior to this time, to wit, at
the December term of the county court held at Middlebury,
in and for the county of Addison, on the first Tuesday of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

December, A.D. 1891, before and by consideration of said
court, was, as appears of record, convicted of selling, furnishing and giving away intoxicating liquors, against the law in
such case made and provided."
It is stated in the record that the State's attorney "likewise
filed specifications in words and figures following :"
"In said case the State's attorney, for a specification, specifies, and says as follows: That he will rely upon, and expect
to prove in the trial of said cause, the fact that the respondent,
within three years.before the filing of the information in the
said cause, sold, furnished and gave.away intoxicating liquor to
the following named persons, or to some one of them, that is
to say:
"[Herefollow the names of sixty-six persons, whose residence
is not given.]
('And the undersigned State's attorney statesthat he has
also specified the offences against: said respondent with all the
certainty as to the time and person, and he is now able from
all the information he has in said cause; and the State's
attorney reserves the right to amend these specifications if he
shall have fither evidence pursuant to the statute.
"And the State's attorney further specifies and relies upon
the selling, furnishing and giving away of intoxicating liquor
by,the respondent Within three years before the filing of said
information, to some person or persons now unknown to the
State's attorney, and zlaims the right to add the names of
such persons, when ascertained, to the specifications, and to
make such other amendments in these specifications as the law
and discretion of the court may admit."1
This specification is not required by any statute, and forms
no part of the information. It isr, however, provided by
statute that ' when a specification shall be required, it shall
be sufficient to specify the offences with such certainty as to
time and person as the prosecutor may be able, and the same
shall be subject to amendment at any stage of the trial; and
when the specification sets forth the sale, furnishing or jiving
away to any person or persons unknown, the witnesses produced
may be inquired of as to such 'transactions with any person,

HODGSON v. VERMONT.
Statement of the Case.

whether named in the specification or not, and as the name of
such person may be disclosed by the evidence it may be inserted
in or added to the specification, upon such terms as to a postponement of the trial, for this cause, as the court shall think
reasonable." Statute of Vermont, 1886, No. 37.
It does not appear from the record that the specification
was asked for by the respondent, nor whether the offences of
which h e was convicted were for selling, furnishing or giving
away; or whether to either of the sixty-six persons named in
the specification, or to some person or persons not named.
These proceedings were based upon c. 169, % 3802, 3803,
3859, 3860 of the Revised Laws of Vermont, (Revision of
1880,) as amended by No. 42 of the statutes of 1888, which
are as follows:
"SEa. 3802. If a person by himself, clerk, servant or agent,
sells, furnishes or gives away, or owns, keeps or possesses with
intent to sell, furnish or give away, intoxicating liquor or
cider, in violation of law, he shall forfeit for each offence
to the State, upon the first conviction not less than five nor
more than one hundred dollars, and may also be imprisoned
in the discretion of the court not more than thirty days; upon
,the second and each subsequent conviction, not less than ten
nor more than two hundred dollars for each offence, and shall
also be imprisoned not less than one month nor more than one
year.
"SEa. 3803. Justices shall have concurrent jurisdiction with
the county court in prosecutions under the preceding section,
and the same may be tried upon the complaint of the grand
juror of the town, or of the State's attorney, before a justice,
or upon the information of the State's attorney, before the
county court.
. "S1Eo. 3859. Oomplaints for any offence against section 3572
(section 3802) shall be substantially in the following form:
"'STATE OF VEERMONT,

t S:

"'To A. B., justice of the peace for the county of
, in said county,
comesC. D., grand juror of the towun of

-OCTOBER TERM, 1897;
Statement of the Case.

and complains that E. F., of
, on the
day of
A.D.
-, at
, did, at divers times, sell, furnish or give away (as the case may be) intoxicating liquor,
without authority, contrary to the form of the statute in such
case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of
the State.
"'C. D., Grand Juror.'
"Sxc. 3860. Under the foregoing complaint every distinct
act of selling, furnishing or giving away may be proved, and
the court shall impose a fine for each offence."
- Before trial the plaintiff in error filed a motion to quash the
indictment. This motion was overruled by the court, to which
decision the plaintiff in error duly excepted. The case was
carried. by the plaintiff in error to the Supreme Court of Vermo'nt upon exceptions to the overruling by the county court
of his motion to quash, and upon other exceptions taken at the
trial; and not material here, as -they raise no Federal question.
Judgment and sentence were stayed in the county court, to
await-the result of the hearing in the Supreme Court.
In that court the plaintiff in error filed a motion in arrest of
judgment, which he was allowed by the court to do, and the
same was taken into consideration and passed upon by the
court.
The grounds set forth are in substance: That the information upon which the conviction was had is insufficient and void,
and lacking in substance in various particulars specified in the
motion; that the respondent was deprived of his right to be
informed of the nature and cause of the accusation against
him; that he.was convicted of two infamous crimes without
due process of law, and denied by the State the equal pro'tection of the law; that the statutes of Vermont under which
the proceedings were had are in conflict with the provisions
of the Constitution of the United -States, and especially that
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment which provides that
"no State shall make or enforce any la:w which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States;
nor shall any-State deprive any person of life, liberty or prop-

HODGSON v. VERMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

erty without due process of law; nor deny to any person the
equal protection of the law."
The Supreme Court of Vermont affirmed the judgment of
the county court refusing to quash the information, and overruled the motion in arrest, and proceeded to render judgment
upon the verdict, aid sentenced the plaintiff in error to pay 4
fine of $30 for the first offence and $70 for the second offence,
with costs taxed at $197.36, and to be confined at hard labor
in the house of correction at Rutland for the period of sixty
days, "with alternative sentence." The alternative sentence
is, thait in case of failure to pay the fine and costs within
twenty-four hours, the respondent be confined in the house of
correction for the term of three days for each dollar, in addition to the period for which he is sentenced. Rev. Laws,
ยง 4336.
The court decided, in substance, that the information was
sufficient; that it constituted due process of law; that the
statute did not infringe the requirements of the Constitution
of the United States by depriving the accused of the equal
protection of :the laws or by subjecting him to cruel and
unusual punishment.
The defendant thereupon sued out a writ of error to this
court, which was allowed by the Chief Judge of the Supreme
Court of the State of Vermont.
Mr. B. J Phe/p8 for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

Mr.

. B. Blie

.Mr. Frank Z. .Fi8 and .Mr. C acrle iA. Prouty for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SmnAs,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
At a former term of this court, in the case of O'Neil v.
VFermont, 144 U. S. 323, we were asked to hold certain provisions of the laws of the State of Vermont, concerning the
importation and sale of intoxicating liquors, void, because they

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

conflicted with the Constitution of the United States wherein
it confers upon Congress exclusive power to regulate interstate
commerce and forbids 'cruel 'and unusual punishments. Bdt
the court was of ,opinion that the record in-that case did not
disclose that any Federal question had been raised or decided
in the Suprem~e Court of Vermont, and the writ of error was
accordingly dismissed.
In the present case the assignments of error raised no question as to the character of the punishment 'inflicted upon the
accused. Nor do the facts of the present case call upon us to
consider the validity of those portions of the Vermont statutes
which concern intoxicating liquors as articles of interstate
commerce.
But certain Federal questions are sufficiently presented in
this record, which have been argued with great ability, and
which it is our duty to now consider.
- The first contention is that the information under which the
plaintiff in error was tried and convicted was defective in such
essential particulars as tj deprive him of his liberty and property without "due process of law." It is said that the information does not charge any specific offence; that it does not
state with any reasonable certainty the time when the offences
charged, or any or either of them, occurred; that the name of
no person to whom liquor was alleged to have been sold, furnished or given away is stated; thbat neither the place where
the sales are claimed to have taken place, the kind or quantity
of intoxicating liquor so. disposed of,".nor any other circumstance that would tend to identify the transactions referred
to, is stated; that such an -information does not protect the
accused the least against being prosecuted for one crime and
convicted of another; that under this information it is and
must remain utterly uncertain what particular -one of many
offences the accused was convicted of; that the record of an
acquittal or conviction upon such an information forms no bar
to a second prosecution for the same offence.
While we are not relieved from considering these objections by the mere fact that the offences charged arose under
a statute, and were proceeded in, in a court of a State, it ia

HODGSON v. VERMONT.

26

Opinion of the Court.

yet obvious that our concern in them can go no further than
to inquire whether the plaintiff in error was deprived of
the rights and immunities secured to him by the Federal
Constitution.
Several of the objections specified merely raise questions of
form, and, as such, were conclusively ruled by the state court.
But-it is insisted that in all criminal prosecutions the accused
must be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation
against him ; that in no case can there be, in criminal proceedings, due process of law where the accused is not thus
informed, and that the information which he is to receive is
that which will acquaint him with the essential'particulars of
the offence, so that he may appear incourt prepared to meet
every feature of the accusation against him.
Conceding that this is a correct statement of the rights of
an accused person, and that, if deprived of such rights, he
may properly invoke the protection of the Constitution of the
United States, our reading of this record has not satisfied us
that the plaintiff in error has any just grounds of complaint.
We adopt, in this regard, the views and language of the
Supreme Court of the State:
"The offence created by the statute is the provision of
intoxicating liquors without the authority of law, either by
sale, furnishing or giving away. There are no circumstances
necessary to be set out to constitute either of these facts
an offence. The terms*of the statute as clearly *import the
prohibited offence as any terms can. The offence is neither
heightened nor lessened by, nor dependent upon, the kind or
amount of intoxicating liquors sold, nor upon the person to
whom the sale, furnishing or giving away is made, nor upon
the amount of money received, nor upon whether made by the
respondent or by some one for him. None of these particulars need be set forth to notify the respondent of the offence
with which he is charged, and called upon to answer, nor to
apprise the jury of what they are io convict or acquit him,
nor to apprise the court of the sentence which it should
impose. The prescribed form covers the offence in the exact
and easily understood language of the statute which creates

OCTOBER TERM. 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

it. This is sufficient.

.

It is not an ancient crime

which has been. from time immemorial, clothed in special
terms which, by long use, have become the most apt and
definite ones to describe the exact crime. The statute sometimes prescribes the punishment of a common law crime without defining it, or creates an offence and prescribes no form for
an information. In such cases it is well held that the common law requirements in charging it must be met.
But it is sufficient to charge a statutory offence in the terms
of the statute.....
The respondent contends that the
prescribed form is defective, in that it does not require the
names of the persons to whom sales are claimed to have been
made to be set forth; that sales must be made to some person. But this contention is based on the requirements of the
common law, when applicable. The specifications ordinarily
woftld, and did in this case, supply the information.
It is also contended that the particulars of the kind of liquor,
price, and name of the person to whom sold should be set
forth .inthe information, both-to apprise the respondent of
the evidence he has to meet, and to have the record protect
him from a second information for the same offence. It is
never necessary for the State to disclose what is merely its.
proof of the qommission of the offence charged in the information. If the record does not itelf identify the offence or
offences for which conviction has been had, on the trial of a
subsequent prosecution, such identification may be made by
parol testimony. If these particulars were set out in the
information, resort might have to be had to parol proof to
identify the offence for which conviction was had. It might
occur that the same respondent made more than one sale of
the same kind and quantity of liquot, to the same person, at
the same' price, at the same place and on the same day.
Besides by the common law'it has always been held that the
prosecutor need not set forth the name of the person, when
unknown. It is sufficient to state that his name is unknown.
.. .These

particulars of the kind, quantity, price, and

person to whom sold, are seldom known to the prosecutor
until revealed by the witness upon the stand. Without these

HODGSON v. VERMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

particulars the prescribed form answers every essential requirement of the common law in regard to informations or indictments. The prescribed form sets forth in clear language,
easily to be understood, ' the cause and nature of the accusation.' . . . By the use of the words ' at divers times' on
the day named, it notifies him that he may be called upon to
meet more than one offence .cominitted in one of the ways
named. The prosecution is never confined to prove the
offence on the day specified in the information, if the proof
is within the time limited for the prosecution of the offence.
The accused can of right call upon the prosecutor to specify
more fully what is claimed to be included under these general
terms. This is analogous to the common counts in assumpsit
in civil cases, which grew up under the common law. The
defendant in a civil case is entitled to notice of what he is
called upon to meet, as much as a respondent in a criminal
case, and for the same reasons. Under these common counts
it has always been held that the plaintiff might show any
number of claims of the class described, and for this reason,
that the defendant was entitled, as a matter of right, to a
bill of particlars, or specifications, and that such specifications supplied what was lacking by the generality of the
count, in regard to the particulars and number of similar
claims which the plaintiff would call upon the defendant to
litigate. In this view, the information, aided by specifications, is good by the rules of the common law; but, whether
it be or not, the legislature has an undoubted right to change
and mould the forms of procedure so long as it does not
deprive the accused of any constitutional right.

.

.

.

This

class of cases is not exceptional in their manner of trial.
They are proceeded with like all other cases. The selection
and empanelling of the jury, the rules of evidence, burden of
proof, and procedure in the trial, is the same as in all other
criminal cases. What has been said in regard to the scope
.of the information, aided by specifications, to which the respondent was entitled as a matter of right, and which were
furnished to him, and in regard to the order and manner of
his trial, makes the respondent's trial a trial by ' due process

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of law,' or in accordance with ' the law of the land,' within the
varying definitions of those general terms as claimed by the
respondent's counsel."
tate v. Hodgson, 66 Vermont, 134,150.
It is argued that the defects or insufficiencies of the information cannot be supplied by the. specification, because the latter
is not required by any statute and is not a 'matter of .right.
If this assumption was well founded it would strengthen the
criticism urged against the information. But -that such
assumption is not well founded is shown by the opinion of
the Supreme Court of Vermont above quoted, wherein it is
held that the accused under these proceedings is entitled to a
specification as a matter of right.
The defendant, being entitled to a specification as a matter
of right, under the decision of the Supreme Court of the State,
the question of the validity of the information in the absence
of any specification is not presented by this case, and we
therefore express no opinionupon it.
It is further claimed that the conviction of the plaintiff and
his sentence to infamous punishment" was without due process
of law, because he was not indicted by a grand jury. Discussion of this contention is unnecessary, because it was the
very iiatter considered in Hurtado v. Californiat, 110 U. S.
516, where it was ruled that the words "due process of law"
in the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States do not necessarily require an indictment by a.
grand jury in a prosecution by a State for murder. The views
expressed in that case have been approved and followed in a
number of subsequent cases, of which a few may be cited,
Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S.
436; Ez arte Converse, 137 U. S. 624; ilallinger v. Davis,
146 U. S.314.
We -concede the proposition, so earnestly urged on behalf
of the plaintiff in error, that by the Fourteenth Amendment
it is made the right and the consequent duty of this court,
when a case has been duly brought before it, to inquire
whether, in the enactment 'and administration of the criminal
laws of a State, it is sought to arbitrarily deprive any person
of his life, liberty or property, or to refuse him the equal

UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
Counsel for Parties.

protection of the laws, and that such inquiry is not precluded
or ended by the mere fact that the judgment complained of
was reached by proceedings in a state court in pursuance of
the provisions of a state statute. But we are contented to
close this discussion by quoting the language of this court in
-E
'arC
Converse, 137 U. S. 624: "We repeat, as so often
has been said before, that the Fourteenth Amendment undoubtedly forbids any arbitrary deprivation of life, liberty
or property, and in the administration of criminal justice
requires that no different or higher punishment shall be
imposed on one than is imposed on all for like offences, but
it was not designed to interfere with the power of the State
to protect the lives, liberty and property of its citizens; nor
with the exercise of that power in the adjudications of the
courts of a State in administering the process provided by the
law of the State."
Finding no error therein, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Vermont is
Afirmed.
UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 296. Submitted October 26, 169T. -Decded

November 29, 1897.

When a consul of the United States, in his regular accounts and settlements

with the Treasury, charges himself with fees received by him as consul
for which he is not obliged to account, and pays the same into the
Treasury with each settlement, and retires, and makes his final settlement with the Treasury on the same basis, he cannot, in an action
commenced in the Court of Claims three years after his retirement,
recover back such payments, but they will be regarded as wholly voluntary payments.

T

ase is stated in the opinion.

.M. Attorney Gemral and .Mr.Felix B'anniganfor appellant.
.Mr. 7oin S .Aosby for appellee.
voL. CLxVm-18

