PRATT v. PARIS GAS LIGHT & COKE CO]EPANY.

255

Statement of the Case.

PRATT v. PARIS GAS LIGHT & COKE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No5. Submitted November 2,.1897.- Decided November 29, 189?:
To constitute an action one arising under the patent-right laws of the
United States, the plaintiff must set up some right, title or interest under
the patent laws, or, at least, make it appear that some right or privilege
under those laws will be defeated by one construction, or sustained by the
opposite construction of these laws.
When a state court has jurisdiction both of the parties and the subject
matter as set forth in the declaration, it cannot be ousted of such jurisdiction by the fact that, incidentally to his defence, the defendant claims
the invalidity of a certain patent.

THIS was an action in assumpsit upon the common counts,
by the persons constituting the firm of Henry Pratt & Company, to recover of the Paris Gas Light and Coke Company
the agreed consideration of $4:850 for manufacturing and
setting up at its works in the city of Paris, Edgar County,
Illinois, an apparatus for the manufacture of water gas, in
accordance with certain patents granted to Pratt apd Ryan,
April 22, 1884, and April 12, 1887, the component p.nrts of
said apparatus being set forth in the bontract.
Defendants pleaded the general issue, and in addition
thereto that the cause of action arose under a written contract, by which the plaintiffs agreed to keep the defendant
harmless against any suits which might be brought against
it for the infringement of any patents, and if any such were
brought, to defend the same at their own expense; further
,averring that the patents to Pratt and Bryan were void, and
an infringement upon certain patents which had been granted
to Springer and Lowe; that plaintiffs had not kept defendant
harmless from suits for infringement, as provided for in such
contract, and had not defended the same at their expense,
but that a suit had been begun against defendant by the
National Gas Light and Fuel Company in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

an infringement of the Springer patent; that defendant
requested plaintiffs to defend it, which they had agreed to do,
but that they wholly refused to defend it, and said suit is still
pending; that defendant was compelled to, and did at once,
quit using the apparatus by reason of such suit, and has wholly
ceased to use it.
The third plea averred, in substance, that the plaintiffs
obtained the contract - upon false and fraudulent representations that their patents were not infringements upon any other
patents, which representations the plaintiffs knew to be untrue; that plaintiffs further represented that the National Gas
Light and Fuel Company had begun a suit against them for
an infringement of the Springer patent, and had found that
they had no claim, and assured plaintiffs that no suit would
be brought against defendant by the Gas Light and Fuel
Company, nor by any one else, and that the company had
abandoned all claim that plaintiffs' patents were an infringement upon theirs, which representations were false and
fraudulent to the knowledge of the plaintiffs, who had before
that time been notified by the Gas Light and Fuel Company
that suit would be brought against any one who might use
the apparatus made, by them.
The fourth plea alleged substantially the same representations as the third, dind that, while plaintiffs were -about to
commence the construction, of the apparatus, the National Gas
Light and Fuel Company notified defendant that "the plaintiffs' apparatus was an infringement upon the patents; that
defendant thereupon notified 'plaintiffs that it would not
accept such apparatus, and thereupon plaintiffs proposed that,
if defendant would permit them to proceed, they would, before
asking payment for the same, furnish defendant a good and
sufficient bond indemnifying it against all damages that it
might suffer by reason of any infringement, and upon defendant's accepting such offer, plaintiffs refused to give such bonds
as they had agreed, and still neglect to do so.
To these special pleas a general demurrer was filed by the
plaintiffs, which was overruled by the court, and by leave of
the court,, replications were filed, and upon the issues thus

PRATT v. P&RIS GAS LIGHT .& CO'KE COM ANY.

257

Opinion of the Court.

joined a trial was had, which resulted in a verdict for the
defendant. A motion for a new trial being overruled, and
judgment entered upon the verdict, the case was taken to the
appellate court of Illinois, and from that court to the-Supreme
Court, which affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court,
whereupon plaintiffs sued out a writ of error from this court.
.Xr. John

. Richards for plaintiffs in error.

Mr.- George Hunt and Mlir. James R. Ward for defendant
in error.
MR. JusmiE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The only Federal question presented by the record in this case
turns upon the admissibility of evidence tending to show that
the patents issued to the plaintiffs Pratt and Rtyan were infringements upon a prior patent issued to Springer. Plaintiffs
contend that the state court, by admitting such testimony,
thereby assumed jurisdiction of a patent case, in violation
of Rev. Stat. ยง 711, which declares that "the jurisdiction
vested in the courts of the United States, in the cases and
proceedings hereinafter mentioned, shall be exclusive of the
courts of the several States. . . . Fifth. Of all cases arising under the patent-right or copyright laws of the United
States."
The action, however, was not brought to test the validity
of plaintiff's patents; to recover damage for their infringement, or to enjoin their use by the defendant. The suit was
an ordinary action of assumpsit upon the common counts for
the price of a machine- a patented machine it is true -but
none the less subject to a common law action to recover its
value. No mention is made of a patent in the declaration,
and the contract having been executed, the action was properly brought upon the common counts, notwithstanding the
machine was sold under a written agreement. 2 Greenleaf's
Ev ยง 104. Defendant in its plea sets up the contract, under
VoL cLXv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

which the plantiffs agreed to save the defendant harmless
against any suit which might be brought against it for infringement, and to deferid such suits at their own expense;
and averred, among other ihings, that the patents were void
and an infringement upon prior patents ;* that plaintiffs had
not kept the defendant harmless against suits, but had refused
to defend it against a suit brought by the National Gas Light
and Fuel Company, by reason of which the consideration had
wholly failed, and defendant had rightfully rescinded the contract. Manifestly if the defendant had no right to use the
machine it was of no value to it, and the whole purpose of its
purchase was frustrated.
Had the action been in the Circuit Court of the United
States defendant would obviously have had the right to show
that the plaintiffs' patents were void; and an infringement
upon prior patents as an excuse for rescinding the contract.
Hayne v. Maltby, 3 T. R. 438; Nye v. Raymond, 16 Illinois,
153. Why should it not have the same right in a state court?
It is evident that, unless it can prove the invalidity of the
plaintiffs' patents, it might be completely at their mercy. It
cannot, under our decisions, remove the case to a Federal
court, as one arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, since no claim was made by the plaintiffs in
their declaration under such Constitution or laws. Chappell
v. lFaterworth,155 U, S. 102; Walker v. Collins, 167 U. S. 57;
Tennessee v. Union and Planters' Bank, 152 U. S.454. It
could not file a bill against the National Gaslight and Fuel
Company to test the validity of the patents, since the defendant and not the Fuel Company was the offending party. Nor
could it have compelled the Fuel Company to sue it for an
infringement had that company not chosen to do so. The
Fuel Company did, however, elect to bring such suit, which
the plaintiffs were promptly notified by the defendant to
defend; buo they refused to do this, and now claim that
defendant is incapacitated from contesting the validity of
their patents, which contest they were bound under their
contract to make in the suit brought against the defendant
by the Fuel Company. It is possible a bill would lie in the

PRATT v. PARIS GAS LIGHT & COKE COMPANY.

259

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of the United States to rescind the contract, but
having the right to rescind without suit, it ought not to be
driven to this circuitous remedy.
The action under consideration is not one ariing under
the patent right laws of the United States in any proper sense
of the term. To constitute such a cause the plaintiff must set
up some right, title or interest under the patent laws, or at
least make it appear that some right or privilege will be
defeated by one construction, or sustained by the opposite
construction of these laws. Star'in v. New York, 115 U. S.
248; Germania Ins. Co. v. Visconsin, 119 U. S. 473.
The state court had jurisdiction both of the parties and the'
subject-matter as set forth in the declaration, and it could not
be, ousted of such jurisdiction by the fact that, incidentally to
one of these defences, the defendant claimed the invalidity of
a certain patent. To hold that it has no right to introduce
evidence upon this subject is to do it a wrong and deny it a
remedy. Section 711 does not deprive the state courts of the
power to determine questions arising under the patent laws,
but only of assuming jurisdiction of "cases" arising under
those laws. There is a clear distinction between a case and a
question arising under the patent laws. The former arises
when the plaintiff in his opening pleading- be it a bill, complaint or declaration -sets
up a right under the patent laws
as ground for a recovery. Of such the state courts have no
jurisdiction. The latter may appear in the plea or answer or
in the testimony. The determination of such question is not
beyond the competency of the state tribunals.
The jurisdiction of state courts over patent cases is not
more exclusive than that of the District Courts over cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Yet, when vessels have
passed into the hands of an assignee or receiver, it has been
the constant practice of courts of bankruptcy and equity to
respect the liens given by the maritime law, to marshal such
liens and direct their payment, precisely as a court of admiralty would have done. Scott'a Case, 1 Abbott U. S. 336; In re
Kirkland, 14 Fed. Cases, 677; In re -Peoples'Mail Slteamship
Co., 3 Ben. 226; ]High on Receivers, ยง 138.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

While the question has never arisen in this court, in the
exact form presented in this case, we have repeatedly held
that the Federal courts have no right, irrespective of citizenship, to entertain suits for ihe amount of an agreed license, or
royalty, or for the specific execution of a contract for the use
of a patent, or of other suits where a subsisting contract is
shown governing the rights of the party in the use of an invention, and that such suits not only may, but must, be brought in
the state courts. .Hartellv. Tilghman, 99 U. S. 54:7; Wilson v.
Sanforfl, 10 How. 99; Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S. 613; Goodyear v. Day, 1 Blatchfod, 565; Blanchardv. .prague,.1 Cliff.
288; Dale Tile .Afg;. Co. v. H~yatt, 125 U. S. 46; Wade v.
.Lawder,165 U. S. 621. Although in an action for royalties,
if the validity and infringement of the patent are controverted,
the case is considered 6S one "touching patent rights," for the
purposes of an appeal to this court under Rev. Stat. ยง 699. St.
Paul Plough Works v. Starlinfg, 127 U. S. 376. In this case
the court expressly reserved the question whether the action
should be considered as one arising under the patent laws of
the United States within the meaning of section 711.
We are referred to but one case directly in point which
fayors plaintiffs' contention: Elmer v, Pennel, 40 Maine, 430,
in which, in a suit upon a note given for a patent right, proof
that the patent was void as an infringement upon a prior one
was held not to be admissible without that fact having been
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
There is, however, an overwhelming weight of authority to
the contrary. Beginning with the casb of Bliss v. _l7egus, 8
Mass. 46, in which, in a similar action upon a note, it was
held the defendant might show that the patent had been
obtained by-fraud and perjury, the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts has held steadily to the doctrine that where
the question of the validity of a patent arises collaterally, it,
will take jurisdiction of it. In Dickinsdn v. -all, 14: Pick.
217, evidence thit the patent was void was held to be pertinent
to show a total want of consideration for the defendant's note.
The principal case, however, is that of Nash v. Lull, 102
Mass. 60, in which the opinion of the court was delivered by

PRATT v. PARIS GAS LIGHT & COKE COMPANY.

26i

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Tustice Gray, to the effect that any degree of utility or
practical value in a patent will support the consideration paid
for it; but that if it be wholly void, a note given for it is without consideration, and such issue may be tried in the state
court as well as in the Circuit Court of the United States.
See, also, to the same effect, Bierce v. Stocking, 11 Gray, 174;
Lester v. Palmer, 4 Allen, 145.
Like opinions have been pronounced in the courts of New
Hampshire, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, Indiana,
Wisconsin, Illinois and Missouri; and in all these States the
principle seems well established that any defence which goes
to the validity of the patent is available in the state courts.
In these cases the validity of the patent was attacked upon
different grounds, but we perceive no distinction in the principle involved. The patent may be void because the invention
was well l;n-own before; or because it is useless or immoral;
or because it is an infringement upon other prior patents, and
it is no objection to the jurisdiction of the state court that the
question of validity may involve the examination of conflicting patents, or the testimony of experts. It is the fact of its
invalidity, and not the reasons for it, that is material. The
cases are so numerous and uniform that a bare reference to
them is all that is necessary. Dunbar v. Marden, 13 N. H.
311; Richl v. Atwater, 16 Conn. 409; Sherman v. Champlain
TransportationCo., 31 Vermont, 162; Clough v. Patrick, 37
Vermont, 421; Burrall v. Jewett, 2 Paige Ch. 134; Middlebrook v. Broadbent, 47 N. Y. 443; Continental Store Service
C. v. Clark, 100 N. Y. 365; flead v. Stevens, 19 Wend. 411;
Harmon v. Bird, 22 Wend. 113; Cross v. fluntly, 13 Wend.
385; Saxton v. Dodge, 57 Barb. 84, 115; Geiger v. Cook, 3
W. & S. 266; S7emmer's APpeal, 58 Penn. St. 155, 163;
-McClurev. Jefrey, 8 Indian'a, 79; Nye v. Raymond, 16 Illinois, 153 ; Page v. Dickerson, 28 Wisconsin, 694; Rice v.
Garnhart,34 'Wisconsin, 453; Billings v. Ames, 32 Missouri,
265.
The claim made by the plaintiffs in error, that there was no
competent evidence to show that their patents were an infringement upon the prior patents, was not specially assigned as

OCTOBER TERME, 1897.
Syllabus.

error, either in the appellate court, or in the Supreme Court
of the State, and is not noticed in either of the opinions of
those courts. Under these circumstances it cannot be assigned
as error here.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is, therefore,
Aflirmed.

HODGSON v. VERMONT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 26. Argued October 14, 15, 1897. -Decded

November 29,1897.

The State's attorney of Vermont, under the statutes of that State, filed an
information in the proper court against H., charging that on a day and
at a place named he." did, at divers times, sell, furnish and give -away
intoxicating liquor, without authority, contrary to the form of the statute
in such case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of
the State." At the same time he filed specifications as follows: "In
said case the State's attorney, for a specification, specifies, and says as
follows: That he will rely upon, and expect to prove in the trial of said
cause, the fact, that the respondent, within three years before the filing of
the information in the said cause, sold, furnished and gave away intoxicating liquor to the following named persons, or to some one of them,
that is to say," giving the names without the residences. " And the
undersigned State's attorney states that he has also specified the offences
against said respondent with all the certainty as to the time and person,
and he is now able from all the information he has in said cause; and
the State's attorney reserves the right to amend these specifications if he
shall have further evidence pursuant to the statute. And the State's
attorney further specifies and relies upon the selling, furnishing and
giving away of intoxicating liquor by the respondent within three years
before the filing of said information, to some person or persons now
unknown to the State's attorney, and claims the'right to add the nawes
of such persons, when ascertained, to the specifications, and to make
such other amendments in these specifications as the law and discretion
of the court may admit."
This specification is not required by any
statute, and fornis no part of the information. It is, however, provided
by statute that "when a specification is required, it shall be sufficient to
specify the offences with such certainty as to time and person as the
prosecutor may be able, and the same shall be subject to amendment at
any stage of the trial; and when the specification sets forth-the sale,

