FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC -RAILROAD. 135
Syllabus.

ent that the state Supreme Court assumed that it was dealing
under the assignments of error only with the state constitution, as was also the fact in Zirby v. Pennsylvania Railroad,
76 Penn. St. 506, where the question of the constitutionality of
the first section of the act in question was directly passed
upon, and the section sustained.
We agree with counsel in the statement, made on the application for reargument, in respect of a review of this judgment
by this court because thereby the state Supreme Court had
decided in favor of the validity of the act when drawn in
question as repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
that "the judgment is not in shape for such a review."
Writ of error di8miwseed.

FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE AND POTOMAC
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF dOL MBIA.
No. 56. Argued October 20, 21, 189. - Decided November 1, 1897.
The plaintiff in error was a workman employed by the defendant in error
at its workshop in Washington. Returning from his day's labor, he
stopped at the intersection of South Capitol Street and Virginia Avenue,
to enable a repair train to pass him. -It was and for a long time had
been the custom of the railroad company to allow its workmen, who
went out on the repair train in the morning, to bring back with them on
their return in the evening sticks of refuse timber for their individu'al
use as firewood, and these men were in the habit of throwing their
pieces off the train while in motion, at the points nearest their own homes,
being cautioned on the part of the company not to injure any one in
doing it. As the train passed the plaintiff in error, such a piece of refuse
wood was thrown from it by one of the men. It struck the ground,
rebounded, struck the plaintiff in error, and injured him seriously and
permanently. He sued the company to recover damages. After the plaintiff's evidence was in and he rested, the defendant moved for a verdict
in its favor, which motion was granted. Held, that this was error; that
the question whether the defendant was negligent shuuld have been
submitted to the jury; and that it was for the jury to say whether the
custom on the part of the workmen was known to the company, whether

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
if known it was acquiesced in, whether it was a dangerous custom from
which injury should have been apprehended, and whether there was a
failure, on the part of the defendant, to exercise reasonable care, in
view of all the circumstances, to prohibit the custom and prevent the
performance of the act.
The duty to use ordinary care and caution is imposed upon a railroad company to the extent of requiring from it the.use of reasonable diligence
in the conduct and management of its trains, so that persons or property on the public highway shall not be injured by a negligent or daugerous act performed by any one on the train, either a passenger, or an
employ6; acting outside of and beyond the scope of his employment.
A railroad company owes a duty to the general public, and to individuals
who may be in the streets of a town through which its tracks are laid,
to use reasonable diligence to see to it that those who are on its trains
shall not be guilty of any act which might reasouably be called dangerous and liable to result in injuries to persons on the street, where such
act could bave been prevented by the exercise of reasonable diligence
on the part of the company.
If, through and in consequence of its neglect of such duty, an act is performed by a passenger or employ6, which is one of a series of the same
kind of acts, ahd of which the company had knowledge and in which it
acquiesced, and the act is in its nature dangerous, and a person lawfully
on the street is injured as a result of it, the railroad company is liable.
The fact that the custom had existed for some time without any injuries
having been received by any one is not a legal bar to the liability of
the company.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Franklin H. Mackey for plaintiff in error.
-MT. Wiliam Henry Denni, for defendant in error.
.Enock Totten was on his brief.
MRt. JusTicE PEoRmiA

Mr.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the plaintiff in error to recover
damages from the defendant corporation, for personal injuries
which-he alleged he received by reason of the negligence of
its agents and servants.
-The evidence given upon the trial upon the part of the
plaintiff tended to show that on or about the 16th day of
May, 1890, the defendant was' a railroad corporation doing

FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD.

137

Opinion of the Court.

business in the District of Columbia, and that on the day
above mentioned, at the city of Washington in that District,
the plaintiff was in the employment of the defendant and had
beeni working at its workshop; that he had finished his work
for the day at about a quarter of six in the evening, and leaving the shop had started for his home. When he reached the
intersection of South Capitol Street and Virginia Avenue he
stopped for a moment, and while standing on the pavement
on the south side of the railway track, which was in the
middle of Virginia Avenue, a repair train of the defendant
borporation passed by him on its return from work for the
day. Some of the testimony showed that the train was passing at the rate of twenty miles an hour, while other testimony
showed a much less rate of speed. As the train passed the
-plaintiff one of the workmen on board threw from the car on
which he was standing- a stick of bridge timber about six
inches square and about six feet long. It struck the ground
and rebounded, striking the plaintiff and seriously and permanently injuring him. The defendant had been in the daily
habit for several years of running out, of Washington and
Alexandria a repair train of open fiat cars loaded with its employ~s, and the train returned every evening about six o'clock
and brought the workmen back to their homes. These men
were allowed the privilege of bringing back with them, for
their own individual use for firewood, sticks of refuse timber
left over from their work after repairing the road, 'such as old
pieces of bridge timber, cross-ties, etc. It was the constant
habit of the men during all these years to throw off these
pieces of firewood while the train was in motion at such
points on the road as were nearest their homes, where the
wood was picked up and carried off by some of the members
of their families or other person waiting there for it. The
only caution given the men on the part of the servants or
agents of the company was that they should be careful not to
hurt any one in throwing the wood off. The foreman of the
ghng was the man who usually gave such instruction.
This evidence having been given, the plaintiff rested, and
the defendant then moved for the direction of a verdict in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

favor, which motion.was granted, and the judgment entered
on the verdict having been affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
6 App. D. 0. 385, is now before us for review.
In this ruling of the courts below we think there was error.
We are not called upon to say that the defendant was in
fact guilty of negligence. The courts below have held as
matter of law that the company was not liable, and hence a
verdict in its favor was directed. On the contrary, we think
the question whiether the defendant was negligent was one
which should have been submitted to the jury.
The plaintiff at the time of the accident had finished his
employment for the day, and had left the workshop and
grounds of the defendant, and was moving along a public
highway in the city with the same rights as any other citizen
would have. The liability of the defendant to the plaintiff
for' the act in question is not to be gauged by the law applicable to fellow-servants, where the negligence of one fellowservant by which another is injured imposes no liability upon
the common employer. The facts existing at the time of the
happening of this accident do not bring it within this rule.
A.railroad company is bound to use ordinary care and caution
to avoid injuring persons or property which may be near its
track. This is elementary. Shearman & Redfield on Negligence, (3d ed.) ยง 477 and cases cited .innotes. The duty to
use ordinary care and caution is imposed, as we think, upon
the company to the extent of requiring from it the use of
reasonable diligence in the conduct and management of its
trains, so that persons or" property on the public highway
shall not be injured by a negligent or dangerous act performed-by any one on the train, either a passenger or an
employ6 acting outside and beyond the scope of his employment. The company does not insure against the performance
of such an act, but it rests under an obligation to use reasonable diligence to prevent its occurrence. An act of such a
nature, either by a passenger or by an employ6 outside the
scope of his duties and employment, is not to be presumed,
and therefore negligence on the part of the company in failing to prevent the act could not probably be shown by proof

-

FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD.

139

Opinion of the Court.

of a single act of that kind, even though damage resulted,
where there was nothing to show the company had any
reason to suppose the act would be committed. Negligence
on the. part of the company is the basis of its liability, and
the mere failure to prevent a single and dangerous act, as
above stated, would not prove its existence. The persons on
this train were employ~s, in fact, and were being transported
to their homes by the company, which had, during the time
of such transportation, full control over their actions. Whether
or not they were through with their work is not material.
If the act on the car were such as to permit the jury to find
that it was one from which, as a result, injury to a person on
the street might reasonably be feared, and if acts of a like
nature had been and were habitually performed by those upon
the car to the knowledge of the agents or servants of the defendant, who with such knowledge permitted their continuance, then in such case the jury might, find the defendant
guilty of negligence in having permitted the act and liable
for. the injury resulting therefrom, notwithstanding the act
was that of an employ6 and beyond the scope of his employment and totally disconnected therewith. Knowledge on the
part of the defendant, through its agents or servants, that
passengers or employ~s upon its trains were in the habit of
'throwing out of the windows newspapers, or other light
articles, not in their nature dangerous, would not render the
company liable on the ground of negligence, although on
some one occasion an individual might be injured by such act.
The result in that case would be so unexpected, so extraordinary and so unnatural that a failure to prevent the custom could
not be said to be negligence. But if a passenger upon a train
or an employ6 of the company upon one of its cars should
supply himself with a quantity of stones for'the purppse of
throwing them off the train as it passed through a city, can
it be possible that under such circumstances, if this intended
use of the'stones came to the knowledge of those who had
the conduct of the train, it would not be their duty to prevent
the act? And would it be any answer for the company, when
charged with negligence in knowingly or negligently permit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ting such passenger or employ6 to throw the stones, to say
that the person throwing them was a passenger, or, if an employS, that he had completed his work for the day and was
being transported to his home on the car of the company, and
that the act was without the scope of his employment? Surely
not. It is not a question of scope of employment or that the
act of the individual is performed by one who has ceased for
the time being to be in the employment of the company. The
question is, does the company owe any duty whatever to the
general public, or; in other words, .to individuals who may be
in the streets through which its railroad tracks are laid, to use
reasonable diligence to see to it that those who are on its trains
shall not be guilty of any act which might reasonably be called
dangerous and liable to result in injuries to persons on the
street, where such act could by the exercise of reasonable
diligence on the part of the company have been prevented?.
We think the company does owe such a duty, and if through
and in consequence of its neglect of that duty an act is performed by a passenger or employ6 which is one of a series of
the same kind of act and which the company had knowledge
of and had acquiesced in, and if the act be in its nature a
dangerous one, and a person lawfully on the street is injured
as a result of such an act; the company is liable. Any other
rule would in our opinion be most disastrous, and would be
founded upon no sound principle.
-We feel quite clear that, from the evidence in this case, it
was for the jury to say whether the custom was sufficiently
proved, and whether the act was of a nature from which injury to a person on the street might reasonably be expected,
and also whether such acts had theretofore been performed
with the knowledge and consent of-the agents and servants
-of the defendant, and whether the company was guilty of an
omission of the duty which it owed to the plaintiff as one
of the public, lawfully using the street where the track was.
We do not say that the jury should be instructed to find that
the defendant was guilty of negligence in case they founl
from the evidence that this custom was known to its officers
-or agents, -but we do say that the custom being known,

FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD.

141

Opinion of the Court.

whether it was negligence or not for the company to permit
it under all the circumstances, was a question to be decided
by the jury and not by the court. The company of courseis
not an insurer of the safety of the publio in the highway along
or near which its road may run, but it is bound, as we have
stated, to use reasonable diligence to see to it that no dangerous acts which may result in injury to persons lawfully on
the highway shall be committed by persons who are on its
trains, whether as passengers or employ~s. If it neglect
that duty, then there is a liability on its part to respond in
damages for the injury resulting from that neglect.
The fact that this custom had existed for some time without any injuries having been received by any one is not a
legal bar to the liability. It may be addressed to the jury
as an argument upon the question whether the act was in its
nature dangerous, and whether under all the circumstances
the company was guilty of any negligence in permitting its
continuance; but if the character of the act complained of is
such that a jury might upon the evidence fairly say that
injury to others might reasonably be apprehended, the fact
that none such had theretofore occurred is not an answer
as matter of law to the charge of negligence in continuously
permitting acts of that nature. As against the contention
that this act was not in its nature dangerous it might be
urged to the jury that the caution given to be careful showed
that there might be danger in the performance of the act
itself. It would be for the jury to answer the question.
We are not able to see the bearing upon this case of the
case of WValton v. New York CentraZ &leeping Car Co., 139
Mass. 556. In that case there was but a single act, that of
throwing the bundle from the train by the porter of the
parlor car; there was no evidence that any officer of the company on the train had the least reason to suppose the porter
intended to do the act or that it had been habitually done
before ; no evidence of any custom known to the defendant
by which at that or any other particular point the porter of
the car habitually and frequently threw bundles from the
moving train. Acquiescence on the part of the defendant

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

after knowledge of the custom could not from the one act
be imputed to it. Very probably, a single act so performed
by the porter without the knowledge or assent of the defendant - performed for his own purposes and not in the scope
of his employment, unexpected and wholly disconnected from
not render the defendant liable for the
his duties -would
injuries resulting to a third person from such act. If, however, it had been proven in that case that it was the custom
on the part of the porters on that'car to throw these bundles
off while the train was in motion, and that this custom was
known to the officers of the company, and was permitted by
them, ,with the simple injunction that the porters should take
care andnot hurt anybody,' and if the jury found that the act
was one dangerous in its nature, we think there is no doubt
that the defendant would be liable for the injuries resulting
from any one of such acts.
The, trial court in the case cited, while holding the defendant not responsible, said: "The defendant is not responsible
if the injury to th.e plaintiff was done by Maxwell, the servant
of the defendant, without the authority of the defendant, and
not for the purpose of executing the defendant's orders or
doing the defendant'% work, and not while acting as such
servant in the scope of his employment." The important
point was, it is to be observed, that the act of Maxwell,
although the servant of the defendant, was without its authority, knowledge or acquiescence. In this case, upon the
evidence submitted, the jury might be asked to infer knowledge on the part of the defendant of the existence of the
custom and acquiescence on its part in such custom, and that
therefore the acts of the individuals in throwing the timber
were acts which were performed with the authority of the
defendant. The act would be performed with the authority
of the defendant, if, being aware of the custom, the defendant or its agents permitted such acts and made no effort to
prevent their performance and issued no orders forbidding
them. If the jury should also find that the act was one of
a dangerous nature, from which injury to an individual on
the roadside might reasonably be expected, then the jury

FLETCHER v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD. 143
Opinion of the Court.

might find the defendant guilty of a neglect of duty in permitting its performance.
We do not think the case of Snow v. Fitchburg Railroad,
136 Mass. 552, can be distinguished from this case by reason
of the simple fact that the person injured was a passenger
who was at the station and upon the platform where the
-mail bag was thrown. It may be true the defendant owes
a higher duty to its passengers, in the shape of a greater
degree of care, than it does to the public generally, but it is
a question only of degree. It owes a duty to the public not
to injure any one negligently, and the facts in this case make
it a questioh for the jury to say whether it has not been
guilty of negligence resulting in plaintiff's injury.
Considerable stress was laid upon the case of Walker v.
.Hannilal &QSt. Joseph Railroad, 121 Missouri, 515, as an
authority against the principle which we have above referred
to. We have examined that case and regard the facts therein
set forth as so materially different that the case cannot be
regarded as opposed to the views we have stated. The baggagemaster in gratuitously taking in his car the drills (not
properly baggage) which he threw out at the station as he
passed through, was held not to have been acting within the
scope of his employment, and as there was no proof of knowledge on the part of the railroad authorities, it was held that
the railroad company was not responsible for this act of the
baggagemaster not done in the scope of his emiloyment and
of which they had no notice. It is stated in the opinion that
the trainmaster, the superintendent of the defendant and also
the general agent were all ignorant that the drills were being
carried by the baggageman on the passenger train, and, in
speaking of the act and the arrangement under which it was
performed, the court said: "The arrangement seems to have
been one between plaintiff for the lime company and James,
the train baggageman, with reference to something not in
the line of his employment, and of which his employer had
no knowledge and gave no consent."
Upon the whole, we think it was a question for the jury to
say whether the custom was proved; whether, if proved, it

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

was known to and acquiesced in by those in charge of the
train .as servants of the company; whether it was a dangerous act, from which injury to a person on the street might
reasonably be apprehended, and if so, whether there was a
failure on the part of the defendant to exercise reasonable
care, in view of all the circumstances; to prohibit the custom
and prevent the performance of the act.
For these reasons we are of the opinion that the judgment
should be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia, with directions to reverse the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Districtof columbia and to remand the case to that court with directions
to grant a new trial.

INTERSTATE COMMERGE COMMISSION v. ALABAMA MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 203. Argued March 12, 15, 16, 1897.-Decided November 8, 1697.
Cincinnati,New Orleans & Texas PacificRailway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, and Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati,
New Orleans & Texas Pacific Railway Company, 167 U. S. 479, adhered to,
to the points that Congress has not couf6rred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission the legislative lower of prescribing rates, either
maximum, or minimum, or absolute; and that, as it did not give the
eipress power to the Commission, it did not intend to secure the same
result' indirectly by empowering that tribunal,, after having determined
what, in reference to the past, were reasonable and just rates, to obtain
from the courts a peremptory order that in the future the railroad companies should follow the rates thus determined to have been in the past
reasonable hnd just.
Competition is one of the most obvious and effective circumstances that
make the conditions, under which a long and short haul is performed,
'substantially dissimilar,'and as such must have been in the contempla-

