221:

OCTOBER TERM, 1897,
Statement of the Case.

sustained, and the judgment of the United States Court for
the Indian Territory will be
Reversed and the case remanded,with instruction8 to overrule the plea to the jurisdiotion.

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 12T. Argued November 11, 189T. - Decided November 29,1897.

An examination of the record discloses that none of the complainants, save
one, was assessed with a sufficient amount of taxes, to enable him to
bring the case here on appeal, and accordingly, under the doctrine of
RusseZZ v. StanseZl, 105 U. S. 303, and Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27,
the appeal is dismissed as to such parties.
No jurisdiction vested in the appellant's city council to make an assessment
and levy a tax for the improvements which are the subject of this
controversy until the assent of the requisite proportion of the owners
of the property to be affected "had been obtained, and the action of the
city council in regard to that question was not conclusive.
In order to justify a court of equity in restraining the collection of a tax,
circumstances must exist bringing the case under some recognized head
of equity jurisdiction; and this case seems plainly to be one of equitable
jurisdiction, within that doctrine.
When the illegality or fatal defect in a tax does not appear on the face of
the record, courts of equity regard the case as coming within their
jurisdiction.
When the authorities have jurisdiction to act, the statutory remddy is the
taxpayer's exclusive remedy; but when the statute leaves open to
judicial inquiry all questions of a jurisdictional character, a determination of such questions by an administrative board does not preclude
parties aggrieved from resorting to judicial remedies.

THE original bill in this case was filed in May, 1892, in the
Fourth Judicial District Court of the late Territory of Utah,
against Ogden City, a municipal corporation, and its mayor
and the members of its common council; and it was thereby
sought to restrain the city and its officers from levying assessments upon the real estate of the plaintiffs -and others simi-

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
Statement of the Case.

larly situated, for the purpose of paving a portion of one of
the streets of the city.
To this bill a demurrer was filed, which was sustained by
the District Court, and a judgment was entered dismissing
the bill. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory
that judgment was reversed, and the cause remanded to the
court below. An answer to the bill was then filed, denying
substantially the equities of the bill. Subsequently, on April
9, 1894, a supplemental bill was filed, bringing in additional
parties complainant, and alleging that since the filing of the
original bill the defendants had passed the ordinance assessing the properties of the plaintiffs, and were about to expose
to sale the real estate described in the original and supplemental bills to satisfy the assessments, and threatened to continue to sell said real estate annually for ten years as each
instalment of said assessment became due, whereby the
plaintiffs had been compelled to pay certain amounts, stated
in detail, in order to prevent a sale of their property, and to
prevent a cloud upon their titles; and that certain real estate
belonging to some of the plaintiffs had been sold by the city
to satisfy the illegal assessments. The prayers were for a
decree declaring the ordinance and assessments to be void
restraining the defendants from proceeding thereunder; that
au account be ordered of the amounts paid by plaintiffs under
protest; that plaintiffs have judgment for the same; that the
sales of real estate be set aside, and for general relief. An
answer was filed to the supplemental bill denying specifically
all of its allegations, but admitting that the ordinance in
question was passed as alleged. It alleged affirmatively that
the plaintiffs were estopped to complain as in the supplemental bill alleged; that the same did not state facts sufficient to constitute a supplemental complaint; that the cause
of action was barred by the statute of limitations; that there
was a misjoinder of parties plaintiff, and that there Was a
misjoinder of causes of action.
On the 27th day of October, 1894, findings were signed, and
judgment entered, giving the plaintiffs the relief prayed for
in both the original and the supplemental bill. The decree of
YOL. GLXVM-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the court below was on appeal affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, from whose decree an appeal was
takeni and allowed to this court.
The findings of fact were as follows:
1. That the plaintiffs were at the date of the filing of the
complaint in this action residents and taxpayers in Ogden
City, Weber County, Utah Territory, and brought this action
concerning a matter of general interest to all taxpayers in
said Ogden City on their own behalf and on the behalf of all
others similarly situated.
2. That the defendants, except Ogden City, at the time of
the bringing of this action were the mayor and members of
the common council of said Ogden City, defendant.
3. That on the 7th day of March, 1892, proceedings were
had by the common council of said Ogden City as follows:
"Finance committee recommending immediate creation of
three paving districts as follows: District No. 2, Twentyfifth street from the west line of Washington avenue to the
west line of Wall avenue.
"Councillor Dee moved to lay on the table for one week.
Motion lost.
"Councillor McManis moved to adopt the motion. Carried."
4. That the above were the only proceedings had by said
council of Ogden City in regard to the creation of said paving
district prior to the publication of the notice hereinbelow
mentioned; and upon the same day the following proceedings
were had:
"Councillor Spencer moved the following motion, in pursuance of the proceedings already taken in ordering the creation of three paving districts: ' I move that the council adopt
the accompanying notice of intention, and that the same be
published for twenty days, beginning with to-morrow morning,
Tuesday, March 8th.' Said notice was read and Councillor Dee
moved to lay on the table for one week. Motion lost, Dee
and Elliott voting 'aye;' Calvert, Cannon, Graves, McManis,
Shurtliff and Spencer voting 'nay.' The original motion
was then put and carried, Calvert, Cannon, Graves, McManis,
Shurtliff and Spencer voting 'aye,' and Dee and Elliott voting 'nay.'"

OGDEN CITY v. A]MSTRONG.
Statement of the Case.

5. That thereupon, on March 9th, 1892, in the Ogden Daily
Standard the following notice of intention mentioned above
was published, to wit:
"Notice of intention of the city copncil of Ogden City of
creating a district for paving and of paving and macadamizing
the streets therein and to defray the expenses of such improvement by local assessment.
"The city council of Ogden City, situate in the county of
Weber, Territory of Utah, gives notice that it intends to make
the following improvements, to wit, pave and macadamize thefollowing streets: Twenty-fifth street from *the west line of
Washington avenue to the west line of Wall avenue. This
district shall be known as paving district No. 2. The boundaries of the district to be affected and benefited are the lines
running one hundred and fifty feet back and parallel with the
outer lines of each side of the streets on each and every block
and for the full length thereof therein. , The estimated cost
of such improvement is $40,000. For the payment of the
costs and expenses thereof the city council intends to levy
local taxes upon the real estate lying and being within said
paving district and to the extent. of the benefits to such property by reason of such improvement. The city council will,
on March 29, 1892, at 10 A. M., hear objections in writing and
from any and all persons interested in said local assessment.
By order of the city council:
"T. P. BRYiw, City Recorder.",
6. That on March 29, 1892* at 9.55 o'clock, D. H. Peery
and sixty-eight others, including all the plaintiffs in this
action and in the supplemental complaint, who were then the
owners of real property within the said paving district No. 2
and with frontage on Twenty-fifth street within the said paving district, filed a protest with the said recorder of said
Ogden City, protesting against the levying of any local assessment against or upon their property for the purpose of paving
said street within said district; that said persons so protesting
owned and protested for more than one half of the whole

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

frontage on said Twenty-fifth- street within said district, to
wit, 2414 feet; that, after said hour of 10 A.M. of said day
certain persons who had protested to the amount of 3024 feet
withdrew, their protests, leaving at all times 21111 feet frontage on said Twenty-fifth street in said district still protesting
against the said local assessment; that the total number of
feet fronting on said Twenty-fifth street in said paving district,
as mentioned in said notice of .intention above set forth, was
3960, of which 660 feet belonged at said time and still belong
to said Ogden City and were then and are now used for public
purposes by the said city, and 125 feqt of said frontage wver6
then and are now the property of the said Ogden City, and
was public school property, used and owned for public schools.
7. That notwithstanding said protest of said abutting property owned on said Twenty-fifth street in said paving district
No. 2, and without giving any other or further notice except
as hereinbefore stated, the said city council, on the 4th day of
April, 1892, -passedthe following resolution, to wit:
"Resolved, That the city proceed as speedily as- possible to
the paving of Twenty-fifth street district with Utah sandstone
blocks;, that the city engineer be instructed to prepare the
necessary specifications at once and submit the same at the
next meeting of the council; that the competition of said
work be restricted to bonafide residents of Ogden, and that so
far as it is possible only Ogden labor be employed in the performance of the work."
8. That on May 2, 1893, said city council of Ogden City
passed a resolution instructing the city recorder to advertise
for bids for the paving of Twenty-fifth street in said district;
which notice was as follows:
"To paving contractors: Bids will be received by the city
recorder of Ogden City until 12 o'clock m.May 23, 1892, for
the paving of Twenty-fifth street, in Ogden City, from Washington to Wall avenue, according to the specifications of the
city-engineer of Ogden.City, on file in the city recorder's office.
Competition is restricted to bonaflde residents of Ogden City.
The city reserves the right to reject any and all bids. Specifications will be furnished on application to the city recorder."

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
Statement of the Case.

9. That no specifications had been made by the city prior to
this time, but afterwards new specifications were made and
filed providing for the paving, grading, and curbing of said
Twenty-fifth street, and were adopted by the city council;
which specifications provided for the paving of'said street
with asphaltum and the sides of the street with sandstone
blocks and curbing the street, and the contract which was
awarded for the doing of said work provided that the contractor should keep the said street in repair for two years after
the work upon the same was finished.
10. That the plaintiffs in this action were at the date of
the filing of the complaint herein', to wit, May 21, 1892, the
owners of the real property mentioned in the compla:ut, but
upon the trial of this action it appeared that John Broom and
William Chapman were deceased; Samuel Chapman, administrator of the estate of William Chapman, and Hester Broom,
administratrix of the estate of John Broom, were substituted
as plaintiffs, and said other parties were still the owners of the
property mentioned as belonging to them in the complaint in
this action.
11. That said plaintiffs had upon filing their complaint obtained a temporary injunction against the said defendants, but
afterwards a demurrer to said complaint was sustained by the
said court and said complaint ordered dismissed; which ruling
was afterwards by the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah reversed, and the said cause was ordered remanded, with
directions to the defendant to answer said complaint..
12. That the said council, in spite of the protest hereinbefore mentioned, proceeded and 4t the time of the filing of the
complaint in this action had upon its passage the ordinance
attached as Exhibit B to the complaint in this action, and
afterwards, on the 22d day of March, 1893, passed the ordinance which is hereto attached and marked Exhibit A and
made a part of these findings.
13. That on the 9th day of April, 1894, the plaintiffs filed
a suppleme~ital complaint in this action and asked that Mathias Biel, Joseph Clark, George W. Lashus, Lamoni Grix,
Carl Sorenson, J. E. Horrocks and Ann Horrocks, J. S. Lewis,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Lindsey R. Rogers, Patrick Healey, Joseph Morely, Zilpha J.
Stephens, W. C. Warren, Almira C. Baker, D. H. Stephens,
Mary A. Stephens, Elizabeth Stephens and The Ogden Union
Depot and Railway Company, a corporation, be made parties
to this action; which supplemental complaint was ordered by
the court to be filed; that at the time of the filing of the supplemental complaint the said parties (except The Ogden De-,
pot and Railway Company, a corporation) were and still are
the owners of real estate fronting on said Twenty-fifth street
(and said plaintiff last named was the owner of real estate assessed with said special tax, but not included in said paving
district) included in said paving district, and upon the trial of
this action D. H. Peery, Jr., and The Realty Company of Kittery, Maine, a corporation, and J. Pingree and ZilphaJ. Stephens, Carrie Lewis and George W. Murphy were added as
parties plaintiff, and were at the date and still are the owners
of real estate in said district fronting on said Twenty-fifth
street, the pleadings having been allowed to be amended bythe court in accordance with such facts.
14. That said Ogden City, in -pursuance of said ordinance
of March 22, 1893, was about to expose the real estate described in the original and supplemental complaints to sale
to satisfy the illegal assessment imposed by said ordinance,
and that the -parties plaintiff in' this action, after their said
property had been advertised for sale and was about to be
sold to satisfy the said illegal assessment then due, paid under
protest to said Ogden City, in order to prevent the.sale of
their property, the following amounts, to wit, 5. C. Armstrong, $95.04; Mathias Biel, $63; Joseph Clark, $48; Samuel
Chapman, for the William Chapman estate, $49.20; Joseph
Clark, for Clark, Emmet and Thompson, $30; William
Driver, $60; H. I.- Griffin, $23.76; Lamoni Grix, $24.90;
Ann Horrocks and James E. Horrocks, $124.80; Geo. W.
Lashus, $60; H. D. and 5. S. Lewis, $82.09; Carrie Lewis, $30;
Joseph Arorely, $36; Patrick Healey, for Patterson and
Healey, $30; Joseph Clark,- for Patterson and Clark, $60;
L. R: Rogers, $74.041; J. H. Spargo, $48; D. M. Stephens,
$141.70; Carl S. Sorenson, $20.40; W. C. Warren, $48;

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
Statement of the Case.

Geo. M. Kerr, guardian of the Nichols heirs, $160.08;

D. H. Peery, Jr., $24; Realty Company of Kittery, Maine,
$748.80; Job Pingree, $35.40; Ogden Union Depot and
Railway Company, a corporation, $118.80; Geo. W. Murphy,
$154.20.
15. That said plaintiffs are without any speedy and adequate remedy at law for the recovery of said amounts without a great multiplicity of suits, and said assessment consti7
tutes a cloud upon the title of the various plaintiffs to their
several parcels of realty, And that said city asserts that it W;ill
annually for nine years hereafter levy assessments upon said
real estate for the payment of said paving and collect the
same from the said parties plaintiff, and has already caused to
be sold the property of certain of the plaintiffs under and by
virtue of said assessment.
16. That.the number of feet frontage in said paving district was 3300, as the same is described in the ordinance,
Ex. A; that the difference between the district described in
the ordinance and the district described in the notice of intention consisted of 660 feet of the public property of the
said Ogden City, and the lots affected by the said assessment
and described in said ordinance varied in depth, some being
75 feet deep and others 150 feet deep, and that the property
owned by the various parties plaintiff in- this action varied
greatly in depth; that no ascertdinment of aptual benefits
to the property assessed was ever made in order to determine
the amount of assessment or to determine whether the amount
assessed exceeded the actual benefits to the property by reason
of the improvement, but the cost of the improvement was assessed upon the property abutting and fronting upon Twentyfifth street within the said paving district at an arbitrary rate
of $12 per front foot without any finding or attempt to find
the ambunt of actual benefits to the property; that the said
improvement was made without any general plan and form
of public improvement having been adopted by the said
Ogden City, and the actual benefits to the property assessed
for said improvement were not equal and uniform, nor was
said assessment equal and uniform.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

. . . .Whip le for appellant.
on his brief.

Mr. T. D. Joinson was

.Mr. . .A.Allison, Jr., for appellees.
MR. JusTIcBa SHERAS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of. the court.
The first question to be determined is whether the amount
in controversy is sufficient to give us jurisdiction of the appeal.
Although no motion was made to dismiss-the appeal, it was
.suggested at the argument that, as it was not competent to
make up the sum ;necessary to give this court jurisdiction by
uniting the several sums for which each taxpayer was liable,this was such a, case, and. that therefore we should dismiss the
appeal.
Undoubtedly, it is the well-settled rule of this court that,
in a suit in equity brought in the Circuit-.Court by two or
more persons on several and distinct demands, the defendant
can appeal to this court as to those plaintiffs only to each of
whom more than five thousand dollars is decreed. Russell v.
Stansell, 105 U. S. 303, was a case in its facts much like the
present one. There land within a particular district was
assessed for taxation, each owner -being liable only for the
amount wherewith he was separately charged; a bill of complaint was filed by a number of them, praying for an injunction against the collection of the assessment, and from a
decree dismissing the bill an appeal was taken to this court.
It was held that, while the complainants were permitted, for
convenience and to save expense, to unite in a petition setting
forth the grievances of which complaint was made, the object
-was to relieve each separate owner from the amount for
which he personally, or his property, was found to be accountable, and that such distinct and separate interests could not
be united for the purpose of making up the amount necessary
to give this court jurisdiction on appeal.
The same conclusion was reached in Gibson v. Shufeldt,
122 U. S. 27, where the previous cases were fully discussed.

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

An examination of this record discloses that none of the
complainants, save one, was assessed with an amount sufficient
to have enabled him to bring the case here on appeal, and
accordingly, under the doctrine of the cases cited, this appeal
must be dismissed as to such parties.
But it appears that the Realty Company of Kittery, a
corporation of the State of Maine, a party complainant in
the supplemental bill, had been assessed, under the ordinance
'complained of, for the sum of $748.80, as an instalment for
one year, and had been compelled to pay the same, and that
the city was threatening to continue said proceedings and to
sell the real estate of said company annually for nine years
as each instalment for a like sum became due. The liability
of that company then, under the ordinance and assessment
complained of, amounted. to the sum of $7488, and as that
company could, had the decree of the court below been
adverse to it, have brought the case here on appeal, so, upon
the authorities above referred to, it is competent for the
defendant city to do the same.
Upon the merits, the first and most important question to
considev is whether the city council had jurisdiction to assess
and collect the paving tax.
The proceedings were initiated and the tax sought to be
levied and collected under the provisions of chapter 41 of the
Session Laws of 1890 of the late Territory of Utah. The
thirteenth section thereof reads as follow :
"In all cases before the levy of any taxes for any improvements provided for in this act the city council slall give
notice of intention to levy said -taxes, naming the purposes
for which the taxes are to be levied, which notice shall be
published at least twenty days in a newspaper published
within said city. Such notice shall describe the improvements
so proposed, the .boundaries'of the district to be affected or
benefited by such improvements; the estimated cost of such
improvements, and designate the time set for such hearing.
If at or before the time so fixed written objections to such
improvements signed by the owners of one-half of the front
feet abutting upon that portion of the street, avenue or alley

OCTOBER TERMIf, 1897.
Opinion of the .Court.

to be so improved be not filed with the recorder, the council
shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction to order the
making of such improvements."
The bill alleged, the answer admitted, and the trial court
found that the notice of intention to pave in district Ko. 2,
and to defray the expenses thereof by levying a local tax on
abutting property owners, was published on March 9, 1892,
and in which it was stated that the city council would on
March 29, 1892, at 10 o'clock A. X., hear objections in writing
from any and all persons interested in said local assessment.
The sixth finding of the trial court was as follows:
"That on March 29th, 1892, at 9.55 oclock, D. H. Peery and
sixty-eight others, including all the plaintiffs in this action
and in the supplemental complaint, who were then owners of
real property within the said paving district Nwo. 2, and with
a frontage on Twenty-fifth street within the said paving district, filed a protest with the said recorder of said Ogden City
protesting against the levying of any local assessment against
or upon their property for the purpose of paving said street
within, said district; that said persons so protesting owned
and protested for more than one-half of the whole frontage
on said Twenty-fifth street within said district, to wit, 2414:
feet; that after said hour of 10 A.M. of said day certain -persons who had protested to the amount of 3029 feet withdrew
their protests, leaving at all times 21-11 feet frontage on said
Twenty-fifth street in said district still protesting against said
local assessment; that the total number of feet fronting on
said Twenty-fifth street in said paving district, as mentioned
in said notice of intention above set forth, was 3960 feet, of
which 660 feet belonged at said time and still belongs to said
Ogden City, and was then and is noW used for public purposes
by. said city, and 125 feet of said frontage was then and is
now the property of the said Ogden City, and was public
school property, used and owned for public schools."
It is contended on behalf of the appellant that the city
council, on April 4, 1892, determined That less than half of
the whole frontage had protested, and that, as the city council
was acting judicially in a proceeding duly inaugurated, such

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

action cannotbe reviewed in an equitable action to restrain
the collection of the tax, but should be reviewed, if at all, by
certiorari, in which action the whole record would be removed
to the District Court.
So far as this proposition involves questions of facts as to
the proportion of frontage covered by the protests, we, of
course, accept the finding, on that subject made by the trial
court, and approved and adopted by the Supreme Court of the
Territory. Stringfellow v. Gain, 99 U. S. 610; Haw8 v. Vitoria C pper .Mining Co., 160 U. S. 303:
But the argument seems to be that when once that question
of fact was determined by the .city council, proceeding under
the statute, their determination cannot afterwards be challenged in a collateral proceeding; that while it would not be
conclusive in an action by certiorari to set aside the assessment,
it is conclusive as against a proceeding by injunction to prevent the collection of the tax. It is said that the jurisdiction
of the city council attached when by resolution or ordinance
and publication it gave notice of its intention to make the
improvement in question.
We agree with the courts below in thinking that no jurisdiction vested in tle city council to make an assessment or to
levy a tax for such an improvement, until and unless the
assent of the requisite proportion of the owners of the property to be affected had been obtained, and that the action of
the city council in finding the fact of such assent was nU
conclusive as against those who duly protested. The fact of
consent, by the requisite number, in this case to be manifested
by failure to object, is jurisdictional, and in the nature of a
condition precedent to the exercise of the power.
"Where the power to pave or improve depends upon the
assent or petition of a given number or proportion of the proprietors to be affected, this fact is jurisdictional, and the finding of the city authorities or council that the requisite number
had assented or petitioned is not, in the absence of legislative
provision to that effect, conclusive; the want of such assent
makes the whole proceeding void." (Dillon's Municipal Corporations, vol. 2, sec. 800, 4th edition, where numerous cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court,'

from the different States are cited in support of that proposition.)
In Zeigler v. Hopkins, 117 U. S. 683, a similar question was
thus stated and decided:
"There is in reality but a single question presented for our
consideration in this case, and that is whether, in an action
of ejectment brought to i ecover the possession of lands sold
for the nonpayment of tales levied to defray the expenses of
opening Montgomery Avenue generally, and not in obedience
to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction to meet some
particular liability which had been judicially established, the
landowner is estopped from showing, by way of defence, that
the petition for the opening presented to the mayor was not
sighed by the owners of the.requisite amount of frontage;
and this depends on whether the owner is concluded, (1), by
th6 acceptance of the .petition by the mayor and his certificate as to its sufficiency and the action of the board of public
works thereunder; or, (2), by the judgment of the county
court confirming the report of the board of public works.
"This precise question was most elaborately considered
by the Supreme Court of California in Mulligan v. Smith,
59 California, 206, and decided in the negative, after full argument. With .this conclusion we are entirely satisfied. It is
supported by both reason and authority."
It is.next contended on behalf of the appellant that if the
city council wrongfully took jurisdiction, in face of the facts
shown in or upon the face of its own proceedings, then the
tax was absolutely void on its face, and the plaintiffs must
seek their remedy at law; and further, if the city council
wrongfully and falsely made its record to show facts sufficient to give it jurisdiction, when 'such facts never existed,
then in order to, get into equity plaintiffs must plead all such
facts, and that even in such a case certiorari is, under the
laws of Utah, a plain and perfect remedy.
It is doubtless true that the collection of a tax will not be
restrained on the ground that it is irregular or erroneous.
Errors in the assessment do not render the tax void; and
usually there are legal remedies for all such mere irregulari-

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

ties and errors as do not go to the foundation of the tax, and
parties complaining must be confined to these. As was held
by this court in Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108: "A suit in
equity will not lie to restrain the collection of a tax on the
sole ground that it is illegal. There must exist in addition
special circumstances, bringing the case under some recognized head of equity jurisdiction, such as that the enforcement of the tax would lead to a multiplicity of suits or
produce irreparable injury, or, where the property is real
estate, throw a cloud upon the title of the complainant."
But the present case would seem plainly to be one of equitable jurisdiction within the doctrine of that case. What is complained of is no mere irregularity or error in the assessment.
As we have seen, there was an entire want of jurisdiction in
the common council to proceed for want of the assent of the
requisite proportion of property owners, and the assessment
and tax were, therefore, void. That there was no plain and
adequate remedy by certiorari would seem to be evident.
Upon that writ nothing could have been shown by evidence
of facts outside of the record. It is true that, in some of the
States, provision is made by statute to bring such evidence in,
but such is not shown to have been the case here. It is an
admitted fact upon the face .of the pleadings that the common council actually found that the necessary jurisdictional
fact existed, and that such a finding was made a matter of
record. The plaintiffs alleged in their bill and the defendants
in their answer denied that the finding of the jurisdictional
fact by the common council was an untrue finding. Such an
issue required evidence dehors the record of the proceedings
before the council in order to impeach their finding. The
record of this case discloses that a large amount of oral evidence was introduced by the complainants, and admitted
without objection by the defendants, to show ownership by
the protesting parties, and to show that the common council
were mistaken in finding that the requisite number had not
protested.
Not only, however, was there a want of an adequate remedy
in proceeding by a writ of certiorari, but, we think, equitable

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction was properly invoked to prevent a multiplicity-of
suits, anc also to relieve the plaintiffs from a cloud upon their
title.
The finding on this fact of the case was as follows:
"That said plaintiffs are without any speedy and adequate
remedy at law for the recovery of said amounts without a
great multiplicity of suits, and said assessment constitutes a
cloud upon the title of the various plaintiffs to their several
parcels of realty, and that said city asserts that it will annually for nine years hereafter lay assessments upon said real
estate for the payment of said paving and collect the same
from the said parties plaintiff, and has already caused to be.
sold the property of certain of the plaintiffs under and by virtue of said assessment."
If a tax is a lien upon lands, it may then constitute a cloud
up6 n the title; and one branch of equity jurisdiction is the
removal of apparent clouds upon -the title, which may diminish the market value of the land, and possibly threaten a loss
of it to the owner. It is doubtless true that it has been held
by this. and other courts that if the alleged tax has no semblance of legality, and if upon the face of the proceedings it is
wholly unwarranted lVy law, or for any reason totally void, as
disclosed by a .mre inspection of the record, such a tax would
not constitute'a cloud, and that the jurisdiction which is exercised by courts of equity, to relieve parties by removing
clouds upon their titles, would not attac.
But when the illegality or fatal defect does not appear on
the face of the record, but must be shown by evidence aliunde,
so that the record would make out a primafacie right in one
who should become a purchaser, and the evidence to rebut
this case may possibly be lost, or become unavailable from
death of witnesses, or when the deed given on a sale of the
lands for the tax would be presumptive evidence of a good
title in the purchaser, so that the purchaser might rely upon
the deed for a recovery of the lands until the irregularities were shown, courts of equity regard the case as coming
within their jurisdiction, and have extended relief on the
ground that a cloud on the title existed or was imminent.

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

.Dowsv. Chicago, 11 Wall. 198; Hannewinkle v. Georgetown,
15 Wall. 54:7.
Undoubtedly, for merely irregular assessments, where the
authorities have jurisdiction to act, the statutory remedy is
also the exclusive remedy. But when the statute, as in this
case, leaves open to judicial inquiry all questions of a juris'dictional character, it is well settled that a determination of
such questions by an administrative board does not preclude
parties aggrieved from resorting to judicial remedies.
Thus in Emery v. Bradford, 29 California, 75, the Supreme
Court of California, while holding that the remedy of an
owner of a lot in San Francisco assessed for work on a street
in front of the same, if dissatisfied with the decision of the
superintendent of public streets, is an appeal from such decision to the board of public supervisors, and that, if the proceedings are such that the proper officers have jurisdiction to
act, their determinations are valid and can only be reviewed
in the mode provided by the statute, said: "That where there
are acts to be performed of a jurisdictional character essential
to the validity of the assessment, it is not to be supposed that
the conclusivdness of the decision of the board of supervisors
is to extend to that class of cases."
So in WVight v. Boston, 9 Cushing, 273, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in holding that objections to a
tax for some defect or irregularity in making the assessment
must be taken advantage of by appeal, stated the proposition
thus: "For any defect or irregularity in the course of proceeding in making the assessment, any ground of objection,
which does not go to show the whole proceedings a nullity,
the owner must take his appeal, if he has one."
In Union Pacif#c Railway v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S.516, 525,
this court, through Mr: Justice Bradley, said:
"But it is contended that the complainant should have
sought a remedy at law and not in equity. It cannot be
denied that bills in equitkr to restrain the collection of'taxes
illegally imposed have frequently been sustained. But it is
well settled that there ought to be some equitable ground for
relief besides the mere illegality of the tax; for it must be

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

presumed that the law furnishes a remedy for illegal taxation.
It often happens,. however, that the case is such that the person illegally taxed would suffer irremediable damage, or be
subjected to vexatious litigation, if he were compelled to resort
to his legal remedy alone. For example, if the legal remedy
consisted only of an action to recover back the money after it
had been collected by distress and sale of the taxpayer's lands,
the loss of his freehold by means of a tax sale would be a
mischief hard to be remedied. Even the cloud cast upon his
title by a tax under which a sale could be made would be a
grievance which would entitle himto go into a court of equity
for relief."
Numerous cases to the same effect may be found cited in
6
Cooley on Taxation, 543.
Again, it is contended on behalf of the appellant, that the
defendants cannot recover the taxes paid by them under protest because the Session Laws of, Utah, 1890, sec. 1, p. 38, provide that "any party, feeling aggrieved by any such special
tax or assessment or proceeding, may pay said special tax
assessed or levied upon his property, or such instalments
thereof as may be due, at any time before the same shall be
delinquent, under protest, and with notice in writing to. the
city collector that he intends to sue to recover the same, which
notice shall particularly state the alleged grievances and
.grounds thereof; whereupon such party shall have the right.
to bring a civil action within sixty days thereafter, and not
later, to recover so much of the special tax as he shall show to
be illegal, inequitable and unjust, the cost to follow the judgment, to be apportioned by the court as may seem proper,
which remedy shall be exclusive."
As respects this contention we agree with the Supreme
Court of the Territory, that this statute applies to cases where
there are only errors, irregularities, overvaluations or other
defects which are not jurisdictional, but that where the
council, not having the jurisdiction to levy the tax, could
not proceed under the statute, the taxpayers need not proceed under the statute to recover the money -paid. Where
the tax was wholly void and illegal, as in this case, the

DENNISON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

statute and its remedies for errors and irregularities have no
application.
Our conclusion is that the decree of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah, so far as it respects the Realty
Company of Xittery, is affirmed, and that as to the other
appellees the appeal is dismissed.

DENNISON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 84.

Argued and submitted November 2, 189T.- Decided November 29, 189T.

To entitle a supervisor of elections to a valid claim against the Government,
he must make it appear that the services performed were required by the
letter of Rev. Stat. ยง 2020 and ยง 2026, or were such as were actually and
necessarily performed in the proper execution of the duties therein
prescribed, and that his charges therefor are covered by Rev. Stat.
ยง 2031, or, if not fixed in the very words of that section, that by analogy
to some other service, he is entitled to make a corresponding charge.
If the services whr'e only performed for his own convenience, or were manifestly unnecessary or useless, even if they be such as he judges proper
himself, they cannot be made the basis of a claim against the Government.
It is held that the applicant, a chief supervisor, should have been allowed
for drawing instructions to supervisors, and, in the absence of proof to
the contrary, for the full amount of his claim for auditing claims of
and drawing pay rolls of supervisors, and certifying the same to the
marshal ; and all the other claims, enumerated in the opinion of the
court, are disallowed.
The ruling in Cromwell v. Sao County, 94 U. S. 351, that when a second
action between the same parties is upon a different claim or demand, the
judgment in the prior action operates as an estoppel only as to those
matters in issue or points controverted, upon the determination of
which the finding or verdict was rendered, affirmed and applied.

THis was a petition by the Chief Supervisor for the Notthern
District of New York for fees and disbursements connected
with the general election of 1890, amounting to $16,612.79, of
which $2752.60 were disallowed by the Treasury Department;
for like fees anid disbursements connected with the general
VOL. cLxvm-16

