OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Statement bf the Case.

CRESPIN '. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND OLAX.
No. 6. Argued October 12,1891. -Decided

November 15,1897.

The plaifitiffs claimed as heirs and legal representatives of the original
grantees under a grant alleged to have been made March 24, 1840, by
"the prefect or superior political chief of the district of Bernalillo," in
the Republic of Mexico. There was no evidence that the grant"of the
prefect ever received the sanction or fapproval of the governor, the
ayuntamiento, or other superior authority of the Mexican Republic.
Hld, that it was beyond the power of the prefect alone to make the
grant in question.
Possession of land so granted after the 'date of the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, however exclusive and notorious, cannot be regarded as an element going to make up a perfect title.

THis was a' petition by Crespin and about forty others for
the confirmation of 'What is commonly known as the San
Antonito grant, situated in Bernalillo County, New Mexico,

and alleged: to contain 32,000 acres.
Plaintiffs claimed as the heirs and legal representatives of
the original grantees, and set forth in their petition that, on
March 24, 1840, the Republic of Mexico, through Antonio
Sandoval, "the prefect or superior political chief of the district of Bernalillo, thereunto duly authorized by the laws,.
usages, customs, superior orders and decrees of the said Republic; or of its duly constituted and competent authorities,"
granted and delivered possession of this tract of land unto
the grantees therein named; that the original grant or expediente of title remained in the office and formed a part of the
archives of lhe said prefect, and that an official copy or testimonio was at the time delivered to the grantees -as a complete
and final title in fee.
That the petitioners were unable to find the original exyediente, which, with a large part of the other public archives,
was lost, destroyed or stolen, and that the official copy, or
t 8timonio, had also been stolen; but- that, while the exyediente was in the archives of the prefecture, a testimonio, or

CRESPIW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

true copy, thereof was made by one Rumaldo Chaves for his
own use, and that such copy was, prior to 1846, transferred
and delivered by said Chaves, by indorsement thereon, unto
Gaspar Atencio, one of the grantees of the original grant, for
his uses and' purposes, and has ever since remained in his
possession.
The petitioners further alleged, upon information and belief, that the grant was finally confirmed and approved by
Governor Manuel Armijo and the departmental assembly, and
that by virtue thereof an allotment was made in severalty to
each of the grantees, and juridical possession given to such
grantees by Jos6 Trujillo, in accordance with the decree of
the prefect and the laws then competent and in force in said
territory, and that the grantees since then have been in open
and notorious possession of the tract. The remaining allegations of the petition are immaterial.
Upon the trial of the case, plaintiffs offered in evidence a
petition addressed to "Selior Prefect Don Antonio Sandoval"
by "Juan Jos& Garcia and Gaspar Atencio, residents of the
demarkation of Albuquerque," stating that they and their constituents, finding themselves without tillable land by which to
subsist, "and there being back of the Sandia Mountain a tract
of land called San Antonito, the fertility of which and the increase of whose waters all invite its cultivation, by this means
the commendable promotion of agriculture and the progressive benefit of the petitioners will be accomplished," they inform the prefect "that it is fifteen years, a little more or less,
since this tract was donated to Cristobal Jaramillo, deceased;
yet, moreover, in all this space of time, said land has not been
cultivated at all, and" if this has been forfeited in accordance
with our laws, we humbly beg your honor to be pleased to
grant us what we ask, as it is without prejudice to a third
party."
In compliance with this petition, the prefect, signing himself simply "Sandoval," made an order, under date of March
1, 1840, that the petition be transmitted to the justice of the
peace of Los Ranchos to report in detail the nature of the
land and the need of the petitioners.
VOL. CLXVm-14

= OCTOBER- TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

On the following day, Jos6 Trujillo, the justice, filed his
report, stating that, after having fully informed himself as to
the nature of the lands, "it is fitted for agriculture, very pleasing and very delightful for a life of tranquillity, very favorable
to everything for.a most comfortable living," and that the petitioners are in need of landed property, with the exception of
three persons named, who are known to have land, but do not
count upon it, because they are in debt and have it secured by
said lands, and that all the others have not such property.
*Upon this repbrt Sandoval made the following decree:
"BARELAS, Mar. 24:, 1840.
"One of the most commendable and beneficial things to a
people being the promotion of agriculture, let this petition be
transmitted to the justice of the peabe of Los .Ranchos, in
order that with all the customary formalities he give the
possession solicited by the parties in interest,- without prejudice to a third party, and only for cultivation the lands
necessary, leaving free the pastures and watering places,
which under no circumstances ought to be interfeied with;
and after this is done he shall make a full report to this
prefecture.
"1FR.NoIsco SAP.RAOINO, Secretway.
SANDOVAL."

In compliance with this decree, Trujillo, justice of the peace,.
reported that he had given juridical possession of the lands to
the petitioriers and their associates to the number of twentyseven, who were each given one hundred varas, except two
of the petitioners, who were given one hundred and fifty, in
the usual form of livery of seizin under Spanish grants.
The testirnonio, or official copy of these papers, was not
made by the secretary -of the Prefect Sandoval, but by
Rumaldo Chaves, the clerk of the justice of the peace Trujillo,
and seems to have been made for the personal use of Chaves,
and afterwards transferred by indorsement to Gaspar Atencio,
who appears, from the document, to have been one of the
leading petitioners, and received, according to th6-allotment,
one hundred and fifty z'aras.

CRESPIN v. UITETED STATES.
Counsel for Appellants.

Plaintiffs next offered in evidence the following hijuela, or
certificate of allotment, executed April 11, 1810, by Jos6
Trujillo, purporting to show an allotment of one hundred
varas of land at San Antonito to Vicente Samora under the
decree of the prefect Sandoval:
"The citizen Jos6 Trujillo, justice of the peace of the
jurisdiction of los ranchos de Albuquerque, does hereby certify in form of law that one hundred varas of land at San
Antonito were donated to Vicente Samora in dccordance
with and as stated in the general grant made by me, the
said justice'of the peace, by virtue of the decree of March
24th made by the prefect Don Antonio Sandoval. The foregoing certificate is given at the ranchos this 11th day of April,
3840, I signing it with my two attending witnesses, to which I
certify.
"Josh TRtnLLo. [RuuBio.]

"Attending witness:
"Ru1RALDo CHivEZ.

[RUBRc.]

"Attending witness:
"Pto

RoMANr SIsNERos.

[nulmi.]"

Plaintiffs further offered to refer to other cases and documents for the purpose of showing that other grants had been
made by prefects, which were recognized .and confirmed by
the proper Mexican authorities, and, also, that several of such
grants had been confirmed by the Congress .of the United
States.
These documents were all objected. to by the Government,
and were admitted subject to these objections. Some further
explanatory oral testimony was introduced in support of petitioners'. claim, but no evidence was offered on behalf , f the
Government.
Upon this state of facts, the court delivered judgment, dis:
missing the petition and rejecting the grant, whereupon the
plaintiffs appealed to this court.
MAIr. llenry.-H..Earle for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

.&. .Matthew G. Reynolds for appellees.
eraZ was on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICoE

BROWN,

Mr. Solicitor Gen-

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The principal question urged upon the attention of the court
in this case is whether, under the laws of Mexico, as they existed in 1840, it was within the power of a prefect to make a
grant of public lands.
In endeavoring to ascertain what were. the laws of Mexico
at any particular time, of which we are bound to take judicial
notice, Frnemont v. United States, 17 How. 542, 557; Romero,
v. United States,'1 Wall. 721, we are somewhat embarrassed
by the frequency with which the government was changed
usually by revolutionary violence -between -the time the
Republic gained its independence in 1821 and the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848, under which the northern provinces.
of Mexico were ceded to the United States. These changes
were sometimes accompanied by decrees annulling the acts
of previous governments, cancelling grants, and putting new
regulations in force with respect to the disposition of public
lands. That these difficulties are of long standing is evident
from the Comments of Chief Justice Marshall in the case of
Soulard v. United States, 4 Pet. 511, in which the court announced itself as unable to form a satisfactory judgment by
reason of its inability to obtain proper information with
regard to the laws and principles upon which the transfer
of Spanish titles depended, and therefore postponed the
final disposition of the case until such information could be
obtained.
In view of this and similar difficulties, this court, as early
as 1832, in United States v. -Arredondo,6 Pet. 691, laid down
as a general proposition that the grant itself was prima facie
evidence of its own validity, and that it would be presumed
to have been regularly issued until the contrary appeared, or
such reasons were offered for doubting its authenticity as
were sufficient in law to rebut the legal presumption. To

CRESPIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the same effect are United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436; and
United States v. Perheman,7 Pet. 51; Strother v. Lucas, 12
Pet. 410, 437; Reynolds v. West, 1 California, 322, 326; Jones
v. Garza, 11 Texas, 186, 207.
The courts of California have carried this principle so far as
to hold, though apparently with some fluctuation of opinion,
that a grant of a pueblo lot made by an alcalde raises a presumption that the alcalde was a proper qualified officer; that he
had authority to make the grant, and that the land was within
the boundaries of the pueblo. Reynolds v. West, 1 California,
322; Cohas v. Raisin, 3 California, 443; Hart v. Burnett,
15 California, 530; Payne v. Treadwell, 16 California, 220;
Leese v. Clarke, 18 California, 535; -Donner v. Palmer, 31
California, 500.
In considering their methods of disposing of public lands,
this court has had frequent occasion to uphold the validity of
grants made by the Governors of the Spanish and Mexican
provinces, who appear to have been sometimes also called
"Political Chiefs." Indeed under the regulations for the
colonization of the Mexican territories of November 21, 1828,
the political 'chiefs were expressly authorized to grant the
public lands of their respective territories. Reynolds' Land
Laws, 141; United States v. Workman, 1 Wall. 745, 761;
Rornsby v. United States, 10 Wall. 224, 231; YFanderslice v.
Hanks, 3 California, 27; Leese v. Clarke, 3 California, 17;
Leese v. Clarke, 18 California, 535, 546; but see Jones v.
Garza, 11 Texas, 186. A similar power seems also to have
been vested in the Spanish intendants. Reynolds' Land Laws,
59, 60; United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436, 452.
Prefects were functionaries well known in the Roman law,
and under the empire were clothed with extensive powers,'
both judicial and administrative. With the decline of the
empire they seem to have lost their importance and to have
finally disappeared; but, after remaining in abeyance for some
hundreds of years after its fall, the office was revived in the
eighth year of the French Republic, (1800,) and bestowed upon
the heads of the departments into which the country had been
divided by the N.ational Assembly in 1790. In the perform-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the CourL

ance of their duties they were aided by a council of prefecture. The prefect was charged with the administration of
local affairs, and was practically the representative of the
central government in public matters. The title was carried
into several States, whose legislation was frdmed upon the
model of the Code Napoleon, but, until the establishment of
the Republic, was apparently unknown in Mexico. It seems
to have been recognized, however, prior to 1836, since by the
constitutional law or decree of December 29 of that year, defining the powers of the president and governors, there was
given to the latter the authority "to appoint the prefects, to
approve the appointment of the sub-prefects of the department, to confirm that- of the justices of the peace, and to
remove any of these officials." Reynolds, 205.
By the law of March 20, 1837, for regulating provisionally
the interior governments of the departments, it is provided,
by article one, that "the interior government of the departments shall be in charge of the governors, departmental councils, (juntas,) prefects, sub-prefects, cdmmon councils, alcaldes
and justices of the peace" ; that -it shall be the duty of the
governors to appoint the prefects, etc. The power of the
prefects is thus defined: Article 77: "They shall regulate
administratively and in conformity with the laws, the distribution of the common lands (tierras comunes), in the towns
of the district, provided there is no litigation peinding with
regard to them, the right being reserved to the parties in interest to apply to the governor, who, without further appeal,
shall decide what is most proper, with the concurrence of
the departmental council (junta)." Reynolds, 221. This is the
only act to which our attention is called which defines their
functions.
It is difficult io say exactly what is meant by the power
"to regulate administratively" the distribution of the common lands in the towns of the district. But it would not
seem to include the power to make grants of public lands
generally, though it might have justified in this case the
special allotment (ijuela) to Vicente.Samora, had it been
made by the prefect. The power given to the governor to

CRESPI

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

make grants of public lands, which was expressly given by
the regulations of November 21, 1828, (though the constitutional. decrees of 1836 and 1837 were silent upon the subject,)
taken in connection with the limited powers conferred upon
the prefects by the law of March 20, 1837, apparently preclude
the idea that the more general power of granting public lands
was intended to be conferied upon the latter - in other words,
the limited authority conferred upon them by Article 77 repels
the inference of more extensive powers which had theretofore
been vested in the governors, and in the governors alone.
Plaintiffs' counsel offered to show in this connection that
other grants had been made by prefects, which had been
recognized and confirmed by the proper Mexican authorities, and that several such grants had been confirmed by the
Congress of the United States; but they were not regarded
by the court below as sufficient to establish a general custom
'to recognize grants made by prefects as valid and legal. Indeed, the power given to prefects to regulate administratively
the distribution of the common lands would seem to presuppose a prior grant to the pueblo, made by a higher authority,
and to have been intended merely to authorize the prefect to
make distribution of such common lands among the inhabitants of the pueblo.
The only case we have been able to find in which the power
of prefects to make grants of public lands is discussed is that
of Ohm v. San _Fancisco, 92 California, 437. In that case
the complaint alleged that the State of California was, prior
to July 13, 1848, a political department of the Republic of
Mexico, and was subdivided into pueblos, constituting political municipalities, supplied with such officials as the republic
or governor chose to appoint; that such officers could grant
and distribute lands of the municipalities; that the pueblo of
Yerba Buena, or San Francisco,. was one of such municipalities, and was provided with a prefect appointed by the Republic and the governor of California, who was empowered,
among other things, to make a grant and distribution of
lands to private persons in fee within his district and said
municipality. It seems that the grant in this case had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

approved by the governor of the department by virtue of his
superior power to grant vacant lots within the boundaries of
the Republic, and had been subsequently confirmed by the
District Court.
The rarity of the question involved, and the special familiarity of the Supreme Court of California with Spanish and
Mexican land grants, will justify a somewhat lengthy transcription from its opinion concerning the power of prefects:
"We cannot find," said the court on page 451, "in any of the
laws or ordinances of Spain and Mexico to which we have
been referred any authority conferred upon prefects to make.
grants in fee of the pueblo lands. It is not contained in the
decree of the Spanish Cortes of January 4, 1813, nor in the
plan of Pitic, nor in the Mexican law of colonization of 1824,
nor in the regulations of 1828, nor, we think, in the law of
March 20, 1837, to which the prefect himself refers as the
source of his authority. The clause of this act, cited and
relied on by the appellant, is given in the original Spanish
and in translation, at page 314, addenda, Dwinelle's Colonial
History of San Francisco. In terms, it merely authorizes the
prefects in their respective districts to ' regulate executively'
the distribution of the common lands of the pueblos, provided
there are no law suits -pending in the courts concerning them,
saving a right of appeal to the governor. The law writers
do not agree in their construction of this article. Dwinelle
thinks it conferred authority to make grants of the pueblo
lands for the pueblo. Halleck thinks that.it merely conferred
a power to regulate the temporary use of the common lands.
This court has decided that it did not expressly confer power
to grant lands in private ownership. .Hartv.Bu?,nett, 15 Cal.
572. As a matter of history it is known that the prefects
very rarely attempted to exercise such power, not more than
two or three instances, including this grafit to Scherrebeck,
appearing in the records of San Francisco, and one of those
subsequent to the conquest, by Horace Hawes. It is also well
known as a 'fact and-as matter of law that the claim of such
power by the prefects has been repudiated by the city from
the beginning. The complaint here shows that the validity

CRESPIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

,of this Scherrebeck grant was denied by the city as early as
1853, and ever since. The Van Ness ordinance passed in 1855,
and ratified by the legislature in 1858, practically confirmed
all previous grants of pueblo lands made by any ayuntamiento,
town council, alcalde or justice of the peace of the former
pueblo, or of the city, but was entirely silent as to grants by
prefects. Even the allegations of the complaint do not show
that the prefect had power as agent and acting in behalf of
the pueblo to alienate its lands in fee. He is said to have
authority to'make grants and distribution of lands within the
pueblo limits, but this power may have been derived from
the departmental authorities and exercised independently and
against the will of the municipal authorities. And this
appears to have been the case with the Scherrebeck claim ;
the making of the grant was opposed by the alcalde, the only
municipal officer who appears to have had anything to dowith it, but it was approved by the governor and the superior
authorities."
In the case under consideration there was no' evidence.
that the grant of the prefect ever received the sanction or
approval of the governor, the ayuntamiento, (town council,)
or other superior authority of the Mexican Republic; and we
do not think the fact that similar grants may have been confirmed by Congress, or received the approval of the Mexican
authorities, is decisive in favor of recognizing its validity. In
its adjudication of these cases, the Court of Private Land
Claims is subject to certain statutory restrictions upon which
previous confirmations by Congress of imperfect grants have
no proper bearing. Rio Arriba Co. v. United States, 167 U. S.
298, 308. We are of opinion that it was beyond the power
of the prefect to make the grant in. question.
Nor do we think that petitioners are entitled to this grant
by prescription or adverse possession, since under section
thirteen of the act creating the Court of Private Laud Claims,
the title to the land must have been "lawfully and regularly
derived from the government of Spain or Mexico," and one
which, if not complete and perfect at the date of the acquisition of the property by the United States, "the claimant

OCTOBER TERM, -1897.
Syllabus.

would have had a lawful right to make perfect had the territory not been acquired by the United States." This would
preclude the idea, that possession since the date of the treaty,
however exclusive and notorious, could be regarded as an
element going to make up a perfect title. There was no
evidence of more than six or eight years' possession prior
to the date of the treaty, and this, under any construction
of the Spanish or Mexican laws, would be insufficient to constitute a title as against the sovereign. Indeed, it may be
open to doubt whether under the legislation of Mffexico publio
lands are not imprescriptible; but if it be otherwise, it would
seem that under the decree of the King of Spain of July 16,
1819, nothing less than a-possession of forty years could be
deemed or respected as creating title by adverse possession.
2 White's New Recopilacion, 562.
The disposition we have made of this case renders it unnecessary to consider whether the document offered in evidence to establish the plaintiffs' title, 'which was neither the
expediente, nor the testimonio, or official copy thereof - and
was merely an unsworn and unverified copy of the testimonia
-

was admissible at all..

If there be any hardship to the petitioners in the rejection
of this grant, they must apply for relief to another department of the Government. We are bound by the language
of the act creating the Court of Private Land Claims. Its
decree in this case was correct, and it is therefore
Affirmed.
ROFF v. BURNEY.
* RROR TO THE UNITED

STATES

COURT

FOR THE INDIAIf

TERRI-

TORY.
No. 84. Submitted October 15, 1897. -Decided November 29;1897.

A right of citizenship in an Indian Nation, conferred by an act of its legislature, can be withdrawn by a subsequent act; and this rule applies to
citizenship created by marriage with such a citizen.
Whether anyights of property could be taken away by such subsequent
act, is not considered or decided.

