UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
Counsel for Parties.

protection of the laws, and that such inquiry is not precluded
or ended by the mere fact that the judgment complained of
was reached by proceedings in a state court in pursuance of
the provisions of a state statute. But we are contented to
close this discussion by quoting the language of this court in
-E
'arC
Converse, 137 U. S. 624: "We repeat, as so often
has been said before, that the Fourteenth Amendment undoubtedly forbids any arbitrary deprivation of life, liberty
or property, and in the administration of criminal justice
requires that no different or higher punishment shall be
imposed on one than is imposed on all for like offences, but
it was not designed to interfere with the power of the State
to protect the lives, liberty and property of its citizens; nor
with the exercise of that power in the adjudications of the
courts of a State in administering the process provided by the
law of the State."
Finding no error therein, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Vermont is
Afirmed.
UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 296. Submitted October 26, 169T. -Decded

November 29, 1897.

When a consul of the United States, in his regular accounts and settlements

with the Treasury, charges himself with fees received by him as consul
for which he is not obliged to account, and pays the same into the
Treasury with each settlement, and retires, and makes his final settlement with the Treasury on the same basis, he cannot, in an action
commenced in the Court of Claims three years after his retirement,
recover back such payments, but they will be regarded as wholly voluntary payments.

T

ase is stated in the opinion.

.M. Attorney Gemral and .Mr.Felix B'anniganfor appellant.
.Mr. 7oin S .Aosby for appellee.
voL. CLxVm-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTIcE PEC;KHAm

delivered the opinion of the court

The Court of Claims in this case gave judgment in favor of
the appellee upon these facts: Thomas B. Van Buren, a citizen of the United States, was appointed consul-general of the
United States at the port of Yokohama, Japan, and held office
from June, 1874, until June, 1885. While at Yokohama, Mr.
Van Buren received fees for certifying invoices of merchandise
shipped from that port through the United States in bond to
foreign countries amounting to the sum of $4115, which fees
were paid into the Treasury of the United States under the
rules, regulations and requirements of the Departments of
State and Treasury, requiring fees to be so accounted for
and paid to the United States. There were 1646 of these invoices. Of the merchandise so shipped, that covered by 523
of the invoices was stopped in transit, for consumption in the
United States without further consular certificates, and the
declarations or invoices and certificates made by the consul
were 9ccepted by the customs officers of the United States as
sufficient. The fees collected for certifying these 523 invoices
amounted to $1307.50. The merchandise described in 478 of
the 1646 invoices passed in transit through the United States
to foreign countries, and was exported from the United States.
The.fees collected for certifying these invoices amounted to
$1195. With regard to 645 of the 1646 invoices, there was.
no evidence either- that the merchandise described in the
invoices was stopped in transit and eitered for consumption
in the United States, or that it passed in transit through the
United States to foreign countries. The fees collected for
certifying these invoices amounted to $1612.50. Mr. Van
Buren's accounts for the total of all these among other fees
were settled at the Treasury Department, and in the settlements he was charged with these as for official fees.
The Court of Claims found that it was not shown that the
reason for paying said fees into the Treasury was to avoid
controversy with any department of the Government, or that
Mr. Van Buren made any demand to have the fees refunded to
him, or credited to him before said accounts were finally set

UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

tled, or that before the final settlement of his accounts at the
Treasury Department he made any objection or protest against
said fees being charged to him as official fees. The court
gave the claimant judgment for the total of the three sums
above mentioned, being $4115.
The judgment in this case was mainly based by the court
below upon the case of United States v. MAfosby, 133 U. S, 273,
and it was there held that the invoices referred to in sections
2853 and 2855, Revised Statutes, either as they stood originally, or as they were amended by the act of June 10, 1880,
did not include invoiees for the shipment of merchandise in
transit through the United States to other countries, and that
the law did not require a consul to issue certificates in such
cases; that no provision" was made for a fee for them in the
regulations of 1874, or those of 1881, dnd that it did not
appear that the 'regulations of the Treasury Department
required a consul to perform any duty in relation to-such
goods. The claim .of the claimant in regard to such fees was
allowed as a proper claim against the Government.
It is stated in the brief of counsel for the Government herein
that in the l osby case neither the Court of Claims nor this
court was given the benefit of any information as to what
transit invoices were, and it is now said that both the courts
were mistaken in holding that the invoices in the .Mosby caso
were not those referred to in the above-numbered sections of
the Revised Statutes; and it is said that it now appears by the
evidence before the court that such invoices are the identical
invoices described by those sections, and that section 2860, in
providing that, "no merchandise imported from any foreign
place or country shall be admitted to an entry unless the invoice presented in all respects conforms to the requirements of
sections 2853, 2854: and 2855, and has thereon the certificate
of a consul, vice-consul or commercial agent in thosesections
specified," makes it necessary to have the consular certificate
given in this case.
We are not now called upon to question the decision in the
.Mosby case. We think there is another ground upon which
to base a reversal of the judgment herein, which is, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

payments made by Mr Van Buren of the fees covered by his
claim were wholly voluntary, and that the general rule applicable to voluntary payments should be enforced.
The petition in this case was not filed until the 30th of
March, 1888, and Mr. Van Buren's term of service expired
in June, 1885. From the commencement of that service in
1874 up to the termination of his office and the final settlement, of his accounts, no whisper of any claim on his part
against the Government was ever heard from Mr. Van Buren.
It does not appear that he had the least doubt that the Government was entitled to all the fees paid over by him to it,
and in all the various settlenignts of his accounts with the
Treasury Department, and in his correspondence, so far as
this record shows, no claim was ever made or hint given on
his part that he had the least title to retain these fees or to
recover them back if paid to the Government. There is no
pretence that he paid the fees into the Treasury to avoid a
controversy with any department of .the Government, or that
he ever made any objection or protest against the fees being
charged to him as official fees. The Court of Olaims so finds
in substance. If a voluntary payment can he made to the
Government, it seems. to us that this is such a case, and unless
it be declared that the law of voluntary payments is not
applicable to the case of a payment by an official to the
Government, we think the payments made by the original.
claimant were voluntary. This is not a case of an order or
direction for the payment of these moneys, given to Mr. Van
Buren by the officers of the Treasury or State Departments;
nor is it a case where the failure to pay the moneys might be
regarded as disobedience to the peremptory order of a superior officer; nor a payment under duress. The facts show
nothing but a voluntary payment of money to the Government, without claim of any right to retain one penny of it.
In United States v. Lawson, 101 U. S. 164, the collector
received an order in Writing from the commissioner of customs, his superior, requiting him to account for all fees received by him as collector. Under that order he paid the
fees in controversy into the Treasury, and it was held that

UNITED STATES v. WILSON.

277

Opinion of the Court.

having thus pai4 them pursuant to a peremptory order of his
superior officer, he was not precluded from thereafter recovering them in a suit against the United States.
To the same effect is United States v. Ellsworth, 101 U. S.
170, where the ruling in the Lawson case is followed. In the
-llswort case the court said, after referring to the penalties
for non-compliance with the requirements of-the law in paying
over moneys: "Viewed in the light of these penal provisions,
the payments in question made under the peremptory order of
the commissioner cannot be regarded as voluntary in the sense
that the party making them is thereby precluded from maintaining an action to recover back so much of the money paid
as he was entitled to retain. Call it mistake of law or mistake
of fact, the principles of equity forbid the United States to
withhold the same, from the rightful owner."
In both of the cases, in addition to the general law upon the
subject of moneys received for the use of the United States to
be paid into the Treasury, there was a distinct and peremptory
order that the moneys in question should be paid, and it was
in compliance with such order from a superior officer that the
moneys were paid.
In Swift Comyvany v. United States, 111 U. S. 22, tle payments were held to benot voluntary because the purchaser of
the stamps from the Government had to take them on the
terms which the Government imposed or else go out of business.. In that case, however, it appeared that the leading
manufacturers of matches, among whom was William H.
Swift, (who upon the organization of the claimant corporation in 1870 became one of its large stockholders and treasurer,) had made repeated protests to the officers of the Internal
Revenue Bureau against the methods adopted by it in computing commissions for proprietary stamps sold to those who
furnished their own dies and designs. It appeared that the
rule of the department was one adhered to during the mvhole
tinde of its existence, and it was announced by the Internal
Revenue Commissioner that such ruling would not be altered,
and as it was necessary for those in the business to have the
stamps in order to continue their business, it was held by this

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

court that they were not obliged to continuously protest, and
that settlements made with the Treasury officials upon the
basis of the correctness of the custom of the department in
regard to the sale of stamps and commissions thereon did not
bar the claimant's right to recover the moneys which the department ought to have paid but did not; that the position of
the parties was such as to render these continuous protests unnecessary. Various cases are cited by Mr. Justice Matthews,
-in delivering the opinion of the court, showing what amounts
to an involuntary payment.
In the -Mosby case, supra, it appears that the claimant
asserted his right to the moneys and had correspondence with
the officers of the department in relation thereto, and only
paid the moneys to avoid a contest with -his superior officers.
Nothing in any case cited is inconsistent with the view that
the payments in this case were. wholly voluntary in their
nature, and as such cannot be recovered back.
For these reasons, without considering other questions appearing in the record, we think the judgment below should be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Court of -laimswith
instructions to dismiss thepetition.

HOLTZMAN v. DOUGLAS.
IRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF -APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 80. Argued November 1,189T. -Decided

November 29, 1891.

The plaintiff claimed under one Hall,
This was an action of ejectment.
former owner of the laud. The defendants claimed under one Douglas,
The defendants set up adverse
who bought it at a tax sale in 1865.
possession in defence. The court instructed the jury that to defeat the
claim of the plaintiffs upon the defence of adverse possession the jury
must find from the evidence that the defendants, in person or by their
tenants, have for more than twenty years prior to the 31st day of lMay,
1889, held actual, exclusive, continuous, open, notorious and adverse
-possession of the said premises, and they cannot extend their possession

