SKIRIOTES v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

SKIRIOTES v. FLORIDA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 658.

Argued March 14, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

1. A State has power to govern the conduct of its citizens upon.
the high seas with respect to matters in which the State has a
legitimate interest and where there is no conflict with Acts of
Congress. P. 77.
2. The Florida statute forbidding the use of diving equipment for
the purpose of "taking commercial sponges from the Gulf of
Mexico, or the Straits of Florida or other waters within the
territorial limits of the State of Florida" is not in conflict with
an Act of Congress which prohibits taking, in those waters, outside of state territorial limits, sponges of less than a particular
size. P. 74.
3. The Florida regulation is within the competency of the State, regardless of the question of territorial limits, when applied to a
citizen of the State found taking sponges with diving equipment at a point two marine leagues off the west shore-line of the
State. Pp. 74, 79.
144 Fla. 220; 197 So. 736, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a conviction under
§ 5846 Rev. Gen. Stats.; § 8087 Comp. Gen. Laws, 1927,
of Florida.

Mr. W. B. Dickenson for appellant.
Mr. Nathan Cockrell, Assistant Attorney General of
Florida, with whom Mr. J. Tom Watson, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellant, Lambiris Skiriotes, was convicted in the
county court of Pinellas County, Florida, of the use on
March 8, 1938, of diving equipment in the taking of
sponges from the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Florida

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

in violation of a state statute. Compiled General Laws
of Florida (1927), § 8087. The conviction was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Florida (144 Fla. 220; 197 So.
736) and the case comes here on appeal.
The case was tried without a jury and the facts were
stipulated. The statute, the text of which is set forth
in the margin,' forbids the use of diving suits, helmets
or other apparatus used by deep-sea divers, for the purpose of taking commercial sponges from the Gulf of
Mexico, or the Straits of Florida or other waters within
the territorial limits of that State.
The charge was that appellant was using the forbidden
apparatus "at a point approximately two marine leagues
from mean low tide on the West shore line of the State
of Florida and within the territorial limits of the County
of Pinellas." The state court held that the western
boundary of Florida was fixed by the state constitution
of 1885 at three marine leagues (nine nautical miles)
from the shore; that this was the same boundary which
had been defined by the state constitution of 1868 to
which the Act of Congress had referred in admitting
the State of Florida to representation in Congress. Act
of June 25, 1868, 15 Stat. 73. The state court sustained
the right of the State to fix its marine boundary with
'The statute, originally § 4 of Chapter 7389 of the Laws of
Florida of 1917, carried forward as § 5846 of the Revised General
Statutes of Florida and as § 8087 of the Compiled General Laws of
1927, is as follows:
"It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation
to maintain and use for the purpose of catching or taking commercial sponges from the Gulf of Mexico, or the Straits of Florida
or other waters within the territorial limits of the State of Florida,
diving suits, helmets or other apparatus used by deep-sea divers.
"Anyone violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined in the sum not exceeding five hundred dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment." See Lipscomb v. Gialourakis, 101 Fla. 1130; 133 So. 104.

SKIRIOTES v. FLORIDA.
69

Opinion of the Court.

the approval of Congress, and concluded that the statute
was valid in its application to appellant's conduct.
By motions to quash the information and in arrest
of judgment, appellant contended that the constitution
of Florida fixing the boundary of the State and the
statute under which he was prosecuted violated the Constitution and treaties of the United States; that the
criminal jurisdiction of the courts of Florida could not
extend beyond the international boundaries of the
United States and hence could not extend "to a greater
distance than one marine league from mean low tide"
on the mainland of the State and adjacent islands
included within its territory.
In support of this contention appellant invoked several provisions of the Constitution of the United States,
to wit, Article I, § 10, Clauses 1 and 3, Article II, § 2,
Clause 2, Article VI, and the Fourteenth Amendment.
Appellant also relied upon numerous treaties of the
United States, including the Treaty with Spain of February 22, 1919, and the treaties with several countries,
signed between 1924 and 1930, inclusive, for the prevention of smuggling of intoxicating liquors. There were
also introduced in evidence diplomatic correspondence
and extracts from statements of our Secretaries of State
with respect to the limits of the territorial waters of
the United States. These contentions were presented
to the highest court of the State and were overruled.
The first point of inquiry is with respect to the status
of appellant. The stipulation of facts states that appellant "is by trade and occupation a deep-sea diver
engaged in sponge fishery, his residence address being
at Tarpon Springs, Pinellas County, Florida," and that
he "has been engaged in this business for the past several years." Appellant has not asserted or attempted to
show that he is not a. citizen of the United States, or
that he is a citizen of any State other than Florida, or

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

that he is a national of any foreign country. It is also
significant that in his brief in this Court, replying to
the State's argument that as a citizen of Florida he is
not in a position to question the boundaries of the State
as defined by its constitution, appellant has not challenged the statement as to his citizenship, while he does
contest the legal consequences which the State insists
flow from that fact.
It further appears that upon appellant's arrest for violation of the statute, he sued out a writ of habeas
corpus in the District Court of the United States and
was released, but this decision was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Cunningham v. Skiriotes,
101 F. 2d 635. That court thought that the question of the statute's validity should be determined in
orderly procedure by the state court subject to appropriate review by this Court, but the court expressed doubt
as to the right of the appellant to raise the question,
saying: "Skiriotes states he is a citizen of the United
States resident in Florida, and therefore is a citizen
of Florida. His boat, from which his diving operations
were conducted, we may assume was a Florida vessel,
carrying Florida law with her, but of course as modified
by superior federal law." Id., pp. 636, 637.
In the light of appellant's statements to the federal
court, judicially recited, and upon the present record
showing his long residence in Florida and the absence
of a claim of any other domicile or of any foreign allegiance, we are justified in assuming that he is a citizen
of the United States and of Florida. Certainly appellant has not shown himself entitled to any greater rights
than those which a citizen of Florida possesses.
In these circumstances, no question of international
law, or of the extent of the authority of the United
States in its international relations, is presented. International law is a part of our law and as such is the law

SKIRIOTES v. FLORIDA.
69

Opinion of the Court.

of all States of the Union (The Paquete Habana, 175
U. S. 677, 700), but it is a part of our law for the
application of its own principles, and these are concerned
with international rights and duties and not with domestic rights and duties. The argument based on the limits
of the territorial waters of the United States, as these
are described by this Court in Cunard Steamship Co. v.
Mellon, 262 U. S. 100, 122, and in diplomatic correspondence and statements of the political department
of our Government, is thus beside the point. For, aside
from the question of the extent of control which the
United States may exert in the interest of self-protection
over waters near its borders, although beyond its territorial limits,2 the United States is not debarred by
any rule of international law from governing the conduct of its own citizens upon the high seas or even in
foreign countries when the rights of other nations or
their nationals are not infringed. With respect to such
an exercise of authority there is no question of international law,' but solely of the purport of the municipal
law which establishes the duty of the citizen in relation
to his own government. American Banana Co. v. United
FruitCo., 213 U. S. 347, 355, 356; United States v. Bowman, 260 U. S. 94; Cook v. Tait, 265 U. S. 47; Blackmer
v. United States, 284 U. S. 421, 437. Thus, a criminal
statute dealing with acts that are directly injurious
2See

Jessup, "The Law of Territorial Waters and Maritime Ju-

risdiction," Introductory Chapter, p. XXXIII, also pp. 9 et seq., 80
et seq.; Church v. Hubbart, 2 Cranch 187; The Grace and Ruby,
283 F. 475; The Henry L. Marshall, 286 F. 260, 292 F. 486; United
States v. Ford, 3 F. 2d 643; 40 Harv. L. R. 1.
- Oppenheim, International Law, 4th ed., Vol. I, § 145, p. 281;
Story, Conflict of Laws, 8th ed., § 540, p. 755; Moore's International
Law Digest, Vol. II, pp. 255, 256; Hyde, International Law, Vol.

I, § 240, p. 424; Borchard, Diplomatic Protection of Citizens Abroad,
§ 13, pp. 21, 22,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

to the government, and are capable of perpetration
without regard to particular locality, is to be construed
as applicable to citizens of the United States upon the
high seas or in a foreign country, though there be no
express declaration to that effect. United States v.
Bowman, supra,4 The Bowman case arose under § 35
of the Criminal Code. 18 U. S. C., § 80. Another illustration is found in the statute relating to criminal
correspondence with foreign governments. 18 U. S. C.,
§ 5. In Cook v. Tait, supra, we held that Congress
could impose a tax upon income received by a citizen
of the United States who was domiciled in a foreign
country although the income was derived from property
there located. In Blackmer v. United States, supra, the
validity of an Act of Congress requiring a citizen of the
United States residing in France to return to this country
for the purpose of giving testimony and the service of
a subpoena upon him personally by an American consul
were sustained.
For the same reason, none of the treaties which appellant cites are applicable to his case. He is not in a
position to invoke the rights of other governments or
of the nationals of other countries. If a statute similar
to the one in question had been enacted by the Congress
for the protection of the sponge fishery off the coasts of
the United States there would appear to be no ground
upon which appellant could challenge its validity.
The question then is whether such an enactment, as
applied to those who are subject to the jurisdiction of
Florida, is beyond the competency of that State. We
have not been referred to any legislation of Congress
with which the state statute conflicts. By the Act of
'As to venue of prosecutions for offenses committed upon the
high seas or elsewhere out of the jurisdiction of any particular
state or district see 28 U. S. C., § 102.

SKIRIOTES v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

69

August 15, 19141 (38 Stat. 692, 16 U. S. C., § 781), Congress has prohibited "any citizen of the United States,
or person owing duty of obedience to the laws of the
United States" from taking "in the waters of the Gulf
of Mexico or the Straits of Florida outside of state territorial limits" any commercial sponges which are less than
a given size, or to possess such sponges or offer them for
sale. But that Act is limited to the particular matter
of size -and does not deal with the divers' apparatus
which is the particular subject of the Florida statute.
According to familiar principles, Congress having occupied but a limited field, the authority of the State to protect its interests by additional or supplementary legislation otherwise valid is not impaired. Reid v. Colorado,
187 U. S. 137, 147, 150; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501,
533; Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346, 350; Kelly v.
Washington, 302 U. S. 1, 10. It is also clear that Florida
has an interest in the proper maintenance of the sponge
fishery and that the statute so far as applied to conduct
within the territorial waters of Florida, in the absence
of conflicting federal legislation, is within the police
power of the State. Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139
U. S. 240, 266. See, also, Cooley v. Board of Port Wardens, 12 How. 299; Morgan's S.S. Co. v. Louisiana, 118
U. S. 455; Compagnie Francatse v. Board of Health, 186
U. S. 380; MinnesotaRate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 402-410;
Californiav. Thompson, post, p. 109. Nor is there any
repugnance in the provisions of the statute to the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
statute applies equally to all persons within the jurisdiction of the State.
Appellant's attack thus centers in the contention that
the State has transcended its power simply because the
5

This Act repealed the Act of June 20, 1906, 34 Stat. 313, which
was before this Court in the case of The Abby Dodge, 223 U. S. 166.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

statute has been applied to his operations inimical to
its interests outside the territorial waters of Florida. The
State denies this, pointing to its boundaries as defined
by the state constitution of 1868, which the State insists
hac1 the approval of Congress and in which there has been
acquiescence over a long period. See Lipscomb v. Gialourakis, 101 Fla. 1130, 1134, 1135; 133 So. 104; Pope v.
Blanton, 10 F. Supp, 18, 22.6 Appellant argues that
Congress by the Act of June 25, 1868,' to which the state
court refers, did not specifically accept or approve any
boundaries as set up in the state constitution but merely
admitted Florida and the other States mentioned to
representation in Congress. And, further, that if Congress can be regarded as having approved the boundaries defined by the state constitution, these have been
changed by the treaties with foreign countries relating
to the smuggling of intoxicating liquors, in which the
principle of the three-mile limit was declared.
But putting aside the treaties, which appellant has
no standing to invoke, we do not find it necessary to resolve the contentions as to the interpretation and effect
of the Act of Congress of 1868. Even if it were assumed
that the locus of the offense was outside the territorial
waters of Florida, it would not follow that the State
could not prohibit its own citizens from the use of the
described divers' equipment at that place. No question
as to the authority of the United States over these waters,
or over the sponge fishery, is here involved. No right
of a citizen of any other State is here asserted. The
question is solely between appellant and his own State.
The present case thus differs from that of Manchester v.
Massachusetts,supra, for there the regulation by Massa6 The bill in this case was dismissed because of the absence of the

jurisdictional amount.
115 Stat. 73.

Pope v. Blanton, 299 U. S. 521.

SKIRIOTES v. FLORIDA.
69

Opinion of the Court.

chusetts of the menhaden fisheries in Buzzards Bay was
sought to be enforced as against citizens of Rhode Island
(Id., p. 242) and it was in that relation that the question whether Buzzards Bay could be included within
the territorial limits of Massachusetts was presented and
was decided in favor of that Commonwealth. The question as to the extent of the authority of a State over
its own citizens on the high seas was not involved.
If the United States may control the conduct of its
citizens upon the high seas, we see no reason why the State
of Florida may not likewise govern the conduct of its citizens upon the high seas with respect to matters in which
the State has a legitimate interest and where there is no
conflict with acts of Congress. Save for the powers committed by the Constitution to the Union, the State of Florida has retained the status of a sovereign. Florida was
admitted to the Union "on equal footing with the original
States, in all respects whatsoever." 8 And the power given
to Congress by § 3 of Article IV of the Constitution to admit new States relates only to such States as are equal to
each other "in power, dignity and authority, each competent to exert that residuum of sovereignty not delegated
to the United States by the Constitution itself." Coyle v.
Smith, 221 U. S. 559, 567.
There is nothing novel in the doctrine that a State may
exercise its authority over its citizens on the high seas.
That doctrine was expounded in the case of The Hamilton,
207 U. S. 398. There, a statute of Delaware giving damages for death was held to be a valid exercise of the power
of the State, extending to the case of a citizen of that State
wrongfully killed on the high seas in a vessel belonging to a
Delaware corporation by the negligence of another vessel also belonging to a Delaware corporation. If it be said
that the case was one of vessels and for the recognition of
'Act of March 3, 1845, 5 Stat. 742.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the formula that a vessel at sea is regarded as part of the
territory of the State, that principle would also be applicable here. There is no suggestion that appellant did not
conduct his operations by means of Florida boats. That
he did so conduct them was assumed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals in dealing with appellant's arrest in Cunningham v. Skiriotes, supra, and that reasonable inference has
not in any way been rebutted here.
But the principle recognized in The Hamilton, supra,
was not limited by the conception of vessels as floating
territory. There was recognition of the broader principle
of the power of a sovereign State to govern the conduct
of its citizens on the high seas. The court observed that
"apart from the subordination of the State of Delaware
to the Constitution of the United States" there was no
doubt of its power to make its statute applicable to the
case at bar. And the basic reason was, as the court put it,
that when so applied "the statute governs the reciprocal
liabilities of two corporations, existing only by virtue of
the laws of Delaware, and permanently within its jurisdiction, for the consequences of conduct set in motion by
them there, operating outside the territory of the State,
it is true, but within no other territorial jurisdiction." If
confined to corporations, "the State would have power
to enforce its law to the extent of their property in every
case." But the court went on to say that "the same authority would exist as to citizens domiciled within the
State, even when personally on the high seas, and not only
could be enforced by the State in case of their return,
which their domicil by its very meaning promised, but in
proper cases would be recognized in other jurisdictions by
the courts of other States." That is, "the bare fact of the
parties being outside the territory in a place belonging to
no other sovereign would not limit the authority of the
State, as accepted by civilized theory." The Hamilton,
supra, p. 403. When its action does not conflict with

SKIRIOTES v. FLORIDA.
69

Opinion of the Court.

federal legislation, the sovereign authority of the State
over the conduct of its citizens upon the high seas is
analogous to the sovereign authority of the United States
over its citizens in like circumstances.
We are not unmindful of the fact that the statutory
prohibition refers to the "Gulf of Mexico, or the Straits
of Florida or other waters within the territorial limits Of
the State of Florida." But we are dealing with the question of the validity of the statute as applied to appellant
from the standpoint of state power. The State has applied it to appellant at the place of his operations and if
the State had power to prohibit the described conduct of
its citizen at that place we are not concerned from the
standpoint of the Federal Constitution with the ruling of
the state court as to the extent of territorial waters. The
question before us must be considered in the light of the
total power the State possesses (Castillo v. McConnico,
168 U. S. 674, 684; Hebert v. Louisiana,272 U. S. 312, 316;
United Gas Co. v. Texas, 303 U. S. 123, 142), and so considered we find no ground for holding that the action of
the State with respect to appellant transcended the limits
of that power.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida is
Affirmed.

