OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

313 U. S.

Labor Relations Act took a step further by providing
that the Board could order reinstatement of employees
even though there had been no violation of any previous
order of the Board or of a court. It thus removed the
doubt which would otherwise have arisen by defining
and, as we think, enlarging the Board's authority to take
affirmative action so as to include the power to order
"reinstatement" of employees. But an authority to
order reinstatement is not an authority to compel the
employer to instate as his employees those whom he
has never employed, and an authority to award "back
pay" to reinstated employees is not an authority to
compel payment of wages to applicants for employment
whom the employer was never bound to hire.
Authority for so unprecedented an exercise of power
is not lightly to be inferred. In view of the use of the
phrase "including reinstatement of employees," as a
definition and enlargement, as we think it is, of the
authority of the Board to take affirmative action, we
cannot infer from it a Congressional purpose to authorize
the Board to order compulsory employment and wage
payments not embraced in its terms.
CONTINENTAL OIL CO. v. NATIONAL
RELATIONS BOARD.

LABOR

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 413. Argued March 11, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
Decided upon the authority of No. 387, Phelps Dodge Corp. v. NationalLabor Relations Board, ante, p. 177. P. 214.
113 F. 2d 473, modified and remanded.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 637, to review in part a judg-

ment sustaining in part an order of the National Labor
Relations Board, 12 N. L. R. B. 789.

CONTINENTAL OIL CO. v. LABOR BOARD. 213
212

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. John P. Akolt, with whom Messrs. James J. Cosgrove, Elmer L. Brock, E. R. Campbell, and Milton
Smith were on the brief, for petitioner.
The Board has no power to order reinstatement unless
the status of "employee" exists at the time of the entry
of the Board's order, and unless the employee has not,
in the meantime, obtained any other regular and substantially equivalent employment. Mooresville Cotton
Mills v. Labor Board, 94 F. 2d 51, 66; Standard Lime &
Stone Co. v. Labor Board, 97 F. 2d 531, 535; Labor
Board v. Carlisle Lumber Co., 99 F. 2d 533, 537, 538;
Labor Board v. Hearst, 102 F. 2d 658, 664; Labor Board
v. National Motor Bearing Co., 105 F. 2d 652, 662; Labor
Board v. Botany Worsted Mills, 106 F. 2d 263, 269;
Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 113 F. 2d 202.
The Board made no finding that the employee had
not obtained substantially equivalent employment.
One who becomes a proprietor of a business does not retain his status as an "employee."
. The power of the Board to require affirmative action
is remedial, not punitive. Consolidated Edison Co. v.
Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197; Labor Board v. Fansteel
Metallurgical Corp., 306 U. S.240; Republic Steel Corp.
v. Labor Board, 311 U. S.7.
In connection with the reinstatement, the Board ordered that Jones should be reimbursed for his earnings
loss up until the time when offer of reinstatement was
made. It can not be proper to require an employer to
subsidize a business venture and protect a former employee against the losses in the business venture in which
he has voluntarily engaged.
The evidence shows a transfer of- Moore, but no discharge. There is no finding of any discharge, but there
is a finding of a discriminatory transfer. Such a finding,
not in conformity with any charge in the complaint, is
not sufficient to justify any reinstatement relief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Moore's employment at the penitentiary at a wage of
$70 per month, plus room and board, was regular employment substantially equivalent to his former employment.
He therefore could not be considered an employee within
the reinstatement provisions of the Act. Labor Board
v. CarlisleLumber Co., 99 F. 2d 533, 537.
Mr. Thomas E. Harris, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle and Messrs. Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp,
Mortimer B. Wolf, and Morris P. Glushien were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In its petition the Continental Oil Company challenged various provisions of an order of the Labor Board
which the Circuit Court of Appeals had enforced, but
we brought here only so much of the case as pertained
to the reinstatement of two men, Jones and Moore, 311
U. S. 637. Continental's contention is that reinstatement was precluded because neither man remained an
"employee" within ยง 2 (3) of the National Labor Relations Act. The decisive question, however, as we have
ruled in the Phelps Dodge case, ante, p. 177, is whether
reinstatement will "effectuate the policies" of the Act.
We therefore remand the case for an exercise by the
Board of its judgment on that issue, in light of our
opinion in the Phelps Dodge case.
Remanded.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the considera-

tion or disposition of this case.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

reiterate

the views expressed by them in the Phelps Dodge case.

and MR.
are of opinion that the Board's order

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOuGLAS,
JUSTICE MURPHY

should be affirmed for the reasons set forth by them in
the Phelps Dodge case.

