OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

MARSH, SECRETARY OF STATE OF NEBRASKA,
ET AL. V. BUCK ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 312.

Argued April 29, 1941.-Decided May 26, 1941.

Decided upon the authority of Watson v. Buck, ante, p. 387.
33 F. Supp. 377, reversed.

P. 407.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which enjoined enforcement of the Nebraska AntiMonopoly Act of May 17, 1937, against the plaintiffsappellees, who were members of the American Society
of Composers, Authors and Publishers, an unincorporated
association recognized by the laws of the State of New
York, consisting of approximately 1,425 composers and
authors and 131 publishers of music.

Mr. William J. Hotz, with whom Messrs. Walter R.
Johnson, Attorney General of Nebraska, John Riddell,
Assistant Attorney General, Gordon Diesing and William
F. Daltonwere on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Thomas G. Haight, with whom Messrs. Louis D.
Frohlich and Herman Finkelstein were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Most of the questions presented by this case are the
same as those that were raised in Watson v. Buck, ante,
p. 387. Here, as there, at the request of ASCAP and its
co-complainants a federal District Court composed of
three judges enjoined various state officials from enforcing a state statute' aimed primarily at price-fixing corn'Neb. Laws 1937, ch. 138.

MARSH v. BUCK.
406

Opinion of the Court.

binations operating in the field of public performance of
copyright music.' Here, as there, the complainants alleged, and the defendants denied, that enforcement of the
act had been threatened. Here, as there, the court below found that threats had been made, that some of the
sections of the act were invalid, that the invalidity of
those sections permeated the whole, and that the state
officials should be enjoined from enforcing any of the
numerous provisions of the act. But, as in the Florida
case, the court below proceeded on a mistaken premise
as to the r6le a federal equity court should play in enjoining state criminal statutes. Here, there was no more
of a showing of exceptional circumstances, specific
threats, and irreparable injury than in the Florida case.
In his brief in this Court, the Attorney General of Nebraska stated that "Appellants, as law enforcement officers, sincerely hope that no action under this law will
be required. None was threatened before nor since the
suit was started." With one possible exception, the record bears out the statement of the Attorney General;
there was no evidence whatever that any threats had
been made, but in his answer the Attorney General stated
that he would "enforce the act against the complainant
Society . . . [if] the complainant Society would operate
in the State of Nebraska in violation of the terms of the
statute by conniving and conspiring to fix and determine
prices for public performance of copyrighted musical
compositions . . ." As we have just held in Watson v.
Buck, it was error to issue an injunction under these
circumstances.
In other material respects also, this case is like the
Florida case. The court below failed to pass on what
we consider the heart of the statute because of what it
regarded as the pervading vice of the invalid sections.
'33 F. Supp. 377.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

But ยง 12 of the Nebraska statute is similar to ยง 12 of the
Florida statute and provides that "If any section, subdivision, sentence or clause in this Act shall, for any reason,
be held void or non-enforceable, such decision shall in no
way affect the validity or enforceability of any other part
or parts of this Act." The legislative will is respected by
the Supreme Court of Nebrask,' and the court below
should have followed state law in this regard. That part
of the statute on which the court did not pass--and the
part which the Attorney General said he stood willing to
enforce if violated---set up a complete scheme for the regulation of combinations controlling performing rights in
copyright music. On the authority of Watson v. Buck,
the decision below is reversed and the cause is remanded
with instructions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

'See Petersen v. Beal, 121 Neb. 348, 353; 237 N. W. 146, quoting
and approving the following excerpt from Scott v. Flowers, 61 Neb. 620,

622-623; 85 N. W. 857: "The general rule upon the subject is that,
where there is a conflict between an act of the legislature and the Constitution of the state, the statute must yield to the extent of the repugnancy, but no further [Citing authorities]. If, after striking out the
unconstitutional part of a statute, the residue is intelligible, complete,
and capable of execution, it will be upheld and enforced, except, of
course, in cases where it is apparent that the rejected part was an inducement to the adoption of the remainder. In other words, the legislative
will is, within constitutional limits, the law of the land, and when
expressed in accordance with established procedure, must be ascertained by courts and made effective."

