450

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.
STATES ET AL.

313 U. S.
ET AL.

v. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 594. Argued April 9, 10, 1941.-Decided June 2, 1941.

1. The Interstate Commerce Acts condemn favoritism among shippers, however brought about. P. 462.
2. Under § 1 of the Elkins Act, which forbids "any person, persons
or corporation" to give or receive any concession "in respect
to transportation" in interstate commerce, and which provides
that any person, "whether carrier or shipper," who gives or
receives such a concession, is guilty of a misdemeanor, payment of a
bonus to a prospective shipper to induce him to locate on a
carrier's line is unlawful, though made by a person who is neither
a carrier nor a shipper, if it be a payment "in respect to transportation." P. 462.
The words "whether carrier or shipper" were added to § 1 of
the Elkins Act by the Hepburn Act to make clear that the phrase
qany person, persons, or corporation" includes shippers as well
as carriers; they did not restrict the ordinary meaning of the
words "any person."
3. Action by any person to bring about discrimination in respect
to interstate transportation by a carrier subject to the Interstate
Commerce Acts, is unlawful under the Elkins Act. P. 463.
4. A city, under the dominating influence and with the financial
assistance of an interstate carrier seeking competitive advantages,
established a new terminal market for foodstuffs, on land owned
by the city on the carrier's line. In order to secure tenants for
this market, carrier and city sought to obtain, and obtained,
agreements with dealers (interstate shippers) who marketed such
produce in a nearby municipality to move to the new market, under
the stimulus of concessions offered to them by the city alone, in the
way of rental reductions and cash payments, which were characterized as compensation for their losses in moving, but which
in some cases were excessive. The United States, at the request
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, filed a bill to enjoin.
Held:
(1) That the concessions were "in respect to transportation"
and contrary to § 1 of the Elkins Act. P. 464.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

451

Opinion of the Court.

(2) While it is the result and not the purpose which determines
the illegal character of advantages granted shippers, when there
is a purpose or plan for securing traffic, developed co6peratively
by a carrier and others, the purpose makes clear that the concessions offered are in respect to transportation. P. 467.
(3) The injunction should require that rates to dealers for space
in the new market shall be the fair rental value of the facilities
leased. P. 471.
5. Criteria of "fair rental value." P. 473.
32 F. Supp. 917, affirmed with modification.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining
violation of prohibitions of the Interstate Commerce
Acts in respect of discriminatory concessions to shippers.
Mr. Blake A. Williamson for Kansas City, Kansas, and
Messrs. Henry N. Ess and Thomas W. Bockes for the
Union Pacific Railroad Co. Messrs. Alton H. Skinner,
Arthur C. Spencer, and Robert F. Maguire were with
them on the brief for appellants.
Mr. James C. Wilson, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Richard H. Demuth and Burt L. Smelker were on the
brief, for the United States. Mr. William E. Kemp for
Kansas City, Missouri, and Mr. Jonathan C. Gibson for
the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. et al.-with
whom Messrs. Hale Houts, Leslie R. Welch, Andrew C.
Scott, Roland J. Lehman, John N. Monteith, and Christopher B. Garnett were on the brief for the appellees
other than the United States. Mr. Walter R. McFarland entered an appearance for the Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy Railroad Co.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal involves the legality, under the Elkins
Act, of appellants' activities and course of conduct with
respect to the new Food Terminal at Kansas City, Kansas. That city and Kansas City, Missouri, are both part

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

of a district known as Greater Kansas City, which for
over three-quarters of a century had been served by a
produce market located in Kansas City, Missouri. In
1937 the Union Pacific Railroad, acting upon tlre suggestion of two promoters, DeOreo and Fean, formulated a
plan for the construction of a new market in Kansas
City, Kansas. The Union Pacific in turn induced the
City of Kansas City, Kansas, to undertake the development of such a market, which the City was to construct,
operate and own. Union Pacific became interested in the
development in order to increase the volume of its traffic; for, unlike the situation in the Missouri market, it
was, with a minor exception, the only railroad with tracks
serving the proposed Kansas site. Because business in
the Greater Kansas City area was believed insufficient
to support a split market, partly in Kansas and partly in
Missouri, the plan included taking steps to persuade
dealers on the Missouri side to move to Kansas. These
negotiations will appear more fully below, but in general they contemplated certain concessions and free rents
by the City of Kansas City, Kansas, to those dealers who
decided to make the transfer. Ostensibly this was to
compensate the dealers for their costs of removal, but
actually, at least in some instances, it went somewhat
beyond. Throughout the promotion, financing and
leasing of the new market facilities, Union Pacific took a
leading and dominant part. The market opened for
operation on December 4, 1939.
On December 29, 1939, at the request of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the Government filed a bill to enjoin the Union Pacific, the City of Kansas City, Kansas,
certain of their officers and agents, and thirty-three produce dealers, from violating the Interstate Commerce Act,
49 U. S. C. § 1 et seq., and the Elkins Act, 49 U. S. C. §§ 4145, which prohibit rebates, concessions and discriminations
in respect to the transportation of property by railroad

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

453

Opinion of the Court.

in interstate commerce.' Under the provisions of § 3 of
the Elkins Act,' four other railroads and the City of Kansas
1
Section 41(1) of the Elkins Act (32 Stat. 847; 34 Stat. 587; 49
U. S. C. § 41 (1)), so far as pertinent here, provides:
"Anything done or omitted to be done by a corporation common
carrier, subject to chapter 1 of this title, which, if done or omitted to
be done by any director or officer thereof, or any receiver, trustee,
lessee, agent, or person acting for or employed by such corporation,
would constitute a misdemeanor under said chapter or under sections
41, 42, or 43 of this title, shall also be held to be a misdemeanor committed by such corporation, and upon conviction thereof it shall be subject to like penalties as are prescribed in said chapter or by sections 41,
42, or 43 of this title, with reference to such persons, except as such
penalties are herein changed. The willful failure upon the part of
any carrier subject to said chapter to file and publish the tariffs or rates
and charges as required by said chapter, or strictly to observe such tariffs until changed according to law, shall be a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof the corporation offending shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $1,000 nor more than $20,000 for each offense; and it
shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporation to offer,
grant, or give, or to solicit, accept, or receive any rebate, concession, or
discrimination in respect to the transportation of any property in
interstate or foreign commerce by any common carrier subject to said
chapter whereby any such property shall by any levice whatever be
transported at a less rate than that named in the tariffs published and
filed by such carrier, as is required by said chapter, or whereby any
other advantage is given or discrimination is practiced. Every person or corporation, whether carrier or shipper, who shall, knowingly,
offer, grant, or give, or solicit, accept, or receive any such rebates, concession, or discrimination shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$1,000 nor more than $20,000: Provided, That any person, or any
officer or director of any corporation subject to the provisions of sections 41, 42, or 43 of this title or of chapter 1 of this title, or any
receiver, trustee, lessee, agent, or person acting for or employed by
any such corporation, who shall be convicted as aforesaid, shall, in
addition to the fine herein provided for, be liable to imprisonment in
the penitentiary for a term of not exceeding two years, or both such
fine and imprisonment, in the discretion or the court ..
232 Stat. 848; 36 Stat. 1167; 49 U. S. C. § 43:
"Whenever the Interstate Commerce Commission shall have reason-

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

City, Missouri, were permitted to intervene as parties
plaintiff. The district court issued a temporary restraining order, held hearings, and on April 10, 1940, granted a
temporary injunction. After further hearings a permanent injunction was entered on July 13. The appeal
comes direct to this Court by virtue of the Expediting Act,
49 U. S. C. § 45, under § 238 (1) of the Judicial Code.
able ground for belief that any common carrier is engaged in the
carriage of passengers or freight traffic between given points at less
than the published rates on file, or is committing any discriminations
forbidden by law, a petition may be presented alleging such facts to
the district court of the United States sitting in equity having jurisdiction; and when the act complained of is alleged to have been committed or as being committed in part in more than one judicial district
or State, it may be dealt with, inquired of, tried, and determined in either
such judicial district or State, whereupon it shall be the duty of the
court summarily to inquire into the circumstances, upon such notice and
in such manner as the court shall direct and without the formal pleadings and proceedings applicable to ordinary suits in equity, and to
make such other persons or corporations parties thereto as the court may
deem necessary, and upon being satisfied of the truth of the allegations
of said petition said court shall enforce an observance of the published
tariffs or direct and require a discontinuance of such discrimination
by proper orders, writs, and process, which said orders, writs, and process may be enforceable as well against the parties interested in the
traffic as against the carrier, subject to the right of appeal as now
provided by law. It shall be the duty of the several district attorneys
of the United States, whenever the Attorney General shall direct, either
of his own motion or upon the request of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, to institute and prosecute such proceedings, and the proceedings provided for by sections 41, 42, or 43. of this title shall not
preclude the bringing of suit for the recovery of damages by any party
injured, or any other action provided by chapter 1 of this title ...
Provided, That the provisions of sections 44 and 45 of this title shall
apply to any case prosecuted under the direction of the Attorney
General in the name of the Interstate Commerce Commission."
Cf. United States v. Chicago North Shore R. Co., 288 U. S.1, an appeal from a one-judge court from decree on a petition under § 12 (1) of
the Interstate Commerce Act as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 12 (1); Ethyl
Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S.436, 446.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

The facts set forth in the findings and opinion of the
district court, 32 F. Supp. 917, together with the supporting record references specified by the district judge,
give a clear statement of the origin and development of
the Kansas City, Kansas, project:
Appellants DeOreo and Fean, before 1937, had promoted various metropolitan terminals with wholesale
produce market and rail facilities. In December, 1936,
they suggested to Union Pacific the feasibility of such
a terminal to be served by its line at Greater Kansas
City, and a plan was soon formulated for the construction of facilities on the Public Levee, property of Kansas
City, Kansas; Union Pacific's aim was to increase its
traffic and revenues from perishable food products. The
plan contemplated that ownership of the terminal be
vested in the City, which would be eligible for a PWA
grant from the United States to cover part of the construction costs. A further consideration was that a cityowned market would be tax-free, and thus able to offer
dealers the inducement of especially low rentals. Union
Pacific presented engineering and cost estimates to officials of the City of Kansas City, Kansas, who became
interested in the project and determined that plans
should go forward. Thereafter, Union Pacific and the
City participated jointly in the promotion and financing
of the terminal; and the court below found after a careful review of the evidence that Union Pacific took "a
leading and dominant part." Union Pacific suggested
the plan that financing be accomplished by a PWA grant
and by revenue bonds of the City, secured only by revenue from the terminal and other levee property. Union
Pacific suggested that the City make DeOreo and Fean
exclusive leasing agents of the terminal for a period of
ten years; when this contract was disapproved by PWA
officials, the two promoters were persuaded to consent
to its cancellation, and Union Pacific later caused sub-

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

stantial payments to be made to them by its subsidiary,
the Kansas City Industrial Land Company. The City's
first application for a PWA grant, which it prepared with
Union Pacific's assistance, was denied, but a later application for $1,710,000 won approval in October, 1938.
This supplied 45% of the cost of structures the City was
to build; the remaining 55% was to be obtained by selling revenue bonds to investment bankers. Union Pacific
helped the City secure state legislation authorizing the
bonds; the bankers, however, declined to purchase them
when Union Pacific refused to guarantee income sufficient
to meet fixed charges. Union Pacific then decided to
buy the bonds for itself, paying $3,000,000 plus accrued
interest; $1,033,000 of this was used to retire outstanding
revenue bonds, and the remainder made available for
construction of the terminal. The bonds, which were
held valid in State ex rel. Beck v. Kansas City, 149 Kan.
252; 86 P. 2d 476, are secured solely by the revenues accruing from the terminal and other property on the Public Levee; they constitute no claim against the City's
general revenues, and the district court found that they
"were and are speculative and were not then salable in
the ordinary course of the commercial investment business."
Union Pacific also caused its officers, employees and
agents, and those of its subsidiary, the Kansas City Industrial Land Company, and its affiliate, the Pacific Fruit
Express Company, to render various services related to
the promotional, leasing and financing activities; it advanced money for financing preliminary expenses; and
together with the City it supervised the actual construction. The terminal as completed consists of railroad
facilities, owned by Union Pacific, for which it spent
$603,000; and the City's wholesale produce market, with
a cold storage plant, produce dealers' buildings, a farmers'
market, and some terminal trackage, all constructed with

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

funds derived from the PWA grant and the revenue
bonds sold to Union Pacific.- The Food Terminal is a
unitary enterprise, with the market and the railroad facilities integral parts of a unified whole. Union Pacific
has the only tracks reaching the terminal, except that the

Missouri Pacific jointly serves the cold-storage plant.
Active solicitation of the Missouri dealers to move to
Kansas began in June, 1937. As early as August, 1937,
Union Pacific contemplated the necessity of giving inducements to dealers, either by making direct payments
or by buying from them "unwanted properties." In the
summer and fall of that year, DeOreo and Fean induced
five of the Missouri dealers to serve on a committee for
the promotion of the Kansas terminal, agreeing to pay
each of them $5000 "in consideration of the services
rendered . . . and the occupancy of the food terminal"
as tenant. By August, 1938, Union Pacific's employees
and agents had negotiated with other dealers with respect to cash payments and other inducements. As opposition developed on the Missouri side, the district court
found that the campaign for enlistment of the Missouri
dealers became "open and intense." Union Pacific, however, was anxious to avoid violating the Elkins Act, and
sought the advice of its legal department, which rendered
an opinion that payments made by the City to dealers
would be lawful. With the assistance of a committee of
prominent citizens, the City was persuaded to undertake
such payments; in December, 1939, it passed Resolution
11275 authorizing use of the Public Levee Revenue Fund
for settlements either with cash or credits on rental, or
both, to cover costs incurred by prospective tenants, "due
to rental obligations on present places of business and
costs due to abandonment of equipment and facilities
'The City spent an additional $149,000 from its general revenues
for street and sewer improvements in the terminal area.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

now located in, and the good will of said established
places of business." The legality under state law of
such payments by the City was promptly established in
a test suit at least partially directed by Union Pacific.
State ex rel. Parker v. Kansas City, 151 Kan. 1 and 2;
97 P. 2d 104; 98 P. 2d 101.
The City, although now willing to make payments to
prospective tenants where necessary, was lacking funds.
In arranging for refrigerator service at the market, Union
Pacific contracted to buy its entire Kansas City and
Omaha ice requirements from the City Ice & Fuel Company. This company leased the market's cold-storage
unit for fifteen years at $37,500 per year; Union Pacific
now urged the company to pay the City $80,000 as advance rent. The City Ice & Fuel Company did this and
also, at Union Pacific's and the City's suggestion, deposited $25,000 with a bank as collateral for proposed unsecured and inadequately secured loans to Missouri produce dealers, although such loans, while offered, were never
actually made.'
In the negotiations with the Missouri dealers, Union
Pacific's representatives took an active part. The district court found that it and the City acted together to
induce prospective tenants "by means of offers, agreements, payments, and gifts to such defendant produce
dealers and other produce dealers of free rents, reduced
rents, free refrigeration, cash payments and rental credits purporting to be for the purpose of paying such produce dealers' cost of removal from Kansas City, Missouri . . . and the value of furniture and fixtures in their

Kansas City, Missouri, places of business and the liability on unexpired leases in Kansas City, Missouri, but in
some cases in excess of any such costs, values or liabilities." The opinion adds that "The testimony of several
dealers with whom negotiations were conducted warrants the conclusion that the primary objective of those

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

who conducted or took part in the negotiations was not
the ascertainment of the loss or expense to the dealer of
moving, but was the ascertainment of the amount necessary to be paid to bring about the move."
The record fully supports the trial court's conclusion
that the concessions offered were not confined to fair compensation for the costs of removal, as a brief review of the
instances specified by the judge will show. Mallin Produce Company, the largest apple concern in the market,
claimed $17,300 as its costs of removal, $7,300 for moving
its apples, and $10,000 as the "value of existing lease to be
abandoned." However, Mallin made no claim that he
had any obligations under his Missouri lease; I he merely
said that he had been assured by his landlord that he could
continue the lease as long as he lived, and that he would
continue to lease the property "in order to keep a competitor from securing it." Union Pacific's representative
nevertheless offered him $15,000 from the City, and then
raised the offer to $20,000 when Mallin agreed to take two
units instead of one at the terminal. The 0. C. Evans
Company, which made no statement of the amount of its
Missouri investment, was offered $5,000; when it demanded $10,000, the offer was increased to $7,000. The
negotiators increased Cherrito's claim from $900 to $1,450
by raising the cost figures for his Missouri fixtures above
the amounts he had specified. Garrett-Holmes & Company, which had claimed only about $20,000 in the summer of 1939 without presenting definite figures, in
December demanded an adjustment of $35,000, and accepted $30,500 in cash and one year's free refrigeration.
Settlement was reached on a claim for unexpired rentals
of $15,000 and cost of irremovable business fixtures, $20,000. Litman Produce Company was given $15,000 in
Further, Mallin had sublet part of the property, and at the time

had a net rental expense of no more than $25 per month.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

cash and advance rent after asserting an obligation to pay
six years' rent on an unexpired Missouri lease, when in fact
the lease was to expire in a few months and merely contained an option to renew for four years; Litman had not
exercised the option, though after the injunction he entered into a new lease with his Missouri lessor. Robinson
was allowed to put in a claim for $600 for several unexpired months of an asserted six months' lease, when the
tenancy was in fact on a month-to-month basis. Winnick
Brothers, a banana -firm, was allowed more than $7,000
as the unamortized cost of fixtures and equipment that had
apparently cost them less than a thousand dollars.
The proposed cash payments to dealers totalled $111,000, and the proposed credits on rent more than $30,000.
When negotiations with a dealer resulted in a tentative
understanding or agreement, he would be told that Union
Pacific could not pay him but that the matter would be
submitted to the City. The district court's injunction intervened before more than one of the adjustments had
been formally agreed to by the City Board and none of
these payments had actually been made.
In addition to these circumstances, the standard form
lease contained express provisions for free rents and reduced rents. The standard rental adopted was $150 per
month per unit, but for the first three months after the
official completion date only $50 was charged. Moreover,
the terminal opened for business on December 4, 1939;
dealers began moving in then and enjoyed rent-free occupation until February 1, 1940, which was announced as the
official completion date.
Union Pacific also made available a certain amount of
free advertising by interviewing the terminal's tenants
on its radio program and allowing them to describe the
kind and quality of their produce.
Throughout all phases of these activities, Union Pacific's
principal and compelling motive has been to divert pro-

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

duce traffic from other railroads to its own. By tariffs
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, charges
for handling are collected by the Union Pacific for cars
originating on or destined to other lines. If the market
shifts from Missouri to Kansas, it is estimated that Union
Pacific stands to gain traffic revenues of several hundred
thousand dollars annually from the development of the
market, due largely to the fact that a railroad on whose
line a shipper is located enjoys a substantial advantage in
soliciting competitive traffic, and comparable losses may
be reasonably expected by the railroads now serving the
Missouri market.
The Applicable Statutes. The Elkins Act is a part of
the federal statutory system for the regulation of interstate carriers of commerce. As with other portions of
that system a chief purpose for its enactment was to eliminate rebates, concessions or discriminations from the handling of commerce, to the end that persons and places might
carry on their activities on an equal basis. With the adoption of prohibition against open rate-cutting, various devices were resorted to 6 The railroads sought control over
competitors to escape rate wars and, despite abhorrence
of monopolies even in the utility field, strong in the early
.years of this century, such concentrations of carrier control were thought to have one advantage at least, the
reduction of discriminatory practices.7 Concealment of
the receipt or payment of rebates was made manifest.
Strengthening of the enforcement provisions was sought.
This effort finally culminated in the legislative authorization of the injunction as the simplest and most summary
legal instrument to destroy discrimination.8 The courts
have found the statutes effective to accomplish the de1897 Annual Report, I. C. C., 47.
1900 Annual Report, I. C. C., 13.
'1902 Annual Report, I. C. C., 8-10; 32 Stat. 848.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

struction of discriminatory practices, whatever their form.
Violation of the commerce acts through receipt of advantages is to be tested by actual results, not by intention.,
Any and all means to accomplish the prohibited end are
banned. 0 We recently said that under competitive conditions existing in the New York area the action of the
Commission in attacking discrimination by an order
against furnishing non-transportation services below cost
to the carrier was valid, although there was no showing
that the charges were below fair value." Contribution to
a shipper's construction cost is forbidden. 2 In fact, favoritism which destroys equality between shippers, however
brought about, is not tolerated. Of course, no party to
this appeal disputes this broad principle.
Difficulties in statutory construction arise upon further analysis of the statute. Section 1, quoted in note 1,
has a provision making it unlawful for any person to
give or receive any concession in respect to transportation. A subsequent clause makes the act of giving or
receiving a concession a misdemeanor and punishes its
violation by "every person or corporation, whether carrier or shipper." Obviously a bonus paid by a railway to
induce a prospective shipper to locate along its line would
be as much a concession under the statute as a reduction.
in tariff applicable only to the favored shipper. We are
of the opinion that such a payment by a person who is
not a carrier, if it is a payment "in respect to transportation," would be equally violative of the section in
question.
The first prohibition makes it unlawful "for any person or corporation" to give or receive the concession.
'New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 200
U. S. 361, 398.
°Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 72.
"Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S. 507, 524.
12 United States v. Union Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

The appellants' argument that only carriers or shippers
are covered is based on the clause stating the punishment to be applicable whether the alleged violator is
"carrier or shipper." Such an argument assumes that the
carrier and shipper clause restricts the ordinary meaning
of "any person." No reason is advanced for such a restriction. As has been set out, there has been a welldefined and continuous purpose to eliminate preferences
to shippers from our system of transportation for reasons
of fairness and to avoid rate wars, detrimental to the
efficiency of the carriers. The words stressed by appellants as restrictive were added by the Hepburn Act as an
amendment to § 1 of the Elkins Act to make clear that
the earlier phrase "any person, persons or corporation"
included shippers as well as carriers. 8 In our view, action by any person to bring about discriminations in respect to the transportation of property is rendered unlawful by the Elkins Act. Any other conclusion would
do violence to a dominant purpose of carrier legislation.
This conclusion is buttressed by other language in the
Elkins Act and by decisions in other courts which have
dealt with the question. Section 3 authorizes such suits
as this against a carrier and such other persons "as the
court may deem necessary" when a carrier is "committing any discriminations," and the court may enforce its
orders "as well against the parties interested in the traffic" as against the carrier. For example, in Spencer Kellogg & Sons v. United States, 20 F. 2d 459, a grain elevator owner, without carrier affiliation or cooperation,
was convicted for sharing its allowance for elevation
service with a shipper.' "
' 34 Stat. 584, 588; 40 Cong. Ree. 7022.
"See Interstate Commerce Commission v. Reichmann, 145 F. 235,
240, rebate by non-carrier private car company to shipper, decided

prior to the addition of the clause "whether carrier or shipper" by
the act of June 29, 1906; United States v. Milwaukee Refrigerator

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

The statute specifically requires that the concession
given or received shall be "in respect to the transportation of any property in interstate or foreign commerce
by any common carrier." As the language of the section
covers indisputably the carrier and the freight involved
in movement into and out of a metropolitan terminal
market, 5 only the phrase "in respect to the transportation" requires analysis. What has been said shows
its meaning connotes more than discrimination in payment of tariffs. Offering or soliciting the concessions
explicitly violates the section. So does a building bonus
granted on condition that the favored industry use the
carrier's facilities." The concessions are none the less
illegal, if made for non-transportation services, 7 as long
as they result in lowering directly or indirectly transportation costs to a shipper. That other inducements may
also have influenced the concessions is not important
when a materially effective purpose is the securing of
traffic for an interstate carrier. Where traffic is an object, and discriminatory advantage the means employed
in attempting to obtain or actually obtaining it, there is
a violation of the section in respect to transportation.
Validity of the Plan. Appellants urge that the City's
action in making arrangements for payments to dealers
located in the Missouri city was taken solely in furtherance of its municipal interests and without intention to
influence traffic and consequently not "in respect to the
transportation of property." It is pointed out that it is
quite permissible and indeed desirable for a railroad,
Co., 145 F. 1007, 1012, likewise decided before the amendment; Dye
v. United States, 262 F. 6; United States v. Koenig Coal Co., 270
U. S. 512, 520.
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498.
" United States v. Union Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286, 308.
"Baltimore &.Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S. 507.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

largely dependent as its prosperity is upon the prosperity
of the communities reached by its tracks, to take part in
furthering civic development. Certainly there can be no
objection on the score of illegality under federal transportation acts for a city, anxious to make its market
house profitable, to adopt business practices, normal for
real estate operators, if the practices do not involve discriminations "in respect to transportation" by interstate
carriers. Thus it is understandable that city and railroad might individually and even coperatively work
hand in hand to promote the city's economic welfare
without violating the Elkins Act. But the promotion of
civic advancement may not be used as a cloak to screen
the granting of discriminatory advantages to shippers.
Consequently in the present case the things done are to
be appraised by the standards of the statutes, heretofore
examined. For this purpose we may lay aside as of small
importance the action of the Union Pacific in advancing
funds for the expenses of an inspection tour to other
cities by the Missouri merchants, who were thus made
familiar with markets similar to the proposed market on
the Kansas side of the Missouri River. The use of the
railroad's radio time to advertise shippers' available stock
in trade, while unlawful, seems too minor for further
comment in a suit to enjoin discriminations through cash
bonuses and free rent. Further, while it would be a
violation of the Elkins Act for a carrier to offer a shipper
a concession to be paid to the shipper by a non-carrier,
we do not find it necessary to rest the decision here upon
the carrier's alleged action in offering payments to shippers by the City. For in this case invalidity of the carrier's action would follow a fortiori from the invalidity
of the City's action. Therefore we examine the City's
situation.
Enough has heretofore been stated to support fully the
conclusion that some shippers obtained agreements from
326252' -41-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the City committee on negotiations for concessions in return for moving into the new market. In determining
whether the concessions were in respect to transportation,
the co~perative functioning of railway and City, transportation and municipal officers, becomes significant. The
phrase "in respect to transportation" has not a technical
connotation. It differs from intent or purpose to affect
transportation. It is broader than "in reduction of tariffs" though, as appears from the act, it is such a discrimination as results in transportation "at a less rate than
that named in the tariffs . . . or whereby any other advantage is given . . ." Our attention is not called to
any legislative history as to the purpose of the inclusion of
the words in the Elkins Act or as to their meaning. We
have found none. We are of the view that the phrase
limits the "rebate, concession or discrimination" to advantages or disadvantages in transportation but has no further effect. As the discrimination is limited to transportation matters, normally one would find involved in the
discrimination not only a user or prospective user of the
facilities of the carrier but also the carrier itself. This is
true in this instance. Carrier and City, through a committee of employees of each and through DeOreo and Fean
and their aides, worked together to bring into the terminal
tenants whose business as found below was "shipping
into and out of the Food Terminal products transported in
interstate commerce upon which the dealers pay the
freight." Where concessions are offered to such dealers
by the City in a plan worked out co~peratively by the City
and carrier, as here, these concessions are necessarily in
respect to transportation. The Union Pacific is charged
with the public duty of and is interested in transportation.
The promoters brought the scheme for the market first
to the railway company. It was impressed with the possibilities and worked earnestly to convince first a few city
officials, and then the Board, of the desirability of action

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

by the City. Money for the preliminary expenses was
advanced by the Union Pacific. No objection was made
to the use by the City of prepaid rents from the City Ice &
Fuel Company to further the removal of the dealers in
the manner "conceived and devised," in the words of a
finding, by the Union Pacific. The railroad was the "leading and dominant" influence in the entire transaction. If
the City was not completely "subservient to the competitive needs" of the carrier, as we said of the warehousing
corporations in Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States,
305 U. S. 507, 516-17, at least the encouragement and cooperation given by the railroad was of a kind to make it
plain that the City's action looked specifically towards
gaining traffic for the road. While, as has been stated,
it is the result and not the purpose which determines the
illegal character of advantages granted shippers, when
there is a purpose or plan for securing traffic, developed
co6peratively by a carrier and others, the purpose makes
clear that the concessions offered are in respect to transportation.
The power of the City to make the concessions and the
question of whether any money to be used by the City
was contributed directly or indirectly by the Union Pacific do not affect this conclusion. The judgment of the
Supreme Court of Kansas in State ex rel. Parker v.
Kansas City,"8 that "the City, in its proprietary capacity,
under Kansas law has "authority to pay such sums as
are necessary . . . to carry out . . . such policies and
transactions as may be to the best interest of said city
in securing tenants . . . for said Terminal" is not reviewable here. But the opinions in these Kansas cases
do not consider or decide whether the proposed payments
are a part of a plan to grant advantages to shippers contrary to the Elkins Act. Even if the City's action had
151 Kan. 1 and 2, 8; 97 P. 2d 104, 105; 98 P. 2d 101.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

been discussed from that standpoint, the result would not
conclude this Court. It is our duty to determine finally
the effect of acts or plans plainly under that federal statute.1 9 It is impossible, and in our view immaterial, to
determine from the evidence and findings whether the
Union Pacific contributed indirectly to the fund for making payments to shippers. The railroad owned a three
million dollar bond issue which carries a covenant to
apply all revenues of the properties involved, after operating expenses, to the bond liquidation. By acquiescing
in the application of the revenues to secure tenants, the
railway did contribute financially, if there was a failure
to earn enough to meet expenses. The estimates as to
earnings are necessarily uncertain. From its finding that
the projected net return was compensatory, the district
court was apparently of the view that the Terminal would
pay out."0
"Houston & Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, 351;
United States v. California,297 U. S. 175; Palmer v. Massachusetts,
308 U. S. 79, 84; New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, 600-01;
United States v. Holt Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 55-56; Morgan v. Commissioner, 309 U. S. 78, 80-81; Chicago Board of Trade v. Johnson,
264 U. S. 1, 10; City of New York v. Feiring, ante, p. 283.
' The difficulty is shown by the district court's language in finding
34:
"The City's forecast of its ability to pay off the bonds in twentytwo years is based upon a ninety percent occupancy of the market
facilities as compared with an actual percentage of occupancy of less
than thirty-five percent at the present time, and there is assumed
an ability to exact the same level of rentals when the market buildings become twenty-five or thirty years old as at the present time
when they are new. The City's estimate of operating expenses is
unduly low by reason of the omission of any sums to cover the
annual loss due to depreciation and obsolescence not made good by
current maintenance.
"The defendant City will derive no immediate direct financial
benefit from the operation of the Kansas City Food Terminal. The
Union Pacific, by reason of the anticipated improvement of the vol-

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

Injunction. One provision of the permanent injunction entered by the district court enjoined the Union
Pacific and Kansas City, Kansas, and their officers or
agents from giving cash or rental credits to produce
dealers to move into or remain in quarters in the Kansas
City Food Terminal.2 ' The appellants assign as error
the action of the district court in entering any prohibition against payments "in such amounts as its [the
City's] governing body may determine" and "against
use of its Public Levee revenues" for the payment of
"damages sustained by produce dealers moving" to the
Terminal.
Resolution 11275 was construed by the Supreme Court
of Kansas to authorize disbursements of available market funds for such purposes "as in the judgment of said
governing body will be to the best interests of the city." 22
By the resolution these expenditures were limited to the
dealers' actual costs of removal, including loss of good
will.
In prior sections of this opinion, it has been pointed out
that any concession by any person or corporation in respect to transportation is forbidden by the federal transportation statutes. The paragraph of the injunction now
ume of its traffic in perishable produce and consequent increase in
its revenues, will receive an immediate and continuing benefit from
the project."
'This provision reads: "(1) From offering, granting, or giving, or
assisting, joining, or co-operating in offering, granting, or giving cash
payments or rental credits, free rents, and reduced rents, unsecured or
inadequately secured loans constituting concessions, or other valuable considerations to defendant produce dealers or other produce
dealers, or produce brokers or other persons, firms, or corporations
shipping produce by railroad in interstate commerce to move or for
moving to the Kansas City Food Terminal or for leasing space or
remaining as tenants in said food terminal."
2State ex rel. Parker v. Kansas City, 151 Kan. 2, 8; 98 P. 2d 101,

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

under examination undertakes to apply this rule so that
no cash payments or rental credits may be given. It is
clear that in so far as such cash or credit is a "rebate, concession or discrimination" such an injunction is proper,
but do all payments to induce dealers to rent space in the
Terminal fall in these classifications? The trial court
said,
"The proposed payments to Missouri dealers to induce
them to move to the new market not being made to all
tenants at the new market and being in the nature of
bonuses the amount of which was not based on actual loss
or expense, fall within the classification of discriminations
prohibited by the Elkins Act."
The words of the injunction, however, go farther and forbid payments even though the payments are in all fairness and strictness limited to actual and necessary
expenses and losses in moving an establishment. Consequently, in deciding the form of the injunction, we need
to determine the breadth of language necessary "to suppress the unlawful practices" and preclude their revival.
The district court summarized in findings of fact and
conclusions of law the constant activity of the Union Pacific in pressing forward the idea of the Terminal. It had
before it the testimony that the road sought, meticulously,
to avoid conflict with the Elkins Act and yet gain the installation of the market; that the railway representatives
acted with the City committees and talked with prospective tenants. Railroad influence pervaded each City action and, in those circumstances, the decree must be molded
to meet the danger of subtle moves against the equality
between shippers guaranteed by the Elkins Act.
Where, as here, the action of the City in giving cash and
rental credits is, as we have decided, a part of a plan in re" Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461. Cf.
National Labor Relations Board v. Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S.
426, 435.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

spect to transportation resulting in an advantage to shippers, we conclude that the giving of any cash, rental credit,

free or reduced rents, to induce leasing of space in the Terminal is contrary to the Elkins Act. Even if we assume that
nothing will be given except the actual costs of removal, the
receipt of those costs would put the shipper in a preferred
position to all other shippers using the facilities of an interstate carrier who did not receive such concessions. The
act condemns any device "whereby any other advantage
[than lower tariffs] is given. . ... " The wording of paragraph (1) is approved.
Another prohibition of the injunction determines that
the rates for space shall be such "which will yield a proper
rate of return upon the full value of the market facilities
as a whole, after making provision for all expenses of
24
operation, including maintenance and depreciation."
Identical language in paragraph Third (2) of the injuncThe full paragraph enjoins the Union Pacific and the City of
Kansas City, Kansas, and their officers and employees,
"(2) From permitting defendant produce dealers or other produce
dealers, or produce brokers or other persons, firms, or corporations
shipping or receiving traffic by railroad in interstate commerce to
occupy or remain as tenants of the wholesale produce buildings or of
other facilities at the Kansas City Food Terminal unless said produce
dealers, produce brokers, or other persons, firms, or corporations(a) shall pay rental for past occupancy of such facilities under the provisions of the temporary restraining order and the preliminary injunction heretofore entered in this cause, and (b) shall pay rental hereafter for such facilities at the same rate charged all other shippers
occupying similar facilities at said Terminal, which does not amount to
a rebate or concession to any tenant, and which will yield a proper
rate of return upon the full value of the market facilities as a whole,
after making provision for all expenses of operation, including maintenance and depreciation. Provided further that nothing contained in
this decree shall be construed to limit the City in the renting of said
facilities to a unit basis; but in no event shall the rates of rental and
charges prescribed for such facilities aggregate less than is hereinabove
provided."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

tion forbids produce dealers, of whom many were parties
to this proceeding, and their agents from being tenants of
the Terminal at rental rates which are not adequate to
yield the required amount. The inclusion of this requirement is in our opinion erroneous. The words quoted in
the text should be stricken and the injunction amended by
inserting in lieu of the stricken words the following:
"which is a fair rental value for the facilities, occupied."
The reasons for the deletion follow.
The preliminary injunction referred to in the excerpt
from the final injunction quoted in note 24 set the rentals
at not less than certain definite amounts per month and
per annum for operating units and office space. There
were allowances for uncompleted facilities not now important. No issue is raised here as to whether the sums
fixed were or were not a fair rental value. Adequate
findings determined the values of the facilities, the estimated gross and net revenues and rates of return. With
these findings before it, the district court further found
in its final order that the rates fixed in the preliminary
injunction were compensatory and did not amount "to
a gift of any part of the value of the use of the Food
Terminal to the tenant shippers." 25 This result is not
"These

ultimate findings are as follows:
"41. The uniform or standard rates of rental adopted and ap-

proved by Kansas City, Kansas, for lease of warehouse space and
office space at the Kansas City Food Terminal are $150.00 per month
per unit and $1.10 per square foot per annum, respectively, and the
average rate of rental adopted or approved by Kansas City, Kansas,
for lease of the cold storage plant and appurtenant facilities at said
Food Terminal is $38,497 per annum. Such rentals are intended to
provide sufficient funds to amortize the principal and pay the interest on the Public Levee Revenue Bonds purchased by the defendant Union Pacific Railroad Company, representing 55 percent
of the total cost of construction of the said Food Terminal, and to
compensate the City for the use of the facilities for the purpose to
which they are dedicated.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

questioned. It may therefore be concluded that this
scale of charges meets the requirements of the decree for
aggregate rates which do not amount to concessions.
Since the adequacy of these rates was reached in considering the full value of the properties, including the
land furnished by the City and the grant from the Public Works Administration, it may be assumed that they
are not less than a fair rental value. The last paragraph
of the order provides a method for modification by application to the court should either side be of opinion that
this assumption is incorrect. As will immediately appear
from this opinion, it is unnecessary to give consideration to the contention that the district court erred in
adding the value of the City's land and the amount of
the grant to the cost of the facilities. If the correct test
is fair rental value, cost of facility is only persuasive,
not determinative. Consequently it may be shown as
a material factor in determining the fair rental value of
the properties but the rates are not required to be upon
a level which will give a return upon the value of the
investment as a whole.
Fair rental value rather than a compensatory return upon
full value of the market facilities is the standard by which
the City's schedule of rates is to be judged. To determine
fair rental value, the going rates of rental for similar facilities in the community are significant, as are the rentals
prospective tenants are willing to pay. Likewise, evi"42. The net return, while low as compared to the fair return of
many privately owned utilities devoted to the service of the public,
is compensatory and, in view of the purpose of the City to bring
about industrial improvement and the incidental advantage to the
City for that purpose and the return generally obtained from investments in utilities of like or similar nature, the present rental
rates and the consequent return to the City are not so low that the
use of the Food Terminal by tenants in interstate commerce at those
rentals will amount to a gift of any part of the value of the use of
the Food Terminal to the tenant shippers."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

dence of the over-all cost and the over-all value of the
properties would be material. The cost of furnishing the
facilities, including the normal return on capital employed
in like enterprises would have weight. Other pertinent
factors would doubtless emerge in a controversy to have
determined judicially whether certain rentals received
are or are not fair. When enough evidence is offered to
justify a conclusion based upon judgment and not guesswork, the requirements of the judicial process are
met.2
This is not the case for a rigid rule that aggregate rentals
are to equal costs, such as was applied in Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S. 507, 523-524, where this
Court approved an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission designed to root out competitive evils in discriminatory warehousing indulged in by carriers in an
effort to acquire traffic. The City is entitled to develop its
properties and location in accordance with the laws of
Kansas for civic advantage, so long as it does not utilize its
facilities in furtherance of a scheme to obtain customers
for a carrier by the offering of concessions, contrary to
the Elkins Act. It was recognized in Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co. v. United States that a charge of fair rental value for
services accessorial to transportation would adequately
protect even a carrier under proper circumstances. We
are of the view that rental charges fixed upon that concept will avoid the discriminatory evils proscribed by the
Elkins Act.
With the modifications directed in this opinion, the order of the district court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
'- Cf. Palmer v. Connecticut Ry. & Lighting Co., 311 U. S. 544, 559,

and cases cited.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I cannot agree with the judgment in this case. In last
analysis the question presented is whether the Elkins Act
proscribes financial transactions by a city with proposed
occupants of a city-owned building because those occupants will be shippers in interstate commerce from such
building, where the city is to furnish no facilities or services of transportation, where the transactions involve no
payments, concessions or discriminations on the part of
any interstate carrier, are authorized by state law and are
for the city's benefit. A subsidiary question is whether in
fact the proposed transactions amount to discriminations
in favor of such occupants. A further question is presented with respect to the decree to be entered.
I find it unnecessary to discuss the evidence in detail, or
narrowly to examine the findings. I shall endeavor, for
the purpose of reaching the legal questions, to consider the
case in the light most favorable to the appellees.
The defendants DeOreo and Fean are not philanthropists but promoters who had more or less successfully
promoted produce terminals in various cities. They conceived the plan of establishing one in Kansas City, Kansas.
They expected a profit out of the venture. Their original
idea was that they should become lessees of the terminal
and make their profit by sub-renting space in it. When
this purpose was abandoned they sought to be made exclusive rental agents. Objection by the P. W. A. rendered this proposal impracticable. They have received
considerable payments from Union Pacific for their efforts
in connection with the establishment of the terminal.
DeOreo and Fean presented their plan to Union Pacific.
That company took an interest, not eleemosynary but
practical, in the project. Inasmuch as its tracks would
serve the proposed terminal, the railroad naturally desired that the plan go through so that it might get in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBF TS, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

creased business and obtain a competitive advantage
over other railroads serving the area known as Greater
Kansas City and particularly the food terminal at Kansas
City, Missouri. But the railroad did not desire to erect
the terminal. It sought to interest the officials of Kansas
City, Kansas, in the scheme, and succeeded in doing so.
Some years ago Kansas City, Kansas, had been given
a large tract of water-front land which, until recently,
had been unused. Through a P. W. A. grant and a loan
from Reconstruction Finance Corporation, the city had
made some improvements and had erected a grain elevator and docks on the tract which were served by the
lines of Union Pacific and Missouri Pacific. The balance
of the tract was available for a produce terminal. The
establishment of such an instrumentality would obviously
be of great benefit to the city in both financial and civic
aspects. The plan evolved was that the city should
erect such a terminal; that Union Pacific would construct
a large team track and switching yard on the ground
adjacent to the terminal to be leased by Union Pacific
from the city and that the terminal should be financed
by the city through a P. W. A. grant and income bonds.
DeOreo and Fean, Union Pacific, and the city officials
all struggled earnestly to obtain a grant from P. W. A.
An investigation by the Department of Agriculture disclosed that the terminal would be highly beneficial to the
producers tributary to the Kansas City market. Investigation by the P. W. A. disclosed that the scheme was desirable and practicable. A grant of not to exceed $1,700,000 was made, conditioned on the financing of the
remainder df the project.
Union Pacific and the city officials negotiated with an
underwriting house for the sale, by the city, of $3,000,000
of income bonds, $1,033,000 of which were to be used to
pay off the outstanding bonds, and the balance for the
erection of the terminal. Although a firm commitment

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

had been obtained, the bond house, at the last moment,
receded from the proposition, thus leaving the whole project in jeopardy. In this situation Union Pacific asserted
its willingness to buy the bonds. A bidding was held
and Union Pacific was the successful bidder. No question is made of the legality of this investment by the railroad, and its intention to take the bond issue was approved by P. W. A. and was certified to the Interstate
Commerce Commission. The city had no power to
pledge its property and its general revenues as security
for the bonds. It had full authority to issue income bonds,
interest, and principal to be paid from the receipts of the
terminal.'
.The condition precedent to the P. W. A. grant having been fulfilled, the city proceeded with the erection
of the terminal with the fullest aid and coaperation of
Union Pacific. That company had advanced some
$22,000 for preliminary expenses, which the city proposed to repay it. Under a ruling of P. W. A. the city
could not do so with funds procured for construction,
and if the sum is repaid the funds must come out of
income. The railroad, not unnaturally, retained an architect to collaborate with the city's architect respecting
the construction and exerted every effort to bring the
plan to fruition.
In Kansas City, Missouri, there was an existing wholesale produce market. This needed extensive alterations
and additions and the expectation was that many of the
tenants would move to the new and more convenient
terminal in Kansas City, Kansas. All who were interested in the latter realized that tenants of the old one in
Missouri might incur expense in giving up their quarters
and moving to the new. They realized also that, in order promptly to fill the new building, some concessions in
'State ex rel. Beck v. Kansas City, 149 Kan. 252; 86 P. 2d 476.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
RodnnTs, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

the amount of early-accruing rentals might have to be
made. An ice manufacturing and cold storage plant was
part of the project. A tenant was obtained for this
unit at a substantial rental. The city authorities negotiated an arrangement with the tenant for payment of
some $80,000 in advance rental. With this money, and
other advance rents it might obtain, the city felt that it
could arrange to reimburse persons who might become
tenants for losses incident to their removal. The question arose, however, as to the city's authority so to do.
The matter was referred to a committee of lawyers and
ultimately to the Attorney General of Kansas. That officer thought the matter should be settled by court decision. Accordingly a proceeding was instituted in the
Supreme Court of Kansas and that court held the city
had power, in the circumstances, to use advance rents in
the manner proposed.2
As was expected, tenants of the old market in Missouri, when solicited to move to the new, raised questions of losses due to unexpired leases, abandonment of
fixtures, etc. Everybody interested in the new terminal,
including DeOreo and Fean, employes of Union Pacific,
and representatives of the city, negotiated with these
prospective tenants in respect of what would be a
fair recompense for their losses due to removal and reestablishment. None of these negotiators had authority
to do more than ascertain the claims of such proposed
tenants, which were to be submitted to, and adjusted by,
a committee representing and acting for Kansas City,
Kansas. The evidence is uncontradicted and overwhelming that Union Pacific's employes, and everyone else concerned, made it clear that any adjustment of these losses
would have to be made by the city, and by the city only;
that the railroad could not, and would not, pay a cent
towards any such expense.
'State ex rel. Parker v. Kansas City, 151 Kan. 2; 98 P. 2d 101.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

When this suit was brought nothing had been paid to
any claimant. One claim had been approved by the committee. It turns out that although that claim was supported by affidavit it was in an unjustifiably large amount
with respect to the cancellation of an existing lease, but
there is no evidence that the city officials, in approving
the claim, knew this or would have approved the claim
had they known it, and there is no finding that the claim
was made in bad faith. Moreover, neither with respect
to this claim nor to any other which was under consideration at the time suit was instituted, is there evidence,
and there is no finding by the court below or by this
court, except by innuendo, that if the claims made were
paid any payee would have even been made whole for
losses consequent on moving and establishing himself in
the new location, or that he would thereby have had any
preference or advantage over other tenants to whom no
such payments were made.
At an early day in the development of the project, Union
Pacific expressed its willingness to switch all consignments
in and out of the terminal to and from other railroads at
a uniform and fair charge. It filed a switching tariff with
the Interstate Commerce Commission which has been accepted and is concurred in by the other railroads. The
tariff is the same as that which has been in force for similar service in Kansas City, Missouri. Thus, all railroads
and shippers are to be served indifferently and at a uniform and fair rate for the transportation services involved.
On these facts the question is whether the actions of the
railroad, those of the city, or those of the two jointly, constitute a rebate or a discrimination within the meaning of
the Elkins Act.'
1. It has always been understood that one of the purposes of the interstate commerce law was to prevent a
'49 U. S. C. §41 (1).

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
RoBArrs, J., dissenting.

313 U. S-

carrier from giving, and a shipper from receiving, transportation services at less than the published tariff rates,
and to preclude what is equivalent, namely, the furnishing of a service at tariff rates to one shipper which is withheld from others. The sections of the Elkins Act here
relied upon were merely intended to implement this Congressional aim and more efficiently to provide against
evasion. Thus it is made unlawful for any person or
corporation to offer, to grant, to give, or to solicit, to accept, or to receive, any rebate, concession or discrimination
in respect of the transportation of any property in interstate commerce by any common carrier subject to the
Interstate Commerce Act, whereby any such property shall
by any device whatever be transported at a less rate than
the published tariff rate, or whereby any other advantage
is given or discrimination is practiced. The language
seems too clear to be misunderstood. It is only the carrier, or someone acting in its behalf, who can give or grant
a concession. It is only the shipper, or someone acting
in his behalf, who can receive or solicit one. The section
as originally enacted goes on to provide: "Every person or
corporation who shall knowingly offer, grant, or give, or
solicit, accept, or receive any such rebate, concession or
discrimination" shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and punished by fine. As amended, it imposes a further
punishment by fine or imprisonment upon any officer of a
corporation or any person "acting for or employed by"
any corporation, who is convicted of violating the provisions of the Act. Until the present time no one has
supposed that a third party who is neither carrier nor
shipper and neither furnishes nor receives transportation
service, in making a business deal with a man who happens to be a shipper over an interstate carrier's line, may
render himself liable criminally if, and merely because,
the result of his transaction will be beneficial when reckoned up in the year's profit and loss statement of the other
party to the transaction.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

There seems to have been some question, although it is
hard to understand why, whether the penal provisions of
the Act applied to a shipper or his agents. When the Act
was amended by the Hepburn Act the phrase "every person or corporation" was supplemented by an epexegetical
clause "whether carrier or shipper." The legislative
record shows that the amendment was intended to make
sure that shippers who received rebates should be guilty
equally with carriers who gave them. It had no other
purpose.
Every decision applying the relevant provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act and the Elkins Act has turned
upon the fact that someone furnishing a service of transportation covered by a tariff has remitted a part of the
tariff charge, or has rendered a free service, or a service
below cost to some shippers which others did not enjoy;
and where one not a carrier has been held guilty of a
violation of the Act it has been because he returned to
the shipper, through one performing a part of the transportation service covered by the carrier's tariff, part of the
published rate, or has induced the carrier to perform a
service for the shipper covered by the tariff at less than the
published rate, or has induced the carrier to perform a
transportation service for a shipper to which the shipper
was not entitled under the published tariff and which,
therefore, the carrier failed to perform for others.
The District Court, sensible of this unbroken line of
authority, thought it necessary to attribute the proposed
payments in some way to Union Pacific. To reach this
result, it held that in the terminal enterprise Union Pacific
and Kansas City were joint adventurers. Obviously the
conclusion is incorrect. Union Pacific was in no sense a
partner and did not stand to make a profit from the conduct of the enterprise. It was a lessee of a part of the
property for its freight yard at an adequate rental. It
326252°-41-31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

was the owner of bonds lawfully acquired, and, as such,
dealt at arm's length with the city. Although the Government seeks to sustain the conclusion of the District
Court this court apparently discards it as unjustifiable.
In the second place, the District Court held that Union
Pacific and the city were in a conspiracy to grant compensation to prospective tenants. But this is not equivalent
to finding that the purpose of the conspiracy' was to grant
transportation to these tenants at less than the tariff rates
of Union Pacific. Inasmuch as it is conceded that there
was no purpose to grant any shipper any service not
granted to others, or to give any shipper a rebate from the
published tariff rates, it seems plain that the latter sort
of conspiracy is not made out.
Finally, the District Court sought to spell out a financial contribution by Union Pacific for the benefit of proposed tenants by what it denominated the waiver of the
lien of the bonds held by the railroad on the terminal
property. An examination of the decision of the Supreme Court of Kansas ' makes it clear that, under the
law of that State, the railroad had no lien, in any proper
sense of the term. The state court held that the obligation of the city under the bonds was to devote the net
profits of the enterprise to the payment of the principal
and interest, but that it was at liberty to pay all necessary operating expenses, including the expenses of obtaining tenants. I do not understand that the opinion of
this court approves the finding and conclusion of the District Court in this respect.
The ruling here is much broader, and does not condition violation of the law on any payment or concession
by Union Pacific. It is that if the city, which is not a
shipper, nor a carrier, and not a furnisher of any transportation service, in dealing with its own property not
'Note 2, supra.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

devoted to any service of transportation, sees fit to make
an advantageous financial arrangement with a proposed
tenant of its property, that transaction, otherwise legal,
at once becomes illegal and subjects the city, or its officers, to criminal penalties and to an injunction if it happens that the party with whom it deals becomes, in virtue of the transaction, a shipper over the lines of an interstate carrier, and is benefited by the transaction. The
distinction sought to be made between benefits applicable
to transportation and benefits generally seems to me illusory. The court expressly holds that intent is immaterial; that if the result is advantageous to the shipper, a
rebate, concession, or discrimination from the tariffs of
the carrier has been accomplished, within the meaning
of the Elkins Act.
I venture to think that no one will be more surprised
than the members of the Congress at the attribution of
the statutory phrase "every person" who gives or receives, grants or solicits rebates or discriminatory service,
to states and municipal corporations and their officers
who, in promoting lawful municipal purposes, incidentally bring additional business to an interstate carrier.
We know that it is a common practice for chambers of
commerce and city authorities to offer to manufacturing
and business concerns lands and sites on favorable terms,
such as low purchase price, reduced rentals, exemption
from taxation for a given period, in an effort to induce such
concerns to locate within the limits of a municipality.
We know that, in order to induce men to move their
plants from one location to another, it is a practical
necessity to offer them some recompense for the expense
involved and for the loss which may result from doing
business in a new location. Under the decision now announced, citizens or city officials connected with such a
transaction, though their purpose be wholly remote from
any benefit to a railroad, are guilty of a criminal
offense.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
RoBERTs, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

We also know that in the competitive effort of railroads to obtain business they have assisted municipalities to establish industries along their lines. It has never
been thought that such activity on the part of the railroad, where it gave nothing in money and rebated nothing from its published tariffs in service or rates, constituted a violation of the Elkins Act. To hold that, by
this statute, Congress intended to paralyze lawful effort,
well within the powers conferred by the states on their
municipalities, in the view that such effort constitutes a
rebate from a carrier's tariff rate, seems to me to place
a forced and unreasonable construction upon the words of
the Act.
The opinions of the court below and of this court point
out that, as a result of the consummation of the plan for
a terminal, Union Pacific expected to carry greatly increased traffic into and out of Kansas City and that this
increase necessarily would inflict losses upon its competitors. But the Elkins Act and the Interstate Commerce
Act were aimed at specific abuses, and were not general
prohibitions of all forms of competition between carriers
or limitations on the increase of a carrier's traffic by any
sort of competition. In fact, the Congressional policy
is to foster and encourage competition between railroads,
and to prohibit agreements or conspiracies to suppress
it.5 It is common knowledge that carriers customarily
advertise the advantages of sites lying along their lines
in the hope of encouraging shippers to locate thereon.
It seems to me that the circumstance so pointedly noticed is irrelevant to any question involved in this case.
Of course, Union Pacific was actuated by the legitimate
desire of increased traffic in all its efforts towards the
establishment of the terminal. That avowed motive
was, in my judgment, innocent and lawful. Moreover,
United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Association, 166 U. S. 290,
312, 325.

UNION PACIFIC R. CO. v. U. S.
450

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

in truth, this controversy has its roots in the competition
of two cities, rather than that of railroads.
2. Assuming, as the opinion does, that the city and its
officers were, within the meaning of the Act, persons "acting for" Union Pacific, the proof fails to disclose that the
sum proposed to be paid to any produce merchant in connection with his moving to the new terminal was in fact
more than fair compensation for loss or was a discrimination against any other tenant. There is no proof, and
indeed it would be very difficult to furnish any, that at the
end of one, two, or three years of business at the new
terminal,-considering the attendant expense of moving
and regstablishing the business at the new location, the
incident loss of good will and custom, and the necessity of
finding new custom to take the place of that lost,-the
balance sheet of any of the tenants would disclose that he
was better off than if he had stayed in his old location.
And it would be even more difficult to determine that a
sum paid him to cover such loss and damage is reflected
upon his books in the transportation charges paid by him,
rather than in the other items of expense connected with
his business. How shall any such allocation be made?
None such is necessary where the carrier itself, or someone
representing it, grants a concession from the published rate
or renders a service not comprehended in its tariff. In
such case the fact speaks for itself. In this case the court
assumes the fact and, by a blanket and sweeping decree,
bans any compensation, however just, to anyone for removing from an old location to the new terminal on the
suspicion that the payee may have some advantage over
another tenant who did not incur any such expense. Thus
the decree will render it impossible for Kansas City to
make what it deems legitimate and proper arrangements
for the prosecution of a business enterprise in no sense
consisting of the service of transportation. It seems clear
that Congress never had any such intent in adopting the

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

Elkins Act. This is to reach into the peculiarly local affairs of the states and to lay the dead hand upon the
otherwise lawful activities of states and their subdivisions.
Certainly a far more specific mandate should be required to
persuade us that Congress had any such purpose.
3. Another feature of the decree seems to me to be
equally unjustified. The record discloses that the city
adopted a standard form of lease which fixed a uniform
rental per unit of space. In order to fill the building
promptly, this lease provided that for the first three months
the monthly rental should be one-third of the standard
monthly rental. Thus a tenant who, after the three
months, would pay $150 a unit would get the use of that
unit for the first three months for $50. It is again common knowledge that, in a competitive situation, the owner
often has to make rental concessions for a brief time at
the beginning of the lease term. There is nothing unlawful about this and the decision of the Supreme Court of
Kansas sanctions it. The court below swept aside all
these arrangements and, although it found "the present
rental rates and the consequent return to the City are not
so low that the use of the Food Terminal by tenants in
interstate commerce at those rentals will amount to a gift
of any part of the value of the use of the Food Terminal to
the tenant shippers," it nevertheless required that the
rentals must be such as to allow a fair return to the city
on the total value of the premises including the product
of the money granted by P. W. A. and the land acquired by
free gift. Under the law, the city was at liberty to turn
this land to account in such manner and at such rate of
return as it might see fit. While the opinion of the court
holds this provision of the decree erroneous, it substitutes
what I think an equally improper rule. The city is to be
prohibited from leasing its own publicly owned property,
in the prosecution of an enterprise which it deems beneficial to the community, at rates it deems proper and rates

KLAXON CO. v. STENTOR CO.
450

Syllabus.

which are otherwise within its lawful power. It is told
that it must get a fair rental value, and various criteria of
fairness are suggested. Thus, the court holds that Congress intended in such a situation to shackle the municipal
arm of a sovereign state, for the indefinite future, and compel it to conduct its business contrary to what the law of
its own state permits. This result cannot be justified in
the guise of preventing an alleged rebate of tariff rates by
a carrier, unconnected with and neither controlled by the
city nor exerting any legal control over the city, whose only
function is that of serving those who use the city's facilities.
I am of opinion that the bill should have been dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAs join in

this opinion.

KLAXON

COMPANY v. STENTOR ELECTRIC
MANUFACTURING CO., INC.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 741.

Argued May 1, 2, 1941.-Decided June 2, 1941.

1. In diversity of citizenship cases, the federal courts, when deciding questions of conflict of laws, must follow the rules prevailing
in the States in which they sit. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304
U. S. 64. P. 496.
2. In an action in a federal court, in Delaware, for breach of a
New York contract, the applicability of a New York statute
directing that interest be added to the recovery in contract cases
is a question of conflict of laws, which the federal court must
determine by the law of Delaware. P. 496.
3. The Full Faith and Credit Clause does not require that a State,
contrary to its own policy, shall give effect in actions brought
locally on contracts made in other States, to laws of those States
relating, not to the validity of such contracts, but to the right
to add interest to the recovery as an incidental item of damages.

