PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

177

Syllabus.

One of the most important safeguards of the rights of
litigants and the minimal constitutional requirement, in
proceedings before an administrative agency vested with
discretion, is that it cannot rightly exclude from consideration facts and circumstances relevant to its inquiry which
upon due consideration may be of persuasive weight in
the exercise of its discretion. InterstateCommerce Commission v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88, 102;
St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 38,
75, 78; Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Commission, 301 U. S.

292,304,305.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concur in

this opinion.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. NATIONAL

LABOR

RELATIONS BOARD.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 387.

Argued March 11, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

1. Under § 8 (3) of the National Labor Relations Act, an employer
who refuses to hire an applicant for employment solely because of
the applicant's affiliation with a labor union is guilty of an unfair
labor practice. P. 182.
2. When applicants have been unlawfully refused employment solely
because of their affiliations with a labor union, § 10 (c) of the Labor
Act empowers the Labor Board to order the employer to undo the
discrimination by offering them the opportunity for employment
which should not have been denied them. P. 187.
3. In this the Act does not violate the Fifth Amendment. P. 187.
4. In § 10 (c) of the Labor Act, empowering the Labor Board to
require an employer guilty of an unfair labor practice to desist and
*Together with No. 641, National Labor Relations Board v. Phelps
Dodge Corp., also on writ of certiorari, 312 U. S. 669, to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
226252°-41-

12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

313 U. S.

to take such affirmative action, "including reinstatement of employees with or without back pay," as will effectuate the policies
of the Act, the participial phrase "including reinstatement," etc.,
is illustrative merely and is not to be construed as a limitation upon
the Board's power to remedy unlawful discrimination in the hiring
as well as in the discharge of workers. P. 188.
5. Under § 10 (c) of the Labor Relations Act an employer who has
been guilty of the unfair labor practice of refusing to hire men because of their union affiliations may be required by the Board, for
effectuation of the policies of the Act, to offer them opportunity for
employment, even though they have, in the meantime, obtained
regular and substantially equivalent employment elsewhere. P. 189.
6. The broad meaning of the term "employee" as used in § 10 (c) of
the Labor Act and in the earlier part of § 2 (3), is not restricted
by the concluding clause of § 2 (3), which declares that the term
"employee" shall include any individual whose work has ceased as
a consequence of any unfair labor practice "and who has not obtained any other regular and substantially equivalent employment."
P. 191.
This last provision is assignable to other purposes, e. g., for determining who are the "employees" with whom an employer must
bargain collectively, §§ 8 (5), 9 (a), or who are to be treated as
"employees" within a bargaining unit, § 9 (b).
7. To deny the Board power to neutralize discrimination merely
because workers have obtained other compensatory employment
would confine the "policies of this Act" to the correction of private injuries, whereas the Board was not devised for such a limited
function, but is the agency of Congress for translating into concreteness the purpose of safeguarding and encouraging the right
of self-organization. P. 192.
8. Although an employer who has denied re-employment to workers
solely because of their labor union affiliations may be required to
offer them employment notwithstanding their having obtained
equivalent employment elsewhere, this remedy does not flow from
the Act automatically when the discrimination is found, but depends upon a finding by the Board, in the exercise of its informed
discretion, that effectuation of the policies of the Act requires
such reinstatement. P. 193.
9. An order of the Labor Board requiring an employer to reinstate
strikers who obtained other employment, should state the basis
of the order. P. 197.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 179
177

Argument for the Corporation.

10. The remedy of ordering back pay is in the Board's discretion,
not mechanically compelled by the Act. P. 198.
11. Where an order of the Labor Board requires that a worker
be restored to employment and be compensated for loss of pay,
deduction should be made not only for actual earnings of the
worker while out of employment but also for losses which he willfully incurred. P. 197.
12. The amount of such deduction should be determined by the
Board prior to formulation of its order. P. 200.
113 F. 2d 202, modified.

CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 669, to review a judgment sustaining in part and in part disapproving an order of the
National Labor Relations Board, 19 N. L. R. B. 547.
Mr. Denison Kitchel, with whom Messrs. John Mason
Ross, Matthew C. Fleming, and William E. Stevenson
were on the brief, for the Phelps Dodge Corporation.
It is not an unfair labor practice for an employer to
refuse employment because of union membership or activity to one who is not his "employee" as that term is
defined in § 2 (3) of the Act, and the Board has no authority to order the employment of or the payment of
back pay to such a person.
If construed to authorize the Board to require the
employment of one who was not an "employee" at the
time when he was refused employment, the Act violates
the Fifth Amendment.
The individuals who went on strike on June 10, 1935,
were not "employees" of the Company when the Act
became effective and did not become such by virtue of
its provisions.
They have at no time occupied the status of "employees" under the Act and no unfair labor practice has
been committed by the Company. They did not occupy
the status of "employees" between July 5, 1935, and
August 24, 1935, merely by virtue of the picketing, which
was discontinued on the latter date.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the Corporation.

313 U. S.

Even assuming that the persons who went on strike
on June 10, 1935, were "employees" of the Company
under the Act between July 5 and August 24, 1935, there
was no discriminatory refusal to "reinstate" and consequently, no unfair labor practice during that period.
The discriminatory refusals to hire occurred after August 24, 1935, but from and after that date the persons
who had previously been on strike were clearly not ."employees" and no unfair labor practice was committed.
The Board has no authority under § 10 (c) to order
the reinstatement of persons who were discriminated
against while occupying the status of "employees" as
defined in § 2 (3), but who thereafter obtained "other
regular and substantially equivalent employment" within
the meaning of the latter provision, because such persons no longer occupy the'status of "employees."
Section 10 (c) limits the Board's authority to "reinstatement of employees with or without back pay" and
does not authorize the Board to award back pay to persons as to whom it has no authority to order reinstatement.
A person who has been the object of an unfair labor
practice has the duty of exercising reasonable diligence
to secure and retain other employment and the amount
of back pay to which he might otherwise be entitled
should be reduced by whatever amount he failed without
excuse to earn.
Where the representatives of persons who claim to have
been discriminated against delay for more than two years
before filing charges, and the Board thereafter takes an
additional two and a half years to dispose of the case, an
employer who during that entire period has been helpless to obtain a determination of his rights and obligations is entitled to judicial relief from an excessive award
of back pay.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 181
177

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Thomas E. Harris, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle and Messrs. Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp,
Mortimer B. Wolf, and Morris P. Glushien were on the
brief, for the National Labor Relations Board.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The dominating question which this litigation brings
here for the first time is whether an employer subject
to the National Labor Relations Act may refuse to hire
employees solely because of their affiliations with a labor
union. Subsidiary questions grow out of this central
issue relating to the means open to the Board to "effectuate the policies of this Act," if it finds such discrimination in hiring an "unfair labor practice." Other questions touching the remedial powers of the Board are also
involved. We granted a petition by the Phelps Dodge
Corporation and a cross-petition by the Board, 312
U. S. 669, to review a decision by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, 113 F. 2d 202, which
enforced the order of the Board, 19 N. L. R. B. 547, with
modifications. The main issue is intrinsically important
and has stirred a conflict of decisions. Labor Board v.
Waumbec Mills, 114 F. 2d 226.
The source of the controversy was a strike, begun on
June 10, 1935, by the International Union of Mine, Mill
and Smelter Workers at Phelps Dodge's Copper Queen
Mine, Bisbee, Arizona. Picketing of the mine continued
until August 24, 1935, when the strike terminated. During the strike, the National Labor Relations Act came
into force. Act of July 5, 1935, 49S.tat. 449, 29 U. S. C.
§ 151 et seq. The basis of the Board's conclusion that the
Corporation had committed unfair labor practices in violation of § 8 (3) of the Act was a finding, not challenged
here, that a number of men had been refused employment

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

because of their affiliations with the Union. Of these
men, two, Curtis and Daugherty, had ceased to be in the
Corporation's employ before the strike but sought employment after its close. The others, thirty-eight in
number, were strikers. To "effectuate the policies" of the
Act, § 10 (c), the Board ordered the Corporation to offer
Curtis and Daugherty jobs and to make them whole for
the loss of pay resulting from the refusal to hire them,
and it ordered thirty-seven of the strikers reinstated with
back pay, and the other striker made whole for loss in
wages up to the time he became unemployable. Save for
a modification presently to be discussed, the Circuit Court
of Appeals enforced the order affecting the strikers but
struck down the provisions relating to Curtis and
Daugherty.
First. The denial of jobs to men because of union affiliations is an old and familiar aspect of American industrial relations. Therefore, in determining whether
such discrimination legally survives the National Labor
Relations Act, the history which led to the Act and the
aims which infuse it give direction to our inquiry. Congress explicitly disclosed its purposes in declaring the policy which underlies the Act. Its ultimate concern, as
well as the source of its power, was "to eliminate the
causes of certain substantial obstructions to the free flow
of commerce." This vital national purpose was to be
accomplished "by encouraging the practice and procedure of collective bargaining and by protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom of association." § 1.
Only thus could workers ensure themselves economic
standards consonant with national well-being. Protection of the workers' right to self-organization does not
curtail the appropriate sphere of managerial freedom; it
furthers the wholesome conduct of business enterprise.
"The Act," this Court has said, "does not interfere with
the normal exercise of the right of the employer to select

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 183
177

Opinion of the Court.

its employees or to discharge them." But "under cover
of that right," the employer may not "intimidate or coerce
its employees with respect to their self-organization and
representation." When "employers freely recognize the
right of their employees to their own organizations and
their unrestricted right of representation there will be
much less occasion for controversy in respect to the free
and appropriate exercise of the right of selection and discharge." Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1,
45, 46. This is so because of the nature of modern industrialism. Labor unions were organized "out of the
necessities of the situation. . . . Union was essential to
give laborers opportunity to deal on equality with their
employer." Such was the view, on behalf of the Court,
of Chief Justice Taft, American Steel Foundries v. TrCity Council, 257 U. S.184, 209, after his unique practical
experience with the causes of industrial unrest as co-chairman of the National War Labor Board. And so the present Act, codifying this long history, leaves the adjustment
of industrial relations to the free play of economic forces
but seeks to assure that the play of those forces be truly
free.
It is no longer disputed that workers cannot be dismissed from employment because of their union affiliations. Is the national interest in industrial peace less
affected by discrimination against union activity when
men are hired? The contrary is overwhelmingly attested
by the long history of industrial conflicts, the diagnosis
of their causes by official investigations, the conviction
of public men, industrialists and scholars.' Because of
"United States Industrial Commission, Final Report (1902) p.
892; Anthracite Coal Strike Commission, Report to the President
on the Coal Strike of May-October, 1902, S. Doe. No. 6, 58th Cong.,
Spec. Sess., p. 78; Laidler, Boycotts and the Labor Struggle (1913)
p. 39 et seq.; United States Commission on Industrial Relations,
Final Report (1916) S.Doe. No. 415, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 118;

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the Pullman strike, Congress in the Erdman Act of 1898
prohibited inroads upon the workingman's right of asso2
ciation by discriminatory practices at the point of hiring.
Kindred legislation has been put on the statute books
of more than half the states.' And during the late war
the National War Labor Board concluded that discrimination against union men at the time of hiring violated its declared policy that "The right of workers to
organize in trade-unions and to bargain collectively ...
Interchurch World Movement, Commission of Inquiry, Report on
the Steel Strike of 1919 (1920) pp. 27, 209, 219; Bonnet, Employers' Associations in the United States (1922) pp. 80, 296, 550;
Gulick, Labor Policy of the United States Steel Corporation (1924)
pp. 125-27; Cummins, The Labor Problem in the United States
(2d ed. 1935) p. 351; Bureau of Labor Investigation of Western
Union and Postal Telegraph-Cable Companies (1909) S. Doe. No.
725, 60th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 39-41; S. Rep. No. 46, Part 1, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 8.
'30 Stat. 424; see United States Strike Commission, Report on
the Chicago Strike of June-July, 1894, S. Doc. No. 7, 53d Cong.,
3d Sess.; Olney, Discrimination Against Union Labor-Legal? (1908)
42 Amer. L. Rev. 161.
8
Ala. Code Ann. (1928) § 3451; Ark., Acts of 1905, Act 214, p.
545; Cal. Labor Code (1937) § § 1050-54; Colo. Stat. Ann. (1935)
c. 97, i§§ 88, 89, 93; Conn. Gen. Stat. (1930) § § 6210-11; Fla.
Comp. Gen. Laws Ann. (1927) § 6606; Ill. Ann. Stat. (1935) c. 38,
§ 139; Ind. Stat. Ann. (1933) § § 40-301, 40-302; Iowa Code (1939)
§§ 13253-54; Kan. Gen. Stat. (1935) §§ 44-117, 44-118, 44-119;
Me. Laws (1933) c. 108; Minn. Stat. (1927) § 10378; Miss. Code
Ann. (1927) § § 9271-74; Mo. Rev. Stat. (1939) § 4643; Mont.
Rev. Code Ann. (1935) § § 3093-94; Nev. Comp. Laws (1929)
§1§ 10461-63; N. M. Stat. Ann. (1929) § § 35-4613, 35-4614,
35-4615; New York Labor Law § 704(2), (9); N. C. Code Ann.
(1939) § §4477-78; N. D. Comp. Laws Ann. (1913) § 9446; Okla.
Stat. Ann. (1937) tit. 40, § § 172-73; Ore. Comp. Laws Ann. (194)
§ § 102-806, 102-.807; Tex. Stat. (1936) arts. 1616-1618; Utah
Rev. Stat. Ann. (1933) § § 49-5-1, 49-5-2; Va. Code (1936) § 1817;
Wash. Rev. Stat. Ann. (1932) § 7599; Wis. Stat. (1939) § 343.682.
See (1937) 37 Col. L. Rev. 816, 819; Witte, The Government in
Labor Disputes (1932) pp. 213-18.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 185
177

Opinion of the Court.

shall not be denied, abridged, or interfered with by the
employers in any manner whatsoever." ' Such a policy
is an inevitable corollary of the principle of freedom of organization. Discrimination against union labor in the
hiring of men is a dam to self-organization at the source
of supply. The effect of such discrimination is not confined to the actual denial of employment; it inevitably
operates against the whole idea of the legitimacy of organization. In a word, it undermines the principle which,
as we have seen, is recognized as basic to the attainment of
industrial peace.
These are commonplaces in the history of American industrial relations. But precisely for that reason they must
be kept in the forefront in ascertaining the meaning of a
major enactment dealing with these relations. To be sure,
in outlawing unfair labor practices Congress did not leave
the matter at large. The practices condemned "are
strictly limited to those enumerated in section 8," S. Rep.
No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 8. Section 8 (3) is the
foundation of the Board's determination that in refusing
employment to the two men because of their union affiliations Phelps Dodge violated the Act. And so we turn to
its provisions that "It shall be an unfair labor practice for
an employer . . . By discrimination in regard to hire or

tenure of employment or any term or condition of employment to encourage or discourage membership in any
labor organization."
Unlike mathematical symbols, the phrasing of such social legislation as this seldom attains more than approximate precision of definition. That is why all relevant
aids are summoned to determine meaning. Of compelling
'Awards of the National War Labor Board: Sloss-Sheffield Steel
& Iron Co., Docket No. 12. See also Omaha & Council Bluffs
Street Ry., Docket No. 154; Smith & Wesson Co., Docket No. 273.
Cf. Gregg, The National War Labor Board (1919) 33 Harv. L.
Rev. 39.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

consideration is the fact that words acquire scope and function from the history of events which they summarize.
We have seen the close link between a bar to employment
because of union affiliation and the opportunities of labor
organizations to exist and to prosper. Such an embargo
against employment of union labor was notoriously one
of the chief obstructions to collective bargaining through
self-organization. Indisputably the removal of such obstructions was the driving force behind the enactment of
the National Labor Relations Act. The prohibition
against "discrimination in regard to hire" must be applied
as a means towards the accomplishment of the main object
of the legislation. We are asked to read "hire" as meaning the wages paid to an employee so as to make the statute
merely forbid discrimination in one of the terms of men
who have secured employment. So to read the statute
would do violence to a spontaneous textual reading of
§ 8 (3) in that "hire" would serve no function because, in
the sense which is urged upon us, it is included in the prohibition against "discrimination in regard to . . . any
term or condition of employment." Contemporaneous
legislative history,5 and, above all, the background of industrial experience, forbid such textual mutilation.
The natural construction which the text, the legislative
setting and the function of the statute command, does not
impose an obligation on the employer to favor union members in hiring employees. He is as free to hire as he is to
'Rather clearly the House Committee which reported the bill
viewed the ' word "hire" as covering the situation before us. H. R.
Rep. No. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 19. The Chairman of the
Senate Committee expressly stated during the debate that "no
employer may discriminate in hiring a man whether he belongs to a
union or not, and without regard to what union he belongs [except
where there is a valid closed shop agreement]." 79 Cong. Rec.
7674. For further materials bearing on the legislative history see
the able opinion of Judge Magruder in Labor Board v. Waumbec
Mills, 114 F. 2d 226.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 187
177

Opinion of the Court.

discharge employees. The statute does not touch "the
normal exercise of the right of the employer to select its
employees or to discharge them." It is directed solely
against the abuse of that right by interfering with the
countervailing right of self-organization.
We have already recognized the power of Congress to
deny an employer the freedom to discriminate in discharging. Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1.
So far as questions of constitutionality are concerned we
need not enlarge on the statement of Judge Learned Hand
in his opinion below that there is "no greater limitation
in denying him [the employer] the power to discriminate
in hiring, than in discharging." The course of decisions
in this Court since Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161,
and Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, have completely
sapped those cases of their authority. Pennsylvania R.
Co. v. LaborBoard, 261 U. S. 72; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548; Virginian Ry. v. Federation, 300 U. S. 515; Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin,
supra.
Second. Since the refusal to hire Curtis and Daugherty
solely because of their affiliation with the Union was an
unfair labor practice under § 8 (3), the remedial authority
of the Board under § 10 (c) became operative. Of course
it could issue, as it did, an order "to cease and desist from
such unfair labor practice" in the future. Did Congress
also empower the Board to order the employer to undo
the wrong by offering the men discriminated against the
opportunity for employment which should not have been
denied them?
Reinstatement is the conventional correction for discriminatory discharges. Experience having demonstrated that discrimination in hiring is twin to discrimination in firing, it would indeed be surprising if Congress
gave a remedy for the one which it denied for the other.
The powers of the Board as well as the restrictions upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

it must be drawn from § 10 (c), which directs the Board
"to take such affirmative action, including reinstatement
of employees with or without back pay, as will effectuate
the policies of this Act." It could not be seriously denied that to require discrimination in hiring or firing
to be "neutralized," Labor Board v. Mackay Co., 304
U. S. 333, 348, by requiring the discrimination to cease
not abstractly but in the concrete victimizing instances,
is an "affirmative action" which "will effectuate the
policies of this Act." Therefore, if § 10 (c) had empowered the Board to "take such affirmative action as will
effectuate the policies of this Act," the right to restore
to a man employment which was wrongfully denied him
could hardly be doubted. Even without such a mandate from Congress this Court compelled reinstatement
to enforce the legislative policy against discrimination
represented by the Railway Labor Act. Texas & N. 0.
R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548.' Attainment of
a great national policy through expert administration in
collaboration with limited judicial review must not be
confined within narrow canons for equitable relief
deemed suitable by chancellors in ordinary private controversies. Compare Virginian Ry. v. Federation, 300
U. S. 515, 552. To differentiate between discrimination
in denying employment and in terminating it, would be
a differentiation not only without substance but in defiance of that against which the prohibition of discrimination is directed.
But, we are told, this is precisely the differentiation
Congress has made. It has done so, the argument runs,
'An injunction had been granted against interference with the
workers' self-organization and reinstatement was ordered in contempt proceedings after employees had been discharged for union
activities. Surely, a court of equity has no greater inherent authority in this regard than was conveyed to the Board by the broad
grant of all such remedial powers as will, from case to case,

translate into actuality the policies of the Act.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 189
177

Opinion of the Court.

by not directing the Board "to take such. affirmative action as will effectuate the policies of this Act," simpliciter,
but, instead, by empowering the Board "to take such
affirmative action, including reinstatement of employees
with or without back pay, as will effectuate the policies
of this Act." To attribute such a function to the participial phrase introduced by "including" is to shrivel a
versatile principle to an illustrative application. We
find no justification whatever for attributing to Congress
such a casuistic withdrawal of the authority which, but
for the illustration, it clearly has given the Board. The
word "including" does not lend itself to such destructive
significance. Helvering v. Morgan's, Inc., 293 U. S. 121,
125, note.
Third. We agree with the court below that the record
warrants the Board's finding that the strikers were denied reemployment because of their union activities.
Having held that the Board can neutralize such discrimination in the case of men seeking new employment, the
Board certainly had this power in regard to the strikers.
And so we need not consider whether the order concerning the strikers should stand, as the court below held it
should, even though that against Curtis and Daugherty
would fall.
Fourth. There remain for consideration the limitations upon the Board's power to undo the effects of discrimination. Specifically, we have the question of the
Board's power to order employment in cases where the
men discriminated against had obtained "substantially
equivalent employment." The Board as a matter of fact
found that no such employment had been obtained, but
alternatively concluded that, in any event, the men
should be offered employment. The court below, on
the other hand, in harmony with three other circuits,
Mooresville Cotton Mills v. Labor Board, 94 F. 2d 61
(C. C. A. 4th); Labor Board v. Botany Worsted Mills,

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

106 F. 2d 263 (C. C. A. 3rd); Labor Board v. Carlisle
Lumber Co., 99 F. 2d 533 (C. C. A. 9th), ruled that employment need not be offered any worker who had obtained such employment, and since the record as to some
of the strikers who had gone to work at the Shattuck
Denn Company was indecisive on this issue, remanded
the case to the Board for further findings. This aspect
of the Board's authority depends on the relation of the
general remedial powers conferred by § 10 (c) to the provisions of § 2 (3).
The specific provisions of the Act out of which the
proper conclusion is to be drawn should be before us.
Section 10 (c), as we already know, authorizes the Board
"to take such affirmative action, including reinstatement
of employees with or without back pay, as will effectuate
the policies of this Act." The relevant portions of § 2
(3) follow: "The term 'employee' shall include any employee, and shall not be limited to the employees of
a particular employer, unless the Act explicitly states
otherwise, and shall include any individual whose work
has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with,
any current labor dispute or because of any unfair labor
practice, and who has not obtained any other regular and
substantially equivalent employment."
Merely as a matter of textual reading these provisions
in combination permit three possible constructions: (1)
a curtailment of the powers of the Board to take affirmative action by reading into § 10 (c) the restrictive phrase
of § 2 (3) regarding a worker "who has not obtained
any other regular and substantially equivalent employment"; (2) a completely distributive reading of § 10 (c)
and § 2 (3), whereby the factor of "regular and substantially equivalent employment" in no way limits
the Board's usual power to require employment to be
offered a worker who has lost employment because of
discrimination; (3) an avoidance of this either-or read-

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 191
177

Opinion of the Court.

ing of the statute by pursuing the central clue to the
Board's powers-effectuation of the policies of the Actand in that light appraising the relevance of a worker's
having obtained "substantially equivalent employment."
Denial of the Board's power to order opportunities
of employment in this situation derives wholly from
an infiltration of a portion of § 2 (3) into § 10 (c). The
argument runs thus: § 10 (c) specifically refers to "reinstatement of employees"; the latter portion of § 2 (3)
refers to an "employee" as a person "who has not obtained
any other regular and substantially equivalent employment"; therefore, there can be no reinstatement of an
employee who has obtained such employment. The
syllogism is perfect. But this is a bit of verbal logic
from which the meaning of things has evaporated. In
the first place, we have seen that the Board's power to
order an opportunity for employment does not derive
from the phrase "including reinstatement of employees
with or without back pay," and is not limited by it.
Secondly, insofar as any argument is to be drawn from
the reference to "employees" in § 10 (c), it must be noted
that the reference is to "employees," unqualified and
undifferentiated. To circumscribe the general class,
"employees," we must find authority either in the policy
of the Act or in some specific delimiting provision
of it.
Not only is the Act devoid of a comprehensive definition of "employee" restrictive of § 10 (c) but the contrary is the fact. The problem of what workers were
to be covered by legal remedies for assuring the right
of self-organization was a familiar one when Congress
formulated the Act. The policy which it expressed in
defining "employee" both affirmatively and negatively,
as it did in § 2 (3), had behind it important practical
and judicial experience. "The term 'employee'," the section reads, "shall include any employee, and shall not

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

be limited to the employees of a particular employer,
unless the Act explicitly states otherwise. . . ." This
was not fortuitous phrasing. It had reference to the
controversies engendered by constructions placed upon
the Clayton Act and kindred state legislation in relation
to the functions of workers' organizations and the desire
not to repeat those controversies. Cf. New Negro Alliance v. Grocery Co., 303 U. S. 552. The broad definition of "employee," "unless the Act explicitly states otherwise," as well as the definition of "labor dispute" in
§ 2 (9), expressed the conviction of Congress "that disputes may arise regardless of whether the disputants
stand in the proximate relation of employer and employee, and that self-organization of employees may,
extend beyond a single plant or employer." H. R. Rep.
No. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 9; see also S. Rep.
No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 6, 7.
The reference in § 2 (3) to workers who have "obtained regular and substantially equivalent employment"
has a r6le consonant with some purposes of the Act but
not one destructive of the broad definition of "employee"
with which § 2 (3) begins. In determining whether an
employer has refused to bargain collectively with the
representatives of "his employees" in violation of § 8 (5)
and § 9 (a) it is of course essential to determine who
constitute "his employees." One aspect of this is covered by § 9 (b) which provides for determination of the
appropriate bargaining unit. And once the unit is
selected, the reference in § 2 (3) to workers who have
obtained equivalent employment comes into operation in
determining who shall be treated as employees within
the unit.
To deny the Board power to neutralize discrimination
merely because workers have obtained compensatory employment would confine the "policies of this Act" to the

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 193
177

Opinion of the Court.

correction of private injuries. The Board was not devised for such a limited function. It is the agency of
Congress for translating into concreteness the purpose of
safeguarding and encouraging the right of self-organization. The Board, we have held very recently, does not
exist for the "adjudication of private rights"; it "acts in
a public capacity to give effect to the declared public
policy of the Act to eliminate and prevent obstructions
to interstate commerce by encouraging collective bargaining." National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S.
350, 362; and see Amalgamated Utility Workers v. Edison
Co., 309 U. S. 261. To be sure, reinstatement is not
needed to repair the economic loss of a worker who, after
discrimination, has obtained an equally profitable job.
But to limit the significance of discrimination merely to
questions of monetary loss to workers would thwart the
central purpose of the Act, directed as that is toward
the achievement and maintenance of workers' selforganization. That there are factors other than loss of
wages to a particular worker to be considered is suggested
even by a meager knowledge of industrial affairs. Thus,
to give only one illustration, if men were discharged who
were leading efforts at organization in a plant having a
low wage scale, they would not unnaturally be compelled
by their economic circumstances to seek and obtain employment elsewhere at equivalent wages. In such a situation, to deny the Board power to wipe out the prior
discrimination by ordering the employment of such workers would sanction a most effective way of defeating the
right of self-organization.
Therefore, the mere fact that the victim of discrimination has obtained equivalent employment does not
itself preclude the Board from undoing the discrimination
and requiring employment. But neither does this remedy automatically flow from the Act itself when discrim326252°-41-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

ination has been found. A statute expressive of such
large public policy as that on which the National Labor
Relations Board is based must be broadly phrased and
necessarily carries with it the task of administrative application. There is an area plainly covered by the language of the Act and an area no less plainly without it.
But in the nature of things Congress could not catalogue
all the devices and stratagems for circumventing the policies of the Act. Nor could it define the whole gamut of
remedies to effectuate these policies in an infinite variety
of specific situations. Congress met these difficulties by
leaving the adaptation of means to end to the empiric
process of administration. The exercise of the process
was committed to the Board, subject to limited judicial
review. Because the relation of remedy to policy is peculiarly a matter for administrative competence, courts
must not enter the allowable area of the Board's discretion and must guard against the danger of sliding unconsciously from the narrow confines of law into the more
spacious domain of policy. On the other hand, the power
with which Congress invested the Board implies responsibility-the responsibility of exercising its judgment in
employing the statutory powers.
The Act does not create rights for individuals which
must be vindicated according to a rigid scheme of remedies. It entrusts to an expert agency the maintenance
and promotion of industrial peace. According to the experience revealed by the Board's decisions, the effectuation of this important policy generally requires not only
compensation for the loss of wages but also offers of employment to the victims of discrimination. Only thus
can there be a restoration of the situation, as nearly as
possible, to that which would have obtained but for the
illegal discrimination. But even where a worker has not
secured equivalent employment, the Board, under particular circumstances, may refuse to order his employment

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 195
177

Opinion of the Court.

because it would not effectuate the policies of the Act.
It has, for example, declined to do so in the case of a
worker who had been discharged for union activities and
had sought reemployment after having offered his services as a labor spy. Matter of Thompson Cabinet Co., 11
N. L. R. B. 1106, 1116-17.
From the beginning the Board has recognized that a
worker who has obtained equivalent employment is in a
different position from one who has lost his job as well
as his wages through an employer's unfair labor practice.
In early decisions, the Board did not order reinstatement
of workers who had secured such equivalent employment.
See Matter of Rabhor Co., Inc., 1 N. L. R. B. 470, 481;
Matter of Jeffery-De Witt Insulator Co., 1 N. L. R. B. 618,
628. It apparently focussed on the absence of loss of
wages in determining the applicable remedy. But other
factors may well enter into the appropriateness of ordering the offending employer to offer employment to one
illegally denied it. Reinstatement may be the effective
assurance of the right of self-organization. Again, without such a remedy industrial peace might be endangered
because workers would be resentful of their inability to
return to jobs to which they may have been attached
and from which they were wrongfully discharged. ,On
the other hand, it may be, as was urged on behalf of the
Board in Mooresville Cotton Mills v. Labor Board, 97 F.
2d 959, 963, that, in making such an order for reinstatement the necessity for making room for the old employees
by discharging new ones, as well as questions affecting the
dislocation of the business, ought to be considered. All
these and other factors outside our domain of experience
may come into play. Their relevance is for the Board,
not for us. In the exercise of its informed discretion the
Board may find that effectuation of the Act's policies may
or may not require reinstatement. We have no warrant
for speculating on matters of fact the determination of

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

which Congress has entrusted to the Board. All we are
entitled to ask is that the statute speak through the Board
where the statute does not speak for itself.
The only light we have on the Board's decision in this
case is its statement that, if any of the workers discriminated against had obtained substantially equivalent employment, they should be offered employment "for the
reasons set forth in" Matter of Eagle-Picher Mining &
Smelting Co., 16 N. L. R. B. 727', 833. But in that case
the Board merely concluded that § 2 (3) did not deny it
the power to order reinstatement; it did not consider
the appropriateness of its exercise. Thus the Board determined only the dry legal question of its power, which
we sustain; it did not consider whether in employing
that power the policies of the Act would be enforced.
The court below found, and the Board has not challenged
the finding, that the Board left the issue of equivalence
of jobs at the Shattuck Denn Company in doubt, and
remanded the order to the Board for further findings.
Of course, if the Board finds that equivalent employment
has not been obtained, it is within its province to require
offers of rebmployment in accordance with its general
conclusion that a worker's loss in wages and in general
working conditions must be made whole. Even if it
should find that equivalent jobs were secured by the men
who suffered from discrimination, it may order employment at Phelps Dodge if it finds that to do so would
effectuate the policies of the Acj We believe that the
procedure we have indicated will likewise effectuate the
policies of the Act by making workable the system of
restricted judicial review in relation to the wide discretionary authority which Congress has given the Board.
From the record of the present case we cannot really
tell why the Board has ordered reinstatement of the
strikers who obtained subsequent employment. The
Board first found that the men had not obtained sub-

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 197
177

Opinion of the Court.

stantially equivalent employment within the meaning of
§ 2 (3),; later it concluded that even if they had obtained
It
such employment it would order their reinstatemen.
it
because
noted,
merely
have
as
we
did so, however,
asserted its legal power so to do. When the court below
held that proof did not support the Board's finding concerning equivalence of employment at Shattuck Denn
and remanded the case to the Board for additional evidence on that issue, the Board took this issue out of
the case by expressly declining to ask for its review here.
FThe administrative process will best be vindicated by'
clarity in its exercise. Since Congress has defined the
authority of the Board and the procedure by which it
must be asserted and has charged the federal courts with
the duty of reviewing the Board's orders (§ 10 (e) and
(f)), it will avoid needless litigation and make for effective and expeditious enforcement of the Board's order to
require the Board to disclose the basis of its order. We
do not intend to enter the province that belongs to the
Board, nor do we do so. All we ask of the Board is to
give clear indication that it has exercised the discretion
with which Congress has empowered it. This is to affirm
-4
most emphatically the authority of the Board.
Fifth. As part of its remedial action against the unfair
labor practices, the Board ordered that workers who had
been denied employment be made whole for their loss
of pay. In specific terms, the Board ordered payment
to the men of a sum equal to what they normally would
have earned from the date of the discrimination to the
time of employment less their earnings during this
period. The court below added a further deduction of
amounts which the workers "failed without excuse to
earn," and the Board here challenges this modification.
Making the workers whole for losses suffered on account of an unfair labor practice is part of the vindication of the public policy which the Board enforces.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Since only actual losses should be made good, it seems
fair that deductions should be made not only for actual
earnings by the worker but also for losses which he willfully incurred. To this the Board counters that to apply
this abstractly just doctrine of mitigation of damages to
the situations before it, often involving substantial numbers of workmen, would put on the Board details too
burdensome for effective administration. Simplicity of
administration is thus the justification for deducting
only actual earnings and for avoiding the domain of controversy as to wages that might have been earned.
But the advantages of a simple rule must be balanced
against the importance of taking fair account, in a civilized
legal system, of every socially desirable factor in the final
judgment. The Board, we believe, overestimates administrative difficulties and underestimates its administrative resourcefulness. Here again we must avoid the
rigidities of an either-or rule. The remedy of back pay,
it must be remembered, is entrusted to the Board's discretion; it is not mechanically compelled by the Act. And
in applying its authority over back pay orders, the Board
has not used stereotyped formulas but has availed itself of
the freedom given it by Congress to attain just results in
diverse, complicated situations. 7 See (1939) 48 Yale L. J.
"In accordance with the Board's general practice, deductions were
made in the present case for amounts earned during the period
of the back pay award. But the deductions have been limited to
earnings during the hours when the worker would have been employed by the employer in question. Matter of Pusey, Maynes &
Breish Co., 1 N. L. R. B. 482; Matter of National Motor Bearing
Co., 5 N. L. R. B. 409. And only "net earnings" are deducted,
allowance being made for the expense of getting new employment
which, but for the discrimination, would not have been necessary.
Matter of Crossett Lumber Co., 8 N. L. R. B. 440.
Even though a strike is caused by an unfair labor practice the
Board does not award back pay during the period of the strike.
Matter of Sunshine Hosiery Mills, 1 N. L. R. B. 664. Employees
who are discriminatorily discharged are treated as strikers if during

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 199
177

Opinion of the Court.

1265. The Board has a wide discretion to keep the present matter within reasonable bounds through flexible procedural devices. The Board will thus have it within its
power to avoid delays and difficulties incident to passing
on remote and speculative claims by employers, while at
the same time it may give appropriate weight to a clearly
a strike they refuse an unconditional offer of reinstatement. Matter
of Harter Corp., 8 N. L. R. B. 391. Originally back pay was ordered
from the date of application for reinstatement, Matter of Sunshine
Hosiery Mills, supra, but later orders have started back pay five
days after application. Matter of Tiny Town Togs, Inc., 7 N. L.
R. B. 54.
If there is unjustified delay in filing charges before the Board, a
deduction is made for the period of the delay. Matter of Inland
Lime & Stone Co., 8 N. L. R. B. 944. Similar action is taken when
a case is reopened after having been closed or withdrawn. Matter
of C. G. Conn, Ltd., 10 N. L. R. B. 498. And if the trial examiner
rules in favor of the employer and the Board reverses the ruling, no
back pay is ordered for the period when the examiner's ruling
stood unreversed. Matter of E. R. Haffelfinger Co., 1 N. L. R. B.
760; and see the order in the present case.
The Board has refused to order any back pay where discriminatory
discharges were made with honest belief that they were required
by an invalid closed-shop contract. Matter of McKesson & Robbins,
Inc., 19 N. L. R. B. 778.
If the business conditions would have caused the plant to be
closed or personnel to be reduced, back pay is awarded only for
the period which the worker would have worked in the absence of
discrimination. Matter of Ray Nichols, Inc., 15 N. L. R. B. 846.
At times fluctuations in personnel so complicate the situation that a
formula has to be devised for the distribution of a lump sum among
the workers who have been discriminated against. Matter of EaglePicher Mining & Smelting Co., 16 N. L. R. B. 727.
The rate of pay used in computing awards is generally that at
the time of discrimination, but adjustments may be made for subsequent changes. Matter of Lone Star Bag & Bagging Co., 8
N. L. R. B. 244; cf. Matter of Acme Air Appliance Co., 10
N. L. R. B. 1385. Normal earnings in tips or bonuses have been
taken into account. Matter of Club Troika, 2 N. L. R. B. 90;
Matter of Central Truck Lines, 3 N. L. R. B. 317.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of Mu'iHY, J.

313 U. S.

unjustifiable refusal to take desirable new employment.
By leaving such an adjustment to the administrative process we have in mind not so much the minimization of
damages as the healthy policy of promoting production
and employment. This consideration in no way weakens
the enforcement of the policies of the Act by exerting
coercion against men who have been unfairly denied employment to take employment elsewhere and later, because of their new employment, declaring them barred
from returning to the jobs of their choice. This is so
because we hold that the power of ordering offers of employment rests with the Board even as to workers who
have obtained equivalent employment.
But though the employer should be allowed to go
to proof on this issue, the Board's order should not
have been modified by the court below. The matter
should have been left to the Board for determination by
it prior to formulating its order and should not be left
for possible final settlement in contempt proceedings.
Sixth. Other minor objections to the Board's order
were found without substance below. After careful consideration we agree with this disposition of these questions, and do not feel that further discussion is
required.
The decree below should be modified in accordance
with this opinion, remanding to the Board the two
matters discussed under Fourth and Fifth herein, for the
Board's determination of these issues.
Modified.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration or disposition of the case.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY:

While I fully approve the disposition of the first three
issues in the opinion just announced, I cannot assent
to the modification of that part of the Board's order

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 201
177

Opinion of

MURPHY,

J.

which required reinstatement of certain employees, or
to the limitation imposed on the Board's power to make
back pay awards.
First. The Board is now directed to reconsider its
order of reinstatement merely because, in the course of
its recital, it stated that even if the employees in question had secured other substantially equivalent employment it would nevertheless order their reinstatement for
the reasons set forth in Matter of Eagle-Picher Mining
& Smelting Co., 16 N. L. R. B. 727.' There is neither
claim nor evidence that reinstatement will not effectuate
the policies of the Act. There is no suggestion that
the order the Board issued was wrong or beyond its
power. That order is challenged only because the statement and reference to the Eagle-Picher case are said to
'The entire paragraph in which this statement appears reads:
"We have found that the respondent has discriminated in regard to
hire and tenure of employment of certain individuals named
above. In accordance with our usual practice we shall order the
reinstatement or the reemployment of such individuals. The respondent contends that the Board lacks power to order the reinstatement of any striker who has obtained other regular and substantially equivalent employment. We have found that none of
the strikers discriminated against has obtained other regular and
substantially equivalent employment within the meaning of the Act.
Nevertheless, even if any striker had obtained such employment,
we would, for the reasons set forth in Matter of Eagle-Picher
Mining & Smelting Co.,

. ..

still order his reinstatement by the

respondent." 19 N. L. R. B. 547, 598.
It is to be noted, of course, that in the Eagle-Picher case the
Board's remarks were made in answer to the argument advanced
here, that § 2 (3) narrows the application of the term "employees"
in § 10 (c).
It is worth noting, too, that in that case the Board stated:
"Further to effectuate the purposes and policies of the Act, and
as a means of removing and avoiding the consequences of the respondents' unfair labor practices, we shall, in aid of our cease and
desist order, order the respondents to take certain affirmative action,
more particularly described below." 16 N. L. R. B. 727, 831.

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of

MURPHY,

J.

313 U. S.

demonstrate that the Board ordered reinstatement
mechanically due to a misconception of its functions
under the statute, and that it did not consider whether
reinstatement would effectuate the policies of the Act.
Even if it be assumed that this recital imports an
inaccurate appraisal of the Board's power, an assumption
which I believe is without justification, modification of
its order is not a necessary consequence. The question
before us is whether the order the Board issued was
within its power. There is no occasion now to determine what disposition should be made of an order which
was not an exercise of the Board's administrative discretion, or to infer that the Board must investigate the
substantial equivalency of other employment before it
may order reinstatement. Suffice to say, the Board
found that certain employees had been the objects of
unfair labor practices and that it would effectuate the
policies of the Act to order their reinstatement. It
expressly rested its order upon those findings.
The circumstances occasioning the latter finding are
convincing evidence that the Board not only was required to but did exercise discretion in the formulation
of its order of reinstatement. Throughout the hearing
the employer's counsel sought to show by cross-examining them that the complaining employees were not entitled to reinstatement. Shortly after that examination
commenced, the trial examiner requested the Board's
attorney to state the theory upon which he contended
that those employees should be reinstated. Considerable testimony was offered to show the working conditions, hours, rates of pay, continuity of operation, etc.,
of mines in which the witnesses had secured other
employment.
All this was in the record certified to the Board. Accompanying it was the contention of the employer that
reinstatement should be denied for various reasons. The

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 203
177

Opinion of

MURPHY, J.

Board explicitly considered the contention, among others,
that reinstatement would provoke further disputes and
discord among the employees rather than promote labor
peace. It also considered the contention that many of
the employees had obtained other substantially equivalent employment, making both general and specific
findings concerning it.2 Finally, it concluded that the
policies of the Act would be effectuated by ordering
the employer to tender reinstatement to designated
employees.
That its order of reinstatement was more than a perfunctory exercise of power is pointedly manifest from
the Board's own statements. Answering the employer's
contention that reinstatement might foster discord
among the employees, the Board declared: "We cannot
but consider the difficulties of adjustment envisaged in
the foregoing testimony [upon which the employer
relied] as conjectural and insubstantial, especially in
view of the lapse of time since the strike. However,
even assuming that the asserted resentment of nonstrikers towards strikers and picketers persists, the
effectuation of the policies of the Act patently requires 8
the restoration of the strikers and picketers to their
status quo before the discrimination against them."
In discussing its proposed order, the Board said: "Having found that the respondent has engaged in unfair
labor practices, we will order it to cease and desist therefrom and to take certain affirmative action designed to
effectuate the policies of the Act' and to restore as nearly
'The Board found that none of the employees had obtained other
substantially equivalent employment. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this finding in part. The reversal is not challenged
here, but that is immaterial since the Court now decides that the
Board has the power to order reinstatement even though the employees have found other substantially equivalent employment, provided that the policies of the Act will be effectuated.
'Emphasis added.
"Emphasis added.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of MURPHY, J.

313 U. S.

as possible the condition which existed prior to the commission of the unfair labor practices."
And in its formal order, the Board stated: "Upon the
basis of the above findings of fact and conclusions of law,
and pursuant to Section 10 (c) of the National Labor Relations Act, the National Labor Relations Board hereby
orders that the respondent, Phelps Dodge Corporation
• . . shall: . . . 2. Take the following affirmative action
which the Board finds will effectuate the policies of the
Act:' (a) Offer to the following persons immediate and
full reinstatement to their former or substantially equivalent positions . . .;(b) Make whole [the following employees] for any loss of pay they may have suffered by
reason of the respondent's discriminatory refusal to reinstate them .. .less the net earning-f each . . ."
The italicized phrases in these quotations were not
chance or formal recitals. They expressed in summary a
considered exercise of administrative discretion. The
Board carefully followed the precise procedure which this
Court says it should have adopted. It found that the
employees in question had been the victims of unfair
labor practices. It also found that the policies of the
Act would be effectuated by ordering their reinstatement.
Since there was evidence to support these findings, it is
difficult to understand what more the Board should or
could have done.
But if we are now to consider in the abstract whether
the Board properly opined that it might have the power
to order reinstatement without regard to the substantial
equivalency of other employment, I am nevertheless unable to approve the modification of its order, or to accept
the inference that the Board must consider the substantial
equivalency of other employment before it may order reinstatement. There is nothing in § 10 (c) or in the Act
'Emphasis added.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 205
177

Opinion of

MURPHY, J.

as a whole which expressly or impliedly obligates the
Board to consider the substantial equivalency of other
employment or to make findings concerning it before it
may order reinstatement. Indeed, such a rule narrows
rather than broadens the administrative discretion which
the Act confers on the Board.
Practical administrative experience may convince the
Board that the self-interest of the employee is a far better
gauge of the substantial equivalency of his other employment than any extended factual inquiry of its own. Conversely, the Board may conclude that the policies of the
Act are best effectuated by an investigation in every case
into the nature of his other employment. That choice
of rules is an exercise of discretion which Congress has
entrusted to the Board. Whichever rule the Board
adopts, it does not follow that reinstatement becomes a
remedy which is granted automatically upon a finding of
unfair labor practices. If for other reasons the Board
finds that the policies of the Act will not be effectuated,
of course it not only could but should decline to order an
offer of reinstatement. Compare Matter of Thompson
Cabinet Co., 11 N. L. R. B. 1106.
Second. As already indicated, I am unable to accept the
limitation now imposed on the Board's power to make
back pay awards. Again the question is simply this: Was
the back pay order within the power of the Board and supported by evidence? What order the Board should have
made or what rule of law it should have followed if some
of the employees had "willfully incurred" losses are questions of importance which we should answer only when
they are presented. They are not here now.
The Board expressly found that the policies of the Act
would be effectuated by ordering the employer to make
whole those employees who had been the victims of discriminatory practices. We are pointed to nothing which
requires a different conclusion. We are not referred to

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of MURPHY, J.

313 U. S.

any employee who "willfully incurred" losses, or to any
evidence in the record compelling us to hold that any of
them did. At most the record shows only that some of
the employees obtained other employment-which was
not substantially equivalent-and then voluntarily relinquished it. For all we know, the Board could have
determined that this evidence did not establish "willfully
incurred" losses. Plainly that was a permissible inference
from the evidence, and, this being so, there is no occasion
now to decide what the Board should have done had it
drawn some other inference.
But again, if we are now to rule on the abstract issue, I
cannot agree that the power to make back pay awards must
be fettered in the manner described in the opinion just
announced. For if the Board has no choice but to accept
the limitation now imposed, its administrative discretion
is curbed by the very decision which purports to leave it
untouched.
It must be conceded that nothing in the Act requires
such a limitation in so many words. To be sure, nothing
in the Act requires a back pay award to be diminished by
the amounts actually earned (compare Republic Steel
Corp. v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 7), but that should admonish us to hesitate before we introduce yet another
modification which Congress has not seen fit to enact, especially when the two situations differ in many respects.
It is not our function to read the Act as we think it should
have been written, or to supplant a rule adopted by the
Board with one which we believe is better. Our only
office is to determine whether the rule chosen, tested in
the light of statutory standards, was within the permissible
range of the Board's discretion.
The Board might properly conclude that the policies
of the Act would best be effectuated by refusing to embark on the inquiry whether the employees had willfully
incurred losses. Administrative difficulties engendered

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 207
177

Opinion of

MURPHY, J.

by a contrary rule would be infinite, particularly as the
number of individuals involved in the dispute increased.
Underlying the contrary rule is the supposition that the
employee would purposely remain idle awaiting his back
pay award. But that attributes to the employee an
omniscience frequently not given to members of the legal
profession. He must be able to determine that the employer actually has committed unfair labor practices;
that the unfair labor practices affect commerce within
the meaning of §§ 2 (6) and 2 (7); that the Board will
take favorable action and make a back pay award; that
the Circuit Court of Appeals will enforce that order in
full; and that this Court finally will affirm if the case
comes here.
This is not all. He must have capital sufficient to
provide for himself and for any dependents while he
awaits the back pay award, even though that may not
come until several years later.' He must risk union
disfavor by dividing his efforts between a labor dispute
and a search for a new job. He must realize, although
his natural suppositions are otherwise, that he will probably not endanger seniority rights or chance of reinstatement by accepting other employment. He must be able
to decide when he has made sufficient efforts to secure
other employment notwithstanding that he is not told
whether he can or must accept any job no matter where
it is or what type of employment, wages, hours, or working conditions.
At his peril he must determine all these things because
conventional common law concepts and doctrines of damages, applicable in suits to enforce purely private rights,
are to be imported into the National Labor Relations
Act.

' The labor dispute which gave rise to this proceeding occurred
in 1935.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion

of

STONE,

J.

313 U. S.

Having these considerations in mind, supplemented
perhaps by others not available or suggested to us, the
Board might well decide that the rule disapproved here
would best effectuate the policies of the Act. I do not
think we should substitute our judgment on this issue
for that of the Board.
Accordingly, I would affirm the order of the Board
in full.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur
in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE STONE:

With two rulings of the Court's opinion the
JUSTICE

CHIEF

and I are unable to agree.

Congress has, we think, by the terms of the Act, excluded from the Board's power to reinstate wrongfully
discharged employees, any authority to reinstate those
who have "obtained any other regular and substantially
equivalent employment." And we are not persuaded
that Congress, by granting to the Board, by § 10 (c) of
the Act, authority "to take such affirmative action, including reinstatement of employees with or without
back pay, as will effectuate the policies of the Act," has
also authorized it to order the employer to hire applicants for work who have never been in his employ or to
compel him to give them "back pay" for any period
whatever.
The authority of the Board to take affirmative action
by way of reinstatement of employees is not to be read
as conferring upon it power to take any measures, however drastic, which it conceives will effectuate the policies of the Act. We have held that the provision is
remedial, not punitive, ConsolidatedEdison Co. v. Labor
Board, 305 U. S. 197, 235, 236; see also Labor Board v.
Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 267, 268,

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 209
Opinion of STONE, J.

177

and that its purpose is to effectuate the policies of the
Act by achieving the "remedial objectives which the Act
sets forth" and "to restore and make whole employees
who have been discharged in violation of the Act." Republic Steel Corp. v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 7, 12. The
Act itself has emphasized this purpose when, in including in the category of "employees" those who might not
otherwise have been so included, it provided, § 2 (3),
that the term "employee" "shall include any individual
whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with, any current labor dispute or because of any
unfair labor practice, and who has not obtained any
other regular and substantially equivalent employment."
While the stated policy of a statute is an important
factor in interpreting its command, we cannot ignore the
words of the command in ascertaining its policy. In
enlarging the category of "employees" to include wrongfully discharged employees and at the same time excluding from it those who have obtained "other regular and
substantially equivalent employment," the Congress
adopted a policy which it may well have thought would
further the cause of industrial peace quite as much as
the enforced employment of discharged employees where
there was no occasion to compensate them for the loss
of their employment. It is the policy of the Act and
not the Board's policy which is to be effectuated, and in
the face of so explicit a restriction of the definition of discharged employees to those who have not procured equivalent employment, we can only conclude that Congress
has adopted the policy of restricting the authorized
"reinstatement of employees" to that class.
Even if we read the language of § 2 (3) distributively,
it seems difficult to say that the specially granted power
to reinstate employees extends to those who, by definition, are not employees, and this is the more so when the
effect of the definition is consonant with what appears
°

326252 -41-141

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of

STONE,

J.

313 U. S.

to be the declared purpose of the reinstatement provision.
Nor can it fairly be said that the definition of employees
is of significance only for the purpose of determining the
appropriate bargaining agency of the employees. There
is no evidence in the statute itself, or to be derived from
its legislative history, that the definition was not to be
applied in the one case quite as much as in the other.
Certainly the fact of substantially equivalent employment has as much bearing upon making the discharged
employee whole as upon his right to participate in the
choice of a bargaining representative, and no ground has
been advanced for saying that it applies to one and not
the other.
As a majority of the Court is of opinion that the Board
does possess the power to order reinstatement even
though the discharged employees had obtained other
equivalent employment, we agree that the case should
now be remanded to the Board for a determination of
the question whether reinstatement here would further
the policies of the Act.
We agree that petitioner's refusal to hire two applicants for jobs, because of their union membership, was
an unfair labor practice within the meaning of § 8 (3)
of the Act, even though they had never been employees
of the petitioner, and that under § 9 (c) the Board was
authorized to order petitioner to cease and desist from
the practice and to take appropriate proceedings under
§ 10 to enforce its order. But it is quite another matter
to say that Congress has also authorized the Board to
order the employer to hire applicants for work who have
never been in his employ and to compel him to give
them "back pay."
The Congressional debates and committee reports give
no hint that, in enacting the National Labor Relations
Act, Congress or any member of it thought it was giving
the Board a remedial power which few courts had ever

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD. 211
177

Opinion of

STONE, J.

assumed to exercise or had been thought to possess, and
we are unable to say that the words of the statute go
so far. The authority given to the Board by § 10 (c)
is, as we have said, not an unrestricted power, and the
grant is not to be read as though the words "including
reinstatement of employees with or without back pay"
were no part of the statute. None of the words of a
statute are to be disregarded and it cannot be assumed
that the introduction of the phrase in this one was
without a purpose.
Undoubtedly, the word "including" may preface an
illustrative example of a general power already granted,
Helvering v. Morgan's,Inc., 293 U. S. 121, 125, or it may
serve to define that power or even enlarge it. Cf. Montello Salt Co. v. Utah, 221 U. S. 452, 462, et seq. Whether
it is the one or another must be determined by the purpose of the Act, to be ascertained in the light of the context, the legislative history, and the subject matter to
which the statute is to be applied.
In view of the traditional reluctance of courts to
compel the performance of personal service contracts, it
seems at least doubtful whether an authority to the
Board to take affirmative action could, without more,
fairly be construed as permitting it to take a kind of
affirmative action which had very generally been thought
to be beyond the power of courts. This is the more so
because the Board's orders were by § 10 (c) made subject to review and modification of the courts without any
specified restriction upon the exercise of that authority.
It is true that in Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway
Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, this Court had held that upon
contempt proceedings for violation of a decree enjoining coercive measures by the employer against his union
employees, a court could properly direct that the contempt be purged on condition that the employer restore
the status quo. But Congress in enacting the National

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

313 U. S.

Labor Relations Act took a step further by providing
that the Board could order reinstatement of employees
even though there had been no violation of any previous
order of the Board or of a court. It thus removed the
doubt which would otherwise have arisen by defining
and, as we think, enlarging the Board's authority to take
affirmative action so as to include the power to order
"reinstatement" of employees. But an authority to
order reinstatement is not an authority to compel the
employer to instate as his employees those whom he
has never employed, and an authority to award "back
pay" to reinstated employees is not an authority to
compel payment of wages to applicants for employment
whom the employer was never bound to hire.
Authority for so unprecedented an exercise of power
is not lightly to be inferred. In view of the use of the
phrase "including reinstatement of employees," as a
definition and enlargement, as we think it is, of the
authority of the Board to take affirmative action, we
cannot infer from it a Congressional purpose to authorize
the Board to order compulsory employment and wage
payments not embraced in its terms.
CONTINENTAL OIL CO. v. NATIONAL
RELATIONS BOARD.

LABOR

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 413. Argued March 11, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
Decided upon the authority of No. 387, Phelps Dodge Corp. v. NationalLabor Relations Board, ante, p. 177. P. 214.
113 F. 2d 473, modified and remanded.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 637, to review in part a judg-

ment sustaining in part an order of the National Labor
Relations Board, 12 N. L. R. B. 789.

