HELVERING v. CAMPBELL.
11

Syllabus.

§ 113 the basis to the trustees was the same as the basis
to the taxpayer. Hence the period of their holding is
not to be excluded from the period of the taxpayer's
holding. That makes plain that "property held by the
taxpayer" as used in § 101 (c) (8) embraces not only full
ownership but also any interest whether vested, contingent, or conditional. Otherwise the period of the holding by trustees would not be included in the holding
by a mere remainderman. Hence, as in McFeely v. Commissioner, supra, we look to the time when the taxpayer
first acquired the interest which later ripened into full
ownership. It is plain that for property owned by the
decedent he acquired that interest at her death and that
for property purchased by the trustees he acquired that
interest at the date of purchase.
Reversed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

think

the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons stated
by the court below, 112 F. 2d 530.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. CAMPBELL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 473.

Argued March 6, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. Under § 113 (a) (5) of the Revenue Acts of 1928 and 1932, the
basis for ascertaining gain or loss from the sale of property which
had been delivered to the taxpayer by testamentary trustees is, in
respect to securities owned by the decedent at death and securities
*Together with No. 474, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Knox, and No. 475, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Rogers, also on writs of certiorari, 311 U. S. 639, to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

purchased by the executors, their value when delivered by the executors to the trustees; and, in respect to securities purchased by the
trustees, their cost to the trustees. P. 19.
2. For the purpose of determining whether property delivered to a
taxpayer by testamentary trustees was "capital assets" within the
capital gains and losses provisions of the Revenue Act of 1928, the
period for which the taxpayer has "held" property which had been
purchased by the trustees dates from the time of such purchase.
P. 20.
3. As between stock which was delivered to the taxpayer by testamentary trustees, and stock which was purchased by the taxpayer prior
to such delivery but subsequently to the creation of the trust, the
former is regarded as having been acquired earlier, under the "first
in, first out" rule of Treasury Regulations. P. 20.
4. The ascertainment of gain or loss from the sale of property acquired
by bequest, devise, or inheritance, may properly be based upon vaie
as of the time when the taxpayer first acquired an interest in the
property, though contingent or conditional. Revenue Acts of 1928
and 1932. P. 21.
112 F. 2d 530, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 639, to review the affirmance of
decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals (No. 473, 39
B. T. A. 916) in favor of the taxpayers.

Miss Helen R. Carloss argued the cause, and Solicitor

General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Thomas E. Harris, and Arthur A.

Armstrong were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ralph M. Andrews, with whom Messrs. Daniel J.

Kenefick and John L. Kenefick were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JusTrCE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The questions presented by these cases are in part related to and in part the same as those involved in Maguire v. Commissioner,ante, p. 1, and Helvering v. Gambrill, ante, p. 11.

HELVERING v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

15

The father of these respondents died in 1915. By his
will it was provided that his residuary estate should be
divided into four parts. One part was devised and bequeathed to trustees: "To receive, hold and, from time
to time, invest and reinvest the same, and to collect the
rents, income, issues, and profits on the property from
time to time constituting such trust fund and to pay over
so much of the net income arising therefrom, as to my
said trustees shall seem wise and proper toward the support, maintenance, and education of my daughter, Marjorie Knox, until she shall arrive at the age of twentyone (21) years, and to accumulate the balance of the income during her minority for her benefit, and to pay
over the accumulated income to her when she shall arrive at the age of twenty-one (21) years and thereafter
to pay over the entire net income to my said daughter,
Marjorie Knox, until she shall arrive at the age of
twenty-eight (28) years, at which time, I give, devise,
and bequeath to my said daughter, Marjorie Knox, onehalf (/2) of the property then constituting said trust
fund and I direct my said trustees to pay over the net
income on the remaining one-half ( ) of said trust
fund until she shall arrive at the age of thirty-five (35)
years, at which time I give, devise, and bequeath the
remaining part of said trust fund to my said daughter,
Marjorie Knox, and to her heirs and assigns forever. In
the event that my said daughter, Marjorie Knox, shall
die before reaching the age of thirty-five (35) years, I
give, devise, and bequeath any part or portion of said
trust fund, which has not then been paid over to her, or
to the possession of which at the time of her death she
was not entitled, unto the issue of said Marjorie Knox,
if any, surviving her, to be divided among them, share
and share alike. And in case there be no issue her surviving, then I give, devise, and bequeath said trust fund
unto her heirs."
:326252o-.41-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Marjorie Knox is respondent Marjorie K. Campbell.
Another part of the residuary estate was placed in trust
for respondent Dorothy K. G. Rogers, under the same
terms. And a third part together with certain securities
was placed in trust for respondent Seymour H. Knox,
under similar terms. He, however, was to receive $500,000 of the trust fund when he reached the age of twentyfive, one-half of the remaining trust fund when he became thirty, and the balance at thirty-five. Meanwhile,
the income was payable to him. On July 1, 1921, the
executors, pursuant to an order of the probate court,
transferred the property to the trustees.
Marjorie K. Campbell attained the age of twenty-eight
on July 10, 1928, and received at that time one-half of
the property of her trust. Certain of the securities
which she then received were sold by her during 1933
and certain of the bonds matured and were paid during
1933. Some of those securities had been held by her
father at his death, others had been purchased by the
executors, and some had been purchased by the trustees.
In 1926 and 1927 she purchased stock of the F. W. Woolworth Co., which with dividends received in 1927
amounted to 1000 shares. In 1928 she received delivery
from the trustees of 15,000 shares of Woolworth stock
which represented shares owned by her father at his
death, a subsequent tax-free stock split-up, stock dividends, and purchases by the trustees. In 1929 she surrendered the 16,000 shares she owned and received tax
free 40,000 shares pursuant to a split-up of the stock.
In 1933 she sold 10,000 of the shares received in 1929.
There is no way of identifying the shares sold with any
particular shares surrendered in 1929.
Dorothy K. G. Rogers became twenty-eight on August
26, 1924, and thirty-five on August 26, 1931, at which
times she received distributions of the corpus. During

HELVERING v. CAMPBELL.
15

Opinion of the Court.

1933 she sold securities so received. Some of those securities had been purchased by the trustees, some by the
executors, and others had been owned by her father at
his death.
Seymour H. Knox attained the age of thirty on September 1, 1928, and received on that date one-half of
the corpus, including 8,575 shares of stock of Maine
Share Corp., of which 5,160 were purchased by the trustees on August 31, 1927, and 3,415 were purchased by
the trustees on August 30, 1928. He later exchanged
those shares in a non-taxable transaction and on June 10,
1930, sold the shares received in that exchange.
The Board of Tax Appeals' and the Circuit Court of
Appeals (112 F. 2d 530) held: (1) that the basis to
respondents under § 113 (a) (5) of the Revenue Acts of
1928 and 1932 2 as respects sales made by them was the
fair market value at the time when the securities were
delivered to them by the trustees, no matter when or
how the trustees or the executors may have obtained the
securities; (2) that in determining how long respondent
Knox held securities for purposes of computing the term
of his holding under § 101 of the Revenue Act of 1928,
the date of transfer from the trustees should govern; and
(3) that as respects the sale of Woolworth stock by respondent Campbell, her own shares should be treated,
under the "first-in-first-out" rule, as sold prior to those
which were delivered to her by the trustees.
It follows from our holding in Maguire v. Commissioner, supra, that the rulings on the first issue were
erroneous. As respects the securities owned by the decedent at death, the basis is their value when delivered
'The opinion of the Board in Helvering v. Campbell is reported in
39 B. T. A. 916; its opinions in the other two cases are unreported.
'See. 113 (a) (5) of the 1932 Act (47 Stat. 169, 199) was the
same as § 113 (a) (5) of the 1928 Act (45 Stat. 791, 819).

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

by the executors to the trustees. As respects the securities purchased by the trustees, the basis is cost to the
trustees. And we are of the view that as respects securities purchased by the executors the basis is the value
when delivered by them to the trustees. As we said in
Maguire v. Commissioner,supra, the legislative history of
§ 113 (a) (5) clearly indicates that it applies to purchases
by executors. Hence it follows from our reasoning in Maguire v. Commissioner, supra, that the date of delivery
by the trustees to the beneficiaries is no more appropriate
here than it is in case of property owned by the decedent
at date of death.
We also disagree with the court below on the second
issue. Some of the securities were sold by respondent
Knox more than two years after they had been purchased
by the trustees. For the reasons stated in Helvering v.
Gambrill, supra, it follows, therefore, that they had been
"held" by him for more than two years within the meaning of § 101 (c) (8).
We also take a different view on the third proposition.
The "first-in-first-out" rule is reflected in Treasury Regulations. The general rule 4 is that where shares of stock
cannot be identified with any particular lots purchased,
On this phase of the cases no question is presented as to securities
purchased by executors.
'Art. 58, Treas. Reg. 77, promulgated under the 1932 Act provides:
"Sale of stock and rights.-When shares of stock in a corporation
are sold from .lots purchased at different dates or at different prices
and the identity of the lots cannot be determined, the stock sold
shall be charged against the earliest purchases of such stock. In
the determination of the earliest purchases of stock the rules prescribed in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) of section 101 (c)
(8) (relating to the period for which property has been held) shall
be applied. .. ."
And see Art. 600 (4) dealing with stock or securities distributed in
reorganization.

HELVERING v. CAMPBELL.
15

Opinion of the Court.

they will be charged against the earliest purchases.5 For
the purpose of determining the earliest purchases the
regulation ' adopts the rule of tacking contained in § 101
(c) (8) (B). That being true, it must be presumed that
the Woolworth stock coming from the decedent's estate
was first sold. The holding by the trustees is included
in that of the beneficiary. Hence, as we indicated in
Helvering v. Gambrill, supra, the date of acquisition by
the beneficiary was the date of death. It is that date
of acquisition which governs the application of the "firstin-first-out" rule. Therefore, the court below was in
error in ruling that respondent Campbell's own shares
were sold first.
Respondents have contended, at least in regard to some
of these issues, that the nature of their remainder interests necessitates a different result. Thus, in case of respondent Knox it is strongly urged that in view of the
conditional nature of his remainder interest he held the
securities only from the date when his interest became
indefeasible and the securities were distributed to him,
since one cannot be deemed to have held or acquired
property which he might never obtain. But unlike the
situation in Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, we are
not concerned here with the question as to when the
transfers took effect for purposes of the estate tax. As
we indicated in Maguire v. Commissioner, supra, we are
'The regulations refer only to "purchases." But no question has
been raised as to their application to shares acquired under a will.
In fact, the Board of Tax Appeals stated (39 B. T. A. 916, 919)
that the "parties are in agreement that the first in, first out rule
must be applied, since the shares which the petitioner sold can not
be identified as those purchased at any particular time." Furthermore, respondent concedes here that the rule should not be limited
to securities which have been bought as distinguished from those
which have been otherwise obtained.
'Art. 58, supra note 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

dealing only with a point of reference and a standard of
value for determination of gains or losses realized on
subsequent sales of property acquired by bequest, devise,
or inheritance. For that purpose distinctions between
vested and contingent remainders or between absolute and
conditional property interests have no relevancy. Each
remainderman, has become the taxpayer because he has
obtained possession and control of the property and has
sold it. While the property is held in trust, the vested
remainderman has no more rights of possession and control than the contingent remainderman. Yet each has
acquired a property interest. The statutory provisions
here in question come into play when that interest later
ripens into full ownership and a sale is made. Hence
the value of the property at the time when the taxpayer
first acquires an interest in it has relevance to a subsequent determination of the gains or losses. As we remarked in Maguire v. Commissioner, supra, the residuary
legatee in Brewster v. Gage, 280 U. S. 327, was held to
have acquired his interest at date of death though at
that time it was not absolute. To be sure, in these cases
the interest of the remaindermen in the property at the
earlier time was limited by the very terms of the bequest.
But the tax here in question is not on their remainder
interests; it is on gains realized by them as owners of
that property. Hence, to carry into that computation
the earlier value of the property is not to tax them on
values which they never received. It merely provides
a rule of thumb in alleviation of a tax which would be
computed by reference to the entire amount of the original inheritance were it to be based on cost to the taxpayer.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS think the
judgments should be affirmed for the reasons stated by
the court below, 112 F. 2d 530.

