WATSON v. BUCK.
Syllabus.

WATSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF FLORIDA,
AL. v. BUCK ET AL.*

ET

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 610. Argued April 29, 30, 1941.-Decided May 26, 1941.
1. A federal court, upon finding unconstitutional some parts of a state
statute embracing many provisions, is not justified in declaring it
void in toto, upon the ground that the legislature intended to form
a harmonious whole, where parts whose validity standing alone was
not passed upon are complete in themselves and where the statute
declares that the invalidity of any part shall not affect the others.
P. 395.
2. Criminal proceedings to enforce a state statute, even though it
be unconstitutional, are not to be enjoined by a federal court in
the absence of a definite threat of prosecution and of a clear showing
of great and immediate danger of irreparable loss. P. 400.
3. As a rule, the constitutionality of state statutes containing many
separate and distinct provisions, which have not been passed upon
by the supreme court of the State, should be determined as bases
arise from specific applications of the statute, and preferably by
the state courts. P. 401.
4. The copyright laws do not grant to copyright owners the privilege
of combining in violation of otherwise valid state laws. P. 404.
5. Section 1 of the Florida Laws of 1937, c. 17807, which defines as an
unlawful combination an aggregation of authors, composers, publishers, and owners of copyrighted vocal or instrumental musical
compositions who form any society, association, or the like, and the
members of which constitute a substantial number of the persons,
firms or corporations within the United States who own or control
such musical compositions, "when one of the objects of such combination is the determination and fixation of license fees or other
exactions required by such combination for itself or its members
or other interested parties," and which makes it an offense for
such combinations to act within the State in violation of the terms
*Together with No. 611, Buck et al. v. Watson, Attorney General
of Florida, et al., also on appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Florida.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Buck et al.

313 U. S.

of the statute, does not contravene the copyright laws or the Federal
Constitution. P. 404.
34 F. Supp. 510, reversed in part; affirmed in part.
APPEAL and cross-appeal from a decree of the District
Court, constituted of three judges, which enjoined the
prosecuting officers of the State of Florida from enforcing
a Florida statute of 1937 defining and forbidding unlawful
combinations of authors, composers, publishers, and owners of copyrighted vocal or instrumental musical compositions, etc., and which granted the injunction also, but
only as to certain sections, against enforcement of an
act on the same subject passed in 1939. The case was
considered by this Court in earlier aspects in Gibbs v.
Buck, 307 U. S. 66. Attorney General Watson was substituted for his predecessor Mr. Gibbs.
Messrs. Thomas G. Haight and Frank J. Wideman,
With whom Messrs. Louis D. Frohlich, Herman Finkelstein, and Manley P. Caldwell were on the brief, for
appellees in No. 610 and appellants in No. 611.
Organization of the Society was necessary to meet the
evil of wholesale infringement of copyrighted musical
works by unauthorized public performances for profit.
The nature of the right of "public performance for profit"
requires collective action on the part of creators and publishers.
Co6perative licensing is necessary because of divided
and diverse ownership of performing rights. The blanket
license is the only feasible method of licensing the "small
right." It is impossible to assign in advance a separate
price for each performance of specified compositions; nor
is it possible to bargain separately for each use. The
blanket license overcomes these obstacles. It enables the
Society to issue licenses at a very low cost to the user.
The Society controls only a small part of available
music.

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

Argument for Buck et al.

The statutes violate the copyright clause of the Federal Constitution. (1) They invade a field delegated to
Congress, nullifying the most vital provisions of the 1909
revision of the copyright laws, and confiscating plaintiffs'
right of public performance for profit by barring them
from licensing their copyrighted musical compositions in
the only manner that is commercially feasible; and (2)
they discriminate against owners of copyrighted works.
The 1937 Act contains no legislative finding as to any
existing evil requiring its passage. Nor was any established at the trial. The court below found that the Act
was not a reasonable exercise of the police power of the
State and that its true purpose was to deprive plaintiffs
of their copyrighted compositions for the private benefit
of 410 commercial users in Florida.
The 1939 Act does not purport to regulate or penalize combinations in restraint of trade. It requires virtual
duplication of all data filed with the Register of Copyrights under the Act of 1909 for the alleged purpose of
enabling Florida users to avoid innocent infringement.
It bars two or more copyright owners from issuing blanket
licenses in Florida unless they give all users in the State
an option to have a license to perform each separate
composition at a price fixed independently in advance
by each owner for each user in the State, and stated in
a schedule filed at least seven days prior to the issuance
of the license if the price charged is to differ from any
price previously scheduled. Whether a blanket license
or any other form of license is issued by a single person
or by many, the license fee must not be based in whole
or in part upon a program not using such composition.
In other words, the license fee must be computed solely
upon the value of the composition in the particular program even though it may be established that the use of
the composition in the particular program enhances the
value of the preceding and succeeding programs which do

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument four Buck et al.

313 U. S.

not actually employ the licensed composition. A tax of
three per cent. is imposed on gross license fees collected.
The action of Congress in fully covering the field in the

1909 revision of the Copyright Act bars the States from
making any regulations in that field. H. R. Rept. No.
2222, 60th Cong., 2d Sess., 1909; Napier v. Atlantic Coast
Line Ry. Co., 272 U. S. 605; Jennings v. U. S. Fidelity &
Guaranty Co., 294 U. S. 216, 226.
All rights granted under the 1909 Copyright Law were
expressly made exclusive (§ 1). This Court had many
times previously passed upon the exclusive nature of those
rights. Burrows-Giles LithographCo. v. Sarony, 111 U. S.
53, 56, 59; American Tobacco Co. v. Werckmeister, 207
U. S. 284, 291; Caligav. Inter Ocean Newspaper Co., 215
U. S. 182, 188.
Not even the United States may invade the exclusive
rights of owners of copyrights or patents. United States
v. Dubilier Condenser Corp., 289 U. S. 178, 186, 189.;
James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356, 358; United States v.
Bell Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 249-50.
Copyright owners cannot be compelled to grant licenses
except upon their own terms and at prices fixed by such
owners. F. A. D. Andrea, Inc. v. Radio Corp., 88 F. 2d
474; Buck v. Hillsgrove Country Club, Inc., 17 F. Supp.
643. The several States may not pass laws to the contrary. Henry Bill Pub. Co. v. Smythe, 27 F. 914, 917.
The exclusive performing rights (§ 1 (e) of the Act) include performances by live musicians in hotels, restaurants
and night clubs (Herbert v. Shanley, 242 U. S. 591);
performances by means of radio broadcasting or rebroadcasting (Buck v. Jewell-LaSalleRealty Co., 283 U. S. 191);
and by means of radio receiving sets in hotel rooms operated from a master-controlled set. Society of European
Authors v. New York StatlerHotel, Inc., 19 F. Supp. 1.
The Copyright Law permits a purchaser of a phonograph record or electrical transcription to perform it pri-

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

Argument for Buck et al.

vately, but he may not perform it publicly for profit without the express consent of the copyright owner. Irving
Berlin, Inc. v. Daigle, 31 F. 2d 832; Lutz v. Buck, 40 F. 2d
501.
The state statutes confiscate plaintiffs' right of public
performance for profit; abridge and regulate rights granted
them under the Copyright Act and bar them from separately licensing the several rights granted to them by Congress; discriminate against owners of copyrighted musical
works by failing to include, and thereby exempting, owners
of musical works protected under the common law.
The penalties and forfeitures imposed for violation are
far more severe than those imposed under other Florida
laws on combinations actually monopolizing or restraining
trade.
The state statutes discriminate against copyright owners by denying them the right to show the reasonableness
of their Association and the fact that they do not actually
monopolize or restrain trade.
The statutes fall squarely within the condemnation of
McFarlandv. American Sugar Refining Co., 241 U. S. 79,
by creating arbitrary presumptions making plaintiffs prima
facie guilty. Morrison v. California,291 U. S. 82, 90.
Both the 1937 and 1939 Acts discriminate in favor of
those who have not copyrighted their compositions pursuant to the statute of 1909, but rely upon their common
law right, as against those who have availed themselves
of the 1909 Act.
The 1937 Act discriminates in favor of copyright owners residing outside of the United States, as against those
who reside within the United States.
The statutes discriminate between owners of copyrighted musical compositions and other copyright owners.
The legislature may not, under the guise of protecting
the public interests, arbitrarily interfere with private business, or impose unusual and unnecessary restrictions upon
lawful occupations. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Watson et al.

313 U. S.

National and state anti-trust laws are designed to regulate marketing, and may not be used as a screen to destroy
it. Such laws are necessarily based upon the assumption
that there is a right way and a wrong way of marketing
property. There is only one way by which the owners of
copyrighted musical compositions may obtain revenue
for the public performance for profit of such compositions, and that way is by collective action. Without such
collective action the exclusive right of public performance
for profit becomes unenforceable.
The statutes impair obligations under existing contracts.
The statutes violate the Fourteenth Amendment by
interfering with plaintiffs' right to do business outside
of the State, and interfere with interstate commerce by
requiring prices to be fixed on sheets of music and phonograph records coming from outside of the State and prescribing the uses that can be made of such compositions
and records, as well as by the provisions respecting broadcasting.
The Society is not an unlawful combination in restraint
of trade; but even if it were, the State may not deprive
the members of the rights secured to them by their copyrights, and a court of equity may not deny them the means
of protecting those rights.
The statutes must fall as a whole, and their various
sections can not be separated. Carter v. Carter Coal Co.,
298 U. S. 238, 316; Williams v. StandardOil Co., 278 U. S.
235, 243; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295
U. S. 330,362; McFarlandv. American Sugar Refining Co.,
241 U. S. 79, 87.
Messrs. Lucien H. Boggs and Tyrus A. Norwood, Assistant Attorney General of Florida, with whom Messrs J.
Tom Watson, Attorney General, and Andrew W. Bennett
were on the brief, for appellants in No. 610 and appellees
in No. 611.

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

Argument for Watson et al.

The plaintiffs came into court with "unclean hands,"
seeking aid in perpetuating their monopolistic activities.
Injunctive relief should not have been granted.
The provisions of the 1937 Act were severable, and the
court should not have struck down the whole merely because it found certain sections void.
The 1937 statute is a valid exercise of the police power
of the State in the prevention of monopoly and restraint
of trade.
Neither the Federal Constitution nor Congress has bestowed upon the holders of copyrights any right to combine
for price-fixing purposes.
Where Congress, in exercising a constitutional power,
has not shown an intention to cover the field completely,
a State is free to act. Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S.
118, 122; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533; M., K. & T.
Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 623.
A State may enact reasonable regulations affecting commercial dealings in patents and copyrights within its
borders. Allen v. Riley, 203 U. S. 347; Albright v. Teas,
106 U. S. 613; Pattersonv. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501; John
Woods & Sons v. Carl, 203 U. S. 358; Ozan Lumber Co. v.
Union County Nat. Bank, 207 U. S. 251; Carbice Corp. v.
American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Fox Film Corp. v.
Doyal, 286 U. S. 123.
Patents and copyrights are no more immune from antimonopoly legislation than other kinds of property.
Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S.
20, 49; Straus v. American Publishers Assn., 231 U. S.
222, 234, 235; Virtue v. Creamery Package Mfg. Co., 227
U. S. 8, 32; United Shoe Machinery Co. v. United States,
258 U. S. 451; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
163, 174; Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306 U. S.
208; National HarrowCo. v. Hench, 83 F. 36, 38.
Section 4-A of the 1939 Act constitutes a valid regulation of price-fixing combinations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Section 4-C is not invalid because it limits compensation for licensing the use of musical copyrights to programs
actually using the licensed music.
The public entertainment business is affected with a
public interest. Motion PicturePatents Co. v. Universal
Film Co., 243 U. S. 502, 517.
The right to charge for use of a copyright or patent does
not embrace a right to compensation for the use of other
than the protected work or invention. Ethyl Gasoline
Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 456.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In broad outline, these cases involve the constitutionality of Florida statutes regulating the business of persons holding music copyrights and declaring price-fixing
combinations of "authors, composers, publishers, [and]
owners" of such copyrights to be illegal and in restraint
of trade.
The American Society of Composers, Authors and
Publishers (ASCAP), one of the appellants in No. 611
and one of the appellees in No. 610, is a combination
which controls the performance rights of a major part
of the available supply of copyrighted popular music.
The other appellants in No. 611 (appellees in No. 610)
are individual composers, authors and publishers of
music controlled by ASCAP. The appellees in No. 611
(appellants in No. 610) are the Attorney General and
all the state prosecuting attorneys of Florida, who are
charged with the duty of enforcing certain parts of the
statutes in question.
These two cases were originally a single action, in
which ASCAP and its co-parties sought to enjoin the
state officials from enforcing a 1937 Florida statute.1 A
'Fla. Laws 1937, ch. 17807.

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

Opinion of the Court.

federal district court, composed of three judges under § 266
of the Judicial Code, granted a temporary injunction,
and this Court affirmed without passing upon the merits
of the constitutional questions involved. Gibbs v. Buck,
307 U. S. 66. A supplemental bill of complaint was then
filed, asking that the three-judge court enjoin a 1939
Florida statute relating to the same subject.2 On final
hearing, the three-judge court again enjoined the state
officials from enforcing any part of the 1937 statute, but
granted the injunction only as to certain sections of the
1939 act. 34 F. Supp. 510. No. 611 is an appeal by
ASCAP and its co-complainants from the refusal to enjoin the state officials from enforcing the remainder of
the 1939 act. No. 610 is an appeal by the state officials
from the order granting the injunction as to the 1937 act
and as to certain sections of the 1939 act.
The court below, without passing at all upon the validity of thirteen out of the twenty-one sections and subsections of the 1937 act, held that the remaining eight
sections deprived copyright owners of rights granted
them by the federal copyright laws, and that the statute
must fall in its entirety. This it did upon the premise
that the sections held invalid and the other parts of the
bill were intended by the Florida legislature to form "a
harmonious whole" and to "stand or fall together." The
ultimate questions involved are such that we must first
determine whether this ruling was correct. We hold that
it was not, for the following reasons.
The Florida legislature expressed a purpose directly
contrary to the District Court's finding. For what the
legislature intended in this regard was spelled out in § 12
of the Act in the clear and emphatic language of the
legislature itself. That section reads:
"If any section, sub-section, sentence, clause or any
part of this Act, is for any reason, held or declared. to be
'Fla. Laws 1939, ch. 19653.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

unconstitutional, imperative [sic] or void, such holding
or invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions of
this Act; and it shall be construed to have been the legislative intent to pass this Act without such unconstitutional, inoperative or invalid part therein; and, the
remainder of this Act, after the exclusion of such part
or parts, shall be held and deemed to be valid as if such
excluded parts had not been included herein."
This is a flat statement that the Florida legislature intended that the act should stand and be enforced "after
the exclusion of such part or parts" as might be held invalid. Unless a controlling decision by Florida's courts
compels a different course, the federal courts are not
justified in speculating that the state legislature meant
exactly the opposite of what it declared "to have been
the legislative intent." But the Supreme Court of
Florida recognizes and seeks to carry out the legislative
intent thus expressed. Speaking of a similar severability clause of another statute, that court said: "The Act
as a whole evinces a purpose on the part of the Legislature to impose a license tax on chain stores and Section
fifteen provides that if any section, provision or clause
thereof, or if the Act as applied to any circumstance,
shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional such invalidity shall not affect other portions of the Act held valid
nor shall it extend to other circumstances not held to be
invalid. Under the liberal terms of Section fifteen it
may be reasonably discerned that the Legislature intended that the Act under review should be held good
under any eventuality that did not produce an unreasonable, unconstitutional or an absurd result. . . . The
test to determine workability after severance and
whether the remainder of the Act should be upheld rests
on the fact of whether or not the invalid portion is of
such import that the valid part would be incomplete or
would cause results not contemplated by the Legisla-

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

397

Opinion of the Court.

ture." Louis K. Liggett Co. v. Lee, 109 Fla. 477, 481;
147 So. 463; 149 So. 8. Measured by this test the court
below was in error, for there can be no doubt that § 1
and the other sections upon which the court failed to
pass are complete in themselves; they are not only consistent with the statute's purpose but are in reality the
very heart of the act, comprising a distinct legislative
plan for the suppression of combinations declared to be
unlawful. For, as pointed out by the court below, the
sections that were not passed on are those which outlaw
combinations to fix fees and prescribe the means whereby
the legislative proscription against them can be made
effective. Since, therefore, that phase of the act which
aimed at unlawful combinations is complete in itself
and capable of standing alone, we must consider it as a
separable phase of the statute in determining whether
the injunction was properly issued against the state
officials.
As a matter of fact, as the record stands, the right of
ASCAP and its co-complainants to an injunction depends
upon this phase of the statute and is not to be determined at all by the validity or invalidity of the particular sections which the court below thought inconsistent
with the Federal Constitution and the copyright laws
passed pursuant to it. The ultimate determinative
question, therefore, is whether Florida has the power it
The Court said:
"There remain: Sections 1, 2-C and 3, in effect declaring ASCAP
and similar societies illegal associations, outlawing its arrangements

for license fees, and proscribing and making an offense, attempts to
collect them; Section 7-B making persons, acting for such a combination, agents for it and liable to the penalties of the Act; Section 8 fixing the penalties; Section 9 giving the state courts jurisdiction to enforce the Act, civilly and criminally; and Sections 10-A,
10-B, 11-A and 11-B, prescribing procedure under it." 34 F. Supp.
516. With the possible exception of § 3, nowhere in the course of
the opinion were any of these sections held invalid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

exercised to outlaw activities within the state of pricefixing combinations composed of copyright owners. But
before considering that question, it is necessary that we
explain why we do not discuss, and why an injunction
could not rest upon, any other phase of Florida's statutory plan.
Defendants in the injunction proceedings are the
state's Attorney General, who is charged with the responsibility of enforcing the state's criminal laws, and all
of the state's prosecuting attorneys, who are subject to
the Attorney General's authority in the performance of
their official duties." Under the statutes before us, it is
made the duty of the state's prosecuting attorneys, acting under the Attorney General's direction, to institute
in the state courts criminal or civil proceedings. The
original bill alleged that the defendants had threatened
to-and would, unless restrained-enforce the 1937 statute "in each and all of its terms and the whole thereof,
and particularly against these complainants and others
similarly situated . . .," and that as a consequence complainants would suffer irreparable injury and damages.
The supplemental bill contained similar allegations as
to the 1939 act. Both bills were drawn upon the premise
that complainants were- entitled to an injunction restraining all the state's prosecuting officers from enforc"The Secretary of State and the State Comptroller were added as
parties defendant by a "Further Supplemental Bill of Complaint"
filed October 19, 1939. The ground given by the complainants for
adding parties was that certain duties were imposed on these officials by the 1939 act. The duties, however, required only that certain fees be collected, and not that actions be brought to enforce
the law.
In the course of this litigation, Florida has had three Attorneys
General. The present Attorney General took office on January 7,
1941, and all the parties have joined in a motion to substitute him
as a defendant in place of his predecessor in office. There is no objection to the substitution, and the motion is granted.

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

399

Opinion of the Court.

ing any single part of either of the lengthy statutes, under any circumstances that could arise and in respect
to each and every one of the multitudinous regulations
and prohibitions contained in those laws. In their answers, the state's representatives specifically denied that
they had made any threats whatever to enforce the acts
against complainants or any one else. In their answer to
the supplemental bill, however, they said that they would
perform all duties imposed upon them by the 1939 act.
The findings of the court on this subject were general,
and were to the effect that "Defendants have threatened
to and will enforce such State Statutes against these
Complainants and others similarly situated in the event
that such Complainants and others similarly situated
refuse to comply with said State Statutes or do any of
the acts made unlawful by said State Statutes." It is
to be noted that the court did not find any threat to
enforce any specific provision of either law. And there
is a complete lack of record evidence or information of
any other sort to show any threat to prosecute the complainants or any one else in connection with any specific
clause or paragraph of the numerous prohibitions of the
acts, subject to a possible exception to be discussed later.
The most that can possibly be gathered from the meager
record references to this vital allegation of complainants' bill is that though no suits had been threatened,
and no criminal or civil proceedings instituted, and no
particular proceedings contemplated, the state officials
stood ready to perform their duties under their oath of
office should they acquire knowledge of violations. And
as to the 1937 act, the state's Attorney General took the
position from the very beginning, both below and in this
Court, that under his construction of the earlier act no
duties of any kind were imposed upon him and his subordinates except with relationship to prohibited combinations of the type defined in § 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Federal injunctions against state criminal statutes,
either in their entirety or with respect to their separate
and distinct prohibitions, are not to be granted as a matter of course, even if such statutes are unconstitutional.
"No citizen or member of the community is immune
from prosecution, in good faith, for his alleged criminal
acts. The imminence of such a prosecution even though
alleged to be unauthorized and hence unlawful is not
alone ground for relief in equity which exerts its extraordinary powers only to prevent irreparable injury to the
plaintiff who seeks its aid." Beal v. Missouri Pacific
Railroad Corp., 312 U. S. 45, 49. A general statement
that an officer stands ready to perform his duty falls
far short of such a threat as would warrant the intervention of equity. And this is especially true where
there is a complete absence of any showing of a definite
and expressed intent to enforce particular clauses of a
broad, comprehensive and multi-provisioned statute.
For such a general statement is not the equivalent of a
threat that prosecutions are to be begun so immediately,
in such numbers, and in such manner as to indicate the
virtual certainty of that extraordinary injury which
alone justifies equitable suspension of proceedings in
criminal courts. The imminence and immediacy of proposed enforcement, the nature of the threats actually
made, and the exceptional and irreparable injury which
complainants would sustain if those threats were carried
out are among the vital allegations which must be shown
to exist before restraint of criminal proceedings is justified. Yet from the lack of consideration accorded to
this aspect of the complaint, both by complainants in
preseilting their case and by the court below in reaching
a decision, it is clearly apparent that there was a failure
to give proper weight to what is in our eyes an essential
prerequisite to the exercise of this equitable power. The
clear import of this record is that the court below thought
that if a federal court finds a many-sided state criminal

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

Opinion of the Court.

statute unconstitutional, a mere statement by a prosecuting officer that he intends to perform his duty is sufficient justification to warrant the federal court in enjoining all state prosecuting officers from in any way enforcing the statute in question. Such, however, is not the
rule. "The general rule is that equity will not interfere
to prevent the enforcement of a criminal statute even
though unconstitutional. . . . To justify such interference there must be exceptional circumstances and a clear
showing that an injunction is necessary in order to afford
adequate protection of constitutional rights. . .. We
have said that it must appear that 'the danger of irreparable loss is both great and immediate'; otherwise the
accused should first set up his defense in the state court,
even though the validity of a statute is challenged.
There is ample opportunity for ultimate review by this
Court of federal questions." Spielman Motor Sales Co.
v. Dodge, 295 U. S.89, 95-96.
Such "exceptional circumstances" and "great and immediate" danger of irreparable loss were not here shown.
Tested by this rule, therefore, and with the possible exception of that phase of the statute outlawing Florida
activities by combinations declared unlawful in § 1 of
the 1937 act (which we shall later consider separately),
neither the findings of the court below nor the record
on which they were based justified an injunction against
the state prosecuting officers.
In addition to the fact that the situation here does not
meet the tests laid down in the decided cases, the very
scope of these two statutes illustrates the wisdom of a
policy of judicial self-restraint on the part of federal
courts in suspending state statutes in their entirety upon
the ground that a complainant might eventually be prosecuted for violating some part of them. The Florida
Supreme Court, which under our dual system of government has the last word on the construction and meaning of statutes of that state, has never yet passed upon
326252°-41-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the statutes now before us. It is highly desirable that
it should have an opportunity to do so.' There are
forty-two separate sections in the two acts. While some
sections are repetitious, and while other sections are unimportant for present purposes, there are embraced
within these two acts many separate and distinct regulations, commands and prohibitions. No one can foresee the varying applications of these separate provisions
which conceivably might be made. A law which is constitutional as applied in one manner may still contravene
the Constitution as applied in another. Since all contingencies of attempted enforcement cannot be envisioned
in advance of those applications, courts have in the main
found it wiser to delay passing upon the constitutionality
of all the separate phases of a comprehensive statute
until faced with cases involving particular provisions
as specifically applied to persons who claim to be injured.
Passing upon the possible significance of the manifold
provisions of a broad statute in advance of efforts to apply the separate provisions is analogous to rendering an
advisory opinion upon a statute or a declaratory judgment upon a hypothetical case. It is of course conceivable that a statute might be flagrantly and patently
violative of express constitutional prohibitions in every
clause, sentence and paragraph, and in whatever manner
and against whomever an effort might be made to apply
it. It is sufficient to say that the statutes before us are
not of this type. Cases under the separate sections and
paragraphs of the acts can be tried as they arise-preferably in the state courts. Any federal questions that
are properly presented can then be brought here. But
Cf., e. g., Arkansas Corporation Commission v. Thompson, ante,
132, 144; Railroad Commission of Texas v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S.
496, 499; Railroad Commission of Texas v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co.,
311 U. S. 570, 575; Thompson v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 309 U. S.
478, 483; Ex parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610, 619; Gilchrist v. Interborough Rapid Transit Co., 279 U. S. 159, 207.

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

Opinion of the Court.

at this time the record does not justify our passing upon
any part of the statute except, possibly, that phase which
prohibits activities in Florida by combinations declared
unlawful. While the proof and findings in this regard
are not as clear and specific as they might and should be,
we nevertheless, under the circumstances of this case,
proceed to this ultimate and decisive question.
In the consideration of this case, much confusion has
been brought about by discussing the statutes as though
the power of a state to prohibit or regulate combinations
in restraint of trade was identical with and went no further than the power exercised by Congress in the Sherman Act. Such an argument rests upon a mistaken
premise.' Nor is it within our province, in determining
whether or not this phase of the state statute comes into
collision with the Federal Constitution or laws passed
pursuant thereto, to scrutinize the act in order to determine whether we believe it to be fair or unfair, conducive
to good or evil for the people of Florida, or capable of
protecting or defeating the public interest of the state.7
These questions were for the legislature of Florida and
it has decided them. And, unless constitutionally valid
federal legislation has granted to individual copyright
owners the right to combine, the state's power validly
to prohibit the proscribed combinations cannot be held
non-existent merely because such individuals can pre'We have been referred to a recent consent decree against ASCAP
in the federal district court for the Southern District of New York,
the theory being that the decree might have some bearing upon the
state's power to pass the legislation now under attack. But it has
not. In matters relating to purely intrastate transactions, the state
might pass valid regulations to prohibit restraint of trade even if
the federal government had no law whatever with reference to similar
matters involving interstate transactions.
The court below concluded as a matter of law that "enactment
of the said Statute was not necessary to protect, nor does it serve
the public interest of the State of Florida. . ."

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

serve their property rights better in combination than
they can as individuals. We find nothing in the copyright laws which purports to grant to copyright owners
the privilege of combining in violation of otherwise valid
state or federal laws. We have, in fact, determined tothe contrary with relation to other copyright privileges."
But complainants urge that there is a distinction between our previous holdings and the question here. This
contention is based on the idea that Congress has granted
the copyright privilege with relation to public performances of music, and that with reference to the protection
of this particular privilege, combination is essential. We
are therefore asked to conclude from the asserted necessities of their situation that Congress intended to grant
this extraordinary privilege of combination. This we
cannot do. We are pointed to nothing either in the language of the copyright laws or in the history of their
enactment to indicate any congressional purpose to deprive the states, either in whole or in part, of their longrecognized power to regulate combinations in restraint
of trade. Compare Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No.
1), 212 U. S. 86, 107.
Under the findings of fact of the court below, ASCAP
comes squarely within the definition of the combinations
prohibited by § 1 of the 1937 act. Section 1 defines as
an unlawful combination an aggregation of authors, composers, publishers, and owners of copyrighted vocal or
instrumental musical compositions who form any society, association, or the like, and the members of which
constitute a substantial number of the persons, firms or
corporations within the United States who own or control such musical compositions, and "when one of the
objects of such combination is the determination and fix8

Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States, 306 U. S. 208. Cf.

Fashion Originators' Guild of America v. Federal Trade Commission,
312 U. S. 457; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436.

WATSON v. BUCK.
387

Opinion of the Court.

ation of license fees or other exactions required by such
combination for itself or its members or other interested
parties." Section 8 of the 1937 act makes it an offense
for such combinations "to act within this State in violation of the terms of this Act." The court below found
that there were 1425 composers and authors who were
members of ASCAP; that the principal music publishers of the country are members; that the Society
controls the right of performance of 45,000 members of
similar societies in foreign countries; and that the Board
of Directors of ASCAP have "absolute control over the
fixing of prices to be charged for performance licenses . . ." Since under the record and findings here

ASCAP is an association within the meaning of § 1 of
the 1937 act, we are not called upon at its instance to
pass upon the validity of other provisions contained in
the numerous clauses, sentences, and phases of the 1937
or 1939 act whi ch might cover other combinations not
now before us. It is enough for us to say in this case
that the phase of Florida's law prohibiting activities of
those unlawful combinations described in § 1 of the 1937
act does not contravene the copyright laws or the Federal Constitution; that particular attacks upon other
specified provisions of the statutes involved are not appropriate for determination in this proceeding; that the
court below erred in granting the injunction; and that
the bill should have been dismissed. All other questions
remain open for consideration and disposition in appropriate proceedings. For the reasons given, the judgment below in No. 610 is reversed and the cause is remanded to the lower court with instructions to dismiss
the bill. The judgment in No. 611 is affirmed.
No. 610 reversed.
No. 611 affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

