OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

313 U. S.

DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY OF INDIANA ET AL.
v. WOOD PRESERVING CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 654. Argued April 1, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
1. A State may tax the gross receipts derived by a foreign corporation from goods bought and sold by it within the State. Adams
Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, distinguished. P. 66.
2. A foreign corporation can not escape such a tax by arranging
to have the proceeds of its intrastate transactions paid to it in
another State. P. 67.
3. A Delaware corporation, respondent in this case, arranged by telephone from its Ohio office with Indiana producers for delivery
of railroad ties in Indiana at a loading point on the line of a railroad company with which it had contracted both to sell ties
and to treat them with creosote at its plant in Ohio. When
brought to the railroad, in Indiana, the ties were examined by
the railroad's inspector in the presence of respondent's agent,
and those accepted by the inspector were immediately loaded
on cars and were hauled to the Ohio plant, under bills of lading
naming the respondent as consignor and an officer of the railroad as consignee. Respondent paid no freight for the transportation. Its Ohio office mailed weekly invoices to the railroad at its office in Maryland for the ties so delivered to the
railroad, and monthly reports of such invoices were made to respondent's main office in Pennsylvania. All payments for ties
were made to respondent's office in Pennsylvania and were there
deposited in bank. Held:
(1) That the sales of ties to the railroad in Indiana were local
transactions separate from the creosoting service and the receipts from such sales were subject to the Indiana tax. P. 68.
(2) The circumstance that the billing was in the name of the
respondent as consignor is immaterial, in view of the completed delivery to the railroad in Indiana. P. 68.
114 F. 2d 922, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 670, to review the reversal of a
judgment against the present respondent in its suit to

recover money collected as taxes by the Treasurer of the
State of Indiana.

DEPT. OF TREASURY v. WOOD CORP.

63

Opinion of the Court.

62

Messrs. Joseph P. McNamara and Joseph W. Hutchinson, Deputy Attorneys General of Indiana, with whom
Mr. George N. Beamer, Attorney General, was on the
brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Harry T. Ice, with whom Messrs. Frederick E.
Matson and Carleton 31". Crick were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought by respondent, The Wood Preserving Corporation, to recover -taxes collected from it by
the Department of Treasury of the State of Indiana under
the Indiana Gross Income Tax Act of 1933. The District Court denied recovery and its judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the ground
that the taxes were invalid under the Federal Constitution as laid upon income received outside the State
and as constituting an unlawful burden upon interstate
commerce. 114 F. 2d 922. In view of the asserted
conflict with applicable decisions of this Court, certiorari
was granted, 312 U. S. 670.
The facts were found in accordance with the stipulation of the parties. Respondent is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business at Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. It is qualified to do business in Indiana
but has no agents or employees within that State except
as specified. Respondent is engaged in the business of
treating railroad ties by creosoting them and also in the
business of purchasing and selling ties. It does not,
however, sell ties save to those with whom it has a contract for treatment.
The taxes in question were for the years 1934, 1935,
and 1936. The taxes were laid upon respondent's gross
receipts from the sale of ties to the Baltimore and Ohio

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Railroad Company in accordance with certain contracts.
One contract required the Railroad Company to deliver
for treatment 600,000 ties annually to a treatment plant
at Finney, Ohio, belonging (through a subsidiary) to respondent. The other provided for the sale of raw ties
to the Railroad Company, delivered f. o. b. cars on the
railroad tracks; also for treatment of ties at another
plant to be operated by respondent (under lease from
the Railroad Company) in West Virginia. A supplemental agreement required respondent to ship all ties delivered to the railroad in territory west of the Ohio River,
including Indiana, to the plant at Finney, Ohio, for
treatment.

Respondent, sold to the Railroad Company

no ties that were not to be treated at one or the other of
its plants before use.
The course of business, so far as material here, was
as follows: Respondent itself produced no ties in Indiana. Requisitions for ties were issued from the Railroad Company's office in Baltimore and were accepted at
respondent's office in Marietta, Ohio, by telephone or
mail. Respondent then procured the ties from local producers in Indiana through communicaticns by telephone
or mail from its Marietta office. The Indiana vendors
delivered the ties at loading points on the railroad in
Indiana. When the ties were ready, an inspector for
the Railroad Company and respondent's agent met at
the loading point in Indiana, and as the ties were examined with respect to compliance with specifications,
those accepted by the railroad inspector were loaded on
freight cars furnished by the Railroad Company at the
loading point. The inspection and loading were simultaneous. Respondent paid the Indiana producers only
for ties which were thus accepted. Respondent's agent
made out bills of lading with respondent as consignor
and the Railroad Company's Chief Engineer of Maintenance at Finney, Ohio, as consignee, and the ties were

DEPT. OF TREASURY v. WOOD CORP.

65

Opinion of the Court.

62

carried to Finney, Ohio, for treatment. Respondent
paid no freight to the Railroad Company for that transportation. Respondent's office at Marietta m ai I e d
weekly invoices to the Railroad Company at its Baltimore office for the ties sold and delivered to the Railroad
Company and monthly reports of such invoices were
made to respondent's main office at Pittsburgh. All payments for ties were made to respondent's Pittsburgh
office and were there deposited in bank.
The taxes in question were laid by the Indiana authorities on the receipts which respondent derived from
the sale of the untreated ties. These receipts did not
include charges for the creosoting treatment; those
charges were separately billed by respondent's subsidiary
when the treatment was completed.
Section 2 of the Indiana Taxing Act of 1933, the text
of which is set forth in the margin," provides for a tax
upon gross income "derived from sources within the State
of Indiana" of all nonresident persons and corporations.
The court below has held that under this statute the
'Section 2 of Chapter 50 of the Acts of 1933 of Indiana is as
follows:
"See. 2. There is hereby imposed a tax, measured by the amount
or volume of gross income, and in the amount to be determined by
the application of rates on such gross income as hereinafter provided. Such tax shall be levied upon the entire gross income of
all residents of the State of Indiana, and upon the gross income
derived from sources within the State of Indiana, of all persons
and/or companies, including banks, who are not residents of the
State of Indiana, but are engaged in business in this state, or who
derive gross income from sources within this state, and shall be in
addition to all other taxes now or hereafter imposed with respect
to particular occupations and/or activities. Said tax shall apply
to, and shall be levied and collected upon, all gross incomes received
on or after the first day of May, 1933, with such exceptions and
limitations as may be hereinafter provided." 11 Burns Indiana
Statutes, ยง 64-2602.
326252---41----5

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

thing taxed was "the receipt of gross income" and as the
income in question was received by respondent in Pennsylvania, it was beyond the jurisdiction of Indiana; that,
if the contrary theory of the taxing officials was sound,
still the tax was invalid because no method was provided for allocating the tax to the income derived from
that part of the business transacted within Indiana; and,
further, that the transactions in question "were had in
interstate commerce," that the tax discriminated against
that commerce and for that reason was void.
We think that the court was in error in each of these
conclusions.
As to the first point, the court relied upon our decision
in Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307.
That was a case under the same taxing act of Indiana,
but there the tax was applied to gross receipts derived
by an Indiana corporation from sales in other States
of goods manufactured in Indiana. We observed that
the tax is not an excise for the privilege of domicile
"since it is levied upon the gross income of nonresidents from sources within the State." The point of
the decision was that "the tax is what it purports to
be,-a tax upon gross receipts from commerce," and that
the tax was there laid upon receipts from sales to customers in other States and abroad which constituted
interstate and foreign commerce. Id., pp. 310, 311.
The present question is as to the validity of the tax
upon receipts "derived from sources within the State," 2
that is, under ยง 2 of the Act, from activities which petitioners insist were intrastate. If petitioners are right
in this contention there can be no doubt that Indiana
had authority to lay the tax. Underwood Typewriter
$ee Miles v.- Department of Treasury, 209 Ind. 172, 188; 199
N. E..372; Indiana Creosoting Co. v. McNutt, 210 Ind. 656, 6G3, 664;
5)N. E.2d 310.

DEPT. OF TREASURY v. WOOD CORP.
62

67

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113, 120, 121; Bowman v.
Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S.. 642, 648, 649; National
Leather Co. v. Massachusetts, 277 U. S. 413, 423; Hans
Rees' Sons v. North Carolina,283 U. S. 123, 134; James
v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, 149, 161; Dravo
ContractingCo. v. James, 114 F. 2d 242, 247. Compare
Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435. In that
view, it cannot be said that respondent had a constitutional right to escape that burden by arranging to have
the, proceeds of its intrastate transactions paid to it in
another State. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, supra, p. 120; Continental Assurance Co. v. Tennessee, 311 U. S. 5.
Further, as the sole subject of the challenged tax is
the income derived from respondent's sales to the Railroad Company there is no occasion for apportionment.
The creosoting operations in Ohio, and the income derived from them, were not involved. And the fact that
the ties which were sold to the Railroad Company were
purchased by respondent through orders given to the
Indiana producers from respondent's Marietta office
cannot affect the authority of Indiana to tax the receipts
from intrastate activities of respondent in its dealings
with the Railroad Company. Woodruff v. Parham, 8
Wall. 123, 140; Banker Brothers v. Pennsylvania, 222
U. S. 210; Wiloil Corporationv. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S.
169, 175.
As to these dealings, it appears that respondent received in Indiana the ties it purchased from the local
producers and that respondent sold and delivered these
ties in Indiana to the Railroad Company. The fact that
the delivery by the producers to respondent and respondent's delivery to the Railroad Company took place at the
same time is not important. Respondent was in Indiana
acting through its agent at the designated points on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

railroad line. The Railroad Company was at the same
points represented by its inspector. The ties brought
there by the producers were then examined and those
found by the inspector to be in accordance with specifications were accepted. In these transactions, respondent
through its agent at once accepted from its vendors the
ties which the Railroad Company found satisfactory and
then and there sold and delivered these ties to the Railroad Company. These were local transactions,--sales
and deliveries of particular ties by respondent to the
Railroad Company in Indiana. The transactions were
none the less intrastate activities because the ties thus
sold and delivered were forthwith loaded on the railroad cars to go to Ohio for treatment. The contract
providing for that treatment called for the treatment
of ties to be delivered by the Railroad Company at the
Ohio plant, and the ties bought by the, Railroad Company in Indiana, as above stated, were transported and
delivered by the Railroad Company to that treatment
plant. Respondent did not pay the freight for that
transportation and the circumstance that the billing was
in its name as consignor is not of consequence in the
light of the facts showing the completed delivery to
the Railroad Company in Indiana. See Superior Oil Co.
v. Mississippi,280 U. S. 390.
We find no ground for saying that ir. taxing the receipts from these local transactions Indiana has exceeded
its constitutional authority by taxing interstate commerce or discriminating against it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.

