OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

313 U. S.

299 U. S. 178, where a New York statute was held such an
integral part of a contract of insurance, that Georgia was
compelled to sustain the contract under the full faith and
credit clause. Here, however, ยง 480 of the New York Civil
Practice Act is in no way related to the validity of the
contract in suit, but merely to an incidental item of damages, interest, with respect to which courts at the forum
have commonly been free to apply their own or some other
law as they see fit. Nothing in the Constitution ensures
unlimited extraterritorial recognition of all statutes or of
any statute under all circumstances. Pacific Employers
Insurance Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306 U. S.
493; Kryger v. Wilson, 242 U. S. 171. The full faith and
credit clause does not go so far as to compel Delaware to
apply ยง 480 if such application would interfere with its
local policy.
Accordingly, the judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for decision in
conformity with the law of Delaware.
Reversed.
GRIFFIN, ADMINISTRATOR, v. McCOACH,
TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 755. Argued May 2, 1941.-Decided June 2, 1941.

1. The rules of conflict of laws which govern a federal court in
diversity of citizenship cases are those of the State in which the
federal court sits. Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Mfg. Co., ante, p. 487.

P. 503.
2. A State may constitutionally decline to enforce in its courts, as
contrary to its policy, a contract insuring the life of its citizen
in favor of beneficiaries who have no insurable interest, though
made in another State and valid where made; and such rule or
policy binds the federal court exercising diverse citizenship jurisdiction in the State adopting it. P. 506.

GRIFFIN v. McCOACH.
498

Opinion of the Court.

3. In an action in a federal court in Texas to collect the amount
of a life insurance policy which had been made in New York and
later changed by instruments assigning beneficial interests, held:
That the questions (1) whether the contract, notwithstanding the
changes, remained a contract governed by the law of New York
with respect to the rights of assignees, rather than by the law of
Texas; and (2) whether the public policy of Texas permits of
recovery by one named as beneficiary who has no beneficial interest in the life of the insured; and (3) whether lack of insurable
interest becomes immaterial when the insurer acknowledges liability and pays the money into court--were questions of Texas
law, to be decided according to Texas decisions. Pp. 504 et seq.
116 F. 2d 261, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 676, to review a decree which
affirmed a distribution of the proceeds of a life insurance
policy among several contending claimants.
Mr. Charles J. Shaeffer, with whom Mr. Jos. W.
Bailey, Jr. was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Carl B. Callaway for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action, begun in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Texas, by the personal
representatives substituted for the heirs at law of Colonel
Robert D. Gordon, who died a citizen and resident of Texas,
against the Prudential Insurance Company of America to
collect an insurance policy on the life of the decedent.
The Company filed a bill of interpleader (49 Stat. 1096;
28 U. S. C. ยง 41 (26)) making the respondent John D.
McCoach, Trustee, and other alleged claimants parties,
and tendering the net amount due under the policy. The
interpleader was allowed, the Company discharged from
the litigation, and the interests of all parties to the suit,
.other than petitioner and respondent, disposed of by the
decree in a manner to which no one objects here. The
controversy still to be decided is as to whether the estate

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Cwirt.

313 U. S.

or the Trustee is entitled to certain portions of the insurance. The circumstances giving rise to the issue follow.
Colonel Gordon, the insured, interested seven persons in
Texas oil developments, including McCoach, the Trustee,
in his individual capacity. They operated as a New York
common law association called the Middleton Tex Oil
Syndicate. The record here shows that "Prior to the
issuing of the policy and thereafter, the members advanced
considerable money to Gordon, and the premiums on the
policy were paid by the members of the syndicate at Gordon's request, upon his agreement to repay the syndicate.
Premiums were paid on the policy by the syndicate, in
accordance with this agreement and were never repaid
by Gordon." A term insurance policy was taken outby
Gordon with the Syndicate named as beneficiary. When
the policy was issued, and at all times subsequent until his
death, Gordon was a citizen of Texas. The Syndicate
originally had physical possession of the policy. Two
years after its issuance the Syndicate ceased operations.
In 1924, due to financial reverses, it ceased to do business
and the members formed a new association called the
Protection Syndicate. McCoach became and continues as
Trustee of the Syndicate. It was organized "for the sole
purpose" of paying the premiums on the policy and receiving and distributing the proceeds among the members. This it did until the insured's death. The beneficiary in the policy was changed to make the members of
the Protection Syndicate the beneficiaries. By arrangement between the decedent and the members of the Protection Syndicate in 1934 a further change of beneficaries
was made by which, in consideration of the insured's release of the right to change beneficiaries on presentation of
the policy for endorsement, hitherto retained, one-eighth
of the disability proceeds of the policy were to be paid the
insured, and Qne-eighth of the death proceeds to his wife,
and the remaining seven-eighths to the Trustee for the
members of the Protection Syndicate.

GRIFFIN v. McCOACH.
498

Opinion of the Court.

"The application for the policy was signed by Gordon
in the State of New York, and forwarded to the home
office of the Prudential Insurance Company in the State
of New Jersey, and there acted upon, and the policy was
delivered in the State of New York." The later arrangement, by which Gordon and his wife became beneficiaries of one-eighth of the proceeds, was consummated
by certain forms furnished by the Prudential and "transmitted . . . from Middletown, N. Y., to Tyler, Texas,
for Colonel Gordon's signature. They were there executed by Colonel Gordon before a notary public in Tyler,
Texas, and returned to Middletown, N. Y., where they
were executed by the parties residing there, from whence
they were sent by Schweiger [an agent of the Prudential
and a member of the Syndicate], with the policy, to the
home office at Newark, N. J., and subsequently the forms
were indorsed on the policy and it was returned directly
from New Jersey to the beneficiaries in New York."
Thereafter, three of the members of the Protection
Syndicate separately assigned their interests in the policy
to three individuals not previously interested in the transaction. These assignees paid their proportion of the premiums after the respective assignments.
The District Court decreed that Mrs. Gordon should
receive her one-eighth and that the balance of the proceeds should be paid the Trustee for the benefit of the
cross-defendants, members of the Protection Syndicate.
The decree was based on a finding that the policy was a
New York contract and that the subsequent changes were
made in New Jersey and delivered in New York. Further, the District Court concluded that the relation of
debtor and creditor existed between the members of the
Syndicate and their assignees upon the one hand and
the insured upon the other, and that therefore all the
cestuis que trustent had an insurable interest in Colonel
Gordon's life.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

An appeal limited to the "correctness of the judgment
of the trial court concerning the persons entitled to receive the assigned interests" was prosecuted on an agreed
statement of the record under Rule 76 of the Rules of
Civil Procedure. In the statement, petitioner sets out
two points now relied upon for reversal. First: That
the assignment and change of beneficiary was governed
by the law of Texas; that the Trustee claimed only under the assignment; that beneficiaries must have an insurable interest under Texas law and that the assignees
had none. Hence, the personal representative was entitled to recover their portions of the policy for the estate.
Wilke v. Finn, 39 S. W. 2d 836. Second: That if the
whole transaction was governed by the law of another
state than Texas, in which other state an insurable interest was not required, the United States District Court
sitting in Texas was bound by the public policy of Texas
which forbids persons without an insurable interest to
collect in Texas, as beneficiaries, the proceeds of insurance
policies.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 116 F. 2d 261.
It held too that the policy was a New York policy, governed by the law of that state, and that, as the subsequent
changes were made pursuant to agreements contained
in the original policy, they did not amount to new contracts or change the governing law. Cf. Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Dunken, 266 U. S.389. The Court said:
"Under the terms of the policy, a New York contract,
no restrictions were placed upon assignments relating to
insurable interest. None was created by the laws of New
York. Each of the assignments was executed and delivered in New York by residents of that state to other
residents. They were New York contracts and valid under its laws. To apply the laws of Texas to the New York
contracts would constitute an unwarranted extra-territorial control of contracts and regulation of business out-

GRIFFIN v. McCOACH.
498

Opinion of the Court.

side of Texas in disregard of the laws of New York; this
is not changed by the trial of the suit in a court sitting
in Texas."
As to the violation of the claimed public policy of Texas
against beneficiaries with non-insurable interests, the
Court of Appeals decided that the rule could not be applied where, as here, a "fair and proper insurable interest" existed when the policy was issued. 116 F. 2d 261,
264. Certiorari was sought and allowed, 312 U. S. 676,
on the ground, among others, of a conflict between the
instant case and Sampson v. Channell, 110 F. 2d 754,
759-62, where the First Circuit held that a United States
court must apply the conflict of laws rules of the state
where it sits.
For the reasons given in Klaxon Company v. Stentor
Electric ManufacturingCo., ante,p. 487, we are of the view
that the federal courts in diversity of citizenship cases are
governed by the conflict of laws rules of the courts of the
states in which they sit. In deciding that the changes
made in the insurance contract left its governing law unaffected 1 and that the laws of Texas could not be applied
to a foreign contract in Texas courts,' the federal courts
were applying rules of law in a way which may or may not
have been consistent with Texas decisions. Likewise it
is for Texas to say whether its public policy permits a beneficiary of an insurance policy on the life of a Texas citizen
to recover where no insurable interest in the decedent exists
in the beneficiary. The opinion does not rest its conclusions upon its appraisal of Texas law or Texas decisions,
but upon decisions of this Court inapplicable to this situation in the light of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.
64, and Ruhlin v. New York Life Insurance Co., 304 U. S.
202, 205.' The statement in the opinion "that it is im' Cf. Miller v. Campbell, 140 N. Y. 457; 35 N. E. 651.
'Cf. Union Trust Co. v. Grosman,245 U. S. 412.
'Compare Grigsby v. Russell, 222 U. S. 149; Connecticut Mutual
Life Ins. Co. v. Schaefer, 94 U. S. 457, relied upon below.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

material, in so far as the decision of this case is concerned,
whether the law. of Texas or the law of New York be applied," we understand, from a reading of the whole opinion,
to mean that, while an insurable interest is required in
Texas and not in New York, the lack of insurable interest
is immaterial in this case even in Texas because "the insurer acknowledged liability and paid the money into
court. This being so, not only does the objection of
wagers disappear, but also the claimed principle of public
policy." But this is something to be decided according to
Texas decisions, to none of which the opinion refers. Cf.
Wilke v. Finn, 39 S. W. 2d 836; Cheeves v. Anders, 87
Texas 287; 28 S. W. 274. The decision must be reversed
and remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for determination of the law of Texas as applied to the circumstances of this case.
In view of the holding quoted from the opinion below,
ante, p. 502, that to apply the laws of Texas to New York
contracts when Texas citizens were parties would constitute an unwarranted extraterritorial control of contracts
and regulation of business, it seems necessary to examine
that position, as it may be determined upon remand that
these are foreign contracts and under Texas law unenforceable as contrary to the public policy of Texas, because the assignees have no insurable interest. It would
then be necessary to decide whether the courts of Texas
could constitutionally apply Texas law to a foreign contract, valid where made, because such contract is contrary to the state's public policy. 4 If the Circuit Court

of Appeals was correct in its view that the Constitution
foreclosed application of such a Texas public policy to
this case, the only question open on remand would be'
whether the contract sued upon was a Texas contract.
But the cases relied upon in the Court of Appeals to
'Cf. Sampson v. Channell, 110 F. 2d 754, 759.

GRIFFIN v. McCOACH.
498

Opinion of the Court.

support its holding ' do not in our opinion decide this
question. Overby v. Gordon holds that the adjudication
of a probate court of Georgia that the decedent was a
resident of that state was a proceeding in rem and did
not bind the courts of the District of Columbia in a
suit to determine anew decedent's domicile. New York
Life Insurance Co. v. Head passed upon the application,
by Missouri courts, of Missouri statutes, providing for an
extension of insurance on default of premium, to an insurance contract assumed as of Missouri, though the insured at the time of issue and thereafter was a citizen
of New Mexico. A New York loan agreement subsequent to the issuance of the policy between the insured
and the Company, a citizen of New York, provided for
extension after default, which was contrary to the Missouri statutes. This Court held the Missouri statutes
were ineffective because the New York loan agreement
was beyond Missouri's jurisdiction. The point that Missouri might refuse enforcement because the agreement,
valid in New York, was contrary to the public policy of
the former, was not discussed. In Bond v. Hume, a few
years later, this Court reserved the principle here in
question.' The Aetna case denied the constitutional
power of the Texas courts to apply a Texas statute allowing a penalty and attorneys' fees against the company in
a suit on an insurance contract made in a foreign jurisdiction with a person then a citizen of Tennessee, because
'Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214, 222; New York Life Insurance
Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149; Bond v. Hume, 243 U. S. 15; Aetna
Life Insurance Co. v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389, 399.
01243 U. S. at 25: "And of course we must not be understood as
deciding whether the mere existence of a state statute punishing one
who in bad faith, and because of such bad faith, had made an agreement to deliver in a contract of sale which would be otherwise valid,
could become the basis of a public policy preventing the enforcement
in Texas of contracts for sale and delivery made in another State
which were there valid although one of the parties might have made
the agreement to deliver in bad faith."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the "effect of such application would be to regulate business outside the State of Texas and control contracts
made by citizens of other States in disregard of their laws
under which penalties and attorney's fees are not recoverable." 266 U. S. at 399. The freedom from penalty and fee was deemed a part of the foreign contract
and its effect on the public policy of Texas was not
appraised.
If upon examination of the Texas law it appears that
the courts of Texas would refuse enforcement of an insurance contract where the beneficiaries have no insurable interest, on the ground of its interference with local
law, such refusal would be, in our opinion, within the
constitutional power of the Texas courts. Rights acquired by contract outside a state are enforced within
a state, certainly where its own citizens are concerned;
but that principle excepts claimed rights so contrary to
the law of the forum as to subvert the forum's view of
public policy. Cf. Loucks v. Standard Oil Co., 224 N. Y.
99, 110; 120 N. E. 198. It is "rudimentary" that a state
"will not lend the aid of its courts to enforce a contract
founded upon a foreign law where to do so would be repugnant to good morals, would lead to disturbance and
disorganization of the local municipal law, or in other
words, violate the public policy of the State where the
enforcement of the foreign contract is sought." Bond v.
Hume, 243 U. S. 15, 21. Applying that reasoning, this
Court affirmed the federal court in following Texas' decisions which refused to enforce a valid foreign contract
of guarantyship against a married woman. Union Trust
Co. v. Grosman, 245 U. S. 412. Likewise, state courts
have been upheld in refusing to lend their aid to enforce
Before Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, this Court decided as a matter of general law that where time of notice is important the foreign law governs. Boseman v. Insurance Co., 301 U. S.
196, 202.

GRIFFIN v. McCOACH.
498

Opinion of the Court.

valid foreign contracts which required the doing of prohibited acts within the state of the forum. Bothwell v.
Buckbee, Mears Co., 275 U. S. 274, 278. Where this
Court has required the state of the forum to apply the
foreign law under the full faith and credit clause or under the Fourteenth Amendment, it has recognized that a
state is not required to enforce a law obnoxious to its
public policy. Bradford Electric Co. v. Clapper, 286
U. S. 145, 160, 161; Hartford Indemnity Co. v. Delta Co.,
292 U. S. 143, 150. The rule was not applied where the
parties to the contract acquired rights beyond the state's
borders with no relation to anything done or to be done
within the borders. Home Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281
U. S. 397, 410.
In the Head case the foreign and local law differed as
to the manner of extending insurance; in the Aetna case
the difference arose from a local provision for attorney's
fees and penalty; in the Delta case the time for notice
varied in the two jurisdictions. In New York Life Insurance Co. v. Dodge, 246 U. S. 357, it was said that a
statute of the state of the forum, regulating the application of insurance reserves in case of default of premium, was not effective, even though the insurance contract was a local contract and the insured a citizen of the
state, to govern rights under a loan agreement made in a
foreign jurisdiction. But these fall short of a public
policy which protects citizens against the assumed dangers of insurance on their lives held by strangers. It is
for the state to say whether a contract contrary to such
a statute or rule of law is so offensive to its view of public welfare as to require its courts to close their doors to
its enforcement.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FIANKFURTER concurs in the result.

