HELVERING v. FLACCUS LEATHER CO. 247
236

Statement of the Case.

hibitions or restraints which respondents have suggested
for the invalidation of this legislation are those notions
of public policy embedded in earlier decisions of this
Court but which, as Mr. Justice Holmes long admonished, should not be read into the Constitution. Tyson
& Brother v. Banton, supra, at p. 446; Adkins v. Children's Hospital, supra, at p. 570. Since they do not find
expression in the Constitution, we cannot give them continuing vitality as standards by which the constitutionality of the economic and social programs of the states is
to be determined.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the Supreme Court of Nebraska for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
OAK
v. WILLIAM
FLACCUS
REVENUE,
CO.
LEATHER
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 627. Argued April 3, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
A sum received by a taxpayer as proceeds of insurance on buildings
and equipment destroyed by fire (no part of the sum so received
having been expended to replace the destroyed property, which
prior to 1935 had been completely depreciated for income tax
purposes), held not a gain from the "sale or exchange" of capital
assets within the meaning of § 117 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1934. P. 249.
114 F. 2d 783, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U.'S. 671, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained
the Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in
income tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Lee A. Jaccson were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. John A. McCann for respondent.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

In September, 1935, respondent's plant was destroyed
by fire. Later that year it received $73,132.50 from an
insurance company as compensation for the loss of buildings, machinery, and equipment. The buildings, machinery, and equipment had been fully depreciated for
income tax purposes prior to 1935, and no part of the
insurance proceeds was used to acquire other property
similar or related in service or use to the property destroyed, or to acquire control of a corporation owning
such property, or to establish a fund to replace the property destroyed.
In its return for 1935, respondent reported the insurance proceeds as capital gain and added to that
amount a gain, not in issue here, of $862.50 from sales
of securities. During that same year, respondent had
capital losses, also not in dispute, of $76,767.62 which it
used to offset completely the total reported capital gains
of $73,995. This left an excess of capital losses over capital
gains of $2,772.62, and respondent deducted $2,000 of
that amount from ordinary income.
The Commissioner held that the insurance proceeds
were ordinary income rather than capital gain. Accordingly, he decreased respondent's capital gain and increased its ordinary income by $73,132.50, and allowed
respondent capital losses of only $2,862.50, an amount
equal to the gain from security sales plus $2,000. The
Board of Tax Appeals affirmed in a memorandum opinion
on the authority of Estate of Herder, 36 B. T. A. 934.

HELVERING v. FLACCUS LEATHER CO.
247

249

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 114 F. 2d 783.
We granted certiorari, 312 U. S. 671, because the decision
below was in conflict with Herder v. Helvering, 70 App.
D. C. 287; 106 F. 2d 153.
It is conceded that respondent's losses resulted from
sales or exchanges of capital assets. It is also conceded
that the entire amount received from the insurance company must be included in respondent's income since the
property had been fully depreciated for income tax purposes prior to 1935. Respondent contends, however, that
that amount may be reported as capital gain, in order
that capital losses may absorb it, rather than as an item
of ordinary gross income.
Section 117 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1934 (48 Stat.
680) provides in part:. "Losses from sales or exchanges
of capital assets shall be allowed only to the extent of
$2,000 plus the gains from such sales or exchanges."
Thus, the single question is whether the amount respondent received from the insurance company derived from
the "sale or exchange" of a capital asset.
Generally speaking, the language in the Revenue Act,
just as in any statute, is to be given its ordinary meaning,
and the words "sale" and "exchange" are not to be read
any differently. Compare Helvering v. Hammel, 311
U. S. 504; Fairbanks v. United States, 306 U. S. 436;
Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103. Neither term is appropriate to characterize the demolition of property and
subsequent compensation for its loss by an insurance
company. Plainly that pair of events was not a sale.
Nor can they be regarded as an exchange, for "exchange,"
as used in § 117 (d), implies reciprocal transfers of capital assets, not a single transfer to compensate for the
destruction of the transferee's asset.
The fact that § 112 (f) characterizes destruction of property and indemnification for its loss as an involuntary
conversion does not establish that the two events constituted a sale or exchange. That section provides: "If

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

property (as a result of its destruction in whole or in
part, theft or seizure, or an exercise of the power of requisition or condemnation, or the threat or imminence
thereof) is compulsorily or involuntarily converted into
property similar or related in service or use to the property so converted, or into money which is forthwith in
good faith, under regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary, expended in
the acquisition of other property similar or related in
service or use to the property so converted, or in the acquisition of control of a corporation owning such other
property, or in the establishment of a replacement fund,
no gain or loss shall be recognized. If any part of the
money is not so expended, the gain, if any, shall be recognized, but in an amount not in excess of the money which
is not so expended."
We can find nothing in this language or in other sections of the Act which indicates, either expressly or by
implication, that Congress intended to classify as "sales
or exchanges" the involuntary conversions enumerated
in § 112 (f). It is true that § 111 (c) says that "in the
case of a sale or exchange, the extent to which the gain
or loss . . . shall be recognized . . . shall be determined

under the provisions of section 112." It is also true that
§ 112 (f) follows § 112 (a) which provides that "upon
the sale or exchange of property the entire amount of
the gain or loss . . . shall be recognized, except as hereinafter provided in this section."
The inference, drawn from the juxtaposition and cross
referencing of these three sections, that the involuntary
conversion of respondent's property is thus implicitly
characterized as a sale or exchange ignores the fact that
in the same Act Congress has chosen a particular method
for classifying as sales or exchanges transactions which
would not ordinarily be described by one of those terms.
Thus § 115 (c) provides: "Amounts distributed in complete liquidation of a corporation shall be treated as in

HELVERING v. FLACCUS LEATHER CO. 251
247

Opinion of the Court.

full payment in exchange for the stock, and amounts distributed in partial liquidation of a corporation shall be
treated as in part or full payment in exchange for the
stock."
Section 117 (e) provides: "For the purposes of this
title gains or losses from short sales of property shall be
considered as gains or losses from sales or exchanges of
capital assets; and gains or losses attributable to the
failure to exercise privileges or options to buy or sell
property shall be considered as gains or losses from sales
or exchanges of capital assets held for one year or less."
See H. Rep. No. 704, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 31; H. Rep.
No. 1385, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 23. Section 117 (f)
provides: "For the purposes of this title, amounts received by the holder upon the retirement of bonds, debentures, notes, or certificates or other evidences of indebtedness issued by any corporation . . . with interest coupons
or in registered form, shall be considered as amounts received in exchange therefor." See McClain v. Commissioner, 311 U. S.527; Fairbanksv. United States, supra;
H. Rep. No. 704, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 31.
These sections demonstrate that Congress has expressly
specified the ambiguous transactions which are to be
regarded as sales or exchanges for income tax purposes.
They are convincing evidence that the involuntary conversion of respondent's property, which bears far less
resemblance to a sale or exchange than the transactions
embraced in §§ 115 (c), 117 (e), and 117 (f), is not to be
placed in one or the other of those categories by implication. The prompt withdrawal of Article 113 (a) (9) (1) of
Treasury Regulations No. 86 (see T. D. 4698, XV-2 Cum.
Bull. 159) indicates that the administrators charged with
the enforcement of § 112 (f) reached a similar conclusion. Compare Burnet v. Chicago PortraitCo., 285 U. S.
1, 16.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.

