NEW YORK v. FEIRING.
274

Statement of the Case.

pleading to the contrary in its answer, the invalidity
of the tax sales is now conceded by the State.
The United States is entitled to a decree setting aside
the tax sales and the certificates of purchase, and in other

respects the complaint is dismissed.
It is so ordered.

CITY OF NEW YORK v. FEIRING, TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 863. Argued May 7, 1941.-Decided May 26, 1941.
1. The question whether an obligation to a State is a tax entitled to
priority under § 64 of the Bankruptcy Act is a federal question.

P. 285.
2. The Bankruptcy Act is of nationwide application and § 64' thereof
is not to be construed or varied by the particular characterization by
local law of the state's demand. P. 285.
Provisions of the state law creating the obligation and decisions
of the state courts interpreting them are resorted to not to learn
whether they have denominated the obligation a "tax" but to ascertain whether its incidents are such as to constitute a tax within
the meaning of § 64.
3. The tax imposed by the New York City Sales Tax Law is a tax
on the seller within the meaning of § 64 of the Bankruptcy Act, as
well as on the buyer, since both are made liable for payment in
invitum and subject to distraint of their property for its collection.
P. 287.
It is not any the less a tax laid on the seller because the statute
places a like burden in the alternative on the purchaser or because
it affords to the seller facilities of which he did not avail himself to
pass the tax on to the buyer.
118 F. 2d 329, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 552, to review the affirmance of an
order of the District Court refusing priority of payment to

a tax claim asserted by the City of New York under § 64

of the Bankruptcy Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Mr. Paxton Blair, with whom Messrs. William C.
Chanler,Sol Charles Levine, and MorrisL. Heath were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Benjamin Siegel for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question is whether the obligation imposed upon
sellers by a New York City sales tax (No. 20, Local Laws
of New York City, 1934, as amended, No. 24, Local Laws
of New York City, 1934), to pay a tax laid upon receipts
from sales of personal property and collectible alternatively from the buyer or the seller is a "tax" entitled to
priority of payment in bankruptcy under § 64 of the
Bankruptcy Act.
Petitioner, New York City, filed its claim against the
estate of the bankrupt for taxes on sales of tangible
property by the bankrupt during the five years following January 10, 1934. In the proceeding before the referee it appeared that the bankrupt had failed to collect
most of the taxes from its buyers as required by the applicable law, and that the sole issue was with respect to
the right of the City to priority of payment of the City's
claim over those of general creditors. The District Court
set aside the referee's order allowing the priority and the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed, 118 F.
2d 329, holding that the sum claimed was not a tax, but
that the "bankrupt was liable to the city as a tax collector who owes as a debt the amount of taxes collected
or to be collected." We granted certiorari April 14, 1941,
because of the suggested failure of the court below to
follow our decision in New York City v. Goldstein, 299
U. S. 522, reversing In re Lazaroff, 84 F. 2d 982, and of
the asserted conflict in principle of the decision below
with that of the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
in Barbee v. Oklahoma Tax Commission, 103 F. 2d 114.

NEW YORK v. FEIRING.
283

Opinion of the Court.

Section 64 of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended June 22,
1938, 52 Stat. 840, 874, awards priority of payment, in
bankruptcy, to "taxes legally due and owing by the bankrupt to the United States or any State or any subdivision thereof . . ." Whether the present obligation is a
"tax" entitled to priority within the meaning of the statute is a federal question. New Jersey v. Anderson, 203
U. S. 483, 491; cf. Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 110;
Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551, 555; cf. United States
v. Pelzer, 312 U. S. 399. Intended to be nation-wide in
its application, nothing in the language of § 64 or its
legislative history suggests that its incidence is to be
controlled or varied by the particular characterization by
local law or the state's demand. Hence we look to the
terms and purposes of the Bankruptcy Act as establishing the criteria upon the basis of which the priority is
to be allowed.
As was pointed out in New Jersey v. Anderson, supra,
491, the priority commanded by § 64 extends to those
pecuniary burdens laid upon individuals or their property, regardless of their consent, for the purpose of defraying the expenses of government or of undertakings
authorized by it. The particular demand for which the
City now claims priority of payment as a tax is created
and defined by state enactment. We turn to its provisions and to the decisions of the state courts in interpreting them, not to learn whether they have denominated
the obligation a "tax" but to ascertain whether its incidents are such as to constitute a tax within the meaning of § 64. Cf. Morgan v. Commissioner, 309 U. S. 78,
80, 81 and cases cited; United States v. Pelzer, supra;
Ryerson v. United States, 312 U. S. 405.
, The present exaction is that which was considered, and
its constitutionality sustained, in McGoldrick v. BerwindWhite Co., 309 U. S. 33. The discussion of it there will
be supplemented here only so far as is needful for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

disposition of the issue now before us. It was enacted by
the municipal assembly of New York City as an emergency revenue measure to defray the expense of unemployment relief, pursuant to authority conferred by the
state legislature. Ch. 815, New York Laws 1933; Ch.
873, New York Laws 1934. Originally No. 24 of New
York Local Laws, 1934, it has since been annually renewed with minor amendments not now material. Section 2 lays a tax upon receipts from retail sales in New
York City of tangible personal property, and requires the
seller, with exceptions not now material, to charge the
buyer with the amount of the tax, separately from the
sales price and to collect the tax from him. Penalties are
imposed by § 15 for the seller's willful failure to comply with these requirements. Section 2 also commands
that the tax "shall be paid by the purchaser to the vendor,
for and on account of the City of New York." Section
5 requires the seller to file with the City Comptroller a
"return of his receipts and of the taxes payable thereon"
for prescribed periods. Section 6 requires the seller, at
the time of filing a return to pay to the Comptroller the
taxes upon all receipts required to be included in his return and also provides that "all taxes for the period for
which a return is required to be filed shall be due from
the vendor and payable to the Comptroller on the date
limited for the filing of the return for such period, without regard to whether a return is filed or whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of receipts
and the taxes due thereon." But if the seller fails to
collect the tax § 2 also makes it the duty of the purchaser
to fie a return with the Comptroller and commands that
"such tax shall be payable by the purchaser directly to
the Comptroller."
By § 8, whenever either the seller or purchaser "shall
fail to collect or pay over any tax and/or to pay any tax"
imposed by the law, the City is authorized to bring an

NEW YORK v. FEIRING.
283

Opinion of the Court.

action for its recovery or, as an alternative remedy, the
Comptroller is authorized to issue a warrant directed to
the sheriff of the county, commanding him to levy upon
and sell the real and personal property of the seller or
the purchaser and apply the proceeds to the payment of
the tax. In construing these provisions the New York
Court of Appeals has held that while the Comptroller
may proceed under § 2 to collect the tax from the purchaser if he has not paid it to the seller, see Matter of
Kesbec, Inc. v. McGoldrick, 278 N. Y. 293; 16 N. E. 2d
288, the duty to pay the tax is also laid upon the seller
whether he has in fact collected it and, regardless of his
ability to collect it from the buyer. Matter of Atlas Television Co., 273 N. Y. 51; 6 N. E. 2d 94; Matter of Brown
PrintingCo., 285 N. Y. 47; 32 N. E. 2d 787.
The statute thus contains provisions which in its normal operation are calculated to enable the seller to shift
the tax burden to the purchaser, see Matter of Kesbec,
Inc. v. McGoldrick, supra, 297; Matter of Merchants
Refrigerating Corp. v. Taylor, 275 N. Y. 113, 124; 9 N. E.
2d 799; cf. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra, 43,
44. But it is plain that both the vendor and the vendee
are made liable for payment of the tax in invitum without
regard to those provisions by which the seller may shift
the incidence of the tax to the buyer and the tax may be
summarily collected by distraint of the property of either
the seller or the buyer. A pecuniary burden so laid upon
the bankrupt seller for the support of government, and
without his consent, thus has all the characteristics of a
tax entitled to priority of payment in bankruptcy within
the meaning of § 64 of the Bankruptcy Act. New Jersey
v. Anderson, supra. Cf. United States v. Updike, 281
U. S. 489, 494. It is not any the less a tax laid on the
seller because the statute places a like burden in the
alternative on the purchaser or because it affords to the
seller facilities of which he did not avail himself to pass

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the tax on to the buyer. While an action in debt may
be resorted to for the recovery of a tax, it is evident that
in this case the bankrupt is liable to the state only because
it owes a tax. Pricev. United States, 269 U. S. 492, 500;
Milwaukee County v. White Co., 296 U. S. 268, 271.
In New York City v. Goldstein, supra, we reversed per
curiam, citing Matter of Atlas Television Co., supra, a
decision of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
that a claim of the City for payment of tax by the seller
was not entitled to priority under § 64 of the Bankruptcy
Act. The court below attributed our reversal to the circumstances that at that time, though not now, § 64 allowed priority to debts entitled to priority under state law,
and to the decision of the state court in the Atlas case, that
upon a general assignment for the benefit of creditors
made under state law a claim against the seller for the
sales tax was entitled to priority. But in placing this
interpretation upon our decision in the Goldstein case
the court below overlooked the fact that the Court of
Appeals ruled in the Atlas case that an ordinary debt due
the state is not entitled to priority by state law, and it
sustained the priority in that case only on the ground that
the demand was for a tax, the unqualified duty to pay
which was placed by the statute on the seller. This interpretation of the state statute was reaffirmed by that court
in the Matter of Brown PrintingCo., supra. For reasons
already given, the duty imposed upon the seller by the
taxing act thus construed is also a tax within the meaning
of § 64 of the Bankruptcy Act.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS thinks the judgment should be
affirmed for the reasons stated by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.

