OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

313 U. S.

DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY OF INDIANA ET AL.
v. INGRAM-RICHARDSON MANUFACTURING
CO. OF INDIANA, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 655. Argued April 1, 1941.-Decided May 5, 1941.
An Indiana corporation having a factory in that State at which it
manufactured enamel and applied it by heat to metal articles,
obtained through its traveling salesmen from manufacturers in other
States orders for the enameling of metal parts which they used in
the making of stoves and refrigerators; pursuant to which contracts, it transported the parts from the customers' plants to its
own plant, enameled them there, and returned them to the plants
of the customers, doing the transportation by means of its own
trucks. Thereafter it billed the customers for the enameling, and
remittances were made to it by mail. The value of the metal
parts as units after the completion of the enameling process was
from two and one-half to three times the value of the parts before
the enameling. Held:
1. That the income was derived from services, not from sales
of the enamel in interstate commerce. P. 254.
2. The gross receipts from the enameling were taxable by Indiana under its Gross Income Tax Law. P. 254.
3. The transportation was an incident to the' enameling service.
P. 255.
4. If the transportation was an item of service for which deductions should have been allowed in the tax, the taxpayer should
have claimed the deduction and shown its amount. P. 255.
5. The question whether the Indiana tax law allows the taxpayer to claim deductions in his tax return and secure an appor-

tionment of the tax, is a question of state law which this Court

is not called upon to answer, the taxpayer not having presented
it to the state authorities. P. 256.
114 F. 2d 889, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 671, to review a judgment affirming a recovery in a suit for a refund of taxes alleged to
have been unlawfully collected.

DEPT. OF TREASURY v. MFG. CO.
252

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, Deputy Attorney General
of Indiana, with whom Messrs. George N. Beamer, Attorney General, and Joseph W. Hutchinson, Deputy
Attorney General, were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Earl B. Barnes, with whom Messrs. Alan W. Boyd
and CharlesM. Wells were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming the District
Court, has held that respondent, Ingram-Richardson
Manufacturing Company, is entitled to a refund of a tax
levied under the Indiana Gross Income Tax Law,1 upon the
ground of the invalidity of the tax under the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution. 114 F. 2d 889. We
granted certiorari because of an alleged conflict with applicable decisions of this Court.
The tax was for $5410.20 ' and was laid upon respondent's gross receipts derived as follows:
Respondent, an Indiana corporation, has a factory at
Frankfort in that State where it manufactures enamel,
both in a granular form, known as frit, and in a hard, finished form fused with metal articles. In the instant case
the enamel was fused with metal parts used in stoves and
refrigerators manufactured by respondent's customers in
various States other than Indiana. Respondent's traveling salesmen solicited orders from such customers pursuant to which respondent transported by its trucks the
stove and refrigerator parts belonging to its customers
from their plants to its own plant for enameling. There
1Section

2 of Chapter 50 of the Acts of Indiana of 1933. 11

Burns Indiana Statutes, ยง 64-2602. See Department of Treasury v.
Wood Preserving Corp., ante, p. 62.
' The suit also embraced a claim for an additional sum of $1154.26
recovery of which was denied below. That claim is not before us.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the enameling was done by the process set forth in the
findings, and respondent then hauled the enameled parts
back to its customers' factories. Respondent thereafter
billed its customers for the enameling and remittances
were made to respondent by mail. The value of the metal
parts as units after the completion of the enameling process was from two and one-half to three times the value
of the respective parts before the enameling.
Respondent's contention, as set forth in its complaint
and as still asserted, is that these transactions constituted
sales of the hard, finished enamel in interstate commerce.
The Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed with that contention and held that the income in question was derived
from services. We are in accord with that view.
In the alternative, respondent contends that the services paid for included the solicitation of orders by respondent's agents and the execution of contracts in other
States, interstate communications by mail, telephone and
telegraph, and also the transportation by respondent of
the stove and refrigerator parts from and to places in
other States.
The enameling process was an activity performed at
respondent's plant in Indiana and the gross receipts therefrom were taxable by Indiana under its Gross Income Tax
Law. See Department of Treasury v. Wood Preserving
Corp., ante, p. 62. The fact that the orders for the
enameling were obtained by respondent's agents and contracts were executed outside Indiana did not make the
enameling process other than an intrastate activity and
any the less a proper subject for the application of the taxing statute. Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue,
303 U. S. 250,253.
But the court below has held that there was included in
the service rendered by respondent the transportation by
its trucks of the stove and refrigerator parts from and to
the customers' plants in other States. The court thought

DEPT. OF TREASURY v. MFG. CO.
252

Opinion of the Court.

that the reasoning of our opinion in Gwin, White & Prince
v. Henneford,305 U. S. 434, applied. That case, however,
presented a different situation. The business there was
that of a marketing agent for a federation of fruit growers
and the state tax was measured by the gross receipts of
the taxpayer from the business of marketing fruit shipped
from the taxing State to the places of sale in other States
and foreign countries. We found that the entire service
for which the compensation was paid was "in aid of the
shipment and sale of merchandise in that commerce" (interstate and foreign) and hence the service was held to
be within the protection of the commerce clause. Id., p.
437. Here, on the contrary, the entire service was in aid
of the enameling business conducted within the State.
The transportation of the metal parts to and from Indiana
were but incident to that intrastate business, as was the
circulation of appellants' magazine in States other than
the taxing State in the Western Live Stock case, supra,
p. 254.
Moreover, if the transportation of the metal parts
were regarded as an item of service for which a deduction should have been allowed, we think that it was
the duty of respondent, in view of the fact that it was
conducting an intrastate business clearly subject to the
tax, to claim the deduction and show the amount which
should be allowed. It does not appear that respondent
did either. Respondent made its claim for a total
exemption from the tax upon the ground that it was
laid upon interstate sales, a contention which it has
failed to support.
The State contends, citing provisions of the taxing
act, that the legislature of Indiana contemplated that
the taxpayer would reflect in the tax return any deductions claimed, making a separation between taxable
and non-taxable items, and that the tax return itself
provided a method for claiming any deductions to which

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Parties.

313 U. S.

the taxpayer thought itself entitled. Respondent insists that the Act did not provide a method of apportionment. In the absence of an effort on the part of
respondent to present a claim for deduction and to have
the state authorities pass upon the question of deduction
or apportionment, as distinguished from its claim for a
total exemption, we are not called upon to attempt to
resolve the question of state law.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
JENKINS v. KURN ET AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 732.

Argued April 8, 1941.-Decided May 5, 1941.

1. The right of action conferred by the Federal Employers Liability
Act, 45 U. S. C. ยง 51, is not to be burdened with impossible conditions. P. 258.
2. In an action by a locomotive fireman to recover damages for
injuries resulting from a fall alleged to have been due to the negligence of the engineer in failing to apply the brakes after notice that
a train was standing on the track ahead, held that evidence tending to prove that the engineer received a warning from the fireman which, under the circumstances, he should have understood,
was sufficient to go to the jury without further proof that he
actually understood what was said. P. 258.
146 Mo. 904; 144 S. W. 2d 76, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 675, to review a judgment reversing a recovery in an action under the Federal Em-

ployers Liability Act.
Mr. Harry G. Waltner, Jr. for petitioner.
Mr. Frank C. Mann, with whom Mr. Alexander P.
Stewart was on the brief, for respondents.

