HELVERING v. GAMBRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. GAMBRILL.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No.472.

Argued March 6, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. Under § 113 (a) (5) of the Revenue Act of 1928, the basis for
ascertaining gain or loss from the sale of property delivered to the
taxpayer by testamentary trustees is its value when distributed by
the executors to the trustees if the property was owned by the decedent at death, and cost to the trustees if it was purchased by
them. Maguire v. Commissioner, ante, p. 1. P. 13.
2. For the purpose of determining whether property delivered to a
taxpayer by testamentary trustees was "capital assets" within the
capital gains and losses provisions of the Revenue Act of 1928, the
period for which the taxpayer has held the property (although a
remainder interest) dates from the death of the decedent in the case
of property owned by the decedent at death, and from the date of
purchase in the case of property purchased by the trustees. P. 14.
3. "Property held by the taxpayer," as used in § 101 (c) (8) of the
Revenue Act of 1928, embraces not only full ownership but also any
interest whether vested, contingent, or conditional. P. 15.
112 F. 2d 530, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 639, to review the affirmance of a

decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 38 B. T. A. 981,

redetermining a deficiency in income tax.
Miss Helen R. Carloss argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Thomas E. Harris, and Arthur A.

Armstrong were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Allin H. Pierce,with whom Mr. Sidney W. Davidson

was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The questions involved here are in part the same as
those in Maguire v. Commissioner, ante, p. 1. Respond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

ent was a remainderman under a trust created by the
will of his grandmother' who died in 1897. The trust
res, consisting of personalty, was delivered by the executors to themselves as trustees in 1898. The life beneficiary, respondent's mother, died in March, 1928. On
May 5, 1928, the trustees delivered the corpus to respondent as remainderman. Some of the property was
part of the original trust res, and some was purchased by
the trustees both prior to and subsequent to March 1,
1913. During the year 1930 (in February, on May 6,
and in June) respondent sold some of the property in
each group. The Board of Tax Appeals (38 B. T. A.
981) and the Circuit Court of Appeals (112 F. 2d 530)
held: (1) that for the purpose of determining gain or
loss on the sale of the property in question the basis to
respondent by virtue of § 113 (a) (5) of the Revenue Act
of 1928 (45 Stat. 791) was the fair market value of the
property on the date when the corpus was delivered to
1 Respondent

was the sole surviving issue of his mother, Anna
Van Nest Gambrill, and took under the following provisions of his
grandmother's will:
"Ninth. All the residue of my estate of every kind I give and
devise as follows:
'One half thereof in equal shares to my daughters Mary Van Nest
Jackson, Anna Van Nest Gambrill, and Jennie Van Nest Foster, and
my granddaughter, Mary Alice Van Nest absolutely.
'The other half thereof in four equal shares to my executors, to
hold the same in trust, one share for the benefit of each of the same
four persons to wit my said three daughters and my said grand-

daughter and to receive the income and pay the same to her during
her life with full power to invest and reinvest in their discretion

without any limitation whatsoever and at her death to transfer and
deliver the same as she if leaving issue shall by will direct or in the
absence of such direction, to her issue equally, or if she shall leave
no issue, then to the survivors of the said four persons to wit my said
three daughters and my said granddaughter, and to the issue of any

of the said four persons who may have died, the issue to take the
share which the parent would have taken if living.'"

HELVERING v. GAMBRILL.
11

Opinion of the Court.

respondent; and (2) that the property sold in February,
1930 had not been held by the taxpayer for more than
two years and was, therefore, not a capital asset within
the meaning of § 101 (c) of the 1928 Act, while that sold
on May 6 and in June, 1930, had been held by respondent
for more than two years and was therefore a capital
asset.
The rulings on the first question were erroneous. For
the reasons stated in Maguire v, Commissioner, supra,
the basis under § 113 (a) (5) for the property delivered
to respondent by the testamentary trustees was its value
when distributed by the executors to the trustees if the
property was owned by the decedent at her death, and
cost to the trustees if it was purchased by them.
We also disagree with the disposition made of the second question. Capital gains or losses are defined as those
resulting from sales or exchanges of capital assets. § 101
(c) (1) and (2). Capital assets are defined (with exceptions not material here) as "property held by the taxpayer for more than two years." § 101 (c) (8). And
§ 101 (c) (8) (B) provides: "In determining the period
for which the taxpayer has held property however acquired there shall be included the period for which such
property was held by any other person, if under the provisions of section 113, such property has, for the purpose
of determining gain or loss from a sale or exchange, the
'It should, of course, be noted that § 113 (b) provided:
"(b) Property acquired before March 1, 1913.-The basis for determining the gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of property
acquired before March 1, 1913, shall be:
(1) the cost of such property (or, in the case of such property
as is described in subsection (a) (1), (4), (5), or (12) of this section,

the basis as therein provided), or
(2) the fair market value of such property as of March 1, 1913,
whichever is greater. In determining the fair market value of stock
in a corporation as of March 1, 1913, due regard shall be given to
the fair market value of the assets of the corporation as of that date."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

same basis in whole or in part in his hands as it would
have in the hands of such other person."
We are of the view that under these provisions respondent's holding period dates from the decedent's death
for property which she then owned and from the date of
purchase for property purchased by the trustees. In
McFeely v. Commissioner, 296 U. S. 102, this Court held
that a legatee's holding period under § 101 (c) (8) of the
1928 Act dated from the decedent's death for property
owned by the decedent and distributed to the legatee by
the executors, in spite of the fact that the legatee's basis
under § 113 (a) (5) was value at the time of distribution
to him by the executors. The date of acquisition was
held to be the date of death, regardless of the gap between
that date and the date of distribution. And that result
was reached even though some of the taxpayers involved
were residuary legatees whose interests at date of death
were not unconditional. The reasoning.of that case plus
§ 101 (c) (8) (B) make it plain that respondent's interest, albeit a remainder, was acquired at the date of decedent's death for property then owned and at the date
of purchase for property purchased by the trustees. The
continuity in his holding was not broken by the intervening trust. The formal constitution of that trust
though of special significance under § 113 (a) (5) (Maguire v. Commissioner, supra) did not change the basic
quality of his property interest. And the fact that that
interest did not ripen into full and complete ownership
except by the passage of time or the occurrence of subsequent events is inconsequential. For § 101 (c) (8) (B)
provides, as we have seen, that in determining the taxpayer's holding period there shall be included the period
for which the property was held by any other person if
under § 113 the property had the same basis in whole
or in part in the taxpayer's hands as it would have in
the hands of the other person. It is plain that under

HELVERING v. CAMPBELL.
11

Syllabus.

§ 113 the basis to the trustees was the same as the basis
to the taxpayer. Hence the period of their holding is
not to be excluded from the period of the taxpayer's
holding. That makes plain that "property held by the
taxpayer" as used in § 101 (c) (8) embraces not only full
ownership but also any interest whether vested, contingent, or conditional. Otherwise the period of the holding by trustees would not be included in the holding
by a mere remainderman. Hence, as in McFeely v. Commissioner, supra, we look to the time when the taxpayer
first acquired the interest which later ripened into full
ownership. It is plain that for property owned by the
decedent he acquired that interest at her death and that
for property purchased by the trustees he acquired that
interest at the date of purchase.
Reversed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

think

the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons stated
by the court below, 112 F. 2d 530.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. CAMPBELL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 473.

Argued March 6, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. Under § 113 (a) (5) of the Revenue Acts of 1928 and 1932, the
basis for ascertaining gain or loss from the sale of property which
had been delivered to the taxpayer by testamentary trustees is, in
respect to securities owned by the decedent at death and securities
*Together with No. 474, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Knox, and No. 475, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Rogers, also on writs of certiorari, 311 U. S. 639, to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

