80

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

313 U. S.

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES FT AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 577. Argued March 13, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission dismissing a
complaint against an interstate carrier by an individual, charging
unjust and unlawful discrimination in the matter of facilities afforded
him as a passenger on an interstate journey, is reviewable, though
negative in form. P. 92.
2. The right of a colored citizen to complain to the Interstate Commerce Commission of discrimination against him, because of his
race, in the matter of facilities afforded on an interstate railroad
journey, does not depend upon whether he intends to make a similar
journey in the future. P. 93.
3. In the case of a passenger, as in the case of a shipper, it is within
the authority of the Commission to determine whether a discrimination is unjust and unlawful, upon inquiry into the particular
facts and the practice of the carrier in the particular relation.
P. 93.
4. Because of his race, a colored man who had paid a first-class fare
for an interstate journey, and who offered to pay the proper charge
for an available seat in a Pullman car, was compelled, in accordance
with custom, to leave that car and ride in a second-class car, and
was thus denied the standard conveniences afforded first-class passengers. Held:
(1) The discrimination was essentially unjust and violated the
Interstate Commerce Act. P. 94.
(2) Paragraph 1 of ยง 2 of the Act, which declares it unlawful
for any carrier to subject any particular person to any undue or
unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever,
applies to discrimination against colored passengers because of their
race, and requires that colored persons who buy first-class tickets
shall be furnished with accommodations equal in comforts and conveniences to those afforded to first-class white passengers. P. 95.
(3) The fact that there was but one instance of discrimination
in the case of the complainant affords no reason why such discrimination should not be forbidden for the future, P. 96.

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Argument for Appellant.

(4) The fact that there is comparatively little demand for firstclass accommodations for colored people can not justify such discrimination. P. 97.
Reversed.

APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges which dismissed for want of jurisdiction a suit to
set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. 229 I. C. C. 703.
Messrs. Arthur W. Mitchell and Richard E. Westbrooks for appellant.
The appellant was engaged in through interstate travel,
to which the separate coach law of Arkansas was inapplicable. McCabe v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry., 235 U. S.
151, 160; s. c., 186 F. 966. See, also, Louisville, N. 0. & T.
Ry. Co. v. Mississippi, 133 U. S. 587, 590; Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, 179 U. S. 388, 391; Hines v.
Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52.
The Commission disregarded the law as laid down by
this Court and consistently followed by all federal courts,
that the separate coach laws of the several States do not
apply to interstate commerce. Hart v. State, 60 A. 457;
Huff v. Norfolk & Southern Ry. Co., 171 N. C. 203;
Washington, B. & A. Electric R. Co. v. Waller, 289 F.
598, 600.
Smith v. Tennessee, 100 Tenn. 494, and Southern Ry.
Co. v. Norton, 112 Miss. 302, cited by the defendants, have
not been followed or approved.
The power to regulate commerce embraces all the instruments by which such commerce may be conducted;
and when the subject to which the power applies is national in its character, or admits of uniformity of regulation, the power is exclusive of all state authority.
The right of appellant to first-class accommodations
and facilities does not depend upon the volume of traffic.
326252 -41--

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the I. C. C.

313 U. S.

McCabe v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 235 U. S. 151,
161, 162; s. c., 186 F. 966, 977; Buchanan v. Warley, 245
U. S. 60, 74-80; Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada, 305
U. S. 337, 350; United States v. Chicago Heights Trucking Co., 310 U. S. 344, 351, 352.
The record shows that the personal constitutional rights
of the appellant were ruthlessly violated. Personal rights
include personal liberty. Personal rights include the
equal protection of the laws and the right to contract for
first-class services, accommodations and facilities in interstate commerce, and the right to enforce the contract.
Many decisions of the Commission condemn such discrimination as was practiced in this case.
The Interstate Commerce Act provides a comprehensive
system for the regulation of interstate commerce, which
excludes the application of local separate coach laws.
Congress has prohibited discrimination, undue prejudice, unreasonable and undue advantage and preference
in relation to citizens traveling as interstate passengers.
The appellant having suffered direct injury to his
rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws made pursuant thereto has the right to prosecute these proceedings.
Custom does not justify continued unjust discrimination.
Refund of money is not adequate redress for the wrongful exclusion. Brown v. Memphis & C. Ry. Co., 7 F. 51.
The court should take judicial notice of discrimination
against colored people in the lack of facilities on interstate
railroads. Ohio Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n,
301 U. S. 292, 301.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Mr. DanielW. Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellee.
Appellant has failed to show that he has legal interest
in the accommodations to be furnished in the future by

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Argument for the I. C. C.

the Rock Island on its train No. 45. Rochester Tel. Corp.
v. United States, 307 U. S. 125.
Appellant's case before the Commission related solely
to the accommodations furnished to him on a single trip
from Chicago to Hot Springs. He neither alleged nor
submitted evidence to show that he will have occasion or
intends to make a similar trip in the future. In these
circumstances it would seem that recovery of damages, if
any, sustained on his one trip would constitute complete
relief. He has an action at law pending in a state court
for such damages.
He was not authorized to seek avoidance of discrimination against other colored passengers. This Court has
said several times that it "will not listen to a party who
complains of a grievance which is not his." Interstate
Commerce Comm'n v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 218 U. S.
88, 109, and cases cited; Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis S.
W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 149; Avent v. United States, 266
U. S. 127; McCabe v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 235 U. S.
151; Moffat Tunnel League v. United States, 289 U. S.
113; Hines Trustees v. United States, 263 U. S. 143, 148;
Sprunt v. United States, 281 U. S. 249, 254; Pittsburgh &
W. Va. Ry. v. United States, 281 U. S. 479, 486.
The Commission is authorized to award full damages
for any violation of the Act. ยง 16 (1) Interstate Commerce Act; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Ohio Valley Tie Co.,
242 U. S. 288.
The circumstances seem to indicate that appellant's
action at law is based on alleged violation of common law
rights. Such suits have been maintained in several instances; in none was it held that an administrative determination by the Commission was necessary. Chiles
v. Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co., 218 U. S. 71; Washington,
B. & A. Electric R. Co. v. Waller, 289 F. 598; Huff v.
Norfolk-S. R. Co., 88 S. E. 344.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the I. C. C.

- 313 U. S.

The defendants urged that the complaint was insufficient to raise any issue as to practice, since the complaint
mentions but a single instance of alleged discrimination
and prejudice, and that one instance does not amount to
a practice.
Section 13 (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act provides that no complaint shall at any time be dismissed
because of the absence of direct damage to the complainant. Cf., Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baird, 194
U. S. 25, 39.
But the right of an individual or of an association or
league to prosecute proceedings before the Commission
does not in itself confer the right to maintain judicial proceedings to set aside the Commission's order and the
corollary right to take a direct appeal to this Court.
Hines Trustees v. United States, 263 U. S. 143, 148;
Pittsburgh& W. Va. Ry. v. United States, 281 U. S. 479.
See also Sprunt v. United States, 281 U. S. 249, 256-257;
Algoma Coal Co. v. United States, 11 F. Supp. 487, 495496; United States v. Merchants Assn., 242 U. S. 178, 188.
The Commission's findings are fully supported by the
evidence.
Not all discriminations are unlawful under the Interstate Commerce Act but only those that are undue, unreasonable, or unjust. Whether a discrimination is undue,
unreasonable, or unjust is a question of fact for the Commission. Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 162 U. S. 197; ManufacturersRy. Co. v. United
States, 246 U. S. 457, 481; Nashville Ry. v. Tennessee,
262 U. S. 318; United States v. Trucking Co., 310 U. S. 344.
In determining appellant's case the Commission properly gave consideration to the national transportation
policy, which has for its purpose the maintenance of adequate transportation service. It was within its power,
and therefore not in excess of its authority, to decline to
issue an order, operating indefinitely and permanently in

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Argument for the I. C. C.

the future, the effect of which would be to require the
carrier to provide facilities which appellant has not shown
he will ever use, at an expense widely disproportionate to
the demand for such facilities, and the revenue to be derived therefrom, in the face of the undisputed evidence
that negro passengers purchasing first-class tickets are
seated in the drawing rooms of Pullman cars, at the regular seat fare, and that ordinarily such facilities are ample
to take care of the colored demand. Cf. Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R., 257 U. S. 563, 585;
New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 189-190;
United States v. Louisiana,290 U. S. 70, 75; Dayton-Goose
Creek Ry. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456; Texas v. United
States, 292 U. S. 530, 531; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266; Piedmont & Nor.
Ry. v. United States, 280 U. S. 469; 286 U. S. 299; Atchison Ry. v. Railroad Comm'n, 283 U. S. 380; Florida v.
UnitedStates, 292 U. S. 1, 6-7.
The Interstate Commerce Act neither requires nor prohibits segregation.
The evidence submitted to the Commission was very
narrow in its scope. It did not disclose general conditions.; it related almost entirely to one train of one railroad. The Commission obviously could not lawfully issue an order having general application, upon the narrow
record before it.
The general question whether segregation is to be abolished in all sections of the country where it is now practiced-the South and the Southwest-would seem to be
one appropriately for determination by Congress.
The Commission's order contravenes no constitutional
provision. New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591,
600-601.
The question of segregation is not here involved.
Councill v. W. & A. R. Co., 1 I. C. C. 399, 345; Heard v.
Georgia R. Co., 1 I. C. C. 428; 3 I. C. C. 111; Edwards v.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Carriers.

313 U. S.

Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co., 12 I. C. C. 247; Gaines v.
S. A. L. Ry., 16 I. C. C. 471. See also Cozart v. Southern
Ry. Co., 16 I. C. C. 226; Crosby v. St. Louis-S.. Ry. Co.
112 I. C. C. 239, and Harden v. Pullman Co., 120 I. C. C.
359.
The question of the applicability of the Arkansas segregation statute to interstate passengers, and of its constitutionality if so applicable, is not necessarily presented
for decision in this case. See Louisville, N. 0. & T. R.
Co. v. Mississippi, 133 U. S. 587; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co. v. Kentucky, 179 U. S. 388; McCabe v. Atchison, T.
& S. F. R. Co., 235 U. S. 151; Chiles v. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 71; Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 540;
Hall v. DeCuir,95 U. S. 485.
Many decisions of the Commission recognize the right
of interstate carriers to require segregation.
As to the applicability of state segregation statutes to
interstate commerce, see Hall v. DeCuir, supra; McCabe
v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 186 F. 966, 972; 235 U. S.
151; Hart v. State, 60 A. 457, 462; Washington, B. & A.
Electric R. Co. v. Waller, 289 F. 598; Smith v. State, 46
S. W. 566; Alabama & V. Ry. Co. v. Morris, 60 So. 11;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Norton, 73 So. 1.; Southern Ry. Co. v.
Primrose,73 So. 2.
Mr. Wallace T. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Vernon W.
Foster, Marcus L. Bell, E. C. Craig, C. S. Williston, and
Erwin W. Roemer were on the brief, for Frank 0. Lowden,
et al., appellees.
The judicial function is exhausted when there is found
to be a rational basis for the conclusions approved by the
administrative body. Rochester Tel. Corp. v. United
States, 307 U. S. 125, 146.
Appellant's acceptance of the constitutionality of the
Arkansas separate-coach statute removes the Fourteenth
Amendment and the Civil Rights Act from the case, and
their discussion by appellant thus becomes irrelevant.

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Argument for Carriers.

Whether or not the Arkansas separate-coach statute
applies to an interstate passenger is of no importance,
unless it can be found to have controlled the Commission's
decision to the exclusion of its own administrative judgment. An analysis shows that, while the Commission
took notice of the statute, it dealt with the question of
accommodations within the terms of the Interstate Commerce Act. The question of an undue or unreasonable
preference or prejudice being one of fact and not of law,
the Commission's decision that the present accommodations furnished colored passengers on the train involved
meet the requirements of the Interstate Commerce Act
is conclusive.
The several court decisions cited by appellant to support his contention that the Arkansas law does not apply
to an interstate passenger are not pertinent, for none of
them dealt with a proceeding in which the Interstate Commerce Commission had previously exercised its statutory
power. They called for a different judicial power from
that invoked here. This case involves merely a request
by appellant for an administrative ruling from a body
whose limits of jurisdiction he was bound to know. Besides, the cited cases do not establish finally that a State
may not adopt a legislative policy, in the exercise of its
police power, for the preservation of the public peace and
order, even though such a policy may incidentally affect
interstate commerce, in the absence of Congressional action occupying the same field. The Congress has enacted
no legislation prohibiting the separation of races on interstate journeys.
Appellees provide accommodations which, the Commission finds, meet the requirements of the Interstate Commerce Act. The Commission has not made mere volume
of business the test of a right, but has merely permitted
volume of business to determine the reasonableness of
the capacity of accommodations furnished. This is properly within the expert discretion of the regulating body.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U.S.

Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs. Warner W. Gardner and Frank Coleman for the United States, filed a
memorandum against the judgment below.
Messrs. Jack Holt, Attorney General of Arkansas;
Thomas S. Lawson, Attorney General of Alabama, and
Silas C. Garrett,III, Assistant Attorney General; J. Tom
Watson, Attorney General of Florida, and Lewis W. Petteway, Assistant Attorney General; Ellis Arnall, Attorney
General of Georgia, and Linton S. Johnson, Assistant
Attorney General; Hubert Meredith, Attorney General
of Kentucky; Eugene Stanley, Attorney General of Louisiana; Greek L. Rice, Attorney General of Mississippi;
W. F. Barry, Solicitor General of Tennessee; Gerald C.
Mann, Attorney General of Texas; and Abram P. Staples,
Attorney General of Virginia, filed a brief on behalf of
the States of Arkansas, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia, as amici curiae. Messrs. Hubert Meredith, Attorney General, and M. B. Holifield, Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief on behalf of the State of Kentucky, as
amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellant, Arthur W. Mitchell, filed a complaint with
the Interstate Commerce Commission alleging an unjust
discrimination in the furnishing of accommodations to
colored passengers on the line of the Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Railway Company from Chicago to Hot
Springs, Arkansas, in violation of the Interstate Commerce Act. The Commission dismissed the complaint
(229 I. C. C. 703) and appellant brought this suit to
set aside the Commission's order. Upon a hearing before three judges, the District Court found the facts as
stated in the Commission's findings, and held that the
latter were supported by substantial evidence and that

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission's order was supported by its findings.
The court then ruled that it was without jurisdiction,
and its disrmssal of the complaint was stated to be upon
that ground. The case comes here on direct appeal.
28 U. S. C. 47a.
The following facts were found by the Commission:
Appellant, a Negro resident of Chicago, and a member
of the House of Representatives of the United States,
left Chicago for Hot Springs on the evening of April 20,
1937, over the lines of the Illinois Central Railroad Company to Memphis, Tennessee, and the Rock Island
beyond, traveling on a round-trip ticket he had purchased at three cents per mile. He had requested a bedroom on the Chicago-Hot Springs Pullman sleeping car
but none being available he was provided with a compartment as far as Memphis in the sleeper destined to
New Orleans. Just before the train reached Memphis,
on the morning after leaving Chicago, he had a Pullman
porter transfer him to the Chicago-Hot Springs sleeper
on the same train. Space was there available and the
porter assigned him a particular seat in that car for
which he was to pay the established fare of'ninety cents.
Shortly after leaving Memphis and crossing the Mississippi River into Arkansas, the train conductor took
up the Memphis-Hot Springs portion of his ticket but
refused to accept payment for the Pullman seat from
Memphis and, in accordance with custom, compelled
hin over his protest and finally under threat of arrest
to move into the car provided for colored passengers.
This was in purported compliance with an Arkansas
statute requiring segregation of colored from white persons by the use of cars or partitioned sections providing
"equal, but separate and sufficient accommodations" for
both races. Later the conductor returned the portion
of the ticket he had taken up and advised appellant that
he could get a refund on the basis of the coach fare of

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

two cents per mile from Memphis. That refund was
not claimed from defendants and was not sought before
the Commission, but it was found that the carriers stood
ready to make it upon application. Appellant has an
action at law pending against defendants in Cook
County, Illinois, for damages incident to his transfer.
The Commission further found that the Pullman car
contained ten sections of berths and two compartment
drawing rooms; that the use of one of the drawing rooms
would have amounted to segregation under the state
law and ordinarily such combinations are available to
colored passengers upon demand, the ninety cent fare
being applicable. Occasionally they are used by colored
passengers but in this instance both drawing rooms were
already occupied by white passengers. The Pullman
car was of modern design and had all the usual facilities
and conveniences found in standard sleeping cars. It
was air-conditioned, had hot and cold running water
and separate flushable toilets for men and women. It
was in excellent condition throughout. First-class white
passengers had, in addition to the Pullman sleeper, the
exclusive use of the train's only dining-car and only
observation-parlor car, the latter having somewhat the
same accommodations for day use as the Pullman car.
The coach for colored passengers, though of standard
size and steel construction, was "an old combination
affair," not air-conditioned, divided by partitions into
three main parts, one for colored smokers, one for white
smokers and one in the center for colored men and
women, known as the women's section, in which appellant sat. There was a toilet in each section but only
the one in the women's section was equipped for flushing and it was for the exclusive use of colored women.
The car was without wash basins, soap, towels or running
water, except in the women's section. The Commission
stated that, according to appellant, the car was, "filthy

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Opinion of the Court.

and foul smelling," but that the testimony of defendants' witnesses was to the contrary.
The Commission found that in July, 1937, about three
months after complainant's journey above mentioned,
the old combination coach was replaced by a modern,
all-steel, air-conditioned coach, which was divided by a
partition into two sections, one for colored and the other
for white passengers, and had comfortable seats. In
each section there are wash basins, running hot and cold
water, "and separate flush toilets for men and women."
This coach, the Commission said, was "as fully desirable
in all its appointments as the coach used entirely by
white passengers traveling at second-class fares."
The Commission also found that the demand of colored passengers for Pullman accommodations over the
route in question was shown to have been negligible for
many years; that "only about one negro to twenty white
passengers rides this train from and to points on the
line between Memphis and Hot Springs," and there is
hardly ever a demand from a colored passenger for Pullman accommodations. The conductor estimated that
this demand did not amount to one per year. What demand there may have been at ticket offices did not
appear.
The Commission's conclusion was thus stated: "The
present coach properly takes care of colored second-class
passengers, and the drawing rooms and compartments in
the sleeper provide proper Pullman accommodations for
colored first-class passengers, but there are no diningcar nor observation-parlor car accommodations for the
latter, and they cannot lawfully range through the
train."
The Commission, though treating the enforcement of
the state law as a matter for state authorities, thought
that in deciding the case on the facts presented it must
recognize that the state law required the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

to segregate colored passengers; that in these circumstances the present colored-passenger coach and the Pullman drawing rooms met the requirements of the Act;
and that as there was comparatively little colored traffic
and no indication that there was likely to be such, demand for dining-car and observation-parlor car accommodations by colored passengers as to warrant the
running of any extra cars or the construction of partitions, the discrimination and prejudice was "plainly not
unjust or undue." The Commission observed that it was
only differences in treatment of the latter character that
were "unlawful and within the power of this Commission to condemn, remove and prevent."
From the dismissal of the complaint, five Commissioners dissented.
The United States as a party to this suit to set aside
the Commission's order, and one of the appellees, does
not support the judgment of the court below and has
filed a memorandum stating its reasons. The Government concludes that the Commission erroneously supposed that the Arkansas Separate Coach Law applied
to an interstate passenger and erroneously determined
that the small number of colored passengers asking
for first-class accommodations justified an occasional
discrimination against them because of their race.
The other appellees-the Interstate Commerce Commission and the carriers-appear in support of the
judgment.
First. The Commission challenges the standing of appellant to bring this suit. We find the objection untenable. This question does not touch the merits of the
suit, but merely the authority of the District Court to
entertain it. The fact that the Commission's order was
one of dismissal of appellant's complaint did not foreclose the right of review. Appellant was an aggrieved
party and the negative form of the order is not control-

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Opinion of the Court.

ling. Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307
U. S. 125, 143.
Nor is it determinative that it does not appear that
appellant intends to make a similar railroad journey.
He is an American citizen free to travel, and he is entitled to go by this particular route whenever he chooses
to take it and in that event to have facilities for his journey without any discrimination against him which the
Interstate Commerce Act forbids. He presents the question whether the Act does forbid the conduct of which
he complains.
The question of appellant's right to seek review of
the Commission's order thus involves the primary question of administrative authority, that is, whether appellant took an appropriate course in seeking a ruling of the
Commission. The established function of the Commission gives the answer. The determination whether a
discrimination by an interstate carrier is unjust and unlawful necessitates an inquiry into particular facts and
the practice of the carrier in a particular relation, and
this underlying inquiry is precisely that which the Commission is authorized to make. As to the duty to seek
a determination by the Commission in such a case, we
do not see that a passenger would be in any better situation than a shipper. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506; Mitchell Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S. 247; Morrisdale Coal
Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 230 U. S. 304; General American Tank Car Corp. v. El Dorado Terminal Co., 308
U. S. 422.
The District Court had jurisdiction to review the action of the Commission and the question on that review
was whether that action was in accordance with the
applicable law.
Second. The case was submitted to the District Court
upon the evidence taken before the Commission. The

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

undisputed facts showed conclusively that, having paid
a first-class fare for the entire journey from Chicago to
Hot Springs, and having offered to pay the proper charge
for a seat which was available in the Pullman car for
the trip from Memphis to Hot Springs, he was compelled,
in accordance with custom, to leave that car and to ride
in a second-class car and was thus denied the standard
conveniences and privileges afforded to first-class passengers. This was manifestly a discrimination against
him in the course of his interstate journey and admittedly that discrimination was based solely upon the fact
that he was a Negro. The question whether this was a
discrimination forbidden by the Interstate Commerce
Act is not a question of segregation 1 but one of equality
of treatment. The denial to appellant of equality of accommodations because of his race would be an invasion
of a fundamental individual right which is guaranteed
against state action by the Fourteenth Amendment (McCabe v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 235 U. S. 151, 160162; Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada,305 U. S. 337, 344,
345) and in view of the nature of the right and of our
constitutional policy it cannot be maintained that the
discrimination as it was alleged was not essentially unjust. In that aspect it could not be deemed to lie outside the purview of the sweeping prohibitions of the
Interstate Commerce Act.
We have repeatedly said that it is apparent from the
legislative history of the Act that not only was the evil
of discrimination the principal thing aimed at, but that
there is no basis for the contention that Congress intended to exempt any discriminatory action or practice
of interstate carriers affecting interstate commerce which
it had authority to reach. The Shreveport Case, 234
1

In this view, we have no occasion to consider the questions discussed by the Attorneys General of several States in their briefs as

amici curiae.

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 342, 356; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 740, 749, 750; Merchants Warehouse
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501, 512, 513. Paragraph
1 of ยง 3 of the Act says explicitly that it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the Act "to subject any particular person . . . to any undue or
unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect
whatsoever." 49 U. S. C. 3. From the inception of its
administration the Interstate Commerce Commission has
recognized the applicability of this provision to discrimination against colored passengers because of their race
and the duty of carriers to provide equality of treatment
with respect to transportation facilities; that is, that colored persons who buy first-class tickets must be furnished
with accommodations equal in comforts and conveniences
to those afforded to first-class white passengers. See'
Councill v. Western & Atlantic R. Co., 1 I. C. C. 339;
Heard v. Georgia R. Co., 1 I. C. C. 428; Heard v. Georgia R. Co., 3 I. C. C. 111; Edwards v. Nashville, C. & St.
L. Ry. Co., 12 I. C. C. 247; Cozart v. Southern Ry. Co.,
16 I. C. C. 226; Gaines v. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co., 16
I. C. C. 471; Crosby v. St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co.,

112 I. C. C.

239.2

Third. We find no sound reason for the failure to apply
this principle by holding the discrimination from which
the appellant suffered to be unlawful and by forbidding
it in the future.
'In Edwards v. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 12 I. C. C. 247,
249, the principle was thus stated: "If a railroad provides certain
facilities and accommodations for first-class passengers of the white
race, it is commanded by the law that like accommodations shall be
provicfed for colored passengers of the same class. The principle
that must govern is that carriers must serve equally well all passengers, whether white or colored, paying the same fare. Failure to
do this is discrimination and subjects the passenger to 'undue and

unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

That there was but a single instance was not a justification of the treatment of the appellant. Moreover,
the Commission thought it plain that "the incident was
mentioned as representative of an alleged practice that
was expected to continue." And the Commission found
that the ejection of appellant from the Pullman car and
the requirement that he should continue his journey in
a second-class car was "inaccordance with custom," that
is, as we understand it, according to the custom which
obtained in similar circumstances.
Nor does the change in the carrier's practice avail.
That did not alter the discrimination to which appellant
had been subjected, and as to the future the change was
not adequate. It appears that since July, 1937, the carrier has put. in service a coach for colored passengers
which is of equal quality with that used by second-class
white passengers. But, as the Government well ob-,
serves, the question does not end with travel on secondclass tickets. It does not appear that colored passengers who have bought first-class tickets for transportation by the carrier are given accommodations which are
substantially equal to those afforded to white passengers.
The Government puts the matter succinctly: "When a
drawing room is available, the carrier practice of allow
ing colored passengers to use one at Pullman seat rates
avoids inequality as between the accommodations specifically assigned to the passenger. But when none is
available, as on the trip which occasioned this litigation,
the discrimination and inequality of accommodation become self-evident. It is no answer to say that the colored passengers, if sufficiently diligent and forehanded,
can make their reservations so far in advance as "to be
assured of first-class accommodations. So long as white
passengers can secure first-class reservations on the day
of travel and the colored passengers cannot, the latter
are subjected to inequality and discrimination because

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
80

Opinion of the Court.

of their race." And the Commission has recognized
that inequality persists with respect to certain other
facilities such as dining-car and observation-parlor
car accommodations.
We take it that the chief reason for the Commission's
action was the "comparatively little colored traffic." But
the comparative volume of traffic cannot justify the denial
of a fundamental right of equality of treatment, a right
specifically safeguarded by the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act. We thought a similar argument
with respect to volume of traffic to be untenable in the
application of the Fourteenth Amendment. We said that
it made the constitutional right depend upon the number
of persons who may be discriminated against, whereas the
essence of that right is that it is a personal one. McCabe
v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., supra. While the supply
of particular facilities may be conditioned upon there
being a reasonable demand therefor, if facilities are provided, substantial equality of treatment of persons traveling under like conditions cannot be refu~ed. It is the
individual, we said, who is entitled to the equal protection
of the laws,-not merely a group of individuals, or a body
of persons according to their numbers. Id. See, also,
Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada,pp. 350, 351. And the
Interstate Commerce Act expressly extends its prohibitions to the subjecting of "any particular person" to unreasonable discriminations.
On the facts here presented, there is no room, as the
Government properly says, for administrative or expert
judgment with respect to practical difficulties. It is
enough that the discrimination shown was palpably
unjust and forbidden by the Act.
The decree of the District Court is reversed and the
cause is remanded with directions to set aside the order
of the Commission and to remand the case to the Commission for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
326252-41-7

