UNITED STATES v. RESLER.
33

Syllabus.

consider the contention that the Sherman Act can never
apply to a labor union, because of long standing decisions of this Court to the contrary, a construction which
Congress had not seen fit to change. See Apex Hosiery
Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, 487, 488.
In view of our earlier decisions and of the serious consequences to the administration of justice if courts are
powerless to stop, summarily, obstructions like the present, I think the responsibility of departing from the long
accepted construction of this statute should be left to
the legislative branch of the Government, to which it
rightfully belongs.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concur

in this opinion.
UNITED STATES v. RESLER, DOING BUSINESS AS

RESLER TRUCK LINE AND AS BRADY TRUCK
LINE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 616. Argued March 14, 1941.-Decided April 14, 1941.
1. Section 212 (b) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, which subjects to the rules and regulations of the Interstate Commerce
Commission transfers of certificates and permits, applies to a
transfer of operating rights though not more than twenty motor
vehicles are involved, notwithstanding the provision of § 213 (e)
that "the provisions of this section requiring authority from the
Commission for consolidation, merger, purchase, lease, operating
contract, or acquisition of control shall not apply where the total
number of motor vehicles involved is not more than twenty." P. 59.
2. Under the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, the Interstate Commerce
Commission had authority to promulgate a rule making approval by the Commission prerequisite to an effective transfer
of operating rights. P. 59.
Reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment sustaining a special plea in bar to an information
charging violation of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935.

Mr. Fowler Hamilton, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
James C. Wilson and S. R. Brittingham,Jr. were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Harry S. Silverstein submitted for appellee.
MR. JUsTIcE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This appeal presents two important questions affecting
the administration of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935 (49
Stat. 543). The first is whether § 213 (e) places beyond
reach of § 212 (b) transfers of operating rights where not
more than twenty vehicles are involved. The second is
whether the Interstate Commerce Commission possessed
statutory authority to rule that assent of the Commission is a condition precedent to an effective transfer
which is subject to § 212 (b).
In July, 1940, the United States filed an information
against appellee charging that he had engaged in interstate motor carrier operations over a specified route in
Colorado without a certificate of public convenience and
necessity required by § 206 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act
of 1935. Appellee filed a special plea in bar alleging in
substance that he had not violated §206 (a) because he
had acquired the requisite certificate from one Brady to
whom it had been issued originally, and that the approval
of the Interstate Commerce Commission was not necessary to validate that transfer. The District Court sustained this plea, and the United States appealed directly
to this court, 34 Stat. 1246, 18 U. S. C. §682. Counsel
for appellant and appellee have stipulated that not more
than twenty vehicles were involved in the transfer from

UNITED STATES v. RESLER.
57

Opinion of the Court.

Brady to appellee, and that the Interstate Commerce
Commission has not approved that transfer.
The transfer is governed by § 212 (b). That section
provides: "Except as provided in section 213, any certificate or permit may be transferred pursuant to such
rules and regulations as the [Interstate Commerce] Commission may prescribe." Section 213, regulating consolidations, mergers, and other acquisitions of control of
motor carriers, provides in subsection (e) that ". . . the
provisions of this section requiring authority from the
Commission for consolidation, merger, purchase, lease,
operating contract, or acquisition of control shall not
apply where the total number of motor vehicles involved
is not more than twenty."
The obvious sense of § 212 (b) could hardly be expressed more aptly than in the language quoted. Section
213 (e) is equally explicit. Read together, the two sections can mean only that a transfer involving not more
than twenty vehicles is governed by § 212 (b) and the
regulations enacted pursuant to it. The phrase "Except
as provided in § 213" was intended to remove from the
sweep of § 212 (b) only those transfers which were within
the compass of § 213. It was never intended to place
beyond reach of § 212 (b) the transfers which § 213 (e)
expressly placed beyond reach of § 213.
Notwithstanding the fact that the instant transfer is
subject to § 212 (b), appellee challenges the Commission's authority to enact Rule 1 (d) which provides: "No
attempted transfer of any operating right shall be effective except upon full compliance with these rules and
regulations and until after the Interstate Commerce
Commission has approved such transfer as herein provided. . .".. Order of July 1, 1938, 3 Fed. Reg. 2157.
Power to make rules regulating the transfers embraced
in § 212 (b) derives from the phrase in that section "pursuant to such rules and regulations as the Commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

may prescribe," and from § 204 (a) (6) which makes it
the duty of the Commission to administer, execute, and
enforce all provisions of [the Motor Carrier Act], to
make all necessary orders in connection therewith, and to
prescribe rules, regulations, and procedure for such administration. . . ." Undoubtedly the power to prescribe
regulations is not unlimited, but neither section provides
or implies that the Commission is without authority to
rule that parties to a proposed transfer which is governed
by § 212 (b) must first obtain the consent of the Commission. Indeed, the conclusion is inescapable that such
a rule is clearly within the regulatory power which Congress intended to confer on the Commission, for Congress could insure effective enforcement of other sections
of the Act only by granting the Commission power to
enact regulations broad enough to authorize Rule 1 (d).
Sections 213 (a) and 213 (b) carefully provide in detail
for the regulation of transfers of operating rights by
merger, consolidation, or by other specified means. Section 213 (a) (1) expressly stipulates that the approval of
the Commission must precede a transfer which is subject
to § 213. Manifestly, the administration of §§ 213 (a)
and 213 (b) would be seriously hampered if the Commission were powerless to make the same requirement with
respect to transfers subject to § 212 (b), particularly
since the number of vehicles involved may determine
which section is applicable.
In many respects a transferee such as appellee stands
in the same relation to the Commission as an original
applicant for permission to operate. Many inquiries
which are relevant to the initial application are equally
relevant to the proposed transfer. Section 206 (a), with
immaterial exceptions, permits common carriers by
motor vehicles to operate only if the carrier has first obtained a certificate of public convenience and necessity.
Section 207 (a) expressly conditions issuance of the cer-

UNITED STATES v. RESLER.
57

Opinion of the Court.

tificate on findings by the Commission that the applicant
is "fit, willing, and able properly to perform the service
proposed and to conform to the provisions of [the Motor
Carrier Act] and the requirements, rules, and regulations
of the Commission thereunder, and that the proposed
service, to the extent to be authorized by the certificate,
is or will be required by the present or future public convenience and necessity." Plainly the finding of the
requisite fitness, willingness, and ability of the first applicant is wholly inapplicable to his proposed transferee
(see Rule 2 (c), 3 Fed. Reg. 2158), and the operations inceptively authorized no longer may serve public convenience and necessity because conditions have changed.
See Rule 6, 3 Fed. Reg. 2158; compare §§ 208 (a), 212 (a).
It is evident that full enforcement of §§ 206 (a) and
207 (a) likewise would be impeded if the Commission
lacked power to rule that its consent must precede a
transfer subject to § 212 (b). 1
We conclude that the Commission acted within its authority to prescribe rules and regulations to implement
§ 212 (b) in ruling that its consent was a condition precedent to an effective transfer governed by that section.
It was not compelled to contest the legality or propriety
of such a transfer after it had been completed.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and
the cause is remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
'Absent such power, the Commission would encounter similar
difficulties in the administration of other sections. Section 215 requires the Commission to withhold a certificate until the carrier has
complied with Commission regulations exacting security for damage
to persons and property. Section 217 compels specified carriers to
file tariff schedules. Section 221 obligates motor carriers to file
written designations of agents for service of process and Commission
orders.
See also §§ 220, 223.

