DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
Syllabus.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 58.

Argued November 17, 1941.-Decided December 15, 1941.

1. One does not acquire a domicile in the District of Columbia, within
the meaning of the District of Columbia Income Tax Act, merely
by coming to the Distriqt to live for an indefinite period while in
the Government service. P. 453.
2. The Act does not intend that one living in the District of Columbia indefinitely, while in the Government service, shall be held
domiciled there simply because he does not maintain a domestic
establishment at the place from which he came. P. 454.
3. Persons are domiciled hk the District of Columbia, within the
meaning of the Act, who live there and have no fixed and definite
intent to return to their former domiciles and make their homes
there. P. 454.
4. The place where a man lives is, prima facie, his domicile. P. 455.
5. The taxing authority is warranted in treating as prima facie taxable any person quartered in the District of Columbia on tax day
whose status it deems doubtful. P. 455.
6. In applying this Act, the taxing authority need not find the
exact time when the attitude and relationship of person to place
which constitute domicile were formed. It is enough that they
were formed before the tax day. P. 455.
7. If one has at any time become domiciled in the District of Columbia, it is his burden to establish any change of status upon which
he relies to escape the tax. P. 456.
8. In order to retain his former domicile, one who comes to the
District to perform Government service must always have a fixed
and definite intent to return and to take up his home there when
separated from the service. A mere sentimental attachment will
not hold the old domicile. P. 456.
9. Whether or not one votes where he claims domicile is highly relevant but not controlling. P. 456.
* Together with No. 59, District of Columbia v. DeHart, also on
writ of certiorari, 313 U. S. 556, to the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Petitioner.

314 U. S.

10. Of great significance to the question of domicile in the District
of Columbia is the nature of the position which brings one to or
keeps him in the service of the Government. P. 457.
11. Manner of living in the District and many other considerations
touching relationships, social connections and activities of the
person concerned, are suggested in the opinion as among the considerations which are relevant to a determination of the question
of domicile. P. 457.
73 App. D. C. 345, 347, 119 F. 2d 449, 451, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 556, to review judgments sustaining, on petitions for review, decisions of the Board of
Tax Appeals for the District of Columbia holding that
collections of income taxes from two individuals by the
District of Columbia were erroneous.

Mr. Glenn Simmon, with whom Messrs. Richmond B.
Keech and Vernon E. West Were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Respondents came to reside in the District in 1914 and
1935. Since that time they have had no other homes or
dwelling places. When a person has only one home, that
is his domicile. Restatement, Conflict of Laws, c. 2, § 12,
p. 24; Beale, Conflict of Laws, § 19.2; 9 R. C. L. 538; Texas
v. Florida,306 U. S. 398; Jacobs, Law of Domicile, § 70,
p. 113, § 72, p. 120; Kennan on Residence and Domicile,
§ 16, p. 37; Goodrich on Conflict of Laws, § 25.
Where one lives is prima facie his domicile, and the burden of disproving this is on him who denies it. Anderson
v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694; Ennis v. Smith, 14 How. 400,423;
Newman v. U. S. ex rel. FrizzeU, 43 App. D. C. 53; Bradstreet v. Bradstreet,18 D. C. Rep. (7 Mackey) 229; Gallagher v. Gallagher,214 S. W. 516; Dodd v. Dodd, 15 S. W.
2d 686; Harrisonv. Harrison,117 Md. 607; 9 R. C. L. 541,
557; Restatement, Conflict of Laws, c. 2, § 12, p. 24; Story,
Conflict of Laws, 8th ed., § 46; Kennan, § 172, p. 327;
Dicey, Law of Domicile, p. 9.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
441

Argument for Petitioner.

The Board of Tax Appeals found as a fact that respondents intended to remain and make their homes in the
District for an indefinite period. The findings were accepted by the Court of Appeals and domicile in the District
follows as a matter of law. Story, § 46; Gilbertv. David,
235 U. S. 561; Mitchell v. United States, 21 Wall. 350;
Rosenberg v. Commissioner, 59 App. D. C. 178; Newman
v. U. S. ex rel. Frizze l, supra; Ringgold v. Barley, 5 Md.
186; Klutts v. Jones, 21 N. M. 720; Felker v. Henderson,
102 A. 623; Beale, § 19.1; Kennan, § 127, p. 257.
The intention to return to the domicile of nativity, or
one acquired, must be fixed, absolute, and unconditional.
A mere floating intention to return at some future period
or upon the happening of some uncertain event is not sufficient. The intent to return must not depend upon
inclination or be controlled by future events. Sparks v.
Sparks, 114 Tenn. 666; Story, Conflict of Laws, 8th Ed.,
§ 46; cf., Beale, Conflict of Laws, § 18.1.
The intention required for the acquisition of a domicile
of choice is an intention to make a home in fact, and not
an intention to acquire a domicile. Restatement, Conflict of Laws, c. 2, § 19, p. 38. See, also, Mitchell v. United
States, 21 Wall. 350; Texas v. Florida,306 U. S. 398; Feehan v. Trefry, 237 Mass. 169; Beale, Conflict of Laws,
§ 19.2; Dickinson v. Inhabitants of Brookline, 181 Mass.
195. See Jacobs, § 148, pp. 213-215.
The exercise of the elective franchise may be outweighed
by other circumstances. 19 C. J. 436, 437; Gaddie v.
Mann, 147 F. 955; Bradstreet v. Bradstreet, supra; In re
Sedgwick, 223 F. 655; In're Trowbridge's Estate, 266 N.
Y. 283 ;Feehanv. Trefry, supra;Dickinsonv. Inhabitants
of Brookline, supra; Wagner v. Scurlock, 166 Md. 284;
Kennan, § 78, pp. 158-161; Wharton, Conflict of Laws,
§ 63.
Exercise of the right of suffrage is of much greater
weight in the case of removal from State to State than
in the case of removal from a State to the District.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Respondents.

314 U. S.

The domicile of an employee of the Federal Government for purposes of taxation should be determined by
the rules applicable to persons in private employment.
Cf., Sweeney v. District of Columbia, 72 App. D. C. 30,
310 U. S. 631.
Individuals are under no compulsion to accept federal
employment or reside in the District of Columbia. Government employees residing in the District are not taxable in their respective States of former residence upon
income earned in the District. Domicile in the District
is not inconsistent with political status in one of the
States. Most Government employees remain in the
District after retirement.
The legislative history of the Act reveals Congressional
intent consistent with these views.
Mr. Harry Raymond Turkel for respondents.
The Act was not intended to apply to federal employees in the District unless they had abandoned their
domiciles in the States.
The domicile of a federal employee in the District is
not to be determined by the rules applicable to persons
in private employment. Sweeney v. District of Columbia, 72 App. D. C. 30, cert. denied, 310 U. S. 631.
An individual may have but one domicile. Williamson v. Osenton, 232 U. S. 619, 625.
The rule that the federal employee is entitled to retain
his State domicile (Sweeney case, supra) is supported by
the clear weight of judicial authority, by many instances
of Congressional recognition in principle, and by the
long-established custom and practice of other officials
and departments.
See citations and footn9tes in
Sweeney v. District of Columbia, 72 App. D. C. 30, 37.
The rule is of ancient origin. Bruce v. Bruce, 2
Bosanquet & Puller 229, and Atherton v. Thornton, 8
N. H. 178.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
441

Opinion of the Court.

Practically all States have provisions, in their constitutions or laws, requiring domicile as a condition to
exercise of the franchise, and providing that absence in
the Government service does not prevent loss of "residence."
If this Court confirms the common-law doctrine that
domicile is indivisible, and at the same time rules that
federal employees are domiciled in the District, it will
deprive federal employees of their franchise in the
States.
The decision of the court below was equitable because
it avoided double taxation. A reversal of it would deprive at least 24 States of the right to tax federal employees in the District domiciled in those States, and
would subject federal employees from the States to
double taxation.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases, which have been argued together, differ
somewhat in facts, but each involves a controversy as to
whether respondent was domiciled within the District of
Columbia on December 31, 1939, within the meaning of
§ 2 (a) of the District of Columbia Income Tax Act,1
which lays a tax on "the taxable income of every individual domiciled in the District of Columbia on the last day
of the taxable year." The following facts appear from
proceedings before the Board of Tax Appeals for the District of Columbia:
The respondent in No. .58, a single man, first came to
the District of Columbia in 1935 to work as an economist
in the Treasury Department, and was blanketed into
Civil Service in that position in July, 1938. He came here
from Detroit, Michigan, and has ever since continued to
'53 Stat. 1087; 20 D. C. Code (Supp. V, 1939) § 980 (a).

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

be a registered voter and has voted in the elections and
primaries in Wayne County, Michigan. He was born in
New London, Connecticut, in 1905, and when five years
old moved with his parents to Los Angeles, California,
where he resided until 1926, when he removed to Berkeley,
California. His parents live in California. In 1929 he
completed his studies at Brown University and immediately thereafter accepted employment in a trust company in Detroit, Michigan, of which one of his former
professors at Brown was vice president. While in Detroit,
respondent lived first in a rooming house and later in an
apartment. He owns no property there. In the District
of Columbia he lives in an apartment, which he has
furnished himself. His present employment pays him
$6,500 a year, while that which he left in Detroit paid
but $6,000. He testified before the Board of Tax Appeals
that he does not think he would improve his condition by
returning to Detroit, but that "It is the place to which I
will return if I ever become disemployed by the Government, which I hope will not happen . . ."

Although he

has no present connection with the trust company, he believes that he could go back with it if he should return
to Detroit. If a better position than he now has should be
offered in a city other than Detroit, he "very likely would"
accept it, despite a "preference for Detroit" based on a
belief that he "would fit in more easily" there.
Respondent claimed that .Detroit was his "legal residence" andthat he was not domidled in the District of
Columbia. The Board of Tax Appeals for the District
of Columbia found "as a fact" that when he came to
Washington in 1935 he "had an intention to remain and
make his home in the District of Columbia for an indefinite period of time; and that such intention has ever
since, and still does remain with him; and that if he has
any intention to return and make his home in Detroit,
it is a floating intention." The Board held, however, "as

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
441

Opinion of the Court.

matter of law," that on December 31, 1939, the last day
of the taxable year, petitioner was not domiciled in the
District of Columbia, believing that it was compelled to
do so by the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in Sweeney v. District
of Columbia, 72 App. D. C. 30, 113 F. 2d 25, certiorari
denied, 310 U. S. 631.
The respondent in No. 59 lived in the District of Columbia for twenty-six years after coming here from Pennsylvania in 1914 to accept a clerical position of indefinite
tenure under Civil Service in the Patent Office. He was
then on a year's leave of absence from a railroad by which
he was employed, but continued in the Civil Service to
the time of hearing, becoming Chief Clerk of the Personnel
and Organization Division of the National Guard Bureau,
War Department, with offices in Washington. Single
when he came, in 1917 he married a native of Washington,
who died in 1935 without children. Shortly after their
marriage the couple purchased as a home, premises at
1426 Massachusetts Avenue, S. E., in the District of Columbia, in which respondent still lives. In about 1925,
he purchased a lot at "Selby on the Bay" in nearby Maryland, and before his wife's death he bought a building lot
in the District of Columbia, acting on his wife's pleas for
a summer place and a better residence. He agreed with
his wife that, on his retirement, six months would be spent
at Selby. He testified that he never desired to purchase
the lot in the District of Columbia, but did so at the
insistence of his wife. He put a "For Sale" sign on it
when she died, and both lots, which he still owns, are up
for sale. He has deposits in three Washington financial
institutions and owns first trust notes on property located
in Maryland and Virginia.
In 1915, respondent became a member of a Lutheran
church in Washington, and has ever since been an active
member, at one time serving as president of its Christian

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Endeavor Society. He is a contributor to Washington
charities, a member of the Motor Club of Washington,
and of the Washington units of "Tall Cedars of Lebanon"
and the "Mystic Shrine," both identified with freemasonry. He has filed his federal income-tax returns
with the Collector of Internal Revenue at Baltimore, and
always paid to the District of Columbia an intangible
property tax while that tax was in effect.
Respondent had resided in Pennsylvania from birth
until he left for Washington. He claimed as his "legal
residence" the residence of his parents in Harrisburg,
where they still keep intact his room in which are kept
some of his clothes and childhood toys. Though paying
nothing as rent or for lodging, he has fr6m time to time
made presents of money to his parents. He has visited
his parents' home in Harrisburg over week ends at least
eight times a year, and has been there annually between
Christmas and the New Year. A registered voter in Pennsylvania, he has voted in all its general elections since he
became of age. He paid the Pennsylvania poll tax until
it was superseded by an occupational tax, which he has
also paid., Payment of such taxes was a prerequisite to
voting.
In 1912, respondent became a life member of the Robert
Burns Lodge No. 464, Free and Accepted Masons, and of
the Harrisburg Consistory, Scottish Rite, both Masonic
bodies. While he resided in Harrisburg he was a member
of the Bible Class of the Pine Street Presbyterian Church,
which he still attends on visits there, and to which he
made substantial contributions in 1939. He owns jointly
with his father a note secured by a mortgage on Pennsylvania real estate. Respondent testified that he expected
to retire from Civil Service in four years and intended then
to sell his house and "leave Washington."
The Board found "as a fact" that, at the end of one year
after he came to the District in 1914, respondent "had an

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

441

intention to remain and make his home in the District
of Columbia for an indefinite period of time and that intention remained with him, at least until the death of his
wife." As in No. 58, it considered itself bound by the
Sweeney case, supra,and accordingly held "as a matter of
law" that the petitioner was not domiciled in the District
on December 31, 1939, and never had been.
The decisions in both cases were affirmed on review by
the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia. 73 App. D. C. 345, 347, 119 F. 2d 449, 451.
The cases were brought here on writs of certiorari because
of the importance of the questions involved. 313 U. S.
556.
Although the District of Columbia Income Tax Act
made "domicile" the fulcrum of the income tax, the first
ever imposed in the District, it set forth no definition of
that word. To ascertain its meaning we therefore consider the Congressional history of the Act, the situation
with reference to which it was enacted, and the existing
judicial precedents, with which Congress may be taken to
have been familiar in at least a general way. United
States v. Dickerson, 310 U. S. 554, 562.
As introduced into and passed by the House of Representatives, the bill which, with amendments, became the
Act, laid a tax upon income of residents from whatever
source derived, and upon income of nonresidents from
sources within the District, with a provision for credit for
the payment of income taxes elsewhere. H. R. 6577, 76th
Cong., 1st Sess., §§ 2 (a), 4 (a), 9 (a), (b). The bill was
amended on the floor of the House to except "Senators,
Representatives, Delegates, Resident Commissioners,
officers and employees of the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States." 84 Cong. Rec. 7036. It
was unacceptable to the Senate in this form, and it was
agreed in conference that the tax should be levied upon
"every individual domiciled in the District of Columbia
428670-42----29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

on the last day of the taxable year," with no provision for
credit for income taxes paid elsewhere. H. R. Rep. Nos.
1093, 1206, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3; Sen. Doe. No. 92,
76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3. This was agreed to by the
Senate and by the House of Representatives, and became
part of the Act under consideration.
The conference agreement was presented to the Senate
by Senator Overton, chairman of the Senate conferees,
with the following explanation: "Mr. President, I now
call attention to the fact that the individual income tax
is imposed only on those domiciled in the District of
Columbia. It, therefore, necessarily excludes from its
imposition all Senators and Members of the House of
Representatives, the President of the United States, all
Cabinet officers, and Federal employees who have been
brought into the District from the various States of the
Union to serve their country in the National Capital,
provided such employees have not of their volition surrendered their domiciles in the States and have voluntarily acquired domiciles within the District of Columbia." 84 Cong. Rec. 8824. Senator Overton also stated:
"I took the position before the District of Columbia Committee and in conference that I would not support any
legislation which would exempt Senators and Members
of the House of Representatives and their official force
from an income tax in the District of Columbia but would
impose it on all others. I then took the position in conference that if we imposed an income tax only on those
domiciled within the District, then we would be imposing
it only on those who of their own volition had abandoned
their domiciles in the States of their origin and had elected
to make their permanent home or domicile here in the
District of Columbia. Such persons, it may be justly
contended, have no cause to complain against an income
tax that is imposed upon them only because they have

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
441

Opinion of the Court.

chosen to establish within the District of Columbia their
permanent 2 places of abode and to abandon their domiciles within the States." 84 Cong. Rec. 8825.
In the House, Representative Nichols, chairman of the
House conferees, and also chairman of the House District
Committee in charge of fiscal affairs, submitted the conference report and stated: "Since the question of the
effect of the word 'domicile' in this act has been raised,
I think the House would probably like to have the legal
definition read: 'Domicile is'the place where one has his
true, fixed, permanent home and principal establishment
and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention
of returning, and where he exercises his political
rights.' . . . There must exist in combination the fact
of residence and animus manendi-' which means residence and his intention to return [sic]; so that under this
definition he could certainly live in the District of Columbia and have his legal domicile in any other State in the
United States." 84 Cong. Rec. 8974.
Representative Bates, another of the House conferees,
stated in response to a question regarding the possibility
of triple taxation, "We raised that particular point [in
conference] because we are much concerned about how
those who come from our States would be affected by the
income-tax provisions of the new law, and it was distinctly
'We do not understand "permanent" to have been used in a literal
sense. Of course it cannot be known without the gift of prophecy
whether a given abode is "permanent" in the strictest sense. But
beyond this, it is frequently used in the authorities on domicile to
describe that which is not merely "temporary," or to describe a
.dwelling for the time being which there is no presently existing intent
to give up. And further, compare a statement by Representative
Dirksen on the floor of the House, 84 Cong. Rec. 8973.
'Exercise of political rights elsewhere cannot be considered as meant
to be conclusive on the issue of taxability in the District. See statement by Representative Dirksen on the floor of the House. Ibid.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

understood that in this bill there should be no triple
taxation . . ." 84 Cong. Rec. 8973.
The unusual character of the National Capital, making
the income tax a "very explosive and controversial item," I
was vividly before the Congress, and must also be con-

sidered in construing the statute imposing the tax.
The District of Columbia is an exceptional community.
It is not a local municipal authority, but was established
under the Constitution as the seat of the National Government. Those in Government service here are not
engaged in local enterprise, although their service may be
localized. Their work is that of the Nation, and their
pay comes not from local sources but from the whole
country. Because of its character as a Federal City, there
is no local political constituency with whose activities
those living in it may identify themselves as a symbol
of their acceptance of a local domicile.
Not all whb flock here are birds of a feather. Some
enter the Civil Service, finding tenure and pay there more
secure than in private entbrprise. Political ties are of no
consequence in obtaining or maintaining their positions.
At the other extreme are those who hold appointive office
at the pleasure of the appointing officer. These latter, as
well as appointive officers with definite but unprotected
tenure, and all elective officers, usually owe their presence
here to the intimate and influential part they have played
in community life in one of the States.
Relatively few persons here in any branch of the Government service can truthfully and accurately lay claim
to an intention to sever themselves from the service on any
exact date. Persons in all branches usually desire, quite
naturally and properly, to continue family life and, to
have the comforts of a domestic establishment for whatever ruay be the term of their stay here. This is true of
'84 Cong. Rec. 8972.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
441

Opinion of the Court.

many Senators ana Congressmen, cited by Senator
Overton as typical of those whom the limitation of
the statute to persons "domiciled" here .-"necessarily
excludes."
Turning to the judicial precedents for further guidance
in construing "domicile" as used in the statute, we find it
generally recognized that one who comes to Washington
to enter the Government service and to live here for its
duration does not thereby acquire a new domicile. More
than a century ago, Justice Parker of New Hampshire observed that "It has generally been considered that persons
appointed to public office under the authority of the
United States, and taking up their residence in Washington for the purpose of executing the duties of such office,
do not thereby, while engaged in the service of the government, lose their domicile in the place where they before resided, unless they intend on removing there to make
Washington their permanent I residence." See Atherton
v. Thornton, 8 N. H. 178, 180. By and large, subsequent
cases have taken a like view.' It should also be observed
'See note 2, supra.
0
Waldenv. Canfield, 2 Rob. (La.) 466; Lesh v. Lesh, 13 Pa. Dist. Ct.
537; see Woodworth V. St. Paul, M. & M. Ry. Co., 18 F. 282, 284;
Commonwealth v. Jones, 12 Pa. St. 365, 371; cf. Newman v. United
States, 43 App. D. C. 53, 70; reversed on another ground, 238 U. S.
537; Deming v. UnitedStates, 59 App. D. C. 188, 37 F. 2d 818; Campbell v. Ramsey, 150 Kan. 368, 388, 92 P. 2d 819; Hannon v. Grizzard,
89 N. C. 129. But cf. Bradstreet v. Bradstreet,18 D. C. 229,7 Mackey
229; Sparks v. Sparks, 114 Tenn. 666, 88 S. W. 173.
Professor Beale has summarized the cases as follows: "Presence for
the purpose of performing the duties of a civil office will not of itself
effect a change of domicil; there is no inference of animus manendi from
the fact of the new residence, since it is explained by the fact of office
holding. It makes no difference whether the office is elective or appointive; nor is it material whether the appointment is in its nature
merely temporary or has a degree of permanence, though the permanence of the appointment is an element to be considered in: determining the domicil." 1 Beale, Conflict of Laws §. 22.6. See also,
Restatement, Conflict of Laws, pp. 42-43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

454

Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

that a policy against loss of domicile by sojourn in Washington is expressed in the constitutions and statutes of
many States! Of course, no individual case, constitution, or statute is controlling, but the general trend of these
authorities is a significant recognition that the distinctive
character of Washington habitation for federal service is
meaningful to those who are served as well as to those in
the service.
From these various data on Congressional intent, it
is apparent that the present cases are not governed by the
tests usually employed in cases where the element of Federal service in the Federal City is not present.' We hold
that a man does not acquire a domicile in the District
simply by coming here to live for an indefinite period of
time while in the Government service. A contrary decision would disregard the statements made on the floor of
Congress as to the meaning of the statute, fail to give
proper weight to the trend of judicial decisions, with which
Congress should be taken to have been cognizant, and result in a wholesale finding of domicile on the part of Government servants quite obviously at variance with Congressional policy. Further, Congress did not intend that
one living here indefinitely while in the Government service be held domiciled here simply because he does not
maintain a domestic establishment at the place he hails
from. Such a rule would result in taxing those unable
to maintain two establishments, and exempting those able
to meet such a burden-thus reversing the usual philosophy of income tax as one based on ability to pay.
On the other hand, we hold that persons are domiciled
here who live here and have no fixed and definite intent to
return and make their homes where they were formerly
'1 Beale, Conflict of Laws, p. 172, note 2.
Cf. Williamson v. Osenton, 232 U. S. 619, 624; Gilbert v. David,

235 U. S. 561.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
441

Opinion of the Court.

domiciled.' A decision that the statute lays a tax only
on those with an affirmative intent to remain here the rest
of their days would be at odds with the prevailing concqpt of domicile, and would give the statute scope far narrower than Congress must have intended.
Cases falling clearly within such broad rules aside, the
question of domicile is a difficult one of fact to be settled
only by a realistic and conscientious review of the many
relevant (and frequently conflicting) indicia of where a
man's home 1 is and according to the established modes of
proof.
The place where a man lives is properly taken to be his
domicile until facts adduced establish the contrary.
Ennis v. Smith, 14 How. 400, 423; Anderson v. Watt, 138
U. S. 694, 706. The taxing authority is warranted in
treating as prima facie taxable any person quartered in
the District on tax day whose status it deems doubtful. It
is not an unreasonable burden upon the individual, who
knows best whence he came, what he left behind, and his
own attitudes, to require him to establish domicile elsewhere if he is to escape the tax.
To hold taxable one who contends that he is not domiciled here, the Board need not find the exact time when the
"attitude and relationship of person to place" which constitute domicile, Texas v. Florida,306 U. S. 398, 411, were
'This is not inconsistent with our holding that domicile here does
not follow from mere indefiniteness of the period of one's stay. While
the intention to return must be fixed, the date need not be; while
the intention to return must be unconditional, the time may be, and in

nost cases of necessity is, contingent. The intention must not waver
before the uncertainties of time, but one may not be visited with
unwelcome domicile for lacking the gift of prophecy.
.Of course, this term does not have the magic qualities of 'a divin-

ing rod in locating domicile. In fact, the search for the domicile of any
person capable of acquiring a domicile of choice is but a search for his
"home." See Beale, Social Justice and Business Costs, 49 Harv. L.
Rev. 593, 596; 1 Beale, Conflict of Laws, § 19.1.

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

formed, so long as it finds they were formed before the tax
lay. What was at first a firm intent to return may have
withered gradually in consequence of dissolving associations elsewhere and growing interests in the District. It is
common experience that this process usually is unmarked
by any dramatic or even sharply defined episode. The
taxing authority need not find just when the intent was
finally dissipated; it is enough that it finds that this has
happened before the tax day.
If one has at any time become domiciled here, it is his
burden to establish any change of status upon which he
relies to escape' the tax. Anderson v. Watt, supra, at p.
706.
In order to retain his former domicile, one who comes to
the District to enter Government service must always have
a fixed and definite intent to return and take up his home
there when separated from the service. A mere sentimental attachment will not hold the old domicile. And
residence in the District with a nearly equal readiness to go
back where one came from, or to any other community offering advantages upon the termination of service, is not
enough.
One's testimony with regard to his intention is, of course,
to be given full and fair consideration, but is subject to the
infirmity of any self-serving declaration, and may frequently lack persuasiveness or even be contradicted or
negatived by other declarations and inconsistent acts.
Whether or not one votes where he claims domicile is
highly relevant but by no means controlling." Each
State prescribes for itself the qualifications of its voters,
and each has its own machinery for detbrmining compliance with such qualifications. A vote cast without challenge and adjudication may indicate only laxity of the
See statements of Representative Dirksen, 84 Cong. Rec. 8973.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. MURPHY.
441

.457

Opinion of the Court.

state officials, and even an adjudication of the right to vote
cannot preclude the levy of a tax by an arm of the Federal
Government. On the other hand, failure to vote elsewhere is, of course, not conclusive that domicile is here.
Also of great significance is the nature of the position
which brings one to or keeps him in the service of the
Government: whether continuous or emergency, special
or war-time in character; whether requiring fixed residence in the District or only intermittent stays; whether
entailing monetary sacrifices or betterment; and whether
political or non-political. Those dependent upon the action of a local constituency on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November are, of course, loath to leave
their local identifications behind when taking up Government duties in Washington.
Of course, the manner of living here, taken in connection with one's station in life, is relevant. Did he hire a
furnished room or establish himself by the purchase of a
house? Or did he rent a house or apartment? Has he
brought his family and dependents here? Has he brought
his goods? What relations has he to churches, clubs,
lodges, and investments that identify him with the
District?
All facts which go to show the relations retained to
one's former place of abode are relevant in determining
domicile. What bridges have been kept and what have
been burned? Does he retain a place of abode there, or
is there a family-home with which he retains identity?
Does he have investments in local property or enterprise
which attach him to the community? What are his affiliations with the professional, religious, and fraternal life of
the community, and what other associations does he cling
to? How permanent was his domicile in the community
from which he came? Had it long been a family seat,
or was he there a bird of passage? Would a return to

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

the old community pick up threads of close association?
Or has he so severed his relations that his old community
is as strange as another? Did he pay taxes in the old
community because of his retention of domicile which he
could have avoided by giving it up? Were they nominal
or substantial? In view of the legislative history showing
that Congress was concerned lest there be "triple taxation"-Federal, State and District-the Board should consider whether taxes similar in character to those laid by
this Act have been paid elsewhere. See statement of Representative Bates, quoted supra,p. 451.
Our mention of these considerations as being relevant
must not be taken as an indication of the relative weights
to be attached to them as an implied negation of the
relevance of others, or as an effort to suggest a formula to
handle all cases that may arise, or the possibility of devisihg one.
In view of what we have said, it is clear that the present
cases did not call for rulings of non-taxability "as a matter
of law." On the other hand, we do not consider whether
taxability follows as a matter of law, as petitioner contends it does, for the factual inquiries and findings of the
Board, made under a view of the law not our own, are
quite likely not in all respects those which the Board
would have made had it proceeded with knowledge of our
opinion, and are in some respects ambiguous for the purpose of decision in accordance with it. Accordingly, we
reverse the decisions by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and remand these cases
to that Court with directions to remand to the Board for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
.Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JusTICE RoBERTS, and MR.
JusTIcE REED took no part in the consideration or decision
of these cases.

