160

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U.S.

Court of Tennessee acted, the ultimate vindication of any
federal right lies with this Court.
The District Court was here without power to enjoin
petitioner from further prosecuting its suit in the Tennessee state court.
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS
JUSTICE REED, concurring:

and

MR.

The reasons which led to dissent in Toucey v. New York
Life Insurance Co., and Phoenix Finance Corp. V. IowaWisconsin Bridge Co., ante, p. 118,.do not exist in this case.
There is no federal decree and therefore no need of an
injunction to protect the decree or prevent relitigation.
EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA IN AND
FOR THE COUNTY OF YUBA.

No. 17.

Argued April 28, 29, 1941. Reargued October 21, 1941.Decided November 24, 1941.

'L. Transportation of persons from one State into another'is interstate

commerce. P. 172.
2. A statute of California making it a misdemeanor for anyone knowingly to bring or assist in bringing into the State a nonresident
"indigent person," held invalid as an unconstitutional burden on
interstate commerce. P. 174.
For the purposes of this case it is assumed that the term, "indigent
person," though not confined to the physically or mentally incapacitated, includes only persons who are presently dstitute of
property and without resources to obtain the necessities of life,
and who have no relatives or friends able and willing to support
them. P. 172.
How far the regulatory power of Congress extends over such
transportation, and whether the attempted state regulation is also
prohibited by other provisions of the Constitution, are questions not
decided in this case and upon which the, majority of the Court
expresses no opinion. Pp. 176, 177.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

Argument for Appellant.

3. Remarks in New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102, and other cases, concerning the power of a State to exclude "paupers" are considered and
the meaning of that term discussed. P. 176.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Superior Court of California which affirmed the conviction of Edwards under a
California statute declaring it 'to be a misdemeanor for
any person to bring, or assist in bringing, into the State
any nonresident of the State, knowing him to be an indigent person. The court below was the highest court to
which an appeal could be taken under the laws of California. The case was argued here, and reargument was
ordered, at the 1940 Term, 313 U. S. 545.
Mr. Samuel Siaff for the appellant.
The transient unemployed comprise most of the nonresidents who come into California. The act of bringing or assisting in bringing almost any of these people
into the State has been made a crime, for it is clear
that practically all migratory-casual labor and transient
unemployed fall within the classification of "indigent
persons."
The passage of persons from State to State constitutes
interstate commerce, Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Hoke
v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; Gooch v. United States,
297 U. S. 124; United States v. Miller, 17 F. Supp. 65;
Covington & CincinnatiBridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.
204, whether they be moved by common carrier or otherwise. Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470; United
States v. Burch, 226 F. 974.
The effect of the statute is to bar the movement of
indigent persons into California, and to compel their
removal therefrom at the pleasure of the authorities.
A natural tendency of the statute is to intimidate,
under threat of criminal prosecution, not only one who
would transport an indigent migrant, but also the migrants
themselves. Its consequence often will be to leave the
426670°-42.-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Appellant.

314 U. S.

latter substantially helpless to move, compelling them to
remain at their place of origin where employment is
wanting and opportunity lacking.
If the movement of indigent migrants into a State may
be barred or impeded because of fear of the creation of a
burden which may subsequently fall on the residents of
that State, then migration out of a State might also be
restrained where depopulation would increase the burden
of governmental indebtedness on those remaining. If
the principle of freezing population in areas of origin is
constitutionally sound, there is legal sanction for the
growth of an economic condition of virtual peonage, chaining people to that part of the land where accident of birth
has first placed them.
By impeding the free movement of employables across
state lines, the statute interposes a barrier against the
competition of the labor of nonresidents with that of
residents. Cf. Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454, 457.
The absence of capital cannot serve to fetter the merchant
or deny him a regional or national market. Baldwin v.
Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, 527.
Poverty is not a "moral pestilence." New York v. Miln,
11 Pet. 102,142. Migrants are not improper subjects of
commerce. Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251; Baldwin v.
Seelig, supra, 525.
Interstate trade, the redistribution of population from
marginal. and sub-marginal areas, the right to migrate in
pursuit of livelihood, freedom of opportunity, freedom of,
passage from State to State, the needs of national industry, the requirements of national defense--these are
not merely local,, internal, affairs and mEtters on which
the State may have some power to affect interstate commerce. They are matters affected with a vital national
interest; they are the very fabric of national unity.
Whether by the statute in question California seeks to
bar the passage of indigents directly or indirectly, her

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

163

Argument for Appellant.

action in either event invades the power of the National
Government over interstate commerce.
The statute is void on its face and operates to deprive
the appellant of liberty without due process of law and to
deny him the equal protection of the laws.
It is beyond the power of the State to make a crime
of assisting another in the exercise of his constitutional
rights. De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 357, 362 et seq.
Could Duncan have been barred from California, solely
because of his indigency, without being deprived of liberty
without due process? Cf. Schneider v. Irvington, 308
U. S. 147, 161. The right to work for a living in the common occupations of the community is of the very essence
of the personal freedom and opportunity that it was the
purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment to secure. Truax
v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 41. Implicit therein is the right to
go to any place where those occupations may require.
Freedom of movement and of residence must be a fundamental right in a democratic State. Whether within
the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment or within the term liberty in the due process
clause, it is a basic constitutional right, the more valuable
to those who migrate because of economic compulsions.
The protection of our form of government may not be
minified by reasons of temporary economic expediency.
"Those who would enjoy the blessings of liberty must,
like men, undergo the fatigues of supporting it." Thomas
Paine, complete works, vol. 2, 135. The Fourteenth
Amendment is no fair weather protection of the liberties
of persons. Its operation is not limited to times of economic security when there is no pressure upon States to
curtail liberty. It furnishes a "guaranty against any encroachment by the States upon the fundamental rights
which belong to every citizen as a member of Society."
UnitedStates v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 554.

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Amicus Curiae.

314 U. S.

By special leave of Court, Mr. John H. Tolan, with
whom Mr. Irwin W. Silverman was on the brief, for the
Select Committee of the House of Representatives of the
United States (appointed pursuant to House Resolution
No. 63, April 22, 1940, to investigate interstate migration
of destitute citizens), as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
The statute contravenes the privileges and immunities
clauses of the Constitution. Art. IV, § 2; Fourteenth
Amendment.
Art. IV, § 2, like Art. IV of the Articles of Confederation, was intended to insure to each of the citizens
of the several States the fundamental right to move
about freely and easily from State to State in search of
opportunity. Expressions of the courts confirm this conclusion. See Corfield v. Coryell, 6 Fed. Cas. 546, 551;
Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 492; Crandall v. Nevada,
6 Wall. 35, 49; Paulv. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, 180; Ward v.
Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430; Slaughter-House Cases, 16
Wall. 36, 76; United States v. Wheeler, 254 U. S. 281, 290,
297; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33. Distinguishing cases
dealing with quarantines of persons and products.
The proposition that a State, under its police powers,
may exclude "paupers," is not sustained by the cases
that have been cited for it. Distinguishing New York v.
Miln, 11 Pet. 102, and other cases in this Court.
The Miln case -was directly or impliedly overruled by
Henderson v. Wickham, 92 U. S. 259.
This Court has never squarely passed upon the question whether a State may, in the exercise of its police
power, exclude paupers from its limits. There is, however, ample authority in the state courts to the effect
that a State may prevent persons who are lunatics,
idiots, vagrants, aged, or infirm, and who are without
any visible means of support, from coming within its
limits. But, unfortunately, in most of these cases, the
decisions do not turn on whether these persons are paupers or indigents, but-rather on the question of a particular locality's support or nonsupport of these people.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
I60

° 165

Argurment for Amicus Curiae.

In each of these cases, exclusion is narrowly limited
to those who are physically or mentally handicapped:
and without some means of support; and, in no case
has this doctrine been expanded to include persons who
are not imbeciles, who are not drunkards, who are not
vagrants or tramps, who are not diseased, who are not
aged. or infirm, nor as to persons who have always
worked, persons who are willing to work, persons who'
are able to' work and who are competent in every other
respect, except that they are temporarily without work
and without funds.
This state statute, applying to all modes of interstate
transportation of persons into California, imposes the
burden upon every carrier into that State, if it would
avoid criminal liability, of determining for itself whether
it has aboard any persons who may be deemed "indigent";
yet the content of that term is wholly undefined.
The statute is not sufficiently explicit. It fails to
inform those subject to its penalties of what conduct
will render them liable. It is therefore void for
uncertainty. Ex parte Leach, 215 Cal. 536; Hewit v.
State Board of Medical Examiners, 148 Cal. 590; State
v. Partlow, 91 N. C. 550.
The Act obliges the carrier to conduct an investigation of its own into the health, morals, personal and
financial position, of those aboard, in order to determine
Ignorance and mistake do not ex.who is "indigent."
no provision for its adminismakes
cuse. The statute
tration, or for a hearing, or for an appeal, as to whether
the carrier has complied with its provisions. Upon arrival at the state border, the carrier will be subjected to
.an equally rigorous inspection by state officials, or will
be required to stop at a quarantine station, or at some
port of entry. This double investigation will involve
the expenditure of enormous sums by the carriers, and
will exclude from interstate passage on public convey-

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Appellee.

314 U. S.

ances thousands of citizens whom the carriers may regard
as "poor risks."
The controlling factor is not whether such a law or
regulation affects interstate or foreign commerce, but
whether the type of commerce is within the exclusive
jurisdiction of Congress.
No one can deny that this Act imposes a definite, arbitrary interference and burden on interstate commerce,
over which Congress has exclusive jurisdiction.
The question of interstate migration is not for each
State to regulate individually and without regard to the
regulations enacted by the other States. Nor is it a
problem which each State in intercourse with all others
can settle for itself, without interfering with the power
over interstate commerce delegated to Congress by the
Constitution.
The statute must also fall for the reason that it violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31. It declares, in effect, that a person, competent and able and
willing to work and who can afford to pay for his transportation on a public carrier, is not an indigent; while
a person who possesses like qualifications, but who can
not afford to pay for his transportation, is an indigent.
See Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33.
Mr. Charies A. Wetmore, Jr. submitted on the original.
argument for appellee.
The statute is a valid exercise of the police power of
the State.
In New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102, this Court recognized
the right of a State to exclude paupers from its boundaries.
See also, Hannibal & St. Joseph R. Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S.
465; In re Ah Fong, 3 Saw. 144, 1 Fed. Cas. 213; Henderson v. Wickham, 92 U. S. 259; Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92
U. S. 275; PassengerCases, 7 How. 283; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Missouri, K. & T. Ry. v. Haber,
169 U. S.613.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

Argument for Appellee.

In Kaoru Yamataya v. Fisher (the "Japanese Immigrant Case"), 189 U. S. 86, the Court held that the exclusion of paupers was a police measure properly to be
exercised by the Federal Government. Similarly, exclusion by the States is but the States' exercise of the same
kind of power, and is valid under the reservation of such
power by the several States under the Constitution.
Many other States have statutes similar to the California statute. State v. Cornish, 66 N. H. 329; Pitkin
County v. Law, 3 Colo. App. 328; Superintendents of the
Poor v. Nelson, 75 Mich. 154; Coe v. Smith, 24 Wend.
341.
Although in 1901, when the statute under consideration
was originally enacted, there was no acute pauper imnigration to California, the last decade has developed from
this source a problem staggering in its proportions.
A social problem in the South and Southwest for over
half a century, the "poor white" tenants and share croppers, following reduction of cotton planting, droughts and
adverse conditions for small-scale farming, swarmed into
California. These unfortunate people were usually destitute when they arrived. Their ordinary routine upon
coming to California has been, first to go on federal relief
for one year, and then on to state and county relief rolls
indefinitely. After they earn a little money in the harvests, they send back home transportation for their relatives, generally the aged and infirm, and these immediately become and continue to be public charges.
They avoid our cities and even our towns by crowding
together, in the open country and in camps, under.living
conditions shocking both as to sanitation and social environment. Underfed for many generations, they bring
with them the various nutritional diseases of the South.
Their presence here upon public relief, with their habitual
unbalanced diet and consequently lowered body resistance,
means a constant threat of epidemics. Venereal diseaseF

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Appellee.

314 U. S.

and tuberculosis are common with them, and axe on the
increase. The increase of rape and incest are readily
traceable to the crowded conditions in which these people
are forced to live. Petty crime among them has featured
'he criminal calendars of every community into which they
have moved.
As proven by experience in agricultural strikes, they are
readily led into riots by agitators; although, it must be
soaid, they stubbornly resist all subversive influences, being
loyal Americans whose only wish is for a better chance in
life.
Their coming here has alarmingly increased our taxes
and the cost of welfare outlays, old age pensions, and the
care of the criminal, the indigent sick, the blind and the
insane.
Should the States that have so long tolerated, and even
fostered, the social conditions that have reduced these
people to their state of poverty and wretchedness, be able
to get rid of them by low relief and insignificant welfare
allowances and drive them into California to become our
public charges, upon our immeasurably higher standard
of social services?, Naturally, when these people can live
.on relief in California better than they can by working in
.Mississippi, Arkansas, Texas or Oklahoma, they will continue to come to this State.
If a statute be a proper police measure, it is valid even
though interstate commerce may be incidentally affected.
Bayside Fish Flour Co. v. Gentry, 297 U4 S. 442; Great
Northern R. Co. v. Washington, 300 U. S. 154; Denver &
R. G. R. Co. v. Denver, 250 U. S. 241. A state regulation
declaring that paupers, indigents, and vagabonds are not
legitimate subjects of interstate commerce-is not violative
of the commerce clause. License Cases, 5 How. 504;
Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283.
The Fourteenth Amendment protects the life, liberty
. property of persons within the boundaries of the

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

Reargument for Appellee.

United States, but this protection is subject to reagonable
police regulation by the States. Nebbia v. New York,
291 U. S. 502; Lacoste v. Department of Conservation,263
U. S. 545; Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138.
Mr. W. T. Sweigert, Assistant Attorney General of
California, with whom Messrs. Earl Warren, Attorney
General, and Hiram W. Johnson, 3rd, Deputy Attorney
General, were on the brief, on the reargument, for
appellee.
Section 2615 does not in terms exclude any indigent
person, nor does it in effect exclude any indigent family.
It applies only to other persons, whether citizens of California or not, who, as volunteers and without any tie of
legal support to the indigent, knowingly bring, or assist
in bringing, indigent persons into the State.
Such act of stimulating, promoting or assisting an influx of destitute persons, over and above a normal entry
of indigents themselves, is, in itself, related to a local
problem affecting the health, safety, welfare and economic
resources of the State.
The statute, in its reference to indigent persons, contemplates only -a limited class of persons, i. e., persons so
destitute of means for the support of themselves and their
families as to be dependent on public aid.
Congress has not acted in the field. of regulating the
movement of such persons between States but has merely
made available some funds to assist in their care after
arrival, and even in this respect the aid consists merely
in the permissive use by certain federal agencies of such
appropriations as may be available, there being no permanent or comprehensive federal plan for the purpose.
Congress has acted to exclude alien "paupers," "professional beggars," "vagrants," "persons likely to become a
public charge" and "persons whose ticket or passage is
paid for by the money of another, or who are assisted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

others to come ... " (U. S. C. Tit. 8, § 3), but has not
provided any similar legislation for interstate migration.
Section 2615 does not contravene the privileges and
immunities clause of Article IV, § 2 of the Constitution.
The Articles of Confederation expressly excepted "pauppers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice" from those
inhabitants of each State entitled to all privileges and
immunities of the citizens of the several States; and
Article IV, § 2 of the Constitution was drawn with reference to the corresponding clause of the Articles of Confederation and was intended to perpetuate the limitations
of the former. United States v. Wheeler, 254 U. S. 281,
296.
The right of persons to move across state boundaries is
not referable to the privileges and immunities clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Even if that clause covers the
right of ingress and egress between States, it does not,
When read in the light of the exception implied in Article
IV, § 2, in respect to paupers, and in the light of the reiterated pronouncements of this Court with respect to
paupers, apply to ingress and egress of paupers, persons
so destitute as to be dependent on public aid.
In any event, appellant is in no position to assert the
invalidity of § 2615 under these particular constitutional
provisions, because he has not been deprived of any privilege or immunity thereby secured, even if it be assumed
that an indigent nonresident could rely upon them in a
proper case.
MR. JusricE BYRNES delivered the opinion of the Court.
The facts of this case are simple and are not disputed.
Appellant is a citizen of the United States and a resident of
California. In December, 1939, he left his home inMarysville, California, for Spur, Texas, with the intention of
bringing back to Marysville his wife's brother, Frank Duncan, a citizen of the United States and a resident of Texas.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

Opinion of the Court.

When he arrived in Texas, appellant learned that Duncan
had last been employed by the Works Progress Administration. Appellant thus became aware of the fact that
Duncan was an indigent person and he continued to be
aware of it throughout the period involved in this case.
The two men agreed that appellant should transport Duncan from Texas to Marysville in appellant's automobile.
Accordingly, they left Spur on January 1, 1940, entered
California by way of Arizona on January 3, and reached
Marysville on January 5. When he left Texas, Duncan
had about $20. It had all been spent by the time he
reached Marysville. He lived with appellant for about
ten days until he obtained financial assistance from the
Farm Security Administration. During the ten day interval, he had no employment.
In Justice Court a complaint was filed against appellant
under § 2615 of the Welfare and Institutions Code of
California, which provides: "Every person, firm or corporation or officer or agent thereof that brings or assists
in bringing into the State any indigent person who is not
a resident of the State, knowing him to be an indigent
person, is guilty of a misdemeanor." On demurrer to
the complaint, appellant urged that the Section violated
several provisions of the Federal. Constitution. The demurrer was overruled, the cause was tried, appellant was
convicted and sentenced to six months imprisonment in
the county jail, and sentence was suspended.
On appeal to the Superior Court of Yuba County, the
facts as stated above were stipulated. The Superior
Court, although regarding as "close" the question of the
validity of the Section, felt "constrained to uphold the
statute as a valid exercise of the police power of the State
of California." Consequently, the conviction was affirmed. No appeal to a higher state court was open to
appellant. We noted probable jurisdiction early last

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

term, and later ordered reargument (313 U. S. 545) which
has been held.
At the threshold of our inquiry a question arises with
respect to the interpretation of § 2615. On reargument,
the Attorney General of California has submitted an exposition of the history of the Section, which reveals that
statutes similar, though not identical, to it have been in
effect in California since 1860. (See Cal. Stat. (1860)
213; Cal. Stat. (1901) 636; Cal. Stat. (1933) 2005).
Neither under these forerunners nor under § 2615 itself
does'the term "indigent person" seem to have been accorded an authoritative interpretation by the California
courts. The appellee claims for the Section a very limited
scope. It urges that the term "indigent person" must be
taken to include only persons who are presently destitute
of property and without resources to obtain the necessities of life, and who have no relatives or friends able and
willing to support them. It is conceded, however, that
the term is not confined to those who are physically or
mentally incapacitated.. While the generality of the
language of the Section contains no hint of these limitations,
we are content to assign to the term this narrow meaning.
Article I, § 8 of the Constitution delegates to the Congress the authority to regulate interstate commerce. And
it is settled beyond question that the transportation of persons is"commerce," within the meaning of that provision.'
It is nevertheless true, that the States are not wholly precluded from exercising their police power in matters of
local concern even though they may thereby affect interGloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 203; Leisy
v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 112; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S. 204, 218; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308, 320; Caminetti
v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 491; United States v. Hill, 248 U. S.420,
423; Mitchell v. United States, 313 U. S. 80. Cf. The Federal Kidnaping Act of 1932, U. S. C., Title 18, §§ 408a-408c.

It is immateriAl

whether or not the transportation is commercial in character. See
Caminettiv. United States, supra.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

Opinion of the Court.

state commerce. Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109,
113. The issue presented in this case, therefore, is
whether the prohibition embodied in § 2615 against the
"bringing" or transportation of indigent persons into California is within the police power of that State. We think
that it is not, and hold that it is an unconstitutional barrier to interstate commerce.
The grave and perplexing, social and economic dislocation which this statute reflects is a matter of common
knowledge and concern. We are not unmindful of it.
We appreciate that the spectacle of large segments of our
population constantly on the move has given rise to urgent
demands upon the ingenuity of government. Both the
brief of the Attorney General of California and that of the
Chairman of the Select Committee of the House of Representatives of the United States, as amicus curiae, have
sharpened this appreciation. The State asserts that the
huge influx of migrants into California in recent years has
resulted in problems of health, morals, and especially
finance, the proportions of which are staggering. It is
not for us to say that this is not true. We have repeatedly
and recently affirmed, and we now reaffirm, that we do
not conceive it our function to pass upon "the wisdom,
need, or appropriateness" of the legislative efforts of the
States to solve such difficulties. See Olsen v. Nebraska,
313 U. S.236, 246.
But this does not mean that there are no boundaries to
the permissible area of State legislative activity. There
are. And none is more certain than the prohibition against
attempts on the part of any single State to isolate itself
from difficulties common to all of them by restraining the
transportation of persons and property across its borders.
It is frequently the case that a State might gain a momentary respite from the pressure of events by the simple expedient of shutting its gates to the outside world. But, in
the words of Mr. Justice Cardozo: "The Constitution was

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

framed under the dominion of a political philosophy less
parochial in range. It was framed upon the theory that
the peoples of the several States must sink or swim together, and that in the long run prosperity and salvation
are in union and not division." Baldwin v. Seelig, 294
U. S. 511, 523.
It is difficult to conceive of a statute more squarely in
conflict with this theory than the Section challenged here.
Its express purpose and inevitable effect is to prohibit
the transportation of indigent persons across the California border. The burden upon interstate commerce is
intended and immediate; it is the plain and sole function
of the statute. Moreover, the indigent non-residents who
are the real victims of the statute are deprived of the opportunity to exert political pressure upon the California
legislature in order to obtain a change in policy. South
CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177,
185, n. 2.' We think this statute must fail under any
known test of the validity of State interference with interstate commerce.
It is urged, however, that the concept which
underlies
§ 2615 enjoys a firm basis in English and American history.' This is the notion that each community should
care for its own indigent, that relief is solely the responsibility of local government. Of this it must first be said
that we are not now called upon to determine anything
other than the propriety of an attempt by a State to prohibit the transportation of indigent non-residents into
its territory. The nature and extent of its obligation to
afford relief to newcomers is not here involved. We do,
however, suggest that the theory of the Elizabethan poor
laws no longer fits the facts. Recent years, and particularly the past decade, have been marked by a growing
recognition that in an industrial society the task of pro'See Hirsch, H. M., Our Settlement Laws (N. Y. Dept. of Social
Welfare, 1933), passim.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
166'

175

Opinion of the Court.

viding assistance to the needy has ceased to be local in
character. The duty to share the burden, if not wholly
to assume it, has been recognized not only by State governments, but by the Federal government as well. The
changed attitude is reflected in the Social Security laws
under which the Federal and State governments co6perate
for the care of the aged, the blind and dependent children.
U. S. C., Title 42, §§ 301-1307, esp. §§ 301, 501, 601, 701,
721,801,1201. It is reflected in the works programs under
which work is furnished the unemployed, with the States
supplying approximately 25% and the Federal government approximately 75% of the cost. See, e. g., Joint
Resolution of June 26, 1940, c. 432, § 1 (d), 54 Stat. 611,
613. It is further reflected in the Farm Security laws,
under which the entire cost of the relief provisions is borne
by the Federal government. Id., at §§2 (a), 2 (b), 2 (d).
Indeed, the record in this very case illustrates the inadequate basis in fact for the theory that relief is presently
a local matter. Before leaving Texas, Duncan had received assistance from the Works Progress Administration. After arriving in California he was aided by the
Farm Security Administration, which, as we have said,
is wholly financed by the Federal government. This is
not to say that our judgment would be different if Duncan had received relief from local agencies in Texas and
California. Nor is it to suggest that the financial burden
of assistance to indigent persons does not continue to fall
heavily upon local and State governments. It is only to
illustrate that in not inconsiderable measure the relief
of the needy has become the common responsibility and
concern of the whole nation.
What has been said with respect to financing relief is
not without its bearing upon the regulation of the transportation of indigent persons. For the social phenomenon of large-scale interstate migration is as certainly a
matter of national concern as the provision of assistance
to those who have found a permanent or temporary abode.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Moreover, and unlike the relief problem, this phenomenon does not admit of diverse treatment by the several
States. The prohibition against transporting indigent
non-residents into one State is an open invitation to retaliatory measures, and the burdens upon the transportation
of such persons become cumulative. Moreover, it would
be a virtual impossibility for migrants and those who
transport them to acquaint themselves with the peculiar
rules of admission of many States. "This Court has repeatedly declared that the grant [the commerce clause]
established the immunity. of interstate commerce from
the control of the States respecting all those subjects embraced within the grant which are of such a nature as to
demand that, if regulated at all, their regulation must be
prescribed by a single authority." Milk Control Board v.
Eisenberg Farm Products, 306 U. S. 346, 351. We are
of the opinion that the transportation of indigent persons
from State to State clearly falls within this class of subjects. The scope of Congressional power to deal with
this problem we are not now called upon to decide.
There remains to be noticed only the contention that
the limitation upon State power to interfere with the
interstate transportation of persons is subject to an exception in the case of "paupers." It is true that support
for this contention may be found in early decisions of
this Court. In City of New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102,
at 143, it was said that it is "as competent and as necessary
for a State to provide precautionary measures against the
moral pestilence of paupers, vagabonds, and possibly convicts, as it is to guard against the physical pestilence, which
may arise from unsound and infectious articles imported,
."
This language has been casually repeated in numerous later cases up to the turn of the century. See,
e. g., PassengerCases, 7 How. 283, 426 and 46-467; Railway Company V. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 471; Plumley v.
Massachusetts,155 U. . 461, 478; Missouri, K. & T. Ry.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 629.. In none of these cases,
however, was the power of a State to exclude "paupers"
actually involved.
Whether an able-bodied but unemployed person like
Duncan is a "pauper" within the historical meaning of
the term is open to considerable doubt. See 53 Harvard
L. Rev. 1031, 1032. But assuming that the term is applicable to him and to persons similarly situated, we do
not consider ourselves bound by the language referred to.
City of New York v. Miln was decided in 1837. Whatever may have been the notion then prevailing, we do not
think that it will now be seriously contended that because
a person is without employment and without funds he
constitutes a "moral pestilence." Poverty and immorality are not synonymous.
We are of the opinion that § 2615 is not a valid exercise of the police power of California; that it imposes an
unconstitutional burden upon interstate commerce, and
that the conviction under it cannot be sustained. In the
view we have taken it is unnecessary to decide whether
the Section is repugnant to other provisions of the Constitution.
Reversed.
MR. JusricE DOUGLAS, concurring:
I express no view on whether or not the statute here
in question runs afoul of Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution
granting to Congress the power "to regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several States." But
I am of the opinion that the right of persons to move freely
from State to State occupies a more protected position
in our constitutional system than does the movement of
cattle, fruit, steel and coal across state lines. While the
opinion of the Court expresses no view on that issue, the
right involved is so fundamental that I deem it appropriate to indicate the reach of the constitutional question
which is present.
428670o-42--12

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DouGLAs,

J., concurring.

314 U. S.

The right to move freely from State to State is an incident of national citizenship protected by the privileges
and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
against state interference. Mr. Justice Moody in' Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 97, stated, "Privileges
and immunities of citizens of the United States . . . are
only such as arise out of the nature and essential character of the National Government, or are specifically granted
or secured to all citizens or persons by the Constitution
of the United States." And he went on to state that one
of those rights of national citizenship was "the right to
pass freely from State to State." Id., p. 97. Now it is
apparent that this right is not specifically granted by the
Constitution. Yet before the Fourteenth Amendment
it was recognized as a right fundamental to the national
character of our Federal government. It was so decided
in 1867 by Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35. In that case
this Court struck down a Nevada tax "upon every person
leaving the State" by common carrier. Mr. Justice Miller writing for the Court held that the right to move freely
throughout the nation was a right of national citizenship.
That the right was implied did not make it any the less
"guaranteed" by the Constitution. Id., p. 47. To be
sure, he emphasized that the Nevada statute would obstruct the right of a citizen to travel to the seat of his
national government or its offices throughout the country. And see United States v. Wheeler, 254 U. S. 281,
299. But there is not a shred of evidence in the record
of the Crandallcase that the persons there involved were
en route on any such mission any more than it appears
in this case that Duncan entered California to interview
some federal agency. The point which Mr. Justice Miller
made was merely in illustration of the damage and havoc
which would ensue if the States had the power to prevent
the free movement of citizens from one State to another.

EDWARDS- v. CALIFORNIA.
160

DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

This is emphasized by his quotation from Chief Justice
Taney's dissenting opinion in the PassengerCases, 7 How.
283, 492: "We are all citizens of the United States; and,
as members of the same community, must have the right
to pass and repass through every part of it without interruption, as freely as in our own States." Hence the dictum in United States v. Wheeler, supra, p. 299, which
attempts to limit the Crandall case to a holding that the
statute in question directly burdened "the performance
by the United States of its governmental functions" and
limited the "rights of the citizens growing out of such
functions," does not bear analysis.
So, when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted in
1868, it had been squarely and authoritatively settled that
the right to move freely from State to State was a right
of nationalcitizenship. As such it wds protected by the
privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment against state interference. SlaughterHouse
Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 74, 79. In the latter case Mr. Justice
Miller recognized that it was so "protected by implied
guarantees" of the. Constitution. Id., p. 79. That was
also acknowledged in Twining v. New Jersey, supra. And
Chief Justice Fuller in Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S.270,
274, stated: "Undoubtedly the right of locomotion, the
right to remove from one place to another according
.to inclination, is an attribute of personal liberty, and
the right, ordinarily, of free transit from or through the
territory of any State is a right secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment and by other provisions of the
Constitution."
In the face of this history I cannot accede to the suggestion (Helson & Randolph v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245,
251; Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S.404, 444) that the commerce clause is the appropriate explanation of Crandallv.
Nevada, supra. Two of the Justices in that case expressly

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS,

J.,

concurring.

314 U. S.

put the decision on the commerce clause; the others put
it on the broader ground of rights of national citizenship,
Mr. Justice Miller stating that "we do not concede that
the question before us is to be determined" by the commerce clause. Id., p. 43. On that broader ground it
should continue to rest.
To be sure, there are expressions in the cases that this
right of free movement of persons is an incident of state
citizenship protected against discriminatory state action
by Art. IV, § 2 of the Constitution. Corfield v. Coryell,
4 Wash. C. C. 371, 381; Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, 180;
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430; United States v.
Wheeler, supra, pp. 298-299. Under the dicta of those
cases the statute in the instant case would not survive,
since California is curtailing only the free movement of
indigents who are non-residents of that State. But the
thrust of the Crandall case is deeper. Mr. Justice Miller
adverted to Corfield v. Coryell, Paul v. Virginia, and
Ward v. Maryland,when he stated in the SlaughterHouse
Cases that the right protected by the Crandallcase was a
right of national citizenship arising from the "implied
guarantees" of the Constitution. 16 Wall. at pp. 75-79.
But his failure to classify that right as one of state citizenship protected solely by Art. IV, § 2, underscores his view
that the free movement of persons throughout this nation
was a right of national citizenship. It likewise emphasizes that Art. IV, § 2, whatever its reach, is primarily
concerned with the incidents of residence (the matter involved in United States v. Wheeler, supra) and the exercise of rights within a State, so that a citizen of one State
is not in a "condition of alienage when he is within or
when he removes to another State." Blake v. McClung,
172 U. S. 239, 256. Furthermore, Art. IV, § 2, cannot
explain the Crandall decision; The statute in that case
applied to citizens of Nevada as well as to -citizens of

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

JACKSON, J., concurring.

other States. That is to say, Nevada was not "discriminating against citizens of other States in favor of its own."
Hague v. Committee for IndustrialOrganization,307 U. S.
496, 511 and cases cited. Thus it is plain that the right
of free ingress and egress rises to a higher constitutional
dignity than that afforded by state citizenship.
The conclusion that the right of free movement is a
right of national citizenship stands on firm historical
ground. If a state tax on that movement, as in the CrandalI case, is invalid, a fortiori a state statute which obstructs or in substance prevents that movement must fall.
That result necessarily follows unless perchance a State
can curtail the right of free movement of those who are
poor or destitute. But to allow such an exception to be
engrafted on the rights of national citizenship would be
to contravene every conception of national unity. It
would also introduce a caste system utterly incompatible
with the spirit of our system of government. It would
permit those who were stigmatized by a State as indigents,
paupers, or vagabonds to be relegated to an inferior class
of citizenship. -Itwould prevent a citizen because he
was poor from seeking new horizons in other States. It
might thus withhold from large segments of our people
that mobility which is basic to any guarantee of freedom
0f opportunity. The result would be a substantial dilution of the rights of nationalcitizenship, a serious impairment. of the principles of equality. Since the state statute here challenged involves such consequences, it runs
afoul of the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JusrricE MURPHY join in
this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, concurring:
I concur in the result reached by the Court, and I agree
that the grounds of its decision are permissible ones under

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

314 U. S.

applicable authorities. But the migrations of a human
being, of whom it is charged that he possesses nothing that
can be sold and has no wherewithal to buy, do not fit easily
into my notions as to what is commerce. To hold that
the measure of his rights is the commerce clause is likely
to result eventually either in distorting the commercial
law or in denaturing human rights. I turn, therefore,
away from principles by which commerce is regulated to
that clause of the Constitution by virtue of which Duncan
is a citizen of the United States and which forbids any
State to abridge his privileges or immunities as such.
This clause was adopted to make United States citizenship the dominant and paramount allegiance among us.
The return which the law had long associated with allegiance was protection. The power of citizenship as a
shield against oppression was widely known from the example of Paul's Roman citizenship, which sent the centurion scurrying to his higher-ups with the message: "Take
heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman." I suppose none of us doubts that the hope of imparting to
American citizenship some of this vitality was the purpose
of declaring in the Fourteenth Amendment: "All persons
born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and
of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States . . ."
But the hope proclaimed in such generality soon shriveled in the process of judicial interpretation. For nearly
three-quarters of a century this Court rejected every plea
to the privileges and immunities clause. The judicial
history of this clause and the very real difficulties in the
way of its practical application to specific cases have been
too well and recently reviewed to warrant repetition.'
See dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Stone in Colgate v. Harvey,
296 U. S. 404, 436, et seq.

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

While instances of valid "privileges or immunities"
must be but few, I am convinced that this is one. I do
not ignore or belittle the difficulties of what has been
characterized by this Court as an "almost forgotten"
clause. But the difficulty of the task does not excuse
us from giving these general and abstract words whatever
.of specific content and concreteness they will bear as we
mark out their application, case by case. That is the
method of the common law, and it has been the method
of this Court with other no less general statements in
our fundamental law. This Court has not been timorous
about giving concrete meaning to such obscure and vagrant phrases as "due process," "general welfare," "equal
protection," or even "commerce among the several States."
But it has always hesitated to give any real meaning to
the privileges and immunities clause lest it improvidently
give too much.
This Court should, however, hold squarely that it is a
privilege of citizenship of the United States, protected
from state abridgment, to enter any state of the Union,
either for temporary sojourn or for the establishment of
permanent residence therein and for gaining resultant
citizenship thereof. If national citizenship means less
than this, it means nothing.
The language of the Fourteenth Amendment declaring
two kinds of citizenship is discriminating. It is: "All
persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and of the State wherein they reside."
While it thus establishes national citizenship from the
mere circumstance of birth within the territory and jurisdiction of the United States, birth within a state does not
establish citizenship thereof. State citizenship is ephemeral. It results only from residence and is gained or lost
therewith. That choice of residence was subject to local
approval is contrary to the inescapable implications of
the westward movement of our civilization.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

314 U. S.

Even as to an alien who had "been admitted to the
United States under the Federal law," this Court, through
Mr. Justice Hughes, declared that "He was thus admitted
with the privilege of entering and abiding in the United
States, and hence of entering and abiding in any State in
the Union." Truax v. Raich, 239 U, S. 33, 39. Why we
should hesitate to hold that federal citizenship implies
rights to enter and abide in any state of the Union at least
equal to those possessed by aliens passes my understanding. The world is even more upside down than I had
supposed it to be, if California must accept aliens in deference to their federal privileges but is free to turn back
citizens of the United States unless we treat them as subjects of commerce.
The right of the citizen to migrate from state to state
which, I agree with MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, is shown by our
precedents to be one of national citizenship, is not, however, an unlimited one. In addition to being subject to
all constitutional limitations imposed by the federal government, such citizen is subject to some control by state
governments. He may not, if a fugitive from justice.
claim freedom to migrate unmolested, nor may he endanger others by carrying contagion about. These causes,
and perhaps others that do not occur to me now, warrant
any public authority in stopping a man where it finds him
and arresting his progress across a state line quite as
much. as from place to place within the state.
It is here that we meet the real crux of this case. Does
"indigence" as defined by the application of the California
statute constitute a basis for restricting the freedom of
a citizen, as crime or contagion warrants its restriction?
We should say now, and in no uncertain terms, that a
man's mere property status, without more, cannot be used
by a state to test, qualify, or limit his rights as a citizen
of the United States. "Indigence" in itself is neither a
source of rights nor a basis for denying them. The mere

EDWARDS v. CALIFORNIA.
160

JACKSON, J., concurring.

state of being without funds is a neutral fact-constitutionally an irrelevance, like race, creed, or color.. I agree
with what I understand to be the holding of the
Court that cases which may indicate the contrary are
overruled.
Any measure which would divide our citizenry on the
basis of property into one class free to move from state
to state and another class that is poverty-bound to the
place where it has suffered misfortune is not only at war
with the habit and custom by which our country has
expanded, but is also a short-sighted blow at the security
of property itself. Property can have no more dangerous,
even if unwitting, enemy than one who would make its
possession a pretext for unequal or exclusive civil rights.
Where those rights are derived from national citizenship
no state may impose such a test and whether the Congress could do so we are not called upon to inquire.
I think California had no right to make the condition of
Duncan's purse, with no evidence of violation by him of
any law or social policy which caused it, the basis of
excluding him or of punishing one who extended
him aid.
If I doubted whether his federal citizenship alone were
enough to open the gates of California to Duncan, my
doubt would disappear on consideration of the obligations
of such citizenship. Duncan owes a duty to render military service, and this Court has said that this duty is the
result of his citizenship. Mr. Chief Justice White declared
in the Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 378:
"It may not be doubted that the, very conception of a
just government and its duty to the citizen includes the
reciprocal obligation of the citizen to render military service in case of need and the right to compel it." A contention that a citizen's duty to render military service is
suspended by "indigence" would meet with little favor.
Rich or penniless, Duncan's citizenship under the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

stitution pledges his strength to the defense of California
as a part of the United States, and his right to migrate to
any part of the land he must defend is something she must
respect under the same instrument. Unless this Court
is willing to say that citizenship of the United States means
at least this much to the citizen, then our heritage of
constitutional privileges and immunities is only a promise
to the ear to be broken to the hope, a teasing illusion like
a munificent bequest in a pauper's will.

UNITED STATES v. KALES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 35.

Argued November 14, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.

1. A taxpayer who had paid a 1919 income tax on the profits of a sale
of stock computed on the basis of a March 1, 1913, valuation of
the stock sold, and who later had been subjected by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to a jeopardy assessment for an additional
tax on the profits of the same transaction computed upon a lower
1913 valuation, paid the additional tax and accompanied the payment with a letter protesting against it upon the ground that the
Commissioner had no authority to reopen and set aside the 1913
valuation as made by his predecessor, but also asserting that the
first 1913 valuation was itself too low, and that if it were to be
set aside by administrative action, or in the courts, the taxpayer
would insist that the earlier tax was therefore excessive and would
claim a refund of the excess paid. Held, that the letter sufficed as a
claim to stay the running of the statute of limitations on the taxpayer's right to a refund of an excess in the earlier tax. P. 193.
2. A notice fairly advising the Commissioner of the nature of the
taxpayer's claim, which the Commissioner could reject because
too general or because it does not comply with formal requirements
of the statute and regulations, will nevertheless be treated as a claim
where formal defects and lack of specificity have been remedied by
amendment filed after the lapse of the statutory period. This is

