498

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

314 U. S.

we hold that the maintenance of this suit to restrain any
form of infringement is contrary to public policy, and that
the district court rightly dismissed it.
It is without significance that, as petitioner contends, it
is not practicable to exploit the patent rights by granting
licenses because of the preferences of manufacturers and
of the methods by which petitioner has found it convenient to conduct its business. The patent monopoly is not
enlarged by reason of the fact that it would be more convenient to the patentee to have it so, or because he cannot
avail himself of its benefits within the limits of the grant.
Despite this contention, petitioner suggests that it is
entitled to relief because it is now willing to give unconditional licenses to manufacturers on a royalty basis, which
it offers to do. It will be appropriate to consider petitioner's right to relief when it is able to show that it has
fully abandoned its present method of restraining competition in the sale of unpatented articles and that the consequences of that practice have been fully dissipated.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the decision of this

case.
ILLINOIS NATURAL GAS CO. v. CENTRAL ILLINOIS PUBLIC SERVICE CO. ET AL.
APPEAL' FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 100. Argued December 19, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.
1. A corporation, engaged within a State in the business of piping
natural gas and selling it wholesale to distributors, whose supply of
gas comes from sources outside of the State and moves in continuous streams from the pipeline of an affliate at the state border
to points where the corporation delivers it to its customers, is subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission under the
Natural Gas Act of June 21, 1938, and can not be required by state.

ILLINOIS GAS CO. v. PUBLIC.SERVICE CO. 499
498

Argument for Appellees.

authority to extend its facilities and make sales in an area already
served by another natural gas company similarly engaged and subject to t~e Act, when no certificate of'public convenience and necessity for such proposed extensions and sales has been granted by the
Federal Power Commission under § 7 (c) of the statute. P. 508.
2. It is unnecessary to determine whether the interstate commerce
comes to an end When the:cqmpany reduces the gas pressure before
delivery into the service pipes of distributors so that the sales to
distributors. are intrastate in character, since the extension of the
company's facilities as proposed in this case is so related to interstate commerce as to come within the Congressional power to regulate not only interstate commerce itself, but also those matters
which materially affect such commerce. P. 509.
.375 IlM. 634, 32 N. E. 2d 157, reversed.

APPENL from a judgment affirming a judgment of the
Illinois Circuit Court which- had sustained on appeal an
order of the Illinois Commerce Commission. The order
required the appellant to supply another company with
natural gas and to make pipeline connections for that
purpose.
Mr. Glenn W. Clark, with whom Messrs. Russell Voertman and R. Allan Stephens were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Albert E. Hallett, Jr., Assistant Attorney General
of Illinois, with whom Messrs. GeorgeF. Barrett,Attorney
General, Albert J, Meserow, Assistant Attorney General,
A. D. Stevens, and Gray Herndon were on the brief, for
appellees.
The series of transactions by which natural gas is produced in one State, transported to a local company in another, and by it there resold is not to be treated as,.
indivisible'but must be broken down into its component parts and the character of such parts separately
determined.
The interstate character of such transmission termi•nates upon delivery of the gas;to the appellant in Illinois.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
,Argument for Appellees.

314 U. S.

Appellant's resale and delivery to its customers within the
State are purely local activities.
Previous decisions of this Court, and the baekground
and express language of the Natural Gas Act, sustain these
views.
The cases relied upon by appellant are each distinguishable upon their facts. Although some of the dicta give
color to appellant's position, the actual holdings and
general tenor of the cases sustain the appellees.
The Illinois Commerce Commission, under the Illinois
statute, has jurisdiction over appellant's activities.
The order is not repugnant to or in conflict with the
Commerce Clause, and is consistent with the Natural Gas
Act.
Appellant's argument is based on the erroneous assumption that its activities, after receiving the gas, are interstate in character.
The Natural Gas Act vests in the Federal Power Commission control over only such companies as transport
natural gas across state lines. It provides that the several
States shall continue to regulate the local resale and distribution of gas within their respective borders, and sets
up extensive provisions looking forward to continued
activity on the part of both State and Federal Commissions in this field, each voluntarily cooperating with the
others.
The interests of the Nation will best be served
by federal
control of such interstate activities as are here carried on
by Panhandle, and state control of such local activities as
those of the appellant.
Cases cited and discussed: Missouri v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298; East Ohio Gas Co. v. Commission,
283 U. S. 465; Southern Natural Gas Corp. v. Alabama,
301 U. S. 148, 155; Natural Gas Pipe Line Co. v. Slattery,
302 U. S. 300; Bacon & Sons v. Martin, 305 U. S. 380;
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. StandardOil Co%, 274 U. S.

ILLINOIS GAS CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE CO. 501
498

Opinion of the Court.

257; Schechter Corp.v. United States, 295 U. S.495; Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249 U. S.236; Chicago,
M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Iowa, 233 U. S.334; Peoples Natural
Gas Co. v. PublicService Comm'n, 270 U. S.552; National
Labor RelationsBoard v. CentralMissouri Telephone Co.,
115 F. 2d 563; United States v. Erie R. Co., 280 U. S. 98;
United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative,307 U. S. 533;
Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U. S. 95; State Tax
Comm'n v. Interstate Gas Co., 284 U. S.41; Public Utilities Comm'n v. Attleboro Steam & Elec. Co., 273 U. S.83;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105;
In re Billings Gas Co., 35 P. U. R. (N. S.) 321; Hines v.
Davidowitz, 312 U. S.52; Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co. v.
Jackson & EasternRy. Co., 271 U. S.246; O'Brienv. Western Union TelegraphCo., 113 F. 2d 539; Kentucky Natural
Gas Corp. v. Public Service Comm'n, 28 F. Supp. 509,
aff'd 119 F. 2d 417; People ex rel. N. Y. C. R. Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 233 N. Y. 113; Erie R. Co. v. New York,
233 U. S. 671; Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Hardwicke
FarmersElev. Co., 226 U. S.426; MissouriPacific R. Co. v.
Stroud, 267 U. S.404.
Solicitor General Fahy, and Messrs. RichardS. Salant,
William S. Youngman, Richard J. Connor, and Gregory
Hankin filed a brief on behalf of the Federal Power Commission, as amicu$curiae, urging reversal.
MR.CHIEF JUsTicE SToNE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On complaint of appellee, Central*Illinois Public Service Company, which is engaged in the distribution of
natural gas to consumers in various cities and towns in
Illinois, appellee, Illinois Commerce Commission, -made
its order requiring appellant, Illinois Natural Gas Company, to supply the Central Company with natural gas
and to establish the, pipe line connection necessary for

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court,

314 U. S.

that purpose. In the proceedings before the Commission,
appellant contended that its entire operations and business in Illinois constitute interstate commerce and challenged the Commission's exercise of its jurisdiction and its
order, as in conflict with the commerce clause and the provisions of the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat. 821-833, 15
U. S.C. §§ 717-717w. Section 7 (c), 15 U. S. C. § 717f (c),
it was contended, prohibits such extension of facilities
and sale of gas to distributors without a certificate of
public convenience and necessity from the Federal Power
Commission.
On review, the Illinois Circuit Court sustained the order
and the Illinois Supreme Court affirmed, 375 Ill. 634, 32
N. E. 2d 157, holding that the activities of appellant
affected by the Commission's order constitute intrastate
commerce, to which the provisions of the Natural Gas Act
do not apply, and that those activities are, therefore, subject to state regulation. The case comes here on appeal
under § 237 of the Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S. C.
§ 344 (a).
Appellant, an Illinois corporation, is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company,
which owns and operates a natural gas pipe line system
extending from gas fields in Texas, Kansas and Oklahoma
across Illinois and into Indiana. Appellant owns a pipe
line system wholly in Illinois, whose transmission pipe
lines connect at -various points in Illinois with the main
line of Panhandle Eastern. Appellant, by long'term con-tract, purchases its supply of gas from Panhandle Eastern
and transports it through its own lines to local gas distributing utilities in Illinois, to which it sells the gas for
distribution to consumers in Illinois cities and towns. It
also sells and delivers gas to several industrial consumers
in the state. The gas moves continuously, under pressure
applied by Panhandle, from the gas fields until it enters
appellant's transmissiQn lines, where appellant reduces

ILLINOIS GAS CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE CO. 503
498

Opinion of the Court.

the pressure according to the needs of its service. After
the reduction of pressure, the gas continues to move in
appellant's lines until it passes into the service pipes of
the local distributors, or industrial users, where the pressure is again substantially reduced. The Central Illinois
Public Service Company is distributing natural gas to
consumers in several Illinois towns and cities, which it
purchases for resale from Universal Gas' Company, and
takes from the pipe line of the latter at the Illinois state
line. Universal, in turn, acquires the gas in Indiana from
Panhandle Eastern, and from Kentucky Natural Gas
Company.
The Illinois Commission found that appellant's operations in the sale of the gas to distributors in the state are
wholly intrastate commerce; that the supply of gas capable
of passing through Central's pipe line is inadequate to supply the Illinois communities served by it.- The Commission then ordered appellant to extend its pipe line so as
to connect with Central's pipe line system and to supply
gas in sufficient quantites to enable it to satisfy the needs
of its customers.
That appellant and Panhandle Eastern are engaged in
interstate commerce in the purchase and sale of the
natural gas which moves in a continuous stream from
points without the state into appellant's pipes within
the state seems not ,to be open to question. Missouri
v. Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298; Ozark Pipe Line
Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555; Peoples Gas Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 270 U. S. 550; State Tax
Commission v. Interstate Gas Co., 284 U. S. 41. Pursuant to the mutual agreement of the two companies,
the gas is transported in continuous movement through
the pipe line into the state and through appellant's pipes
to the service lines of the distributors, where appellant
delivers it to them. In such a transaction the particular
point at which the title and custody of the gas pass to

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
.Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

the purchaser, without arresting its movement to the
intended destination, does not affect the essential interstate nature of the business. See Peoples Gas Co. v.
Public Service Commission, supra, 554; Pennsylvanza v.
West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, 587; United Fuel Gas Co.
v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 277, 280-281.
But appellee argues, as the State Supreme Court held,
that although the sale of the gas and its movement into
the state is interstate commerce, that commerce comes
to an end when appellant reduces the gas pressure before
its delivery into the service pipes of the distributors. In
consequence, it is asserted, the sale of the gas to the
distributors is intrastate commerce subject to state regulation by the Commission's order, and is therefore not
within the purview of the Natural Gas Act, which is
said to be applicable only to interstate commerce.
This Court has held that the retail sale of gas at the
burner tips by one who pipes the gas into the state, or
by one who' is a local distributor acquiring the gas from
another who has similarly brought it into the state, is
a sale in intrastate commerce, since the interstate commerce was said to end upon the introduction of the gas
into the service pipes of the distributor. Public Utilities
Commission v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236; East Ohio Gas Co.
v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465. in applying this
mechanical test for determining when interstate ,commerce ends and intrastate commerce begins, this Court
has held that the interstate transportation and the sale
of gas at wholesale to local distributing companies is
-not subject to state control of rates, Missouri v. Kansas
Gas Co., supra; see Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, supra, 245; cf. Public -Utilities Commission v.
Attleboro Co., 273 U. S. 83, 89, or to a state privilege tax,
State Tax Commission v. Interstate Gas Co., supra.
Yet, state regulation of local retail rates to ultimate
consumers has been sustained where the gas so dis-

ILLINOIS GAS CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE CO. 505
498

Opinion of the Court.

tributed was purchased at wholesale from one who had
piped the gas into the state, Public Utilities Commission
v. Landon, supra,as has a state tax measured by receipts
from local retail sales of gas by one who has similarly
brought the gas into the state. East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax
Commission, supra.
. In other cases, the Court, in determining the validity
of state regulations, has been less concerned to find a point
in time and space where the interstate commerce in gas
ends and intrastate commerce begins, and has looked to
the nature of the state regulation involved, the objective
of the state, and the effect of the regulation upon the national interest in the commerce. Cf. South Carolina
Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 185, 187,
et seq.; Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113, 114;
Duckworth v. Arkansas, ante, p. 390. Thus, in Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. PublicService Commission, 252 U. S. 23,
where natural gas was transported by pipe line from one
state into another and there sold directly to ultimate local
consumers, it was held that, although the sale was a part
of interstate commerce, a state public service commission
could regulate the rates for service to such consumers.
While the Court recognized that this local regulation
would to some extent affect interstate commerce in gas, it
was thought that the control of rates was a-matter so peculiarly of local concern that the regulation should be
deemed within state power. Cf. Arkansas Louisiana Gas
Co. v. Dept. of Public Utilities,304 U. S. 61. And, similarly, this Court has sustained a non-discriminatory tax
on the sale to a buyer within the taxing state of a commodity shipped interstAte in performance of the sales contract, not upon the ground that the delivery was not a
part of interstate commerce, see East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax
Commission, supra, but because the tax was not a prohibited regulation of, or burden on, that commerce. Wil-

OCTOBER TERM. 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

oil Corporationv. Pennsylvania,294 U. S. 169; McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, 50. In Southern
Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 148, 156-57, on which the
Illinois Supreme Court relied, we held only that the sale of
gas to a local industrial consumer by one who was piping
the gas into the state was a local business sufficient to
sustain a franchise tax on the privilege of doing business
within the state, measured by all the taxpayer's property
located there, including that used for wholesale distribution of gas to local public service companies.
In the absence of any controlling act of Congress, we
should now be faced with the question whether the interest
of the state in the present regulation of the sale and distribution of gas transported into the state, balanced
against the effect of such control on the commerce in its
national aspect, is a more reliable touchstone for ascertaining state power than the mechanical distinctions on
which appellee relies. But we are under no necessity of
making that choice here, for Congress, by the Natural
Gas Act, has brought under national control the very
matters which the state has undertaken to regulate by
the order.
An avowed purpose of the Natural Gas Act of June 21,
1938, was to afford, through the exercise of the national
power over interstate commerce, an agency for regulating the wholesale distribution to public service companies
of natural gas moving interstate, which this Court had
declared to be interstate commerce not subject to certain
types of. state regulation. H. Rep. No. 709, Committee
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 75th Cong., 1st
Sess., April 28, 1937.1 By its enactment, Congress under'The Committee said of the pioposed bill:
"It confers jurisdiction upon the Federal Power Commission over
the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the sale
in interstate commerce of natural gas for resale for ultimate public
consumption for domestic, commercial, industrial, or any other use.

ILLINOIS GAS CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE CO. 507
498

Opinion of the Court.

took to regulate a defined class of natural gas distribution,
without the necessity, where Congress has not acted, of
drawing the precise line between state and federal power
by the litigation of particular cases. By § 1 (b), 15
U. S. C. § 717 (b), the Act is restricted in its application
"to the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, to the sale in interstate commerce of natural gas
for resale for ultimate public consumption for domestic,
commercial, industrial, or any other use, and to naturalgas companies engaged in such transportation or sale . . ."
And by § 2 (6), 15 U. S. C. § 717a (6) "natural-gas company" means a person (including a corporation) engaged
in the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce
or the sale in interstate commerce of such gas for resale.
Sections 4, 5, 6, 15 U. S. C. § 717 c, d, e, give the Federal
Power Commission extensive control over the rates at
which the gas is sold for resale. Under § 7 (a), 15 U. S. C.
§ 717f (a) the Commission has authority to order naturalgas companies to extend their systems to establish physical
connections of their transportation facilities with those of
The States have, of course, for many years regulated sales of natural
gas to consumers in intrastate transactions. The States have also
been able to regulate sales to consumers even though such sales are
in interstate commerce, such sales being considered local in character
and in the absence of congressional prohibition subject to State regulation. (See Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission
(1920), 252 U S. 23.) There is no intention in enacting the present
legislation to disturb the States in their exercise of such jurisdiction.
However, in the case of- sales for resale, or so-called wholesale sales,
in interstate commerce (for example, sales by producing companies to
distributing companies) the legal situation is different. Such transactions have been considered to be not local in character and, even
in the absenc6 of Congressional action, not subject to State regulation.
(See Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co. (1924), 265 U. S. 298, and Public
Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co. (1927), 273
U. S. 83.) The basic purpose of the present legislation is to occupy
this field in which the Supreme Court has held that the States may

not act."

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

distributors, and to sell gas to them. Section 7 (b) prohibits the abandonment of the facilities of natural-gas
companies without approval of the Commission. Section
7 (c), here involved, provides that "No natural-gas company shall undertake the construction or extension of any
facilities for the transportation of natural gas to a market
in which natural gas is already being served by another
natural-gas company, or acquire or operate any such facilities or extensions thereof, or engage in any transportation by means of any new or additional facilities, or sell
natural gas in any such market," without the Federal Commission's certificate of public convenience and necessity.
We think it plain that these provisions, read in the light
of the legislative history, were intended to bring under
federal regulation wholesale distribution, like that of
appellant, of gas moving interstate. Appellant engages
in interstate commerce in gas and in its interstate transportation, as those terms had been defined by this Court,
before the adoption of the Act. After the gas is brought
into the state, appellant makes the first sale to distributors
for resale, to which the Act in terms applies, and which
the cases last mentioned defined as a part of the commerce
subject in some respects to-the exclusive regulation of Congress. Cf. Parkerv. Motor Boat Sales, Inc., ante, p. 244.
Section 7 of the Act commits to the Federal Commission
the control of extensions and abandonment of the transportation facilities of natural-gas companies, their
physical connection with those of distributors and sales
to distributors, and prohibits extensions, such as the state
commission has now ordered, into an area already served
by another natural-gas company, unless the Commission
has first granted a certificate of public convenience and
necessity. Since the communities here are supplied by
the Universal and Central companies, which transport the
gas interstate, they constitute a market already served by
a natural-gas company within § 7 (c) and § 2 (6) of the
Act.

ILLINOIS GAS CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE CO. 509
498

Opinion of the Court.

The Federal Commission has ruled that it has jurisdiction under the Act over companies which, like appellant,
sell at wholesale to local distributors gas moving interstate. Re Billings Gas Company, 35 P. U. R. (N. S.)
321; Re East Ohio Gas Company, 28 P. U. R. (N. S.) 129.
The proceedings of the Commission under § 7 (c) indicate
the many important matters which it takes into consideration in determining whether an extension of facilities in
a case such as this should be permitted.2
In determining the scope of the federal power over the
proposed extension of facilities and sale of gas, it is unnecessary to scrutinize with meticulous care the physical
characteristics of appellant's business, in order to ascertain whether, as the court below held, the interstate commerce involved in bringing the gas into the state ends
before delivery to distributors. In any case, the proposed
extension of appellant's facilities is so intimately associated with the commerce, and would so affect its volume
moving into the state and distribution among the states,
as to be within the Congressional power to regulate those
matters which materially affect interstate commerce, as
well as the commerce itself. Southern Ry. Co. v. United
'In In re Kansas Pipe Line & Gas Co., No. G-106 and In re
North Dakota Consumers Gas Co., No. G-119, October 24, 1939, it
inquired:
(1) whether the applicant possessed a supply of natural gas adequate to meet those demands which it was reasonable to assume would
be made upon it; (2) whether there existed in the territory proposed
to be served customers who could reasonably be expected to use such,
gas service; (3) whether the facilities proposed to be constructed would
be adequate to meet the estimated demands for gas in the area;
(4) whether applicant possessed adequate financial resources with
which to construct the facilities proposed; (5) whether the cost of
construction of the facilities proposed was adequate and reasonable;
(6) whether anticipated fixed charges, were reasonable; (7) whether
the rates proposed to be charged were reasonable, comparing in that
connection the proposed rates with those of other natural-gas companies
already serving the territory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

States, 222U. S. 20; Houston,E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342; Railroad Comm'n of Wisconsin v.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; see United States
v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 119-120.
As Congress, by § 7 (a) (c) of the Act, has given plenary
the Federal Commission to regulate extenauthority
sions of gastotransportation
facilities and their physical connection with those of distributors, as well as the sale of gas
to them, and since no certificate of public convenience and
necessity, required by § 7 (c), has been granted to appellant by the Federal Commission for the proposed extensions and sale, the state commission was without power to
order them.
Rfversed.
MR. JUsTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

EX PARTE DON ASCANIO COLONNA.
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRITS OF
PROHIBITION AND MANDAMUS.

No. -,

original.

Decided January 5, 1942.

In view of § 7 (b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act and of the state
of war existing between this country and Italy, an application to
this Court by the Italian Ambassador, praying for process looking
to the relase of a vessel and cargo owned by Italy from a libel
proceeding in a District Court, will not be entertained. P. 511.
Motion for leave to file denied.

Mr. Homer L. Loomis for petitioner.
PER CURIAM:

Petitioner, the Royal Italian Ambassador, seeks leave
to file in this Court a petition for writs of prohibition and
mandamus, directed to the United States District Court

