OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

488

Syllabus.

314 U. S.

courts. In addition to the statutory proisions referred
to above, Article 7065a-8 (e) regulates the pleadings in
suits by the Attorney General to collect the tax, and
Article 7065a-9 determines the venue of such suits.
Consequently, while it was clearly intended by Article
7065a-7 to create a lien in favor of the State, we must conclude that of necessity it was nothing more than an inchoate and general lien. Certainly it did not of its own
force divest the taxpayer of either title or possession. It
could not become specific until the exact amount of the
taxes due had been determined, and it could not be enforced without the assistance of the courts. Like the tax
lien in New York v. Maclay, supra,it served "merely as a
caveat of a more perfect lien to come." 288 U. S. at
294.
We are not now called upon to decide whether the chattel mortgages held by Dailey are entitled to priority over
the claim of the United States.8 We hold only that the
tax claim of the United States is entitled to priority over
the tax claim of Texas. The case is remanded to the
Court of Civil Appeals for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MORTON SALT CO. v. G. S. SUPPIGER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49.

Argued December 10, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.

1. A corporation, engaged through a wholly-owned subsidiary in the
business of selling salt tablets to the canning trade, and which also
The texts of the mortgages are not contained in the record: and
Dailey did not appear in this Court.

MORTON SALT CO. v. SUPPIGER CO.
488

489

Opinion of the Court.

owned a patent on a machine for depositing such tablets in the
process of canning, made a practice of licensing canners to use its
machines, but only upon condition that the tablets used with them

be bought from the subsidiary. Held:
(1) That this use of the patent monopoly to restrain competition
in the marketing of the unpatented tablets for use with the patented
machines, and to aid in the creation of a limited monopoly in the
tablets not within that granted by the patent, is contrary to the

public policy of the United States evinced by the Constitution and
the patent law. P. 491.
(2) The patentee while engaged in such practice can not have
an injunction to restrain the making and leasing of infringing
machines. P. 492.
2. It is a principle of general application that courts, and especially
courts of equity, may appropriately withhold their aid where the
plaintiff is using the right asserted contrary to the public interest.

P. 492.
117 F. 2d 968, reversed.
CERTIoRARi,

313 U. S. 555, to review the reversal of a

decree, 31 F. Supp. 876, dismissing a bill to enjoin alleged
infringements of a patent, and for an accounting.
Mr. Clarence E. Mehlhope, with whom Mr. Walter A.
Scott was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Estill E. Ezell and Lawrence C. Kingsland, with
whom Messrs. Edmund C. Rogers and Robert H. Wendt
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent brought this suit in the district court for
an injunction and an accounting for infringement of its
Patent No. 2,060,645, of November 10, 1936, on a machine for depositing salt tablets, a device said to be useful
in the canning industry for adding predetermined amounts
of salt in tablet form to the contents of the cans.
Upon petitioner's motion, pursuant to Rule 56 of the
Rules of Civil Procedure, the trial court, without passing

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opuinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

on the issues of validity and infringement, granted summary judgment dismissing the complaint. It took the
ground that respondent was making use of the patent to
restrain the sale of salt tablets in competition with its
own sale of unpatented tablets, by requiring licensees to
use with the patented machines only tablets sold by respondent. The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
reversed, 117 F. 2d 968, because it thought that respondent's use of the patent was not shown to violate § 3 of
the Clayton Act, 15 U. S. C. § 14, as it did not appear
that the use of its patent substantially lessened competition or tended to create a monopoly in salt tablets.
We granted certiorari, 313 U. S. 555, because of the
public importance of the question presented and of an
alleged conflict of the decision below with B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 117 F. 2d 829, and with the principles
underlying the decisions in Carbice Corp. v. American
Patents Corp., 283 U. S&27, and Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber
Co., 302 U. S. 458.
The Clayton Act authorizes those injured by violations:
tending to monopoly to maintain suit for treble damages
and for an injunction in appropriate cases. 15 U. S. C.
§ § 1, 2, 14, 15,26. But the present suit is for infringement
of a patent. The question we must decide is not. necessarily whether respondent has violated the Clayton Aef,
but whether a court of equity will lend its aid to protect the
patent monopoly when respondent is using it as the effective means of restraining competition with its sale of an
unpatented article.
Both respondent's wholly owned subsidiary and the
petitioner manufacture and sell salt tablets used and useful in the canning trade. The tablets have, a particular
configuration rendering them capable of convenient use in
respondent's patented machiries. Petitioner makes and
leases to canners unpatented salt depositing machines,

MORTON SALT CO. v. SUPPIGER CO.
488

491

Opinion of the Court.

charged to infringe respondent's patent. For reasons we
indicate later, nothing turns on the fact that petitioner
also competes with respondent in the sale of the tablets,
and we may assume for purposes of this case that petitioner is doing no more than making and leasing the alleged infringing machines. The principal business of respondent's subsidiary, from which its profits are derived,
is the sale of salt tablets. In connection with this business, and as an adjunct to it, respondent'leases its patented
machines to commercial canners, some two hundred in all,
under licenses to use the machines upon condition and
with the agreement of the licensees that only the subsidiary's salt tablets be used with the leased machines.
It thus -appears that respondent is making use of its
patent monopoly to restrain competition in the marketing of unpatented articles, salt tablets, for use with the
patented machines, and is aiding in the creation of a limited monopoly in the tablets not within that granted by
the patent. A patent operates to create and grant to the
patentee an exclusive right to make, use and vend the
particular device described and claimed in the patent.
But a patent affords no immunity for a monopoly not
within the grant, Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306
U. S. 208, 228, 230; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States,
309 U. S.436, 456, and the use of it to suppress competition in the sale of an unpatented article may deprive the
patentee of the aid of a court of equity to restrain an
alleged infringement by one who is a competitor. It is
the established rule that a patentee who has granted a,
license on condition that the patented invention be used
by the licensee only with unpatented materials furnished
by the licensor, may not restrain as a contributory infringer one who sells to the licensee like materials for like
use. Motion PicturePatentsCo. v. Universal Film Mfg;
Co;, 243 U. S. 502,510; CarbiceCorp.v. American Patents

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Corp., supra; Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., supra; cf.
United Shoe Machinery Co. v. United States, 258 U. S.
451, 462; InternationalBusinessMachines Corp.v. United
States, 298 U. S. 131, 140.
The grant to the inventor of the special privilege of a
patent monopoly carries out a public policy adopted by
the Constitution and laws of the United States, "to promote the Progress of Science and useful. Arts, by securing
for limited Times to . . . Inventors the exclusive Right
." to their "new and useful" inventions.
United
States Constitution, Art. I, § 8, cl. 8; 35 U. S. C. § 31.
But the public policy which includes inventions within the
granted monopoly excludes from it all that is not embraced in the invention. It equally forbids the use of
the patent to secure an exclusive right or limited monopoly
not granted by the Patent Office and which it is contrary
to public policy to grant.
It is a principle of general application that courts, and
especially courts of equity, may appropriately withhold
their aid where the plaintiff is using the right asserted
contrary to the public interest. Virginian Ry. Co. v.
Federation,300 U. S. 515, 552; Central Kentucky Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 290 U. S. 264, 270-73; Harrisonville v. Dickey Clay Co., 289 U. S. 334, 337-38; Beasley
v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 191 U. S. 492, 497; Securities
& Exchange Comm'n v. U. S. Realty Co., 310 U. S. 434,
455; United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 194. Respondent argues that this doctrine is limited in its application to those cases where the patentee seeks to restrain
contributory infringement by the sale to licensees of a
competing unpatented article, while here respondent
seeks to restrain petitioner from a direct infringement,
the manufacture and sale of the salt tablet depositor. It
is said that the equitable maxim that a party seeking
the aid of a court of equity must come into court with
clean hands applies only to the plaintiff's wrongful conduct in the particular act or transaction which raises the

MORTON SALT CO. v. SUPPIGER CO.
488

493

Opinion of the Court.

equity, enforcement of which is sought; that where, as
here, the patentee seeks to restrain the manufacture or
use of the' patented device, his conduct in Using the
patent to restrict competition in the sale of salt tablets
does not foreclose him from seeking relief limited to an
injunction against the manufacture and sale of the infringing machine alone.
Undoubtedly "equity does not demand that its suitors
shall have led blameless lives," Loughran v. Loughran,
292 U. S. 216, 229; cf. Key8to?ie Driller Co. v. Excavator
Co., 290 U. S. 240, 241-45, but additional considerations
must be taken into account where maintenance of the
suit concerns the public interest as well as the private
interests of suitors. Where the patent is used as a means
of restraining competition with the patentee's sale of an
unpatented product, the successful prosecution of an infringement suit even against one who is not a competitor
in such sale is a powerful aid to the maintenance of the
attempted monopoly of the unpatented article, and is
thus a contributing factor in thwarting the public policy
underlying the grant of the patent. "Maintenance and
enlargement of the attempted monopoly of the unpa.
ented article axe dependent to some extent upon persuading the public of the validity of the patent, which the
infringement suit is intended to establish. Equity may
rightly withhold its assistance from such a use of the
patent by declining to entertain a suit for infringement,
and should do so at least until it is made to appear that
the improper practice has been abandoned and that the
consequences of the misuse of the patent have been
dissipated. Cf. B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, post, p. 495.
The reasons for barring the prosecution of such a suit
against one who is not a competitor with the patentee
in the sale of the unpatented product are fundamentally
the same as those which preclude an infringement suit
against a licensee who has violated a condition of the
license by using with the licensed machine a competing

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

unpatented article, Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co., supra, or against a vendee of a
patented or copyrighted article for violation of a condition for the maintenance of resale prices, Adams v.
Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, 210
U. S. 339; Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Straus
v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490; Boston
Store v. American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8; cf.
United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 485.
It is the adverse effect upon the public interest of a successful infringement suit, in conjunction with the
patentee's course of conduct, which disqualifies him to
maintain the suit,, regardless of whether the particular
defendant has suffered from the misuse of the patent.v
Similarly equity will deny relief for infringement of a
trademark where the plaintiff is misrepresenting to the
public the nature of his product either by the trademark
itself or by his label. ManhattanMedicine Co. v. Wood,
108 U. S. 218; Worden v. CaliforniaFig Syrup Co., 187
U. S. 516; Leather Cloth Co. v. American Leather Cloth
Co., 11 H. L. 522, 541-45; see also, for application of the
like doctrine in the case of copyright, Edward Thompson
Co. v. American Law Book Co., 122 F. 922, 926; Stone
& M'Carrick v. Dugan Piano Co., 220 F. 837, 841-43.
The patentee, like these other holders of an exclusive
privilege granted in the furtherance of a public policy,
may not claim protection of his grant by the courts
where it is being used to subvert that policy.
It is unnecessary to decide whether respondent has
violated the Clayton Act, for we conclude that in any
event the maintenance of the present suit to restrain
petitioner's manufacture or sale of the alleged infringing
machines is contrary to public policy and that the district
court rightly dismissed the complaint for want of equity.
Reversed.
Mit JusTicE RoBERTs took no part in the decision of
this case.

