402

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

314 U. S.

I do not suppose the skies will fall if the Court does
allow Arkansas to rig up this handy device for policing
liquor on the ground that it is not forbidden by the commerce clause, but in doing so it adds another to the already
too numerous and burdensome state restraints of national
commerce and pursues a trend with which I would have
no part.

GRAY, DIRECTOR OF THE BITUMINOUS COAL
DIVISION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL. v. POWELL ET .L., RECEIVERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 18. Argued October 21, 22, 1941.-Decided December 15, 1941.
1. Upon the facts of this case, a determination by the Director of the
Bituminous Coal Division that a railroad company was not the
"producer" of certain coal consumed by it, and therefore that the
coal was not exempt, under §§ 4-11 (1), and 4-A, from the provisions of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, should not be disturbed
onreviewunder§6 (b). P.411.
2. On review under § 6 (b) of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, of
an administrative determination that the consumer of certain coal
was not the "producer" thereof and that therefore the coal was not
exempt under §§ 4-11 (1) and 4-A of the Act, the function of the
court is fully performed when it determines that there has been a
fair hearing, with notice and an opportuntiy to prewent the circumstances and arguments to the administrative bady, and an application of the statute in a just and reasoned manner. P. 411.
3. In order that the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, § 4-11, may apply
to particular transactions in coal, it is not essential that there be
a sale or other transfer of title by the producer. P. 414.
4. It is within the power of Congress to provide for the determination of who are "producers" under the Bituminous Coal Act of
1937. P. 417. •
114 F. 2d 752, reyersed.

311 U. S. 644, to review a decree reversing
an order of the Director of the Bituminous Coal Division
CERTIORARI,

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Opinion of the Court.

denying a claim of exemption under the Bituminous Coal
Act of 1937. The decree below was affirmed here by an
equally divided court,. 312 U. S. 666; subsequently, a
petition for rehearing was granted, 313 U. S.596.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and
Messrs. Richard H. Demuth, Arnold Levy, Jesse B.
Messitte, and Abe Fortas were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. W. R. C. Cocke, with whom Messrs. Jos. F. John-

ston and Wm. H. Delaney were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondents, receivers of the Seaboard Air Line Railway
Company, seek from the Bituminous Coal Division of the
Department of the Interior an exemption of certain coal
from the Bituminous Coal Code on the ground that they
were both the producer and consumer of the coal. If Seaboard is held to be a producer-consumer, it is entitled to an
exemption by virtue of § 4-I (1) and § 4-A. These sections, together with others pertinent to the discussion, are
set out in a note below.'
'Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, 50 Stat. 72, 15 U. S. C. § 828 et. 8eq.
(1940). "SEc. 3. (a) There is hereby imposed upon the sale or other
disposal of bituminous coal produced within the United States when
sold or otherwise disposed of by the producer thereof an excise tax
of 1 cent per ton of two thousand pounds.
"The term 'disposal' as used in this section includes consumption
or use (whether in the production of coke or fuel, or otherwise) by a
producer, and any transfer of title by the producer other than by sale.
"(b) In addition to the tax imposed by subsection (a) of this section, there is hereby imposed upon the sale or other disposal of bituminous coal produced within the United States, when sold or otherwise
disposed of by the producer thereof, which would be subject to the

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The application for exemption was filed before the National Bituminous Coal Commission August 4, 1937. The
first hearing was in September, 1937, before the examiners
for the Comnission. After the passage of the Reorganization Act of 1939, 53 Stat. 561, and the acquiescence of
Congress in Reorganization Plan No. II, 53 Stat. 1433, a
application of the conditions and provisions of the code provided
for mi'
section 4, or of the provisions of section 4-A, an excise tax in
an amount equal to 19%/ per centum of the sale price at the mine
in the case of coal disposed of by sale at the mine, or in the case of
coal disposed of otherwise than by sale at the mine, and coal sold otherwise than through an arms' length transaction, 191/2 per centum of the
fair market value of such coal at the time of such disposal or sale. In
the case of any producer who is a code member as provided in section 4
and is so certified to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue by the
Commission, the sale or disposal by such producer during the continuance of his membeiship.in the code of coal produced by him shall be
exempt from the tax imposed by this subsection.
"SEc. 4. The provisions of this section shall be promulgated by the
Commission as the 'Bituminous Coal Code', and are herein referred to as
the code.
"Producers accepting membership in the code as provided in section
5 (a) shall be, and are herein referred to as, code members, and the
provisions of such code shall apply only to such code members, except
as otherwise provided by subsection (h) of part II of this section.
"For the purpose of carrying out the declared policy of this Act, the
code shall contain the following conditiops and provisions, which are
intended to regulate.interstate commerce in bituminous coal and which
shall be applicable oily to matters and transactions in or directly
affecting interstate. commerce in bituminous coal:
PART II-MAu~rING.

"(e) No coal subject to the provisions of this section shall be sold
or delivered or offered for sale at a price below the minimum or above
the maximum therefor established by the Commission, and the sale
or delivery or offer for sale of coal at a price below such minimum
or above such maximum shall constitute a violation of the code: Pro-

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Opinion of the Court.

division headed by a Director was established by the Secretary of the Interior, known as the Bituminous Coal
Division. Order No. 1394, as amended by Order No. 1399
of July 5, 1939, 4 F. R. 2947. Thereafter, the hearings
proceeded before the Division, and the order denying the
exemption was passed by the Director, June 14, 1940.
vided, That the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to a lawful
and bona fide written contract entered into prior to June 16, 1933.
"(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to coal consumed by the producer or to coal transported by the producer to
himself for consumption by him.
"SEc. 4-A. Whenever the Commission upon investigation instituted
upon its own motion or upon petition of any code member, district
board, State or political subdivision thereof, or the consumers' counsel,
after hearing finds that transactions in coal in intrastate commerce
by any person or in any locality cause any undue or unreasonable6 advantage, preference, or prejudice as between persons and localities in
such commerce on the one hand and interstate commerce in coal on
the other' hand, or any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce in coal, or in any manner directly affect
interstate commerce in coal, the Commission shall by order so declare
and thereafter coal sold, delivered or offered for sale in such intrastate commerce shall be subject to the provisions of section 4.
"Any producer believing that any commerce in coal is not subject
to the provisions of section 4 . .. may file with the Commission an
application, verified by oath or affirmation for exemption, setting
forth the facts upon which such claim is based. . . Within a reasonable time after the receipt of any application for exemption the Commission shall enter an order granting, or, after notice' and opportunity
for heaiing, denying or otherwise disposing of such application. ...
Any applicant aggrieved by an order denying or otherwise disposing of
an application for exemption by the Commission may obtain a review of
such order in the manner provided in subsection (b) of section 6.
"Snc. 6 .... (b) Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the
Commission in a proceeding to which such person is a party may obtain
a review of such order in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the United
States, within any circuit wherein such person resides or has his principal place of business, or in the United States Court of Appeals for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

Better practice might have suggested a dismissal, since
the Director found Seaboard was not a producer. Subsequently, Seaboard sought review under § 6 (b) and obtained the decree, now under consideration, reversing the
Director's order. The opinion accompanying the decree
held that the facts of this case brought the Seaboard under
the classification of producer. 114 F. 2d 752. As the
question of federal law was important' and unsettled by
any decision of this Court, certiorari was granted, J. C.
§ 240 (a), 311 U. S. 644, and the decree below affirmed by
an equally divided Court, 312 U. S. 666. The present consideration is upon a petition for rehearing. 313 U. S.
596.
Seaboard, a coal-burning railroad, is a large consumer
of bituminous coal. The arrangements here in question
District of Columbia, by filing in such court, within sixty days after
the entry of such order, a written petition praying that the order of
the Commission be modified or set aside in whole or in part. A copy
of such petition shall be forthwith served upon any member of the
Commission and thereupon the Commission shall certify and file
in the court a transcript of the record upon which the order complained
of was entered. Upon the filing of such transcript such court shall
have exclusive jurisdiction to affirm, modify, and enforce or set aside
such order, in whole or in part. No objection to the order of the
Commission shall be considered by the court unless such objection shall
have been urged below. The finding of the Commission as to the
facts, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive....

"Sc. 17. As used in this Act"(c) The term 'producer' includes all individuals, firms, associations,
corporations, trustees, and receivers engaged in the business of mining
coal."
The Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, 50 Stat. 72, has been extended
to April 26, 1943. Act of April 11, 1941, c. 64, 55 Stat. 134.
'Cf. Consolidated Indiana Coal Co. v. National Bituminous CoaZ
Commission, 103 F. 2d 124; Keystone Mining Co. v. Gray, 120 F. 2d 1,
decided after allowance of certiorari.

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Opinion of the Court.

are with three mines; but as there are no significant differences in the plans by which the coal is extracted, we
shall describe the contracts relating to one only, the
William-Ann Mine, owned by the United Thacker Coal
Company and the Cole and Crane Real Estate Trust.
This was the earliest arrangement. It originated in
May, 1934, when the coal code of the National Industrial
Recovery Act was in effect.' The first step was a lease of
coal lands by the Seaboard from the landowners which
granted to Seaboard the right to mine coal for fourteen
months, with the privilege of yearly renewals, which originally were not to run beyond June 30, 1939. Successive
extensions have continued its effect since that time. During the spring of 1936, two extensions of six weeks each
were agreed upon, specifically in view of the case of Carter
v. CarterCoal Co., 298 U. S. 238, decided May 18, 1936.
The Cartercase involved the Bituminous Coal Act of 1935,
the predecessor of the present act. A per-ton royalty, as
rent, was reserved to the landowners with an annual minimum of $16,200 payable quarterly. The lease was terminable on fifteen days notice, if the landowners terminated the contractor's lease, about to be referred to, for
the contractor's default.
The second step in this' arrangement was for the landowner lessors of the lease just described to lease simultaneously to a contractor selected by Seaboard the mining
equipment on the demised premises, consisting of buildings, tipples, machinery and other appurtenances necessary or convenient for extracting the coal. This equipment was sufficient for reasonably economical mining. It
was further provided in the coal lease that the term and
'National Recovery Administration, Registry No. 702-45, Approved
Code No. 24, Code of Fair Competition for the Bituminous Coal Industry, promulgated September 18, 1933. Article VI listed selling below
code price as an unfair practice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

the renewal privileges of the equipment lease should be
coextensive with those of the coal lease.
The final step was an operating contract between the
contractor, Daniel H. Pritchard, referred to in the land
lease as the lessee of the facilities for mining, and Seaboard for the extraction of the coal by the contractor or
supplier and the delivery of it to Seaboard for consumption. This contract also was made simultaneously with
the coal lease. It contained a provision requiring the contractor to obtain a lease of the mining equipment, in accordance with that segment of the entire plan referred to
in the preceding paragraph. For a flat per-ton cost on a
sliding scale dependent upon volume, the supplier agreed
to mine the coal. His compensation was subject to variation by fluctLAtions in costs beyond his control, such as
taxes, wages, machinery and explosives. Alternatively,
payment could be made on a cost basis plus ten cents per
ton for the contractor's compensation. Thi' operating
contract ran for the same term and had the same renewal
privileges as the coal lease contract heretofore described
and has been continued in effect by extensions made for
the same terms as the extensions of the coal lease. The
supplier was called an independent contractor in the document. This he was, at least in the sense that he managed the mining in his own way without a right of direction in Seaboard. He agreed that the coal supplied would
be clean, i. e., free of non-combustible matter, and would
pass inspection of Seaboard for compliance with its specifications. The supplier paid and assumed all obligations
to the landowner except the royalty, including taxes. He
carried employer's liability and casualty insurance, and
agreed to bear the cost of all repairs, additions or betterments, even under the alternate cost-plus plan, as well
as those described as commissary or welfare expenses.
Seaboard, in an extension agreement, obtained the privilege of termination on sixty days' notice, if the supplier

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Opinion of the Court.

defaulted by not lowering his contract price to meet the
market price of similar coal.
The landowner, the contractor and Seaboard, by this
series of co6rdinated and synchronized contracts, caused
the entire output of the mine to be delivered to Seaboard
'for its consumption, at a fixed price, subject to variations
for factors beyond the supplier contractor's control. The
alternative cost-plus plan was not employed. U nder the
contractor's agreement, the contractor assumed all risks
of operation, as heretofore explained, and all obligations
of Seaboard to the landowner, except the royalty payments. This made a fixed cost to Seaboard, for coal, of
supplier's contract price plus the royalty per ton as rent.
It was a short term, one year, contract-with the price con-,
trolled by the market in view of the competitive price provision. Seaboard furnished no facilities or equipment for
mining or loading.
The other two arrangements, one with the Glamorgan
Coal Lands Corporation, landowner, and Glamorgan
Coals, Inc., the operator, for which latter corporation Peerless Coal Corporation is substituted by consent, and the
other with Chilton Block Coal Company and the DingessRum Coal Company, landowners by lease and in fee, and
Daniel H. Pritchard, operator, vary only in details from
the William-Ann contracts set out above.
From the several arrangements the Seaboard obtained
about half of its annual requirements, estimated for 1936
at one million tons. There is no question as to the interstate character of the commerce involved. The coal is
mined in Virginia and West Virginia, and consumed in a
number of other South Atlantic states.
The Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 followed the invalidation of the Bituminous Coal Conservation Act of 1935 by
Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, and the abandonment of the N. R. A. Code Of Fair Competition after the
decision in Schechter Corp. v. United States; 295 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

495. These legislative enactments sought a solution of
the economic difficulties of the soft coal industry, which
were bringing bankruptcy to operators and an even worse
condition, unemployment, to the miners. Each time legislation was attempted, the conclusion was reached that
price stabilization offered the best remedy. The industry
found the same answer. Appalachian Coals, Inc. v.
United States, 288 U. S.344. This Court has determined
that the present 1937 act is within the constitutional
powers of Congress. Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310
U. S. 381.
This purpose of stabilization of conditions through a
fixed price scheme met a difficult problem in the captive
coal mines. The 1935 act taxed the value of such coal at
the mine. It defined captive coal as including "all coal
produced at a mine for consumption by the producer or
by a subsidiary or affiliate thereof." 49 Stat. 1008. As
the coal consumed by a producer apparently was deemed
by Congress, when considering the present act, not to
offer the same disturbing effect to prices as non-code, open
market coal," a method of exemption was provided.
§§ 4-I (1) and 4-A, note 1, supra. Congress, however,
did not define exempt coal as it had captive coal in the 1935
act. While a definition was inserted in the Senate,' it
'Testimony of Chairman Hosford of the Bituminous Coal Commission, Hearings before Committee on Interstate Commerce, U. S.
Senate, 74th Cong., 2nd Sess., on S. 4668, pp. 32 and 33.
'81 Cong. Rec. 3136, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.
"It is proposed, on page 30, line 17, to strike out the period after
the word 'him', and to insert a comma and the words 'and for the
purpose of this subsection the term 'producer' also includes all individuals, partnerships, and corporations which are found by the Commission, upon the effective date of this act, bona fide and not for the
purpose of evading the provisions of this act, to be owned by, or to be
under common ownership with, a producer, provided such a producer
does not sell any part of his production on the commercial market.' . .
The purpose of the amendment is simply to extend the exception

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Opinion of the Court.

was eliminated in the conference report.' As a result, the
determination of exempt coal was left to the administrative body. § 4-A, note 1, supra.
Determination. of Producer.-We are thus brought
squarely to decide whether the Director's finding that Seaboard is not the producer of this coal is to be sustained.
By § 4-A, note 1, supra, the determination of this issue
rests with the Director, subject to the review, as obtained
herein, by a Circuit Court of Appeals, provided by § 6 (b).
Section 4-A states: "Any producer believing that any commerce in coal is not subject to the provisions of section
4 ... may file with the Commission an application, verified by oath or affirmation for exemption, setting forth the
facts upon which such claim is based ....
Within a
reasonable time after the receipt of any application for
exemption the Commission shall enter an order granting,
or, after notice and opportunity for hearing, denying or
otherwise disposing of such application." In a matter left
specifically by Congress to the determination of an administrative body, as the question of exemption was here
by § § 4-I (1) and 4-A, the function of review placed upon
the courts by § 6 (b) is fully performed when they determine that there has been a fair hearing, with notice and an
opportunity to present the circumstances and arguments
to the decisive body, and an application of the statute in
a just and reasoned manner. Shields v. UtahIdaho R. Co.,
305 U. S. 177, 180, 181, 184, 185, 187.
Such a determination as is here involved belongs to the
usual administrative routine. Congress, which could have
carried by subsection (1), on page 30, so as to include under the definition of the word 'producer' a wholly owned subsidiary or. other legal
entity having identical ownership. That is the whole purpose.
"The question is on agreeing to the amendment offered by the Senator from Ohio.
"The amendment was agreed to."
*H. Rep. No. 578, 75th Cong., -1st Sess., pp. 1, 8.

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

legislated specifically as to the individual exemptions from
the code, found it more efficient to delegate that function to
those whose experience in a particular field gave promise of
a better informed, more equitable, adjustment of the conflicting interests of price stabilization upon the one hand
and producer consumption upon the other. By thus committing the execution of its policies to the specialized personnel of the Bituminous Coal Division, the Congress
followed a familiar practice.' Of course, there is no difference between the skill of employees in a division of a
department and those in a board, commission or administration.
Where, as here, a determination has been left to an administrative body, this delegation will be respected and the
administrative conclusion left untouched. Certainly, a
finding on Congressional reference that an admittedly constitutional act is applicable to a particular situation does
not require such further scrutiny. Although we have here
no dispute as to the evidentiary facts, that does not permit
a court to substitute its judgment for that of the Director.
United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 235 U. S.
314, 320; Swayne & Hoyt, Ltd. v. United States, 300 U. S.
297, 304; Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331, 336. It is
not the province of a court to absorb the administrative
functions to such an extent that the executive or legislative agencies become mere fact-finding bodies deprived of
the advantages of prompt and definite action.
Congress could not "define the whole gamut of remedies
to effectuate these policies in an infinite variety of specific
situations." Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313
U. S. 177, 194. Just as in the Adkins case [310 U. S. 381]
the determination of the sweep of the term "bituminous
"Treasury-UnitedStates v. Johnston, 124 U. S. 236, 249; InteriorSwamp lands-Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. McComas, 250 U. S. 387,
392; Customs Appraisers-Passavant v. United States, 148 U. S. 214,
219; Post Office-Bates & Guild Co. v. Pagne, 194 U. S.106.

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Opinion of the Court.

coal" was for this same administrative agency, so here
there must be left to it, subject to the basic prerequisites
of lawful adjudication, the determination of "producer."
The separation of production and consumption is complete
when a buyer obtains supplies from -a seller totally free
from buyer connection. Their identity is undoubted when
the consumer extracts coal from its own land with its
own employees. Between the two extremes are the innumerable variations that bring the arrangements closer
to one pole or the other of the range between exemption
and inclusion. To determine upon which side of the
median line the particular instance falls calls for the
expert, experienced judgment of those familiar with the
industry. Unless we can say that a set of circumstances
deemed by the Commission to bring them within the concept "producer" is so unrelated to the tasks entrusted by
Congress to the Commission as in effect to~deny a sensible
exercise of judgment, it is the Court's duty to leave the
Commission's judgment undisturbed.
Consumers of bituminous coal are naturally desirous
of obtaining supplies free of the tax and free of the risk
and investment typical of production. If independent
contractors are employed for extraction, there is an obvious breach in the full consumer-producer identity. This
may create consequences which would not follow if the enterprise itself, through its own employees, accomplished
the same ultimate result. Often in the law, the selection
of a particular business form as, for instance, carrying on
a common business through two corporations, may create
legal liability, Edwardsv. Chile Copper Co., 270 U. S. 452,
456, although such relation to other connections may result
in diversity of legal treatruent. Compare, for instance,
United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366,
and United States v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 238
U. S. 516.

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The shortness of the leases, the freedom from investment
in coal lands or mining facilities, the improbability of
profit or loss from the mining operations, the right to cancel when cheaper coalmay be obtained in the open market,
all deny the position of producer to the railroad.
We view it as immaterial that the Company might have
itself operated a captive mine and so escaped the price
provisions of the act by virtue of the exception of
§ 4-II (1), note 1, supra. It chose to employ the scheme
in question here. It considered it advantageous to avoid
the risks of production and now must bear the burdens of
a determination that other entities than itself are the
producers. Cf. Superior Coal Co. v. Department of
Finance,377 Ill. 282, 36 N. E. 2d 354, 358, 360. The choice
of disregarding a deliberately chosen arrangement for
conducting business affairs does not lie with the creator of
the plan. Higginsv. Smith, 308 U. S. 473, 477.
Code Coverage.--Seaboard contends that the
coal here
involved is not affected by the code § 4-II because there is
no sale or other transfer of the title to the coal by the
producer. As to this point, in Seaboard's view, since it
as lessee of the mineral rights is the owner of the coal
when it is extracted and until it is consumed and therefore
no title ever passes, it is immaterial whether or not it or
its suppliers of the coal are determined to be the producer.
Support for the conclusion that there must be a transfer
of title to bring the coal under the code, § 4-I, is found
by Seaboard in the preoccupation of Congress in sales,
which attitude it feels is shown by the continuous reference in the provisions of the Act to sales or other transfers
of title. Further support is drawn for the position by
reference to § 3 (a), where "disposal" is declared to include
consumption by a producer or any transfer of title other
than by sale. Reliance 'is placed also on § 3 (b), which
by a tax of 19/2 per cent of the selling price impels adherence to the code when coal "which would be subject

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Opinion of the Court.

to the application of the conditions and provisions of the
code provided for in section 4, or of the provisions of
section 4-A" is sold or otherwise disposed of by the
producer.
Had we held that Seaboard was the producer, the pertinency of this argument would disappear because Seaboard
would be both producer and consumer, and therefore this
coal would be entitled to exemption under § § 4-I (1) and
4-A. As we determine otherwise, however, it is essential
to examine the soundness of the position asserted by Seaboard, to wit, that coal produced by the instrumentalities
is not subject to the provisions of § 4-I for the reason
that it is not sold nor otherwise disposed of by the producers. We conclude that coal extracted under the circumstances of this case is within the scope of the code
provisions of § 4-II.
Examination of the code discloses that minimum prices
for code coal are fixed by joint action of the district boards
and the Director. § 4-I (a), II (a). 'Thereafter no code
coal may be sold at prices less than the fixed minimum except at the risk of severe penalties. Code coal is that produced by code members, i. e., coal producers who accept
membership in the code. § 5 (a). All producers of bituminous coal within the statutory districts are eligible
for membership, and therefore all coal produced by any of
these producers is potentially code coal. The code regulates the coal and not the producer. In order to force the
eligible coal within the code, an excise tax of 191/2% of the
sale price is placed upon all bituminous coal "sold or otherwise disposed of by the producer thereof, which would be
subject to the application of the conditions and provisions
of the code," with a blanket exemption from this tax of
sales or other disposal by code members.
The core of the Act is the requirement that coal be put
under the code or pay the 192 per cent excise. We said
in Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins,*310 U. S. 381, 392, that the

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

sanction tax applied to non-code members. Since they
were not members, it was there contended that their coal
would not be subject to the code, but it was explained in
the Adkins case that the code was intended to apply to
sales "in or directly affecting interstate commerce in bituminous coal," § 4, 3rd paragraph, and that non-code
coal "would be" subject to the code when it was interstate
coal or coal affecting interstate commerce and therefore
subject to the regulatory power of Congress. So here, the
purpose of Congress, which was to stabilize the industry
through price regulation, would be hampered by an interpretation that required a transfer of title, in the technical
sense, to bring a producer's coal, consumed by another
party within the ambit of the coal code. We find no necessity to so interpret the act. TI~is conclusion seems to us
in accord with the plain language of § 3 (a) and (b) providing for a tax on "other disposal" as well as sale. The
definition of disposal as including "consumption or use by
a producer, and any transfer of title by the producer other
than by sale" cannot be said to put a meaning on disposal
limited to the inclusion. Cf. Federal Land Bank of St.
Paulv. Bismarck Lumber Co., ante, p. 95, and cases cited
at 99-100. It is true that § 4-I1 (e) speaks of a violation
of the price provisions by "sale or delivery or offer for
sale of coal at a price below" the minimum, without reference to "other disposition," the phrase generally used;
but the failure to include those words at that point does
not, we think, justify an interpretation that coal covered
by the code may be disposed of otherwise than by a transfer of title without penalty. We think the language of
§ 5 (b) relating to findings on orders punishing for violation of the code shows this to be true. It reads, so far as
pertinent, as follows:
"... the Commission shall specifically find

. . .

the

quantity of coal sold or otherwise disposed of in violation
of the code

. . .;

the sales-priqe at the mine or the market

value at the mine if disposed of otherwise than by sale at

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

the mine, or if sold otherwise than through an arms' length
transaction, of the coal sold or otherwise'disposed of by
such code member in violation of the code or regulations
thereunder." 50 Stat. 84.
This con0lusion is fortified by an examination of the
tax section of the 1935 act from which the present § 3 is
obviously derived. In the first or 1935 act, captive coal
was taxed along with other coal. The tax was laid upon
the "sale or other disposal of all bituminous coal produced
within the United States." It was "15 per centum on
the sale price at the mine, or in the case of captive coal
the fair market value of such coal at the mine." 49 Stat.
993, § 3. Evidently the draftsman thought df the sale of
free coal and of the "other disposal" of captive coal. See
further, on the question of the meaning of a sale, In re
Bush Terminal Co., 93 F. 2d 661, 663.
Finally, respondent contends that, if the act is construed
to apply to the contractual arrangements just considered,
it is beyond the power of Congress under the Commerce
and Due Process Clauses of the Constitution. This is said
to be so because there is no power in Congress to regulate
the price paid for the service of mining coal or the consideration for mining rights, and to do so would violate the
Fifth Amendment. We are, in this review by certiorari,
determining only the question of whether the Seaboard is
a producer under the Act. Congressional power over that
problem is beyond dispute. Currihv. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1;
United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100; Sunshine Coal Co.
v. Adkins, 310 U. S.381.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of the case.
MR. JusTIcF, ROBERTS:
I think the judgment should be affirmed. There are
limits to which administrative Officers and courts may ap428670--42-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

propriately go in reconstructing a statute so as to accomplish aims which the legislature might have had but which
the statute itself, and its legislative history, do not disclose. The present decision, it seems to me, passes that
limitation.
The case involves an Act of Congress which, in implementing its declared purpose and intent, carefully delimits
by inclusive and exclusive definition those who shall and
those who shall not be subject to its regulatory provisions.
Upon a record in which there is not a single disputed fact,
the bare question is presented whether the words the
Congress used bring the respondents within the Bituminous Coal Code or exclude them from its operation. In
answering that question, the Director made no controverted finding of fact, exercised no judgment as to what
the relevant circumstances were, but merely decided that
the meaning of the statute was that the respondents'
transactions required that they become members of the
Code or suffer the penalty of the 19/2% tax for failing
to join the Code. If the Director was in error, his error was
a misconstruction of the Act which created his office; and
that error, under all relevant authorities, is subject to court
review. It is specifically made so subject to review by the
statute in question.1
The Bituminous Coal Act, as its preamble declares, is
aimed at the regulation of prices and unfair methods of
competition in the marketing of bituminous coal in interstate commerce, 2 as the means of promoting that commerce and relieving it from practices and methods which
burden and obstruct it. The body of the Act is confined
to the enforcement of these purposes and none other.
To accomplish the declared end, the statute adopts a
comprehensive scheme for the regulation of prices and
'Section 6 (b) and (d).
'Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 388, 393.

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

Roamirs, J., dissenting.

trade practices in the marketing- of bituminous coal in
interstate commerce. It creates a Commission and, by
§ 4, directs the Commission to promulgate a Bituminous
Coal Code, to which coal producers who are "code members" are made subject. By Part II of § 4, the Commission
is given authority to fix minimum and maximum prices for
code members in conformity to specified standards. Subdivision (i) of § 4, Part II, specifies methods of competition in the marketing of coalwhich are declared to be
unfair and violations of the Code.
Section 3 (a) imposes a tax of 1 cent per ton on all coal
"sold or otherwise disposed 'of by the producer" and
defines disposal, for the purposes of this section alone, as
including "consumption or use" by a producer and any
transfer of title by a producer other than by sale. The
acknowledged purpose of this subsection is the levy on
all coal taken out of the ground, and used by whomsoever,
of a small tax to pay the expense of the administration of
the Act. The respondents admit their*liability for this
exaction. They have paid this tax and no question arises
in respect of it.
Section 3 (b), as a means of securing compliance with
the regulatory provisions of § 4, imposes a penal tax of
19 % of the sale price of the coal, or of its fair market
value when disposed of otherwise than by a sale, on all
the coal sold or otherwise disposed of by a producer to
.whom the regulatory provisions as to price and unfair
methods of competition included in § 4 are applicable.
Only those who are producers of coal and would be subject
to the provisions of the Code are liable to the penalty
tax as an alternative to joining the Code and thus coming within the regulatory provisions applicable -to such
Code members. Such regulatory provisions are concerned
only with those who sell or market coal.
Subdivision (1) of Part II of § 4 declares: "The provisions of this section shall not apply to coal consumed by the

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

314 U.

S.

producer or to coal transported by the producer to himself
for consumption by him." The respondents insist that
this subsection plainly exempts them from becoming members of the Code and that, in pursuance of the subsection,
the Director should have granted their application for
exemption.
Some stress is laid by the petitioners on § 17 (c) which
declares that:
"As used in this Act,
"(c) The term 'producer' includes all individuals, firms,
associations, corporations, trustees, and receivers engaged
in the business of mining coal."
It seems plain enough that this provision was not intended to nullify subsection (1) of § 4, Part II. The evident purpose was to make it clear that, under whatever
form the business was done, the operator should come
under the applicable provisions of the statute. This subsection has no relevance to the question presented in this
case.
The term "producer" is not a technical term or a term
of art, but the statute has not left the Director or the
courts without guides respecting the meaning of the word
as used in the statute. It is the Director's duty to observe
those guides in applying the statute and, if he fails so
to do, it is the obligation of the courts to observe them in
performing their statutory duty to review his determination. The context, the purpose of the Act, and the means
adopted to carry them into effect, make clear the meaning
of the word "producer" as used in the statute. This court
obviously fails in performing its duty and abdicates its
function as a court of review if it accepts, as the opinion
seems to do, the Director's definition of "producer" and
then proceeds to accommodate the meaning of related provisions to the predetermined definition. So to do is a

GRAY v. POWELL.
402

421

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

complete reversal of the normal and usual method of construing a statute.
The legislative history a demonstrates, and the opinion
of the court concedes, that the purpose of § 4 (Pt. II (1))
was to exclude from the provisions of the Act regulating
prices and other matters of competition in interstate marketing, coal produced from "captive mines"; that is, coal
produced by the owner of a mine and consumed by him
without placing it on the market. It is, as it must be,
also conceded that subdivision (1) excludes from the operation of the Act one who mines coal by his own employes,
upon land owned or leased by him, and consumes it in
his business or industry. The only possible differentiation
between the respondents' method of conducting the business and that of the usual captive mine lies in the fact
that the respondents' coal is mined by an independent contractor instead of by employes. That circumstance, however, will not justify the statement that respondents do
not produce the coal, any more than it would justify the
statement that they would not transport coal to themselves, within the meaning of the Act, if they shipped it
by a common carrier who was an independent contractor.
The circumstance that the coal is mined by a contractor
instead of an employe, or transported by a common carrier, cannot have any more, or any different, effect upon.
the subjects of regulation-prices and unfair methods of
competition-in the one case than in the other. In both
cases, the owner would consume coal which would otherwise come on the market. In neither case would the coal
be brought into competition with marketed coal. In each
case, the owner would remain free to buy coal'on the market whenever the market price fell below the cost of production at his own mine.
'Hearings before the Committee on Interstate Crnnerce of the
Senate, 2d Sess., 74th Cong., on S. 4668, pp. 32, 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

314 U. S.

Subdivision (1) cannot appropriately be construed to
deny respondents the right to be excluded from the operation of the Act upon their application as provided in
§ 4-A when there are plainly no affirmative provisions of
the Act subjecting them to its regulation. It will hardly
be denied that, by respondents' total operation, coal is
produced. If they are not the producers, because they
pay a contract price instead of wages for its production,
they are not subject to the 19 % tax which applies only
to producers; and they are thus exempt from the only
sanction which would compel them to become Code members subject to the regulatory provisions of the Act. Since
they market no coal, the provisions of § 4 relating to
prices and methods of competition in the marketing of coal
are not applicable to them. On the other hand, if the
independent contractor whom respondents employ to mine
the coal is deemed the producer of the coal, he likewise
is exempt from the regulatory provisions and also exempt
from the 19 % penal tax. For, even if he be called a producer, he neither markets nor sells the coal and he cannot
be said to dispose of coal which he does not own. Disposal
must mean something more than physical production, delivery, or transportation of the coal of another. If it
were otherwise, the superintendent of a captive mine
would be subject to the tax because he is engaged in mining
coal and delivering it to the owner who consumes it. It is
well known that, in many coal fields, coal is gotten out
by employing a miner who in turn employs his own gang
to assist him in the mine. If the Director's position is correct, this method of operation would subject the owner and
operator of a captive mine to regulation under the Act.
That view would be plainly untenable.
.
The vice in the construction which the court now adopts,
apparently only because the Director has adopted it, lies
in the fact that this construction is of practical significance

UNITED STATES v. EMORY.
Statement of the Case.

402

only as it is preliminary to regulation of features of the coal
industry other than prices and methods of competition
in the marketing of coal. Congress has not seen fit to
prescribe such regulation. It is clear that the attempted
subjection of respondents to the control of the Commission
is without congressional authority.
.The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BYRNES join in
this opinion.
UNITED STATES v. EMORY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SPRINGFIELD COURT OF APPEALS OF

MISSOURI.

No. 33. Argued November 10, 1941.-Decided December 15, 1941.
1. The priority established by R. S. § 3466 for debts due to the
United States in cases in which "an act of bankruptcy is committed,"
is applicable where, upon a creditor's petition, a receiver has
been appointed to liquidate the assets of an insolvent corporation.
P. 426.
2: The purpose of R. S. § 3466 is to secure adequate public revenues
to sustain the public burden, and it is to be construed liberally in
order to effectuate that purpose. P. 426.
3. In an equity receivership proceeding in a state court, a claim of the
United States arising under the National Housing Act is entitled,
under R. S. § 3466, to priority over claims for wages. P. 426.
4. The right of the United States to priority in such case is not affected
by state law nor by § 64a of the Bankruptcy Act; nor is it inconsistent with the National Housing Act. Pp. 427, 429.
143 S. W. 2d 318, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

313 U. S. 552, to review a judgment denying

a claim of the United States to priority. The judgment
of the state court of first instance was affirmed by the
Springfield Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court of
Missouri denied a petition for certiorari.

