534

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
314 U. S.

Syllabus.

Our answer to Question 1 is "Yes." Our answer to
Question 2 (a) is "No". Our answer to Question 2 (b)
is "Yes." It is not necessary to answer Questions 3
and 4.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the decision of

this case.
BOARD OF TRADE OF KANSAS CITY E'
UNITED STATES ET AL.

AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 143. Argued November 18, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.
1. Upon a thorough investigation of the grain rate structure in the
western district, the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribed
rate-break combinations as the exclusive basis of transit privileges at
primary markets. However, transit privileges at interior points on
routes passing through a primary market were allowed on the basis
of lower rates in effect over competing routes between the same
points. Held that, considering the whole history of grain rate
regulation, the differentiation between primary markets and interior
points thus made by the Commission was not an undue or unreasonable discrimination forbidden by the Interstate Commerce Act.
P. 544.
2. The contention that the orders of the Commission are invalid
because they deprive the primary markets of natural competitive
advantages is rejected. P. 548.
3. Whether a discrimination is unreasonable under the Act is a question of fact that has been confided by Congress to the judgment and
discretion of the Commission, and upon which its decisions, made
the basis of administrative orders operating in futuro, are not to be
United States, 91 F. 2d 120; United States v. Robinson, 158 F. 410,
412; United States v. Nordenholz, 95 F. 2d 756; United States v.
Reed, 117 F. 2d 808; United States v. Costello, 47 F. 2d 684; Henry
v. United States, 288 F. 843; United States V. Libichian, 113 F. 2d
368; United States v. Rosenfeld, 109 F. 2d 908.

BOARD OF TRADE v. UNITED STATES. 535
534

Opinion of the Court.

disturbed by the courts except upon a showing that they are
unsupported by evidence, were made without a hearing, exceed constitutional limits, or for some other. reason amount to an abuse of
power. F. 546.
36 F. Supp. 865, affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
APPEAL

Messrs. M. W. Borders and Samuel J. Wettrick for
appellants.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and
Messrs. Smith R. Brittingham,Jr. and Daniel W. KnowIton were on the brief, for the United States et al.; and
Mr. Frank A. Leffingwell for the Texas Industrial Traffic
League et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
We have before us on this appeal orders embodying a
series of determinations made by the Interstate Commerce Commission after inquiries into the grain rate
structure stretching over a period of twelve years. The
plaintiffs are millers, elevator companies, boards of trade,
grain exchanges, and other business interests in Kansas
City, St. Louis, Omaha, St. Joseph, Atchison, Leavenworth, and Minneapolis, the great grain centers known
in the trade as "primary markets." The Commission's
orders, they complain, create an unlawful discrimination
under the Interstate Commerce Act, §§ 1 (5), 2, 3 (1), by
prohibiting the interruption of shipments of grain for the
purpose of being stored, marketed, or processed-technically characterized as transit privileges-at these primary markets on the lower rates under which these
privileges are available at competing interior points (i. e.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S,

grain centers other than primary markets). The District Court dismissed the complaint, 36 F. Supp. 865, and
the case is here on appeal. Judicial Code § 210; 28
U. S. C. § 47 (a).
As one phase of the effort to relieve agricultural distress, Congress in 1925 by the Hoch-Smith Resolution
directed the Interstate Commerce Commission to make a
thorough investigation of the rate structure of common
carriers "in order to determine to what extent and in
what manner existing rates and charges may be unjust . . . or unduly preferential, thereby imposing undue
burdens, or giving undue advantage as between the various localities and parts of the country, the various
classes of traffic, and the various classes and kinds of
commodities, and to make, in accordance with law, such
changes, adjustments, and redistribution of rates and
charges as may be found necessary to correct any defects
so found to exist." 43 Stat. 801; 49 U. S. C. § 55.
Accordingly, on September 30, 1926, the Commission
instituted a comprehensive investigation into the rates
and practices affecting grain and grain products in the
Western District.' The Commission called its proceeding "unusual," involving as it did "three score and more
of major issues, affecting every part of a vast territorial
domain, each of which would .ordinarily present a case
of more than average importance." 164 I. C. C. 619,
697. Extensive hearings were held, and on the basis of
a huge record of some 53,000 pages of testimony, including 2,100 exhibits, 20,000 pages of memoranda, exceptions, and oral arguments, the Commission on July 1,
1930, issued a report and order prescribing maximum
rates for grain and grain products. 164 I. C. C. 619.
A supplemental report and order were issued on April
I The Western District is defined as the area "on and west of the
Mississippi River, west of Lakes Superior and Michigan, and west
of and including Illinois."

BOARD OF TRADE v. UNITED STATES. 537
534

Opinion of the Court.

13, 1931. 173 I. C. C. 511. Because the Commission
did not take evidence relating to the-drastic changes in
economic conditions due to the depression occurring between the close of its hearings and the date of its orders,
this Court set aside the orders. Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S. 248. New and extensive hearings were thereupon held, and on October
22, 1934, 'the Commission in an elaborate report affirmed
some of its earlier findings and modified others. 205
I. C. C. 301. Upon further consideration of the record,
the Commission issued a supplemental order to remove
discriminations between interior points.. 215 I. C. C.
83. Dealers at the primary markets thereupon filed formal complaints seeking modification of that part of the
Commission's orders which differentiated between transit
privileges at primary markets and those at interior
points. Hearings upon these complaints produced more
than 7,000 pages of new testimony and over 250 exhibits.
On July 27, 1937, the Commission authorized, but did
not require, the carriers to meet the requests of the
primary markets. 223 I. C. C. 235. The carriers having
declined to act on this authorization, the Commission
was petitioned to enter a mandatory order. Proceedings
were reopened, new arguments were heard, and on July
12, 1938, the Commission found that the prescribed rates
did not subject the primary markets to any "undue
prejudice and disadvantage." 229 I. C. C. 9, 16. Upon
reconsideration this conclusion was affirmed on March
13, 1939. 231 I. C. C. 793. To upset these findings and
to strike down the orders based upon them the present
suit was filed.
Since the transit privilege is at the core of this litigation, a brief exposition of its mechanics and manipulations becomes necessary. The privilege of transit
enables grain to be shipped from point A to point B,
there to be stored, marketed, or processed, and later

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

reshipped to point C at a rate less than the combination
of the separate rates from A to B and B to C. See Transit Case, 24 I. C. C. 340; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
United States, .279 U. S. 768, 777-79; Locklin, Economics of Transportation (1935) 122-23, 629-31. The
shipper pays the local rate on the inbound shipment to
the transit point, B in our illustration. A receipted
freight bill specifying the point of origin, the rate paid,
and other pertinent data, is recorded with the transit
bureau as evidence of intention of further transportation
of the inbound grain or its equivalent. When the outbound shipment is tendered to the carrier, the freight
bill is surrendered in order that the shipper may obtain
an outbound rate lower than that which he would otherwise be compelled to pay. The privilege belongs, as it
were, to both the grain and its shipper. "The benefit
attaching to grain shipped into the primary market is
commonly so broad that it is transferable not only to
another owner of the same grain, but to like grain coming frQm the same country point." Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 768, 778.
This privilege was available in the primary markets
under two different rate schemes: (1) the "overhead
through rate" and (2) the "rate-break combination."
(1) An overhead through rate is the rate from an originating point to the final destination, or to a gateway like
Chicago, via a particular point. Thus, on a shipment of
grain from Enid, Oklahoma, to Chicago via Kansas City,
the overhead through rate was 38.5 cents per hundred.
pounds. Under this rate, grain reaching Kansas City
could receive the various privileges of transit upon payment of 23.5 cents (the local rate from Enid to Kansas
City) upon the inbound shipment, and the difference
(known as tlie "transit balance") between the overhead
through rate, 38.5 cents and the 23.5 cents inbotmd rate,
upon the outbound shipment.

BOARD OF TRADE v. UNITED STATES. 539
534

Opinion of the Court.

(2) On a "rate-break" basis, however, grain moved on
a combination of the local or flat rate from the originating point to the primary market and the "proportional"
rate from that market to a gateway or the final destination. The primary markets therefore came to be known
as "rate-break" points. The "proportional" rate, representing an average of transit balances under overhead
through rates, was designed to offset the competitive advantages of lines going through rate-break points as
against lines starting there. The significance of the ratebreak combination lay in the fact that for many points
of origin there were no overhead through rates. In the
above example, the proportional rate on outbound grain
shipments from Kansas City' to Chicago was 17.5 cents.
The applicable rate on a shipment of grain from an originating point having no through rate to Chicago via Kansas City, with or without transit at Kansas City, was a
combination of the local rate to Kansas City and the
proportional rate from Kansas City to Chicago.
Thus, the difference between the two systems permitting transit at primary markets was the rate at which the
outbound traffic moved. Under the rate-break combination the outbound shipment moved at the proportional
rate; under the overhead through rate, it moved at the
transit balance. The availability of these two rate bases,
the Commission found, gave rise to serious discriminations: "Whether outbound shipments are at proportional
rates or transit balances depends upon the selection of
the inbound freight bill: If the inbound freight bill
covers a shipment from an -origin point from which there
is no overhead route with transit to final destination,
the outbound shipment is at the proportional rate. But
grain from a point from which there is no overhead rate
with transit can, under present practice, be substituted
for grain from a point from which there is such an overhead rate with transit, and can be forwarded, upon pres-

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

entation of the inbound expense bill covering inbound
transportation from the latter point, at the transit balance due that expense bill." 164 I. C. C. 619, 634.
"The uncertainty in advance as to the outbound basis
of charge arises from the dependence of that charge upon
a check of the individual shipper's range of inbound
billing. The outbound charge will be a transit balance
if the inbound freight bill surrendered covers a shipment
from an origin from which there is a one-factor through
rate less than the rate-break combination, and will be
the higher proportional rate if the inbound freight bill
surrendered covers a shipment from an origin from which
there is no such one-factor through rate. Transit balances will vary with the measure both of the through
rates and of the inbound rates to the transit point.
"The advantage to the user of the transit balance over
the user of the higher proportional rate is evident, and
increases in the ratio of the increase in the storage capacity of the respective cash-grain dealers at the ratebreak markets. In other words, the greater the storage
capacity the wider the selection of inbound billing and
proportionately more transit balances." 205 I. C. C.
301, 335.
In the judgment of the Commission these practices
"tended to disrupt the rate-break combinations, disorganize the general rate structure, make uncertain in advance the outbound basis of charge, give an undue preference to the users of transit balances over the users of
proportional rates, depress the price of grain at the ratebreak markets and, by direct reflection, at the country
points, and reduce the revenues of the carriers." 205
I. C. C. 301, 334.
Thus, the issue before the Commission was "whether
the rates through the primary markets shall be made on
the combination of flat rates to and proportional rates
from the markets exclusively, or in part, or at all." Put-

BOARD OF TRADE v. UNITED STATES. 541
534

Opinion of the Court.

ting in the balance all the complex and conflicting interests, the Commission reached these conclusions: "Just so
long as transit balances remain a substantial factor in the
adjustment of rates from the primary markets, just so long
will there be undue preferences between outbound shippers, as well as general instability in rates resulting from
shippers seeking the translation of transit balances into
proportional rates. . . . The best interests not only of
the primary markets, but of the producer, consumer, and
carrier will be served by the fullest possible'application of
the rate-break combinations through primary markets."
164 I. C. C. 619, 644-45.2
Accordingly, it prescribed new rate-break combinations ' and made them applicable to transit both at priThe Commission specifically found that the adoption of the exclusive rate-break combination at the primary markets would give the
markets substantial competitive advantages over interior transit
points: "The proportional rate is applicable over all outbound lines
upon surrender of an inbound freight bill covering an inbound shipment by rail, whether the transportation through the rate-break
market is over a reasonably direct route, or not. It is the equivalent
in all respects, and more, of a local rate. . . . It is designed for the
final gathering in by the rate-break market, for through transportation
at less than the combinations of local rates that would otherwise apply,
of grain not procurable under one-factor through rates less than the
rate-break combinations (and resulting transit balances less than the
proportional), because of the limitations on out-of-line and back-haul
movement incident to the usual application of the one-factor through
rates Qnly over reasonably direct routes, and because of the further
usual requirement of outbound shipment from the transit point over
the rails of the inbound carrier. The proportional rates therefore
open up to the rate-break markets the widest possible range of originating and distributing.territory and afford, together with the larger
number of carriers usually found converging inbound to and radiating
outbound from the rate-break market, in the directibn of the normal
flow of the grain traffic, a decided advantage to that market over the
interior transit point." 205 I. C. C. 301, 340-41.
'The Commission revied existing rate-break combinations, reducing both the inbound flat rates and the outbound proportionals, and
ordered that the prescribed rate-break combinations be made the

542,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

mary_ markets and at interior points on routes passing
through such markets.' The exclusive rate-break combinations were not made applicable to interior points not on
routes passing through rate-break markets because the
rate-break combinations had no relevance to these points.
1641. C. C. 619, 645; 173 1. C. C. 511, 51Q--17.
A concrete illustration will rob this railroad jargon of
its mystery. The throligh rate over numerous routes
from KansasCity to Chicago was 16-cents. Some of these
M~utes pass through Omaha, from which the proportional
-rate was also 16 cents. Other routes from Kansas City to
Chicago do not pass through Omaha. Interior points
like Falls City and Nebraska City, which are on routes
through Omaha, had to pay 61/ cents, the local rate to
Omaha, plus 16 cents, the proportional rate from Omaha
to Chicago. But other interior points lying between Kan.
sas City and Chicago on routes not passing through
Omaha were required to pay only the 16 cents through
rate. The net result was that interior points on routes
passing through rate-break markets were placed at a substantial competitive disadvantage with interior points
not
on such routes.
. Dealers
at the interior points on routes passing through
rate-break markets like Omaha petitioned the Commission to modify its orders so as to remove this discrimination between interior points. They urged on the
Commission that, inasmuch. as the fundamental purpose
of the rate-break combinations was the establishment of
uniform proportional rates on outbound shipments from
exclusive basis of charge upon grain shipments moving through or
stopping for transit at primary markets, and that overhead through
rates less than the prescribed rate-break combinations be cancelled.
164 I. C. C. 619, 645.
' "The restriction is laid on the intermediate points other than the
market, as well as upon the market, in order not to discriminate against
the market in favor of the other intermediate points." 173 I. C. C.
511, 516.

BOARD OF TRADE v. UNITED STATES. 543
534

Opinion of the Court.

primary markets, this purpose would not be frustrated if,
in order to meet the lower through rate over competitive
routes, transit on the through rate were permitted at interior points on routes through rate-break markets. The
Com-mission found that the requested modification would
remove the discrimination between interior points without
subjecting the primary markets to any new substantial
competitive disadvantages. 215 I. C. C. 83, 92-3. It
found that under transit on an overhead through rate,
dealers at interior points operated under important competitive disadvantages. The through rates were applicable only on "reasonably direct," not "markedly circuitous" routes, and outbound shipments from the transit
point were usually limited to the rails of either the inbound carrier or a carrier participating with it in a joint
rate via the transit point. Dealers at rate-break markets,
on the other hand, were free from such restrictions as to
circuity of routes and choice of outbound carrier. The
proportional rate was applicable to all lines from primary
market to destination, regardless of the inbound shipment's point of origin. The Commission found this to be
a "substantial advantage to the transit operators at the
rate-break markets over the transit operators at the interior transit points." 215 I. C. C. 83, 91. Accordingly,
it modified its previous orders so as to permit transit at
interior points on routes passing through a primary market "on the basis of a lower rate in effect over a competing
route between the same points." 215 I. C. C. 83, 93.
To give this order practical application: At all interior
points lying on routes from Kansas City to Chicago,
transit privileges were available at the 16 cents rate, while
shipments stopping for transit at primary markets along
such routes, e. g., Omaha, Atchison, Leavenworth, and St.
Joseph, could move only at the rate-break combination
of the 6 cents inbound rate and the 16 cents outbound
proportional rate.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

The crux of this litigation is the validity of the differentiation between primary markets and interior points thus
made by the Commission in the setting of the whole history of grain rate regulation.
Dealers at the primary markets complained against
this differentiation. The Commission again canvassed
the perplexing factors of the tangled problem before it.
After pointing out that at the earlier stages of the grain
rate inquiry "especially the markets" had supported the
system of "rate-breaks at market points and overhead
rates with transit at local points," the Commission observed: "No extensive rate structure can be made perfect
nor can any rate structure be made permanent in any real
sense in a changing world. . . . The two Grain cases
together have demonstrated the impossibility, even on
the part of those most experienced, most competent, and
most expert, of seeing in advance the consequences of the
particular changes in rates and practices here under consideration. Apparently nothing but experience can furnish a demonstration, and even the demonstration of
experience may not prove to be conclusive unless it can be
had on g scale sufficiently large and at intervals of time
sufficiently close, and under substantially similar conditions." 223 I. C. C. 235, 245-46. It took occasion to
recall these guiding considerations from its first report:
"It would be impossible to take any comprehensive action
without adversely affecting certain of the conflicting interests upon this record. Nothing but experience can
demonstrate what the effect will be regarding certain of
these issues. . . . All parties should cooperate to make
careful note .of the effect upon their interests, with the
.view
to bringing to our attention from time to
time, after
a reasonable trial, those situations which may require
further consideration." 164 I. C. C. 619, 698. To yield
to the wish of the dealers of the primary markets would,
the Commission found, work "a hardship upon the milling

BOARD OF TRADE v. UNITED STATES. 545
534

Opinion of the Court.

industry at many intermediate points, with little or no
benefit to the markets, which would still be at a disadvantage in competing with other rate-break markets and
interior points on lower-rated routes." 223 I. C. C. 235,
245. It concluded, therefore, that the record did not justify the mandatory order sought by the markets. Instead
it authorized the carriers by appropriate tariffs to make
"restricted departures from the exclusive application of
proportional rates at rate-break points for a limited period
of time" upon condition that such departures "should be
surrounded by such effective safeguards as will make it
impossible to reestablish" the discriminations incident to
the double system of rates at primary markets. 223
I. C. C. 235, 246.
The carriers having declined to act on this authorization, the markets again sought a compulsory order. Upon
reargument, the Commission concluded that "the granting
of the transit requested would break down the rate-break
adjustment prescribed in the GrainCase; that said adjustment should be abandoned, if at all, only upon demonstrition of its failure as a workable adjustment, over an. adequate period of normal conditions in the grain trade; that
such a test has not been given the adjustment." 229
I. C. C. 9,16.8 Accordingly, the Commission dismissed the
complaints and withdrew its previous permission to the
carriers voluntarily to establish the rates requested by the
primary markets. After a second reargument the Commission adhered to this conclusion. 231 I. C. C. 793.
The appellants do not claim that the Commission's findings are devoid of proof or that they were reached without
observance of appropriate procedures. Their claim, in
5 To

rescind the previous modifications, the Commission found,

'Gwould deprive these interior transit points of the same kind of transit

accorded interior transit points on other routes and.., would, not
materially benefit complainants, who would still be confronted with

their major competition." 229 I C. C. 9, 14,
. 428670o--42-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

substance, is that whatever benefits the double system
affords the primary markets are natural advantages, and
that to deprive them of these advantages works an unlawful discrimination.
The Act forbids the Commission to establish a rate
structure which would give one transit point an "undue or
unreasonable preference or advantage" and would subject
another point to an "undue or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage." But this does not mean that the law
eompels identity of treatment for like services at different
places., It prohibits only "undue" or "unreasonable" discriminations. 'Whether a preference or advantage or
discrimination is undue or unreasonable or unjust is one
of those questions of fact that have been confided by
Congress to the judgment and discretion of the Commission . .. , and upon which its decisions, made the basis

of administrative orders operating in futuro, are not to
be disturbed by the courts except upon a showing that they
are unsupported by evidence, were made without a hearing, exceed constitutional limits, or for some other reason
amount to an abuse of power." ManufacturersRy. Co.
v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 481: see Nashville, C. &
St. L. Ry. v. Tennessee, 262 U. S. 318, 322; United States
v. ChicagoHeights Trucking Co., 310 U. S. 344, 352-53.
The process of rate making is essentially empiric. The
stuff of the process is fluid and changing-the resultant
of factors that must be valued as well as weighed. Congress has therefore delegated the enforcement of transportation policy to a permanent expert body and has
charged it with the duty. of being responsiVe to the
dynamic character of transportation problems. Cf. Raitroad Commission v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 310 U. S.
573, 581-82.
The wisdom of the narrow scope within which Colagress has confined judicial participation in the rate-making process iss trikingly vindicated by the history of this

BOARD OF TRADE v. UNITED STATES. 547
534

Opinion of the Court.

controversy. The Commission's laborious investigation
into the grain rate structure disclosed that discriminations 'were inseparable from the operation, side by side,
of two systems of rates allowing transit of grain at primary markets. This basic finding is not challenged.
And it is this fact which created the problem for solution
by the Commission. There was no ready answer either
in law reports or in economic experience. Any solution
had to rest on informed judgment. And judgment in a
situation like this implies, ultimately, prophecy based on
the facts in the record as illumined by the seasoned
wisdom of the expert body. In this perspective, the
Commission had several choices before it-but all inevitably rested upon trial and error. It might have
established the overhead through rate as the exclusive
basis of transit at primary markets. It might have
banked on the exclusive rate-break combination. It
might have abolished the privilege of free transit entirely.
Of only one thing could the Comissiori be completely
certain: no action could be taken without "adversely
affecting certain of the conflicting interests." 164
I. C. C. 619, 698. -Weighing the prospective gains and
hurts which were part of all of the proposed remedies,
the Commission decided upon the exclusive rate-break
combination. It did so, however, withe'full recognition
that the wisdom of its action had to meet the test of
experience. Therefore, it treated its cqnclusion as part,
of a continuing process, and requested the parties to. give
the system which it adopted a "reasonable trial," contemplating such further consideration as the practical
operation of the system would require. The. Commission refused the modifications asked by the appellants
because the rate-break adjustment was "entitled to a
thorough test over an adequate period of normal conditions in the grain trade" and it had "received no such ,
fair test up to the present time." *To grant the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

quested modifications would "break down the rate-break
adjustment." 229 I. C. C. 9, 15-16. These findings are
incontestable.
That the Commission itself was of divided mind in the
successive stages of this controversy emphasizes that the
problem is enmeshed in difficult judgments of economic
and transportation policy. Neither rule of thumb, nor
formula, nor general principles provide a ready answer.
We certainly have neither technical competence nor legal
authority to pronounce upon the wisdom of the course
taken by the Commission. It is not for us to tinker
with so sensitive an organism as the grain rate structure,
only a minor phase of which is caught in the record before us. If we were to grant the relief sought by the
appellants, we would be restoring evils which the exclusive rate-break adjustment was designed to removeevils which, for all we know, would be far more serious
than those complained of by the appellants.
What we have said sufficiently disposes of the suggestion that the orders of the Commission must be stricken
down because they wipe out natural competitive advantages of the primary markets. A rate structure found to
involve serious discriminations among shippers, carriers,
and transit points alike, is hardly a manifestation of
nature beyond the Commission's power to repair.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of opinion that the decree of
the District Court should be reversed.

