REITZ v. MEALEY.

33

Syllabus.

REITZ v. MEALEY, COMMISSIONER OF MOTOR
VEHICLES OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 21.

Reargued October 22, 1941.-Decided November 10, 1941.

1. Section 94-b of the Vehicle and Traffic Law of New York, as
originally enacted, provides that one against whom a judgment is
rendered for injury resulting from the operation of a motor car
and who fails to pay it within a time designated, shall have his
license and registration suspended for three years, unless in the
meantime the judgment is satisfied or discharged, except by discharge in bankruptcy; and that the suspension shall persist, after
the three years or the satisfaction of the judgment, and until the
licensee gives proof of his ability to respond in damages by the
procurement of insurance, the giving of a bond or the posting of a
deposit. Held consistent with due process of law and not in derogation of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 36.
2. The amendment of § 94-b, supra, by the Act of May 4, 1936, N. Y.
Laws, c. 448, which provides that "if the creditor consents in writing, the debtor may be allowed a license and registration for six
months from the date of such consent and thereafter until the
consent is revoked in writing, if proof of ability to respond to
damages is furnished," is not inconsistent with due. process of law.
P. 37.
3. Assuming that amendments of § 94-b, supra, by N. Y. Laws, 1936,
c. 448, id. 1939, c. 618, are contrary to the Bankruptcy Act because
of the power they purport to give the judgment creditor over- the
license of the debtor who has been discharged in bankruptcy, the
amendments are severable and their invalidity would not affect
proceedings based entirely on the original statute. P. 38.
4. Under the law qf New York, a statute, in itself constitutional, is
not affected by an unconstitutional amendment. P. 38.
5. Whether an amendment stands by itself as an independent enactment, or is incorporated in the setting of the act which it amends,
by a provision that the act "shall read as follows:" is a matter of
draftsmanship or legislative mechanics. It does not touch the substance of constitutionality. P. 39.
34 F. Supp. 532, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

APPFAL from a decree of the District Court of three

judges dismissing a bill to enjoin the above-named Commissioner from suspending the plaintiff-appellant's automobile driving license. The hearing below was on bill
and answer. The decree was affirmed here by an equally
divided Court, 313 U. S. 542; subsequently, a petition for
rehearing was granted, the judgment was vacated, and the
case was restored to the docket for reargument, 313 U. S.
597.
Mr. Harry A. Allan, with whom Mr. Daniel H. Prior
was on the brief, for appellant.

Mr. Jack Goodman, Assistant Attorney General of New
York, with whom Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney
General, and Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, were on

the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to restrain the appellee from enforcing a
suspension of the appellant's driver's license. The complaint alleges that the order suspending the license was
issued May 29, 1940, pursuant to § 94-b of the Vehicle and
Traffic Law of New York,' upon receipt by the appellee,
from the Clerk of the Supreme Court of Albany County,
of a transcript of a judgment, accompanied by evidence
of its finality and nonpayment, rendered against the appellant in the sum of $5,138.25, in an action to recover damages
for personal injuries caused by appellant's operation of an
automobile. It is alleged that on June 21,1940, the appellant was adjudicated a bankrupt and his cause referred to
a referee; that the judgment was scheduled as a debt; and,
although no discharge had been granted, the judgment is
a dischargeable debt. The complaint charges that § 94-b
'Consolidated Laws, c. 71.,

REITZ v. MEALEY.
33

Opinion of the Court.

violates the due process clause of the 14th Amendment and
is rendered void by §17 of the Bankruptcy Act.2 A temporary and a permanent injunction are prayed. A restraining order issued. The answer of the appellee admits
all of the relevant allegations except that the judgment
was dischargeable in bankruptcy. Upon the hearing of a
motion for injunction, based upon the bill and answer, a
court of three judges denied the injunction and dismissed
the bill.' At the argument before us it was admitted that
a discharge has been granted and that the judgment debt
is thereby discharged.
Section 94-b provides for suspension of the operator's
license and registration certificate of any person if a judgment against him, for injury to person or property resulting from the operation of a motor car, be not paid within
fifteen days, upon certification of the judgment, its finality, and nonpayment, to the commissioner by the county
clerk. It directs the commissioner to suspend the license
for three years unless, in the meantime, the judgment is
satisfied or discharged, except by a discharge in bankruptcy. The suspension persists after the expiration of
the three years or satisfaction of the judgment, until the
licensee gives proof of his ability to respond in damages
by the procurement of insurance, the giving of a bond, or
the posting of a deposit.' The county clerk is required
to certify to the commissioner any such judgment unappealed and unsatisfied for fifteen days after entry.
So the statute stood until May 4, 1936, when, by an
amendatory act,' a proviso was added that, if the creditor
consents in writing, the debtor may be allowed a license
and registration for six months from the date of such
consent and thereafter until the consent is revoked in
-11 U.S. C. § 35.
"34 F. Supp. 532.
'See § 94-c.
'New York Laws, 1936, c. 448.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314U.S.

writing, if proof of ability to respond to damages is furnished. A further amendment, of May 31, 1939, made it
the duty of the county clerk to certify the judgment only
upon written demand of the creditor or his attorney.
The purpose of the statute is clear. It is not a condition of the grant of license that the applicant shall have
insurance. Instead, the policy of the State is that, if a
driver has an accident in respect of which a judgment convicts him of negligence, his license will be suspended and
so remain unless he furnishes proof of his ability to respond for damage thereafter caused; and that, in any
event, it will be suspended for three years unless, in the
meantime, the judgment is satisfied or the creditor consents that the license be reinstated and remain in force.
First. The statute, leaving out of consideration the
amendments, is not obnoxious to the due process clause
of the 14th Amendment. The use of the public highways
by motor vehicles, with its consequent dangers, renders
the reasonableness and necessity of regulation apparent.
The universal practice is to register ownership of automobiles and to license their drivers. Any appropriate means
adopted by the states to insure competence and care on
the part of its licensees and to protect others using the
highway is consonant with due process. Some States require insurance, or its equivalent, as a condition of the
issue of a license. New York chose to obtain the same end
by providing for the revocation or suspension of a license
if the holder is adjudged guilty of negligent driving. Section 94-b permits the restoration of the license upon payment or satisfaction of the judgment. As the court below
has held, the effect of the statute as it stood prior to the
amendment of 1936 was to make the license privilege a
form of protection against damage to the public inflicted
through the licensee's carelessness.'
New York Laws, 1939, c. 618.
'See also Munz v. Harnett, 6 F. Supp. 158.

REITZ v. MEALEY.
33

Opinion of the Court.

Second. Prior to the amendment of 1936, the license
could not be restored until three years had expired from
its suspension, unless the judgment were paid or discharged, except by a discharge in bankruptcy, and unless,
also, the licensee furnished proof of his ability to respond
in damages for any future accident.
If the statute went no further, we are clear that it would
constitute a valid exercise of the State's police power not
inconsistent with § 17 of the Bankruptcy Act. The penalty which § 94-b imposes for injury due to careless driving is not for the protection of the creditor merely, but to
enforce a public policy that irresponsible drivers shall not,
with impunity, be allowed to injure their fellows. The
scheme of the legislation would be frustrated if the reckless driver were permitted to escape its provisions by the
simple expedient of voluntary bankruptcy, and, accordingly, the legislature declared that a discharge in bankruptcy should not interfere with the operation of the
statute. Such legislation is not in derogation of the
Bankruptcy Act. Rather it is an enforcement of permissible state policy touching highway safety.
Third. The appellant insists that the section as
amended, and as it was at the time the judgment was
rendered against him, violates the due process clause and
runs afoul of the Bankruptcy Act. in virtue of the power
given the creditor to have the judgment certified to the
commissioner of motor vehicles, that is, the power to bring
§ 94-b into operation, and the further power to suspend
the operation of the section.
The claim of deprivation of rights without due process
of law is frivolous. The State has seen fit to give the
plaintiff an additional means of enforcing the payment of
a judgment for damages inflicted in the operation of a
motor vehicle by dealing with the registration and license
of the driver. The grant of this additional remedy is not
inconsistent with the concept of due process.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314U.S.

A more serious question arises in connection with § 17
of the Bankruptcy Act. The discharge of the debtor is a
defense available against a suit on the judgment and
against execution process issued upon it. And there is
force in the argument that § 94-b, as amended, in truth
deprives the debtor of the immunity afforded by his discharge, leaves out of view the public policy of the State or
makes that public policy subservient to the private interest
of the creditor by affording him the opportunity to initiate,
remove and revive the suspension of the license upon terms
as to payments on account of his claim.
The District Court held that it need not consider the
validity of the amendment of 1939, which requires the
county clerk to certify the judgment only upon the request
of the creditor. Under the old law it was the duty of the
county clerk to certify every such judgment which had
become final and remained unsatisfied for fifteen days. It
is true that the bill alleges the judgment in this case was
certified at the request of the plaintiff's attorney. But if
the amendment is void, because it confers a power on the
creditor inconsistent with the effect of the debtor's discharge, and is eliminated from the statute for that reason,
it still remains that under the old law the county clerk's
duty to certify was mandatory, and this judgment would
have been certified if he had performed his official duty.
The court also found it unnecessary to pass upon the
validity of the 1936 amendment. The power of the creditor to lift the suspension and restore it during the period
of three years does not appear to have been invoked in
the present case. If the creditor attempts to exercise that
power, the commissioner will have to determine whether
the amendment giving the creditor such power is valid.
The court was of the view that if the amendments are
invalid, as inconsistent with § 17 of the Bankruptcy Act,
they axe severable, and that the statute may stand as a
complete act without them, since, under the law of New

REITZ v. MEALEY.
33

Opinion of the Court.

York, a statute, in itself constitutional, is not affected by
an unconstitutional amendment ;-the amendment dropping out and the original act remaining in force. Decisions of the highest court of the State are cited to this
effect.8
These decisions hold that, where the original and amending acts were enacted by different legislatures, it cannot
be thought that the original act would not have been
retained except for the amendments, and this principle has
been applied where the amending act declares, as it does
in this instance, that the original act is "amended to read
as follows" and then contains a redraft of the entire act
with the amendment inserted. Whether an amendment
stands by itself as an independent enactment, or is incorporated in the setting of the act which it amends, by a
provision that the act "shall read as follows:" is a matter
of draftsmanship or legislative mechanics. It does not
touch the substance of constitutionality.
There is no evidence of intent that if the amendments
could not stand the legislation as a whole should fail. On
the contrary, the legislative history discloses a persistent
purpose that such a scheme for the control of motor drivers
should remain. Successive and frequent amendments
have dealt with details but have left intact the major
features of the legislation. In any case, we should accord great weight to the District Court's view of New York
law. But an examination of the authorities convinces
that in this case any contrary view is untenable. Since
the judgment in this case would or should have been
'E. g., People v. Mensching, 187 N. Y. 8, 23, 79 N. E. 884; Markland
v. Scully, 203 N. Y. 158, 96 N. E. 427; People v. Klinck Packing Co.,
214 N. Y. 121, 108 N. E. 278; People v. Knapp, 230 N. Y. 48, 63, 129
N. E. 202.
'See Laws 1930, c. 398; Laws 1931, c. 669; Laws 1934, c. 438; Laws
1936, c. 293; Laws 1936, c. 771; Laws 1937, c. 114; Laws 1937, c. 463;
Laws 1939, c. 618.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

314 U.S.

certified prior to the amendment of 1939, and since the
creditor has not sought to invoke the amendment of 1936
which gives him a control over the restoration of appellant's license and its continued force during the three year
suspension period, we think the court was right in abstaining from deciding whether the amendments are annulled
by § 17 of the Bankruptcy Act.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting:
Under the statute in question, it becomes the duty of the
commissioner of motor vehicles to suspend the operator's
license of one against whom the unsatisfied judgment has
been rendered (Matter of Jones v. Harnett,247 App. Div.
7, 286 N. Y. S. 220; aff'd 271 N. Y. 626, 3 N. E. 2d 455),
"upon receiving a certified copy" of such final judgment
from the court. McKinney's Cons. L. Bk. 62-A, § 94-b.
The statute further provides that "It shall be the duty of
the clerk of the court, or of the court, where it has no clerk,
in which any such judgment is rendered, to forward immediately, upon written demand of the judgment creditor or
his attorney . . . to such commissioner a certified copy
of such judgment or a transcript thereof." [Italics supplied.] Id.
In this case the judgment creditor invoked the power
which the New York legislature placed in his hands. At
the request of his attorney, the clerk of the court forwarded a transcript of the judgment to the commissioner,
who thereupon issued the order of suspension.
The power thus granted the judgment creditor contravenes § 17 of the Bankruptcy Act. Judgments on claims
of the kind involved here 1 are provable (Lewis v. Roberts,
'The appearance of judgments, arising out of automobile accidents,
among individual bankrupts' schedules of liabilities has been.common.
Causes of Business Failures and Bankruptcies of Individuals in New

Jersey in 1929-30, U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Don. Comm. Series No.

REITZ v. MEALEY.
33

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

267 U. S. 467) and do not fall within any of the categories
of debts excepted from discharge by § 17. Since they are
dischargeable, a state cannot supply a device for their
collection which survives a discharge in bankruptcy. The
bankruptcy power is "unrestricted and paramount"; the
states "may not pass or enforce laws to interfere with or
complement the Bankruptcy Act or to provide additional
or auxiliary regulations." International Shoe Co. v.
Pinkus, 278 U. S. 261, 265. The power which New York
has placed in the hands of this judgment creditor is such
an interference, though the discharge in bankruptcy be
deemed to destroy only the remedy (Zavelo v. Reeves, 227
U. S. 625) not the debt.
Under the New York scheme a creditor whose claim has
been discharged still holds a club over his debtor's head.
The state has given him a remedy which survives bankruptcy. If the bankrupt refuses to pay his discharged
debt, the creditor will see to it that his driver's license is
suspended. If, however, the bankrupt will pay up, the
creditor will refrain.
The practical pressures of this collection device are apparent. Where retention of the operator's license is
essential to livelihood, as here alleged, the bankrupt is at
the creditor's mercy. Bankruptcy is not then the sanctuary for hapless debtors which Congress intended. The
bankrupt, instead of receiving by virtue of his discharge
''a new opportunity in life and a clear field for future effort,
unhampered by the pressure and discouragement of preexisting debt" (Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U. S. 234, 244)
finds himself still entangled with a former creditor.
In practical effect the bankrupt may be in as bad, or
even worse, a position than if the state had made it possible
for a creditor to attach his future wages. Such a device
54, pp. 25-26 (1931); Causes of Commercial Bankruptcies, id., No. 69,
pp. 14-16 (1932); Causes of Bankruptcies Among Consumers, id.,
No. 82, pp. 14-15 (1933).

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

314 U. S,

would clearly contravene the Bankruptcy Act. Local
Loan Co. v. Hunt, supra. The present one likewise runs
afoul of the Act.
But it is said that if this provision of the statute falls
out, the old one falls in; and under the old one it was the
duty of the clerk to certify the unsatisfied judgment to
the commissioner. The difficulty with that view is that
this is not that case. This bankrupt's license was suspended as a result of legal compulsion by the creditor.
Whether it would have been suspended had the commissioner been advised that the amendment giving the
creditor that power contravened the Bankruptcy Act is
wholly conjectural. The question of whether a provision
of a state statute survives an invalid amendment is a
question of state law. See Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo &
Co., 223 U. S. 298. We do not know what the ruling of
the New York courts would be under this statute. Nor
do we know whether as a matter of administrative policy
the clerk and the commissioner would have proceeded on
the basis of the old statute or would have awaited legislative clarification. But, since we do know that the bankrupt was deprived of his license by reason of a statute
which conflicts with the Bankruptcy Act, we should strike
down the statutory provision which in fact was invoked.
The constitutional objection to this statute, however,
persists even though we assume that the bankrupt's license
would have been suspended without the creditor's initiative. The Act also provides that "if the judgment creditor
consents in writing that the judgment debtor be allowed
license and registration,the same may be allowed for six
months from the date of such consent by the commissioner
and thereafter. . . ." (Italics supplied.) : I do-not think
we can pass over that provision on the theory that the
power of the creditor to lift the suspension does not appear
to have been invoked in this case and that if the creditor

REITZ v. MEALEY.
DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

33

attempts to exercise such power the commissioner will
have to pass on the constitutional issue. Meanwhile, the
provision in question will give to the creditor enormous
leverage. His bargaining position will be greatly fortified.
The bankrupt is at his mercy where the means of livelihood
are at stake. If the bankrupt agrees ' to a settlement,
makes arrangements for instalment payments, or the like,
the creditor will see to it that the license is restored. If
the bankrupt rests on his rights, the creditor will show no
mercy. In the interim, there is no way by which the bankrupt can rid himself of that pressure, unless he makes
peace with the creditor; he cannot force the constitutional
issue in any way other than the present suit. If the
creditor agrees to lift the suspension, the bankrupt would
be the last to object. In any event, the provision by that
time would have spent much of its force. In short, this
power which New York has given the creditor is a powerful
collection device which should not be allowed to survive
bankruptcy.
I agree that we should not meet a constitutional issue
unless it is unavoidable. But that issue cannot be escaped
here, unless we are to overlook the realities of collection
methods.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE BYRNES

JusTICE JACKSON

join in this dissent.

and MR.

