OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

314 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. KANSAS FLOUR MILLS
CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 45.

Argued November 21, 1941.-Decided December 8, 1941.

Contracts for the purchase of flour by the Government included as
part of the price any federal tax theretofore imposed by Congress
applicable to the material purchased, and provided that if any
processing or other tax were imposed or "changed by Congress"
after the date set for opening of bids and were paid to the
Government by the contractor on the supplies contracted for, then
the price would be "increased or decreased" accordingly. Held, that
the subsequent decision in United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1,
adjudging the processing tax void, and the recognition of that holding through provisions of the Revenue Act of 1936, amounted to a
"change" of the vendor's tax liability made "by Congress," within the
meaning of the contract, and that amounts paid by the Government as part of the contract price to offset processing taxes presumptively payable by the vendor but which because of that decision
the vendor escaped, were recoverable by the United States. P. 217.
92 Ct. Cls. 390, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

313 U. S. 554, to review a decision of the

Court of Claims awarding damages to the flour mills
company on a contract for the sale of flour and bran, and
denying the right of the United States to offset payments
made by it on earlier contracts to cover processing taxes
which were subsequently held to be unconstitutional so
that the vendor was not obliged to pay them.
Mr. Warner W. Gardner,with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and Hubert L. Will were on the brief,
for the United States.
Messrs. Edgar Shook and Phil D. Morelock, with
whom Mr. Joseph B. Brennan was on the brief, for
respondent.

U. S. v. KANSAS FLOUR CORP.
Opinion of the Court.

212

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Between May, 1935, and January 6, 1936, the respondent entered into eight contracts for the sale of flour to the
United States. Deliveries were duly made and the contract price was paid.
Each of the eight contracts provided:
"Prices set forth herein include any Federal tax heretofore imposed by the Congress which is applicable to the
material purchased under this contract. If any sales tax,
processing tax, adjustment charge or other taxes or charges
are imposed or changed by the Congress after the date set
for the opening of the bid upon which this contract is
based and made applicable directly upon the production,
manufacture, or sale of the supplies covered by this contract, and are paid to the Government by the contractor
on the articles or supplies herein contracted for, then the
prices named in this contract will be increased or decreased
accordingly, and any amount due the contractor as a result
of such change will be charged to the Government and
entered on vouchers (or invoices) as separate items."
Under the terms of the Agricultural Adjustment Act,1
processing taxes were due, in respect of the flour sold,
aggregating $28,419.20.
In 1936, the respondent entered into four contracts for
the sale of flour and bran to the United States for a total
price of $23,288.11. The commodities were delivered and
vouchers for the purchase price tendered to the General
Accounting Office. Payment was withheld by the Comptroller General, who notified the respondent that the Government had overpaid it in the sum of $28,419.20.
The respondent had obtained an injunction against the
collection of any processing taxes from it and, as a result
U. S. C. Supp. V, Tit. 7, § 609.

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

of the decision in.UnitedStates v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, paid
no processing taxes on the wheat used in the manufacture
of flour covered by the 1935 contracts.
The respondent sued in the Court of Claims to recover
the purchase price under the four 1936 contracts, and contested the offsets claimed by the Government arising out
of the eight 1935 contracts. Judgment was rendered in
favor of the respondent for $23,288.11. 92 Ct. Cls. 390.
We granted certiorari because of the importance of the
question 2 and of the number of pending cases involving
the same question. We are of opinion that the respondent was not entitled to recover.
The contracts are to be construed in the light of the
relations between the parties at the time they were executed. The Agricultural Adjustment Act did not exempt
a vendor to the United States from the processing tax;
and a Treasury Regulation required that he pay the tax.'
The quoted clause shows that this tax was specifically
in the minds of the parties, for it was stipulated that it
was included in the price bid. The Government stood in
a dual relation to the respondent. It became, at the same
time, a purchaser at the named price and also a claimant
of the processing tax upon the material purchased. The
stipulation was evidently made in view of the facts that
the purchasing officer could not buy the goods tax-free and
that the Government desired that the price to it should
be ex-tax. To accomplish this the sale price was pro
tanto offset by the amount of the tax. Plainly, if the
United States had not been thought entitled to collect the
tax, the bid price would not have been acceptable.
Plainly, also, if the respondent had not been thought
United States v. Hagan & Cushing Co., 115 F. 2d 849; IsmertHincke Milling Co. v. United States, 90 Ct. Cls. 27; United States v.
American Packing & Provision Co., 122 F. 2d 445.
'Regulations 81, Art. 9, under the Agricultural Adjustment Act.

U. S. v. KANSAS FLOUR CORP.
212

M25

Opinion of the Court.

liable for the tax, the bid price would have been less. As
disclosed by the contracts, the understanding was that the
price would have been less by the amount of the tax. The
respondent disputes this, contending that we cannot say
how much of the tax it was willing to absorb in order to
obtain the contracts; that it may have been making the
sales at an actual loss. But this is not the theory of the
contracts. They provide that if, in future, any existing
tax described therein is changed by Congress, the price
named in each contract "will be increased or decreased
accordingly." This does not mean, as contended by respondent, that the amount of increase or decrease is an
unknown quantity to be made definite and certain by
proof. It means that the amount of any increase in tax
shall be added to, and the amount of any decrease sribtracted from, the contract price. This view is strengthened by the provision for separate billing of the increase,
if any.
The respondent, however, argues that, under any construction, the Government is not entitled to maintain its
set-off, first, because the contracts contain no undertaking
by respondent that it will pay the tax, and, secondly, that,
even if they do, the stipulation for reduction of price
applies only to changes by Congress and excludes relief
from the tax by an adjudication that the exaction is
unconstitutional.
In support of the first proposition, the respondent relies
on numerous decisions holding tax clauses in private contracts not to require adjustment of the contract price as
a result of the decision in the Butler case, supra.' These
'Compare United States v. Glenn L. Martin Co., 308 U. S. 62.
5

Moundridge Milling Co. v. Cream of Wheat Corp., 105 F. 2d 366;
ConsolidatedFlour Mills v. Ph. Orth Co., 114 F. 2d 898; United States
v. American Packing & Provision Co., 122 F. 2d 445; City Baking
Co. v. CascadeMilling & Elevator Co., 24 F. Supp. 950; G. S. Johnson

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

go on the absence of an express provision respecting the
constitutional validity and upon the omission of the parties to bill the tax separately from the purchase price. We
think they are inapplicable in the present case since the
tax clause here had a purpose different from those in
private contracts. As we have said, the purpose here
was to deprive either party of the advantage or disadvantage resulting from the incidence of the tax; and, therefore, it was sought to eliminate the effect of the exaction
on the contract price.
In the case of private contracts, the vendees purchase
for resale and the tax burden assumed is passed on to
their customers. The fact that the processor-the vendor-is protected? from the payment of the tax by injunction does not reduce the price to the vendee or to
purchasers from him. The courts will not permit the unjust enrichment involved in recovery by the vendee of the
amount of tax which he has passed on to his customers.'
In the contracts in question, the Government did not
buy for resale. Unless it received the tax it suffered a
definite disadvantage.! Its purpose, as shown by the
contracts, was to balance the tax element in the price
Co. v. N. Sauer Milling Co., 148 Kan. 861 (1938), 84 P. 2d 934; Sparks
Milling Co. v. Powell, 283 Ky. 669 (1940), 143 S. W. 2d 75; Crete
Mills v. Smith Baking Co., 136 Neb. 448 (1939), 286 N. W. 333.
*See the cases cited Note 5. The respondent urges that the unjust
enrichment tax imposed, by Title III of the Revenue Act of 1936 (49

Stat. 1734) destroys the equity of the Government's case, but if respondent is required to reduce its price by the amount of its unpaid
processing tax it will not be subject to the unjust enrichment tax on
these transactions. See §§ 501 (b) (2) and 501 (j) (4).
'In United States v. American Packing & Provision Co., 122 F. 2d
445, the Government was held entitled to maintain a set-off asserted
under conditions like those here involved on the ground that the
vendor had received money from the Government which in equity
and good conscience it should repay.

U. S. v. RANSAS FLOUR CORP.
212

Opinion of the Court.

paid with the tax, collected.' The Government, which
could not pass on the tax on resale, was thus protected,
not against a fall in the market price but against a loss
in its tax revenues. In cases of private sales, the processor's injunction against collection of the tax, as held
by the cases cited, worked no harm to his vendee. A
similar injunction, in the case of Government contracts,
would leave the price to the Government at the higher
level reflecting the tax and deprive the Government of
the reciprocal benefit flowing from collection of the tax.
In its second position, the respondent attempts to meet
what has been said as to the inequity of its retaining the
full price, when it escapes paying the tax, with the argument that the result is inevitable under the contracts. It
refers to the fact that it had already obtained an injunction against the collection of the processing tax when some
of the 1935 contracts were made, and asserts that, if the
Government desired to provide against a decision that
the taxing act was unconstitutional, this could readily
have been done by the addition of a single phrase.
As we have said, there is respectable authority for the
position that tax clauses in private contracts do not reach
a judicial decision of invalidity of the statute. We think,
however, these decisions have no application in the present
instance. Here, legislation recognizing the decision in
United States v. Butler, supra, and imposing taxes on the
enrichment of those who passed on the amount of the tax
without having to pay it, may properly be said to have
been a change of the tax by Congress within the terms of
the contracts.
The decision in the Butler case was rendered January
6, 1936. It is true that after that decision a taxpayer's
right to an injunction against the collection of the tax
8

Compare United States v. Cowden Mfg. Co., 312 U. S. 34, 36-37.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

was clear
But, by the Revenue Act of 1936,0 which became a law June 22, 1936, Congress not only recognized
the effect of that decision as doing away with the tax in
question but legislated with respect to the consequent
rights and remedies of those who had paid the tax and the
liability of those who had passed on its burden and escaped
payment.
By Title III a tax is laid on the unjust enrichment consequent upon the passing on to customers the burden of
unpaid processing taxes. In § 501 (b) (i) (2) and (j) (2),
Congress defines the date of termination of the tax as "in
the case of a Federal excise tax held invalid by a decision
of the Supreme Court, the date of such decision." In
Title IV there is a provision relative to floor stock taxes
which recognizes the invalidity of the Agricultural Adjustment Act by reenacting the refund provisions of that
Act in respect of transactions prior to January 6, 1936,
the date of the Butler decision. § 601 (a). The title
defines a taxable commodity as one on which a processing
tax was provided for as of January 5, 1936, the day before
the Butler decision. § 602 (c) (1).
Title VII makes provision for the refund of processing
taxes collected under the Agricultural Adjustment Act and
is a recognition by Congress that the taxes were invalid.
Thus, a change in respondent's tax liability has been
recognized and confirmed by Congress. Even though this
legislative action was a confirmation of or acquiescence in
the Butler decision, and although its effect may have been
merely cumulative, it amounted to a change made by Congress in respondent's liability for the tax, within the meaning of the contracts.
The judgment is
Reversed.
'Rickert Rice Mill, Inc. v. Fontenot, 297 U. S. 110.
1049 Stat. 1648.

