LABOR BOARD v. VIRGINIA POWER CO. 469
463

Statement of the Case.

ably to circumscribe its powers to establish a convenient
and flexible fiscal system."
Nor do we have here any lack of that territorial uniformity which is required by Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution.
LaBelle Iron Works v. United States, supra,p. 392.

Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. VIRGINIA ELECTRIC & POWER CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 25. Argued November 13, 1941.-Decided December 22, 1941
1. The National Labor Relations Act does not forbid or penalize expression by an employer to his employees of his views on labor
policies. P. 476.
2. Conduct, though evidenced in part by speech, may amount in
connection with other circumstances to coercion within the meaning of the Act. In determining whether an employer actually
interfered with, restrained, and coerced its employees, the Board
may look at what it said as well as what it did. P. 477.
3. Where the Board specifically found that certain spoken and posted
utterances by the employer were unfair labor practices, the adequacy of which finding was doubtful if the utterances were separated from their background, and it was not certain from the
Board's decision that its conclusion was based on the whole course
of conduct during the period in question, of which the utterances
were a part, held, that the case must be returned to the Board for
a redetermination. P. 479.
115 F. 2d 414, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 677, to review a judgment setting
aside an order of the National Labor Relations Board, 20

N. L. R. B. 911, requiring the above-named power com*

Together with No. 26, National Labor Relations Board v. Inde-

pendent Organizationof Employees of the Virginia Electric & Power
Co., also on writ of certiorari, 312 U. S. 677, to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

pany, among other things, to withdraw recognition of, and
disestablish, a union with which it had contracted. The
company and the independent union filed separate petitions in the court below to review and set aside the order.
The Board answered and prayed enforcement of the
order.
Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Richard S. Salant, Laurence A.
Knapp, MorrisP. Glushien, and Owsley Vose were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. T. Justin Moore and George D. Gibson for respondent in No. 25. Mr. William Earle White, with
whom Mr. PaulE. Hadlick was on the brief, for respondent
in No. 26.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinioh of the

Court.
Upon the usual proceedings 1 had pursuant to § 10 of the
National Labor Relations Act,2 the Board made substantially the following findings of fact:
For years prior to the events in this case the Virginia
Electric and Power Company (hereinafter called the Coin'These proceedings were instituted on charges and amended charges
filed in 1937 and 1938 by the Transport Workers Union of America,
affiliated with the Congress of Industrial Organizations, by the Amalgamated Association of Street, Electrical Railway, and Motor Coach
Employees of America, and by the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, the latter two being affiliated with the American
Federation of Labor. The complaint, as amended, charged that the
employer, respondent in No. 25, had engaged in unfair labor practices
within the meaning of § 8 (1), (2), and (3) of the Act; 29 U. S. C.
§ 158 (1), (2), and (3). The Independent Organization of Employees
of the Virginia Electric and Power Company, respondent in No. 26, was
allowed to intervene with respect to the 8 (2) charge, was represented
by counsel and participated throughout the proceedings.
'49 Stat. 449; 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.

LABOR BOARD v. VIRGINIA POWER CO. 471
469

Opinion of the Court.

pany) was hostile to labor organizations.

From 1922,

when a strike was unsuccessful by a nationally affiliated
union," until the formation of the Independent Organization of Employees (hereinafter called the Independent)
in 1937, there was no labor organization among its employees. Shortly after the enactment of the National
Industrial Recovery Act in 1933, Holtzclaw, the president
of the Company, spoke to the employees and stated that
any organization among them was "entirely unnecessary."
Until his death, in May 1937, the Company utilized the
services of one Walters, an employee of the Railway Audit
and Inspection Company, who, prior to the effective date
of the Act, admittedly furnished a report on the labor
activity of the employees to the Company. In 1936,
Bishop, Superintendent of Transportation in Norfolk,
interrogated employees concerning union activities. On
April 26, 1937, shortly after the Act was upheld,' and an
A. F. of L. organizer had appeared, the Company posted
a bulletin0 throughout its operations, appealing to the
'Amalgamated Association of Street, Electrical Railway, and Motor
Coach Employees of America.
'National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
301 U. S. 1, and companion cases.
'The bulletin read as follows:
"April 26, 1937.
To the Employees of the Company:
As a result of recent national labor organization activities and the
interpretation of the Wagner Labor Act by the Supreme Court,
employees of companies such as ours may be approached in the near
future by representatives of one or more such labor organizations to
solicit their membership. Such campaigns are now being pressed in
various industries and in different parts of the country and strikes
and unrest have developed in many localities. For the last fifteen
years this Company and its employees have enjoyed a happy relationship of mutual confidence and understanding with each other, and
during this period there has not been any labor organization among
our employees in any department, so far as the management is aware.
Under these circumstances, we feel that our employees are entitled to

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

employees to bargain with the Company directly, without
the intervention of an "outside" union, and thereby coerced its employees. In response to this bulletin several
requests for increased wages and better working conditions
were received.6 The Company decided to withhold action
on those requests, and directed its employees to select representatives to attend meetings at which Company officials would speak on the Wagner Act. These representaknow certain facts and have a statement as to the Company's attitude
with reference to this matter.
The Company recognizes the right of every employee to join any
union that he may wish to join, and such membership will not affect
his position with the company, On the other hand, we feel that it
should be made equally clear to each employee that it is not at all
necessary for him to join any labor organization, despite anything he
may be told to the contrary. Certainly, there is no law which requires or is irtcaded to compel you to pay dues to, or to join any
organization.
This Company has always dealt with its employees in full recognition of the right of every individual employee, or group of employees,
to deal directly with the Company with respect to matters affecting
their interests. If any of you, individually or as a group, at any time,
have any matter which you wish to discuss with us, any officer or department head will be glad, as they always have been, to meet with
you and discuss them frankly and fully. It is our earnest desire to
straighten out in a friendly manner, as we have done in the past,
whatever questions you may have in mind. It is reasonable to believe
that our interests are mutual and can best be promoted through confidence and cooperation.

(signed)

J. G.

HOLTZCLAW,

President."
'Included in those requests was a petition from a majority of the
Norfolk transportation employees which was the result of two meetings on Company property during working hours on May 11, 1937, in
response to unsigned notices placed in the dispatcher's office by A. R.
Ruett, a car operator. Both Ruett, and R. E. Elliott, who assumed
the leadership in those meetings, testified that Superintendent Bishop
had urged them to form an inside organization after warning them
against the C. I. 0. Bishop denied this, and the Board made no
finding.

LABOR BOARD v. VIRGINIA POWER CO. 473
469

Opinion of the Court.

tives met in Norfolk and Richmond on May 24, and were
addressed by high Company officials, who read identical
speeches' stressing the desirability of forming a bargain"A substantial number of its employees representing various departments and various occupations have approached the Company
with the request that the Company consider with them the matter of
their working conditions and wages. In other words, they have requested collective bargaining. The Company's position with respect
to this was recently stated in a posted bulletin.
"In a company such as ours, if an individual operator, for example,
should ask for himself better working conditions or wages, this Company could not comply with his request without also making the same
concessions to other similar operators. In such a case the operator
who appealed individually would, as a practical matter, be bargaining
collectively for all of his group, which is not the logical procedure.
"This Company is willing to consider the requests mentioned above
but feels that, in fairness to all of its employees and to itself, it should
at the same time consider other groups who have not yet come to it.
If the approaching negotiations are to be intelligent and fair to all
properly concerned, they should be conducted in an orderly way, and
all interested groups should be represented in these discussions by
representatives of their own choosing, as provided in the Wagner National Labor Relations Act, which provides as follows:
"'S c. 7. Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form,
join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through rep-:
resentatives of their own choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or
protection.'
"The Wagner Act applies only to employees whose work is in or
directly affects interstate commerce and to companies engaged in interstate commerce. Counsel for this Company advise us that in their
opinion the provisions of the Act do not apply to local transportation
employees, to gas employees in Norfolk, or to certain strictly local
employees of the light and power department. In spite of this, the
Company wants to make it perfectly clear that its policy is one of
willingness to bargain with its employees in any manner satisfactory to
the majority of its employees and that no employee will be discriminated against because of any labor affiliations he desires to make:
"The petitions and representations already received indicate a desire on the part of these employees at least to do their own bargaining,

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

ing agency. At the Richmond meeting it was announced
that any wage increase granted would be retroactive to
June 1. By the substance of the speeches and the mechanics of the meetings, the Company gave impetus to,
and assured the creation of, an "inside" organization, and
coerced its employees in the exercise of their rights guaranteed by § 7 of the Act. Meetings, arranged with the
coSperation of Company supervisors, on Company property, and, in some instances, on Company time, followed, at which the May 24 speeches were reported to the
men who voted to form an "inside" organization and selected committees for that purpose. These committees
met on Company property until June 15, when the constitution of the Independent was adopted.
While the Independent was in the process of organization, Edwards, a supervisor, kept meetings of a rival
C. I. 0. union under surveillance and warned employees
that they would be discharged for "messing with the
C. I. 0." On June 1, Mann, a member of the C. I. 0. who
had openly protested against an "inside" union at one
of the May 11 meetings (see note 6 ante) attended by
Superintendent Bishop's son, Warren, was discharged for
union activities.
and we are taking this means of letting you know our willingness to
proceed with such bargaining in an orderly manner. In order to
progress, it would seem that the first step necessary to be takel by
you is the formation of a bargaining agency and the selection of
authorized representatives to conduct this bargaining in such an
orderly manner.
"The Wagner Labor Act prohibits a company from 'dominating or
interfering with the formation or administration of any labor organization or contributing financial or other support to it.'
"In view of your request to bargain directly with the Company and,
in view of your right to self-organization as provided in the law, it
will facilitate negotiations if you will proceed to set up your organization, select your own officers and advisers, adopt -your own by-laws
and rules, and select your representatives to meet with the Company

officials whenever you desire."

LABOR BOARD v. VIRGINIA POWER CO. 475
489

Opinion of the Court.

On June 17, application cards for the Independent were
distributed throughout the entire system of the Company,
and many were signed on Company property and time.
Within three weeks after the adoption of the constitution
of the Independent, a majority of the employees filled
out application cards. , By July 13, the organization was
complete, and permanent committeemen had been elected.
A majority of those committeemen had been present at
the May 24 meetings. On July 19, the Independent notified the Company that it represented a majority of the
employees, and submitted a proposed contract. Negotiations were begun on July 30, and agreement was reached
by midnight of the following day. The contract was
formally executed on August 5, and provided, inter alia,
for a closed shop, a check-off, and a wage increase. On
August 20, the Company paid $3,784.50 to the Independent, although it had not yet deducteda.that entire amount
from the employees' wages. On November 4, the date
upon which the closed shop provision became effective,
the Company discharged two employees, Staunton and
Elli6tt, because they refused to join the Independent. In
March, 1938, it discharged another employee, Harrell, for
his membership and activity in an outside union.
Upon the basis of these findings and the entire record
in the case, the Board concluded that the Company had
committed unfair labor practices within the meaning of
§ 8 (1), (2) and (3) of the Act. Its order directed. the
Company to cease and desist from its unfair labor practices and from giving effect to its contract with the Independent, to withdraw recognition from and disestablish
that organization, to reinstate with back pay the four
wrongfully discharged employees, to reimburse each of
its employees who was a member of the Independent in
the amount of -the dues and assessments checked off his
wages by the Company on behalf of the Independent, and
to post appropriate notices.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The Company and the Independent filed separate petitions in the court below to review and set aside the Board's
order. The Board answered and requested enforcement
of its order against the Company. The court below denied
enforcement to any part of the Board's order, completely
setting it aside.' We granted the petition for writs of
certiorari because the case was thought to present important questions in the administration of the Act. 312
U. S. 677.
The Company is engaged in the business of generating
and distributing electrical energy in eastern Virginia and
north-eastern North Carolina. It also furnishes illuminating gas to customers in the vicinity of Norfolk, Virginia, and operates transportation services in Richmond,
Norfolk, Portsmouth and Petersburg. It does not here
renew the contention, correctly decided against it by the
court below,' that the jurisdiction of the Board does not
extend to its employees in the gas and transportation
departments.
Dominationof the Independent
The command of § 10 (e) of the Act that "the findings
of the Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence,
shall be conclusive," precludes an independent consideration of the facts. Bearing this in mind, we must ever
guard against allowing our views to be substituted for
those of the agency which Congress has created to administer the Act. But here the Board's conclusion that
the Independent was a company-dominated union seems
based heavily upon findings which are not free from ambiguity and doubt. We believe that the Board, and not this
Court, should undertake the task of clarification.
The Board specifically found that the bulletin of April
26 and the speeches of May 24 "interfered with, re' Virginia Electric & Power Co. v. National Labor Relations Board,
115 F. 2d 414.

Ibid., 415-416.

LABOR BOARD v. VIRGINIA POWER CO. 477
469

Opinion of the Court.

strained and coerced" the Company's employees in the
exercise of their rights guaranteed by § 7 of the Act.
The Company strongly urges that such a finding is repugnant to the First Amendment. Neither the Act nor the
Board's order here enjoins the employer from expressing
its view on labor policies or problems, nor is a penalty
imposed upon it because of any utterances which it has
made. The sanctions of the Act are imposed not in
punishment of the employer but for the protection of
the employees. The employer in this case is as free now
as ever to take any side it may choose on this controversial issue. But, certainly, conduct, though evidenced
in part by speech, may amount, in connection with other
circumstances, to coercion within the meaning of the
Act. If the total activities of an employer restrain or
coerce his employees in their free choice, then those employees are entitled to the protection of the Act. And
in determining whether a course of conduct amounts to
restraint or coercion, pressure exerted vocally by the
employer may no more be disregarded than pressure
exerted in other ways. For "Slight suggestions as to the
employer's choice between unions may have telling effect
among men who know the consequences of incurring that
employer's strong displeasure." International Association of Machinists v. National Labor Relations Board,
311 U. S. 72, 78.
If the Board's order here may fairly be said to be based
on the totality of the Company's activities during the
period in question, we may not consider the findings of
the Board asto the coercive effect of the bulletin and the
speeches in isolation from the findings as respects the
other conduct of the Company. If the Board's ultimate
conclusion is based upon a complex of activities, such
as the anti-union background of the Company, the activities of Bishop, Edwards' warning to the employees
that they would .be discharged for "messing with the

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

C. I. 0.," the discharge of Mann, the quick formation of
'the Independent, and the part which the management
may have played in that formation, that conclusion
would not be vitiated by the fact that the Board considered what the Company said in conjunction with what it
did. The mere fact that language merges into a course
of conduct does not put that whole course without the
range of otherwise applicable administrative power. In
determining whether the Company actually interfered
with, restrained, and coerced its employees, the Board
has a right to look at what the Company has said, as
well as what it has done.
But, from the Board's decision, we are far from clear
that the Board here considered the whole complex of
activities, of which the bulletin and the speeches are but
parts, in reaching its ultimate conclusion with regard
to the Independent. The Board regarded the bulletin,
on its face, as showing a marked bias against national
unions by implying that strikes and unrest are caused
by the organizational campaigns of such bodies, by stressing the "happy relationship of mutual confidence and
understanding" prevailing in the absence of organization
since the defeat of the Amalgamated in 1922, and by
emphasizing the negative "right" of the employees to
refrain from exercising their rights guaranteed under the
Act, after paying "lip service" to those rights. Summing
up its conclusions, the Board said: "We interpret the
bulletin as an appeal to the employees to bargain with the
respondent directly, without the intervention of any 'outside' union. We find that by posting the bulletin the respondent interfered with, restrained, and coerced its employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed in Section
7 of the Act."
The Board was of the view that the speeches delivered
in the meetings of May 24 provided the impetus for the
formation of a system-wide organization, that they re-

LABOR BOARD v. VIRGINIA POWER 00. 479
469

Opinion of the Court.

emphasized the Company's distaste for "outside" organizations by referring to the bulletin, and that, after quoting
the provision of the Act forbidding employer domination
of labor organizations, they suggested that the employees
select their "own" officers, and adopt their 'own" by-laws
and rules. The Board's finding was: "We find that at
the May 24 meetings the respondent urged its employees
to organize and to do so independently of 'outside' assistance, and that it thereby interfered with, restrained, and
coerced its employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed in Section 7 of the Act."
It is clear that the Board specifically found that those
utterances were unfair labor practices, and it does not appear that the Board raised them to the stature of coercion
by reliance on the surrounding circumstances. If the utterances are thus to be separated from their background,
we find it difficult to sustain a finding of coercion with respect to them alone. The bulletin and the speeches set
forth the right of the employees to do as they please without fear of retaliation by the Company. Perhaps the purport of these utterances may be altered by imponderable
subtleties at work, which it is not our functioi to appraise.
Whether there are sufficient findings and evidence of interference, restraint, coercion, and domination, without reference to the bulletin and the speeches, or whether the whole
course of conduct, evidenced in part by the utterances,
was aimed at achieving objeotives forbidden by the Act,
are questions for the Board to decide upon the evidence.
Here, we are not sufficientlk, certain from the findings
that the Board based its conclusion with regard to the
Independent upon the whole course of conduct revealed
by this record. Rather, it appears that the Board rested
heavily upon findings with regard to the bulletin and the
speeches, the adequacy of which we regard as doubtful.
We therefore remand the cause to the Circuit Court of,
Appeals with directions to remand it to the Board for a

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
314 U. S.

Syllabus.

redetermination of the issues in the light of this opinion.
We do not mean to intimate any views of our own as to
whether the Independent was dominated, or suggest to
the Board what its conclusion should be when it reconsiders the case. Since the Board rested the remainder of
its order in large part on its findings with respect to the
domination of the Independent, we do not at this time
reach the other parts of the Board's order, including the
command that the ,checked-off dues and assessments
should be refunded.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF TEXAS.

No. 44.. Argued November 19, 21, 1941.-Decided December 22, 1941.
1. Under R. S. § 3466, in the distribution of assets of an insolvent
debtor through a general receivership, an unsecured tax claim of
the United States takes priority over the like claim of a State.
P. 483.
2. The priority of unsecured claims of the United States under R. S.
§ 3466 attaches upon the taking over of the insolvent debtor's property by a general receivership and can not be divested by subsequent proceedings for the perfection of liens claimed by a State.
P. 486.
3. Article 7065a-7 of the Texas Civil Statutes declares that all
gasoline taxes due by any distributor to the State "shall be a preferred lien, first and prior to any and all other existing liens, upon
all the property of any distributor, devoted to or used in his business
as a distributor . . ." Held, that the lien thus created is not a
specific and perfect lien entitled to priority, despite R. S. § 3466, over
a claim of the United States, but is an inchoate and general lien
requiring further procedure to define and enforce it. P. 484.
138 S. W. 2d 924, reversed.

