OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

314 U. S.

law, Iowa and its receiver had to the securities and the
collections thereon, and whether the decree entered by the
District Court was kept within the appropriate limits.
Since the Circuit Court of Appeals did not decide those
questions, we reverse its judgment and remand the cause
to it for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS did not participate in the decision
of this case.

IRVING TRUST CO.

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS,

ET AL. V.

DAY, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SURROGATE'S COURT, KINGS COUNTY,
NEW YORK.

No. 51.

Argued December 11, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.

1. Where a state statute is challenged as violative of the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution, the existence of the contract and
the nature and extent of its obligations are federal questions, and the
rulings of the state court thereon are not conclusive here. P. 561.
2. A State is not forbidden by the Federal Constitution to limit, condition, or even abolish the power of testamentary disposition over
property within its jurisdiction. P. 562.
3. Section 18 of the New York Decedent Estate Law, which, in the
case of wills thereafter executed, gives to a surviving spouse a right
of election to take as in intestacy, held not an unconstitutional impairment of the obligation of a previously executed waiver by the
surviving spouse of any right in the estate of the decedent, and not
inconsistent with due process of law, where, subsequently to the enactment of the Section, the decedent executed a codicil to his will and
thereby made the Section operative. P. 562.
284 N. Y. 527,32 N. E. 2d 539, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree, entered on remittitur, sustaining

the right of appellee's decedent to elect under § 18 of the
New York Decedent Estate Law to take against the provi-

IRVING TRUST CO. v. DAY.
Opinion of the Court.

556

sions of a will. See also 171 Misc. 612, 13 N. Y. S. 2d 76;
258 App. Div. 596, 17 N. Y. S. 2d 316.
Mr. Philip Zierler for the Irving Trust Co. et al.,
appellants.
By prescribing a formality of execution more exacting
than that required by pre-existing statutes, § 18 violated
vested contract rights under agreements made before its
effective date.
At the time of the agreement in this case, a contract
between a man and woman, in contemplation of marriage,
by which either one relinquished all rights in the estate
of the other, was fully recognized and enforced and was not
required to be acknowledged.
Under the instrument of February 2, 1922, which was
acted upon by McGlone at the time of the marriage on
February 4, 1922, he acquired a vested right to exclude
Mrs. McGlone from claiming any interest in his estate.
The rights created by the agreement -are within the
constitutional guaranty against impairment of the obligations of contract and taking of property without due
process of law.
The agreement constituted a deliberate and informed
abandonment of known rights. McGlone altered his
position relying thereon. Mrs., McGlone was estopped
from asserting the right to elect to take against his last
will and testament.
Mr. Ralph L. Kaskell, Jr., submitted for Edward McGlone et al., appellants.
Mr. Andrew F. Van Thun, Jr., with whom Mr. George
H. Burtis was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE JAcKsON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The federal question presented upon this appeal is
whether § 18 of the New York Decedent Estate Law

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

works an impairment of the obligation of contract, forbidden by Article I, § 10 of the Constitution, or a deprivation of property without due process, forbidden by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The instrument which appellants claim embodies a
contract which has been impaired, and under which they
claim property rights, reads as follows:
"I, Helena Day Snyder, being of sound mind and in
possession of all my faculties, on the eve of my marriage
to John J. McGlone, in London, England, on February
4th, 1922, wish to record, of my free will, that, as I already possess, in my own right, ample of this world's
goods in the way of a fortune of my own, as a compliment
to my aforesaid husband, and for other good and sufficient reasons, I hereby, voluntarily and irrevocably renounce all right, title and interest I might, legally or
otherwise, have in any estate, real or personal, of which
my said husband to be, John J. McGlone, might die
seized."
Appellee's decedent, Helena Day Snyder, who died in
the course of this litigation, executed this instrument in
London two days before her marriage to John J. McGlone, appellants' decedent. The laws of New York at
the time gave to a widow dower rights in her husband's
real estate, but, except for restrictions on charitable gifts
not involved here, left him otherwise free to make testamentary disposition of all his property to strangers.
On August 21, 1930, McGlone executed a will, one
clause of which recited Helena's waiver but "nevertheless" made a bequest of $2,000 to her as a "slight token"
of his affection and admiration. The legislation complained of, giving a testator's surviving spouse a right
of election to take against the will, had been enacted as
§ 18 of the Decedent Estate Law on March 29, 1929,
but it did not become effective until September 1, 1930, a

IRVING TRUST CO. v. DAY.
556

Opinion of the Court.

few days after McGlone executed his will.1 It permitted
waiver by a spouse or prospective spouse of the protection thus afforded, but in order to be effective the waiver
was required to be "by an instrument subscribed and
duly acknowledged." I The instrument signed by Helena
was not acknowledged, and the new legislation was
limited in operation to wills executed after its effective
date.
McGlone so acted as to bring 'his estate under this
new legislation. On July 6, 1934, he executed a codicil
1

Section 18-1 of the Decedent Estate Law, enacted by N. Y. Laws
of 1929, c. 229, § 4, provided:
"Where a testator dies after August thirty-first, nineteen hundred
and thirty, and leaves a will thereafter executed and leaves surviving
a husband or wife, a personal right of election is given to the surviving spouse to take his or her share of the estate as in intestacy,
subject to the limitations, conditions and exceptions contained in
this section."
Section 18-1 (f) provided:
"Where the aggregate of the provisions under the will for the
benefit of the surviving spouse including the principal of a trust, or
a legacy or devise, or any other form of testamentary provision, is
less than the intestate share,, the surviving spouse shall have the
limited right to elect to take the difference between such aggregate
and the amount of the intestate share, and the terms of the will shall
otherwise remain effective."
2Section 18-9 read as follows:
"The husband or wife during the lifetime of the other may waive
the right of election to take against a particular last will and testament by an instrument subscribed and duly acknowledged, or may
waive such right of election to take against any last will and testament of the other whatsoever in an agreement of settlement so
executed, made before or after marriage."
In the following year the words "of settlement" were deleted from
this provision, and the following sentence was added: "An agreement
so executed made before the taking effect of this section wherein a
spouse has waived or released all rights in the estate of the other
spouse shall be deemed to release the right of election granted in
this section.' N. Y. Laws of 1930, c. 174, § 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

to his will which, although it did not disturb the provision made for his wife in his earlier will, had the effect
of bringing the entire will, modified and republished,
within the provisions of the new law' and thus, according to the terms of § 18, of giving her a right of election
to take under the statute and against the will.
Helena sought to exercise this right, and thus precipitated the present litigation, in which the quoted instrument was pleaded as a bar to the right. The Surrogate
held that the instrument was not a contract, 171 Misc.
612, 13 N. Y. S. 2d 76; the Appellate Division held that
it was, 258 App. Div. 596, 17 N. Y. S. 2d 316; and the
New York Court of Appeals assumed, without deciding,
that, apart from the effect of § 18 of the Decedent Estate Law, it was a binding contract, validly executed,
and entitled to the protection of the Constitutional provisions here invoked. The Court of Appeals held, however, that "A wife cannot by agreement make the
husband's right created by law immune from the right
of the State to change the law which created the right
nor waive in advance a right created for her benefit if
the law does not permit such a waiver." Section 18 was
held to confer a right of election upon Helena, and to be
consistent with the requirements of the contract and due
process clauses of the Federal Constitution. Matter of
McGlone, 284 N. Y. 527, 533; 32 N. E. 2d 539, 542.
The reluctance of the New York Court of Appeals to
decide the question whether the instrument in question
did constitute a contract is quite understandable upon
consideration of the record made up in this case. It
appears from the face of the instrument that it was
penned on stationery of the Savoy Hotel, London, by
an unidentified scribe, and that the only signature was
Helena's. The instrument does not recite mutuality of
agreement. It recites no consideration, and none is
1Decedent Estate Law, § 2.

IRVING TRUST CO. p. DAY.
.556

561

Opinion of the Court.

proved. It rather negatives the receipt of consideration,
and the likelihood that marriage was such, by indicating
that the parties had already exchanged promises to
marry. Nor is there anything in text or context to help
identify the source of the rights said to be waived. No
circumstances are adduced to show that either of the
parties, about to marry in a foreign land, then had New
York as a domicile or was contracting with reference to
its laws, either present or future. The marriage record
in evidence shows that his "residence at the time of marriage" was "Savoy Hotel, London" and hers was "The
Beverleys, Thornbury Road, Isleworth." If either was
domiciled elsewhere, there is nothing to indicate it.
There is not even any showing that, at the time, either
of the parties owned or had any expectation of owning
property in New York. No apparent heed has been
given to the usual rule that the law of the place of contracting determines questions of form, capacity to contract, necessity of consideration, and some aspects of the
duty of performance. Both sides seem to have assumed,
but for reasons that are not revealed, that the law of
New York governs these questions. The niggardliness

of the record may be due in some part to the restriction
imposed on the right of a survivor to testify by § 347 of
the New York Civil Practice Act, but this does not warrant an ill-informed guess by this Court as to the existence of a contract or its meaning under properly
applicable rules of law.
When this Court is asked to invalidate a state statute
upon the ground that it impairs the obligation of a contract, the existence of the contract and the nature and
extent of its obligation become federal questions for the
purposes of determining whether they are within the
scope and meaning of the Federal Constitution, and
for such purposes finality cannot be accorded to the views
of a state court. Douglas v.Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488,
428670 -42-36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. R

502; Railroad Commission v. Eastern Texas R. Co., 264
U. S. 79, 86-87; Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582, 597;
U. S. Mortgage Co. v. Matthews, 293 U. S. 232, 236;
Higginbotham v. Baton Rouge, 306 U. S. 535, 538. In
any view we might take of the constitutional questions
urged here, we should not regard this record as an adequate basis for invalidating a state statute. But, lest
a decision on this ground be taken as an invitation to
further litigation in the New York courts and in this
Court, we shall emulate the generosity shown by the
Court of Appeals to the appellants and adopt its assumption as to the existence and nature of the contract for the
purpose of disposing of the other questions urged.
Rights of succession to the property of a deceased,
whether by will or by intestacy, are of statutory creation,
and the dead hand rules succession only by sufferance.
Nothing in the Federal Constitution forbids the legislature of a state to limit, condition, or even abolish the
power of testamentary disposition over property within
its jurisdiction. Mager v. Grima, 8 How. 490; United
States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315; United States v. Perkins,
163 U. S. 625; cf. Randall v. Kreiger, 23 Wall. 137, 148.
Expectations or hopes of succession, whether testate or
intestate, to the property of a living person, do not vest
until the death of that person. Appellants cannot successfully attack the constitutionality of the new legislation which went into effect before McGlone's death,
and became operative only as the result of his own
voluntary act.
McGlone was free to consent to a cancellation or revocation of Helena's waiver, or to make a valid bequest to
her of all or any of his property despite it. Further, he
could free her of the restraints of her waiver by voluntarily committing an act to which the applicable law
attached that consequence. This is what he did by
executing the codicil of July 6, 1934, voluntarily taking

IRVING TRUST CO. v. DAY.
556

Opinion of the Court.

advantage of the privilege of further testamentary disposition offered by the laws of New York. So long as McGlone
stood on the will made before the effective date of the
legislation, the law allowed him to avail himself of the full
force and effect of the waiver. Given his choice between
adhering to any will made before September 1, 1930, or of
bringing his estate under the new law, McGlone saw fit
to execute a further testamentary document after that
date and thus to bring the new legislation into operation
as to himself, his estate and survivors. For the purpose
of considering the application of the contract and due
process clauses of the Federal Constitution, the case is as
if he had made a voluntary legacy to his wife despite her
waiver. If the obligation of the waiver suffered impairment, it was only because he exercised further testamentary privileges with a condition attached, and thereby
brought those consequences unwittingly or intentionally
upon himself and his estate.
The condition clearly was such as New York might,
without restraint from the Federal Constitution, annex to
the privilege of making a will under its law. Its effect
was to continue as obligations of his estate social responsibilities which he had assumed during life," unless they
had been waived with required formality. The State
could have conditioned any further exercise of testamen'The Court of Appeals has said of.this legislation:
"After September 1, 1930, the absence of protection to the widow
under prior laws gave way to the widow's right of electibn to take a
specific part of the estate against the will. The inconsistency in our
old law which compelled a man to support his wife during his lifetime
and permitted him to cut her off with a dollar at his death, has given
way to a new public policy which no longer permits a testator to
dispose of his property as he pleases." Matter of Greenberg, 261
N. Y. 474, 478; 185 N. E. 704, 705.
When it enacted § 18 of the Decedent Estate Law, New York at
the same time abolished for the future ,the ancient estates and rights
of dower and curtesy, and made important changes in the rules as
to descent and distribution of property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Petitioner.

314 U. S.

tary power upon giving a right of election to the surviving
spouse regardless of any waiver, however formally executed; and having recognized the binding effect of a
waiver, it could condition that recognition upon acknowledgment, which was no doubt considered a desirable
safeguard against casual, informal, or ill-considered abandonment of statutory protection, as well as against overreaching or fraud.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the decision of
this case.
MEILINK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. UNEMPLOYMENT RESERVES C 0 M M I S S I0 N OF
CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 61.

Argued December 17, 18, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.

Section 45 of the Unemployment Reserves Act of California provides
that an employer who fails to make the payments required of him
by the Act "shall become additionally liable for interest on such
payments at the rate of twelve per cent per annum." Held, that the

exaction of twelve per cent per annum is not a "penalty" but is
"interest" within the meaning of § 57i of the Bankruptcy Act, and
a claim for the full amount thereof is allowable in bankruptcy.
P. 569.
116 F. 2d 330, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 588, to review the reversal of a decree denying in part a claim in bankruptcy.

Mr. W. Randolph Montgomery, with whom Mr. John
Walton Dinkelspiel-was on the brief, for petitioner.
Allowance of interest in excess of 7% per annum would
permit respondent to share in the bankrupt's estate to an
extent not represented by a pecuniary loss.

