480

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
314 U. S.

Syllabus.

redetermination of the issues in the light of this opinion.
We do not mean to intimate any views of our own as to
whether the Independent was dominated, or suggest to
the Board what its conclusion should be when it reconsiders the case. Since the Board rested the remainder of
its order in large part on its findings with respect to the
domination of the Independent, we do not at this time
reach the other parts of the Board's order, including the
command that the ,checked-off dues and assessments
should be refunded.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF TEXAS.

No. 44.. Argued November 19, 21, 1941.-Decided December 22, 1941.
1. Under R. S. § 3466, in the distribution of assets of an insolvent
debtor through a general receivership, an unsecured tax claim of
the United States takes priority over the like claim of a State.
P. 483.
2. The priority of unsecured claims of the United States under R. S.
§ 3466 attaches upon the taking over of the insolvent debtor's property by a general receivership and can not be divested by subsequent proceedings for the perfection of liens claimed by a State.
P. 486.
3. Article 7065a-7 of the Texas Civil Statutes declares that all
gasoline taxes due by any distributor to the State "shall be a preferred lien, first and prior to any and all other existing liens, upon
all the property of any distributor, devoted to or used in his business
as a distributor . . ." Held, that the lien thus created is not a
specific and perfect lien entitled to priority, despite R. S. § 3466, over
a claim of the United States, but is an inchoate and general lien
requiring further procedure to define and enforce it. P. 484.
138 S. W. 2d 924, reversed.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
480

Opinion of the Court.

CEoRTIoRAm, 313 U. S. 554, to review a judgment entered
in accordance with answers made by the Supreme Court
of Texas to questions certified to it by the court below.
The judgment, reversing a decision of the court of first
instance, upheld the claim of the State to priority over a
claim of the United States in the liquidation of the assets
of an insolvent debtor.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, and Clarence E. Dawson
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Pat M. Neff, Jr., Assistant Attorney !General Qf
Texas, with whom Messrs. GeraldC. Mann, Attorney General, and George W. Barcus, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. Jusizc

BmR

S delivered the opinion of the

Court.
W. L. Nix was a manufacturer and distributor of motor
fuel, doing business in Texas under the name of Texas
Refinery. On November 20, 1933, M. R. Ingraham, who
held a demand note secured by a chattel mortgage on certain tanks belonging to Nix, brought an action in the District Court of Gregg County, Texas. He alleged that demand had been made on the note, that it had not been
paid, that Nix owned no property in Texas other than that
of Texas Refinery, that the value of the mortgaged tanks
was insufficient to discharge the.note, that the tanks were
not used "for a separate purpose" but in the "operation
of the said refinery as a unit," and that Nix was insolvent.
He asked that judgment be entered in his favor for the
amount of the note, that -the mortgage be foreclosed, and
that in the. meantime a receiver be placed in charge of
"the-whole of the property" of Texas Refinery. On the
428670o-42----31

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

same day a receiver was appointed, and he was subsequently authorized to sell all of the refinery property.
On November 21, R. P. Ash intervened in the proceedings as the holder of an overdue note secured by a mortgage on the physical plant of the refinery not subject to
the Ingraham mortgage. Both the State of Texas and
the United States then intervened with the claims for
state and federal gasoline taxes, which are the subject of
the present dispute. Later, both the Ingraham and Ash
mortgage notes were assigned to Howard Dailey.
The District Court found that Nix was insolvent on
November 20, 1933, and continued to be insolvent thereafter. The sum available for distribution after sale of the
refinery property by the receiver was $7466.92. The court
found that, of these proceeds, $1294.80 was allocable to
those assets which were subject to the mortgages held by
Dailey, and it ordered that his claim to that amount be
first satisfied. It determined that Nix was liable to the
United States for $19,343.91 in federal gasoline taxes, and
to Texas for $40,312.51 in state gasoline taxes. As between the state and federal claims, it decided that the
United States was entitled to priority, and concluded
that nothing would be left to apply to the Texas claim.
From this order Texas appealed to the Court of Civil
Appeals for the Second District. That court certified the.
controlling questions to the Supreme Court of Texas.
The Supreme Court, on the authority of State v. Wynne,
134 Tex. 455, 133 S. W. 2d 951, a companion case decided
the same day, answered the questions.in such a way as to
require that the claim of Texas be first satisfied, that of
Dailey second, and that of the United States third. The
Court of Civil Appeals thereupon so ruled, noting that the
assets available would not completely satisfy even the
claim of Texas and that Dailey and the United States
would receive nothing. A motion by the United States
for a rehearing was denied, and the Supreme Court of

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
480

Opinion of the Court.

Texas refused to review the decision of the Court of Civil
Appeals. We granted the petition of the United States
for certiorari because of the important question of the fiscal relationship between state and federal governments:
which is involved.
No question as to the rights of'Dailey, the mortgagee,
is raised by this appeal. We confine ourselves, therefore,
to the only question presently open to decision: the relative priority of the claims of the United States and
Texas.
The United States rests its assertion of priority upon
§ 3466 of the Revised Statutes.' Despite the contention
of Texas to the contrary, that section clearly applies to
this proceeding. As we recently remarked in United
States v. Emory,2 § 3466 covers in terms the case of an
insolvent debtor who has committed an act of bankruptcy,
and there are few more familiar examples of an act of
bankruptcy than the appointment of a receiver because
of the debtor's insolvency. Cf. § 3 (a) (4) of the Bankruptcy Act, U. S. C., Title 11, § 21 (a) (4). Here the district court expressly found that Nix was insolvent, and it'
appointed a receiver. It is true that the original petition
was filed by a mortgagee rather than by a general creditor.
But, if any limitations upon the operation of § 3466 might
otherwise have flowed from this circumstance, they were
removed by the subsequent character of the proceeding.
' U.S. Rev. Stat. § 3466 (U. S. C., Title 31, § 191) provides: "Whenever any person indebted to the United States is insolvent, or whenever
the estate of any deceased debtor, in the hands of the executors or
administrators, is insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased, the debts due to the United States shall be first satisfied; and
the priority established shall extend as well to cases in which a debtor,

not having sufficient property to pay all his debts, makes a voluntary
assignment thereof, or in which the estate and effects of an absconding,
concealed, or absent debtor are attached by process of law, as to
cases in which an act of bankruptcy is committed."

'Ante, p. 423.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

The receiver was placed in control of all of Nix's assets,
rather than only those subject to the mortgage, and all of
the assets were eventually liquidated. Parties other than
the mortgagee, including Texas itself, intervened and were
heard. We think that realities require us-to treat the proceeding as a general equity receivership within the scope
of § 3466.
We are thus brought to the important issue in the case.
Article 7065a,-7 of the Texas Civil Statutes declared that
all gasoline taxes due by any distributor to the State
"shall be a preferred lien, first and prior to any and all
other existing liens, upon all of the property of any distributor, devoted to or used in his business as a distributor . . ." 8 It is the State's position that under this
section it held a specific and perfected lien upon the refinery property which entitled it to priority despite § 3466
of the Revised Statutes.
Section 3466 mentions no exception to its requirement
that "the debts due to the United States shall be first
satisfied." It is nevertheless true that in several early
decisions this Court read an exception into the section in
the case of previously executed mortgages. Thelusson v.
Smith, 2 Wheat. 396, 426; Conard v. Atlantic Insurance
Co., 1 Pet. 386; Brent v. Bank of Washington, 10 Pet. 596,
611, 612. This doctrine seems to have been based on the
S'The full text of the paragraph, as of Nov. 20, 1933, when the receiver was appointed read: "All taxes, fines, penalties and interest
due by any distributor to the State shall be a preferred lien, first and
prior to any and all other existing liens, upon all of the' property of
any distributor, devoted to or used in his business as a distributor,
which property shall include refinery, blending plants, storage tanks,
warehouses, office buildings and equipment, tank trucks or other motor
vehicles, or any other property devoted to such use, and each tract
of land on which such refinery, blending plant, tanks or other property
is located, or which is used in carrying on such business." This section
was repealed on May 1, 1941 by Article XVII, § 28 of the Acts of the
47th Legislature, and simultaneously replaced without significant
change by a new Article 7065b-8.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
480

Opinion of the Court.

theory that mortgaged property passes to the mortgagee
and is no longer a part of the estate of the mortgagor.
See Conard v. Atlantic Insurance Co., supra, at 441-442.
The question of whether the priority of the United States
under § 3466 would also be defeated by a specific and perfected lien upon property, whose title remained in the
debtor was reserved in those cases. Ibid.; Brent v. Bank
of Washington, supra, at 611-612. However, it was determined that a general judgment lien upon the lands of
an insolvent debtor does not take precedence over claims
of the United States unless execution of the judgment has
proceeded far enough to take the land out of the possession
of the debtor. Thelusson v. Smith, supra,at 425-426.
In more recent years the Court has had occasion to
consider the argument that liens created in favor of States
or counties by state statutes entitled them to priority
over the United States under § 3466. In Spokane County
v. United States, 279 U. S.80, the priority of the United
States was upheld. The state statutes involved provided
that if a certain personal property tax was not paid, and
if the personal property against which it had been assessed
was no longer in the hands of the delinquent taxpayer,
the amount of the unpaid fax should become a lien upon
all the real and personal property of the taxpayer. They
went on to prescribe the procedure by which the lien was
to be enforced. The Court determined that the statutory
lien did not become specific until this procedure had been
followed. Since these procedural conditions had not been
satisfied in the case before it, the Court refused priority
to the tax claims of the county. It specifically declined
to consider what "the effect of more completed procedure
in the perfecting of the liens under the law of the State"
would have been. 279 U. S. at 95.
The New York statute in New York v. Maclay, 288
U. S.290, declared that the corporate franchise tax there
involved should "be a lien and binding upon the real

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U.S.

and personal property of the corporation . . . until the
same is paid in full." 288 U. S. at 292. Although the
franchise taxes in question were overdue, the State had
taken no steps to perfect and liquidate its lien at the time
the receiver was appointed for the insolvent corporation.
Under such circumstances, the Court was of the opinion
that the tax claim of the State did not deprive the claim
of the United States of its priority under § 3466. It was
at pains to make clear, however, that it intended by its
decision to lend no support to the assumption that the
doctrine of the mortgage cases, whatever its current vitality, would require the subordination of unsecured claims
of the United States to a specific and perfected lien. 288
U. S. ,At 293-294.'
We think that it is equally unnecessary to test that
assumption here. Prior to the appointment of the receiver on November 20, 1933, the State of Texas had
made no move to assert the lien proclaimed in Article
7065a-7. And the priority which attached to the claim of
the United States on that day (United States v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S.253, 260) could not be divested by any
subsequent proceedings in connection with the State's
lien. New York v. Maclay, supra,at 293.
It is urged, however, that Article 7065a-7 by its own
force creates a specific and perfected lien. Support for
this contention is said to lie in the fact that the statutory lien purports to affect only the property of the
In United State8 v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253, the question was not
reached because it was found that the "insolvency" upon which the
operation of § 3466 is conditioned was absent. The Court sustained
the priority of the United States under § 3466 in United States v.
Knott, 298 U. S. 544. The Florida statutes there involved required
foreign surety corporations to deposit certain bonds with the State

Treasurer for the protection of Florida residents. This arrangement
was held to create no more than "an inchoate general lien" for the
benefit of unknown persons who might become entitled to the fund,

and not to limit the effect of § 3466.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
480

Opinion of the Court.

distributor which is "devoted to or used in his business
as a distributor," rather than his property in general.
This 'is
thought to make the lien sufficiently specific.
Moreover, the State argues, and the Supreme Court of
Texas has declared, that the provisions of the Texas Civil
Statutes which govern the levy, seizure and sale of the
property of delinquent taxpayers generally I are inapplicable to the gasoline tax. We are of course bound by this
authoritative construction of the statute.
With respect to this contention it may first be said that
the "property devoted to or used in his business as a distributor" is neither specific nor constant. But a more
important consideration is that the amount of the claim
secured by the lien is unliquidated and uncertain. As we
said in New York v.Maclay: "If the state were to ...
omit to ascertain the debt, it would never be able to sell
anything, for it would not know how much to sell." 288
U. S. at 293. That the legislature of Texas recognized this
is revealed by another section of the statute. Article
7065a-8 (d) declared that, in the event of default, when
it might become necessary for the State "to bring suit or to
intervene . . . for the establishment or collection" of its

claims in judicial proceedings, the tax reports required
of the distributor by other provisions of the statute 7
should be "prima facie evidence of the contents thereof,"
but "the incorrectness of said report or audit may be
shown." Thus, it was clearly envisaged that the amount
of the taxes due, for which the lien was security, should
be left to determination by the courts.
As to the nature of the proper procedure for levy, seizure, and sale, it is enough to say that some procedure is
essential. As we have indicated, the statutory scheme
reveals that the legislature contemplated resort to the
'State v. Wynne, 134 Tex. 455, at 473.
'See, esp., Articles 7266, 7272, and 7275 of the Texas Civil Ststutes.
'Article 7065a, §§ 2 (b), 2 (d), 8 (a), and 8 (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

488

Syllabus.

314 U. S.

courts. In addition to the statutory proisions referred
to above, Article 7065a-8 (e) regulates the pleadings in
suits by the Attorney General to collect the tax, and
Article 7065a-9 determines the venue of such suits.
Consequently, while it was clearly intended by Article
7065a-7 to create a lien in favor of the State, we must conclude that of necessity it was nothing more than an inchoate and general lien. Certainly it did not of its own
force divest the taxpayer of either title or possession. It
could not become specific until the exact amount of the
taxes due had been determined, and it could not be enforced without the assistance of the courts. Like the tax
lien in New York v. Maclay, supra,it served "merely as a
caveat of a more perfect lien to come." 288 U. S. at
294.
We are not now called upon to decide whether the chattel mortgages held by Dailey are entitled to priority over
the claim of the United States.8 We hold only that the
tax claim of the United States is entitled to priority over
the tax claim of Texas. The case is remanded to the
Court of Civil Appeals for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MORTON SALT CO. v. G. S. SUPPIGER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49.

Argued December 10, 1941.-Decided January 5, 1942.

1. A corporation, engaged through a wholly-owned subsidiary in the
business of selling salt tablets to the canning trade, and which also
The texts of the mortgages are not contained in the record: and
Dailey did not appear in this Court.

