306

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 36. Argued November "14, 17, 1941.--Decided December 8,
1941.

Frauculently impersonating an officer or employee of a corporation
owned or controlled by the United States was not an offense under
§ 32 of the Criminal Code, prior to its amendment by the Act of
February 28, 1938. P. 310.
115 F. 2d 399, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 552, to review the affirmance of
a conviction under an indictment for violation of § 32 of
the Criminal Code.

Mr. L. E. Gwinn for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Berge, with whom Assistant Solicitor General Fahy and Mi. Oscar Provost were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner was convicted under' an indictment charging
violation of § 32 of the Criminal Code. At the time of the
alleged offense it read as follows:
"Whoever, with intent to defraud either the United
States or any person, shall falsely assume or pretend to
be an officer or employee acting under the authority of the
United States, or any Department, or any officer of the
Government thereof, and shall take upon himself to act as
such, or shall in such pretended character demand or obtain from any person or from the United States, or any Department, or any officer of the Government thereof, any
money, paper, document, or other valuable thing, shall be
fined not more than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned
not more than three years, or both." 35 Stat. 1095; 18
U. S. C. § 76.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
306

Opinion of the Court.

The conviction was affirmed, 115 F. 2d 399, and certiorari
granted, 313 U. S.552, on account of petitioner's heretofore undecided contention of manifest error in the trial
court's refusal of an instruction that the statute did not
include within its scope false personation of officers or employees of a government corporation, i. e., the Tennessee
Valley Authority (TVA),
The section has been upon the statute books since April
.18, 1884. 23 Stat. 11. It was passed because of reports
to Congress, by the Pension Office, of fraudulent practices
affecting pension claimants. There is nothing in the legislative history which throws any light on the problem
posed. 1 Nor do we find any fruitful comments in the
various reports preliminary to the enactment of the Criminal Code, which adopted the original language without
significant change 2 Subsequently to the acts forming
the basis of the respective counts of the indictment, the
section was amended to include pretending to be an officer
or employee "of any corporation owned or controlled by
the United States." Act of Feb. 28, 1938, c. 37, 52
Stat. 82.
The counts of the indictment which were submitted to
the jury charged the defendant with falsely pretending to'
be an officer "of the United States, to wit, [a representative] of the Government selling T.V.A Units" then and
there taking upon himself to act as such officer with intent
to defraud separate individuals named in the counts or
with obtaining from the named individuals stated sums
of money with intent to defraud. The indictment states
crimes under the statute.
Cong. Rec. 1285, 2256, 2627, 2676, 48th Cong., 1st Sess.
'Report of the Special Joint Committee on-Revision of the Laws,
115

Sen. Rep. No. 10, 60th Cong., 1st Sess., Part 1, p. 40; Final Report

of the Commission to Revise and Codify the Laws of the United States,
Vol. 1, p. 101, Vol. 2, p. 1776 (1906); Report of the Commission to

Revise and Codify the Criminal Laws of the United States, Sen. Doc.
No. 68, 57th Cong., 1st Sess., Part 2, pp. ix and 12, § 37.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

On the trial it was stipulated that petitioner was not at
any time an agent, employee or representative of the
Government, or any department thereof, or of the TVA.
It was shown that TVA was a government corporation
and that it issued no stock or units for sale. The evidence
further showed petitioner was editor and vice president of
a newspaper, the Huntsville (Alabama) Daily Register,
and that the representations occurred during "a community publicity advertising" campaign. He carried a letter
from his paper introducing and identifying him as engaged
in getting out "the Muscle Shoals series of page newspaper
advertisements," and carried a bundle of the old issues of
the paper as demonstrations of the publicity assista'nce to
be given the TVA. The TVA units were participations
in the cost of the page advertisements in the Daily Register, telling of the TVA benefits to the community, which
cost the victims of the alleged swindle $10 each. Those
who purchased by cash or check received on the spot receipts of the Daily Register, signed by petitioner, for the
advertising cost paid. The wide publicity obtained from
the construction of the TVA flood and power project had
prepared the way for easy acceptance of the scheme by
the credulous. Some subscribers to the units, who felt
they had been duped by the salesman, testified to the circumstances of their fleecing on the occasions specified in
the indictment. Their evidence showed to the satisfaction of the jury that Pierce, taking upon himself to act
as a government employee, said or gave them the impression that he represented the Government, that the Government was contributing to the cost of the advertising
for the development of TVA, and that, as one witness
phrased it, the purpose was "Just the advancement of
TVA in our country." Another witness testified "It
never dawned on me that it was a personally owned
newspaper."

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
306

309

Opinion of the Court.

All the counts included a charge of impersonation of a
representative of the United States "selling TVA units."
The evidence, as to some, was that Pierce said he represented TVA; as to others, it was. that he represented the
Government selling TVA or TVA units.' In no instance
is there testimony that Pierce represented himself as an
employee or officer of the United States unconnected with
the public enterprise of the TVA at Muscle Shoals. The
instructions followed the charges and evidence. They
made clear that the charges against Pierce were for false
impersonation by assuming to act as an officer or employee
of the United States with fraudulent intent, and not
simply for obtaining money by false pretenses or false
claim of stimulating the Tennessee Valley development.
The instructions repeated, with many variations, the
thought that Pierce must have actually and intentionally
represented himself or assumed to be an officer of the
United States, acting under its authority.' .References
were made to TVA. It was said defendant was selling or
attempting to sell TVA units. . It was further pointed
out that the mention of TVA in the copies of the Daily
Register which were exhibited "by the defendant to any
person, from whom funds were solicited, and in the sales
talks madeby him to such person should not be considered
by you as evidence of a false claim or pretense of Federal
Authority on the part of the defendant, Pierce, unless you
further find and are satisfied from the proof, beyond a
reasonable doubt, that such reference to TVA, in either
the newspapers or sales talks, were made by the defendant
with the intent of producing a belief on the' part of the
person from whom funds were solicited that he, the defendant Pierce, was acting as an Officer or employee of the
Federal Government."
There was a refusal by the trial court, however, to give
the following instruction:

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

"At the request of the defendant, the Court further instructs the jury that the Tennessee Valley Authority,
commonly designated as TVA, although an instrumentality of the Federal Government, is a corporate entity,
separate and distinct from the Federal Government itself,
and the officers and employees of that corporation are not
within the scope of the statute on which the indictment
in this case is based. Consequently, any claim or representation by the defendant, if you find that such claim or
representation was made, that he was representing the
TVA, or was connected with the TVA as an officer or employee, would not constitute the false impersonation of an
officer or employee of the United States Government or
any department thereof, TVA officers and employees not
being officers and employees of the Federal Government
or some department thereof, within the meaning of the
statute which the defendant is alleged to have violated, in
the several counts of the indictment."
Nor do we find any comparable statement which was
given. In this refusal, we find material error.
So closely entwined were the TVA and the Government
(the United States) in the instructions and the evidence
on the various counts that any jury might well have
thought a pretense that Pierce was an employee or officer
of the TVA violated the statute, and have voted for conviction for that reason. This, however, in our view, is
incorrect, and constitutes prejudicial error. Cf. Warszower v. United States, 312 U. S. 342; Stromberg v. Calijornia,283 U. S.359; Nash v. United States, 229 U. S.373.
The statute in effect at the time of the commission of the
alleged offenses did not speak of pretenses of acting under
authority 'of corporations owned or controlled by the
United States. It was-passed in 1884 before the United
States owned or controlled corporations operating hotels,
boat lines, or generating plants. The amendments, subsequent to the occasions fixed by the indictment, extended

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
306

Opinion of the Court.

its scope first to the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, 49

Stat. 298, and later to all corporations owned or controlled
by the United States, 52 Stat. 82. These legislative extensions of the scope of the Act were in accord with the
growing importance of the administrative corporation,
but a comparable judicial enlargement of a criminal Act
by.interpretation is at war with a fundamental concept
of the common law that crimes must be defined with appropriate definiteness. Cf. Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 306
U. S. 451, and cases cited.. While the act should be interpreted "so as . . . to give full effect to its plain terms,"
Lamar v. United States, 241 U.,S. 103, 112; United States
v. Barnow, 239 U. S. 74, we should not depart from its
'The reports of the Judiciary Committee of the Senate and of the
House of Representatives bear upon their view of the proper interpretation of the act in its original form. The reports incorporated the
following letter:
"OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,

Washington, D. C., May 7, 1937.
Hon. WiLLIAM B. BANKHEAD,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, D. C.
My DEAR MR.SPEAKER: The existing law makes it a crime toimpersonate any officer or employee of the United States with intent to
defraud (Criminal Code, sec. 32; U. S. Code, title 18, sec. 76). It
seems desirable to extend the scope of the act so as to penalize impersonation of officers and employees of Government-owned and Government-controlled corporations.
The maximum penalty that may now be imposed for the offense of
impersonation is imprisonment for a term of 3 years and a fine of
$1,000.' In aggravated cases a greater punishment may prove suitable, and I suggest increasing the maximum penalty to imprisonment
for 5 years and a fine of $5,000.
A bill to effectuate this purpose is submitted herewith.
Sincerely yours,
JOSEPH B. KEENAN,
Acting Attorney General."
H. Rep. No. 1763, 75th Cong., 3d Sess.; S. Rep. No. 823, 75th Cong.,
ist Sess.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

314 U. S.

words and context. Another section of the Criminal Code
(§ 35) was amended to meet the new development, by the
Act of October 23, 1918, 40 Stat. 1015. Cf. United States
v. Strang, 254 U. S. 491. The TVA Act made certain
federal penal statutes applicable to the Authority but
pointedly omitted § 32.' This pointed omission is indicative of intention.
Previous cases as to identity between the Government
and its corporations turned on considerations not here
applicable. In Emergency Fleet Corp. v. Western Union,
275 U. S. 415,426, the Corporation was held a department
of the Government within the meaning of the Post Roads
Act and so entitled to lower telegraph rates than private
corporations. An indictment under Criminal Code § 37
for a conspiracy to defraud the United States "in any
manner" was held to state a crime when the contemplated
fraud was upon the United States Emergency Fleet Corporation. United States v. Walter, 263 U. S.15, 17. But
this decision is bottomed on the broad ground that fraud
which interferes -with te swmcessful operation of the
'May 18, 1933, c. 32, § 21, 48 Stat. 68:
"(a) All general penal statutes relating to the larceny, embezzlement, conversion, or to the improper handling, retention, use, or disposal of public moneys or propelty of the United States, shall apply
to the moneys and property of the Corporation and to moneys and
properties of the United States intrusted to the Corporation.
"(b) Any person who, with intent to defraud the Corporation, or
to deceive any director, officer, or employee of the Corporation or
any officer or employee of the United States (1) makes any false entry
in any book of the Corporation, or (2) makes any false report or statement for the Corporation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not
more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
"(c) Any person who shall receive any compensation, rebate, or
reward, or shall enter into any conspiracy, collusion, or agreement,
express or implied, with intent to defraud the Corporation or wrongfully and unlawfully to defeat its purposes, shall, on conviction thereof,
be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than five years,
or both."

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
306

Opinion of the Court.'

Government is within the statute. Haas v. Henkel, 216
U. S. 462, 479, 480. On the other hand, in United States
v. Strang, supra, in construing Criminal Code § 41 ' this
Court held an employee of the Fleet Corporation was not
an agent of the United States within the true intendment
of the section. The Strang case had the approval of the
Court in the opinion deciding the Walter case. The statute in the Strang case points directly at a particular class
of persons as the object of the sanction. It leavep, as
does the statute here, no room for enlargement of its
meaning.
Reversed.
MR.JusncE DOUGLAS dissents on the ground that a false.
representation by the defendant that he was acting for
the Tennessee Valley Authority constituted a false pretense that he was an officer or employee acting under the
authority of the United States'or a department thereof,
within the meaning of § 32 of the Criminal Code.

MR.JusricE BLACK and MR. JusTlCE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

"Sec. 41. No officer or agent of any corporation, joint stock compqny, or association, and no member or agent of any firm, or person
directly or indirectly interested in the pecuniary profits or contracts of
such corporation, joint stock company, association, or firm, shall be
employed or shall act as an officer or agent of the United States for
the transaction of business with such corporation, joint stock company,
.association, or firm. Whoever shall violate the provision of this section shall be fined not more than two thousand dollars and imprisoned
not more than two years." 35 Stat. 1097; 18 U. S. C. § 93.

