TAYLOR v. McKEITHEN
Per Curiam

TAYLOR

ET. AL

v. McKEITHEN, GOVERNOR OF
LOUISIANA, ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF. CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES. COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT

'No. 71-784. Decided June 12,. 1972
The District.,Court in this litigation involving legislative reapportionment, after extensive hearings, approved a plan that departed
from historical boundaries as necessary to avoid dilution of racial
minority voting strength. The Court of Appeals, without opinion,
reversed, adopting Louisiana's plan retaining those boundaries.
Held: Absent an explication of the reasons for its summary
reversal of the District Court, the Court of Appeals' judgment
is vacated and the case iemanded.
Certiorari granted; vacated and remanded.

PER CURIAM.

The 1970 self-reaPportionment of the. Louisiana Legislature was challenged in this lawsuit on the dual grounds
that it offended -both the one-man, one-vote principle
and the prohibition against voting arrangements designed
to dilute the voting strength of racial minorities. After
the United States Attorney General interposed an objection to the election law change under ยง 5 of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965, 79 Stat. 439, 42 U. S. C. ยง 1973c, the
District Court appointed a Special Master to prepare
a court-imposed plan. The Master was verbally instructed to hold hearings and to devise a proposal to
maintain the integrity of political subdivisions and to
observe natural or historical boundaries "as nearly as
possible." He was also instructed that "[n]o consid-.
eration whatsoever was to be given'to the location of
the residence of either incumbents in office or of .announced or prospective candidates." Opinion of Judge
West, Civil Action No. 71-234, Aug. 24, 1971.
The Special Master held four days of hearings, during

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Per Curiam

407 U. S.

which over 100 persons were heard. Proposed plans
were received by him. No one was denied a hearing.
He then submitted his recommendation to the District
Court and after a hearing it was adopted by the court.
This dispute involves only four state senate seats
affected by the reapportionment. At the hearing held
by the District Judge on the Master's proposal, the
State Attorney General presented a counterplan which
differed from the Master's only with respect to four
senatorial districts in the New Orleans area. Although
the judge found that both plans satisfied the one-man,
one-vote requirement, he found that the two schemes
differed in their racial composition of the four districts,
as is set out in greater detail in the margin.1 Under
the State Attorney General's scheme, four "safe" white
districts were proposed whereas the Master's design
would have created two districts of slight majorities of
black voters. Also, under the counterplan each incumbent would continue to reside in his "own" district,
whereas under the Master's proposal the residences of the
four incumbents would fall evenly between the two districts to be composed primarily of white voters, ensuring
defeat for two of the four incumbents.
At the hearing the State Attorney General contended
that the court's plan would make hash of the traditional
ward-and-precinct lines. The District Court acknowledged that there would be some departure from the
historical patterns but concluded that the -"'historical'
'According to the District Judge's opinion, the percentages of
black registered yoters in each of the four districts under each of
the competing plans would be:
Master's
Plan
District 2 ....................... 51%
District 3 ......................
18%
District 4 ......................
58%
District 5 ....................... 20%

Attorney General's
Plan,
37.6%
25.7%
44.3%
24.0%

TAYLOR v. McKEITHEN
191

Per Curiam

boundaries of voting districts in Louisiana reflect[ed]
a history of racial discrimination.- Adherence to the
historical boundaries alluded to by objectors [had] been
the prime reason why only two negroes [had] been
allowed to sit in the Louisiana Legislature in the last
75 years." 333-F. Supp. 452, 462. The court found
that the alternative proposal would "operate to diversify
the negro -voting population throughout the four districts and thus significantly dilute their Vote" and would
practically eliminate "the possibility of a negro being
elected from any of the four districts," while the courtapproved plan would at least give blacks "a fair chance
in two out of the four districts. . . I." Id., at 457. The
court-approved plan sought "to protect the rights of
the people while the primary purpose of the Senators'
plan appear[ed] to be the protection of incumbent office
holders." Id., at. 458. Accordingly, as mentioned, the
District Court adopted the Master's recommendation.
Despite the District Court's findings, however, the
Court of Appeals reversed without opinion and adopted
the Attorney General's alternative division of New Orleans. The petitioners axe the original plaintiffs and
they now seek review of this summary reversal.
An examination, of the record in this case suggests
that the Court of Appeals may have believed that benign
districting by federal judges is itself unconstitutional
gerrymandering even where (a) it is employed to overcome the residual effects of past state dilution of Negro
voting strength and (b) the only alternative is to leave
intact the. traditional "safe" white districts. 2 If that
It is possible, but unlikely, that the Court of Appeals believed
that benign districting, although permissible, was achievable here
with less violence to the parish's historical district lines. But had
that been its view presumably the court would have remanded for
the construction of a -less drastic alternative rather than simply directing the adoption of the Attorney General's counterplan.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Per Curiam

407 U. S.

were in fact the reasoning of the lower court, then this
petition would present an important federal question
of the extent to which the broad equitable powers of
a federal court, Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board
of Education,402 U. S. 1, 15, are limited by the colorblind
concept of Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339, and
Wright v. Rockefeller, 376 U. S. 52, 57, 67 (DOUGLAS, J.,

dissenting).'

In reapportionment, cases, as

JUSTICE

STEWART has observed, "the federal courts are often going

to be faced with hard remedial problems" in minimizing
friction between their remedies and legitimate state policies. Sixty-Seventh Minnesota State Senate v. Beens,
406 U. S. 187, 204 (dissenting opinion).
Because this record does not fully inform us of the
precise nature of the litigation and because we have
not had the benefit of the insight of the Court of Appeals, we grant the petition for writ of certiorari, vacate
the judgment below, and remand the case to the Court 'of
Appeals for proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
3Although similar in some respects, this case is not controlled by
Whitcomb v. Chavis, 403 U. S. 124. To be sure, in both cases the
District Courts were writing, on clean slates in -the sense that they
were fashioning court-imposed reapportionment plans. And, in
each case the equitable remedy of the court conflicted with a state
policy. (There the state policy favored multi-member districts
whereas here the policy favors maintenance of traditional boundaries.) The important difference, however, is that in fVhitcomb it
was conceded that the State's' preference, for multi-member districts
was not rooted in racial discrimination, 403 U. S., at 149. Here,
however, there has been no such concession and, indeed, the District
Court found a long "history" of bias and franchise dilution in the
State's traditional drawing of district lines. Cf. id., at 155.
4 We, of course, agree that the courts of appeals should have wide
latitude in their decisions*of whether or how to write opinions. That
is especially true with respect to summary affirmances. See Rule 21,
Court of-Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Bat here the lower court
summarily reversed without any opinion' on a point that had been
considered at length by the District. Judge. Under the special

TAYLOR v. McKEITHEN
191

REHNQUIST

J., dissenting

MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN concurs in the Court's judgment.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

JUSTICE

with whom THE CHIEF

and MR. JUSTICE POWELL join, dissenting.

The short recitation of specific facts in the Court's
opinion makes clear. that the issues in this case, as viewed
by both petitioners and respondents, are well-developed
in the record. The federal questions adverted. to by the
Court in its opinion are undoubtedly important Ones.
They are either presented by the proceedings below on
this record, or they are not; this Court, in exercising its
certiorari jurisdiction, may wish to consider such problems as are presented in this case at this time, or it may
not. While an opinion from the Court of Appeals fully
explaining the reason for its reversal of the District Court
would undoubtedly be of assistance to our exercise of
certiorari jurisdiction here, it is by no means essential."
I do not believe that the Court's vacation of the judgment
below with a virtually express directive to the Court of
Appeals that it write an opinion is an appropriate exercise of this Court's authority.
The courts of appeals are statutory courts, having the
power to prescribe rules for the conduct of their own
business so long as those rules are consistent with applicable law and rules of practice and procedure prescribed
by this Court, 28 U. S. C. ยง 2071. No existing statute or
rule of procedure prohibits the Fifth Circuit from issuing
a short opinion and order, as it has done here, or from
deciding cases without any opinion at all.. Cf. Rule 21,
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The courts of
circumstances of this case, we are loath to impute to the Court of
Appeals reasoning that would raise a substantial federal question
when it is plausible that its actual ground of decision was of more
limited importance.
1See, e. g., Lego v. Twomey, 404 U. S. 477, 482 n. 6 (1972).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
RZHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

407 U. S.

appeals, and particularly the Fifth Circuit, which has
experienced the heaviest caseload of all the circuits, need
the maximum possible latitude to deal with the "flood
tide" of appeals that the "ever growing explosive increase" of federal judicial business has produced. See
Isbell Enterprises, Inc. v. Citizens Casualty Co., 431 F.
2d 409 (CA5 1970); NLRB v. Amalgamated Clothing
Workers, 430 F. 2d 966 (CA5 1970).2
If there are important federal questions presented in
this record, this Court should address itself to them. Instead of doing that, it calls upon the Fifth Circuit to
write an amicus curiae opinion to aid us. I think decisions as to whether opinions should accompany judgments of the courts of appeals, and the desirable length
and content of those opinions are matters best left to the
judges of the courts of appeals. I therefore dissent from
the order of vacation and remand.

In fiscal year 1971, 2,316 new matters were docketed in the Fifth
Circuit, 380 more than in any of the other circuits. This represented
a 120% increase in a 10-year period, although the number of circuit judges was increased by only 60%. Annual Report of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts 106
(1971). The increase in the business of the courts of appeals has
been almost exponential. In 1961 the Fifth Circuit carried over only
278 cases that were undisposed of. By 1970 there were 1,181 cases
put over to the succeeding year. NLRB v. Amalgamated Clothing
Workers, 430 F. 2d 966, 968 n. 4 (CA5 1970).

