OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

KOLZE v. HOADLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 91.

Submitted December 5, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1900.

In construing ยง I of the act of August 13, 18S8, which provides that Circuit
and District Courts shall not have cognizance of suits to recover the contents of any promissory note or chose in action in favor of an assignee or
subsequent holder unless the suit could have been prosecuted in such
court, if no assignment or transfer had been made, this court has held
that:
A suit to recover the contents of a promissory note or other chose in
action is a suit to recover the amount due upon such note, or the
amount claimed to be due upon an account, personal contract or other
chose in action.
A suit to foreclose a mortgage is within the inhibition of the act, and can
only be maintained where the assignor was competent to file the bill.
'The bill or other pleading must contain an averment showing that the
suit could have been maintained by the assignor if the assignment
had not been made.
A suit may be maintained between the immediate parties to a promissory note as indorser or indorsee, provided the requisite diversity of
citizenship appears as between them, or upon a new contract arising
subsequently to the execution of the original, notwithstanding a suit
could not have been maintained upon the original contract, and in
such case the original contract may be considered to ascertain the
amount of damages.
Although an action of fraud might be sustained upon the facts involved in
an action where the requisite diversity of citizenship exists if the suit is in
substance one to foreclose a mortgage, and it appears by the bill that the
fraud is a mere incident, the suit is one within the meaning of ยง 1 of the
act of August 13, 1888, and will not lie in a Federal court unless plaintiff's
assignor might have maintained the bill had no transfer been made.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court in
favor of the plaintiff, Charlotte E. Hoadley, a citizen of Massachusetts, against Abraham L. Day and other defendants,
among whom were Fred H. Kolze, administrator of the estate
of Frederich Kolze, deceased; Lina Kolze, his widow; Louisa
Kolze, his daughter, and Charles E. Stade, trustee, all citizens
of Illinois, foreclosing three trust deeds given by Day to secure

KOLZE v. HOADLEY.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $5,400. The
appeal was granted solely upon the question of jurisdiction.
The point involved requires a statement of facts at some
length. They are substantially as follows:
Frederich Kolze sold and conveyed certain real estate to
Day by warranty deed dated and acknowledged November 15, 1897, for a stated consideration of $45,000, namely,
$1,000 in cash and the remainder in notes secured by trust
deeds. To secure such notes Day executed three trust deeds
to one Stade as trustee, conveying the real estate in question,
which were dated November 17 and acknowledged and recorded November 24, 1897. Kolze thereupon intrusted the
notes and trust deeds to Stade, a nephew, in whom he seemed
to have great confidence, the notes being executed by Day
to his own order and by him indorsed in blank.
On February 17, 1898, Stade took the notes and trust deeds
securing the same and pledged them to Charlotte E. Hoadley
as collateral security to his own notes, upon which Hoadley
then advanced, or secured to be advanced, a large sum of
money.
By deed dated and acknowledged November 23, 1897, but
not delivered or recorded until June 30, 1898, Day reconveyed
the premises to Kolze, and by deed of release, dated and acknowledged October 27, 1898, and recorded October 29, 1898,
Stade as trustee fraudulently released said three trust deeds
to Kolze, reciting a consideration of one dollar and other
valuable considerations, and further reciting that the notes
secured thereby had been cancelled.
By deed dated October 29, 1898, Kolze, now deceased, and
the appellant, Lina Kolze, his wife, conveyed said premises
to Louisa Kolze, their daughter, upon an expressed consideration of $12,000, although the grantee was not a bona fide purchaser, and said conveyance was made to her to hold for the
benefit of the family.
For the ostensible purpose of securing the payment of the
purchase money, said Louisa Kolze executed a trust deed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

secure her promissory note of 810,000, to Percy V. Castle, as
trustee. This deed was dated October 27, 1898, acknowledged
October 28, 1898, and recorded October 29, 1898, the appellant
Fred HI. IKolze, as administrator of the estate of his father,
being the owner of said notes and trust deeds, subject, as was
alleged, to the rights of the plaintiff Hoadley.
Subsequently, on or about April 21, 1899, the notes and
trust deeds of Day, upon default by Stade in the payment of
his note, were sold in accordance with the terms of the collateral note, and were bought in by and became the property
of the appellee Iloadley.
The bill prayed that the release deed executed by Stade to
Frederich Kolze be declared fraudulent and void as against
the notes and trust deeds executed by Day and now owned
by the plaintiff; that the rights of all the defendants be declared subject to those of the plaintiff under the notes and
deeds held by her; that a receiver be appointed and an account
had, and the defendants be decreed to pay whatever was due
under the notes and trust &ceds, and in default thereof that
the premises be sold and the defendants be held liable for any
deficiency upon such sale, and that they all be foreclosed of
their right of redemption.
The defendants moved to dismiss the amended bill for want
of a proper allegation of diversity of citizenship, which was
overruled; and thereupon defendants interposed a plea to the
jurisdiction upon the ground that the defendants were all
citizens of the State of Illinois; that the suit was brought by
plaintiff as the assignee of one William P. Smith, to whom the
notes had been hypothecated by Stade to secure his (Stade's)
note, and also to secure Smith for the faithful performance by
Stade of a certain contract of employment; that upon the
failure of Stade to pay his note and carry out his contract said
mortgage notes and trust deeds signed by Day were sold on
or about April 21, 1899, and were bought in by and became
the property of the plaintiff; that Stade and Smith, "the
successive assignors" of the appellee, were citizens of the

KOLZE v. HOADLEY.
200 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

State of Illinois, the same State of which Day, the maker of
the notes was also a resident, and that by reason of the fact
that said suit could not have been prosecuted in a Federal
court, if no transfer or assignment had been made, the Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction of the case.
This plea was held to be insufficient, and the defendants
failing to answer, were defaulted, and a decree thereafter
entered to the effect that Stade as trustee had fraudulently
released the trust deeds; that the trust deeds were valid as
liens upon the premises; that the rights of Louisa Kolze,
subsequent grantee under the warranty deed, as well as the
deed of Kolze, were subject and subsequent to the rights of
the plaintiff as the owner of the notes and deeds signed by
Day; that the property be sold and the defendants foreclosed
of their equity of redemption.
Thereupon defendants appealed to this court solely upon
the question of jurisdiction.
Mr. Joha T. Rickards for appellants:
The Circuit Court shall have no jurisdiction over suits for
the recovery of the contents of promissory notes or other
choses in action brought in favor of assignees or transferees,
except over (1) suits upon foreign bills of exchange; (2) suits
that might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents if no assignment or transfer had been made,
and (3) suits upon choses in action payable to bearer and made
by a corporation. Sec. 1, act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat.
552, as corrected by act of August 13, 1888, c. 886, 25 Stat. 433.
Newgass v. New Orleans, 33 Fed. Rep. 196; New Orleans v.
Quinlan, 173 U. S. 191; 1 Foster's Federal Practice, 3d ed., 82.
The phrase "suits to recover the contents of a chose in
action" includes suits to foreclose mortgages. Black on
Mortgages, 567; 1 Foster's Fed. Prac., 83. Hence when mortgagor and mortgagee are citizens of the same State, an assignee
of the mortgagee, though a citizen of another State, cannot
maintain a bill for foreclosure in the Federal courts. Black

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

200 U. S.

on The Law of Mortgages and Deeds of Trust, 567, citing
Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441; Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124 U. S.
730; Blacklock v. Small, 127 U. S. 96; Hill v. Winne, Fed.
Cases, No. 6503.
Where Federal jurisdiction is dependent upon the citizenship of the plaintiff's assignor at time of commencement of
suit, the citizenship of the latter must affirmatively appear
somewhere in the record. Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 649;
Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S. 702; North American Trans. Co.
v. Morrison, 178 U. S. 267.
The defect is ground for a motion to dismiss at any stage
of the proceedings. Florida Cent. R. R. Co. v. Bell, 176 U. S.
327; Blackburn v. PortlandGold M. Co., 175 U. S. 574; Municipal Ins. Co. v. Gardiner, 62 Fed. Rep. 954.
But the court should of its own motion dismiss the suit
whenever it discovers the defect. N. Am. Trans. Co. v. Morrison, 178 U. S. 267; act of 1875, 18 Stat. 472, c. 137. The
dismissal in accordance with the above section may be ordered
upon motion of the defendant or by the court of its own motion. Wetmore v. Ryder, 169 U. S. 120; Nashua &c. Ry. Co.
v. Boston, 136 U. S. 356, 374; Mexican Cent. R. R. Co. v.
Pinkney, 149 U. S. 200; Lake Co. Commrs. v. Dudley, 173 U. S.
243.
The design of the act of 1875 was to impose a peremptory
duty to dismiss whenever it is properly made to appear that
the court has no jurisdiction. Lake Co. Comnrs. v. Dudley,
173 U. S. 243; Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315, 325; Anderson
v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694. It is the duty of the Supreme Court
on appeal to see that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court has
in no respect been imposed upon. Morris v. Gilmer, supra;
Nashua &c. Ry. v. Boston, supra.
Mr. Herman W. Stillman for appellee:
The three acts passed relating to the enforcement of promissory notes and choses in action in the United States courts,
by assignees, are ยง 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789; the act of

KOLZE v. HOADLEY.
Argument for Appellee.

200 U.S.

March 3, 1875; and the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected by
the act of August 13, 1888. See New Orleans v. Quinlan, 173
U. S. 191.
The purpose of the restriction as to suits by assignees was
to prevent the making of assignments of choses in action for
the purpose of giving jurisdiction to the Federal courts, and
in construing it the courts will look to the spirit of the act,
and will consider the real relation of the parties. If it appears
from all the circumstances that the assignment could'not have
been colorable for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction, then,
the reason of the restriction being gone, the jurisdiction of
the United States courts will attach. Holmes v. Goldsmith,
147 U. S. 150; Farmingtonv. Pillsbury, 114 U. S. 138.
The restriction against suits by assignees of promissory
notes or choses in action in United States courts, "unless such
suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents if no assignment or transfer had been made,"
has reference to diverse citizenship only. No disqualification
of the assignor, other than want of diverse citizenship, will
prevent suit by the assignce. Chase v. Sheldon Roller-Mills
Company, 56 Fed. Rep. 625; Bowden, v. Burnham, 59 Fed.
Rep. 752.
The language of the act implies, in order that the denial of
jurisdiction at the suit of an assignee shall apply, that, but
for the assignment, a claim would exist on the part of the
assignor against the original debtor. When a claim would
not exist on the part of the assignor, had no assignment been
made, the reason of the act will be wanting, and jurisdiction
will attach. Cases supra and National Bank v. Stove Works,
56 Fed. Rep. 321.
Jurisdiction depends upon the status of the parties at the
commencement of the suit. Emsheimer v. New Orleans, 186
U. S. 33.
The Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction of
a suit brought by the indorsee of a promissory note against
his immediate indorser, whether a suit would lie by the inVOL. cc-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
I pinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

dorser against the mortgagor or not, upon the ground that
the indorsee does not claim through an assignment, but upon
a new contract between himself and the indorser. Young v.
Bryan, 6 Wheat. 146; Superior v. Ripley, 138 U. S. 93; Conolty
v. Taylor, 2 Pet. 556.
Under the circumstances of this case the principal relief
sought was the setting aside of the release deed. Having
jurisdiction for that purpose, the court properly retained it
for complete relief. Ober v. Gallagher, 93 U. . 199; Deshler
v. Dodge, 16 How. 622.
MR. JusTlo BRowN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole question presented by the record in this case is
whether this is a suit to recover the contents of a chose in
action, in favor of an assignee, which could not have been
prosecuted if no assignment or transfer had been made.
By section 1 of the act of August 13, 1888, it is provided
that no Circuit nor District Court "shall have cognizance of
any suit . . . to recover the contents of any promissory
note or chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of any
subsequent holder, . . . unless such suit might have been
prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents, if no
assignment or transfer had been made." This language is
taken from the original Judiciary Act of 1789, and has been
in force, except for a few years, since the foundation of the
Government.
In construing this clause the decisions of this court have settled the following propositions:
1. That a suit to recover the contents of a promissory note
or other chose in action is a suit to recover the amount due upon
such note, or the amount claimed to be due upon an account,
personal contract, or other chose in action. Sere v. Pitot, 6
Cranch, 332; Deshler v. Dodge, 16 How. 622, 631; Bushnell v.
Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387; Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124 U. S. 730.

KOLZE v. HOADLEY.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Corbin v. Coznty of Black Hawk, 105 U. S. 659, a suit to
compel the specific performance of a contract was held to be
within the statute, Mr. Justice Blatchford observing (page 665):
"The contents of a contract, as a chose in action, in the sense
of section 629, are the rights created by it in favor of a party
in whose behalf stipulations are made in it which he has a right
to enforce in a suit founded on the contract; and a suit to enforce such stipulations is a suit to recover such contents."
2. That a suit to foreclose a mortgage is within the inhibition
of the act, and can only be maintained where the assignor was
competent to file the bill. Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441; Blacklock v. Small, 127 U. S. 96.
3. That the bill or other pleading must contain an averment
showing that the suit could have been maintained by the assignor if no assignment had been made. Turner v. Bank of
North America, 4 Dall. 8; Mollan v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537;
Bradley v. Rhines' Administrator, 8 Wall. 393; Anderson v.
Watt, 138 U. S. 694, 702; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646, 649;
Brock v. Northwestern Fuel Co., 130 U. S. 341.
4. That a suit may be maintained between the immediate
parties to a promissory note as indorser and indorsee, provided
the requisite diversity of citizenship appears as between them,
or upon a new contract arising subsequently to the execution
of the original, notwithstanding a suit could not have been
maintained upon the original contract. In such case the original contract may be considered to ascertain the amount of the
damages. Young v. Bryan, 6 Wheat. 146; Bank of United
States v. Moss, 6 How. 31; Superior City v. Ripley, 138 U. S. 93;
Mollan v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537; ManufacturingCompany v.
Bradley, 105 U. S. 175.
This is primarily a suit to foreclose certain mortgages. Instead of setting up the mortgages, their maturity and nonpayment, and their assignment to plaintiff, leaving to the defendants to plead the release by Stade of October, 1898, as an
extinguishment of the mortgages, she has chosen to set forth
the entire facts, to attack the release as fraudulent as against

OCTOIER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

her, and to insist that the original notes and trust deeds are
valid in her hands, and to pray for a foreclosure of the same.
The gravamen of the suit and the object to be attained are
unaffected by the form of her bill. The suit is still in substance
a suit to foreclose the trust deeds, and to remove the release as
a cloud upon her title to them.
It may be that an action for fraud might have lain against
the parties implicated, regardless of the citizenship of the parties from whom the plaintiff traced her title, or possibly a bill
in equity to cancel the release deed of Stade and remove a cloud
from the title. But where a bill is filed to foreclose a mortgage,
and it appears by the bill itself that the mortgage has been
fraudulently released to the mortgagor by a deed of which plaintiff had no notice, and the fraud is a mere incident, the bill is
still one to recover the contents of a mortgage within the meaning of the act, and will not lie in a Federal court unless the
plaintiff's assignor might have maintained the bill, if no assignment or transfer had been made. It would advantage the
plaintiff nothing to obtain a cancellation of the release without
also foreclosing the mortgage in the same or a subsequent suit,
while a right to foreclose the mortgage could not be established
without incidentally avoiding the release.
In this aspect of the case it would seem to be immaterial
whether the plaintiff derived her title directly from Stade, to
whom she had advanced money and afterwards purchased the
notes and trust deeds, as alleged in the bill, or through William
P. Smith, who had obtained the notes and trust deeds from
Stade, his debtor, since both Stade and Smith were citizens of
the State of Illinois, and the inhibition of the statute would
apply in either case.
The case of Blacklock v. Small, 127 U. S. 96, is similar, and
we think practically decisive of the one under consideration.
A suit was brought in the Circuit Court for South Carolina by
two daughters of John F. Blacklock, who were citizens of Georgia, against certain defendants, who were citizens of South
Carolina. It seems that Blacklock had sold a house and lot in

KOLZE v. HOADLEY.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Charleston to the defendant Small, who had given back a bond
and mortgage to secure a portion of the purchase money; that
Blacklock subsequently assigned the bond to Ale.xmnder Robinson in trust, for his (Blacklock's) children; that Small pretended to pay the bond by making payment to Robinson in
Confederate treasury notes; that upon receipt thereof, Robinson satisfied the mortgage and delivered up the bond to Small;
that Robinson, in receiving such payment, violated his duty,
and was guilty of a breach of trust; that Small, in attempting
to pay the debt in illegal currency, with full notice of the trust,
had not paid the debt; that the satisfaction of the mortgage
was void; that its lien was still subsisting, and that Small was
still liable for the amount due upon the bond. It was held that,
as the suit was one against Small, founded upon contract,
namely, his bond and mortgage in favor of plaintiffs, who
claimed only under the assignment made by their father, John
F. Blacklock, to the defendant Robinson, such suit would not
lie, inasmuch as plaintiff's assignor, John F. Blacklock, was a
citizen of South Carolina and of the same State as Small. In
answer to this it was insisted that the suit should not be considered as one founded upon the contract of Small, but as one
for the delivery of the bond and mortgage by Small to the
plaintiffs, founded on their wrongful detention, and that the
foreclosure and sale of the premises prayed for was merely ancillary and incidental. The contention was held to be unsound,
Mr. Justice Blatchford saying that the bill was clearly one for
a decree for the amount of the bond and a sale of the mortgaged premises. In other words, the foreclosure and sale were
treated as the main objects of the bill, and the breach of trust
of Small as a mere incident. The cases of Deshler v. Dodge, 16
How. 622, and Butshnell v. Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387, were cited and
distinguished.
By analogy to Blacklock v. Small, we think the gravamen of
this case must be treated as the foreclosure of the trust deeds
in question, and the prayer for a cancellation of the release
given by Stade to Frederich Kolze as a mere clearing of the way

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

to a decree establishing the title of the plaintiff to the notes and
trust deeds. As the plaintiff is thus compelled to trace her
title through Stade or Smith, who are both citizens of Illinois,
and neither of whom coulI have prosecuted this suit, she is
affected by the same incompetency.
The case of Holmes v. Goldsmith, 147 U. S. 150, on which the
plaintiff relies, is not in point. That was an action by a nonresident against the maker of a note, who had signed it entirely
for the benefit of the payee, who was really the party for whose
use it was made. The maker and payee were citizens of the
same State. The plaintiff, a bona fide holder, had paid full
value for it to the payee, who had indorsed it to him. It was
held the court had jurisdiction; that evidence showing the real
relation of the parties was admissible, and that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court "was properly put by the court below
upon the proposition that the true meaning of the restriction
in question was not disturbed by permitting the plaintiffs to
show that, notwithstanding the terms of the note, the payee
was really a maker or original promissor, and did not, by his
indorsement, assign or transfer any right of action held by him
against the accommodation makers."
The decree of the Circuit Courtis therefore reversed, and the case
remanded to that court with instructions to dismiss the bill.

