OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

the fine is "in the eye of the law, a punishment for the offense
committed, and not the particular object of the suit." United
States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159, 174. Moreover, appellant could
hardly be allowed to invoke our jurisdiction on the ground that
if his appeal were sustained he might be fined on a new judgment.
The term of office had expired before the rendition of judgment by the Territorial Supreme Court, and as to the effect of
the judgment of ouster in a suit to recover emoluments for the
past, that is collateral, even though the judgment might be
conclusive in such subsequent action. New England Mortgage
Security Company v. Gay, 145 U. S. 123; Washington & Georgetown Railroad Company v. District of Columbia, 146 U. S. 227.
Appeal dismissed.

NUTT v.

I1UT.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 78.

Argued November 29, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.

An attorney was employed to prosecute a claim against the United States; the
contract which was in writing provided that he should prosecute it before
the courts, officers and departments of the Government and Congress; that
he should receive as compensation a sum equal to a specified percentage
of the amount allowed, the payment whereof was made a lien upon the recovery. The prosecution was successful and the amount allowed was collected by the claimant himself. The attorney sued in the state court on
the contract and recovered a judgment, his claim being resisted on the
ground that the contract was void under § 3477, Rev. Stat., prohibiting
transfers of claims against the United States, and also that being for lobbying services was void against public policy. He also sought a recovery
upon a quantum meruit. He moved to dismiss the writ of error on the
ground that there was no Federal question, held in affirming the judgment
that
A party who insists in the state court that a judgment cannot be rendered
against him consistently with a statute of the United States asserts, within

NUTT v. KNUT.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the meaning of § 709, Rev. Stat.; a right and immunity under such statute,
although it might not give him a personal or affirmative right, enforceable
in direct suit against his adversary, and a writ of error will lie from this
court to review the judgment denying the existence of such right or immunity. The contract, so far as it gave a lien on the amount allowed, was
void under § 3477, Rev. Stat., but the provision agreeing to pay the compensation fixed was not in violation of the statute and could stand alone.
The state court having held, on evidence taken in that regard, that the suit
was not one for lobbying services, this court accepts that view of the
case.
THIS suit was brought in the Chancery Court of Adams
County, Mississippi, the plaintiff being S. Prentiss Knut, defendant in error, and the defendants being the administrator,
heirs and devisees of Haller Nutt, deceased.
It was based upon a written contract between the late James
W. Denver and the (then) executrix of Haller Nutt, deceased,
as follows: "That the party of the first part (Denver) agrees to
take exclusive charge and control of a certain claim which the
party of the second part (executrix of Nutt's estate) holds
against the Government of the United States, for the use of
property and for property of which the said Hailer Nutt and
his estate was deprived by the acts of officers, soldiers and employ6s of the United States in Louisiana and Mississippi, in the
years 1863, 1864 and 1865, amounting to one million of dollars,
more or less, and to prosecute the same before any of the courts
of the United States, and upon appeal to the Supreme Court of
the United States, or before any of the departments of Government, or before the Congress of the United States, or before any
officer or commission or convention specially authorized to take
cognizance of said claim, or through any diplomatic negotiations as may be deemed by him for the best interests of the
party of the second part. And in consideration therefor the
party of the second part agrees to pay the party of the first part
a sum equal to 331- per cent of the amount which may be allowed on said claim, the payment of which is hereby made a
lien upon said claim and upon any draft, money or evidence of
indebtedness which may be issued thereon. This agreement

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

not to be affected by any services performed by the claimant,
or by any other agents or attorneys employed by him. All
expenses of printing, costs of court and commission fees for taking testimony are to be charged to the party of the second part,
and the party of the second part agrees to execute from time to
time such powers of attorney as may be convenient or necessary for the successful prosecution and collection of said claim.
No revocation of any authority conferred on the party of the
first part by this agreement or any power of attorney relating
to the business covered by the same to be valid."
On the same day the executrix of Nutt executed to Denver
a power of attorney, constituting the latter her attorney "irrevocable," for her and in her name and stead "to prosecute a
certain claim against the Government of the United States, for
property used and for property of which said Haller Nutt and
his estate was deprived by United States officers, soldiers and
employ6s in Louisiana and Mississippi, amounting to one million
dollars, more or less, before any court of the United States, or
before any of the department of the Government, or before the
Congress of the United States, or before any officer or commission or convention specially authorized to take cognizance of
said claim, or through any diplomatic negotiations, to collect
the same; and from time to time to furnish any further evidence necessary, or that may be demanded, giving and granting
to my said attorney full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary
to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as I might or could do if personally present at the
doing thereof, with full power of substitution and revocation,
and to receipt and sign all vouchers and bonds of indemnity or
appeal and to indorse all drafts and vouchers in my name, either
by or without indicating it is done by procuration, which may
be requisite in the prosecution or collection of said claim, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that my said attorney or his substitute may or shall lawfully do, or cause to be done by virtue
hereof."

NUTT v. KNUT.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The petition shows, and it is not disputed, that the plaintiff
succeeded to all the rights, whatever they were, of Denver under the above contract, and that as the result of his labors Congress at different times appropriated, on account of the Nutt
claim, the sums of $35,556.51 and $89,999.88. 23 Stat. 552,
586; 32 Stat. 207, 212. Prior to the bringing of the present
suit the plaintiff had received his "due share" of the first appropriation, but has not received his full part of the last one.
He therefore sought payment, in accordance with the contract,
for the balance due him on account of the said sum of $89,999.88
appropriated to and received by the Nutt estate.
The plaintiff subsequently amended his petition, and asked
that in the event of his not being entitled to compensation under the Denver contract he have judgment for such sum as his
services were reasonably worth, which he alleged to be $30,000.
Some of the defendants by their answers put the plaintiff
upon proof of his case but submitted to the court the question
of the reasonableness of his claim for fees.
Three of the defendants while not denying that plaintiff had
been recognized by the executrix and subsequent administrators of Nutt's estate as the attorney of record against the United States Government, yet denied any legal liability of the
estate by reason of such recognition. They averred that "the
original contract and power of attorney as assignee of which
petitioner claims to recover from the present administrator 33per cent of said sum of $89,999.88 were contrary to good morals
and public policy, were null and void, so far as they undertook
to vest a right to a contingent fee in said Denver, and conferred
upon said Denver no rights for the recovery of any fee against
this estate which a court would recognize and enforce. And
respondents further charge that said petitioner, as assignee of
said Denver, occupies no better position than his assignor had,
and that as such assignee he has no standing in this court for
the enforcement of said void contract, or for the enforcement
of any claim whatever for professional services rendered by
him, or alleged to have been rendered by him in behalf of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plainutiffs in Error.

200 U. S.

estate in connection with said claim against the United States
Government."
Upon the final hearing of the case in the court of original
jurisdiction the chancellor rendered a decree holding that the
Denver contract was "violative of the United States statute
laws, and being further of the opinion that complainant in the
prosecution of said claim under said contract before the Congress of the United States, in procuring and attempting to procure appropriations for the payment thereof, did procure personal solicitations to be made of members of Congress of the
United States in behalf of said claim, and for the reasons stated
is not entitled to the relief prayed for in his petition, doth order,
adjudge and decree that complainant's petition be and the same
is hereby dismissed at his cost, for which let execution issue."
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Mississippi the judgment was reversed, and that court, proceeding to render such
decree as in its opinion should have been rendered, adjudged
that the plaintiff was entitled "to his prayer for 33.- per cent
of the amount collected by his administrator, $89,993.83, in full
for any advance made by him and all services, less any payments made." 35 So. Rep. 686. The cause was remanded for
an account to be taken and for an order directing the administrator to pay to Knut any balance of that per cent unpaid.
The accounting was had in the inferior state court, Knut being
charged with $10,000 paid on June 10, 1902, and allowed interest. The result was a decree that the plaintiff have and receive from the administrator of Haller Nutt's estate the sum
of $22,143.30, with six per cent interest. That decree, upon
appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Mississippi.
Mr. A. S. Worthington for plaintiffs in error:
The final decree in the state court is based solely on the decision that the contract is not void under § 3477, Rev. Stat.;
this raised a Federal question and this court has jurisdiction.
§709, Rev. Stat.; Udell v. Davidson, 7 How. 769; Walworth v.
Kneeland, 15 How. 348; Daniel v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415; An-

NUTT v. KNUT.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

derson v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483; Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S.
67; McCormick v. Bank, 165 U. S. 538; Conde v. York, 168
U. S. 642; Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S. 410; Allen, v. Arguimbau,
198 U. S. 149.
The contract is void under § 3477, Rev. Stat. Trist v. Child,
21 Wall. 441; Spofford v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484; Hager v. Swayne,
149 U. S. 242; Ball v. Hasell, 161 U. S. 72; Owens v. Wilkinson, 20 App. D. C. 51; Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall. 452.
Even if not void under §3477, the contract was, at least as to
part of the services rendered, against the public policy of the
United States, and no recovery should be permitted. See cases
supra and Barry v. Capen, 151 Massachusetts, 99; McMullen
v. Hoffman, 174 U. S. 653. The evidence shows that the principal services rendered were personal solicitations of members
of both houses of Congress, for which no compensation should
be allowed. Peck v. Henrich, 6 App. D. C. 273, 284; S. C.
167 U. S. 624; Alexander v. Van Wyck, 4 App. D. C. 294.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. T. C. Catchings,
Mr. 0. W. Catchings and Mr. John Spalding Flannerywere on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The writ of error should be dismissed as there is no Federal
question. Masterton v. Herndon, 10 Wall. 416; Meagher v.
Manufacturing Co., 145 U. S. 608; Freibelmanv. Packard, 108
U. S. 14; Estis v. Trabue, 128 U. S. 225; Mason v. United
States, 136 U. S. 581; Hardee v. Wilson, 146 U. S. 179. No
Federal statute or treaty was drawn in question or any immunity claimed thereunder by defendant in error. Oxley Stove Co.
v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, 655; Mining Co. v. Turck, 150
U. S. 138; Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159 U. S. 408.
The contract was legal on its face and was not made illegal
even if in its execution something, such as lobbying, had been
done by defendant in error. Barry v. Capen, 151 Massachusetts, 99; Jerneganv. Jordan, 155 Massachusetts, 207.
No statute of the United States entitled plaintiff in error to
avail of defendant in error's services without compensation,
VOL. CC-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

and the state court having rendered the judgment this court
cannot interfere. Walworth v. Kneeland, 15 How. 348, and see
Leyson v. Davidson, 170 U. S. 36; Bailey v. United States, 109
U. S.432; Freedmen'sCo. v. Shepherd, 127 U. S. 495; Price v.
Forrest,173 U. S.410, 419. Even if the provisions for lien are
bad under the statute, that does not affect the rest of the contract. Gelpcke v. Dubuque, I Wall. 222. And if there is any
doubt as to the legality of the statute it must be resolved in
favor of the legality. Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 576.
M .JUSTICE HARLAN,after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question is one of the jurisdiction of this court. The
present plaintiffs in error based their defense in part upon section 3477 of the Revised Statutes,1 which declares absolutely
null and void certain transfers and assignments of claims against
the United States. They insisted that the contract sued on was
in violation of that statute; and that they and the estate of
Nutt were protected by its provisions against any judgment
whatever in favor of the plaintiff. In every substantial sense,
therefore, they asserted a right and immunity under a statute
of the United States, and such right and immunity was denied
to them by the Supreme Court of Mississippi. That court ex1",SEc. 3477. All transfers and assignments made of any claim upon the
United States, or of any part or share thereof, or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all
powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities for receiving payment of any
such claim, or of any part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void,
unless they are freely made and executed in the presence of at least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of
the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof. Such
transfers, assignments and powers of attorney, must recite the warrant for
payment, and must be acknowledged by the person making them, before an
officer having authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall be certified by the officer; and it must appear by the certificate that the officer, at
the time of the acknowledgment, read and fully explained the transfer, a3signment, or warrant of attorney to the person acknowledging the same."

NUTT v. KNUT.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pressly adjudged that the contract was not, on its face, in violation of the statutes of the United States, and could legally be
the basis of a valid claim against the Nutt estate. The case,
so far as our jurisdiction is concerned, is therefore within section 709 of the Revised Statutes, which authorizes this court to
reexamine the final judgment of the highest court of a State,
"where any title, right, privilege or immunity" is claimed under a statute of the United States, and the decision is against
such title, right, privilege or immunity specially set up or
claimed. A party who insists that a judgment cannot be rendered against him consistently with the statutes of the United
States may be fairly held, within the meaning of section 709,
to assert a right and immunity under such statutes, although
the statutes may not give the party himself a personal or affirmative right that could be enforced by direct suit against his
adversary. Such has been the view taken in many cases where
the authority of this court to review the final judgment of the
state courts was involved. Logan County Nat. Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 72; Railroads v. Richmond, 15 Wall. 3; Swope
v. Leffingwell, 105 U. S. 3; Anderson v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483,
486; McNulta v. Lochridge, 141 U. S. 327; Metropolitan Bank
v. Claggett, 141 U. S. 520; McCormick v. Market Bank, 165 U. S.
538, 546; CaliforniaBank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362. We perceive no sufficient reason to modify the views expressed in those
cases as to our jurisdiction. It is true there are some cases
which, it is contended, justify a contrary view. We will not
now stop to examine those cases narrowly and to declare
wherein they may be in conflict with the cases above cited.
Suffice it to say, that upon a careful reconsideration of the
whole subject, and after reviewing all the cases bearing upon
the precise question of jurisdiction now before us, we reaffirm
the views expressed in the above-cited cases, as demanded by
the statutes regulating the jurisdiction of this court.
We now come to the merits of the case as affected by section 3477 of the Revised Statutes. That section, as we have
seen, declares null and void all transfers and assignments of a

OCTOBER T]ERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

claim upon the United States, or of any part or share thereof,
or any interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and
whatever may be the consideration thereof, and all powers of
attorney, orders or other authorities for receiving payment of
any such claim, or of any part or share thereof, unless they are
freely made and executed after the allowance of the claim, the
ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant
for the payment thereof. This statute has been the subject of
examination in many cases. Spofford v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484;
United States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407; Erwin v. United States, 97
U. S. 392; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556; Ball v. Halsell,
161 U. S. 72; Freedmens Saving Co. v. Shepherd, 127 U. S. 494;
Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 567; St. Paul & Duluth 1. R. v.
United States, 112 U. S. 733; Bailey v. United States, 109 U. S.
432; Pricev. Forrest,173 U. S. 410.
If regard be had to the words as well as to the meaning of the
statute, as declared in former cases, it would seem clear that
the contract in question was, in some important particulars,
null and void upon its face. We have in mind that clause making the payment of the attorney's compensation a lien upon the
claim asserted against the Government and upon any draft,
money or evidence of indebtedness issued thereon. In giving
that lien from the outset, before the allowance of the claim and
before any services had been rendered by the attorney, the contract, in effect, gave him an interest or share in the claim itself
and in any evidence of indebtedness issued by the Government
on account of it. In effect or by its operation it transferred or
assigned to the attorney in advance of the allowance of the
claim such an interest as would secure the payment of the fee
stipulated to be paid. All this was contrary to the statute; for
its obvious purpose, in part, was to forbid any one who was a
stranger to the original transaction to come between the claimant and the Government, prior to the allowance of a claim, and
who, in asserting his own interest or share in the claim, pending
its examination, might embarrass the conduct of the business
on the part of the officers of the Government. We are of opin-

NUTT v. KNUT.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ion that the state court erred in holding the contract, on its
face, to be consistent with the statute.
It does not follow, however, that, for this error, the judgment
must be reversed. There is a provision in the contract of 1882
which can stand alone and which was not in violation of the
statute, namely, the one evidencing an agreement on the part
of Nutt's executrix to pay to the attorney for his services a sum
equal to 33- per cent of the amount allowed on the claim.
Wylie v. Cox, 15 How. 415; Wright v. Tebbitts, 91 U. S. 252;
Taylor v. Bemiss, 110 U. S. 42. Such an agreement did not
give the attorney any interest or share in the claim itself nor
any interest in the particular money paid over to the claimant
by the Government. It only established an agreed basis for
any settlement that might be made, after the allowance and
payment of the claim, as to the attorney's compensation. It
simply created a legal obligation upon the part of the estate,
which, if not recognized after the collection of the money, could
have been enforced by suit for the benefit of the attorney, without doing violence to the statute or to the public policy established by its provisions. The decree below may then be regarded as only giving effect to the agreement as to the basis
upon which the attorney's compensation was to be calculated.
It did not assume to give him any lien upon the claim or any
priority in the distribution of the money received by Nutt's
personal representative from the United States, nor upon any
other money in his hands. Indeed, no lien is asserted by the
plaintiff in his pleadings. While the original petition asserted
his right to be paid in accordance with the contract, the plaintiff claimed, if he could not be paid under the contract, that
he be compensated according to the reasonable value of his
services.
Much was said in argument as to the nature of the services
rendered by the plaintiff-the charge being that his services
were of the kind called lobby services for which, consistently
with public policy and public morals, no recovery could be had
in any court. Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 441; McMullen v. Hoff-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

man, 174 U. S. 639. We have seen that the state court of
original jurisdiction was of opinion the suit was for lobbying
services, and on that ground denied all relief. But the Supreme Court of Mississippi held that the record did not establish such a case, and we accept that view of the evidence in the
cause.
Finding in the record no error of law as to any question
which may be properly reviewed by this court, the judgment
of the state court is
Affirmed.
TuEn

CHIEF

JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE WiTE concur in the

result.

KNOXVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KNOXVILLE.
APPEAL FRO'I THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 123. Argued December 11, 12, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.

Where the bill properly sets forth the facts on which a corporation insists
that the agreement under which it erected, and is operating, its plant constituted a contract whereby it acquired exclusive rights for a given period
and that the obligation of that contract will be impaired by the threatened
action of the municipality in erecting its own waterworks, the case is one
arising under the Constitution of the United States and of which the proper
Circuit Court can take cognizance without regard to the citizenship of the

parties.
Only that which is granted in clear and explicit terms passes by a grant of
property, franchises or privileges in which the Government or the public
has an interest. Statutory grants of that character are to be construed
strictly in favor of the public; whatever is not unequivocally granted is
withheld; and nothing passes by implication.
Although the contract in this case between a waterworks company and a
municipality provided that no contract or privilege would be granted to
furnish water to anj other person or corporation, the city was not, in the

