RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sections of the act, relating to the maintenance, of rates, had
been violated, the injunction, by it issued, was not made as'
directly responsive to the commands of the statute on that
subject as we think it should have been. We, therefore, conclude that the injunction below should be modified and enlarged by perpetually enjoining the Chesapeake and Ohio from
taking less than the rates fixed in its published tariff of freight
rates, by means of dealing in the purchase and sale of coal.
And, as thus modified, the decree below is
Affirmed.

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREATE COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 137. Submitted December 12, 1905.-Decided February 19, 1906.
Where a trustee in bankruptcy seeks to recover in a state court what is
asserted to be an asset under the bankrupt law, the denial of the asserted
right is a denial of a right or title specially claimed under a law of the
United States, and presents a Federal question, reviewable in this court
by writ of error under section 709, Rev. Stat.
While a certificate of a court of last resort of a State may not import into
a record a Federal question not otherwise existing, such certificate serves
to elucidate whether such Federal question does exist.
While this court is bound by the fact3 found by a state court, where that
court does not find the facts but instructs a verdict on the ground that
the evidence justifies no other verdict, a question of law, reviewable by
this court, is raised as to whether the jury could have found otherwise
under any reasonable view of the evidence.
Where a bank fails and the clearing house having notice of such failure
returns all of the debit items to the other banks it cannot apply the credit
item to payment of claims of other banks against the insolvent bank;
under the provisions of the bankrupt act forbidding preferences, it is its
duty to pay those funds over to the trustee in bankruptcy.
See also Rector v. Commercial National Bank, post, p. 420.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. F. Pugh and Mr. Fred C. Rector, for plaintiff in error:
On the question of jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

The defendant in error's defense is that the money never
passed to the trustee of the bankrupt; that the clearing house
had the right to pay it to the defendant in error as a creditor
of the bankrupts. The plaintiff in error maintained that the
transfer and payment of the money to the defendant in error
by the clearing house amounted to a voidable preference under
the United States bankrupt law, and that he as a trustee was
entitled to have the moneys or the credit paid to him by the
clearing house. The state courts, by their decisions, denied
to the plaintiff in error as trustee his right to the moneys or
credits which he derived from the bankrupt law.
When the question in a state court is not whether if the
bankrupt had title, it would pass to his assignee under the
bankrupt act, but whether he had title at all, and the state
court decides that he had not, no question of which this court
can take jurisdiction under section 709 of the Revised Statutes
is presented. Scott v. Kelley, 22 Wall. 57.
But if the title of the bankrupt is not questioned, and if the
question is whether the property passed to his trustee under
the bankrupt act, then this court has jurisdiction. McKenna
v. Simpson, 129 U. S. 506; Cramer v. Wilson, 195 U. S. 408;
Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516, distinguished. See
also Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529; Dushane v. Beall, 161
U. S. 513.
It is not necessary that the petition should aver, in so many
words, or positively, that the right which the petitioner claimed
was derived from or under the bankrupt law; but it is sufficient, if it is clear, from the facts stated, by just and necessary
inference, that the question was made, and that the court
below must, in order to have arrived at the judgment pronounced by it, have come to the very decision of that question,
as indispensable to that judgment. Crowell v. Randall, 10
Pet. 368; Miller v. Nichols, 4 Wheat. 311; Wilson v. Blackbird
Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Hoyt v. Sheldon, 1 Black, 518;
Maxwell v. Newbold, 18 How. 515.
The motion of the defendant in error to withdraw the case

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

from the jury was an admission of all the facts which the evidence tended to prove, and there was presented only a question
of law to the court.
When a question decided by the state court is not merely
of the weight or sufficiency of the evidence to prove a fact, but
of the competency and legal effect of the evidence as bearing
upon a question of Federal law, the decision may be reviewed
by this court. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658; Mackay v.
Dillon, 4 How. 421.
The payment to the bank was a preference under the bankrupt law. Sections 60a, 60b, 57g. The fact that the payment
was made circuitously was immaterial. A preference was
nevertheless given and received. In re Lyon, 114 Fed. Rep.
327; Gibson v. Dobie, 5 Biss. 198; Crooks v. People's National
Bank, 46 App. Div. N. Y. 339.
The clearing house and its manager were agents of all the
banks which belonged to the clearing house. The clearing
house was created by a voluntary contract entered into between the banks that formed the same. It was a common
banker of the members of the association. Merchants' National Bank v. National Bank, 139 Massachusetts, 513. See
also Yardley v. Philler, 167 U. S. 344, 359.
The bankrupt statute required plaintiff in error to prove that
defendant in error had reasonable cause to believe that a
preference was intended. No more was required. Section 60b;
Loveland's Bankruptcy, pp. 468-471. The plaintiff in error
was not required to prove a "conscious participation" in the
bankrupt and his creditor in giving and receiving a preference.
Pirie v. Chicago Title & Trust Co., 182 U. S. 438.
The test of a voidable preference is whether or not a transfer or payment will have the effect to pay on one claim a larger
dividend out of the estate of the bankrupt than that estate
will pay on other claims. It is the effect which it has upon
the distribution of the estate of the bankrupt, and not its effect
upon the creditor that gives character to the preference. This
is the controlling purpose of the statute. In re Bashline, 109

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

200 U. &

Fed. Rep. 966; Kimball v. Rosenbaum Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 85;
Pirie v. Chicago Title & Trust Co., supra; Tool v. Martin,
13 Wall. 40.
Plaintiff in error could not have maintained an action against
the clearing house; the express provision or stipulation in the
articles of agreement entered into by the banks composing the
clearing house, which expressly provided that "in no case is
the association to be held responsible for any loss that may
occur," would have defeated such an action.
Mr. Talfourd P. Linn for defendant in error:
The record shows that no Federal question occurred to
counsel for plaintiff in error until after the decision of the
Supreme Court of Ohio.
Having submitted to the jurisdiction of the Ohio courts,
and having failed at any stage of the proceedings to indicate
to those courts that a Federal question was involved, or that
some right or title was claimed under a statute of the United
States, plaintiff in error cannot have the decision of the court
below reviewed.
In order to entitle him to relief, the record must affirmatively show that the Federal question was raised, or the right
or title claimed. Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180; Turner
v. Richardson, 180 U. S. 87; Yazoo &c. R. R. Co. v. Adams,
180 U. S. 1.
The question cannot be raised for the first time in the assignment of error. Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 133; Johnson v.
Insurance Co., 187 U. S. 491.
Even if the petition filed by plaintiff in error should be considered as if it had directly alleged a preference in violation
of §§ 60a and 60b, the facts disclosed by the record do not
bring the action within the jurisdiction of this court.
The court will not review on error mere questions of construction of Federal statutes, or applications of facts to those
statutes, when the validity of the act or statute is not involved, and where no right to proceed under the statute is

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

denied by the state court. Cameron v. United States, 146
U. S. 533; Choteau v. Marguerite, 12 Pet. 509; Cook Co. v.
Dock Co., 138 U. S. 635; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650;
Kinnard v. Nebraska, 186 U. S. 304.
This question was decided in the recent case of Thompson
v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516. To the same effect is Dresser v.
Wilson, 195 U. S. 409.

The decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio confirming the
lower courts, is final, and not subject to review by this court.
Kauf]man v. Treadway, 195 U. S. 271.
The record does not disclose any intention on the part of the
bank to obtain a preference.
An unlawful preference within the meaning of the bankruptcy act, must have been a preference obtained by the
creditor with full knowledge of the insolvency, and with a
deliberate intent to obtain the preference at the expense of
other creditors. Collier on Bankruptcy, 4th ed., 418 et seq.
MR. JUSTICE WWTmE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The firm of Reinhard & Company, composed of John G.
Reinhard and Henry A. Reinhard, carried on a banking business in Columbus, Ohio. On April 10, 1900, the firm made a
general assignment under the insolvent laws of Ohio. On the
following day a petition in involuntary bankruptcy under the
laws of the United States was filed against the firm, and on
August 10, 1900, it was adjudged bankrupt, and subsequently
Rector, the plaintiff in error, was appointed the trustee.
In a Court of Common Pleas of the State of Ohio the trustee
began this suit against the defendant in error to recover the
sum of S1,300, which it was subsequently agreed was only
$1,161.74. The petition alleged the adjudication in bankruptcy and the appointment of the trustee, and based his right
to recover upon the ground that on April 10, 1900, the firm had
transferred and assigned to the defendant bank, who had received the same the sum of money sued for, which it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

alleged was the property of Reinhard & Company, and, in
substance, the payment to the bank was alleged to constitute
a voidable preference.
The answer admitted the making of the general assignment,
the adjudication of the firm as an involuntary bankrupt, and
the appointment and qualification of the plaintiff as trustee.
The other averments of the petition were denied.
A trial was had to a jury. At the close of the evidence for
the plaintiff the court at the request of the defendant instructed
a verdict in its favor and judgment was entered dismissing the
action. The Circuit Court of Franklin County affirmed the
judgment, which was thereafter affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Ohio, without opinion. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ohio made and the court caused to be filed
and entered on its journal the certificate which is in the margin.'
1 On motion of the plaintiff in error, Fred C. Rector, trustee, this court
orders it to be certified and made part of the record in this case, and the
Honorable William T. Spear, Chief Justice of said Supreme Court, does now
certify, that in said cause, and on the hearing before this court, it was
claimed, contended and alleged by the said plaintiff in error that, on the
tenth day of April, A. D. 1900, Reinhard & Company, a partnership, by
deeds of its individual members committed an act of bankruptcy, to wit:
made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; that on the eleventh
day of April, A. D. 1900, a petition in bankruptcy was filed in the District
Court of the United States of the Southern District of Ohio, Eastern Division; that on the tenth day of August, A. D. 1900, said Reinhard & Company were, by said court, adjudged bankrupt, and on September 13, A. D.
1900, said plaintiff in error was appointed trustee thereof; that on the tenth
day of April, A. D. 1900, said Reinhard & Company, then being to the
knowledge of the defendant in error, insolvent, assigned and transferred to
the defendant in error, The City Deposit Bank Company, and that the said
last named company then and there received from said Reinhard & Company the sum of 81,161.74 of moneys belonging to said Reinhard & Company; that said assignment and transfer was an unlawful preference,
given to the said defendant in error, and violated the provisions of section 60a and section 60b of the United States bankrupt law; that it became
and was material to the said cause for this court to determine whether the
said sum of $1,161.74 was so assigned and transferred; whether it was an
unlawful preference; whether it was a violation of said section 60a and section 60b of the said bankrupt law; and whether the said plaintiff in error,
under said law, was entitled to have the said assignment and transfer set

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is contended that this court is without jurisdiction. The
argument upon which this proposition is rested is this: First. It
is said that whilst in the petition the right of recovery was based
upon the ground of fraudulent preference, it was not disclosed
therein whether the preference relied upon was in violation of
the bankrupt law of the United States or of the insolvent laws
of the State of Ohio, and therefore a Federal question was not
raised, as it was necessary to specially direct the attention of
the state court to such a question if it was intended to rely
upon it. Second. But even if a Federal question was referred
to in the petition, as the cause of action stated in nowise involved the construction or validity of any provision of the
bankrupt act, therefore there is no right to review under section 709 of the Revised Statutes.
Both these contentions might well be disposed of by saying
that the action was brought by a trustee appointed under the
bankrupt law of the United States, seeking to recover what was
asserted to be an asset of the bankrupt estate under that law.
This, therefore, presented a Federal question, and the denial
of the asserted right was a denial of a right or title specially
claimed under a law of the United States. Peck v. Jenness,
7 How. 612; Barton v. Geiler, 108 U. S. 161; Williams v. Heard
140 U. S. 529; Dushane v. Beall, 161 -U. S. 513; Stanley v.
Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255. Whether expressions, relied upon in
argument, contained in Cramer v. Wilson, 195 U. S. 408, 416,
must be taken as not in harmony with the previous cases, or
whether those expressions simply implied that where a right
claimed by a trustee in bankruptcy in its final aspect depended
aside and declared null and void, and to have a judgment and order for the
recovery of said money agamst said defendant in error; that the decision
of this court was adverse to the claims and contentions of the said plaintiff
in error, in this that said court decided that said assignment and transfer
of said sum of $1,161.74 was not an unlawful preference, in violation of the
said provisions of the bankrupt law, and that the said plaintiff in error was
not deprived of any right under said law, and was not entitled to have said
assignment and transfer set aside, and to recover the said sum of $1,161.74
from said defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

solely upon a state law, the courts of the United States would
follow the construction given by the highest courts of the State
to the state law, we do not deem it necessary now to say, for,
without reference to the doctrine announced in the previous
cases and without regard to the import of the case of Cramer
v. Wilson, the contention as to the want of jurisdiction is without merit. It is to be observed that the matter certified by
the Supreme Court of Ohio was made by that court a part of
the record, and, if it be considered as having the force of an
opinion of that court, would clearly establish the fact that the
court had considered and decided a Federal question, which,
apart from other considerations, would obviously give jurisdiction. But even if the action of the court be treated as not
an opinion, but a mere certificate, the same result would follow.
It is elementary that the certificate of a court of last resort of
a State may not import a Federal question into a record where
otherwise such question does not arise, it is equally elementary
that such a certificate may serve to elucidate the determination
whether a Federal question exists. Applying this principle,
we think as the suit was brought by a trustee in bankruptcy
in virtue of the power and authority conferred upon him by a
law of the United States, the certificate makes clear the fact,
if it were otherwise doubtful, that rights under the bankrupt
law were relied upon and passed upon below. And as, this
being true, the right of the trustee in bankruptcy to recover
thus depended upon a law of the United States, there was
clearly jurisdiction within the purview of section 709 of the
Revised Statutes. Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12.
Coming to the merits, we premise that if the court below
had found the facts we should be bound thereby. Here, however, as we have seen, the court below did not find the facts,
but instructed a verdict for the defendant, being of the opinion
that upon no view of the evidence was there a case made which
would have justified a verdict for the plaintiff. This raises a
question of law, which is this: Was the evidence such as would
have justified the jury, under any reasonable view thereof, to

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

find for the plaintiff; in other words, was there sufficient evidence to warrant the submission of the case to the jury? This
brings us to consider the evidence, in order to ascertain what
inferences, one way or the other, might reasonably have been
drawn by the jury therefrom.
Outside the testimony of the trustee, as to the insolvency of
the bankrupt estate, the only evidence introduced was the
testimony of John Field, manager of the Columbus Clearing
House Association. By that testimony the following facts
were disclosed:
Prior to the bankruptcy of Reinhard & Company that firm
carried on a banking business in the city of Columbus, Ohio,
and the firm, as well as the City Deposit Bank Company, were
members of the clearing house association. In order to accomplish the purpose of its e-dstence the clearing house association
was an agent, for a limited purpose, of the banks composing
the association, that is, its duty was to clear or balance daily
the claims of the respective banks, one against the other, resulting from the checks drawn upon and held by the different
members. The only source from which the association derived the means to carry on its operations was from assessments upon the members, which were made solely for the purpose of paying rent, salaries, and similar expenditures. To
effect the clearings each member of the association, on banking
days, sent to the clearing house, at a specified hour, the checks
held by it against other banks. The checks sent by each
member were considered as remaining the property of the
member, the association being simply an agent for collection.
Where the sum of the checks presented by one bank exceeded
the sum of the checks against it presented by other members
of the association, that bank had, of course, a credit balance.
Where the checks presented by a particular bank against other
banks were less than the sum of the checks against it presented
by other banks, that bank had a debit balance. Where a bank
was entitled to a credit or payment corresponding to the excess
which the sum of the checks presented by it exceeded the sum

OCTOBER TERMI, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

of the checks against it, the clearing house paid that bank the
difference by drawing its check upon one or more of the debtor
banks; and each member constituted the manager of the association its agent to draw a check or checks upon such member
for any balance found to be due by that member.
In making the clearings on April 9, 1900, the day before
the assignment of Reinhard & Company, the checks presented
against that firm in the clearings exceeded the checks presented
by it against other banks by S1,161.74, that is, Reinhard &
Company, as a result of the clearing, was indebted in that
amount. On the same day the City Deposit Bank presented
in the clearings checks drawn upon other banks which exceeded
by $10,245.63 the amount of the checks presented against that
bank; in other words, as a result of the clearings it was entitled
to receive the amount of money just stated. In payment of
the balance the clearing house gave to the Pity Deposit Bank
a check on Reinhard & Company for the sum due by that firm,
viz., $1,161.74, and a check upon the Capital City Bank for
$9,083.89. There was nothing in the evidence to show upon
what bank the checks were drawn which were held by the
City Deposit Bank on April 9, and which it presented for clearing on that day, nor was there anything in the evidence to
show upon what banks the checks were drawn which were
presented by Reinhard & Company for clearing on the same
day. The check of the clearing house on Reinhard & Company
for the balance due by that firm in the clearings, and which,
as we have said, was given to the City Deposit Bank, was not
on that day presented by the City Deposit Bank to Reinhard
& Company for payment. On the contrary, the City Deposit
Bank held the clearing house check until the next day. When
on the morning of the tenth of April the City Deposit Bank
presented its checks for clearing, it treated the clearing house
check on Reinhard & Company as being entitled to participate
in the clearing and included it in the checks presented for that
purpose.
On the morning of April 10 the checks as presented to the

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

clearing house by the City Deposit Bank, including the clearing house check, exceeded the amount of the checks presented
against it by other banks in the sum of $4,875.98; and the
clearing house gave to the City Deposit Bank its check on the
Deshler National Bank for that sum. On that day the checks
presented by Reinhard & Company against other banks aggregated 82,132.19, whilst the checks against it presented by other
banks amounted to $6,369.30, leaving a balance due by Reinhard & Company in the clearing of $4,237.11. Shortly after
the clearing was made it developed that Reinhard & Company
had made a general assignment for the benefit of their creditors
and had suspended payment, and as a result, of course, it was
certain that the firm of Reinhard & Company would not meet
its obligations. The rules of the clearing house had provided
for such a contingency as follows:
"In case of failure to respond promptly to the checks of the
manager, on the part of any member of the association, they
shall be immediately returned to the manager, who shall call
upon the other banks or bankers to make up the sum for which
payment has been refused in proportion to the amount of
checks upon the defaulting member sent into the clearing house
at the preceding settlement, which sums so furnished or contributed shall constitute claims in the hands of the responding
members respectively against the defaulting members, and it
is hereby agreed that the checks received from the clearing
house by the defaulting members shall be delivered, if required,
to the member owning the same ithout mutilation; the agency
of the clearing house in the matter, it is understood, is only as
a trustee, and in no case is the association to be held responsible
for any loss that may occur."
All the checks drawn against Reinhard & Company and
which figured in the morning settlement were returned to the
clearing house with the information that Reinhard & Company
had failed. The clearing house thereupon revised the previous
settlements by deducting, wherever appearing, the credits
which had been given for checks drawn on Reinhard & Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

pany, which had been presented by other banks, and changed
the balances to correspond with such deductions, and the dishonored checks were returned to the respective banks. Having
thus returned all the checks which had been presented against
Reinhard & Company on that morning, the entire sum which
had been collected on the checks sent to the clearing house by
Reinhard & Company on the same morning for the purpose of
the clearing, viz., $2,132.19, remained in the hands of the
clearing house without any debit against it. Being thus in
possession of the sum referred to, the manager testified that
he paid $970.45 thereof to the Commercial Bank and the balance of $1,161.74 to the City Deposit Bank. With a view of
making the payment to the last named bank, the manager
went to the office of the City Deposit Bank. Conflicting versions were given of what took place at the interview, which
was had with an officer of the City Deposit Bank named Jennings. The manager at first testified:
"I told him that the Reinhards had failed, and that his check
had been returned, and that I had a balance due Reinhard &
Company, and that I would substitute a check on the Capital
City Bank for this check on Reinhard, which had been returned. Mr. Jennings said that he would-I think he said
he would telephone Mr. Outhwaite, and if it was all right he
would return my check, the Reinhard check...."
Subsequently, referring to checks which the witness had
carried to the City Deposit Bank to give to that bank in exchange for the prior check of $4,875.98, he said:
"It runs in my mind

.

.

.

that I told him that I wanted

to substitute those, and that he asked me what for, and I told
him not to ask any questions-I am not sure about thatthat I wanted to substitute those checks."
Certain it is, however, that the manager took up the checks
for $4,875.98 drawn on the Deshler Bank, which had been given
to the City Deposit Bank in discharge of the credit balance in
its favor as the result of the previous clearing of that day, and
substituted for it a check for $3,714.24, drawn on the Deshler

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

National Bank, and in addition gave a check drawn on the
Capital City Bank for $1,161.74, the exact amount of the
clearing house check which had been thrown out of the
clearings.
Analyzing these facts for the purpose of arriving at the inferences which may reasonably be deduced from them, this
plainly results: When on the morning of April 10, 1900, as
the result of the failure of Reinhard & Company, the clearings
of that day required revision, the clearing house having received back the checks drawn on Reinhard & Company which
it had cleared for its members that morning, made new settlements with those members based upon deductions from the
original settlements of the sum of the checks which had been
put in the clearings on that morning and were afterwards
dishonored. The result of each new settlement was that the
amount due to the member was reduced or the indebtedness
shown on the original settlement was increased, according as
by the original settlement the member was a creditor of or a
debtor in the clearing; and, as a necessary consequence of the
new settlements having eliminated all the debits against Reinhard & Company, the clearing house held, as the property of
that firm, the proceeds of the checks on other banks which that
finn had sent for clearing on that morning.
The statements of the manager as to what was done with
the clearing house check which had been put in the clearings
by the City Deposit Bank are not perfectly clear. In one aspect
he returned that check to the City Deposit Bank as he had
returned the other dishonored checks, and then gave to the
City Deposit Bank a check for the amount due it on the revision
of the clearing ($3,714.24), and also delivered a check for
$1,161.74, to take up the dishonored clearing house check. In
another aspect the same result was brought about without any
return of the dishonored check. The mere form of the transaction, however, does not affect its nature. The payment out
of tlis fund by the manager, in part to the City Deposit Bank
and in part to another bank, therefore amounted simply to
voL. cc-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

this, that in the revision of the clearings, although the clearing
house eliminated, and returned the checks which had been
debited against Reinhard & Company, and were subsequently
dishonored, it retained and appropriated the credits arising
from the checks put in by Reinhard &Company for the purpose
of the clearing of the morning. Having thus appropriated those
credits, it used them pro tanto to pay the clearing house check
on Reinhard & Company held by the City Deposit Bank as the
result of the clearings of the previous day. But as the clearing
house had received the checks from Reinhard & Company on
the morning of April 10, 1900, for the purpose of making the
clearing on that day, such agent was without power, after returning to the banks which had presented the same, the checks
debited against the firm, to hold on to the credits of Reinhard
& Company, and treat them as subject to be appropriated.
Indeed when the inferences from the proof are thus accurately
fixed it is apparent that the transaction was in substance like
the one which was held by this court in Yardley v. Philler,167
U. S. 344, to be a misappropriation and besides to constitute
a fraudulent preference within the meaning of the National
Banking Act.
The result, however, of the proof would not be different,
even if it be conceded that under the rule, as to clearings, which
we have quoted, the clearing house would have had the power,
upon the default of one of its members, simply to call upon the
other members to pay in a pro rata proportion of the amount
of the check or checks which had been drawn upon the defaulting member, and to treat the credit standing in the clearing in favor of the defaulting member as belonging proportionately to the contributing members. We say this because even
under such hypothesis the clearing house check held by the
City Deposit Bank would not have been entitled to so participate. That check was the result of the clearings of the previous
day, and, under the hypothesis as to the meaning of the rule
in which we have indulged, the holder was only entitled to
obtain payment, pro rata, from those who had presented checks

RECTOR v. CITY DEPOSIT BANK.
200 U. S.

Opinioa of the Court.

against Reinhard & Company in the clearing wherein the
check was given.
Was the receipt and appropriation of the $1,161.74 by the
City Deposit Bank a preference within the bankruptcy law
is, then, the question. It is said that it was not, because to
constitute a preference under that law the transfer or payment
must have been the act of the bankrupt. Westenn Tie &
Timber Co. v. Brown, 196 U. S. 502. Here it is insisted that
it cannot be so held, because there was nothing in the proof
warranting the implication that the firm authorized or ratified
the misappropriation or that the clearing house was the agent
of the firm when it made such misappropriation. The latter
proposition rests on the contention that whatever agency the
association possessed in virtue of its authority to make clearings was revoked by the fact of the voluntary assignment made
by Reinhard & Company before the money was appropriated
to the City Deposit Bank. Whilst it may be conceded that
these propositions are well founded, it does not follow that the
inferences deducible from the evidence did not warrant the
conclusion that under the bankrupt law of the United States
there was a duty on the part of the City Deposit Bank to pay
over to the trustee the sum received by it of the funds of Reinhard & Company deposited on April 10, 1900, with the clearing
house for the purposes of the clearing of that date. From the
inferences which we have stated were properly deducible from
the evidence, it follows that the jury would have been amply
justified in finding that the clearing house had made a wrongful disposition of a trust fund in favor of the City Deposit Bank,
which institution had notice, either actual or constructive,
of the misappropriation. Western Tie & Timber Co. v. Brown,
supra.
We interpret the certificate of the Supreme Court of Ohio
as establishing that that court did not rest its affirmance of
the judgment rendered by the trial court against the trustees
upon the mere technical ground that the petition counted upon
a voidable preference, and there could not be a recovery unless

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

200 U. S.

the facts constituted such preference, even although the evidence justified the inference that the money which the City
Deposit Bank received from the clearing house association,
under the circumstances we have stated, was the property of
Reinhard & Company, which the bank by operation of the
bankrupt law was obliged to account for to the bankrupt esstate. We so conclude, because the Supreme Court of Ohio
not only certified that its decision "was adverse to the claims
and contentions of the said plaintiffs in error, in this, that said
court decided that said assignment and transfer of said sum
of $1,161.74 was not an unlfaful preference, in violation of the
said provisions of the bankrupt law," but in addition, moreover, certified that the case was decided against the trustees,
because under the facts proved the trustee "was not deprived
of any right under said (bankrupt) law, and was not entitled
to have said assignment and transfer set aside, and to recover
the said sum of $1,161.74 from said defendant in error."
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio must be reversed
and the cause be remanded to that court for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion.

RECTOR v. COMIERCIAL NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 138. Submitted December 12, 1905.-Decided February 19, 1906.
Rector v. City Deposit Ba k, ante, p. 405, followed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. F. Pugh and Mr. Fred C. Rector for plaintiff in error.
Mr. F. F. D. Albery for defendant in error.

