CINCINNATI & TEXAS PACIFIC RY. v. BOHON. 221
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND TEXAS PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY v. BOHON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 177. Argued December 15, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.

Alabama Southern Railway v. Thompson, ante, p. 206, followed to effect
that a railroad corporation, sued jointly with its servant for negligence
of the latter for which the former is responsible, may not remove the
case into the Federal court unless diversity of citizenship also exists
as to the other defendants.
A State has the right by its constitution and laws to regulate actions for
negligence; and where it provides, as has been done by ยง 241 of the constitution and ยง 6 of the statutes of Kentucky, that a plaintiff may proceed
jointly or severally against those liable for the injury, nothing in the
Federal removal statute converts such an action into a separable controversy for the purposes of removal, because of the presence of a nonresident defendant therein properly joined under the law of the State
wherein it is conducting operations and is duly served with process.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Galvin and Mr. Edward Colston for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. John W. Yerkes and Mr. Robert Hardingfor defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was considered by this court at the same time with
the Alabama Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, ante, p. 206,

just decided, and we need not repeat the discussion therein
had as to the construction of the removal act of 1887, under
the decisions of this court. This case has an additional feature
which we shall proceed to notice. The action was brought by

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

the defendant in error as administrator of Edward Cook, deceased. The petition charged that the plaintiff's intestate was
engaged in the yards as a brakeman and switchman, and was
uncoupling and giving attention to the cars of the defendant
company, which cars and an engine attached thereto were in
charge of the defendant Milligan as engineer engaged in operating, managing and controlling the same for the defendant
company, and while plaintiff's intestate was thus engaged the
defendant company and the defendant Milligan caught and
crushed said Cook's body between the cars of the train, by
and through the gross negligence of Milligan and of defendant
company, in the operation, management and control of the
engine and train; that the injuries to the plaintiff resulted in
his death a few minutes thereafter, and when so caught and
crushed said Cook was engaged in discharging his duties as
brakeman to the defendant company; the death of said Cook
was caused as'aforesaid by the gross negligence and carelessness
of defendant company and Milligan. The railroad company
filed its petition in the state court for the removal of the cause
to the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Kentucky, upon the ground that there was a separable controversy between the petitioner, a resident and citizen of Ohio,
and the plaintiff below, who was a citizen and resident of Kentucky. The Circuit Court of Mercer County refused to remove
the case, and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the
plaintiff below. Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, the judgment was reversed .for errors occurring at the
trial. At a second trial the verdict and judgment were rendered for the plaintiff below, which was again reversed and
remanded. On the third trial the verdict and judgment were
again rendered for the plaintiff below, which judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The sole question argued here is as to the correctness of the state court in
refusing to order the removal of the cause, which judgment
was affirmed by the Kentucky Court of Appeals.
The action for death by negligence is regulated by the Ken-

CINCINNATI & TEXAS PACIFIC RY. v. BOHON. 223
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tucky constitution and statutes. Section 241 of the constitution provides:
"Whenever the death of a person shall result from an injury
inflicted by negligence, or wrongful act, then, in every such
case, damages may be recovered for such death from the corporations and persons so causing the same.
Section 6 of the Kentucky statutes reads as follows:
"Whenever the death of a person shall result from an injury
inflicted by negligence, or wrongful act, then, in every such
case, damages may be recovered for such death from the person
or persons, company or companies, corporation or corporations,
their agents or servants, causing the same, and when the act
is willful and the negligence is gross, punitive damages may
be recovered, and the action to recover such damages shall
be prosecuted by the personal representative of the deceased. . .
This statute undertakes to give an action for negligence
against the companies or corporations responsible therefor and
their agents or servants causing the same. The statute has
been before the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and in the case
of Winston's Administrator v. Illinois CentralRailroad Co., III
Kentucky, 954, 957, that court said of the state constitution
and this statute:
"The constitution and statutes of this State, as construed by
the repeated adjudications of this court, make the railroad
company liable for the acts of the agents and servants in charge
of its trains. If a servant is guilty of such negligence, while
acting for his master as will make the master responsible, then
in such a case the servant is personally and equally responsible
with the master for the damages resulting from the negligent
act. The mere fact that the master may be responsible for
the wrongful act of the servant does not relieve the servant
from a joint liability with the master for the wrongful act
which produced the injury and damage."
In the case under consideration, in the opinion of the court
upon the question of right of removal, while it expressed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

view that the weight of authority was in favor of the right to
join the master and servant in actions for negligence, it reiterates its former view of the Kentucky statutes, citing Chesapeake & Ohio RailroadCo. v. Dixon's Adninistrator, 104 Kentucky, 608, and the Winston case, above referred to, and quoted
from that case, with approval:
"By the terms of this section, where death results from the
negligent act, a recovery may be had therefor against the person or persons, company or companies, corporation or corporations, their agents or servants, causing the same.

.

.

.

The

plaintiff has a right to proceed severally or jointly against
those who are liable for the injury inflicted resulting in death."
We then have a case in which the extent of the right to recover damages for negligence is prescribed by te constitution
and statutes of the State of Kentucky, and which the courts of
that State have construed to give a joint cause of action against
the corporation and its agents or servants causing the same.
In a recent case this court had occasion to deal with the question of removal under the separable controversy clause, Southern Railway Co. v. Carson, 194 U. S. 136, on a writ of error to
the Supreme Court of South Carolina. An action had been
jointly brought in the state court against the Southern Railway
Company, a corporation of Virginia, and Arwood, conductor,
and Miller, the engineer, residents of Greenville County, South
Carolina, charging the joint and concurrent negligence of the
servant and the company, because of a defective coupler and
the careless management of the train, and the railroad company claimed to have been deprived of the right of removal by
the allegation of a joint and concurrent tort, unless the state
court would charge that no recovery could be had unless a
joint liability was shown, which it refused to do. After commenting upon the action, the Chief Justice, who delivered the
opinion of the court, stated that the right of removal depends
upon the act of Congress, that the company upon the face of
the pleadings did not come within the act, and had made no
effort to assert this right, and citing the passage in Powers v.

CINCINNATI & TEXAS PACIFIC RY. v. BOHON. 225
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co., 169 U. S. 92, quoted in the
Alabama Great Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, supra,
said:
"The view thus expressed was reiterated in Chesapeake &
Ohio Railway Co. v. Dixon, 179 U. &. 131, where the subject
Reference was there
was much considered and cases cited.
the identification
held
courts
have
many
fact
that
to
the
made
of master and servant to be so complete that the liability of
both may be enforced in the same action. And such is the
law in South Carolina. Schumpert v. Southern Railway Co., 65
S. Car. 332. In that case it was held that, under the state Code
of Civil Procedure, in actions ex delicto, acts of negligence and
willful tort might be commingled in one statement as causes of
injury; that master and servant are jointly liable as joint tort
feasors for the tort of the servant committed within the scope
of his employment and while in the master's service; that the
objection that if master and servant were made jointly liable
for the negligence of the latter the master could not call on the
servant for contribution, was without merit, as the rule was,
as laid down by Mr. Cooley (Torts, page 145), that: 'As between the company and its servant, the latter alone is the
wrongdoer, and in calling upon him for indemnity, the company bases no claim upon its own misfeasance or default, but
upon that of the servant himself.' And see Gardnerv. Railway
Co., 65 S. Car. 341. In Rucker v. Smoke, 37 S. Car. 377, and
Skipper v. Clifton Mfg. Co., 58 S. Car. 143, it was decided that
in actions such as this exemplary damages may be recovered.
The suggestion that the State deprived the company of its
property by the rulings of the Supreme Court calls for no remark."
While the case did not show an attempt to remove, the discussion of the subject by the Chief Justice strongly intimates
that if the action was properly joint in the forum in which it
was being prosecuted it could not be removed as a separable
controversy under the act of Congress. We have under consideration an action for tort which by the constitution and
VOL. cc-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

laws of the State, as interpreted by the highest court in the
State, gives a joint remedy against master and servant to recover for negligent injuries. This court has repeatedly held
that a separable controversy must be shown upon the face of
the petition or declaration, and that the defendant has no
right to say that an action shall be several which the plaintiff
elects to make joint. (See cases cited in Alabama Great Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, supra.) A State has an unquestionable right by its constitution and laws to regulate actions
for negligence, and where it has provided that the plaintiff in
such cases may proceed jointly or severally against those liable
for the injury, and the plaintiff in due course of law and in
good faith has filed a petition electing to sue for a joint recovery given by the laws of the State, we know of nothing in
the Federal removal statute which will convert such action into
a separable controversy for the purpose of removal, because
of the presence of a non-resident defendant therein properly
joined in the action under the constitution and laws of the
State wherein it is conducting its operations and is duly
served with process.
Judgment affirmed.

ARMOUR PACKING COMPANY v. LACY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 53.

Argued November 8, 1905.-Decided Jauuary 8, 1906.

The construction, by the highest court of a State, that a license tax imposed on meat packing houses was exacted from a foreign corporation
doing both interstate and domestic business only by virtue of the latter,
is not open to review in this court.
The Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to prevent a State from
adjusting its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable ways, or

