FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Syllabus.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF OTTAWA v. CONVERSE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 176. Argued January 25, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.
A Minnesota manufacturing corporation having failed, the creditors, a
national bank among them, organized a new corporation under the laws
of Minnesota for the purchase of the capital stock, evidences of indebtedness and assets of the corporation and for the manufacture of the same
articles that it had manufactured. The bank and other creditors exchanged their claims againkt the old corporation for stock in the new
corporation. After the incorporation, and prior to the failure, of the
new corporation the laws of 'rmnesota imposing double liability on
stockholders of certain corporations were amended and a new method
of procedure for enforcing them was provided. Stockholders of corporations organized exclusively for manufacturing purposes are not subject to double liability. Proceedings having been taken under the statute
to enforce the double liability of the stockholders, a receiver was appointed, an assessment determined, and a judgment for the pro rata
amount obtained against the national bank, which denied liability, claiming that the corporation was organized for manufacturing purposes only,
and therefore the stockholders were exempt from double liability; that the
provisions in the statute providing for enforcing double liability were unconstitutional under the impairment of obligation clause of the Federal
Constitution; and that the original taking of the stock by it as a national
bank was ultra ilres. Held, that:
Under the construction given by the Supreme Court of Minnesota to its
articles of association the corporation was organized to engage in a purely
speculative business in buying and selling the stock and assets of another
corporation with power, but without any obligation, to engage independently in a manufacturing business and did not fall within the class
of corporations whose stockholders were exempted from liability.
A national bank has no power to engage in or promote a purely speculative
business or to take stock in a corporation organized for that purpose,
nor can the power to take such stock as a means of protecting itself from
loss on preexisting indebtedness be inferred from the right to accept it as
security for a present loan.
Notwithstanding its subscription, a national bank, taking stock in a corporation organized for purely speculative purposes, may plead its want of
authority so to do as a defense to the claim of a receiver of such corporation for the double liability imposed by a state statute on the stockholders thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

FoR brevity, the plaintiff in error will be hereafter referred to as the bank and the defendant in error as the
receiver.
The receiver commenced this action against the bank in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Illinois. The object of the action was to recover from the
bank, as the owner of 274 shares of preferred stock in the
Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Company, the amount of
an assessment of eighteen dollars per share, levied upon said
stock for the payment of the debts of the thresher company.
A demurrer to an amended declaration having been overruled,
and the bank electing not to plead further, judgment was entered for the receiver, and, on account of constitutional questions raised by the demurrer, the case was brought directly
to this court.
The averments of the amended declaration may be summarized as follows: In May, 1884, the Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company was a corporation, engaged in the
manufacturing business at Stillwater, Minnesota. At the date
mentioned the car company owed a large amount of debt,
which it was unable to pay, among which was a sum due to the
bank for money lent. In that month a receiver was appointed
for the car company by a court of the State of Minnesota having jurisdiction. Some time afterwards, in November, 1884,
the bank with other creditors, and some of the stockholders of
the car company, organized under the laws of Minnesota a
new corporation, styled the Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing
Company. The articles of incorporation of the new company
provided "that the objects for which said corporation was
formed were the purchase of the capital stock, evidences of
indebtedness issued by and the assets of the Northwestern
Manufacturing and Car Company, a corporation existing under
the laws of the State of Minnesota, or any portion of said capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or assets, and the manufacture and sale of steam engines, of all kinds, farm implements and machinery of all kinds, and the manufacture and

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

sale of all articles, implements and machinery of which wood
and iron or either of them form the principal component parts,
and the manufacture of the materials therein used."
The thresher company exchanged its preferred stock at par
for the debts of the car company and issued common stock
in exchange for the preferred stock of the car company. Subsequently at a judicial sale the new company acquired all the
assets of the car company and paid for the same with the claims
which it had acquired for issuing its common stock as above
stated. The stock held by the bank upon which the assessment
was sought to be enforced was alleged to have been acquired
by the bank in the manner above stated, that is, by an exchange of its claim against the car company for the preferred
stock of the new corporation. The declaration alleged that
at the time of the acquisition of the stock by the bank, as above
stated, under the constitution and laws of Hinnesota, there
was a double liability imposed upon the stockholders to
pay the debts of the corporation in the event of its insolvency.
After the organization of the thresher company and the
purchase of the assets of the car company, as above stated,
the thresher company carried on the manufacturing business
authorized by its charter. In 1901 it became insolvent. A
creditor having sued and obtained judgment, and an execution having been issued and returned unsatisfied, the creditor
procured, under the provisions of chapter 76 of the General
Statutes of Minnesota and the amendments thereto, the appointment of a receiver of the property of the thresher company, who duly qualified and entered upon the discharge of his
duties. In the proceeding in which the receiver was appointed
creditors exhibited claims and demands against the thresher
company, aggregating S443,752.17, but no property or assets
of the corporation existed available to pay this indebtedness
or any portion thereof.
Thereafter, upon petition of the receiver, pursuant to the
provisions of chapter 272 of the General Laws of Minnesota

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

for 1899, copied in the margin,1 steps were taken to provide a
fund for the payment of the debts of the corporation, by enforcing contribution from its stockholders upon the double
liability alleged to result from the ownership of its stock. The
bank did not appear in the proceeding.
1 General Laws of Minnesota for 1899.
Chapter 272.
"An act to provide for the better enforcement of the liability of stockholders
of corporations.
"SEc. 1. Whenever any corporation created or existing by or under the
laws of the State of Minnesota, whose stockholders or any of them are liable
to it or to its creditors, or for the benefit of its creditors, upon or on account
of any liability for or upon or growing out of, or in respect to the stock or
shares at any time held or owned by such stockholders, respectively, whether
under or by virtue of the constitution and laws of said State of Minnesota,
or any statute of said State, or otherwise, has heretofore made, or shall
hereafter make an assignment for the benefit of its creditors under the insolvency laws of this State; or whenever a receiver for any such corporation
has heretofore been or shall hereafter be appointed by any District Court
of this State, whether under or pursuant to any of the provisions of chapter
seventy-six (76) of the General Statutes of eighteen hundred and ninetyfour (1894) of Minnesota and the acts amendatory thereof, or under or
pursuant to any other statute of this State or under the general equity
powers and practice of such court; the District Court appointing such receiver or having jurisdiction of the matter of said assignment may proceed
as in this act provided.
"SEc. 2. Under the petition of the assignee or the receiver of any such
corporation, or of any creditor of such corporation who has filed his claim
in such assignment or receivership proceedings, the said District Court shall
by order appoint a time for hearing not less than thirty (30) nor more than
sixty (60) days from the time of filing said petition with the clerk of said
court, and shall direct such notice of such hearing to be given by the party
presenting said petition, by publication or otherwise, as the court in its
discretion may deem proper; but if said petition be filed by a creditor, other
than the assignee or receiver of said corporation, the court shall direct that
notice of such hearing be personally served on such assignee or receiver.
"SEc. 3. At such hearing the court shall consider such proofs by affidavit
or otherwise as may then be offered by the assignee or receiver, or by any
creditor or officer or stockholder of said corporation who may appear in
person or by attorney, as to the probable indebtedness of said corporation
and the expenses of said assignment or receivership, and the probable
amount of assets available for the payment of such indebtedness and ex-

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

After compliance with the requirements of the act of 1899
the court made an assessment of eighteen dollars upon each
of the shares of the stock of the thresher company, and the
receiver was authorized and directed, in the event of the failure
penses; and also as to what parties are or may be liable as stockholders o,
said corporation and the nature and extent of such liability. And if it
appear to the satisfaction of the court that the ordinary assets of said corporation, or such amount as may be realized therefrom within a reasonable
time, will probably be insufficient to pay and discharge in full and without
delay its indebtedness and the expenses of such assignment or receivership,
and that it is necessary or proper that resort be had to such liability of its
stockholders: the said court shall thereupon by order direct and levy a
ratable assessment upon all parties liable as stockholders or upon or on
accomt of any stock or shares of said corporation, for such amount, proportion or percentage of the liability upon or on account of each share of said
stock as the court in its discretion may deem proper (taking into account
the probable solvency or insolvency of stockholders and the probable expenses of collecting the assessment); and shall direct the payment of the
amount so assessed against each share of said stock to the assignee or receiver within such time thereafter as said court may specify in said order.
"SEc. 4. Said order shall direct the assignee or receiver to proceed to
collect the amount so assessed against each share of said stock from the
parties liable therefor; and shall direct and authorize said assignee or receiver, in ease of the failure of any party liable upon or on account of any
share or shares of said stock to so pay the amount so assessed against the
same within the time specified in said order, to prosecute action against
each and every such party so failing to pay the same, wherever such party
may be found, whether in this State or elsewhere.
"Snoc, 5. Said order and the assessment thereby levied shad be conclusive
upon and against all parties liable upon or on account of any stock or shares
of said corporation, whether appearing or represented at said hearing or
having notice thereof or not, as to all matters relating to the amount of
and the propriety of and necessity for the said assessment. This provision
shall also apply to any subsequent assessment levied by said court as hereinafter provided.
"SEC. 6. It shall be the duty of such assignee or receiver to, and he may,
immediately after the expiration of the time specified in said order for the
payment of the amount to be assessed by the parties liable therefor, institute
and maintain an action or actions against any and every party liable upon
or on account of any share or shares of such stock who has failed to pay the
amount so o-seised against the same, for the amount for which such party
is so liable. Said actions may be maintained against each stockholder,
severally, in this State or in any other State or country where such stockholder, or any property subject to attachment, garnishment, or other process

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

of a stockholder to pay, after due notice by mail, "to forthwith institute and prosecute such action or actions or other
proceedings against such person, persons, corporation or party
liable in any court having jurisdiction, whether in this State or
elsewhere, which said receiver may deem necessary or proper
for the recovery of the amount due from such person, persons,
corporation or party under the terms of this order." After
alleging the default of the bank to pay the assessment, the
amended declaration prayed for a judgment against the bank
for the sum of the assessment, that is, eighteen dollars per
share on the 274 shares of stock of the thresher company,
which stood on the books of that company in the name of the
bank.
As stated at the outset, the bank demurred to the amended
declaration, and, on the demurrer being overruled, stood upon
the demurrer and judgment was entered against it as prayed
for. The grounds upon which the amended declaration was
demurred to were as follows:
"1. It does not state fac'- sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against the defendant.
"2. It does not show that plaintiff has legal capacity to
institute and maintain the present action.

"3. It shows that said supposed Laws of Minnesota for
1899 are in contravention of clause 1 of section 10 of article I
of the Constitution of the United States.
"4. It shows that said supposed Laws of Minnesota for
in an action against such stockholder, may be found. But if said assignee
or receiver shall in good faith believe any stockholder so liable to be insolvent, or that the expense of prosecuting such action against such stockholder will be so great that it will be of disadvantage to the estate and the
interest of creditors to prosecute the same, said assignee or receiver shall so
report to said court; and shall not be required to institute or prosecute any
such action unless specifically directed so to do by said court. And in such
case said court shall not require said receiver to institute or maintain such
action unless said court shall have reasonable cause to believe that the
result of such action will be of advantage to the estate and creditors of said
corporation; except as hereinafter provided."

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

1899 are in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States.
"5. It shows that said supposed Laws of Minnesota for
1899, being 'An act to provide for the better enforcement of
the liability of stockholders of corporations,' are in contravention of the Constitution of the United States.
"6. It shows that said supposed Laws of Minnesota for
1899 unjustly discriminate against non-resident stockholders
and are such as will not be enforced in this jurisdiction.
"7. It shows that the supposed order of the court levied
an assessment on stockholders that is excessive and beyond
reason.
"8. It does not show that the supposed corporate indebtedness is contractual or that it has been judicially determined
as against this defendant.
"9. It does not show that all the necessary steps prescribed
by the supposed laws of Minnesota have been taken.
"10. It shows, as a basis of liability, supposed acts of the
defendant which are ultra vires and void under the national
bank act.
"11. It states conclusions of the pleader instead of facts.
"12. It does not allege a case within the jurisdiction of this
court.
"13. It is, in other respects, uncertain, informal and insufficient."
Mr. Lester H. Strawn and Mr. Lawrence Arnold Tanzer for
plaintiff in error:
On the question of the double liability of the stockholders
in the thresher company:
When it appears from the articles of association that the
real and only purpose of the organization of the corporation
is the carrying on of a manufacturing or mechanical business,
and such other business as may be incidental thereto, the shareholders are exempt from the constitutional and statutory additional liability. Hastings Malting Co. v. Iron Range Brewing

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

200 U. S.

Co., 65 Minnesota, 28; Cowling v. Zenith Iron Co., 65 Minnesota, 263; Cuyler v. City Power Co., 74 Minnesota, 22; Senour
Mfg. Co. v. Church Paint Co., 81 Minnesota, 294.
The acts of the bank set out as a basis of liability were ultra
vires and void. The power of national banks to deal in stocks
is not conferred and therefore prohibited. First National
Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S. 364; CaliforniaNational Bank v.
Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362.
Even though the bank might take stock to secure a debt, it
could not lawfully enter into a scheme to create a corporation
in the hope that the corporation would earn money enough
to pay the debt to the bank.
United States courts will permit a national bank to plead
ultra vires. First National Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S. 364;
CaliforniaNational Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362; Ward v.
Joslin, 186 U. S. 142; Building Association v. Home Savings
Bank, 181 Illinois, 35; Nassau Bank v. Jones, 95 N. Y. 115;
Jemison v. Citizens' Savings Bank, 122 N. Y. 135.
Mr. C. A. Severance, with whom Mr. Frank B. Kellogg,
Mr. Robert E. Olds and Mr. J. H. Chandler were on the brief,
for defendant in error:
The acquisition of the stock by the plaintiff in error was
not ultra vires and it is liable to the same extent as any other
stockholder.
This transaction presented none of the elements of an investment or a speculation on the part of the creditors of the
old company. It was simply an attempt to realize the most
that they could upon their claims by taking preferred stock
in the new company organized to liquidate the business. It
was the logical and necessary outcome of a legitimate banking
transaction.
The decisions of this court settle the question of ultra vires
beyond all controversy. First Notional Bank v. National
Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122. See also National Bank v.
Case, 99 U,. S. 628. California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

362, distinguished; Concord First National Bank v. Hawkins,
174 U. S. 364.
In the recent well considered case, Tourtelot v. Whithead, 84
N. W. Rep. (N. Dak.) 8, it was held, after a careful review of
the authorities, that a national bank had power to exchange
notes held by it against a milling corporation, for preferred
stock of that corporation issued for the purpose of raising additional capital, to be used to relieve the corporation from financial embarrassment.
It is always held to be within the powers of an ordinary
mercantile corporation, which finds itself involved in debt so
as to make the course reasonably advisable, to exchange all
of its property for stock in a new corporation organized to take
over and carry on the business. Treadwell v. Salisbury Mfg.
Co. 7 Gray (Mass.), 393; Hodges v. New England Screw Co.,
1 R. I. 312; Hohnes & Griggs Mfg. Co. v. Holmes & Wessell
Metal Co., 127 N. Y. 252; Miner's Ditck Co. v. Zellerbach, 37
California, 543.
So also may a trading corporation, not specifically authorized by law to hold stock in another corporation, take the same
in payment of a debt. Hodges v. New Eng. Screw Co., supra;
Howe v. Boston Carpet Co., 16 Gray (Mass.), 493.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota has not only held that the
stockholder is a surety for the corporation and therefore bound
for anything for which the corporation is bound, but has also
held that a judgment against a corporation is of itself sufficient
evidence of the claim of the judgment creditor against the
stockholder. Frost v. St. Paul Banking & Inv. Co., 57 Minnesota, 331.
Mi. JusTicE- WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The questions principally discussed at bar relate to the
alleged repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States
of the Minnesota law of 1899, by virtue of which the receiver
VOL. cc - 28

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

asserted his power and authority to sue in a court of another
jurisdiction than that of Minnesota to enforce the assessment
made by the court of Minnesota on the stockholders of the
thresher company. But antecedent to that question we must
consider and dispose of the propositions arising from the tenth
ground of the demurrer, that is, that under the averments of
the bill there was no liability on the bank, as the facts alleged
from which it is asserted the liability arose showed that the
act of the bank in subscribing to the stock was ultra vires and
prohibited by the provisions of the national banking act. We
say this is antecedent because, if from the averments of the
declaration, aside from the validity or invalidity of the act of
1899, there could be no liability on the bank to pay the assessment, it will be unnecessary to consider whether the Minnesota
statute added such conditions to the obligation resulting from
the stock subscription at the time it was made as to cause the
statute to be repugnant to the contract or any other clause
of the Constitution of the United States.
At the time the bank took the stock in the thresher company it was provided in section 3 of article X of the constitution of Minnesota as follows: "Each stockholder in any corporation (except those organized for the purpose of carrying
on any kind of manufacturing or mechanical business) shall
be liable to the amount of stock held or owned by him."
If the thresher company was organized solely for manufacturing purposes, it is of course apparent that under this
provision of the Minnesota constitution the stockholders of
the company would not be liable for its debts. Senour 1111g.
Co. v. Church Paint & i1fg. Co., 81 Minnesota, 294. It has,
however, been decided by the Supreme Court of Minnesota that
unless it unquestionably appears that a Minnesota corporation claiming to be a manufacturing corporation was organized
for the exclusive purpose of engaging in manufacturing and
such incidental business as might be reasonably necessary for
effecting that purpose, the exception in the Minnesota constitution to which reference has been made would not apply,

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Czur.

and the double liability would result. State v. Minnesota
Thresher Co., 40 Minnesota, 213; Merchants' Nat. Bank v.
Thresher Mfg. Co., 90 Minnesota, 144. These cases, it is to
be observed, referred to the very act of incorporation upon
which the liability of the bank, if at all, must rest. It clearly
appears, from the comments of the Supreme Court of Minnesota upon the charter, that in the articles of association the
thresher company was declared to be organized under the law
of Minnesota relating to manufacturing corporations as a class
exempt from double liability, and that the motives of the
incorporators were to obtain immunity from the double liability. The court, however, held that the mere law under
which the corporation was organized, and the motive therefor,
would not suffice to bring the incorporators within the control
of the exemption accorded by the constitutional provision, if
from the articles of association it did not clearly appear that
the corporation was confined solely to a manufacturing business and its incidents. The doctrine of the court was thus
clearly stated (90 Minnesota, 147):
"It is immaterial that the corporation was organized under
the statute providing for organizing manufacturing corporations or what the actual intention of the incorporators was, or
that the corporation in fact carried on only a manufacturing
business, but its articles of incorporation are the sole criterion
as to such intention and the purposes for which the corporation
was organized; and, unless it fairly appears therefrom that it
was organized for the exclusive purpose of engaging in manufacturing and such incidental business as may be reasonably
necessary for effectuating the purpose of its organization, its
stockholders are not within the exception to the general rule
of constitutional liability of stockholders for the debts of their
corporation."
And further along in the opinion the declaration was reiterated (p. 148) that the intention of the corporators could not
be ascertained by reference to matters not appearing on the
face of the articles of association, and that the articles were the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

sole criterion as to the purpose for which a corporation was
formed, "that is, for ascertaining the intention of the associates." Applying this rule to the articles of association of
the thresher company, the court found that the acquisition
of the stock, etc., of the car company was a business independently to be engaged in and was not incidental to that of
manufacturing, and, hence, that the corporation was not within
the exception embodied in the constitutional provision imposing a double liability upon stockholders.
Now, the exclusive and only ground upon which the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, in construing the articles of association
of the thresher company, held that the articles embodied a
distinct business from that of manufacturing, is plainly made
manifest by the opinions expressed by the court in the two
cases to which we have referred. In the earlier case the court
said (40 Minnesota, 223):
"It is clear, therefore, to our minds that, under the act of
1873, a corporation can only be organized for carrying on an
exclusively manufacturing or mechanical business, which, of
course, includes anything that is properly incidental to or
necessarily connected with such business. A corporation
organized to carry on manufacturing and also some other
lawful, but independent, business, belongs to the class authorized by title 2, c. 34 (sections 109-119).
"With this construction of the law in mind, it is not difficult, on examination of respondent's articles of association, to
determine to what class it belongs. One of the declared objects of its formation is to purchase the capital stock and evidences of indebtedness of the car company, a business in nowise
incident to or properly connected with that of manufacturing.
The contention of counsel to the contrary cannot be seriously
entertained for a moment. If a manufacturing corporation
desires to buy the plant of another corporation formerly engaged in the same business, that is legitimate; and if, in order
to get it, it becomes necessary to buy with it some other property, not needed for nor connected with the manufacturing

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

business, this also would be permissible, if done as incidental
to the main purpose of securing the plant; but no such reason
or excuse existed for buying the stock and indebtedness of the
car company. Indeed, it would be difficult to imagine anything more foreign to or inconsistent with a legitimate manufacturing business than for a corporation to invest all its capital
in the stock and indebtedness of another and insolvent corporation. Under title 2, a corporation can be organized to
carry on any lawful business, and, if parties desire to deal in
such speculative property, they can do so under that title, but
not under the act of 1873, even by connecting it with manufacturing. Our conclusion, therefore, is that respondent is a
corporation of the class authorized by title 2. That is what
the corporators themselves have characterized it by their
statement of the objects of its formation."
In the latter case, after restating the rule that the face of
the articles of association was the sole criterion as to the purpose
for which the corporation was formed, the court said (90 Minnesota, 148):
"Now, taking the articles in question by the four corners,
and reading them in the light of the rule we have stated, without resorting to technicalities, does it fairly appear therefrom
that the corporation was organized for the exclusive purpose
of engaging in manufacturing and business incidental thereto
and reasonably necessary for carrying into effect such purpose?
We answer the question in the negative. There are two general purposes for which the corporation was organized as declared by the articles-one the purchase of the capital stock,
evidence of indebtedness, and assets of an existing corporation;
and the other the manufacture and sale of all articles, implements, and machinery made of wood and iron, or either of them,
and the manufacture of the materials therein used. The first
purpose does not appear to be a necessary incident to the second
one. On the contrary, the corporation was authorized to buy
and sell the stock, choses in action, and assets of the Northwestern Manufacturing & Car Company mentioned in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

articles, without ever engaging in the business of manufacturing. The first purpose appears to be independent of the second
one, for the power to buy necessarily includes the incidental
power to use, collect, deal with, or sell the stock and assets of
the then existing corporation. Nor does it fairly appear, expressly or by necessary implication, from the language of these
articles, that such stock and assets were to be purchased only
as a necessary incident to the declared purpose of manufacturing all articles which are made of wood and iron, or either of
them."
Accepting this construction given by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota to the articles of association by which alone the
incorporators under those articles can be taken out of the
exemption accorded by the constitution of Minnesota, it follows that the thresher company was organized to embark in
the purely speculative business of buying and selling the stock
and assets of an existing and insolvent corporation, with power,
but without the obligation, to engage as an independent enterprise in a manufacturing business.
Now, the limitations upon the powers of national banks were
clearly pointed out in California National Bank v. Kennedy,
167 U. S. 362, where it was said (p. 366):
"It is settled that the United States statutes relative to
national banks constitute the measure of the authority of such
corporations, and that they cannot rightfully exercise any
powers except those expressly granted, or which are incidental
to carrying on the business for which they are established.
Logan County Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 73. No express
power to acquire the stock of another corporation is conferred
upon a national bank, but it has been held that, as incidental
to the power to loan money on personal security, a bank may
in the usual course of doing such business accept stock of another corporation as collateral, and by the enforcement of its
rights as pledgee it may become the owner of the collateral and
be subject to liability as other stockholders. National Bank
v. Case, 99 U. S. 628. So, also, a national bank may be con-

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ceded to possess the incidental power of accepting in good
faith stock of another corporation as security for a previous
indebtedness. It is clear, however, that a national bank does
not possess the power to deal in stocks. The prohibition is
implied from the failure to grant the power. First National
Bank v. NationalExchange Bank, 92 U. S. 128."
As no authority, express or implied, has ever been conferred
by the statutes of the United States upon a national bank to
engage in or promote a purely speculative business or adventure, accepting the view of the articles of association by
which the bank was denied the benefit of the exemption accorded by the constitution of Minnesota, it follows that the
bank had no power to engage in such business by taking stock
or otherwise. The power of a national bank to engage in the
character of business which the articles of association of the
thresher company manifested, as defined by the Supreme Court
of Minnesota, cannot be inferred to have been possessed by the
bank as an incident of securing a present loan of money or as
a means of protecting itself from loss upon a preexisting indebtedness. To concede that a national bank has ordinarily
the right to take stock in another corporation as collateral for
a present loan or as security for a preexisting debt, does not
imply that because a national bank has lent money to a corporation it may become an organizer and take stock in a new
and speculative venture; in other words, do the very thing
which the previous decisions of this court have held cannot be
done.
The speculative venture, therefore, which the bank undertook, as held by the Minnesota court, when it engaged in
taking the stock in the thresher company being ultra vires,
it follows, under the settled rules hitherto applied by this
court, that the bank, despite the subscription, was entitled
to plead its want of authority as a defense to the claim of the
receiver. The doctrine on the subject was stated in De la
Vergne Co. v. German Savings Inst., 175 U. S. 40, where it was
said (p. 59):

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAx, J., concurring.

200 U. S.

"The doctrine that no recovery can be had upon the contract is based upon the theory that it is for the interest of the
public that corporations should not transcend the limits of
their charters; that the property of stockholders should not
be put to the risk of engagements which they did not undertake; that if the contract be prohibited by statute every one
dealing with the corporation is bound to take notice of the
restrictions in its charter, whether such charter be a private
act or a general law under which corporations of this class are
organized."
And, moreover, the authorities cited in the case just referred
to conclusively establish that the principle which the case
announced as to the power of a corporation to avail of the defense of ultra vires had been previously conclusively settled in
this court. Indeed, the case arising on the record presents an
obvious dilemma, which is this: If the construction of the articles of association given by the Supreme Court of the State
of Minnesota, by which alone the double liability can be enforced, is accepted, then there was no liability because of ultra
vires. If, on the, other hand, we were to disregard the construction given by the Supreme Court of Minnesota to the
articles of' association we should be constrained to the conclusion that those articles but endowed the incorporators of
the thresher company with the power to carry on a manufacturing business, and as a mere incident to acquire for the
purposes of such business the property of the car company;
and it would follow that there was no double liability, by force
of the exception created in the constitution of Minnesota.
The judgment must be reversed and the case remanded with
directions to sustain the demurrer and enter judgment for
the bank.
MR. Jusricu HARLAN concurs solely upon the authority
of CaliforniaNationalBank v. Kennedy and the previous cases,
announcing the doctrine which was adhered to and applied
in that case.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v, CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

BREwzR and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

MR.JusTicE BREwER, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment in this
case, and will briefly state the grounds of my dissent.
There is nothing in the organization of a national bank that
puts it outside of the ordinary rules governing corporations,
whether we consider the rights, obligations or the remedies in
actions by or against it. Section 5136, Rev. Stat., prescribes
the terms of its charter. It is authorized to do a banking business, and, like any other corporation, its powers are limited by
the terms of the charter. A national bank may not engage in
manufacturing, for its charter gives it no authority therefor.
Neither can a manufacturing corporation engage in banking,
and for a like reason. Neither one can engage in the business
of buying and selling stocks, because authority therefor is not
granted in the charter of either, but nevertheless each has authority to take stock in another corporation as security for
or in payment of a debt. It was so long since decided by this
court, First National Bank v. National Exchange Bank, 92
U. S. 122, 126, 127, 128, in which the question presented, as
stated in the opinion of the court, announced by Mr. Chief
Justice Waite, was:
"Whether a national bank, organized under the national
banking act, may, in a fair and bona fide compromise of a contested claim against it growing out of a legitimate banking
transaction, pay a larger sum than would have been exacted in
satisfaction of the demand, so as to obtain by the arrangement
a transfer of certain stocks in railroad and other corporations;
it being honestly believed at the time, that, by turning the
stocks into money under more favorable circumstances than
then existed, a loss, which would otherwise accrue from the
transaction, might be averted or diminished."
And answering that question in the affirmative, it was said:
"Its own obligations must be met, and debts due to it
collected or secured. The power to adopt reasonable and appropriate measures for these purposes is an incident to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BRiwER and BRowx, JJ., dissenting.

200 U. S.

power to incur the liability or become the creditor. Obligations may be assumed that result unfortunately. Loans or
discounts may be made that cannot be met at maturity.
Compromises to avoid or reduce losses are oftentimes the necessary results of this condition of things. These compromises
come within the general scope of the powers committed to the
board of directors and the officers and agents of the bank, and
are submitted to their judgment and discretion, except to the
extent that they are restrained by the charter or by-laws.
Banks may do, in this behalf, whatever natural persons could
do under like circumstances.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Dealing in stocks is not expressly prohibited; but such a
prohibition is implied from the failure to grant the power.
In the honest exercise of the power to compromise a doubtful
debt owing to a bank, it can hardly be doubted that stocks
may be accepted in payment and satisfaction, with a view to
their subsequent sale or conversion into money so as to make
good or reduce an anticipated loss. Such a transaction would
not amount to a dealing in stocks. It was, in effect, so decided in Fleckner v. Bank of United States, 8 Wheat. 351, where
it was held that a prohibition against trading and dealing was
nothing more than a prohibition against engaging in the
ordinary business of buying and selling for profit, and did
not include purchases resulting from ordinary banking transactions."
In California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, the right to
take stock of another corporation as collateral security was
affirmed.
In the case before us the bank had a claim against the
Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company. This was in
1884. The car company was in financial trouble and had been
placed in charge of a receiver appointed by a state court.
The bank, in connection with other creditors of the car company, organized a new corporation-the Minnesota Thresher
Manufacturing Company-to buy the entire plant of the car

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

Bin~wER and BRowN, JJ., diesenting.

company. It was so purchased and the bank surrendered its
claim, taking in payment thereof preferred stock in the thresher
company. The latter company carried on business until it
failed, and then proceedings were had by which the defendant
in error was appointed receiver and an assessment made by
order of the court, which assessment is the basis of this action.
Now, in accordance with the decision of this court in 92 U. S.,
supra, the bank had a right to surrender its claim and take
stock in payment thereof. It did so, and, so far as the record
shows, everything was done in good faith and in the belief that
the best interests of the bank would be promoted thereby.
Having thus become a stockholder in the thresher company it
was entitled to all the benefits and subject to all the liabilities
which attached to ownership of the stock. The fact that the
arrangement antedated the organization of the thresher company is immaterial, for until the arrangement was carried into
effect the claim of the bank against the car company was undisturbed. To hold that a national bank may take, in satisfaction of a claim, stock in a corporation already existing, and
cannot agree to take in such satisfaction stock in a corporation
to be created, and which is afterwards created, and whose stock
is issued to it in payment of the claim, is to create a distinction
without a difference and to sacrifice substance to form. The*
transaction is precisely the same as though the thresher company had been fully organized and thereafter the bank surrendered its claim against the car company for stock in the
thresher company, and that, as held in 92 U. S., is perfectly
legitimate. It held that stock for nearly a score of years, its
right to so hold being, so far as the record shows, unchallenged
by the Government or any stockholders, and enjoying during
that time all the benefits and profits resulting from such holding. Finally the thresher company became embarrassed. Its
creditors proceeded against it, and then for the first time is it
discovered that the holding by the bank of stock in the thresher
company was unauthorized and illegal, and now it repudiates
its liabiltiy as stockholder and leaves the burden of the thresher

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BiXU,,'R and BROWN JJ.

dissenting.

200 U. S.

company's debts to be borne by the other stockholders. Certainly there is little in this to appeal to the sense of justice.
The bank was not, as suggested, investing in any merely
speculative business. It was not accepting stock in a corporation organized for the business of buying and selling. It was
no more engaged in a speculative transaction than if it had
taken a piece of real estate in satisfaction of a debt, hoping
that the time would come when the real estate would be worth
as much or more than the debt. The object of the organization of the thresher company, as stated in its charter, was to
purchase the plant of the Northwestern Manufacturing and Car
Company-that is, to buy a single property which was then
in the hands of the court and likely to be sacrificed in judicial
proceedings. Clearly the creditors thought that by acquiring
title and possession of the entire plant they could realize more
than by a receiver's sale to outside parties; and at the same
time, contemplating the possibilities of the future, they provided in the charter for the carrying on of a general manufacturing business. The scheme is clearly set forth in the
following passage from the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota, quoted in the opinion of this court: •
"There are two general purposes for which the corporation
was organized as declared by the articles-one the purchase
of the capital stock, evidence of indebtedness, and assets of an
existing corporation; and the other the manufacture and sale
of all articles, implements, and machinery made of wood and
iron, or either of them, and the manufacture of the materials
therein used. The first purpose does not appear to be a necessary incident to the second one. On the contrary, the corporation was authorized to buy and sell the stock, choses in
action and assets of the Northwestern Manufacturing and Car
Company mentioned in the articles, without ever engaging
in the business of manufacturing. The first purpose appears
to be independent of the second one, for the power to buy necessarily includes the incidental power to use, collect, deal with,
or sell the stock and assets of the then existing corporation.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. CONVERSE.
200 U. S.

BREn and BRow,, JJ., dissenting.

Nor does it fairly appear, expressly or by necessary implication, from the language of these articles, that such stock and
assets were to be purchased only as a necessary incident to
the declared purpose of manufacturing all articles which are
made of wood and iron, or either of them."
Clearly the thresher company was no speculative corporation, but an ordinary and legitimate business venture. Suppose the bank had been the only creditor, is it possible that
it could not have taken the whole car company's plant in
satisfaction of its claim, and then held it in the hopes of being
able to realize fully on the property? And if it could do so,
acting alone and for its single interest, what is there in the
organization of a national bank which prevents it doing the
like thing in conjunction with other creditors?
Of course, as held by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, unless the thresher company was organized solely for the purpose
of carrying on a manufacturing business, its stockholders would,
under section 3 of article X of the constitution of Minnesota,
be subject to the double liability. For if a power to engage in
manufacturing'exempts stockholders from double liability, no
matter what other business the corporation is chartered to
carry on, every corporation organizing under the Afinnesota
statutes would include that among its charter powers. We
ordinarily accept the construction by a state supreme court
of its constitution and laws as conclusive. In this case the
construction placed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota upon
this clause in the constitution is so obviously right as to preclude the necessity of defense.
For these reasons, thus briefly stated, I am constrained to
dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court, and am
authorized to say that MR. JusTicEn BRowN concurs in this
dissent.

