UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.

321

Syllabus.

200 U. S.

petit jury that tried the accused; whereas, a mixed jury, some
of which shall be of the same race with the accused, cannot be
demanded, as of right, in any case, nor is a jury of that character guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. What an
accused is entitled to demand, under the Constitution of the
United States, is that in organizing the grand jury as well as
in the empaneling of the petit jury, there shall be no exclusion
of his race, and no discrimination against them, because of
their race or color. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 323; In
re Wood, 140 U. S. 278, 285. Whether such discrimination
was practiced in this case could have been manifested only by
proof overcoming the denial on the part of the State of the
facts set out in the written motions to quash. The absence of
any such proof from the record in this case is fatal to the charge
of the accused that his rights under the Fourteenth Amendment were violated.

Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT TIMBER AND LUMIBER
COMPANY.
MARTIN-ALEXANDER LUMBER COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL AND CROSS APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 106, 165.

Argued December 7, 1905.-Deeided February 19, 1906.

The rule of law concerning good faith is the same in respect to purchases
of land and timber as that which obtains in other commercial transactions,
and no one is bound to assume that the party with whom he deals is a
wrongdoer; but, on paying full value for the property presented, the title
to which is apparently valid and in regard to which there are no suspicioum circumstant-es, he will acquire the rights of a bona fide purchaser.
Equiiy looks at the substance and not at the mere form in which a transaction takes place, and constructive fraud in the entries of land pur-

VOL. CC-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

chased by one company from another will not be charged to the purchaser where there is nothing which casts imputation on its conduct, or
tends to show that it was not a purchaser in good faith, because after the
actual purchase and payment therefor, but prior to the final conveyance,
an officer of the vendee company became an officer of the vendor company for the purpose of closing up its business.
Although the doctrine of relation is but a fiction of law it is resorted to
whenever justice requires, and under it patents for lands when issued
by the United States become operative as of the dates of the entries,-the inception of the equitable right upon which the patent is basedand the doctrine can be applied to protect a bona fide purchaser of timber
notwithstanding the wrongful character of the entries of which he is
ignorant. But the doctrine of relation never carries a patent back to
the date of any entry other than that on which it is issued.
The headnotes to the opinions of this court are not the work of the court
but are simply the work of the Reporter, giving his understanding of the
decision, prepared for the convenience of the profession.
A final receipt is an acknowledgment by the Government that it has received full pay for the land and holds the title in trust for the entryman
and will in due course issue to him a patent, and thereupon he becomes
the equitable owner of the land.
Until the patent which passes the legal title is issued the legal title remains
in the Government and is subject to investigation and determination by
the Land Department, but this power will not be exercised arbitrarily
or without notice, and if improperly exercised the rights of the entryman
may be enforced in the courts after the patent has been issued to other
parties.
The principles of equity exist independently of, and anterior to, all Congressional legislation, and the statutes are either annunciations of those
principles or their applications to particular cases, and a party dealing
with an entryman the evidences of whose entry are in form good and
sufficient is justly entitled to the consideration of a court of equity, and
one who has in good faith cut and removed timber under contract with
such an entryman whose entry is subsequently cancelled and purchase
money retained by the Government, cannot be compelled to account to
the Government for the timber cut and removed in reliance on such
contract.

THEsE are cross appeals from a decree of the Circuit Court

of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, affirming in part and reversing in part a decree of the Circuit Court for the Western
District of Arkansas.
The bill was filed on April 5, 1902, by the United States
against the Detroit Timber and Lumber Company, the Martin-

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

323

Statement of the Case.

Alexander Lumber Company and a number of individual defendants. The object of the bill was to set aside patents to
forty-four tracts of land issued to the individual defendants
and all conveyances, contracts and leases from them purporting to convey title to or a right to cut and remove timber from
the lands, and also for an accounting of the timber cut and
removed from the lands by the two companies, and judgment
therefor.
The charge was that the lands were entered under the timber
act of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 89, and in fraud of its provisions,
in that the purchase money was advanced by the MartinAlexander Company under contracts with the entrymen that
after the entries they should convey to it all the standing
timber thereon. The Martin-Alexander Company denied that
there were any such contracts, and the Detroit Company in
addition pleaded that it was a bona fide purchaser from the
former company. It appeared from the testimony that for
some time prior to January 14, 1901, the Martin-Alexander
Company owned and operated a sawmill plant in the vicinity
of these lands; that most, if not all, of the entrymen were its
employ~s; that it furnished all the money for the purchase
prices of these lands as well as for the expenses connected with
the entries, and that after the entries the entrymen, with three
exceptions, executed conveyances to it of all the standing
timber. Fifty-eight and one-half per cent of the stock of the
Martin-Alexander Company belonged to E. B. Martin, while
A. V. Alexander controlled the remainder, which was owned
by himself, his wife, and J. 0. Means.
On January 14, 1901, the Detroit Company purchased the
entire property of the Martin-Alexander Company for $60,000
cash and an assumption of its obligations, amounting to
$17,456.79. Prior to May 9, 1901, patents were issued for all
the lands, thirteen having been issued before January 14, 1901.
After the purchase from the Martin-Alexander Company the
Detroit Company obtained deeds of the lands from the patentees
of twenty-seven of the tracts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

200 U. S.

The Circuit Court found that the transactions between the
entrymen and the Martin-Alexander Company were not in
conflict with the statute, that there were no agreements between them and it prior to the entries in respect to conveyances of the standing timber, and that there was only the
mere expectation on the part of the company that it would
be able to purchase the timber. Thereupon it dismissed the
bill. 124 Fed. Rep. 393. The Court of Appeals, reviewing
the testimony, held that there were contracts between the
parties making the entries and the Martin-Alexander Company
prior to the entries, and that therefore those entries were in
fraud of the act, but it also found that the purchase by the
Detroit Company was in good faith, and that therefore that
company was entitled to protection in its purchase. It ordered the bill dismissed as to the twenty-seven tracts for which
patents had been issued and conveyances made to the Detroit
Company. As to the seventeen which had not been conveyed,
it ordered a decree cancelling the patents, but dismissing the
bill so far as respects any relief claimed against the Detroit
Company. 67 C. C. A. 1.
Mr. Marsden C. Burch and Mr. Fred A. Maynard, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor
General was on the brief, for the United States:
This case is the same in principle and fact as United States
v. Trinidad Coal & Coke Co., 137 U. S. 160, 166, and is not
controlled by United States v. Budd, 144 U. S. 154. In the
latter case there was but one entry; in the case at bar there
was a gigantic conspiracy to gather in an immense tract of
land through a premeditated scheme. The testimony bears
this out.
The Detroit Company had actual notice. Clark & Marshall
on Private Corporations, §§ 348, 354, and cases cited; 2 Morawetz on Corp., 2d ed., p. 943.
The so-called purchase by the Detroit Company was merely
a merger, although appellees claim that the transaction cannot

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

325

Argument for Lumber Companies.

be regarded as a merger for the reason that they had not the
legislative authority to bring about a merger; but as to this
proposition no corporation can defend its acts or change their
character in law by the claim that such acts are ultra vires;
and legislative authority is not necessarily a condition precedent
to a legal merger. Such a merger may always be ratified by
the legislature after it has taken place. Bishop v. Brainerd,
28 Connecticut, 289; Mead v. New York &c. R. Co., 45 Connecticut, 199.
The Detroit Company also had constructive notice. It was
put on notice as to all the circumstances of the case.
The appellees contend that their duty stopped with the mere
assurance from the vendor that the title was all right. They
knew that the company had no record title to the lands described. They had no legal right to rely upon the bare statement of interested parties whose interest might prompt them
to make false or misleading statements. Price v. MacDonald,
54 Am. Dec. 657.
Passive good faith will not serve to excuse willful ignorance.
2 Pomeroy on Eq. Jur. § 762; 21 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 584,
and 23 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 515, and authorities cited,
and see also Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476, which holds that
one cannot be a bona fide purchaser who does not make a
searching inquiry as to the property acquired.
Mr. James F. Read, with whom Mr. U. M. Rose, Mr. Thomas
C. McRae and Mr. George B. Rose were on the brief, for appellees in No. 106.
Mr. W. E. Hemingway, with whom Mr. U. M. Rose and Mr.
George B. Rose were on the brief, for appellants in No. 165:
The case of the Government fails for want of proof. It
will be presumed that the Martin-Alexander Company preferred legal to illegal entries. United States v. Budd, 144
U. S. 154, 163. Legal sales of timber lands subsequent to
entries do not prove illegal prior contracts to sell. The finding of the judge in the Circuit Court who heard the testimony

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Lumber Companies.

200 U. 8.

that there was no fraud or violation of law is entitled to great
respect.
The testimony may indicate improvidence and loose business methods by the entrymen, but it does not show any purpose to enter land for the benefit of anyone else. Buying for
sale at a profit, could not have been what the act meant by
speculation. As it applies only to land valuable for timber
or stone, the entrymen could derive no benefit from the land
except by selling it. Only a mill man could make the entry
for the purpose of using the timber, and it would not be contended that the benefits of the act were intended to be confined to them.
The meaning of the word "speculation" in the act is not
obvious. If used in its ordinary meaning the purpose of the
act would be defeated, and therefore that cannot be the
meaning intended. It means only that the entryman does
not intend to speculate on the privilege acquired by the
application; but to complete the entry and acquire the land
for the benefit to result to him by reason of owning it. Myers
v. Croft, 13 Wall. 294; Sec'y of Interior MSS. Op., Dec. 10,
1903, Re Donahue et al.; see sub. "Speculation," Bouvier's
Law Diet.; Century Dictionary; Webster's Dictionary of 1896
and 1903, changing definitions of edition of 1887. And as to
construction of the act see United States v. Budd, supra;
United States v. Clark, 125 Fed. Rep. 774. United States v.
Bailey, 17 L. D. 468, and Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476,
495, distinguished.
The Detroit Company was an innocent purchaser for value.
The testimony is clearly to the effect that it had no affirmative
notice or knowledge.
Where it is sought to charge a purchaser 1-1r value with
mala fides the burden is upon the complainant to show, either
actual knowledge of the fraud, or knowledge of some fact, that
would make it his duty to inquire, and his failure to do so an
act of gross or culpable negligence. Tonsend v. Little, 109
U. S. 504; Meehon v. Williams, 48 Pa. St. 238; Wilson v. Wall,

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

327

Argument for Lumber Companies.

6 Wall. 83; Devlin on Deeds, 1st ed., § 729; Hall v. Livingston,
3 Del. Ch. 348; Shepherd v. Shepherd, 36 Michigan, 173; Hardy
v. Harbin, 1 Sawyer, 194; Mills v. Smith, 8 Wall. 27; Colorado
C. & I. Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307; Crawford v. Neal,
144 U. S. 585; Jones v. Simpson, 116 U. S. 609.
The officers of the Detroit Company were only bound to
investigate the public records. According to those there was
no illegality. They were correct according to statute, 2
U. S. Comp. Stat., p. 1546, and see Lea v. Polk County Copper
Co., 21 How. 493; Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 448; United
States v. California,& Oregon Land Co., 148 U. S. 31; United
States v. Minor, 29 Fed. Rep. 134; Simmons v. Moare, 2 Fed.
Rep. 325.
A vendee is not bound to inquire of the parties to a conveyance whether they are committing a fraud by suppressing
anterior deed, etc., for it is evidence that if fraud was intended,
deception would be carried out by denial. Such inquiries are
not resorted to in practice in business transactions. 2 Hare
& Wallace Notes to Leading Cases in Equity, 66; Miller v.
Froley, 23 Arkansas, 745; Ferguson v. 1liay, 4 Ky. Law. Rep.
989.
A concealed defect or secret equity arising from the conduct
of those who originally owned the property of which the
purchaser had no notice cannot be set up against him. Danberry v. Robinson, 14 N. J. Eq. 213.
To secure in equity all the rights of a bona fide and duly
vigilant purchaser one is not required to make inquiry whether
there is fraud or trust where the title and possession give no
indication that there is either. Leach v. Ausbacher, 55 Pa. St.
85; Yardly v. Torr, 67 Fed. Rep. 857; Fletcher v. Peck, 6
Cranch, 135; Anderson v. Roberts, 18 Johns. Rep. 531; 21 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 588.
Even if the officers of the Detroit Company knew of the facts
they still acted in good faith as they were in no way connected
with the frauds alleged. United States v. Southern Pacific Co.,
184 U. S. 54.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

At the time this suit was brought the Detroit Company had
not only the equitable but the legal title to the property.
Kirby's Stat. of Arkansas, §734. As to Hawley v. Diller,
supra, see 1 Story's Eq. Jur. 64; 2 Pomeroy Eq. .ur. §§ 740,
766; United States v. Winona & St. Peters R. R. Co., 165 U. S.
463.

There is no testimony that the Detroit Company procured
the lands for an inadequate consideration. But had they done
so in fact, there are authorities that hold that all that was
necessary was that the consideration should be valuable. 23
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 488; Bullock v. Sadlier,Ambler,
763; Dean v. Anderson, 34 N. J. Eq. 508; Wait on Fraud.
Convey. and Creditors' Bills, 1st ed., § 369.
It does not matter in this case that the Detroit Company
did not acquire the legal title when it paid the purchase price.
It acquired a right to call for a legal estate. Pomeroy's Equity,
§ 727; Adams's Equity, 161; Deuber Co. v. Daugherty, 62
Ohio St. 589. And that is sufficient. 23 Am. & Eng. Ency.
of Law, 486; St. Johnsbury v. Morrill, 55 Vermont, 165; notes
to Bassett v. Nosworthy, 2 Leading Cases in Equity, 102;
United States v. Clark, 125 Fed. Rep. 774.
There was no merger of the two companies but an actual
transfer. 1 Thompson on Corp. § 315; 6 Am. & Eng. Ency.
of Law, 802; The Key City, 14 Wall. 653; McAlpine v. Union
Pacific Railway Co., 23 Fed. Rep. 168.
MR. JuSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The able and elaborate opinions of both the Circuit Court
and the Court of Appeals relieve us from much labor. There
are two questions of fact: First, whether the parties making
the entries had, prior to acquiring title from the Government,
made any agreement with the Martin-Alexander Company for
a conveyance of an interest in the properties, or were seeking
to acquire title solely for their own benefit. Second, whether

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

329

Opinion of the Court.

the Detroit Company was a purchaser in good faith from the
Martin-Alexander Company. With reference to the first question, the Circuit Court was of the opinion that there were no
agreements between the parties. The Court of Appeals was
of a different opinion, and held that the entries were made in
pursuance of such agreements. This is a case in equity, and
while in such a case questions of fact are always open to consideration by an appellate court, great respect is paid to the
conclusions of the trial court in respect to them. Certainly,
if the Circuit Court and the Court of Appeals had agreed we
should be very loath to disturb their conclusions. Differing
as they do in the present case, we have examined this question, and agree with the Court of Appeals. The entire management of these entries was in the hands of an agent of the
Martin-Alexander Company. It furnished the moneys, both
for the purchase prices and all expenses, and it is not easy to
believe that it did all this on a mere expectation that after the
entries had been made it could purchase the timber. It is a
much more reasonable conclusion that it had an understanding
with the parties making the entries respecting purchases and
prices. It is quite likely that the entrymen were not conscious
of wronging the Government, and thought that if it received
the full price demanded that was enough. The testimony of
one witness suggests at least that they may have been advised
that there was no contract unless it was in writing, and that
hence they could conscientiously take the oath required in
connection with an entry. So, without casting any imputation of intentional perjury on those parties, we agree with the
Court of Appeals that the testimony points strongly to the
fact that the entries were in pursuance of an understanding or
agreement with the Martin-Alexander Company, that, as it
was advancing all the money, the entrymen should convey
to it the standing timber at a fixed price.
With reference to the second question of fact, the Circuit
Court made no finding, having disposed of the case by its conclusion in respect to the first. The Court of Appeals found

OCTOBER TERI, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

that the Detroit Company was a purchaser in good faith from
the Martin-Alexander Company. Here, too, we have examined the testimony, and are satisfied that the conclusion of the
Court of Appeals was correct. A brief statement of the salient
facts may be not unimportant. The headquarters of the
Detroit Company were in St. Louis, of the Martin-Alexander
Company in southwest Arkansas. They dealt at arm's length.
On December 20, 1900, Alexander, of the Martin-Alexander
Company, applied to U7. L. Clark, president of the Detroit
Company, at St. Louis, to purchase Martin's interest in the
Martin-Alexander Company. Clark declined, stating that the
Detroit Company would make no purchase of a fractional
interest in the property. Thereupon it was arranged that he
should make an examination with a view to the purchase of
the entire property. The Detroit Company's inspector was
sent to Arkansas to examine the lands. Clark himself went
down in the January following, and, after receiving the report
of the inspector, terms of sale were, on January 14, agreed
upon; $60,000 cash and the assumption of the Martin-Alexander
Company's debts. The $60,000, by agreement between the
stockholders of the Martin-Alexander Company, were divided,
$34,850 to Martin, $24,850 to Mrs. Alexander, $150 to A. V.
Alexander, and $150 to J. 0. Means. Martin and Means were
paid at once; the debts were also promptly paid. Alexander
desired to take stock in the Detroit Lumber Company in lieu
of the money coming to his wife and himself. Clark was not
then authorized to make such arrangement, but subsequently
the stock of the Detroit Lumber Company was increased and.
the Alexanders were paid in full in that stock. The entire
property of the Martin-Alexander Company, included in which
were the sawmill, tram and logging roads, these timber contracts and other like contracts and also all stock on hand, was
at the time of the purchase, January 14, turned over to the
Detroit Lumber Company, which thereafter continued the
business. The Martin-Alexander Company bad no deeds of
the lands in controversy, but simply contracts for the timber

UNITED STATES 4,, DETROIT LUMBER CO.
900

U. S.

331

Opinion of the Court.

thereon, and in order to be relieved from the necessity of keep-

ing accounts with respect to the different tracts the Detroit
Company proceeded to obtain deeds from twenty-seven of the
patentees, paying on an average $25 apiece therefor, which was
a fair price for the lands after the timber had been cut off. It
had no knowledge or intimation that there was anything wrong
in the titles until the last of September or the first of October,
1901,-more than four months after the Government had
issued its patents for all the lands-when it received a notice
to that effect from a Government inspector.
Now we remark that there is no intimation in the testimony
that the purchase price was not paid by the Detroit Company
in cash and stock as agreed upon, no suggestion that the price
was an unreasonable one. There was nothing strange or unnatural in the contract between the companies; on the contrary
it was one which might well be entered into by parties situated
as these were. But it is contended by the Government that
if the Detroit Company had examined with care the books of
the Martin-Alexander Company, and the papers which it turned
over as evidences of its titles, it would have perceived that the
timber contracts were made shortly after the issue of the final
receiver's receipts, that the parties making the contracts were
all or nearly all employ~s of the Martin-Alexander Company,
to whom moneys had been advanced, and with each of whom
an account was being kept; that it was its duty to critically
examine these matters in order to be sure that the titles which
it was acquiring were good. In their brief counsel for the
Government say:

"We claim that the law as laid down in Hawley v. Diller,
that one who takes title before the issuance of patent cannot
claim to be a bona fide purchaser, made it the duty of the
Detroit Company to make the most searching inquiry at least
as to all of the timber contracts except the thirteen for which
patents to the land had issued."
We do not understand the law to be as stated, or that one
who enters into an ordinary and reasonable contract for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

purchase of property from another is bound to presume that
the vendor is a wrongdoer, and that, therefore, he must make
a searching inquiry as to the validity of his claim to the property. The rule of law in respect to purchases of land or timber
is the same as that which obtains in other commercial transactions, and such a rule as is claimed by counsel would shake
the foundations of commercial business. No one is bound to
assume that the party with whom he deals is a wrongdoer, and
if he presents property, the title to which is apparently valid,
and there are no circumstances disclosed which cast suspicion
upon the title, he may rightfully deal with him, and, paying
full value for the same, acquire the rights of a purchaser in
good faith. Jones v. Simpson, 116 U. S. 609, 615. He is not
bound to make a searching examination of all the account
books of the vendor nor to hunt for something to cast a suspicion upon the integrity of the title.
It is further said that the written contract of sale from the
Martin-Alexander Company to the Detroit Company was not
executed till March 1, 1901, and that on the fourteenth of
January, 1901, Martin resigned his position as president of
the Martin-Alexander Company, and Clark, the president of
the Detroit Company, was elected president of the former
company; that, as the chief executive of that company, he
was charged with knowledge of all that the company knew, and
that therefore, before the written contract was entered into,
he and the Detroit Company had constructive notice of the
wrongful character of these timber contracts. But that is a
mere evasive technicality. The bill charges and the answer
admits the sale on January 14, and the facts, as disclosed by
the testimony, are that Martin desired to leave at once on
receipt of his money and return to his home in Illinois; that
Clark was put in his place as president to enable the MartinAlexander Company to close up its outstanding affairs. The
real contract between the parties was entered into before Clark
became president, and all that was afterwards done was simply
to put in writing the terms of the contract which had been

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

333

Opinion of the Court.

agreed upon. Equity looks at the substance and not at the
mere form in which a transaction takes place. The rule in
respect to constructive notice was thus stated in Wilson v.
Wall, 6 Wall. 83, 90, 91:
"A chancellor will not be astute to charge a constructive
trust upon one who has acted honestly and paid a full and fair
consideration without notice or knowledge. On this point we
need only to refer to Sugden on Vendors, p. 622, where he says:
'In lVare v. Lord Egmont the Lord Chancellor Cranworth expressed his entire concurrence in what, on many occasions of
late years, had fallen from judges of great eminence on the
subject of constructive notice, namely, that it was highly
inexpedient for courts of equity to extend the doctrine. When
a person has not actual notice he ought not to be treated as
if he had notice unless the circumstances are such as enable
the court to say, not only that he might have acquired, but
also that he ought to have acquired it but for his gross negligence in the conduct of the business in question. The question then, when it is sought to affect a purchaser with constructive notice, is not whether he had the means of obtaining
and might by prudent caution have obtained the knowledge in
question, but whether not obtaining was an act of gross or
culpable negligence.'"
And, again, in Townsend v. Little, 109 U. S. 504, 511:
"Constructive notice is defined to be in its nature no more
than evidence of notice, the presumption of which is so violent
that the court will not even allow of its being controverted.
Plwnb v. Fluitt, 2 Anst. 432; Kennedy v. Green, 3 My. & K.
699. . . . As said by Strong, J., in Meehan v. Williams,
48 Penn. State, 238, what makes inquiry a duty is such a
visible state of things as is inconsistent with a perfect right
in him, who proposes to sell. See also Holmes v. Stout, 3 Green
Ch. 492; MeMechan v. Griffing, 3 Pick. 149; Harwick v.
Thompson, 9 Alabama, 409."
In the light of these authorities we see nothing which casts
any imputation on the conduct of the Detroit Company, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

that tends to show that it was not a purchaser in absolutc good
faith.
Now, what is the law controlling under these circumstances?
Much reliance is placed by the Government on Hawley v. Diller,
178 U. S. 476, which, affirming prior cases, holds that an entryman under the timber act acquires only an equity, and that a
purchaser from him cannot be regarded as a bona fide purchaser
within the meaning of the act. But the Detroit Company
purchased twenty-seven tracts after the issue of the patents
therefor. And in making these purchases it dealt, not with
the Martin-Alexander Company, but directly with the patentees.
While the amounts paid were small, yet, as counsel for the
Government admit in their brief that "the land without the
timber is of no value," there can be no suggestion of inadequacy
of price. As, also, it had no knowledge or suspicion of wrong
in the titles, it is, as to these tracts, strictly and technically,
within the language of the act, a bona fide purchaser. If it be
contended that, by virtue of the contracts for the sale of timber,
it had acquired some interest in the lands prior to the issue of
patents, it is sufficient to say that by the doctrine of relation
the patents, when issued, became operative as of the dates of
the entries. It is true that this doctrine is but a fiction of law,
but it is a fiction resorted to whenever justice requires. It is
that principle by which an act done at one time is considered
to have been done at some antecedent time. It is a doctrine
of frequent application, designed to promote justice. Thus,
a sheriff's deed takes effect not of its date, but of the time when
the lien of the judgment attached. The ordinary railroad land
grants have been grants in presenti, and under them the title
has been adjudged to pass, not at the completion of the road,
but at the date of the grant. Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; St. Paul &c.
Railway Co. v. Phelps, 137 U. S. 528; St. Paul & Pacific v.
Northern Pacific, 139 U. S. 1; United States v. Southern Pacific
Railroad, 146 U. S. 570. A patent from the United States
operates to transfer the title, not merely from the date of the

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

335

Opinion of the Court.

patent, but from the inception of the equitable right upon
which it is based. Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330. Indeed,
this is generally true in case of the merging of an equitable
right into a legal title. Although the patents in this case were
not issued until after the sales of the timber, yet when issued
they became operative as of the date of the original entries.
This doctrine has frequently been recognized by this and other
courts. Landes v. Brant, 10 How. 348; Lessee of French and
Wife v. Spencer, 21 How. 228; Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wal!. 402;
Lynch v. Bernal, 9 Wall. 315; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92;
Simmons v. Wagner, 101 U. S. 260; Jackson v. Ramsey, 3 Cow.
75; Welch v. Dutton, 79 Illinois, 465; Ormiston, Guardian, v.
Truimbo, Adinr., 77 21o. App. 310. in the first of these cases it
was said (p. 372):
"To protect purchasers, the rule applies, 'that where there
are divers acts concurrent to make a conveyance estate, or
other thing, the original act shall be preferred; and to this
the other acts shall have relation,' as stated in Viner's Abr. tit.
Relation, 290.
"Cruise on Real Property, vol. V, pp. 510, 511, lays down
the doctrine with great distinctness. He says: 'There is no rule
better founded in law, reason, and convenience than this, that
all the several parts and ceremonies necessary to complete a
conveyance shall be taken together as one act, and operate
from the substantial part by relation.'
"Applying the doctrine of relation, and taking all the several
parts and ceremonies necessary to complete the title together,
'as one act,' then the confirmation of 1811 and the patent of
1845 must be taken to relate to the first act; that of filing the
claim in 1805."
In Simmons v. Wagner, p. 261:
"Where the right to a patent has once become vested
in a purchaser of public lands, it is equivalent, so far as
the Government is concerned, to a patent actually issued.
The execution and delivery of the patent after the right
to it has become complete are the mere ministerial acts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

the officers charged with that duty. Barney v. Dolph, 97
U. S. 652."
See also United States v. Freyberg, 32 Fed. Rep. 195, a case
in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, in
which it was held by Judge Dyer that an action brought by
the Government to recover for timber cut from land, which
had been entered as a homestead, but the full equitable title
of which had not then passed to the entryman, either by the
required occupation of the premises or by a commuting of the
homestead to a preemption entry-an action maintainable at
the time it was commenced-was defeated by the issue of the
final receiver's receipt and the consequent perfection of a full
equitable title.
Counsel for the Government deny the application of this
principle in the present case on the ground, first, that it gives
vitality and validity to a wrongful acquisition of title from the
Government. They say that equity is never founded on a
wrong, and that because the original entries were wrongful
the doctrine of relation will not be applied. But this is a clear
misunderstanding of the purpose and scope of the doctrine
of relation. If the original entries were rightful there is no
need of its application, for the patents would pass perfect titles.
The equity is founded on the rightful conduct of the purchaser
and not on the wrongful conduct of the entrymen. It upholds
the purchaser in his honest purchase notwithstanding the
wrongful character of the entries. This is akin to the ordinary
rule in respect to a bona fide purchaser. Equity sustains the
title in spite of the fact that his grantor may have wrongfully obtained it, and upholds it because of his rightful
conduct.
Counsel also say that the question is settled by the decision
in Hawley v. Dillcr, supra, relying upon the second paragraph
in the headnotes:
"An entryman under this act acquires only an equity, and a
purchaser from him cannot be regarded as a bona fide purchaser
within the meaning of the act of Congress unless he becomes

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

337

Opinion of the Court.

such after the Government, by issuing a patent, has parted
with the legal title."
There are two or three answers to this contention. In the
first place, the headnote is not the work of the court, nor does
it state its decision-though a different rule, it is true, is prescribed by statute in some States. It is simply the work of
the reporter, gives his understanding of the decision, and is
prepared for the convenience of the profession in the examination of the reports. In the second place, if the patent referred
to in that headnote is a patent issued upon a wrongful entry,
no such fact appeared in the case, because no patent was issued
upon the entry charged to have been wrongful, but after that
entry had been cancelled, a patent was issued to DUller on a new
entry. If it refers to some other patent than one issued upon
a wrongful entry, it has no pertinency, for the doctrine of relation never carries a patent back to the date of any other entry
than that upon which it is issued. And finally the headnote
is a misinterpretation of the scope of the decision.
With reference to the other tracts and the denial of any
relief, by accounting or otherwise, against the Detroit Company,
it is contended that as prior to the issue of a patent the Land
Department could have set aside the entries on account of the
fraudulent contracts, the courts will now grant the same relief;
and further, that inasmuch as the patents are by this decree
cancelled and the title restored to the Government the Detroit
Company must be regarded as a wrongdoer in respect to the
timber which it took from the lands prior to the decree, and
an accounting should have been ordered. But this ignores
the fact that the Detroit Company acted in good faith and
purchased the timber from those having an apparently perfect
equitable title thereto. It becomes necessary to inquire what
is the significance of a final receiver's receipt and the effect of
a cancellation by the Land Department of such a receipt.
The receipt is an acknowledgment by the Government that
it has received full pay for the land, that it holds the legal
title in trust for the entryman and will in due course issue to
VoL. cc-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

him a patent. He is the equitable owner of the land. It
becomes subject to state taxation, and under the control of
state laws in respect to conveyances, inheritances, etc. Carroll
v. Safford, 3 How. 441; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210;
Simmons v. Wagner, supra; Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v.
Minnesota, 159 U. S. 526; Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456;
Hastings & Dakota R. R. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357; Benson
Mining Co. v. Alta Mining Co., 145 U. S. 428.
Indeed, in some of the opinions of this court, emphasizing
the value of a receiver's receipt, there are expressions which
seem to underestimate the significance of a patent. Wisconsin
Central R. R. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 510; Deseret
Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241, 251. For it must be remembered that the latter is the instrument which passes the legal
title, and that until it is issued the legal title remains with the
Government and is subject to investigation and determination
by the Land Department. Barden v. Northern Pacific R. R.
Co., 154 U. S. 288, 326; Michigan Land & Lumber Co. v. Rust,
168 U. S. 589, 592; Guaranty Savings Bank v. Bladow, 176
U. S. 448. But while until the issue of the patent the land is
under the control of the Land Department, which, upon proper
investigation and for sufficient reasons, may set aside the
certificate of entry, yet this power of the Land Department
cannot arbitrarily be exercised without notice to the entryman, and if improperly exercised the rights of the entryman
may be enforced in the courts after the patent has issued
to other parties. Guaranty Savings Bank v. Bladow, supra.
It is true, as against the Government, and while the title remains in the Government, he may not be able to enforce his
equity, because no action can be maintained against the
Government, except upon contract, express or implied. United
States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1. But while he may not sue on his
equity, he may protect that equity when sued by the Government. It is sometimes said that a legal title with an equity
is paramount to an equity alone, but this is not strictly true
unless the equities are equal, for sometimes a superior equity

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.
200 U. S.

339

Opinion of the Court.

may be adjudged paramount to a legal title and an inferior
equity. Garland v. Wynn, 20 How. 6; Lytle v. Arkansas, 22
How. 193; Lindsey v. Hawes, 2 Black, 554; Wirth v. Bran-son,
98 U. S. 118; 2 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. § 678, and following. But
we need not stop to inquire what rights the Detroit Company
will have after a patent has issued. It is enough now to hold
that it can defend its equities against the suit of the Government.
It is a mistake to suppose that for the determination of
equities and equitable rights we must look only to the statutes
of Congress. The principles of equity exist independently of
and anterior to all Congressional legislation, and the statutes
are either annunciations of those principles or limitations upon
their application in particular cases. In passing upon transactions between the Government and its vendees we must bear
in mind the general principles of equity and determine rights
upon those principles except as they are limited by special
statutory provisions. And clearly upon those principles a
party purchasing an equitable right is entitled to be protected
in his purchase so far as it can be done without trespassing
upon the rights of other parties. The statute provides that
if an entry is wrongfully made it may, prior to patent, be set
aside by the Land Department, the entryman forfeiting the
money which he has paid. In other words, by the action of
the Department the equitable title is cancelled and restored
to the Government. It then has both the full title to the land
and the money which had been paid for it. And this is the
penalty which is imposed for the wrongful entry. Certainly
when the Government retains the full price which it has placed
upon the land and also recovers the land itself it is abundantly
compensated for any wrong which has been attempted by the
entryman. And a party who deals with such entrymanrelying upon the evidences of his entry, which are in all respects
in form good and sufficient, and are an acknowledgment by
the Government officials of a rightful entry-is justly entitled
to the consideration of a court of equity. In this case, finding

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

the entrymen holding apparently valid equitable titles to the
lands, it entered into contracts with theni for the purchase of
the timber. It cut and removed the timber-all in good faith.
It is equitable that, having thus acted in good faith, it should
not be held to account for the timber which it has already paid
for and cut and removed in reliance upon these contracts.
The Government has every dollar which it would have received
in case of a perfectly valid entry, and has also recovered the
land. Surely it is not just for it to ask further payment, and
from a party who dealt in good faith with the entrymen, relying upon the titles which it had created. If the Detroit Company has taken some timber from the land it has dnce paid
for it, and ought not to be compelled to pay a second time, and
to the .Government, which has already received full pay for
the land, timber and all. It is inequitable to give to the
Government not merely the land, and the price which it charged
for the land, but also the value of the timber obtained by the
Detroit Company. It is doubling the penalty which the
statute imposes, or if not doubling, at least largely increasing it.
We think the decision of the Court of Appeals was right,
and it is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HRLAN and MR. JUSTICE IICKENNA dissent.

