OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

approach of the bridge to cover the opening in Morrison street,
and change the grade where it was not changed when the approach was built.
The act of 1878 is a local statute and in its interpretation involves no Federal question, nor does it become such by the
circumstances of this case. It expresses the legislative authority and its interpretation by the Supreme Court of the State we
must accept. And the power to grade was not exhausted by
one exercise. Goszler v. Georgetown, 6 Wheat. 593, 597; W~abash R. R. Co. v. Defiance, 167 U. S. 88. It is a phase of the same
contention that the bridge company was given the right of
election of the manner of constructing the approaches, and,
being bound by that election, the city, its successor, is also
bound.
Judgment affirmed.

HOWARD v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 77.

Argued November 10, 13, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.

The provisions of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to the Federal Constitution do not apply to proceedings in the state courts.
A State cannot be deemed guilty of violating its obligations under the
Constitution of the United States because of a decision, even if erroneous,
of its highest court, if acting within its jurisdiction.
While the words "due process of law," as used in the Fourteenth Amendment, protect fundamental rights, the Amendment was not intended to
interfere with the power of the State to protect the fives, liberty and
property of its citizens, nor with the power of adjudication of its courts
in administering the process provided by the law of the State.
In discharging a juror in a murder trial before he was sworn, for cause
sufficient to the court, and after questioning him in absence of accused
and counsel but with the consent of his counsel, and substituting another
juror equally competent, held, that the accused was not denied due
process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is the law of Kentucky that occasional absence of the accused from the
trial from which no injury results to his substantial rights is not reversible error.

HOWARD v. KENTUCKY.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The Criminal Code of Kentucky, § 281, provides that decisions of the trial
court upon challenges shall not be subject to exception, and as the highest
court of the State in deciding that even though the action of the trial
court in regard to the juror had been error it could not reverse under
§ 281, followed the construction of that section established by prior
cases, it did not make a discriminating application of the section against
the accused and he was not therefore deprived of the equal protection
of the laws.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. M. Smith, with whom Mr. J. A. Violett, Mr. J. A.
Scott and Mr. Carlos B. Little were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
A Federal question is seasonably presented, although made
for the first time in the Appellate Court, in petition for a rehearing, provided said court passes upon same, and holds
against the party invoking protection under the Constitution
or laws of the United States. Mallet v. North Carolina, 181
U. S. 592; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79; U. S. Compiled Statutes, § 709; CanalCo., v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433; O'Neil v. Vermont, 144
U. S. 359. A State can repeal any common law offense, or
change the modes of criminal procedure, so long as said change
does not violate any absolute and fundamental right of the
accused; as to the question here involved, the State of Kentucky has adopted the common law, without modification or
change, and the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment protects the fundamental rights thereby created and recognized.
Section 233 present Const. Kentucky; Ray v. Sweeney, 77 Kentucky, 9; Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dallas, 419; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S.366.
The provision of the Fourteenth Amendment that no State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, having brought within the Federal jurisdiction
and power the protection against state action, the judicial
power of the Nation necessarily extends thereto; and it is not
requisite for jurisdiction that the right or thing claimed come

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

from the law of the United States; though it comes from the
state law, it is protected from unlawful state action. It must
not be so construed, however, as to interfere with the State in
its enactment and local administration of the criminal law, nor
to confine it to any special mode of proceeding, so long as said
law, as enforced by the State, affords equal protection to all
persons within its jurisdiction, similarly situated, and is not
violative of the fundamental and inalienable rights that are essential to the protection of life, liberty and property. Section 11,
Bill of Rights, Kentucky; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 99;
Fifth Amendment Const. U. S.; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366;
Lowe v. Kansas, 163 U. S. 85; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 11;
United States v. Cruikshank et al., 92 U. S. 554; United States
v. Harris,106 U. S. 629; Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 699; Allen
v. Georgia, 166 U. S. 137; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 174;
Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 582; Hurtado v. California,110 U. S.
516; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 344; Ex parte Ulrich, 42 Fed.
Rep. 591.
By the common law, which has been adopted by Kentucky,
and by the constitution, statutes and court decisions, when the
life or liberty of the accused is in peril, he not only has the right
to be, but must be, present, during the whole of the trial, at every
step. His presence is not only an inalienable right, but a jurisdictional fact and cannot be waived. It is the duty of the trial
court to see that this right is not violated, otherwise Federal
jurisdiction under the Fourteenth Amendment will attach to
protect said right. 2 Story on Const., § 1791; Hale's Pleas
of the Crown, 33; 3 Bacon's Abridgement, 512; Magna Charta,
ch. 29; Brannon's Fourteenth Amendment, 271; Cooley, Const.
Lim., 7th ed., 452; Underhill, Crim. Ev., 284, §232; Wharton, Crim. P1. & Pr., 8th ed., §§ 540, 545; Schwab v. Berggren,
143 U. S. 442; Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370; Hopt
v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574; Crim. Code Utah, §218; Crim. Code Pr.
(Ky.), § 183; Kentucky Code, §§212-216; State v. Carmen,
63 Iowa, 130; Bishop's New Criminal Procedure, §§ 269, 271;
Dougherty v. Commonwealth, 69 Pa. St. 290; Prinev. Common-

HOWARD v. KENTUCKY.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

wealth, 18 Pa. 103; Rolls v. State, 52 Mississippi, 396; State v.
Smith, 90 Maryland, 37; French v. State, 21 L. R. A. 405; Anderson v. State, 2 Sneed (Tenn.); Witt v. State, 5 Coldwell
(Tenn.), 11; Gladden v. State, 12 Florida, 577; Maurer v. People,
43 N. Y. 1; Hill v. People, 16 Michigan, 351; Schick v. United
States, 195 U. S. 65; West v. Louisiana,194 U. S. 258; Const.
Kentucky, § 233; Criminal Code Pr., § 183; Temple v. Cornmonwealth, 77 Kentucky, 769; Allen v. Commonwealth, 86 Kentucky, 642; Hite v. Commonwealth, 14 Ky. Law Rep. Q08;
Meece v. Commonwealth, 78 Kentucky, 506; Criminal Code,
§§229, 340; Rutherford v. Commonwealth, 78 Kentucky, 040;
Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S. 461;Rogers v. Alabanm', 192
U. S. 226; Willis v. Commonwealth, 86 Kentucky, 68; B. & 0.
R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 371; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 235; Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 135;
Johnson v. Commonwealth, 72 Kentucky, 224.
When the absence of the accused during the trial is shown,
the law presumes that his substantial rights have been prejudiced, and the holding of the Court of Appeals that the record
must affirmatively show that said rights were not prejudiced,
deprived the accused of his liberty without due process of law,
and denied him the equal protection of the law. Meece v. Commonwealth, 78 Kentucky, 586; Rutherford v. Commonwealth, 78
Kentucky, 640; Allen v. Commonwealth, 86 Kentucky, 642;
Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S. 461.
The court, in discharging juror Alexander without cause after
he had been accepted, acted beyond its power, and the Court
of Appeals, in holding that under § 281, Criminal Code, it could
not reverse on account of said error, deprived the accused of his
liberty without due process of law and denied to him the equal
protection of the law. Klingerv. Mllissouri, 13 Wall. 257; Crim.
Code of Pr., §§ 215, 250, 281; Munday v. Commonwealth, 81
Kentucky, 233; Wiggins v. Commonwealth, 104 Kentucky, 766;
Smith v. Commonwealth, 20 Ky. Law Rep. 1848; Colvin v. Commonwealth, 22 Ky. Law Rep., 1408; O'Brian v. Commonwealth,
72 Kentucky, 333; Shelby v. Commonwealth, 91 Kentucky, 566.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

200 U. S.

The Court of Appeals, in holding that under § 281, Crim.
Code Pr., it was without power to revise an error committed by
the trial court, in the manner of the formation or selection of
the trial jury, violated the Fourteenth Amendment, and said
holding deprived the accused of his liberty without due process
of law, and denied to him the equal protection of the law.
Crim. Code Pr., §§ 190-194; Kentucky Statutes, § 2247; Smith
v. Commonwealth, 20 Ky. Law Rep. 1848; Yick Wo v. San
Francisco, 118 U. S. 306.
Mr. N. B. Hays, Attorney General of the State of Kentucky,
with whom Mr. Charles H. Morris was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The Fifth and Sixth Amendments do not apply to a criminal
prosecution in a state court for the infraction of its criminal
laws. United States v. Cruikslzank, 92 U. S. 542; Ex parte
Spies, 123 U. S. 131; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 593; West v. Louisiana,194 U. S. 261.
Under the common law there could be no exception to the
decisions of triers of jurors, and in Kentucky the court is substituted for triers and there can be no review of its action.
Cooley's Blackstone, bk. 3, ch. 23, § 3; §§ 212, 281, Crim. Code
Kentucky; Thompson & Merriam on Juries, § 259; Snow v.
Weeks, 75 Maine, 106; Cooley's Const. Lim., 8th ed., 445, 460;
Hayden v. Commonwealth, 20 Ky. Law Rep. 274.
There was no error in discharging the juror and there was no
abuse of discretion by the trial court. Crim. Code Kentucky,
§ 202; Proffat on Jury Trials, § 194; State v. Adams, 20 Kansas, 689.
The Kentucky Court of Appeals has only appellate jurisdiction to review any error of law which appears on the record,
when upon consideration of the whole case the court is satisfied
that the substantial rights of the defendant have been prejudiced thereby. Constitution, § 110; Crim. Code, § 340.
No objection or exception having been made or taken in the
trial court as to alleged error of the trial court in asking said

HOWARD v. KENTUCKY.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

question in the absence of plaintiff in error, and no error having
been assigned by plaintiff in error in his motion and reasons for
a new trial for the same, there was no error appearing on the
record for review by the Court of Appeals. Rutherford v. Commonwealth, 78 Kentucky, 639; Kennedy v. Commonwealth, 14
Bush, 340; Wilkerson v. Commonwealth, 88 Kentucky, 30; Mcrritt v. Commonwealth, 11 R. 17; Brown v. Commonwealth, 14
Bush, 400; Ellis v. Commonwealth, 9 R. 824; Crockett v. Commonwealth, 10 R. 159; Redmon v. Commonwealth, 82 Kentucky,
335; Vinegar v. Commonwealth, 104 Kentucky, 110; Branson
v. Commonwealth, 92 Kentucky, 333.
The conviction was due process of law; and this question not
having been presented to the trial court, or passed on adversely
to him by it, it was not before the Court of Appeals and as it
was without jurisdiction to consider that question, there is no
Federal question. Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 83; Jacobi v.
Alabama, 187 U. S. 107; Brooks v. Missouri, 124 U. S. 456;
Baldwin v. Kansas, 129 U. S. 641.
Before this court will review any Federal question, the plaintiff in error must have presented it in the highest state court,
and it must have been decided there, adversely to him. Under
section 281 of the Criminal Code the trial court is not only the
highest court, but the only court that could pass on said question. Cases sutpra and Layton v. Missouri, 187 U. S. 214; Tarrance v. Florida,188 U. S. 573.
When the challenge to a juror has been allowed and an impartial juror substituted in his place, the constitutional right
of the accused to a fair and impartial jury has not been impaired. Thompson & fIerriam on Juries, § 251; Reynolds v.
United States, 98 U. S. 247; United States v. Morris, Fed. Cas.
No. 15,815; Hopt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430; Hays v. Missouri,
120 U. S. 71; Ex parte Spies, 123 U. S. 131.
The Federal courts will follow the interpretation and construction given the state statutes by the highest court of the State,
as to rights, privileges and immunities, unless such construction
is violative of the Federal laws. Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

247; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Nobles v. Georgia, 168 U. S.
398; Bergman v. Baecker, 157 U. S.655; Fielden v. Illinois, 143
U. S.452; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172.
As to the consistent construction of §281, Crim. Code, see
Smith v. Commonwealth, 100 Kentucky, 137; Collier v. Commonwealth, 110 Kentucky, 518.
As to what is due process of law within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment, see Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.
516; Anderson v. Henry, 45 W. Va. 319; Kennedy v. Commonwealth, 14 Bush, 340.
MR.JusTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error seeks to review the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, affirming
a conviction and sentence of murder against, him. He was
indicted, with others, for killing one William Goebel. The
grounds of review by this court are based upon certain rulings
of the trial court which, plaintiff in error contends, were repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States.
It appears from the record that eleven jurors, including one
J. C. Alexander, had been accepted by the parties. The Commonwealth had exhausted three of its peremptory challenges,
and plaintiff in error eleven of his-he was given by the statutes
fifteen. At this point the Commonwealth's attorney suggested
that Alexander had formed and expressed an opinion on the
merits of the case, and had improperly conversed with a person,
not a member of the jury, on the subject connected with the
case. The Commonwealth's attorney then made a motion to
discharge Alexander from the jury, in support of which he filed
the following affidavit of one Ben Hackett, who had been excluded as a juror in the case:
"The affiant Ben Hackett says that after the killing of William Goebel he and Mr. J. C. Alexander, who has been accepted
on the jury to try this case, had many conversations and argu-

HOWARD v. KENTUCKY.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

merts about the said killing, this affiant expressing and urging
the opinion that there had been a conspiracy to murder Goebel,
among those who were charged with his murder, and Mr. Alexander expressing and urging the opinion that there had not been
a conspiracy at all to murder him-these arguments and conversations occurred at different times and places in Woodford
County during the time that has elapsed since the murder of
Mr. Goebel-were frequent and much earnest interest and feeling was expressed by both this affiant and Mr. Alexander
therein.
"This affiant further says that on yesterday afternoon late,
after Mr. Alexander had been accepted as a juror to try the case
and after this affiant had been excused, after those accepted as
jurors had been charged and admonished by the court, immediately after adjournment for supper, and as the jury was being
conducted by the sheriff away from the court house, affiant by
accident met the jury as they were passing out through the
court house yard, when in passing Mr. Alexander said to this
affiant, 'Hello, Ben, I am glad they cut you off this jury, as I
did not want to serve on this jury with you.'
"Affiant Ben Hackett says the foregoing statements are true.
"BEN F. HAcIKETT."
(Signed)
The following proceedings were then had as appears from the
order of the court from which we quote:
"It was agreed by counsel on either side that the court might,
in the absence of the defendant and counsel, question the said
Alexander as to the truth of the said statements, contained in
said Hackett's affidavit, that he said to said Hackett while in
the custody of the sheriff, 'Hello, Ben, I am glad they cut you
off of this jury, as I did not want to serve on this jury with you,'
and the said Alexander having admitted the truth of said statement, but claimed the said statement was made in a jocular
way, and the court being of the opinion that such conduct on
the part of said Alexander was a violation of the admonitians
of the court, when he was placed in the custody of the sheriff,
it was ordered and adjudged that said Alexander be, and he is

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

now, excused as a juror in this case, and he is now ordered to
be discharged; and the court being thus advised, overruled defendant's objection and discharged and excused said Alexander,
and defendant by counsel excepts.
"Thereupon defendant moved the court to discharge the entire panel remaining, which was objected to by the attorney for
the Commonwealth, and the court being advised, sustained said
objection, and refused to discharge said entire panel, to which
ruling defendant by counsel excepts."
By these rulings, it is contended, that plaintiff in error was
deprived of due process of law. Error is assigned under the
Fifth, Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution
of the United States.
Plaintiff in error cannot avail himself of the provisions of the
Fifth and Sixth Amendments, for reasons we have so often expressed that it would be the extreme of superfluity to repeat
them. It is enough to say that those amendments do not apply
to proceedings in the state courts. The invocation of the Fourteenth Amendment is attempted to be justified on two grounds:
(1) That the trial court in discharging Alexander acted beyond
its power, and that the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in holding,
that by reason of section 281 of the Criminal Code of the State,
it cannot reverse on account of such error, deprived plaintiff in
error of his liberty without due process of law. (2) By the
common law which has been adopted by Kentucky, and by the
constitution and statutes of the State an accused has not only
the right to be present, but must be present during the whole of
the trial. "His presence is not only an inalienable right, but
a jurisdictional fact and cannot be waived."
The argument of plaintiff in error is very elaborate, but there
is scarcely any phase of it which has not been answered adversely to his contention by decisions of this court.
He seems to make an issue with the Court of Appeals of the
State upon the law of the State, and to contend that the court
erred in the interpretation and application of that law. This
contention encounters the ruling in In re Converse, 137 U. S.

HOWARD v. KENTUCKY.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

624, 631, and other cases, which hold that a "State cannot be
deemed guilty of a violation of its obligations -mder the Constitution of the United States because of a decision, even if
erroneous, of its highest court, while acting within its jurisdiction."
We cannot assume error in the decision of the Court of Appeals. We accept it, as we are bound to do, as a correct exposition of the law of the State-common, statutory and constitutional. Our inquiry can only be, did the state law as applied
afford plaintiff in error due process as those words are used in
the Fourteenth Amendment? We think it did. It is not necessary to enter into a lengthy discussion of what constitutes due
process of law. That has been done in a number of cases and
there is nothing in the present case which calls for a repetition
and an extension of the discussion. It may be admitted that the
words "due process of law," as used in the Fourteenth Amendnient, protect fundamental rights. What those are cannot ever
be the cause of much dispute. In giving them protection, however, it was not designed, as was observed by the Chief Justice
in In. re Converse, supra, "to interfere with the power of the
State to protect the lives, liberty and property of its citizens;
nor with the exercise of that power in the adjudication of the
courts of the State in administering the process provided by the
law of the State." These words are apposite in the present
case. Of what does plaintiff in error complain? The discharge
of a juror before he was sworn and the absence of the plaintiff
in error from the examination of the juror by the presiding
judge. But plaintiff in error consented through his counsel to
the examination, and there is not an intimation that the juror
selected in Alexander's place was not as competent as he. Nor
can we say that the discharge of Alexander took from the other
jurors who had been chosen their competency to try the case
or to give to plaintiff in error the right to a new panel. In
Hayes v. 3Iissonr, 120 U. S. 68, it was said "the accused cannot complain if he is still tried by an impartial jury. He can
demand nothing more. Northcra Pacific Railroad v. Herbert,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

116 1T. S. 642. The right to challenge is the right to reject, not
to select a juror. If from those who remain an impartial jury
is obtained, the constitutional right of the accused is maintained." Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S.172.
In passing on the action of the trial court in examining Alexander in the absence of plaintiff in error the Court of Appeals
said that the court had been compelled to relax the rule prescribed by the statute that "The defendant must be present
and shall remain in custody during trial," and cited Hite v.
Commonwealth, 14 Ky. L. R. 30S; Meece v. Commonwealth, 78
Kentucky, 586. In the first case absence from the court room
by the accused for a few minutes at a time on account of sickness, the trial continuing in his absence, it was held did not
prejudice the substantial rights of the accused.
In Meece v. Commonwealth, upon the jury coming back to the
court room for further instructions, the court made certain alterations in the instructions in absence of the accused but in
the presence of his counsel. It was held not to be error, the
court saying:
"While we recognize the fact that the accused when on trial
for a criminal offense should be present during the entire trial,
and that no evidence should be heard or instructions given or
amended without his presence either before or after the submission of the cause to the jury, still this court is only authorized to reverse in cases where the substantial rights of the accused have been prejudiced in the court below, and in order to
ascertain whether errors have been committed to the prejudice
of the accused, the facts as well as the law of the case should
be considered. While one charged with a criminal offense has
the constitutional right to be tried by a jury, the right of appeal
from the verdict and judgment against him does not exist except by the legislation of the State on the subject, and when
permitting an appeal the lawmaking power has the right to
determine for what cause a reversal may be had."
The Court of Appeals also said, in passing on the contention
of plaintiff in error, based on the examination of Alexander:

HOWARD v. KENTUCKY.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It has also been held by this court that a trial for felony
begins when the jury is sworn. Willis v. Commonwealth, 86
Kentucky, 68. At the time the examination of Alexander took
place and when he was discharged, the jury had not only not
been sworn, but it had not been completed.
"There are many rights, some of them guaranteed by the
constitution, which one charged with crime may not waive, and
should not be permitted by the courts to waive, such as the
right of trial by jury, the right to be heard by himself and counsel, to demand the nature and cause of the accusation against
him, and yet others, the assertion of which may unexpectedly
become necessary for his protection during the progress of the
trial. But we are unwilling to say that one charged with felony,
and being in court as was the appellant, with counsel at hand
ready and competent to advise him of his rights, may not, in
advance of the swearing of the jury, and before he is placed in
jeopardy, consent to a private examination by the court of a
juror against whom complaint had been made, for the purpose
of ascertaining whether he was qualified to retain his place as
one of the jurors to try the case. Nor do we think it is affirmatively shown by the record in this case that any injury resulted
to the substantial rights of the appellant by Alexander's dismissal from the jury."
It is manifest, therefore, that it is the law of Kentucky that
occasional absence of the accused from the trial, from which no
injury results to his substantial rights, is not reversible error.
And we think, in applying that rule to the case at bar, plaintiff
in error was not deprived of due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.
It will be observed that the Court of Appeals also decided
that, even though the exclusion of Alexander had been error, a
reversal of the case was forbidden by section 281 of the Criminal
Code of the State, and cited Curtis v. Commonwealth, 23 Ky.
L. R. 267; Turner v. Commonwealth (not reported); Alderson
v. Commonwealth, 25 Ky. L. R. 32. See also Commonwealth v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

Powers, 114 Kentucky, 237, where section 281 was construed
the same way. The court, in its construction of section 281,
followed the construction established by prior cases, and did not
make a discriminating application of that section against plaintiff in error. He was, therefore, not deprived of the equal protection of the laws.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN,

concurring: The record does not, in

my judgment, show an absence of the due process of law enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, as that Amendment has been interpreted by this
court. For that reason, and without approving all that is said
in the opinion of the court, I concur in the judgment of affirmance.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. DEER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 164. Submitted December 14, 19(5.-Decided January 2. 1906.
Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215, followed to the effect that full faith and
credit must be given to a judgment rendered against, and paid by, defendant as plaintiff's garnishee in a State, other than that in which plaintiff resides, and in which defendant does business and is liable to process
and suit.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Jones for plaintiff in error:
Full faith and credit should have been given by the Alabama courts to th- judicial proceedings of said Florida court.
The garnishment judgment and its payment in Florida constituted a complete defense to the suit in Alabama. The

