OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

laws of the State, as interpreted by the highest court in the
State, gives a joint remedy against master and servant to recover for negligent injuries. This court has repeatedly held
that a separable controversy must be shown upon the face of
the petition or declaration, and that the defendant has no
right to say that an action shall be several which the plaintiff
elects to make joint. (See cases cited in Alabama Great Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, supra.) A State has an unquestionable right by its constitution and laws to regulate actions
for negligence, and where it has provided that the plaintiff in
such cases may proceed jointly or severally against those liable
for the injury, and the plaintiff in due course of law and in
good faith has filed a petition electing to sue for a joint recovery given by the laws of the State, we know of nothing in
the Federal removal statute which will convert such action into
a separable controversy for the purpose of removal, because
of the presence of a non-resident defendant therein properly
joined in the action under the constitution and laws of the
State wherein it is conducting its operations and is duly
served with process.
Judgment affirmed.

ARMOUR PACKING COMPANY v. LACY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 53.

Argued November 8, 1905.-Decided Jauuary 8, 1906.

The construction, by the highest court of a State, that a license tax imposed on meat packing houses was exacted from a foreign corporation
doing both interstate and domestic business only by virtue of the latter,
is not open to review in this court.
The Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to prevent a State from
adjusting its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable ways, or

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. LACY.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

through its undoubted power to impose different taxes upon different
trades and professions; and imposing a license tax on meat packing houses
is not an arbitrary and unreasonable classification which will render the
tax void under the Fourteenth Amendment, as denying the equal protection of the laws. Nor is it a denial of equal protection of the law
because the tax is not imposed on persons not doing a meat packing house
business but selling products thereof, or because it is not imposed on
persons engaged in packing articles of food other than meat.
Where the highest court of the State has so construed the act, a foreign
corporation selling its products in the State, but whose packing establishments are not situated in the State, is not for that reason exempt
from such a license tax.
The court will not interfere with the conclusion expressed by the highest
court of the State that under the provisions of the state constitution a
tax is uniform when it is equal upon all persons belonging to the described
class upon which it is imposed.

THis was "a controversy without action," submitted in accordance with the laws of North Carolina in that behalf, in the
Superior Court of Buncombe County, that State, in which B. R.
Lacy, Treasurer of North Carolina, was plaimtiff, and Armour
Packing Company was defendant.
By the revenue law of North Carolina of March 9, 1903,
Public Laws, N. Car., p. 323, c. 247, it is provided in Schedule B:
"SEC. 26. Defining taxes under this schedule. Taxes in this
schedule shall be imposed as license tax for the privilege of
carrying on the business or doing the act named, and nothing
in this act contained shall be construed to relieve any person
or corporation from the payment of tax as required in the pre"
ceding schedule.
"SEc. 56. Packing houses. Upon every meat packing house
doing business in this State, one hundred dollars for each
county in which said business is carried on."
"SEC. 88. Unless prohibited, county may levy same license tax
as State. In case where a specific license tax is levied for the
privilege of carrying on any business, trade or profession the
county may levy the same tax, and no more: Provided, no provision to the contrary is made in the section levying the specific license tax."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

Section 107 of chapter 251 of Public Laws of 1903 (p. 407),
reads:
"SEc. 107. State Treasurer to sue for taxes. Upon failure to
pay to the State Treasurer within thirty days after the same
shall have become due, any tax which by law is made payable
direct to the State Treasurer, it shall be his duty to institute
an action to enforce the same in the county of Wake, or in the
county in which the property taxed is located."
The third section of article V of the constitution of North
Carolina provides:
"Laws shall be passed taxing, by uniform rule, all moneys,
credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies,
or otherwise; . . . The general assembly may also tax
trades, professions, franchises, and incomes,
It appeared from the facts agreed, as in substance stated by
the Supreme Court of North Carolina, that the Armour Packing Company was incorporated in New Jersey, but has its
principal office and place of business in Kansas, that business
being "a meat packing house business," and that it has property in North Carolina; that "a meat packing house is a place
where the business of slaughtering animals and dressing and
preparing the products of their carcasses for food and other
purposes is carried on. The products thus prepared consist
of fresh and cured meats, such as hams, dry salt sides, bacon,
lard, beef extracts, glue, blood, tankage, etc." That the Armour Packing Company "does not anywhere within the State
of North Carolina slaughter, dress, cure, pack or manufacture
any products hereinbefore set forth, of any animal, for food,
or for commercial use, or for other purposes;" but that after
the animals are slaughtered, dressed and prepared for food or
other commercial purposes in Kansas, such product is shipped
in bulk to Wilmington, Greensboro, Asheville, Charlotte and
Fayetteville, N. C., where the company has cold storage plants
and warehouses, and sold from such storage plants, some of
such product to parties in North Carolina and some to parties
outside of that State; that part of said products shipped to

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. LACY.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the cold storage warehouse in Asheville, Buncombe County,
remain there until disposed of in due course of trade on orders
taken and received after said products have been stored or
placed in said warehouse or cold storage plants. At each of
said five points in North Carolina, where the company maintains a warehouse and cold storage plants, it has one or more
employ~s, i. e., bookkeepers, stenographers, shipping clerks,
salesmen, drivers, laborers who box said meats and who wrap
and crate goods for delivery as they are sold. There are in
Wilmington and other cities of said State commission merchants, brokers and butchers who sell by wholesale and retail
in competition with the Armour Packing Company, who are
not engaged in a meat packing-house business in North Carolina or elsewhere, fresh, cured and salt meats and other products that have been manufactured from the carcasses of
slaughtered animals for food and commercial purposes, and
under the laws of North Carolina said commission merchants,
brokers and butchers are not amenable to the tax levied under
section 56 of said revenue act of 1903. At all points in North
Carolina where the Armour Packing Company is engaged in
business, and at various other places in said State, there are
engaged in business, as the Armour Packing Company is engaged, packing houses which pack articles of food other than
meat and offer them for sale in said State, such as peas, beans,
tomatoes, corn, pumpkins, fruit, fish, oysters, etc. The products of said packing houses are articles of food and commerce
and are sold in the State of North Carolina through agents,
brokers, wholesale and retail merchants, just as the products
packed by the Armour Packing Company are sold.
The ruling of the courtwas invoked on certain points stated, all
of which were adjudged adversely to defendant, and judgment
was rendered against it for the tax and costs, which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of North Carolina. 134 N. Car. 567.
Mr. Thomas B. Felder, Jr.for plaintiff in error:
Corporations are persons within the provisions of the Four-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

teenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Ry., 118 U. S. 394;
Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181, 189; Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Minn. & St. L. Ry.
v. Herrick, 127 U. S. 210; Minn. & St. L. Ry. v. Beckwith, 129
U. S. 26; Charlotte & Col. R. R. v. Gibbs, 142 U. S. 386; Turnpike Co. v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578.
A State has no more power to deny to corporations the equal
protection of the law than it has to individual citizens. Gulf,
Col. & S. F. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 154.
A tax on the privilege of selling goods is in effect a tax on
the goods themselves. 117 Georgia, 969; Welton v. Missouri,
91 U. S. 275; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419.
What must constitute a denial of the equal protection of
the law, will depend in this view, in a large measure upon what
rights have been guaranteed under the constitution of the State.
N. C. & St. L. Ry. v. Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 186.
Uniformity in taxation has been guaranteed by the constitution and laws of North Carolina. See 2 Code of 1883, 706;
State v. Moore, 113 N. Car. 697; Worth v. Railroad Co., 89
N. Car. 291; Pruittv. Commissioners, 94 N. Car. 709; Railroad
Tax Case, 92 U. S. 575; State v. Powell, 100 N. Car. 525;
Tiedeman Lim. of Police Power 1, 101; Cooley Taxation, 403;
Re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Cooley Const. Lim. 201, 494, 574; Kansas City v. Crush, 151 issouri, 135; St. Louis v. Sternberg, 69
Missouri, 289; St. Louis v. Speigel, 75 Missouri, 145; Dillon
Mun. Corp., ยง768; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418.
There must be no discrimination between members of a
class. Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 606; Grozza v.
Turnan, 148 U. S. 662. The States have the power of classification subject to rule that classification must not be arbitrary
or on unreasonable grounds. Magoun v. Illinois Trust Co.,
170 U. S. 298; Atchison Railway v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 156;
Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, distinguished.
The act is a burden on interstate commerce. Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 171.

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. LACY.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Robert D. Gilmer, Attorney General of the State of
North Carolina, for defendant in error:
The Supreme Court of North Carolina has declared that the
statute applies solely to business within North Carolina, and
that it does not apply to or affect any interstate business; the
statute does not violate the commerce clause of the Constitution. The act does not contravene the constitution of the
State, sec. 3, art. V of the constitution of North Carolina, that
taxation shall be by uniform rule ad valorem applies only to
the tax upon property, for it also provides that the General
Assembly may also tax trades without any requirement of uniformity as to the latter. Gatlin v. Tarboro, 78 N. Car. 119.
A tax on trades is uniform when it is equal upon all persons
belonging to the described class upon which it is imposed.
Burroughs on Taxation, ยง77; State v. Stevenson, 109 N. Car. 730.
The legislature possesses the power to classify occupations
by statutory enactment, and classification in tax statutes will
not contravene the rule of uniformity when the tax is imposed alike upon all of a class. Albertson v. Wallace, 81 N. Car.
479; State v. Cohen, 84 N. Car. 771; State v. Powell, 100
N. Car. 525; State v. French, 109 N. Car. 722; Cobb v. Commissioners, 122 N. Car. 307; State v. Green, 126 N. Car. 1032;
State v. Carter,129 N. Car. 560; State v. Hunt, 129 N. Car. 686;
State v. Roberson, 136 N. Car. 587.
The General Assembly had the power to create as a classification for taxation "meat packing houses" as a separate and
distinct class. Ford v. State, 112 Indiana, 373, 378; Stewart
v. Atlanta Beef Co., 93 Georgia, 12; Stewart v. Kehrer, 115
Georgia, 184.
The decision of the state court that the act does not contravene the constitution of North Carolina is conclusive. Duncan
v. McCall, 139 U. S. 449; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462;
O'Neill v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 323; McATulty v. California, 149
U. S. 645;.Lambert v. Barrett, 157 U. S. 697; Bergemann v.
Backer, 157 U. S. 655; Kohl v Lehlbach, 160 U. S. 293; Howard
v. Fleming, 191 U. S. 126.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

200 U. S.

The act does not deny the plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws.
While a foreign corporation may sell its goods in a State or
solicit sales in the transaction of interstate commerce as a
right, it can only establish itself in a State and do business
therein as a privilege granted by the State. Paul v. Virginia,
8 Wall. 177. The whole matter rests with the State. It may
absolutely exclude a corporation organized in another State.
Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404; Bank of Augusta v.
Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S.
28; Cable v. Life Ins. Co., 191 U. S. 288, 307.
While this court has declared that taxes imposed for revenue
should be equal, and that there should be no discrimination,
it has not decided that provisions for equality are applicable
to license taxes. Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232; Cotting v. Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Connolly
v. Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540 distinguished; and see also as
to extent to which classification by legislative enactment has
been upheld, Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452; Savannah
Ry. Co. v. Savannah, 198 U. S. 392; Kidd v. Alabama, 188
U. S. 730.
Assuming that uniformity and equality are applicable to a
license tax, the act is valid as the tax is levied upon every
packing house doing business in the State, whether domestic
or foreign meat packing houses. The principle of uniformity
and of "the equal protection of the laws" secured by the Fourteenth Amendment are not violated so long as the tax rests
alike upon all persons or corporations belonging to the particulax class as classified by legislative enactment. Gulf, Col. &
Santa F Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, and cases cited, p. 155.
There is no denial of the equal protection of the laws to the
plaintiff, inasmuch as it is amenable, and parties who sell -packing house products by wholesale and retail are not, because
those parties are not doing, either in North Carolina or elsewhere, a packing house business, and are therefore not embraced within the terms of the statute.

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. LACY.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A statute is not void as denying the equal protection of the
laws to meat packing houses because packing houses confined
to articles other than meat are not amenable to the same tax.
Cook v. Marshall Cozinty, 191 U. S.261, 275.
The Armour Packing Company is exercising in North Carolina some of the functions for which the corporation was
created, and is therefore doing a packing-house business in
North Carolina. Stewart v. Kehrer, 115 Georgia, 184, 1SS.
With the disposition of state questions by the appropriate
state authorities it is not the province of this court to interfere. Lambert v. Barrett, 157 U. S. 698.
CHIEF JusTmcD FULLER, after making the foregoing
nir.
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The Supreme Court of North Carolina stated the contentions
of the Armour Packing Company thus:
"1. That it is not engaged in doing a packing-house business
in this State; . . . 2. That the tax is an interference with
interstate commerce; 3. That the tax contravenes section three
of article V of the constitution of North Carolina, which requires that taxation be 'by uniform rules;' 4. That the tax is
forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States; 5. That singling out 'meat packing
houses' is arbitrary or class legislation, and prohibited by both
State and Federal Constitutions."
The court said:
"If the business of the defendant was solely that of shipping
food products into this State, consigned directly to purchasers
on orders previously obtained, it is clear that this would be
interstate commerce and a tax laid by the State upon such
business would be illegal. But the defendant does a large business within the State, the selling of products already stored
here on orders received after these products are thus stored.
The tax is laid upon every meat packing house 'doing business
in this State.' The evident meaning of the legislature is to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

tax the agency 'doing business within this State', and not to
lay any tax upon the interstate commerce of shipping products
into the State to be directly or indirectly delivered to purchasers whose orders were obtained before the goods were
shipped."
And, after recapitulating from the agreed statement the particulars of the business transacted in North Carolina, the court
applied the rule that the legislature could prescribe such conditions as it saw fit on the transaction of business by a foreign
corporation within the State, and held that the license tax was
the condition upon which defendant was permitted to do the
business so described; and cited Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S.
650, as decisive on the question that the license tax applied
only to business within the State and not to that which was
interstate in its character; and added: "The defendant doing
business in this State and the license tax being exacted only by
virtue of its intrastate business, the first two grounds of objection are overruled."
As was said in Osborne v. Flarida, this construction of a
state statute by its highest court is not open to review; and
accepting it the case plainly comes within Kehrer v. Stewart,
197 U. S. 60. That was a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Georgia (117 Georgia, 969; 115 Georgia, 184), involving
the constitutionality of a statute imposing a tax upon packing
house agents and the liability of an agent of Nelson Morris &
Company, a meat packing firm of Chicago, to pay it. It was
contended that Morris & Company did not slaughter, dress,
cure, pack or manufacture the products of animals for food
anywhere in the State of Georgia, and that therefore the firm
was not doing a packing-house business within the State; that
the statute violated the commerce clause of the Constitution,
and that it was invalid in that it denied the equal protection
of the laws. These contentions were overruled by the Supreme
Court of Georgia and this court affirmed the judgment. And
among other things it was there said:
"The act in question does not deny to the petitioner the

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. LACY.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

equal protection of the laws, as the tax is imposed alike upon
the managing agent both of domestic and of foreign houses.
There is no discrimination in favor of the agents of
domestic houses, and, while we may suspect that the act was
primarily intended to apply to agents of ultra state houses,
there is no discrimination upon the face of the act, and none,
so far as the record shows, upon its practical administration.
As we have frequently held, the State has the right to classify
occupations and to impose different taxes upon different occupations. Such has been constantly the practice of Congress
under the internal revenue laws. Cook v. Marshal County,
196 U. S.261, 275. What the necessity is for such tax, and
upon what occupations it shall be imposed, as well as the
amount of the imposition, are exclusively within the control
of the state legislature. So long as there is no discrimination
against citizens of other States, the amount and necessity of
the tax are 'not open to criticism here." 197 U. S.69.
This practically disposes of the fourth and fifth contentions,
since the classification of meat packing houses cannot be said
to be an arbitrary selection or not to rest on reasonable grounds,
and the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to prevent
a State from adjusting its system of taxation in all proper and
reasonable ways, or through the undoubted power of classification to impose different taxes upon different trades and professions.
"A tax may be imposed only upon certain callings and
trades, for when the State exerts its power to tax, it is not
bound to tax all pursuits or all property that may be legitimately taxed for governmental purposes. It would be an intolerable burden if a State could not tax any property or
calling unless, at the same time, it taxed all property or all
callings." Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Company, 184 U. S.

540, 562.
And see Cargill Company v. Minnesota, 180 U. S.452; Kidd
v. Alabama, 188 U. S.730; Savannah, Thunderbolt &c. Ry. Co.
v. Savannah, 198 U. S.392; Minnesota Iron Company v. Kline,

OCTOBER TERMl,
BROWw and P1ECKH,

1905.

JJ., dissenting.

200 U. S.

199 U. S. 593; Cable v. United States Life Insurance Company,
191 U. S. 288, 307.
By the act under consideration the tax is levied upon every
packing house doing business in the State, which includes by
its terms both domestic and foreign meat packing-houses. It
is true that it appears that where the Armour Packing Company does business certain persons sell both by wholesale and
retail packing-house products, and yet are not subjected to
this tax, but also that those parties are not doing either in
North Carolina or elsewhere a packing house business. And
so it appears that in North Carolina, at the points where the
Armour Packing Company is engaged in business, and at other
places in the State, there are establishments engaged in business, which pack articles of food other than meats, such as
peas, beans, pumpkins, etc., and offer them for sale; but
we cannot accept the suggestion that the statute is void as
denying the equal protection of the laws to meat packinghouses because houses packing vegetables and the like are not
included in the same classification and subject to the same
tax.
As to the contention that the act is in violation of section 3
of article V of the state constitution, the state Supreme Court
held that this tax, although not a property or ad valorem tax,
was controlled, even if the requirement of uniformity were
applicable, by the rule that "a tax is uniform when it is equal
upon all persons belonging to the described class upon which
it is imposed." And with that conclusion it is not our province, nor are we disposed, to interfere.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

with whom was MR. JusTIcE PECK-

HAM, dissenting.

The main, and practically the only question in this case is
whether the Armour Packing Company was a "meat packing
house doing business" in the State of North Carolina within

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. LACY.
200 U. S.

BRowx and PEcKmiA,

JJ., dissenting.

the meaning of the statute. The seventh and eighth items of
the stipulation of facts are as follows:
"7. A meat packing house is a place where the business of
slaughtering animals and dressing and preparing the products
of their carcasses for food and other purposes is carried on.
The products thus prepared consist of fresh and cured meats,
such as hams, dry salt sides, bacon, lard, beef extracts, glue,
blood, tankage, etc.
"8. Said Armour Packing Company does not anywhere
within the State of North Caroling slaughter, dress, cure, pack
or manufacture any products hereinbefore set forth, of any
animal, for food, or for commercial use, or for other purposes."
As one article of the findings defines the meat packing business to consist in doing certain things, and the very next article declares that none of these things are done within the
State, it is difficult to say that, notwithstanding these findings
of fact, there is a conclusion of law that the company is doing
a meat packing business in that State. The Packing Company
doubtless falls within the letter of the statute. It does a meat
packing business in Kansas City. It does a business in North
Carolina. But as we have said in numerous cases, a thing may
be within the letter of a statute and not be within its spirit.
United States v. Babbitt, I Black, 55. The letter of the statute
in this case would be satisfied if the Packing Company did a
furniture or dry goods business in North Carolina, yet it would
clearly not be within the intent of the statute If, for instance,
the tax were upon breweries, and the beer were all manufactured out of the State and then shipped into the State for sale
and distribution, is it possible that the defendant would be
liable for doing business as a brewer? So if the tax were imposed upon manufacturers of carriages, and all the manufacturing were done in Chicago, and the carriages shipped into
North Carolina and there sold, the defendant would be liable
as a dealer in carriages, but certainly not as a manufacturer.
The business done at the five cold storage plants, which consists in packing the meats and wrapping them for delivery as

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHrrE and McKxNkA, JJ., dissenting.

200 U. S.

they are sold, is not mentioned in the seventh finding, even
as an incidental part of the packing business. Much less even
is the business of selling meats at retail as ordinary butchers
do. Yet, in the opinion of the court, the company was doing
a meat packing-house business within the State. In the view
of the minority the business done-within the State must be a
meat packing business, and not the business of selling meats
either at wholesale or retail, and when the meat packing house
is accurately defined in the stipulation, and no part of the
business thus defined appears to have been done within the
State, it is impossible to support the tax.
The case resembles that of Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60,
in many particulars, but with the vital difference that the law
of Georgia imposed a tax upon "all agents of packing houses
doing business within this State, $200, in each county where
said business is carried on." As the tax was imposed upon
agents of packing houses, and not upon the packing houses
themselves, the court was unanimously of the opinion that the
managing agents of foreign packing houses were subject to
the tax. But in this case the act attempts to reach out and
tax packing houses doing business as such exclusively in another State.
With the utmost deference to the opinion of the court, we
are constrained to dissent from its view.
MR. JUSTIC]E WHITE and MR. JusTIcE

sented upon other grounds.

McKENNA also dis-

