UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
200 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

ings not inconsistent with our opinion. Stanley v. Schwalby,
162 U. S. 255, 282. Why should it be compelled to pay two
or three hundred dollars in costs when it has shown that the
decision below placed an improper charge upon it, the amount
of which is not disclosed and which may be a very substantial
sum?
I am, therefore, constrained to dissent from both the opinion
and judgment.

UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 359. Argued January 9, 10, 190.-Decided March 5, 1906.
The rule that this court will not disturb findings of fact where both the
Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals have concurred should
not be departed from except in a very clear case, especially when those
findings are against a charge of fraud in an effort to overthrow a patent
of the United States.
In order to overthrow a patent on charges of fraud on the part of the entryman, and knowledge thereof on the part of a purchaser, the proof must
be clear and fraud or knowledge of fraud in the entry will not be inferred
from a merely suspicious circumstance; the purchaser is not bound to
hunt for grounds of doubt. United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co.,
ante, p. 321 followed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marsden C. Burch and Mr. Fred A. Maynard, Special
Assistant United States Attorneys, with whom The Solicitor
General was on the brief, for the United States:
In this case the fact is established that the sole purpose which
induced each one of the entrymen and entrywomen named in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

200 U

S.

the bill of complaint to take up a timber claim was that they
might sell it to Cobban and receive from him $100. The quality of the land and quantity of the timber thereon were immaterial. They were taken to the land, and told to enter it, and
when they obtained the receiver's receipt they could sell it and
get a hundred dollars.
When land is taken up under such circumstances, title thereto
is acquired contrary to the oath prescribed in the timber and
stone act. Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476. See also S. C., 17
L. D. 468. See Diller v. Hawley, 48 U. S. App. 462.
In United States v. Detroit Timber & Dumber Company, 131
Fed. Rep. 668, the court finds that tie speculative clause of the
act was violated.
All the entrymen also violated the "prior-agreement" clause
of the act, and thus the case falls within the rule in United
States v. Budd, 144 U. S. 154.
A man cannot be a bona fide purchaser before patent. Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476. The courts below have thus far held
that under some circumstances he can be.
It is agreed, before patent issues, the guilty entryman, and
the innocent purchaser from him, forfeit all moneys paid for
lands, and all right to both land and money, if officers of the
Interior Department, on ascertaining the entryman's fraud,
take proper steps to annul the receiver's receipt.
It is agreed, after patent, if the guilty entryman has not sold,
he also forfeits money and land, if, ascertaining the fraud, the
Government proceeds, in equity, to annul the patent and fraud
is completely established.
Appellant contends that the innocent purchaser from a guilty
entryman, before patent, stands in his shoes from beginning to
end; he can buy no more than the entryman has to sell; with
the guilty entryman he falls before patent or after, at any time
within the statute of limitations, Comp. Stat. U. S. 1521, because the entryman has neither a valuable equitable title by the
receiver's receipt nor title by the patent.
The courts below, holding against the Government, admit

UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
200 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

that entryman and purchaser are as one before patent, but also
hold that the moment patent issues they part company, and
from that time, while the Government can file its bill to avoid
the patent if still owned by the guilty entryman, it can not do
so if prior to patent he has sold to an innocent purchaser, and
in so doing have misconstrued Hawley v. Diller, supra.
The judicial department has the same authority, after patent
has issued, within the period of limitations, until the land is
purchased by a bona fide purchaser, and the guilty entryman
and his assignee can be reached as well after as before patent.
The Government still has power to protect itself from fraud
and perjury, but the forum alone is changed. As to the law
governing the receiver's receipt, as declared by this court, see
Myers v. Croft, 13 Wall. 291; Parsons v. Verzke, 164 U. S. 89;
Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372; Guaranty Savings Bank
v. Bladow, 176 U. S. 448, 454; Thayer v. Spratt, 189 U. S. 350;
United States v. Steenerson, 50 Fed. Rep. 507.
The decree of the lower courts failed to recognize this continuing power of the Government, in deciding that simply because, by issue of patent, the officers of the Land Department
lost jurisdiction, all power to undo the fraud was gone.
The true rule is, that the courts acquire jurisdiction the moment the Interior Department loses it. Peyton v. Desmond
(C. C. A.), 129 Fed. Rep. 1, citing Knight v. United States Land
Association, 142 U. S. 161.
There is no legal reason why Clark, who would have sustained
a total loss in case the frauds had been discovered an hour before patents issued, holds an unassailable title eo instanti on the
issuing of patents, and thereby has become a bona fide purchaser.
This court has repeatedly decided that in case the entryman
defrauds the Government he can be proceeded against as well
after patent has issued as before. United States v. Iron Silver
Mining Co., 128 U. S. 673.
Absence of notice of fraud is an indispensable element of the
defense of a bona fide purchase. It is impossible for a purchaser

OCTOBER TERAM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

200 U. S.

of the receipt to make this defense because by law he is charged
with notice. As patent has not issued, he knows that he cannot
buy the legal title; that the voidable contract may be avoided
and therefore caveat emptor applies. Knowledge of the law is
conclusively presumed. In all cases of statutory forfeitures
ensuing from acts done or omitted, an innocent purchaser without notice cannot claim precedence of the title of the United
States. United States v. Grundy, 3 Cranch, 338; United States
v. 1,960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; DistilledSpirits,11 Wall.
356. See also Wilson v. Wall, 6 Wall. 83; Pomeroy Eq. Jur.
§§ 753, 762.
Appellee, before purchasing these lands, knew all the provisions of the law and the consequences if there was any violation
thereof by himself or the entrymen.
He took his chances, and cannot now escape the loss, the risk
of which he deliberately assumed. Such a person has no equity
the courts can recognize.
Mr. Walter M. Bickford and Mr. George F. 87elton for
appellee:
The defense of bona fide purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice was available to the defendant. This defense was absolute and precluded a recovery by the Government for the reason that prior to the commencement of suit
patents had issued from the Government for said lands, and the
full legal title to the same had vested in the defendant. United
States v. Stinson, 197 U. S. 200, 204. The case of Hawley v.
Diller does not sustain the position of the Government. On
the contrary, the principle is therein recognized that when patent has issued, and the legal title has vested in the grantee of
the Government, or his successors, the Government must
seek redress, the same as any other litigant, in a court of
equity.
The fact that the defendant at the time of purchasing the
lands in question, obtained only an equitable title, did not debar

UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
200 U.S.

Argument for Appellee.

him from availing himself of the plea of a bona fide purchaser,
because the legal title at the time of the commencement of the
suit vested in him, and'he was the owner of the full legal title
as well as of the equitable title at said time; and, as a consequence, the strict requirements of the law for the successful
interposition of the plea of a bona fide purchaser had been fulfilled. Pomeroy Eq. Jur. §§ 417, 740; Fitzsimmons v. Ogden,
7 Cranch, 2; Tlwrndike v. Hunt, 3 De G. & J. 563; Newton v.
McLean, 41 Barb. 287; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 209; Hoult v.
Donahue,21 W. Va. 300; Basset v. Noswontry, 2 Lead. Cas. Eq.
1; Knobloch v. Mueler, 123 Illinois, 554; United States v. California Land Co., 148 U. S. 31.
The fraud charged in the bill of complaint as against the entrymen was not such a fraud as prevented the passing of the
legal title by the patents, and the patents conveyed the
legal title. Colorado Coal Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 313;
United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 131 Fed. Rep.
668.
Until issuance of the patent the Government may, through
the Interior Department, hold the entry for cancelation, and
take proceedings to that end upon notice to the parties interested; but when the patent issued, it took effect as of the date
of the inception of proceedings to enter the land. The patent
having issued to the respective entrymen, it became conclusive
of their right, and inured to defendant's benefit and related back
to the date of the inception of proceedings to enter the land.
The patent is conclusive that the Land Department had jurisdiction and that all the steps requisite and necessary to that end
had been taken, and the adjudication of the land office is conclusively presumed from the issuance of the patent. Silver
Bow 111. & M. Co. v. Clark, 5 Montana, 424; Morgan v. Daniels,
153 U. S. 124; Widdicombe v. Childers, 124 U. S. 405; Shanklin
v. MciNamara, 87 California, 378; United States v. Land Company, 148 U. S. 44; Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S. 575; Johnson
v. Townsley, 13 Wall. 72; Smelting Company v. Kemp, 104 U. S.
636; Minter v. Crommelin, 18 How. 87; United States v. Amer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

ican Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S. 240; UnitedStates v. Detroit Timber
& Land Co., supra.
The charges of fraud and illegality in the bill of complaint
filed in this case against the entrymen named are wholly unsustained by the proof.
The defendant was an innocent purchaser of the lands, and
took title to the same without any notice whatever of the alleged fraudulent and illegal acts of the entrymen named in the
bill. He was not bound to make inquiries unless his suspicions
were aroused. United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co.,
supra; Jones v. Simpson, 116 U. S. 609; Wilson v. Wall, 6
Wall. 83; Meehan v. Williams, 48 Pa. St. 238.
To annul a patent and destroy the title claimed under it the
facts must be clearly proved by evidence entirely satisfactory
to the court. Maxwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 378; Colorado Coal Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307; United States v.
San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273; United States v. Des Moines
&c. Co., 142 U. S. 510.
MR. JusTicE HOLmES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill for the cancelation of eighty patents for timber
lands in Montana, now owned by the defendant, on the ground
that the patentees did not purchase the same in good faith for
their own exclusive use and benefit, but for speculation and
under agreement by which their title should enure to the benefit
of another, and that the defendant knew the facts in a general
way, if not in detail. Act of June 3, 1878, c. 151, § 2, 20 Stat.
89; extended to all public land States by act of August 4, 1892,
c. 375, § 2, 27 Stat. 348. The defendant pleaded that he was a
bona fide purchaser, excepted as such from the invalidation of
the patents by the act, and denied the material allegations
of the bill. Voluminous evidence was taken, and at the hearing
the bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court. 125 Fed. Rep. 774.
That court found that Clark had no actual knowledge of the
alleged frauds or of facts sufficient to put him on inquiry, 125

UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 776, 777, and, considering the requirement of clear
proof according to the statement of this court in the Maxwell
Land-Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 381, further was of opinion that
the original frauds alleged were not made out. The Circuit
Court of Appeals, in view of the pendency of indictments, did
not discuss the alleged original frauds, but, assuming for the
purposes of decision that they had been committed, confirmed
the findings of the Circuit Court with regard to Clark. One
judge dissented on the ground that Clark knew enough to be put
upon inquiry. 138 Fed. Rep. 294. The United States then
appealed to this court.
The bill proceeds upon the footing that Clark has the legal
title to the lands in question. The entrymen conveyed to one
Cobban, the alleged partner in their frauds, and Cobban conveyed to Clark, all by warranty deeds. It is true that they
conveyed before the patents issued, shortly after obtaining the
receiver's receipt, but it is assumed that the legal title, when
created, followed the deeds. We make the same assumption.
Landes v. Brant, 10 How. 348; Bush v. Cooper, 18 How. 82;
Myers v. Croft, 13 Wall. 291; United States v. Detroit Timber
& Lumber Co., 200 U. S.322. See, further, Ayer v. Philadelphia
& Boston Face Brick Co., 159 Massachusetts, 84. But the position is that Clark is privy to the original frauds, and that, even
if he is not, inasmuch as he did not purchase on the faith of the
patents, he has no better title than the entrymen would have
had if the title had remained in them. No distinction is attempted on the ground that the deeds as well as the bargain
preceded the patents.
We may assume for the purposes of decision, as did the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the original frauds are made out,
although there is a great amount of testimony to good faith.
But the point of law just stated has been disposed of by United
States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321. The
United States is attempting to upset a legal title. In order to
do that it must charge Clark with notice of the original frauds.
The fact that Clark, while he had a merely equitable or per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

sonal claim against the Government, held it subject to any defect which it might have, whether he knew it or not, as generally is the case with regard to assigned contracts not negotiable,
wds not equivalent to actual notice of the defect. It is recognized in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, §7, 26 Stat. 1095, 1098,
that there may be a bona fide purchaser before a patent issues.
The title when conveyed related back to the date of the orginal
entries. Therefore actual notice must be proved.
But so far as actual knowledge or notice on the part of Clark
is concerned, both of the courts below found in explicit terms
that the proof failed. We perceive no sufficient reason for departing from the rule that, except in a very clear case, where
both courts have concurred we do not disturb their findings of
fact. United States v. Stinson, 197 U. S. 200, 207; The Germanic, 196 U. S. 589, 595. If ever this rule is to be applied,
it should be when those findings are against a charge of fraud
and when the effort is to overthrow a patent of the United
States. The requirement that the proof should be clear in such
a case has been repeated in a series of decisions from the Maxwell Land-GrantCase, 121 U. S. 325, to United States v. Stinson,
197 U. S. 200, 204. There is nothing suficient to show that
Clark had actual knowledge of the arrangement by which Cobban got the lands. The allegation that Cobban was Clark's
agent in the purchase wholly breaks down. Clark was at a
distance. He dealt as a purchaser with Cobban, and paid him
the market price, and a substantial profit even on the Government's calculation. So far as any inference was to be drawn
from the nearness of the respective dates of the receiver's receipts, the deeds of the entrymen to Cobban and the deeds of
Cobban to Clark, it was as open to the officers of the Government as to Clark, if indeed he knew anything about those dates,
yet they seem to have suspected nothing, and he was advised
by reputable counsel that the titles were good, and bought only
on his advice. Clark, his agents and advisers, testify that they
did not know or suspect anything wrong.
With regard to constructive notice in addition to the facts

UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

just mentioned the Government relies on an argument that
Cobban began negotiations with Clark before he had acquired
title to the lands, not, however, identifying those lands. Assuming tlis to be true, it requires Clark to have kept that fact
in mind when the conveyances were made to him, and noticing
the date of the conveyances to Cobban, and of the receiver's
receipts, to infer that the negotiations were begun upon a
scheme to get the lands from the Government by fraud. It
requires an actual and not necessary inference from knowledge,
with which Clark may have been chargeable, but which he
probably, or at least possibly, did not actually possess. It is
argued further that Clark's inspector must have gone upon the
land about the time of the entries in order to do the necessary
work of estimating the timber. If, for the purposes of argument, we assume that knowledge of a timber inspector of facts
affecting the title, with which he had nothing to do, was chargeable to Clark, still the knowledge is a mere guess. There was
nothing present or required to be present on the face of the
earth to indicate when the entry took place. We cannot infer
fraud merely from more or less familiar relations between some
of Clark's agents and Cobban. When suspicion is suggested it
easily is entertained. But, bearing in mind, as was said in
United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., supra, that
Clark was not bound to hunt for grounds of doubt, and recurring to the canons of proof laid down by the decisions, and to
the findings of the courts below, we are of opinion that the decree dismissing the bill must be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.
IR. JUSTICE MCKUNA concurs on the law on the authority

of United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., and concurs
on the facts.
MR. JUsTIcE HARLNI

VoL

cO-39

and MR. JusTICE BRoWN dissent.

