GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

hereinbefore stated. In other respects the judgment of the
Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
This disposes of the appeals in Nos. 89 and 90, which were
taken from the last and final decree in the Court of Appeals.
The appeal in No. 439 was taken from the decree of the Court
of Appeals remanding the case to the Supreme Court, which
was not final, and is therefore dismissed. The other appeals
raise all the questions made in the case.

GUNTER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA, v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL, FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 58.

Argued December 1, 4, 1905.-Decided January 15, 1906.

A suit against state officers to enjoin them from enforcing a tax alleged to
be in violation of the Constitution of the United States is not a suit against
a State within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment.
While a State may not, without its consent, be sued in a Circuit Court of
the United States, such immunity may be waived; and if it voluntarily
becomes a party to a cause and submits its rights for judicial determination it will be bound thereby.
An appearance "for and on behalf of the State" by the Attorney General,
pursuant to statutory provisions, in an action brought against county
officers, but affecting state revenues, in this case amounted to a waiver
by the State of -its immunity from suit; 'and such immunity could not
be invoked in an ancillary suit subsequently brought against the successors of the original defendants to enforce the decree.
A decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, having jurisdiction of
the cause and in which the State appeared, that a charter exemption
existed in favor of a railroad company by virtue of a contract within the
meaning of the impairment of obligation clause of the Federal Constitution is binding upon the State as to the existence and effect of the contract during the period of exemption, and the rule that a decree enjoining
the collection of a tax is not res judicata as to the right to collect for a
subsequent year does not apply.
Neither the Eleventh Amendment nor ยง 720, Rev. Stat. control a court of
VOL. cc-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

the United States in administering relief where it is acting in a matter
ancillary to a decree, rendered in a cause over which it had jurisdiction;
nor is a Circuit Court debarred from enforcing its decree by ancillary suit
in equity restraining improper prosecutions of actions in the state courts
because there is an adequate remedy at law by interposing defenses in
those actions.
The rule that the collection of a tax should not be enjoined unless the
amount admitted to be due is tendered does not apply where the amount
due is for a period not covered by the injunction or affected by the decree.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. F. Stevenson for plaintiff in error:
Conferring the powers, rights and privileges of the Northeastern Railroad Co., upon the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Co. did not confer an exemption from taxation enjoyed
by the former on the latter. Phcenix Ins. Co. v. Teinnessee, 161
U. S. 171, and cases cited; Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527.
The consideration for the alleged contract, to wit, the building of the road in pursuance of the same, being now admitted
to be a myth, the exemption if granted, was a gratuity and
was repealed by the constitution of 1868, and as only litigated
questionsare res Judicatain a subsequent suit on the new cause
of action, and as the consideration of the contract and its existence was not contested in the Pegues case, we are at liberty
to make these questions. There can be no contract without a
consideration and in this case there was no consideration. See
Cooley Const. Lim. ยง 149, 335; Wisconsin R. R. Co. v. Supervisors, 93 U. S. 595; Newton v. Commissioners, 100 U. S. 548.
If there was an exemption it was a mere gratuity which could
be revoked at any time. Section 1, art. ix and ยง 2, art. xii,
Const. 1868, S. Car.; Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454.
As to res adjudicata,Humphrey v. Pcgm7s, 16 Wall. 244, decided only one question, that the act conferred all privileges
held by the Northeastern under the acts of 1851 and 1855.
The questions in this case were not litigated. The road was
not built pursuant to the exemption and therefore there was no
contract and the exemption is repealable. The word "privileges" in a statute making another statute enforceable does not

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

carry the exemption contained in that statute. Appellant is
not estopped because they might have been litigated. This is
a suit for taxes for different years from those involved in the
Pegues case. Keokuk & TV. R. Co. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301;
Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351; Louisville Railway v.
Wilson, 138 U. S. 501; Wilmington R. R. Co. v. Alsbrook, 146
U. S. 279; Nesbit v. Riverside, 144 U. S. 610; Willoughby v.
Railroad Co., 52 S. Car. 172.
The rule in South Carolina is that the question must have
been adjudicated in a former suit in order to estop the parties
from making it in the subsequent proceeding. Henderson v.
IKenner, 1 Rich. Law, S. Car. 474; Hart v. Bates, 17 S. Car. 35;
Jones v. Massey, 14 S. Car. 307; Duren v. Kee, 41 S. Car. 174;
McMakin v. Fowler, 34 S. Car. 286.
The State cannot be estopped by a judgment against its
officers or by any judgment where it has not voluntarily submitted to the jurisdiction as a result of legislative authority
(except of course in an original proceeding in the United States
Supreme Court), and to hold that a judgment against two tax
collectors represented by the Attorney General bound the State
so that her attorneys could not be allowed to contend in court
for her rights, would be subjecting every State to the process
of every court which could get personal jurisdiction of her officers as effectually as if she could be sued in her own name.
Amendment XI, Const. U. S.
If Pegues indirectly sued the State, the court was without
jurisdiction and the judgment was no estoppel. Anderson v.
Cave, 49 S. Car. 505. If the State was in priity with the defendant and he was the State's agent, it was an attempt to do
indirectly what could not be done directly. A judgment
against the agent of a State is not an estoppel as to the sovereign. United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 444; The Siren, 7 Wall.
152; The Davis, 10 Wall. 15; Carr v. United States, 98 U. S.
433; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204.
As to the power of the Attorney General to waive anything
for the State, see Commissioners v. Rose, I Des. 461.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

The Attorney General claimed no right to waive the State's
rights nor did the legislature accord him that right or ratify
his acts.
There is plain and adequate remedy at law. If the plea of
former adjudication is good, it can be set up as a defense and
fully availed of and the court of equity could not interfere.
Scottish & U. N. Ins. Co. v. Bowland, 196 U. S. 611, and cases
cited; Pennoyer v. McCannaughy, 140 U. S. 1.
As to the rule that the immunity of a State from suit is so
absolute and unqualified that its officers cannot be sued, see
Re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; State v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769; Cunningham v. Railroad Co.,
109 U. S. 446; Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52; Osborn v.
Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Tomlinson
v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460; Littlefield v. Webster Co., 101 U. S.
773; Allen v. Railroad Co., 114 U. S. 311; Board v. McComb,
92 U. S. 531; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270.
When the legal remedy is plain and adequate, no injunction
will lie to prevent the collection of taxes. We cite the following on this point: United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432; IndianaMfg. Co. v. Koehne, 188 U. S. 681; People's Nat. Bank v.
Marye, 107 Fed. Rep. 570; Douglas v. Stone, 110 Fed. Rep. 812.
As it is admitted that some of the taxes sued for are due,
no injunction can lie in the case, the part that is due not having been tendered. Carrington v. First Nat. Bank, 103 Fed.
Rep. 524; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Missouri, 190 U. S. 412.
Appellants are merely attorneys for the State, without any
personal interest in the cause and without any intention of
committing any trespass upon the property or rights of the
petitioner, merely prosecuting a suit at law to recover a debt
alleged to be due the State, in which suit all the defenses set
up here by the petitioner may and have been set up. To enjoin all the State's counsel from prosecuting her suit is to enjoin
the State from so doing, which a court has no power to do.
Chandler v. Dix, 194 U. S. 590; International Postal Supply
Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601; ยง 720, Rev. Stat.; Diggs v. Watl-

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

cott, 4 Branch, 179; Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 624; Haines v.
Carpenter,91 U. S. 254; Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10; Fitts
v. McGee, 172 U. S. 516.
As to the contention that although the courts ordinarily
will not enjoin when there is adequate remedy at law, still in
an ancillary proceeding it will be done; an ancillary proceeding
can only be based on a valid adjudication, and, if the original
judgment is not effective against the State and its attorneys,
the ancillary proceedings will not be effective either.
Mr. Theodore G. Barker and Mr. P. A. Willcox with whom
Mr. J. T. Barron was on the brief, for appellee.
IR. JusTiCo

WirrE delivered the opinion of the court.

Before analyzing the facts particularly bearing upon the legal
questions for decision, in order to a comprehension of those
questions we summarize in their chronological order matters
which are undisputed concerning the origin and development
of this controversy.
The legislature of South Carolina in 1855 exempted the capital stock and property of the Northeastern Railroad Company
from all taxation during its charter existence. In 1849 the
Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company was chartered by
legislative act, and by an amendment to the charter, adopted
in 1863, the last-named company was endowed with all the
powers, rights and privileges granted by the charter of the
Northeastern Railroad Company; it being besides provided
that the charter should not be subject to the provisions of a
general law, reserving the right to repeal, alter and amend, except where otherwise specially provided.
Under the assumed authority of a law of South Carolina,
providing for the assessment and taxation of property, passed
in 1868 (14 S. Car. Stat. 27-67), the Cheraw and Darlington
Railroad was assessed in the counties of Darlington and Chesterfield, through which the road ran. It became the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

the respective treasurers of the counties named to collect the
state and county taxes on the assessment thus made, and they
proceeded so to do. Thereupon, in 1870, Thomas E. B. Pegues,
a citizen of Mississippi, a stockholder of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad, filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of South Carolina against the Cheraw
and Darlington Railroad Company and the tieasurers of Darlington and Chesterfield counties, seeking to enjoin the corporation from paying and the county treasurers from collecting
the taxes referred to. The ground stated for the relief prayed
was that the taxes in question impaired the obligation of the
charter contract of exemption, and were, therefore, repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States. Various provisions
of a law of South Carolina, adopted in 1870, as an amendment
to the act of 1868 under which the taxes were levied, restricting the right of the corporation to resist the collection of taxes,
or to recover back an illegal tax, if paid, were alleged as justifying the interposition of a court of equity. An injunction pendente lite was allowed, restraining the collection of the disputed
taxes. By its answer the corporation admitted the averments
of the bill. A joint answer was filed for the two county treasurers, signed by "The Attorney General for the State of South
Carolina, for defendants." This answer admitted the assessment, the steps taken to collect the taxes and asserted their
validity, and denied the existence of the alleged contract of exemption. It was averred that if such an exemption ever existed it was subject to the legislative power to repeal, alter and
amend, and such repeal was alleged to have been operated by
constitutional and legislative provisions, which were referred
to. Jurisdiction of the court, in equity, was challenged on the
ground that there was an adequate remedy at law. A final
decree passed in favor of the complainant, recognizing the alleged exemption and perpetuating the injunction. An appeal
was prosecuted to this court. The cause was decided at the
December term, 1872. It was held that there was a contract
of exemption, which would be impaired by enforcing the taxes

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

complained of, and hence the decree below was affirmed.
Humphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244.

For at least twenty-five years following the decision in the
Pegues case no attempt was made to tax the property of the
Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company. In the year 1897
an act was passed, directing the Attorney General to proceed
to test the right of any railroad company to exemption, and
under this act that official sued the Cheraw and Darlington
Railroad Company to recover one hundred and thirty-four
thousand dollars, the sum of taxes, penalties and interest for a
period of twenty years, on the alleged ground that the company
had been mistakenly treated as having a contract of exemption.
The Supreme Court of the State, however, without passing upon
the question of exemption, decided that the right to recover
did not obtain, because in any event an assessment against the
railroad as provided by law was a prerequisite to the levy and
collection of taxes.
From a statement made in the argument of counsel it is to
be deduced that during the year 1898 the capital stock and
property of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company was
acquired by the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company of
South Carolina, and as the result of a charter granted to that
company by the State of South Carolina, in 1898, it is conceded
that the property formerly belonging to the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company became taxable, and that the State
has since that time levied and collected the taxes due on the
property. It is, moreover, conceded that the appellee on this
record, the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company, a Virginia
corporation, acquired, in 1900, the property of the Cheraw and
Darlington Railroad Company, as the successor of the South
Carolina corporation which bore the same name.
In the year 1900 an act was passed in South Carolina, providing for the assessment for taxation of railroad property
"which has been off the tax books for the years in which they
have been off the books, and to fix the time when such taxes
shall become due, and for the collection thereof." The act

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

created a board to make the assessment to which it referred,
limited the taxes to be imposed to ten years back, provided
that the assessment made by the board should be put upon the
rolls separately for each of the back years, and that there should
be levied upon such assessment state and county taxes for the
years to which the back assessment related. The act caused
the taxes for which it provided to become a lien against the
property upon which they might bear, and directed a certification of the taxes as assessed and levied to the respective county
treasurers, and made it their duty to collect the same. To
this end such treasurers were directed to make a demand for
payment upon the company in whose name the assessment was
made, or, if it was found that the property assessed was "in the
control of another company, demand shall be made of the company

.

.

.

in possession of the property."

By the act,

in addition, the Attorney General was directed, if the back
taxes assessed were not paid within sixty days after demand,
to bring a suit in the name of the State, with the cobperation
of such counsel as the counties might employ, to enforce the
collection of the back taxes against tie company in whose name
they were assessed or against the company found in possession
of the property assessed.
A meeting of the board appo'nted by this act was called in
May, 1900, by the Secretary of State, for the purpose of assessing the property formerly belonging to the Cheraw and
Darlington Railroad Company, and in the control and possession of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad for a period of ten
years back from 1898, on the ground that during such period
the property in question had not been taxed for state or county
purposes. The Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company appeared and protested against the proposed assessment. In the
protest it directed the attention of the board to the exemption
act, to the injunction granted and the decree rendered and affirmed by this court in the Pegues case. The board overruled
the protest and valued the property of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company for a period of ten years back from

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

1898 inclusive. The valuation so made was certified to the
officials of the counties of Chesterfield, Darlington and Florence
respectively, these three counties embracing the territory included in the counties of Chesterfield and Darlington at the
time the decree was rendered in the Pegues case. The state
and county taxes or the years covered by the assessments
were placed upon the rolls, and the taxes were certified for collection to the county treasurers. These officers demanded layment of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad, as the company in
possession and control of the property taxed. The company
refusing to pay, the Attorney General of the State of South
Carolina and counsel associated with him commenced, in the
Common Pleas Court in the respective counties, actions in the
name of the State to enforce payment against the Cheraw and
Darlington Railroad Company and the Atlantic Coast Line
Railroad Company, as the corporation in possession of the
property. Thereupon the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company, alleging itself to be a citizen of Virginia, commenced, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Carolina, the proceeding which is now before us against the
Attorney General of the State, the counsel associated with him
in the suits above referred to, and the treasurers of Chesterfield, Darlington and Florence Counties. The petition which
initiated the proceeding was filed as ancillary to the original
Pegues case, and was entitled and numbered as of that cause.
It referred to the prior proceedings in the cause, including the
perpetual injunction therein issued, and to the decree of this
court which affirmed the same. It alleged the assessment of
back taxes as above stated, the asserted lien resulting therefrom, the demand of payment and the suits brought to enforce
payment, and charged that each and all of the acts done concerning the said assessment of the back taxes, including the
bringing of the actions in the state court, were in direct violation and disregard of the injunction previously issued. The
prayer was that the petitioner as successor in interest of Pegues
be protected in the rights and privileges adjudged in the Pegues

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

case, and be accorded the benefit of the injunction issued in that
case, and to that end that the Attorney General of the State
and his associate counsel be enjoined from further prosecution
of the actions commenced in the state courts in the name of
the State to enforce payment of the taxes, and that the respective county treasurers be enjoined from any further attempt to
collect such taxes.
A preliminary injunction was granted, restraining the Attorney General and his associate counsel from further prosecuting
the actions brought in the state court, and also restraining the
county treasurers from further proceeding to collect the taxes.
In response to a rule to show cause why the preliminary injunction should not be made perpetual the defendants answered,
denying the right to the relief prayed upon grounds which, as
far as now material, we shall hereafter state and consider.
After hearing on petition and answers, accompanied by affidavits or admissions establishing the facts to be as we have previously stated them, a final decree was entered, perpetuating
the preliminary injunction. Subsequently the court, reciting
that its attention had been directed to the fact that its decree
was interpreted as restraining the prosecution of suits for any
tax which might have accrued from the eighteenth day of July,
1898, when the exemption had been surrendered, modified its
decree so as to exclude from the operation of the injunction
any act of the defendants looking to the collection, "by suit
or otherwise, of any sum or sums of money which may be due
or charged for taxes on said property of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company after said eighteenth day of July,
1898, at which date it was admitted in argument the exemption
established in Pegues v. Hvm phreys was surrendered." This
appeal was then taken.
Although the errors assigned on the record are seventeen in
number, in the argument at bar but six contentions were relied
upon, and we shall therefore confine ourselves to their consideration.
All tho propositions involved in the assignments will be dis-

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U. S.

Opimion of the Court.

posed of by determining first, whether all the defendants on
this record, including the State through its Attorney General,
were parties or privies to the decree in the Pegues case; second,
if they were, whether the decree in that case concluded against
them the want of power to impose or collect the taxes in controversy; and, third, if it did so conclude them, whether the
court below erred in granting the relief which it awarded.
First. We at once treat as undoubted the right of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company to the benefits of the decree in the Pegues case, since it is conceded in the argument at
bar that that company, as the successor to the rights of Pegues,
is entitled to the protection of the original decree rendered in
his favor.
On the face of the record in the Pegues case, the nominal
defendants were the treasurers of the counties of Chesterfield
and Darlington, in which counties the property of the railroad
was situated. Those now holding the office of treasurer in each
of the named counties are among the parties on this record,
with the addition of the treasurer of Florence County, which
county, as we have stated, consists of territory embraced in
Chesterfield or Darlington County at the time of the entry of
the Pegues decree. That under these circumstances the defendant treasurers, as the successors in office of the officials
who were parties to the Pegues case, are privies to that decree,
is established. Prout v. Starr, 188 U. S. 537, 544.
In deciding whether the State and its Attorney General were
privies to the Pegues decree, some elementary propositions
must be borne in mind:
a. In view of the prohibitions of the Eleventh Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, a State, without its
consent, may not be sued by an individual in a Circuit Court
of the United States.
b. A suit against state officers to enjoin them from enforcing
a tax alleged to be in violation of the Constitution of the United States is not a suit against a State within the prohibition
of the Eleventh Amendment. The doctrine announced in

OCTOBER TERAI, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

many previous cases on the subject was stated by Mr. Justice
Harlan, delivering the opinion of the court in Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, wherein, after holding that a suit against officers
to prevent the doing of acts authorized by a state statute was
not necessarily a suit against the State, or within the prohibitions of the Eleventh Amendment, it was said (pp. 518, 519):
"It is the settled doctrine of this court that a suit against
individuals for the purpose of preventing them as officers of a
State from enforcing an unconstitutional enactment to the injury of the rights of the plaintiff, is not a suit against the State
within the meaning of that Amendment."
And the subject was reviewed and restated in Proutv. Starr,
188 U. S. 537.
c. Although a State may not be sued without its consent,
such immunity is a privilege which may be waived, and hence
where a State voluntarily becomes a party to a cause and submits its rights for judicial determination, it will be bound
thereby and cannot escape the result of its own voluntary act
by invoking the prohibitions of the Eleventh Amendment.
Clark v. Barnard,108 U. S. 436, 447.
As, then, the State was not a party eo nomine in the Pegues
case and as, although the suit was against officers it was not
for that reason alone a suit against the State, it must follow
that the ascertainment of whether the State was a party to
that cause depends upon determining whether the taxing officers who were the nominal defendants were endowed by the
State with the power, in a suit brought against them assailing
the validity of taxes levied, to represent the State in the controversy so as to conclusively establish the rights of the State
against the plaintiff if decree passed against him, and on the
other hand to establish as against the State the rights of the
plaintiff in that cause if decree passed in his favor. Thus the
inquiry reduces itself to this: Did the State of South Carolina
become, in substance and effect, a party to the Pegues case?
In other words, did the State, through the authority which it
had conferred upon the defendant officers, voluntarily submit

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to judicial determination the question raised in the Pegues case
concerning the alleged limitation of the taxing power of the
State, arising from the contract on that subject which was asserted in that case?
As a prelude to the consideration of the question just stated,
it is well to determine at once the interest which the State had
in the controversy which was represented by the county treasurers who were the nominal defendants in the Pegues case.
Coming to do so, it is plain that the controversy which that
suit involved was one in which the State was directly interested,
since the officers who were the nominal defendants were charged
by the state law, not only with the duty of collecting the county
but also the state taxes, the validity of which was assailed on
grounds which challenged the power of the State to impose
any tax upon the property of the corporation during the existence of its charter. The officers were, therefore, in a sense,
state officers, charged with the performance of a duty imposed
for the benefit of the State. And that those officers were considered as being pro hac vice state officers, for the purposes of
the controversy which the Pegues case involved, is shown by
the statement of the case made by this court in delivering its
opinion affirming the decree. Thus it was said (16 Wall. 245,
246):
"These different enactments above mentioned being in force,
the state officers of counties in South Carolina, where the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad was situate, acting under the
authority of the legislature of the State, imposed certain taxes
on the stock and property of that company, and were proceeding to enforce payment of them, when one Pegues, a stockholder in Mississippi, filed a bill in the court below, praying an
injunction to restrain the collection."
The question, then, is narrowed to this: Were the officers
endowed with authority to stand in judgment for the State in
suits brought against such officers wherein the validity of the
taxes was assailed?
The law of South Carolina under which the taxes were levied

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

was adopted in 1868. Now, by section 137 of that act (14
0. Car. Stat. 65), the county auditors and county treasurers were
authorized to employ counsel, and the counties were made liable for the fees of such counsel as well as for any damages
which might be awarded against such officials, resulting from
a defense made by them of any action prosecuted against the
officials "for performing or attempting to perform any duty
enjoined upon them by this act, the result of which action will
affect the interests of the county, if decided in favor of the
plaintiff in such action." It follows from this provision that
where a suit was brought against a county treasurer in respect
to county taxes, that official was empowered to represent the
county for the purpose of the defense of its interest, and a judgment rendered against such official was therefore made binding
upon the county. It was further provided in the section that
"if the State be interested in the revenue in said action, the
county auditor shall, immediately upon the commencement of
said action, inform the Auditor of State of its commencement,
of the alleged cause thereof, and the Auditor of State shall submit the same to the Attorney General, who shall defend said
action for and on behalf of the State."
We see no escape from the conclusion that the provision last
quoted, where suit was brought concerning state taxes, made a
county treasurer, who was the state tax collector, an agent for

the State jnd empowered him, "for and on behalf of the State,"
to defend the suit, and required him, in order fully to protect
the interests of the State, to be represented by the highest law
officer of the State, the Attorney General. And the power,
which we think the section referred to conferred upon the
county officers to represent the State in suits or actions, is
moreover persuasively indicated by a consideration of the act
of 1870, amending in certain particulars the act of 1868. 14 S.
Car. Stat. 366. Substantially, that amendment, whilst forbidding the taxpayer from enjoining the collection of taxes, created a remedial system, by which questions of asserted illegality
were to be examined by the state auditor, and, where that of-

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ficial disallowed the claim of illegality, made it the duty of the
taxpayer to pay, and, subject to certain conditions, gave a
right of action to recover back the money paid. And by section 8, where such an action was brought, it was made."the
duty of the Attorney General of the State to defend any suit
or proceedings against any tax collector or other officer who
shall be sued for moneys collected, or property levied on, or
sold on account of any tax, when the state auditor shall have
ordered such collector to proceed in the collection of any such
tax, . . . and any judgment against such collector or officer, finally recovered, shall be paid in the manner provided
in section 81 of the act to provide for the assessment and taxation of the property aforesaid "-that is, section 81 of the act
of 1868. Now, by that section, where a judgment passed
against a county official concerning state taxes which had been
paid, the State was in effect made liable for the amount of the
judgment. Thus, in such a case, as in cases provided for in
section 137 of the act of 1868, the State through its officials
was made the real defendant.
If there were doubt-which we think there is not-as to the
construction which we give to the act of 1868, that doubt is
entirely dispelled by a consideration of the contemporaneous
interpretation given to the act by the officials charged with its
execution, by the view which this court took as to the real
party in interest on the record in the Pegues case, and by the
action as well as non-action which followed the decision of that
case by the state government in all its departments through a
long period of years.
The answer in the Pegues case, which denied the existence
of the alleged contract of exemption and asserted the existing
and continuing power of the State to tax, was signed, for the
defendants, by the Attorney General of South Carolina, who
also, in his official capacity, verified such pleading. The word
"defendants" cannot be construed as implying any other than
the county officers empowered to represent the State,\without
imputing to the Attorney General a failure to discharge the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

duty directly imposed upon him by the State. This must result from the command of the statute, that he should defend
the suit, the state revenue being concerned, not merely for the
county officers, but "for and on behalf of the State," a command which would have been wholly disregarded if the appearance of the Attorney General be treated as having been made
solely for the purpose of representing the defendants as individuals. And subsequent events show that the highest law
officer of the State, when he filed the answer for the defendants
in the Pegues case, intended that answer to be what the statute
caused it to be, that is, an answer for the defendants standing
upon the record, for and in behalf of the State, in defense of
the right of the State to collect the taxes. When the appeal
was prosecuted from the final decree perpetually enjoining the
officials who were named as the defendants (and, as we have
seen, their successors in office) from any attempt in the future
to collect a tax upon the property of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company, such appeal was prayed by the same
counsel who had signed the answer as Attorney General of the
State, and who, upon the expiration of his term of office, was
retained by his successor in office and the Governor of the State
(as shown by an official report made to the legislature of the
State) to prosecute the appeal and "to appear in behalf of the
State." And when the appeal was heard in this court a printed
argument was signed, not only by the counsel thus retained on
behalf of the State by the Governor and the Attorney General,
but also by the then incumbent of the office of Attorney General of the State. That this court, in deciding the appeal in
the Pegues case, considered that the State was the real party
appellant, is shown by the opinion, where it was said (16 Wall.
p. 247):
"The State contends that the privileges thus granted were
limited to those conferred upon the Northeastern by its original
charter or act of incorporation, passed in 1851."
When to all these conclusive consideratons there is added the
fact that we have not been referred to any legislative action

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

repudiating the conduct of the Governor and the Attorney General in the defense of the Pegues suit for and on behalf of the
State, and when besides we take into account the failure of the
state government in all its departments, for more than twentyfive years following the decision of the Pegues case, to assert any
right to tax in conflict with the contract exemption which the
Pegues decree sustained, the binding efficacy of the decree in
that case upon the State of South Carolina seems to us beyond
the reach of serious controversy. Indeed, we are not left to
conjecture that the inaction of the State was the result of what
was deemed to be the conclusive effect on the State of the
Pegues decree, since it is shown that in one or two instances
after the decree was rendered where preliminary steps were
taken by the taxing officials of the State to impose taxes on
the property of the railroad, such efforts were at once abandoned in consequence of the advice of Attorneys General of
the State that the decree in the Pegues case was conclusive and
the property could not be taxed.
Concluding, as we do from the terms of the act of 1868, that
the officers who were named as defendants in the Pegues case
were, for the purpose of that litigation, the agents voluntarily
appointed by the State to defend its rights and submit them to
judicial determination, we content ourselves with saying that
it is unnecessary to review the case of State v. Corbin, 16 S. Car.
533, and other decisions of the Supreme Court of South Carolina, pressed upon our attention, since those cases did not involve the statute of 1868 or statutes of like import. And,
moreover, we must not be understood as holding that other
provisions of the law of South Carolina, relied upon in argument, would be inadequate to bind the State by the action of
its Attorney General, if the provisions of the act of 1868 did
not exist. Into that consideration we have not entered.
Second. The State of South Carolina and its Attorney General, and his associate counsel, as the agents of the State, being, therefore, privies to and bound by the decree in the Pegues
case, we must determine what was concluded by that decree.
VOL. CC-,9

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

That the issue in the case was the existence of a charter exemption from taxation in favor of the Cheraw and Darlington
Railroad Company, and the consequent want of power of the
State to tax the property of the railroad during the continuance
of the exemption, is obvious. And that the decree rendered
in the cause established the exemption embraced in the issues
is also obvious. This being true, it unquestionably follows that
the decree established as to the parties and their privies the
very question in issue in this proceeding. Escape from this
inevitable result is sought to be accomplished by several propositions, all of which we think are unsound.
a. The complaint in the Pegues case, it is said, mistakenly
averred that the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad had not been
built at the time the amendment of the charter was made which
gave the exemption relied upon, and as this, it is asserted, was
not traversed by the answer filed in the case by the Attorney
General it was consequently erroneously assumed to be true in
fact, and the decree, it is argued, was based upon such assumption. From this the contention is that if the truth had been
established a different decree would have been rendered, because no consideration for the grant of exemption would then
have appeared. But, even granting the premise, the deduction
is unsound. To admit it would destroy the effect of the thing
adjudged, resulting from the decree in the Pegues case, since
all defenses then existing to the asserted right of exemption,
whether brought to the attention of the court or waived, were
foreclosed by the decree. United States v. California& Oregon
Land Co., 192 U. S. 355; Fdyerweather v. Bitch, 195 U. S. 276,
300 et seq., and cases cited. And although it be conceded for
the sake of argument that the doctrine of res judicata, as announced in rulings of the Supreme Court of South Carolina,
lends support to the contention made, our duty is to give to the
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States in the Pegues
case the force and effect to which it is entitled under the principles of res judicata as settled by this court, especially in view
of the fact that the controversy in the Pegues case involved

GUNTER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rights protected by the Constitution of the United States.
Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499.
b. It is urged that as the taxes, the collection of which the
court enjoined, were not for the same years as were the taxes
with which the Pegues case was concerned, the Pegues decree
was, therefore, not res judicata, because it related to a different
cause of action. This rests upon the assumption that a decree
enjoining the collection of a tax for one year can never be the
thing adjudged as to the right to collect taxes of a subsequent
year. But the proposition entirely disregards the fact that the
decree in the Pegues case, enjoining the collection of the taxes
in controversy in that case, was rested upon the ground that
there was a contract protected from impairment by the Constitution of the United States which was as controlling on future taxes as it was upon the particular taxes to which the
Pegues suit related. The contention, therefore, simply asserts
that a contract right of exemption was beyond the pale of judicial protection, because rights under such contract could
never be sanctioned by final judicial action. Besides, the proposition is not open to controversy. New Orleans v. Citizens'
Bank, 167 U. S. 371; Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, supra.
Third. It is insisted that the court below had no power to
restrain the Attorney General of South Carolina and the counsel associated with him from prosecuting in the state courts
actions authorized by the laws of the State, and hence that
the court erred in awarding an in junction against said officers.
Support for the proposition is rested upon the terms of the
Eleventh Amendment and the provisions of section 720 of the
Revised Statutes, forbidding the granting of a writ by any
court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of
a State, except in cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy. The
soundness of the doctrine relied upon is undoubted. In re
Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516. The
difficulty is that the doctrine is inapplicable to this case. Section 720 of the Revised Statutes was originally adopted in

OCTOBER TERAT, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

1793, whilst the Eleventh Amendment was in process of formation in Congress for submission to the States, and long, therefore, before the ratification of that Amendment. The restrictions embodied in the section were, therefore, but a partial
accomplishment of the more comprehensive result effectuated
by the prohibitions of the Eleventh Amendment. Both the
statute and the amendment relate to the power of courts of
the United States to deal, against the will and consent of a
State, with controversies between it and individuals. None
of the prohibitions, therefore, of the Amendment or of the statute relate to the power of a Federal court to administer relief
in causes where jurisdiction as to a State and its officers has
been acquired as a result of the voluntary action of the State
in submitting its rights to judicial determination. To confound the two classes of cases is but to overlook the distinction
which exists between the power of a court to deal with a subject over which it has jurisdiction and its want of authority to
entertain a controversy as to which jurisdiction is not possessed. From this it follows that, as in the Pegucs case, the
court had acquired jurisdiction with the assent of the State of
South Carolina, to determine as to it the controversy presented
in that case, the right of the court to administer relief, to make
its decree effective, cannot be measured by constitutional or
statutory provisions relating to original proceedings where jurisdiction over the controversy did not obtain. In other words,
the proposition relied upon is disposed of by the conclusion
which we have previously expressed concerning the persons
who were parties and privies to the decree rendered in the
Pegues case. Indeed, the proposition that the Eleventh Amendment, or section 720 of the Revised Statutes, control a court
of the United States in administering relief, although the court
was acting in a matter ancillary to a decree rendered in a cause
over which it had jurisdiction, is not open for discussion.
Dietzsch v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 494; Proutv. Starr, 188 U. S.
537; Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S. 93, 112.
And this reasoning disposes of the contention that the court

CARFER v. CALDWELL.
200 U. S.

Syllabus.

below erred in enforcing its prior decree because there was adequate remedy at law, by interposing a defense in the state
courts to the actions brought by the Attorney General. That
question was foreclosed by the decree in the Pegues case. So
also does the reasoning dispose of the assertion that because a
part of the tax for the year 1898 may have been due, therefore
tender should have been made before invoking the power of
the court to protect its jurisdiction and enforce the prior decree. The amendment of the decree made by the court eliminated from the controversy all question concerning the portion
of the tax not covered by the decree in the Pegues case. Having acquired by, that decree a right which the petitioner was
entitled to enforce, whatever might have been the rule of tender
as applied to other cases, that rule could not rightly be invoked
to deprive the court below as a court of equity of the power
to protect the petitioner in the enjoyment of rights previously
secured under a decree of the court.

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BROWN dissents.

CARFER, SHERIFF, v. CALDWELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 360. Submitted January 8, 190.-Decided January22, 1906.
As the jurisdiction of courts of the United States to issue writs of habeas
corpus is limited to cases of persons alleged to be restrained of their liberty in violation of the Constitution or of some law or treaty of the United
States, and cases arising under the law of nations, a Circuit Court cannot issue the writ to release a citizen from imprisonment by another
citizen of the State merely because the imprisonment is illegal.
The objection of a person committed for contempt, for refusing to appear before a legislative committee, that the subject which it had been appointed
to investigate was not within the jurisdiction of the legislature, under
a provision in the state constitution, that neither the legislative, executive
nor judicial departments should exercise powers belonging to either of the
others, does not present any question under the due process clause of the
Fourteeath Amendment.

