CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.

UNITED STATES ex rel. DRURY v. LEWIS, WARDEN
OF THE COMMON JAIL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 126. Argued December 12, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.
An officer and an enlisted soldier in the military service of the United
States were indicted for murder and manslaughter and held for trial
in a state court for having killed a citizen of the State who was not in
the -ervice of the United States, the alleged crime having been committed within the State, on property not belonging to, or under the
jurisdiction of, the United States. On a writ of habeas corpus from a
Circuit Court of the United States it was contended that petitioners were
seeking to arrest the deceased for felony under the laws of the United
States and that he met his death while attempting to escape, and as therefore the homicide was committed by petitioners in the discharge of their
duties, the state court was without jurisdiction. On the hearing there
was a conflict of evidence as to whether deceased had surrendered or not,
and it was conceded that if he were not a fleeing felon the ground for
Federal interposition failed. Held, that

VOL.. Co--1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

The Circuit Court properly declined to wrest petitioners from the custody
of the state officers in advance of trial in the state courts.
Rx parle Crouch, 112 U. S. 178, applied.
RALiPH W. DRURY and John Dowd were indicted in the Court
of Oyer and Terminer for the county of Allegheny, Pennsylvania, on two counts, the first charging them with murder, and
the second with manslaughter, in the homicide of one William
H. Crowley, September 10, 1903. They were admitted to bail
in the sum of $5,000 each, and having been subsequently surrendered, obtained a writ of habeas corpus from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The case on the hearing was thus stated by Acheson, J., holding the Circuit Court:
"On September 10, 1903, Ralph W. Drury was a commissioned officer of the United States Army, of the rank of second
lieutenant, and had under his command a detachment of twenty
enlisted men, of whom John Dowd was one, stationed at Allegheny Arsenal, in the city of Pittsburg, in Allegheny County,
Pennsylvania, this arsenal being a subpost of Ft. Niagara, N. Y.
From time to time before September 10, 1903, some copper
down spouts and eave troughs had been stripped from some of
the buildings on the arsenal grounds and the material stolen,
and other depredations, such as the breaking of window lights,
had been committed on the arsenal property. Lieut. Col. Robertson, the commanding officer at Ft. Niagara, on the occasion
of an inspection of Allegheny Arsenal, in July, 1903, had directed Lieutenant Drury to use his best endeavors to stop the
depredations, and to that end ordered him to establish a patrol
of the guards day and night upon the arsenal grounds, and to
apprehend and arrest any person or persons committing depredations on the arsenal property. Shortly before 10 o'clock on
the morning of September 10, 1903, having received word that
some persons were stealing copper from one of the buildings on
the arsenal grounds, Lieutenant Drury took John Dowd, then
on guard duty, and another private soldier (each of the latter
being armed with a rifle and ammunition), and, passing out of

DRURY v. LEWIS.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the arsenal grounds through the gate on Butler street, the three
proceeded by way of Butler street and Almond alley toward,
the Allegheny Valley Railroad. Drury informed the two men
of the reported stealing of copper and instructed them to continue down Almond alley and to arrest any person coming from
the arsenal. Drury himself left Almond alley at the corner of
Willow street and went by Willow street to Fortieth street
(which runs along, but outside of, the arsenal wall), and proceeded down Fortieth street to its foot, where were congregated
three or four half-grown boys or young men, among whom was
William H. Crowley, aged about 19 or 20 years. These persons
fled in different directions when they saw Lieutenant Drury
approaching. Crowley ran from the foot of Fortieth strcet
away from the arsenal property in the direction of Forty-first
street, keeping on or near the Allegheny Valley Railroad.
When he was about one hundred yards from the arsenal wall
Crowley was shot by Dowd, who aimed and fired his rifle at
Crowley. At the time of the shooting, Drury, Dowd, and
Crowley were all off the grounds belonging to the United States.
Each one of the three then stood either upon a street of the
city, on the Allegheny Valley Railroad, or on private property.
The rifle ball struck Crowley's left thigh, inflicting a mortal
wound from which he died on the evening of the same daySeptember 10, 1903.
"Thus far the facts are not open to dispute under the testimony. But as to the circumstances attending the shooting of
Crowley the evidence is conflicting and leads to opposite conclusions of fact as one or other version of the affair given by
the witnesses is accepted. Dowd testifies, and the petitioners
have produced other evidence tending to show, that as Crowley
fled he was called on several times by Dowd, who followed him,
to halt, with warning that unless he halted Dowd would fire;
that Crowley did not halt, but continued his flight, and to prevent his escape behind or through a lumber pile Dowd fired,
and that Drury did not order Dowd to fire, and was not connected with the shooting save by the fact that he ordered the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

200 U. .

arrest of any person coming from the arsenal. On the other
hand, two witnesses who were present (Mrs. Long and Miss Terwillerger) testify that before the shot was fired Crowley stopped,
turned around facing the pursuing soldier (Dowd), threw up his
hand, said, 'Don't shoot,'" I will come back,' or'I will give up,'
and that just then Lieutenant Drury said 'Fire!' and Dowd
fired the shot that killed Crowley. The testimony of at least
one other witness tends to corroborate the account of the transaction given by the two named women as above recited. It is
not for me to say whether or not the witnesses who have testified thus on the part of the Commonwealth are mistaken.
"In view of all the evidence herein, should this court interfere to prevent the trial of the petitioners upon the indictment
in the state court, take the petitioners out of the custody of the
authorities of the State, and discharge them finally without
trial by any civil court in the regular administration of justice?
This is the question which confronts me." 129 Fed. Rep. 823.
The court entered an order discharging the writ and remanding petitioners to the custody of the warden of the jail of Allegheny County, and from that order this appeal was allowed and
prosecuted.
Mr. Assistant Attornej General Purdy for appellants:
United States officers and other persons held in custody by
state authority for doing acts which they are authorized or required to do by the Constitution and laws of the United States
are entitled to be released from such custody, and the writ of
habcas corpus is the appropriate remedy for that purpose. In
re Nreagle, 135 U. S.1I In re Waite, 81 Fed. Rep. 359; Ohio v.
Thomas, 173 U. S.276; § 761 Rev. Stat.
The petitioners upon this appeal are entitled to have this
court examine the evidence and determine the facts in this
case, and to decide whether or not these petitioners are entitled
to be discharged from the custody of the warden. Storti v.
Massachusetts, 183 U. S.138, 143.
Only a few minutes before his death Crowley had committed

DRURY v. LEWIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

a felony within the arsenal grounds, a place under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States, over which crime and the
place where it was conmitted the courts of the United States
had exclusive jurisdiction.
In the absence of any specific law upon the subject, the petitioners were charged with the duty of arresting persons guilty
of stealing Government property under their custody. At the
time of the homicide there existed a specific law of the United
States under which these petitioners were acting in making
Crowley's arrest. § 161 Rev. Stat.; Campbell v. Thayer, 88
Fed. Rep. 102, 106.
As to the responsibility of officers of the army in command
of a post or station for the security of all public property in
their custody or under their control, see §§ 739, 740, 764 and
766 of the Army Regulations for 1901.
If the laws of the United States imposed upon these petitioners the duty to arrest Crowley for the felony which he had
conmitted, they were justified in making use of whatever force
was necessary for the purpose of performing such duty, even to
the extent of firing upon Crowley, if in no other way he could
be apprehended. Rex v. Geo. Howarth, 3 Moody's Crown Cases,
207; The Queen v. Dadson, 2 Denison's Crown Cases, 35; Regiiia v. Mlurphy, 3 Crawford & Dix's Circuit Cases, 20; 1 East's
Pleas of the Crown, 298; 1 Hale, 481; Rex v. Finnerty, I Crawf.
& Dix's C. C. 167; 1 Hawkins, 881; 1 Russ. Crimes, 666; 3
Wharton on Crim. Law, § 2927; 1 Bishop Crim. Pro. § 159;
2 Bishop New Crim. Law, § 648; Conraddy v. People, 5 Parker
(N. Y.), 234, 241; Commonwealth v. Long, 17 Pa. Super. Ct.
641, 647.
The petitioner Dowd was justified, under all the facts and
circumstances of the case, in firing upon the felon Crowley
for the purpose of effecting his arrest, and that the court of
Oyer and Terminer of Allegheny County is without jurisdiction
to try the petitioners on the indictment which has been found
against them in that court. Brish v. Carteret al., 57 At. Rep.
(Md.) 210; Olson v. Leindecker, 97 N. W. Rep. (Minn.) 972;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

Brooks v. State, 39 S. W. Rep. (Ga.) 877; People v. Glennon, 74
N. Y. Supp. 794; Kirk & Son v. Garrett, 84 Maryland, 383;
People v. Hochstin, 73 N. Y. Supp. 626; Stapely v. Commonwealth, 6 Binney (Pa.), 316; Brooks v. Commonwealth, 61 Pa.
St. 352; United States v. Fuellhart, 106 Fed. Rep. 911.
The evidence is conclusive that Crowley was wounded while
fleeing from arrest. Even though Dowd used more force in
attempting to make the arrest than he was warranted in using
under the law, nevertheless since he was engaged in performing
a duty imposed upon him by a law of the United States, the
state courts are without jurisdiction to call him to account for
the excessive use of force in performing a duty which the Federal laws commanded. Ex parte Jenkins, 2 Wall. Jr. 543; In
re Neagle, supra; In re Waite, 81 Fed. Rep. 359.
There was no appearance for the appellee.
MR.CmEF JusTICE FuLLER,after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

In Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284, 290, an appeal from the final
order of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Texas, in habeas corpus, it was said:
"The court below had jurisdiction to issue the writ and to
decide the questions which were argued before it. Ex parte
Royall, 117 U. S. 241; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231. In
the latter case most of the prior authorities are mentioned.
From these cases it clearly appears, as the settled and proper
procedure, that while Circuit Courts of the United States have
jurisdiction, under the circumstances set forth in the foregoing
statement, to issue the writ of habeas corpus, yet those courts
ought not to exercise that jurisdiction by the discharge of a
prisoner unless in cases of peculiar urgency, and that instead
of discharging they will leave the prisoner to be dealt with by
the courts of the State; that after a final determination of the
case by the state court, the Federal courts will even then generally leave the petitioner to his remedy by writ of error from

DRURY v. LEWIS.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this court. The reason for this course is apparent. It is an
exceedingly delicate jurisdiction given to the Federal courts by
which a person under an indictment in a state court and subject
to its laws may, by the decision of a single judge of the Federal
court, upon a writ of habeas corpus, be taken out of the custody
of the officers of the State and finally discharged therefrom, and
thus a trial by the state courts of an indictment found under
the laws of a State be finally prevented. Cases have occurred
of so exceptional a nature that this course has been pursued.
Such are the cases In re Loney, 134 U. S. 372, and In re Neagle,
135 U. S.1, but the reasons for the interference of the Federal
court in each of those cases were extraordinary, and presented
what this court regarded as such exceptional facts as to justify
the interference of the Federal tribunal. Unless this case be of
such an exceptional nature, we ought not to encourage the interference of the Federal court below with the regular course
of justice in the state court."
The rule thus declared is well settled and, in our judgment,
it was properly applied in this case. Crowley was a citizen of
Pennsylvania, not in the service of the United States, and was
killed in or near a street of the city of Pittsburgh, and not on
property belonging to the United States or over which the
United States had jurisdiction.
The homicide occurred within the territorial jurisdiction of
the Court of Oyer and Terminer, which, as Judge Acheson observed, was the only civil court which could have jurisdiction
to try petitioners for the alleged unlawful killing, and the indictment presented a case cognizable by that court.
The general jurisdiction in time of peace of the civil courts of
a State over persons in the military service of the United States,
who are accused of a capital crime or of any offense against the
person of a citizen, committed within the State, is, of course,
not denied.
But it is contended on behalf of the Government that the
state court was absolutely without jurisdiction to try petitioners for the killing of Crowley, because the homicide was coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

mitted by them "while in the lawful performance of a duty and
obligation imposed upon them by the Constitution and laws of
the United States." The argument is that Crowley had been
guilty of the crime of larceny and could have been indicted and
prosecuted on the charge of felony in the District Court of the
United States under section 5439 of the Revised Statutes, or
under section 5391, the United States having jurisdiction over
the Allegheny Arsenal property and the Pennsylvania laws making what Crowley is alleged to have done a felony. Hence that
it was the duty of petitioners to arrest Crowley and to surrender
him to the Federal authorities for prosecution. And it is insisted that the fact is "established that Crowley met his death
while attempting to escape arrest." But there was a conflict
of evidence as to whether Crowley had or had not surrendered,
and it is conceded that if he had, it could not reasonably be
claimed that the fatal shot was fired in the performance of a
duty imposed by the Federal law, and the state court had jurisdiction.
The Circuit Court was not called on to determine the guilt or
innocence of the accused. That was for the state court if it had
jurisdiction, and this the state court had, even though it was
petitioners' duty to pursue and arrest Crowley (assuming that
he had stolen pieces of copper), if the question of Crowley being
a fleeing felon was open to dispute on the evidence; that is, if
that were the gist of the case, it was for the state court to pass
upon it, and its doing so could not be collaterally attacked.
The assertion that Crowley was resisting arrest and in flight
when shot was matter of defense, and Ex parte Crouch, 112 U. S.
178, is in point.
We have repeatedly held that the acts of Congress in relation
to habeas corpus do not imperatively require the Circuit Courts
to Test petitioners from the custody of state officers in advance

of trial in the state courts, and that those courts may decline to
discharge in the proper exercise of discretion. We think that
discretion was properly exercised in this case.
Final order affirmed.

