OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

200 U. S.

is a carrier for itself and others means that the line is dedicated
to carrying for whatever portion of the public may desire to
use it, the foundation of the argument on the other side disappears.
Judgment affirmed.

WHITNEY v. DRESSER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 180.

Argued January 26, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.

Bankruptcy proceedings are more summary than ordinary suits, and a
sworn proof of claim against the bankrupt is prima facie evidence of its
allegations in case it is objected to.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George H. Gilman for appellant:
The burden of proof as to claims against a bankrupt estate
is upon the claimant, and he is not relieved of it by the ex parte
statements in his proof of claim.
It is of course a general principle, applicable to every form
of legal or equitable procedure in courts administering the
Anglo-Saxon system of jurisprudence, that a mere ex parte
affidavit is not to be treated as legal evidence in support of
the claim embodied therein, if objection is made to the claim
and the issues thereby raised are brought to trial. Loveland
on Bankruptcy, 2d ed., 341.
The question has come up under state insolvency laws, and
proofs of claim under those laws are always treated, if an issue
is raised by objections filed thereto, as in the nature of pleadings, which must be supported by legal evidence. This has

WHITNEY v. DRESSER.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been the practice in the New York state courts. Matterof Jeselson, 10 Daly, 104. See also Crandallv. Carey-LombardLumber Co., 164 Illinois, 474; Bank v. Lanahan, 66 Maryland, 461.
Mr. Adrian H. Joline,with whom Mr. Adrian H. Larkin and
Mr. George E. Hargravewere on the brief, for appellee:
The verified amended proof of claim is prima facie evidence
of indebtedness requiring the trustee to produce evidence of
sufficient force to rebut the presumption thus raised. In re
Sumner, 101 Fed. Rep. 224; In re Shaw, 109 Fed. Rep. 780;
In re Doty, 5 Am. B. Rep. 58; In re Cannon, 133 Fed. Rep. 837;
In re Carter, 138 Fed. Rep. 846. The cases cited by appellant arising under state insolvency laws have no bearing on
this question.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the allowance of a claim of Emma B.
Dresser against the firm of Dresser & Company, bankrupts,
the members of the firm being Daniel Le Roy Dresser and
Charles E. Reiss. The allegations of the amended proof, so
far as necessary to be stated, are that the bankrupts are justly
and truly indebted to the deponent in the sum of $88,145, upon
the following consideration. Before May, 1896, the deponent
lent certain specified shares of stock to the firm of Dresser and
Goodrich for the purpose of the firm's borrowing money upon
the same, etc., and the firm did so. In May, 1896, the firm
was dissolved, Daniel Le Roy Dresser took over its assets and
assumed its liabilities, including that to the deponent with her
consent, "and the proceeds of the loans for which said securities had been deposited by said firm as collateral were turned
over to said Daniel Le Roy Dresser and used by him in his
business." In May, 1897, the present bankrupts formed their
partnership, taking over the assets and assuming the liabilities of said Dresser. At the request of said Dresser and Reiss
with deponent's knowledge and consent the liability of Dresser

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

to the deponent was assumed by the firm, "and used by said
firm in its business." Evidently some words were omitted at
this point, by mistake, and we agree with the court below that
the most reasonable view is that it was intended to repeat the
phrase quoted above in speaking of the transfer from Dresser
& Goodrich to Dresser.
The trustee objected to the allowance of the claim against
the assets of the partnership and put in evidence before the
referee, the main fact proved being that Dresser personally
signed the notes on which were made the advances for which
the stocks were pledged. This was relied on, in connection
with the form of the proof of claim before it was amended, to
show that the stocks really were lent to Daniel Le Roy Dresser
alone. On the other hand it appeared that some, at least, of
the checks for the money lent went to the firm, and all the evidence was reconcilable with the averments of the amended
claim. The referee ruled that the verified amended proof of
claim was prima facie proof of the indebtedness of Dresser &
Co. to the claimants, held the evidence introduced insufficient
to rebut it, and dismissed the objection. The District Judge
sustained the action of the referee and his order was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. In re Dresser, 135 Fed. Rep.
495; 68 C. C. A. 207.
It is urged that the claim is bad on its face because it showed
at most a promise to answer for the debt of another, required to
be in writing by the New York Statute of Frauds, and no such
writing was filed with the proof in accordance with the requirement of the Bankruptcy Law. Section 57b. It is unnecessary to consider whether the objection is open or otherwise
sound, because, if it is, which we are far from intimating, the
claim clearly imports a novation, that is to say, the giving and
accepting of the responsibility of the present firm in place of
that of Daniel Le Roy Dresser alone. The only question warranting the appeal is whether the sworn proof of claim is prima
fcie evidence of its allegations in case it is objected to. It is
not a question of the burden of proof in a technical sense-a

WHITNEY r. DRESSER.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

burden which does not change whatever the state of the evidence-but simply whether the sworn proof is evidence at all.
The Circuit Court of Appeals observed that the proof of claim
warrants the payment of a dividend in the absence of objection,
and, therefore, must have some probative force. In reply it is
argued that what is. done in default of opposition is no test of
what is evidence when opposition is made; that a judgment
may be entered on a declaration for want of an answer, yet a
declaration is not evidence; that it is contrary to analogy to
give effect to an ex parte affidavit, and that on general principles it is the right of any party against whom a claim is made
to have it proved, not only upon oath, but subject to crossexamination.
Notwithstanding these forcible considerations we agree with
the Circuit Court of Appeals. The prevailing opinion, not only
in the Second Circuit but elsewhere, seems to have been that
way. In re Smnner, 101 Fed. Rep. 224; In re Shaw, 109 Fed.
Rep. 780; In re Cannon, 133 Fed. Rep. 837; In re Carter, 138
Fed. Rep. 846; In re Doty, 5 Am. B. Rep. 58. See also In re
Saunders, 2 Low. 444, 446; In re Pelter, 7 Fed. Rep. 904, 906.
The alternative would be that the mere interposition of an objection by any party in interest, ยง 57d, would require the
claimant to produce evidence. For if the formal proof is no
evidence a denial of the claim must have that effect. If it
does not, then the formal proof is some evidence even when
there is testimony on the other side. The words of the statute
suggest, if they do not distinctly import, that the objector is
to go forward, and thus that the formal proof is evidence even
when put in issue. The words are: "Objections to claims shall
be heard and determined as soon," etc. Section 57f. Itis the
objection, not the claim, which is pointed out for hearing and
determination. This indicates that the claim is regarded as
having a certain standing already established by the oath.
Some force also may be allowed to the word "proof" as used
in the act. Convenience undoubtedly is on the side of this
view. Bankruptcy proceedings are more summary than ordi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

nary suits. Judges of practical experience have pointed out
the expense, embarrassments and delay which would be caused
if a formal objection necessarily should put a creditor to the
production of evidence or require a continuance. Justice is
secured by the power to continue the consideration of a claim
whenever it appears there is good reason.for it. We believe
that the understanding of the profession, the words of the
act and convenient and just administration all are on the side
of treating a sworn proof of claim as some evidence even when
it is denied.
Orderaffirmed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
SOUTHERN

CALIFORNIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
SAME.
ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. SAME.
SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. SAME.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROAT THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Nos. 158, 159, 160, 161. 162. Argued Sanuary 23, 24, 1906.-Decided February 26, 1906.
The Southern Pacific and other railroads published a guaranteed through
rate on citrus fruits from California to the Atlantic seaboard. The
shippers availing of this rate routed the goods themselves from the terminals of the initial carriers and illegally obtained rebates for the routing
from the connecting carriers. To prevent this-and the action was successful-the initial carriers republished the rate reserving the right to
route the goods beyond their own terminals. On complaint of shippers
the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered the initial carriers to desist
from enforcing the new rule, holding it violated ยง 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act by subjecting the shippers to undue disadvantage. The Circuit Court sustained the Commission but on the ground that the routing
by the carrier amounted, although no other agreement was proved in re-

