CARTER v. HAWAII.
200 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

To sustain these contentions an elaborate argument is presented and a number of cases are cited. The most direct of
the cases are Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Hagood v.
South r, 117 U. S. 52; Rolston v. Missouri Fund Commrs.,
120 U. S. 390, 411; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; Pennoyer v.
McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1. It would make this opinion too
long to review these cases. Nor is it necessary. It is enough
to say that they do not sustain the contentions of plaintiffs in
error.
Judgment affirmed.

CARTER v. HAWAII.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 144. Argued December 13, 1905.-Decided January 8, 1906.
Damon v. Hawaii, 194 U. S. 154, followed to effect that under the Hawaiian
Act of 1846, "of Publicand Private Right of Piscary," the owner of an
ahnpuaa is entitled to the adjacent fishing ground within the reef, and that
the statute created vested rights therein within the saving clause of the
organic act of the Territory repealing all laws of the Republic of Hawaii
conferring exclusive fishing rights.
The Land Commission of Hawaii was established to determine title to lands
against the Hawaiian Government, and, as that Commission rightly
treated fisheries as not within its jurisdiction, the omission to establish
the right to a fishery before that Commission does not prejudice the
right of the owner thereto.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Sidney M. Ballou, with whom Mr. Benjamin L. Marx
and Mr. J. J. Darlingtonwere on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Emil C. Peters, Attorney General of the Territory of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

Hawaii, and Mr. Fred W. Milverton for defendant in error,
submitted.
MR. JusTicE HoL~mEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding to establish the plaintiffs' rights to a
several fishery of the kind described in Daion v. Hawaii, 194
U. S. 154, and comes here under the same circumstances as that
case did. The fishery in question is a sea fishery within the reef
in Waialae Iki, island of Oahu, and is claimed by metes and
bounds in the complaint. The plaintiffs are owners of the adjacent land under a royal patent following upon an award of the
Land Commission, and the only difference between this case and
the former one is that in this the fishery is not described in the
royal patent, and that, apart from the question of prescription,
upon which we shall say nothing, the plaintiffs have to rely upon
the statutes alone. They offered evidence at the trial that, before the action of the king in 1839, those under whom the plaintiffs claim title had enjoyed from time immemorial rights similar
to those set out in the statutes, and also that they had been in
continuous, exclusive and notorious possession of the konohld
right for sixty years. They offered in short to prove that their
predecessor in title was within the statutes and therefore owned
the fishery, it not being disputed that if he did, the plaintiffs
own it now. The judge rejected the evidence and entered judgment for the defendant, and on exceptions tis judgment and
that in Damon v. Hawaii were sustained at the same time in
one opinion by the Supreme Court. 14 Hawaiian, 465.
We deem it unnecessary to repeat the ground of our intimation in the former case, that the statutes there referred to
created vested rights. We simply repeat that in our opinion
such was their effect. The fact that they neither identified the
specific grantees nor established the boundaries, is immaterial
when their purport as a grant or confirmation is decided. It is
enough that they afforded the means of identification, and that
presumably the boundaries can be fixed by reference to cxiting

WARNER v. GRAYSON.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

facts, or the application of principles which have been laid down
in cases of more or less similar kind.
The omission of the plaintiffs' predecessor in title to establish
his right to the fishery before the Land Commission does not
prejudice their case. See Kenoa v. Meek, 6 Hawaiian, 63.
That commission was established to determine the title to land3
as against the Hawaiian Government. In practice it treated
the fisheries as not within its jurisdiction, and it would seem to
have been right in its view. See Akeni v. Wong Ka Mau, 5
Hawaiian, 91.
Judgment reversed.

WARNER v. GRAYSON.
TALBOTT v. GRAYSON.
WOOD v. GRAYSON.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 89, 90, 439. Argued December 4, 5, 1905.-Decided January 8, 1906.
An owner of two adjoining parcels obtained on one of them a building loan
and erected an apartment house so near the line of the property mortgaged that ten feet of his adjoining parcel was absolutely necessary for
properly conducting the apartment. During the erection of the building, and after it was evident that such ten feet adjoining was essential
thereto, he obtained money for its completion on a second mortgage;
subsequently he conveyed both parcels subject to the two mortgages
on the parcel built on and also to a separate mortgage on the adjoining
vacant parcel. The mortgages conveyed the property, together with
the improvements, ways, easements, rights, privileges and appurtenances
appertaining thereto. On foreclosure of the mortgages held, that:
Although an easement for light and air may not have been created by implication, still, under the wording of the conveyances and the circumstances of the case, an easement was created in favor of the mortgagees
of the parcel built on against the original owner, and also against his
grantee who took with notice, in the ten-foot strip adjoining the parcel
on which the building was erected.
VOL. CC-T

