STRICKLEY v. HIGHLAND BOY MINING CO.
200 U. S.

527

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

STRICKLEY v. HIGHLAND BOY GOLD MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 172. Argued January 25, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.

If a state statute as construed by the highest court of the State is constitutional this court will follow that construction.
There is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment which prevents a State in
carrying out its declared public policy from requiring individuals to
make to each other, on due compensation, such concessions as the public
welfare demands; and the statute of Utah providing that eminent domain
may be exercised for railways and other means to facilitate the working
of mines is not unconstitutional. Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361, followed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Arthur Brown and Mr. Frank Hoffman for plaintiffs in

error:
The construction of this tramway was not a matter of public
necessity, but it was constructed solely for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the cost of transporting the defendant
in error's ores from its mines to the depot. The only use to
which this tramway is put is for the transportation of the ores
of the defendant in error. The public is in no manner interested in it, nor does the public derive any benefit from the same.
In the very nature of its construction and in the manner of its
operation, no passengers can be carried over the tramway, nor
does it receive, transport or deliver any freight of any kind or
description. The defendant has not even the excuse that it is
necessary or a matter of necessity that this tramway was built
for the operation of its mines. Its only claim is that it is a
matter of convenience and the sole object and purpose of its
construction was to save a few cents a ton in the cost of transporting its ores.
The taking in this case was for a private use, and contrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

200 U. S.

to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. Consolidated
Channel Company v. CentralPacific Railroad Co., 51 California,
269; People v. Pittsburgh &c. Railroad Co., 53 California, 694;
Sholl v. German Coal Co., 118 Illinois, 429; Nesbit v. Trumbo,
29 Illinois, 110; Bankhead v. Brown, 25 Iowa, 540; Edgewood
Railroad Co.'s Appeal, 79 Pa. St. 257; Coster v. Tidewater Company, 18 N. J. Eq. 54; Kent's Commentaries, vol. 2, p. 339;
Lewis on Eminent Domain, § 165; Mlills on Eminent Domain,
§§ 23, 26, 27.
Under all of the authorities cited, no legislature or court has
the authority to take property from A and give it to B, when
it is as apparent as it is in this case that the only object that
can be accomplished by such transfer is to enable B to more
successfully conduct the same business that A is conducting,
and to condemn A's property to the use of B for the same purposes for which A has already appropriated it, and especially
is this so where the only benefit to be derived is that B may
more successfully, economically and conveniently conduct mining enterprises.
Mr. George Sutherland,with whom Mr. Waldemar Van Cott
and Mr. E. M. Allison, Jr., were on the brief, for defendants
in error:
This court has no jurisdiction. The constitutional question
was not specially set up or claimed. Rule 21; § 709, Rev. Stat.;
Morrison v. Watson, 154 U. S. 115; Bolln v. Nebraska, 176
U. S. 90.
In order to determine whether a particular use is a public
one, it is first necessary to ascertain whether such use furthers
the general public policy of the State and contributes to the
public welfare.
Utah is crossed by great mountain ranges. Long, narrow
valleys lie between these ranges and it is impossible for mines
in these mountains to be furnished with railway facilities, but
it is practicable to construct aerial tramways.
One of the great public uses of Utah, namely, irrigation, has

STRICKLEY v. HIGHLAND BOY MINING CO.

529

Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S

been judicially declared to be a public use. Clark v. Nash, 198
U. S. 361. No less important to the public policy and general
welfare of the State of Utah is the development of its mineral
resources. The legislature of Utah has declared the great public necessity of developing the mineral wealth of the State.
The legislature has declared that it is a public use to construct
aerial tramways for the development of its mineral resources.
The District Court and the Supreme Court of Utah have declared in this case that under the statute so providing the construction of aerial tramways for the development of mineral
resources is a public use. See also Fall Brook IrrigationDist.
v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112.
The legislative declaration of a public use will be respected
by the courts, unless such declaration is clearly without reasonable foundation. United Sates v. Gettysburg Electric Ry.
Co., 160 U. S. 668; Backus v. Fort Street Ry. Co., 169 U. S.
568.
A public use is not determined simply by the question
whether a physical use is made by the public; but the question is deeper and depends upon whether the use subserves the
public good or tends to that end. Olcott v. Supervisors, 16
Wall. 694; Gibson v. Mason, 5 Nevada, 308; Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113.
Mit. JusTicE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding begun by the defendant in error, a
mining corporation, to condemn a right of way for an aerial
bucket line across a placer mining claim of the plaintiffs in
error. The mining corporation owns mines high up in Bingham Canyon, in West Mountain Mining District, Salt Lake
County, Utah, and is using the line or way to carry ores, etc.,
for itself and others from the mines, in suspended buckets,
down to the railway station, two miles distant and twelve
hundred feet below. Before building the way it made diligent
inquiry but could not discover the owner of the placer claim
VOL. cC-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

in question, Strickley standing by without objecting or making
known his rights while the company put up its structure. The
trial court found the facts and made an order of condemnatioi. This order recites that the mining company has paid
into court the value of the right of way, as found, and costs,
describes the right of way by metes and bounds and specifies
that the same is to be used for the erection of certain towers
to support the cables of the line, with a right to drive along
the way when necessary for repairs, the mining company to
move the towers as often as reasonably required by the owners
of the claim for using and working the said claim. The foregoing final order was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. 78 Pac. Rep. 296. The case then was brought
here.
The plaintiffs in error set up in their answer to the condemnation proceedings that the right of way demanded is
solely for private use, and that the taking of their land for that
purpose is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. The mining company on
the other hand relies upon the statutes of Utah, which provide
that "the right of eminent domain may be exercised in behalf
(6) Roads, railroads,
of the following public uses: . .
tramways, tunnels, ditches, flumes, pipes and dumping places
to facilitate the milling, smelting or other reduction of ores,
or the working of mines." In view of the decision of the state
court we assume that the condemnation was authorized by
the state laws, subject only to the question whether those laws
as construed are consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment.
Some objections to this view were mentioned, but they are not
open. If the statutes are constitutional as construed, we
follow the construction of the state court. On the other hand,
there is no ground for the suggestion that the claim by the
plaintiffs in error of their rights under the Fourteenth Amendment does not appear sufficiently on the record. The suggestion was not pressed.
The single question, then, is the constitutionality of the

STRICKLEY v. HIGHLAND BOY MINING CO.
200 U. S.

531

Opinion of the Court.

Utah statute, and the particular facts of the case are material
only as showing the length to which the statute is held to go.
There is nothing to add with regard to them, unless it be the
finding that the taking of the strip across the placer claim
is necessary for the aerial line and is consistent with the use
of all of the claim by the plaintiffs in error for mining, except
to the extent of the temporary interference over a limited
space by four towers, each about seven and a half feet square
and removable as stated above.
The question thus narrowed is pretty nearly answered by
the recent decision in Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361. That case
established the constitutionality of the Utah statute, so far as
it permitted the condenmation of land for the irrigation of
other land belonging to a private person, in pursuance of the
declared policy of the State. In discussing what constitutes
a public use it recognized the inadequacy of use by the general
public as a universal test. While emphasizing the great caution
necessary to be shown, it proved that there might be exceptional times and places in which the very foundations of public
welfare could not be laid without requiring concessions from
individuals to each other upon due compensation which under
other circumstances would be left wholly to voluntary conselit.
In such unusual cases there is nothing in the Fourtecnth
Amendment which prevents a State from requiring such concessions. If the state constitution restricts the legislature
within narrower bounds that is a local affair, and must be
left where the state court leaves it in a case like the one at
bar.
In the opinion of the legislature and the Supreme Court of
Utah the public welfare of that State demands that aerial
lines between the mines upon its mountain sides and the railways in the valleys below should not be made impossible by
the refusal of a private owner to sell the right to cross his land.
The Constitution of the United States does not require us to
say that they are wrong. If, as seems to be assumed in the
brief for the defendant in error, the finding that the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

200 U. S.

is a carrier for itself and others means that the line is dedicated
to carrying for whatever portion of the public may desire to
use it, the foundation of the argument on the other side disappears.
Judgment affirmed.

WHITNEY v. DRESSER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 180.

Argued January 26, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.

Bankruptcy proceedings are more summary than ordinary suits, and a
sworn proof of claim against the bankrupt is prima facie evidence of its
allegations in case it is objected to.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George H. Gilman for appellant:
The burden of proof as to claims against a bankrupt estate
is upon the claimant, and he is not relieved of it by the ex parte
statements in his proof of claim.
It is of course a general principle, applicable to every form
of legal or equitable procedure in courts administering the
Anglo-Saxon system of jurisprudence, that a mere ex parte
affidavit is not to be treated as legal evidence in support of
the claim embodied therein, if objection is made to the claim
and the issues thereby raised are brought to trial. Loveland
on Bankruptcy, 2d ed., 341.
The question has come up under state insolvency laws, and
proofs of claim under those laws are always treated, if an issue
is raised by objections filed thereto, as in the nature of pleadings, which must be supported by legal evidence. This has

