OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

gence on the part of the defendant. Having done this, he need
not go farther in those jurisdictions where the burden of proof
is on the defendant to show contributory negligence. In other
words, if there is no evidence which speaks one way or the
other with reference to contributory negligence of the person
killed, then it is presumed that.there was no such negligence.
Thompson on the Law of Negligence, see. 401; Baltimore &
Potomac R. R. Company v. Landrigan,191 U. S. 461; Texas &
Pacific Railway Company v. Gentry, 163 U. S. 353. But the
negligence of a defendant cannot be inferred from a presumption of care on the part of the person killed. A presumption
in the performance of duty attends the defendant as well as
the person killed. It must be overcome by direct evidence.
One presumption cannot be built upon another. Douglas v.
Mitchell, 35 Pa. St. 440; Philadelphia &c. Railway Company
v. Henrice, 92 Pa. St. 431; Yarnell v. Kansas City &c. Railroad
Company, 113 Missouri, 570.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK AND CUBA MAIL
STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 116. Argued January 22, 23, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.
Payment of an illegal demand with full knowledge of the facts rendering
it illegal, without an immediate and urgent necessity therefor, or unless
to release or prevent immediate seizure of person or property, is a voluntary payment and not one under duress.
Affixing stamps required by the war revenue act of 1898 to the manifest
of a vessel in order to obtain the clearance required by ยง 4197, Rev. Stat.,
without presenting any claim or protest to the collector of internal revenue
from whom the stamps are purchased or to the collector of the port from

UNITED STATES v. CUBA MAIL S. S. CO.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

whom the clearance is obtained, is not a payment under duress, but a
voluntary payment, and the amount paid for the stamps cannot be recovered either on the ground of the unconstitutionality of the provisions
of the war revenue act requiring the stamps to be affixed, or under the
act of May 12, 1900, providing for the redemption of stamps used by
mistake. Chesebrough v. United States, 192 U. S. 253, followed.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attornej General Robb for the United States:
This action must fail, as the stamps were purchased voluntarily and without protest, and affixed and canceled voluntarily and without protest. Chesebrough v. United States, 192
U. S. 253.
There was no notice or protest at the time of the purchase
or affixing of these stamps. They were purchased from a
lealer in internal revenue stamps who was not in any sense
an agent of the Government and the purchase was purely
voluntary.
Mr. John G. Carlisle,with whom Mr. William Edmond Curtis
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
These stamps were purchased, affixed and canceled by the
petitioner under compulsion and through fear of criminal prosecution, and in order to obtain clearance papers which could
not have been procured without delivering to the collector of
the Port of New York the outward foreign manifests of cargo
stamped as aforesaid, and without which clearance papers the
vessels would have been prevented from sailing or would have
become liable for the penalty imposed by ยง 4197, Rev.
Stat.
The provision of the act of June 13, 1898, purporting to impose a stamp duty upon export manifests, is unconstitutional,
as undertaking to lay a tax or duty on exports in violation of
Article I, section 9, clause 5 of the Constitution of the United
States, and the duties represented by the internal revenue
stamps, which petitioner was compelled to affix to export man-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

ifests, were, therefore, wrongfully collected, and the money
paid by petitioner for said stamps unlawfully exacted.
The unconstitutionality of this stamp duty on export manifests was settled by Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283,
holding that the stamp duty of ten cents on every export bill
of lading was unconstitutional, as a tax on exports, and this
decision controls the case at bar.
In Chesebroughv. United States, 192 U. S. 253, this court held
that a purchase of internal revenue stamps for the purpose of
affixing them to a conveyance of real estate pursuant to a
contract of sale was voluntary.
The distinction between the Chesebrough case and the case
at bar is obvious. In the case at bar, ยง4197, Rev. Stat., prevented the petitioner's vessels from obtaining clearance and
sailing for a foreign port, unless the internal revenue stamps
in question were purchased and affixed, and this constituted
coercion or duress, not as between the petitioner and some third
party, but as between the petitioner and the very authorities
which demanded and compelled the payment of the tax.
This action being based upon the act of May 12, 1900, and
not on the provisions of the Revised Statutes discussed in the
Chesebrough case, neither protest nor duress in connection with
the payment of the duties is necessary to sustain the action.
This act says nothing about protest or compulsion. In most
of the instances enumerated in it there could be no question
of duress or protest.
AR. JusTIcpIMcK.DNNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error filed a petition in the District Court
to recover the amount paid by it for documentary stamps used
on manifests of cargoes on certain vessels bound to foreign
ports, as required by an act of Congress approved June 13,
1898, entitled "An act to provide ways and means to meet war
expenditures, and for other purposes."
The United States demurred to the petition on the ground

UNITED STATES v. CUBA MAIL S. S. CO.
200 U. S.

491

Opinion of the Court.

that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a claim against
it. The demurrer was overruled and judgment entered for the
sum of $240, the amount of claim. 125 Fed. Rep. 320.
It appears from the opinion of the District Court that the
constitutionality of the tax was alone submitted for decision,
and the court, upon the authority of Fairbankv. United States,
181 U. S.283, held that the tax was unconstitutional.
In the Fairbankcase it was held that a stamp tax on bills of
lading imposed by the act of June 13 was a tax on exports, and
therefore void. In the case at bar the District Court observed
"that the essential character of the stamp tax on manifests
was that of a tax on exports, in the same sense in which a
stamp on a bill of lading was a tax on exports." The United
States now concedes the correctness of this ruling, but urges
nevertheless that the judgment for defendant in error was erroneous because, as is contended, the stamps were purchased and
affixed voluntarily and without protest. For this, (hesebrough v. United States, 192 U. S.253, is adduced as controlling.
In that case recovery was sought for the price of stamps affixed
to a deed in compliance with Schedule A of the act of June 13,
1898. The unconstitutionality of the act was asserted by
Chesebrough but was not discussed by the court. The decision was based on the ground that the payment of the taxes
was voluntary. Chesebrough contended that section 7 of the
act, which made it a misdemeanor to omit to fix stamps to
the instruments enumerated, constituted such coercion as made
the payment involuntary, and besides that, his vendee was unwilling to accept the deed without the stamps required by the
act, and that he "under compulsion of said law," in order to
receive the consideration for his conveyance, to enable his deed
to be recorded and received in evidence and to give a title free
from doubt, purchased stamps from the United States collector
of internal revenue and placed them upon the deed.
What is the duress alleged in the case at bar? The averment of the petition is:
"That said act being in force, under compulsion and through

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

fear of criminal prosecution, and in order to obtain clearance
papers which could not have been procured without the delivery to the collector of the port of Ncw York, of outward foreign
manifests of cargo stamped as aforesaid, and without which
clearance papers the vessels hereinafter named would have been
prevented from sailing, or would have hecome liable for the
penalty imposed by section 4197 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, said James E. Ward & Company, for and on behalf of your petitioner and as such general agents as aforesaid,
purchased and affixed to the said outward foreign manifests of
cargo and canceled internal revenue documentary stamps of
the United States of the face value of two hundred and forty
dollars ($240), as appears more fully by the exhibit hereto annexed and made a part of this petition, and marked 'Exhibit A,'
which contains the name of the vessel, the date of delivery to
said collector of the outward foreign manifests of cargo, the alleged tax on which is sought to be recovered, and the face
value of the documentary internal revenue stamp affixed
thereto."
It is alleged that the stamps were purchased from Walter H.
Stiner, a dealer in internal revenue stamps, on various days
subsequent to January 1, 1900, and that Stiner purchased them
from the collector of internal revenue, and the proceeds thereof
were duly paid over to the United States.
In this case, as in the Chesebrough case, the collector was not
informed at the time of the purchase of the particular purpose
for which the stamps were to be used, and no intimation was
given him, written or oral, that defendant in error claimed that
the law regarding such stamps was unconstitutional, and that
it was making the purchase under duress. And, expressing the
principle to be applied, the court said, in the Chesebrough case,
"even a protest or notice will not avail if the payment be made
voluntarily, with full knowledge of all the circumstances, and
without any coercion by the actual or threatened exercise of
power possessed, or supposed to be possessed, by the party exacting or receiving the payment, over the person or property

UNITED STATES v. CUBA MAIL S. S. CO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the party making the payment, from which the latter has
no other means of immediate relief than such payment."
Applying that principle to the allegation that Chesebrough's
vendee was unwilling to accept an unstamped conveyance, it
was said "if that constituted duress as between Chesebrough
and his building company, it was a matter with which the collector had nothing to do. On the face of the petition the purchase was purely voluntary and made under mutual mistake
of law if the law were unconstitutional."
It is, however, insisted that these observations are not apposite to the case at bar. The coercion, it is contended, that
Chesebrough alleged was between him and some third party.
In the case at bar the coercion was exerted "between the petitioner [defendant in error] and the very authorities who demanded and compelled the payment of the tax," through section 4197 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. This
section requires the master or person in charge of any vessel
bound for a foreign port to deliver to the collector of the district a manifest, and upon its delivery the collector shall grant
a clearance for such vessel and her cargo. It is provided:
"If any vessel bound to a foreign port departs on her voyage
to such foreign port without delivering such manifest and obtaining a clearance, as hereby required, the master or other
person having the charge or command of such vessel shall be
liable to a penalty of five hundred dollars for every such offense." Section 4197, Revised Statutes of the United States.
We do not think this section makes a difference in the cases.
The destination of the stamps cannot affect the payment of
the tax which they represent. It may be more or less of an
inducement to submit to the tax, but who can determine the
degoee? The loss of a purchaser, as in the Chesebrough case,
may be of much more concern than the payment of the penalty for violating the provisions of section 4197. Besides, whatever element of coercion there was came from the United States,
and it was not as immediate in the case of the manifests as in
the case of the deed. The applicable principle is expressed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

the extract from the Cliesebrough case, which we have given
above. It is stated in Railroad Company v. Comrmissioners,98
U. S. 541, and quoted from that case in Little v. Bowers, 134
U. S.547, at page 554, as follows: "Where a party pays an illegal demand, with full knowledge of all the facts which render
such demand illegal, without an immediate and urgent necessity therefor, or unless to release his person or property from
detention, or to prevent an immediate seizure of his person or
property, such payment must be deemed voluntary, and cannot be recovered back."
There was no such imminence in the duress charged by defendant in error. It purchased the stamps of a dealer at various times. No information was given to the collector of
internal revenue of the particular purpose nor claim that the
law was unconstitutional. There was no claim of the collector
of the port from whom the clearances were asked that defendant in error was acting under the restraint of the law and yielding only to enable his ships to depart to their destinations. All
determining conditions, thercfore, are the same as in the Chesebrough case.
2. It is, however, contended that even though the stamps
were purchased without any duress or coercion, that under the
act of Congress of May 12, 1900, entitled "An act authorizing
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to redeem or make allowance for internal revenue stamps," the Commissioner must
make allowance for the stamps used by the petitioner, and
the Commissioner having declined to do so the defendant in
error has a right of action under the Tucker Act. The provision of the act of May 12, relied on, is as follows:
"That the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, subject to
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, may,
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the facts, make allowance for or redeem such of the stamps, issued under authority
of law, to denote the payment of any internal revenue tax, as
may have been spoiled, destroyed or rendered useless or unfit
for the purpose intended, or for which the owner may have no

UNITED STATES v. CUBA MAIL S. S. CO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

use, or which through some mistake may have been improperly
or unnecessarily used, or where the rates or duties represented
thereby have been excessive in amount, paid in error, or in any
manner wrongfully collected."
The argument is that by this provision "the question of
duress or compulsion is taken entirely out of the case," because in most of the instances enumerated "it is inconceivable
that there should be any protest or duress." And it is further
alleged that the act of 1900 was not considered in the Chesebrough case. It certainly does not follow that, because in some
instances, protest or duress cannot exist, that they cannot exist
in other cases, nor that the statute intended to destroy the
difference between voluntary and involuntary payment of taxes.
In the Chesebrough case section 3220 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States was considered. It authorized the Commissioner of Internal Revenue "to remit, refund and pay back
all taxes . . . that appear to be unjustly assessed or exclusive in amount, or in any mannerwrongfully collected." The
words in italics are identical with those in the act of May 12,
which are relied on by defendant in error. Commenting on
section 3220, the court said, in the Chesebrough case: "It is
argued that the provisions of section 3220, for the repayment
of judgments against the collector, rendered protest or notice
unnecessary for his protection, but it was clearly demanded for
the protection of the Government in conducting the extensive
business of dealing in stamps, which were sold and delivered
in quantities, and without it there would not be the slightest
vestige of involuntary payment in transactions like that under
consideration. And we find no right of recovery, expressly or
by necessary implication, conferred by statute, in such circumstances."
We, therefore, think that this case is governed by the
Chesebrough case, and on its authority judgment is reversed
and case remanded with directions to sustain the demurrer.

