OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

Powers, 114 Kentucky, 237, where section 281 was construed
the same way. The court, in its construction of section 281,
followed the construction established by prior cases, and did not
make a discriminating application of that section against plaintiff in error. He was, therefore, not deprived of the equal protection of the laws.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN,

concurring: The record does not, in

my judgment, show an absence of the due process of law enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, as that Amendment has been interpreted by this
court. For that reason, and without approving all that is said
in the opinion of the court, I concur in the judgment of affirmance.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. DEER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 164. Submitted December 14, 19(5.-Decided January 2. 1906.
Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215, followed to the effect that full faith and
credit must be given to a judgment rendered against, and paid by, defendant as plaintiff's garnishee in a State, other than that in which plaintiff resides, and in which defendant does business and is liable to process
and suit.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Jones for plaintiff in error:
Full faith and credit should have been given by the Alabama courts to th- judicial proceedings of said Florida court.
The garnishment judgment and its payment in Florida constituted a complete defense to the suit in Alabama. The

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD v. DEER. 177
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

failure to so recognize it vwas a violation of ยง 1, Art. IY., Constitution of the United States, and act of Congress, May 26,
1790, Rev. Stat., ยง 905. See Chi., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Sturm,
174 U. S. 710; St. L. Ry. Co. v. Bartels, 56 S. W. Rep. 152;
Railway Co. v. Thompson, 31 Kansas, 194; Fithian v. Railroad Co., 31 Pa. St. 114; Railroad Co. v. Crane, 102 Illinois,
249; Plimpton v. Bigelow, 93 N. Y. 601.
The provisions of the Florida statutes .were strictly complied
with and the statutes are valid. King v. Cross, 175 U. S.
396; Rothschild v. Knight, 184 U. S. 341. The Florida record
was valid on its face. Maxwell v. Stewart, 21 Wall. 71. Foreign corporations doing business by agents within a State are
treated as residents of the State, and debts due from them
to non-residents are garnishable in that State. Lancashire
Ins. Co. v. Corbetts, 165 Illinois, 592; National Fire Ins. Co.
v. Chambers, 53 N. J. Eq. 468; Selma R. Co. v. Tyson, 48
Georgia, 351; German Bank v. Am. Fire Ins. Co., 83 Iowa,
491; Consens v. Lorejoy, 81 Maine, 467; Root on Garnishment,
ยง 245; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Moore, 31 Nebraska, 629, and
cases cited.
Unless the full faith and credit contemplated by the provisions of the Federal Constitution, and the Federal statutes
quoted, be given, the plaintiff in error must suffer by twice
paying the same debt. It has no alternative.
If defendant in error was aggrieved at the Florida judgment, his remedy was by appeal or other appropriate proceedings in the Florida court. The Florida judgment could not
be attacked collaterally in another forum. Laing v. Rigney,
160 U. S. 542.
There was no appearance for defendant in error.

Mu. JUSTICE HOL Es delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover a debt admitted to have been
due to the plaintiff, the defendant in error. But it was agreed
VOL. (cC-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

in the trial court that a suit was brought by one Brock against
the plaintiff in Florida, in which the railroad company, the
present plaintiff in error, was summoned as garnishee, judgment
was recovered against the latter as such for the sum now in
suit, and the sum paid by it into court, all before the present
suit was begun. The proceedings in Florida were strictly in
accordance with the laws of that State. The railroad company did business there and was permanently liable to service
and suit, and the defendant, the present defendant in error,
was notified by such publication as the statutes of Florida
prescribed. He was not, however, a resident of the State,
but lived in Alabama, and the Supreme Court of the latter
State affirmed a judgment in bis favor on the ground that
the Florida court had no jurisdiction to render the judgment
relied on as a defense.
Whatever doubts may have been felt when this case was
decided below are disposed of by the recent decision in Harris
v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215. There the garnishee was only temporarily present in Maryland, where the first judgment was rendered, and the defendant in that judgment was absent from
the State, and served only as the defendant in error was served
in Florida. Yet the Maryland judgment was held valid, and
a decision by the Supreme Court of North Carolina denying
the jurisdiction of the Maryland court was reversed. In the
present case the railroad company was permanently present
in the State where it was served. In view of the full and
recent discussion in Harris v. Balk we think it unnecessary
to say more.
Judgment reversed.

