" TOM HONG v. UNITED STATES.
1931U. S.

Statement of the Case.

agreed to convey an interest to be conveyed after patent
issued, which will defeat his claim and forfeit the right acquired by planting the trees and complying with the terms
of the law. Had Congress intended such result to follow from
the alienation of an interest after entry in good faith it would
have so declared in the law. Myers v. Croft, 13 Wall. 291.
To sustain the contentions of the plaintiff in error would be
to incorporate by judicial decision a prohibition against the
alienation of an interest in the lands, not found in the statute
or required by the policy of the law upon the subject.

The decree of the state court is
Affinmed.

TOM HONG, alias HOM POE, v. UNITED STATES.
TOM DOCK. alias HOM DOCK, v. UNITED STATES.
LEE KIT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 310, 311, 313. Argued January 12, 1904.-Decided Iarch 21, 1904.
Chinese persons who were in this country prior to May 5, 1892, and who
from 1891 to 1894, carried on a mercantile business under a corporate
title, although the business was not conducted in their individual names,
and who had books of account and articles of partnership, were merchants
within the meaning of section 6 of the act of May 5, 1892, as amended by
the act of November 3, 1893, and were not required to register under the
terms of that act, and cannot be deported for failing so to do, when
found without registration certificates.
When the Government allows many years to elapse before commencing
prosecutions, allowances may be made which will excuse the failure to
procure the books of accounts and articles of partnership.
THESE cases were considered together and are appeals from
an order entered in the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of New York, affirming an order

OCrOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

made by a United States commissioner, directing the deportation of the appellants from the United States to China upon
the ground that they were found within this country without
certificates of registration, as required by the act of May 5,
1892, as amended November 3, 1893. 1 Comp. Stat. 1901,
1322.
The complaint charges that the appellants, being Chinese
laborers, not entitled to remain in this country without certificates of registration, did willfully and knowingly fail to
obtain the certificates required by law, and, having unlawfully come within the United States, were found without
certificates of registration 'within the jurisdiction thereof, in
the Eastern District of the State of New York.
Testimony was heard in the cases, and at the conclusion of
the hearings the commissioner made an order finding each of
the appellants a Chinese laborer, without a certificate of registration as required by law, and not a merchant doing business
within the meaning of the act of 1892 as amended 1893, and
not lawfully entitled to remain in this country.
In each of the cases the commissioner, in addition to the
judgment just recited, filed a finding, which was made part. of
the record by order of the District Court, as follows:
"In the matter of Lee Kit, Tom Hong and Tom Dock.
"Before B. L. Benedict, U. S. Commissioner.
"In these three cases it is urged on one side that the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals of this circuit, in the case of
United States v. Pin Kwan, requires the commissioner to decide
that these three Chinese persons were not merchants within
the meaning of the statute in 1894, and that being now laborers
without certificate of residence they must be deported. On
the other side it is urged that the decision of the court in that
case was only that the merchant's certificate that Pin Kwan
had was not the certificate required by law, and could not be
effective to allow his remaining here, and that the discussion
of the effect and weight of evidence which the court itself had
said it was error to admit (a certificate being the sole proof

TOM HONG v. UNITED STATES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

admissible) goes merely to show what the court thought of the
evidence in that case which differed from the present one.
Admitting the distinction I do not think the United States
commissioner is at liberty to disregard carefully expressed
language of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the circuit, even
though a dictum of the court as to the precise question before
it. The proofs furnished in this case are sufficient to show
that these three persons were engaged in business rather than
in manual labor in 1894, but not to show a real interest of each
in the business as partners; they do not to my mind clearly
establish facts which would bring these persons within the
statute as merchants. It follows that an order for deportation for each one must be made.
"I certify the foregoing to be a true copy of an original
decision made by me in the cases of The United States v. Lee
Kit, The United States v. Tom Hong and The United States v.
Tom Dock, upon application for orders of deportation of the
said Lee Kit, Tom Hong and Tom Dock, made on the 18th
day of December, 1902, and remaining on file in my office.
[L. s.]
"B. LINCOLN BENEDICT,
"U. S. Comm."
Mr. Terence J. McManus, with whom Mr. Frank S. Black
and Mr. Russell H. Landale were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Max J. Kohler, by leave of the court, filed a brief in aid
of appellants on behalf of the Chinese Charitable and Benevolent Association of New York.
Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt for the United States.1
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention of the appellants that their right to remain
in the United States is enlarged by the treaty with China of
' These cases were argued simultaneously with, on the same briefs, and
by the same counsel as Ah How v. United States, reported ante, p. 65.
that case for abstracts of arguments.

See

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

December, 1894, considered with ยง 1 of the act of April 29,
1902, c. 641, 32 Stat. 176, continuing all laws then in force so
far as the same are not inconsistent with treaty obligations in
its effect upon the acts of 1892, as amended in 1893, is disposed
of by the case of Ah How v. United States, decided at this term,
ante p. 65.
For the first time in the history of legislation, having for its
purpose the exclusion of certain Chinese from the country, or
their deportation when here in violation of the statutes of the
United States, and the admission of certain others to the
country, or giving the right to remain, Congress, by the act
of May, 1892, as amended November 3, 1893, defined those
theretofore designated generally as merchants or laborers:
"SEc. 2. The words 'laborer' or 'laborers,' wherever used in
this act, or in the act to which this is an amendment, sh'all be
construed to mean both skilled and unskilled manual laborers,
including Chinese employed in mining, fishing, huckstering,
peddling, laundrymen or those engaged in taking, drying, or
otherwise preserving shell or other fish for home consumltion
or exportation.
"The term 'merchant,' as employed herein and in the acts
of which this is amendatory, shall have the following meaning
and none other: A merchant is a person engaged in buying and
selling merchandise, at a fixed place of business, which business is conducted in his name, and who during the time he
claims to be engaged as a merchant does not engage in the
performance of any manual labor, except such as is necessary
in the conduct of his business as such merchant."
It is contended by the appellants that as by section six of
the act as amended November 3, 1893, it is made the duty of
certain Chinese laborers within the limits of the United States
to apply to the collector of their respective districts within six
months after the passage of the act for a certificate of registration, and in default of compliance with the terms of the act,
to be subject to arrest and deportation, unless, for certain
reasons given in the statute excusing them, they have been

TOM HONG v. UNITED STATES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

unable to procure the certificate required by law; and as section two of the same act specifically defines what is meant by
a "laborer," that only such as come within the statutory provision as "laborers" are liable to deportation upon an affirmative finding of this fact as to the person apprehended.
On the part of the Government, it is contended that when
a Chinese laborer is apprehended under this act and found
without a certificate, and claiming to have been a merchant
during the period of registration, he is subject to deportation
unless it is affirmatively shown to the satisfaction of the commissioner or court that he was a merchant, as defined by the
statute, during such period of registration.
We do not find it necessary to determine this question in
the cases now before us, for in the opinion of the court the testimony shows that the appellants were "merchants" within the
definition laid down by the law. The testimony shows, without contradiction and by disinterested witnesses other than
Chinese, that the appellants had been in this country for
periods varying from ten to thirty years. That in the years
from 1891 to 1895 they were carrying on a Chinese grocery
in New York, known as the Kwong Yen Ti Company. In
that period they bought and sold groceries, kept books of account and had articles of partnership. It is a fact that the
testimony does not disclose, as to any of them, that the business was conducted in his name, as the literal interpretation
of the law would seem to require, but it was carried on in a
company name, which (lid not include that of any of the
partners. The fact of buying and selling at a fixed place of
business in a real partnership was established without contradiction.
It is true that after the lapse of so many years the appellants,
when taken before the commissioner, were unable to produce
the books or articles of copartnership of the firm. But some
allowance must be made for the long delay in their prosecution
by the Government, and the natural loss of such testimony
years after the firm's transactions were closed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S

The commissioner was doubtless influenced by the intimation in the Pin Kwan Case, 100 Fed. Rep. 609, to the effect
that the statutory requirements as to the conduct of the business in the name of the parties necessitated the appearance of
the name in the style in which the business was conducted.
But this would be too narrow a construction of the statute.
The purpose of the law is to prevent those who have no real
interest in the business from making fraudulent claims to the
benefits of the act as merchants. The interest in the business
must be substantial and real and in the name of the )crson
claiming to own it, but the partner's name need not necessarily appear in the firm style when carried on, as is usual
among the Chinese, under a company name, which does not
include individual names. The main purpose is to require
the person to be a bona fide merchant, having in his own name
and right an interest in a real mercantile business, in which
he does only the manual labor necessary to the conduct thereof.
This conclusion has been reached in a number of Federal cases,
in which the matter has been given careful consideration.
Perhaps the leading one was decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, Lee Kan v. United States, 62
Fed. Rep. 914, the opinion being delivered by Mr. Justice MeKenna, then circuit judge, in which the subject was so fully
considered as to leave little to be added to the discussion.
See also Wong Ah Gah v. United States, 94 Fed. Rep. 831;
Wong Fong v. United States, 77 Fed. Rep. 168.
It is true that the findings of the commissioner and in the
District Court in cases of this character should ordinarily be
followed in this court, and will only be reconsidered when it
is clear that an incorrect conclusion has been reached. Chin
Bak Kan v. United States, 186 U. S. 193, 201. But in the
present case no new matter seems to have been admitted in
the District Court, and the finding made by the commissioner
as to these appellants is of an uncertain nature when the judgment is read in connection with the special finding filed by
that officer and made part of the record in each case, in which

