OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Argument for Petitioners.

193 U. S.

GREAT SOUTHERN FIRE PROOF HOTEL COMPANY v.
JONES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
Argued February 29, Mareh 1, 1904.-Decided April 4,1904.

The object of giving to the national courts jurisdiction to administer
the laws of the States in controversies between citizens of different States
was to institute independent tribunals which would be unaffected by
local prejudices and sectional views, and it would be a dereliction of their
duty not to exercise an independent judgment in cases not foreclosed by
previous adjudication. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20.
Without qualifying the principles that, in all cases, it is the duty of the
Federal court to lean to an agreement with the state court, where the
issue relates to matters depending upon the construction of the Constitution or laws of the State, and that the Federal court is bound to accept
decisions of the state courts construing state statutes rendered prior to the
making of the contract on which the cause of action is based, such duty
does not exist in regard to decisions of the state court rendered after the
cause of action has arisen, although before the action itself was coinmenced, when the Federal court in the exercise of its independent judgment reaches a different conclusion from the state court.
For the reasons stated in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 86
Fed. Rep. 371, §§ 3184, 3185, of the Revised Statutes of Ohio relating to
the filing and enforcement of mechanics' liens, do not deprive the owner
of his property without due process of law nor unreasonably interfere with
his liberty of contract and are not in these or other respects repugnant to
the constitution of that State or the Constitution of the United States.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. Gilbert H. Stewart and Mr. Henry Gumble for petitioners:
The mechanic's lien law of Ohio of 1894 is unconstitutional
because: (a) It denies to the owner of real estate the right of
acquiring, possessing and protecting property, and the right
of contract in relation thereto, of making and enforcing contracts, of fixing and limiting the consideration therefor, and
the manner and time of payment, and is not for the equal
protection and benefit of the people, and therefore contravenes sections 1 and 2 of the Bill of Rights.

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

(b) It deprives the real estate owner of his property without
due process of law, and of the equal protection of the laws,
abridges the privileges of citizens of the United States as
regards the rights of contract and is therefore unconstitutional
and in conflict with sec. 1, art. XIV, of the Constitution of the
United States. Boisot on Mech. Liens, § 228; Lion Hardware
Co. v. Young, 55 Ohio St. 423; Thaxter v. Williams, 14 Pick.
49, 53; People v. Gilson, 109 N. Y. 398; Butchers' Union Co. v.
Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 755; Association v. Crescent City
Co., 1 App. 398; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 172.
The Ohio Supreme Court held that in so far as the law gives
a lien on the property of the owners to sub-contractors, laborers
and those who furnish machinery, material or tile to the contractor, is unconstitutional and void. All to whom the contractor becomes indebted in the performance of his contract,
are bound by the terms of the contract between him and the
owner. And for similar cases see State v. Iron Co., 55 Ohio
St. 442; Cleveland v. ConstructionCo., 67 Ohio St. 197; Palmer
v. Tingle, 9 0. C. C. 708; Overton on Liens, § 553; Stewart v.
Wright, 52 Iowa, 335; John Spry Lumber Co. v. Trust Co., 77
Michigan, 199; Schroeder v. Galland, 134 Pa. St. 277; Mellis
v. Race, 78 Michigan, 80; Snell v. Race, 78 Michigan, 334;
I1aters v. Wolfe, 162 Pa. St. 153, 170; lfeyer v. Berlandi, 39
Minnesota, 438; O'Neil v. St. Olaf's School, 26 Minnesota, 329;
Laird v. Moonan, 32 Minnesota, 358; Selma Factory v. Stoddard,
116 Alabama, 251; Renton v. Conley, 49 California, 187; McAlpine v. Duncan, 16 California, 127; Bowen v. Aubrey, 22 California, 571; Henry v. Rice, 18 Mo. App. 497.
The Supreme Court of Ohio held the mechanic's lien law of
1894 unconstitutional because it invaded the liberty and property rights of the owner, for the privilege of contracting is both
a liberty and a property right. Liberty includes the right to
acquire property, and that means and includes the right to
make and enforce contracts. The right to make contracts is
one of the attributes of property, and when an individual is
deprived of such right he is deprived of his property within

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument for Petitioners.

193 U. S.

the meaning of the Constitution. Ritchie v. The People, 155
Illinois, 98; Forer v. People, 141 Illinois, 171; State v. Loomis,
115 Missouri, 307; Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Leep v. St. L.
I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 58 Arkansas, 407.
The act of 1894 is obnoxious as class legislation, for it imposes upon the property owner a burden attaching to no one
else. It is not uniform in its operation. For other cases involving same principle, see State v. Ferris, 53 Ohio St. 314;
Hocking Valley Coal Co. v. Rosser, 53 Ohio St. 12; Gull, Col.
&c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Ritchie v. People, 155 Illinois,
98; Godcharles v. Wigeman, 113 Pa. St. 431; State v. Goodwill,
33 W. Va. 179; Braceville Coal Co. v. People, 147 Illinois, 66.
It is contrary to the first principles of civil liberty and
natural justice, and to the spirit of our constitutional laws,
that any one citizen should enjoy privileges and advantages
which are denied to all others, under like circumstances; or
that one should be subjected to losses, damages, suits or actions
from which all others under like circumstances are exempt.
Holden v. James, 11 Massachusetts, 396; S. & N. Ala. R. R.
Co. v. Morris, 65 Alabama, 194, 199; State v. F. C. Coal Co.,
33 W. Va. 188; Eden v. People, 161 Illinois, 296; E.r parle
Jentzsch, 112 California, 468; People v. Gilson, 109 N. Y. 389;
Pembina Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181, 188. Such a law
is an encroachment on the just liberty of both workman and
employed. Cases supra and State v. Coal Co., 36 W. Va. 856;
Brannon on Fourteenth Amendment, 110, 112; Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 590.
This law deprives the owner of his property without due
process of law. See cases supra. "Due process of law" and
"the law of the land" are synonymous, and used interchangeably. Cooley's Const. Lim. 3d ed. § 353; Millett v. People,
117 Illinois, 294.
Due process of law means "that every citizen shall hold his
life, liberty, property and immunities under the protection of
the general rules which govern society." Everything which
may pass under the form of an enactment is not, therefore, to

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

be considered as the law of the land. Cooley's Const. Lim. 3d
ed. § 353. Such general public law must be founded on reason.
Harding v. People, 160 Illinois, 439; Ex parte Newman, 9 California, 518; Ex parte Andrews, 18 California, 678. See dissenting opinion in Mallory v. Abattoir Co., 80 Wisconsin, 180.
As to due process and equity of law, see also Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 31; Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 238; Davison v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 107; Kentucky
Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 33; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co.
v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; State ex rel. R. & W. Comm. v.
C. M. & P. R. Co., 38 Minnesota, 281; Minneapolis & E. R.
Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 467.
To authorize A, through the agency of a sub-contractor, to
impose an arbitrary, unjust and absolute liability upon B,
without his default, and contrary to the express stipulations
in the written agreement between them, and without any
notice that will enable him to protect himself against such
liability, and without his violating any statute or any law, or
committing any tort or wrong, is, certainly, to deprive B of
his property or rights of property without due-process of law,
and to deprive him of the equal protection of the laws. King
v. Hayes, 80 Maine, 206; Ulman v. Mayor, 72 Maryland, 587;
Garvin v. Daussman, 114 Indiana, 429; Oregon R. & N. Co. v.
Smalley, 1 Washington, 206.
Cases cited in opinion of the court below can be distinguished and are not applicable.
The law in question is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, in violation of the great first principles of the social
compact and cannot be considered a rightful exercise of legislative authority. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Gulf, Colo. &
Santa Fd R. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Wilkinson v. Leland,
2 Pet. 658; 3 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 674; Osborne v. Nicholson, 13 Wall. 662; Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall. 623; Walker v.
Cincinnati, 21 Ohio St. 41.
The argument that the lien law was read into and made a
part of the contracts of the lien claimants and owner was

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Petitioners.

193 U. S.

thereby bound, is without merit. Norton v. Shelby Co., 118
U. S. 442; Lion HardwareCo. v. Young, 53 Ohio St. 423; 3 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 678; State v. Lessees of Public Works,
3 Ohio Bull. 265; Meyer v. Berlandi, 39 Minnesota, 438. An
unconstitutional law is void, not from the time it is so declared, but from its enactment. Findlay v. Pendleton, 62
Ohio St. 80, 88.
If the law is unconstitutional it could not be rendered valid
by requiring the contractor to give a bond. Bardwell v. Mann,
48 N. W. Rep. 1120; Gibbs v. Tally, 133 California, 373;
Shaughnessy v. Surety Co., 71 Pac. Rep. 701; Snell v. Bradbury, 72 Pac. Rep. 150.
The Federal courts should follow the state courts and hold
the law unconstitutional. The law of 1894 was a radical departure from previous legislation. As to the history of mechanic's lien law legislation in Ohio, see Bridge Co. v. Bowman,
43 Ohio St. 37; iRockel & White, Ohio Lien Laws, 47, 50;
Treadway & Marlatt's Ohio Mechanic's Lien Law, ch. I;
Hampson v. State, 8 Ohio St. 321; Copeland v. Manton, 22
Ohio St. 398, 403; Dunn v. Rankin, 27 Ohio St. 132; Bullock
v. Horn, 44 Ohio. St. 420. In Palmer v. Tingle, 54 Ohio St..
423, the court simply refused to depart from the doctrine
uniformly held heretofore that sub-contractors are bound by
the contract with the owner. See also Stark v. Simmons, 54
Ohio St. 435; Mack v. DeGrafi &c., 57 Ohio St. 463. Douglas
v. Pike Co., 101 U. S. 677, was distinguished in 79 Fed. Rep.
483. And see also as to following state court decisions Brannon on Fourteenth Amendment, 397; Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S. 20; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389, 395;
Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 518; O'Brien v. IVheelock, 95
Fed. Rep. 883, 904.
Should the court not follow in the wake of the Ohio decisions, then there will be one rule for Ohio creditors, and an'other for those residents of another State, i. e., claimants for
mechanic's liens who are residents of States other than Ohio
will have a valid lien, while lien claimants residing in Ohio

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

will not have such, and this "would be unfortunate, to say the
least." Jencks v. Quidwick Co., 135 U. S. 457; Knapp v.
McCafferty, 177 U. S. 638; Bucher v. Cheshire, 125 U. S. 555,
582; McGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 665; Polk's Lessee v.
Wendell, 5 Wheat. 293.
If the previous decisions of the state court are so firmly
established as to constitute a rule of property, then the Federal courts are governed by the previous decisions of the state
courts. Louisville v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244.
It is immaterial that similar laws have been held constitutional in other States. Bausernan v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 547;
Union Nat. Bk. v. Bank of Kansas City, 136 U. S. 223; Louisiana v. Pilsbury, 105 U. S. 294; Morley v. Lake Shore &c. R.
Co., 146 U. S. 162.
The question whether the statute violated the constitutional
guaranty is a legal question. It cannot be tortured into a
question of general law or of general jurisprudence, of national or universal application. DeVaughan v. Hutchinson,
165 U. S. 566; Railroad Co. v. Bank, 102 U. S. 57; Van Stone
v. Stillwell &c. Co., 142 U. S. 128.
This court has, in effect, decided that when even some
matters of general law are regulated by state statute, the
Federal courts will follow the decisions of the state courts
construing the statute. If it is regulated by the state constitution, there would be equal truth in the proposition, Hough
v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, as in the absence of statutory
regulations by the State in which the cause of action arose; Lake
Shore & M. S. Ry. Co. v. Prentice, 147 U. S. 101; B. & 0. Ry.
Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368; Hartford Ins. Co. v. Chicago &c.
Ry., 175 U. S. 91; Loeb v. Trustees &c., 179 U. S. 472; Ahrend
v. Odiorne, 118 Massachusetts, 261.
Mr. George K. Nash and Mr. T. J. Keating, with whom
Mr. Louis G. Addison was on the brief, for respondents:
This court is not bound to follow the decisions of the Ohio
Supreme Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Respondents.

193 U. S.

The cause of action set out in the amended bill accrued
before the decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio was rendered
or announced. The former decisions of the Supreme Court
of Ohio upon similar contracts and liens, are in conflict with
that decision, and the cause of action accrued before such
former decisions were reversed by the holding in Young v.
The Lion Hardware Company. The constitutional question
is one of general constitutional law, not peculiarly applicable
to the constitution of the State of Ohio, but equally applicable
to any and all constitutions, including State and Federal.
The question is one of general jurisprudence and commercial
law. Burgess v. "Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Anderson v. Santa
Anna Township, 116 U. S. 356.
Decisions of the state court are not necessarily obligatory
upon Federal courts where they affect contracts which were
valid under the constitution and laws of the State as interpreted and enforced by its highest judicial tribunals at the
time they were entered upon. Rowan v. Runnels, 5 How. 134;
Ohio Life and Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 432; Gelpcke v.
Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678;
Taylor v. Ypsilanti, 105 U. S. 60; Douglass v. County of Pike,
101 U. S. 677; Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati,47 U. S. App.
36, 46; Township v. Etna Life Ins. Co., 138 U. S. 67, 72;
Miller v. Ammon, 145 U. S. 421; Carroll County v. Smith, 111
U. S. 556; Gibson v. Lyon, 115 U. S. 439; Ohio Life v. Debolt,
16 How. 432; Board of Commissioners of Stanley Co. v. Coler,
190 U. S. 437. For cases in which lien laws had been sustained
prior to this contract, see Railway Company v. Cronan, 38
Ohio St. 122; Railway Company v. McCoy, 42 Ohio St. 251;
Weil v. State, 46 Ohio St. 450.
The Ohio lien law is not unconstitutional, citing numerous
cases which appear at end of opinion p. 550, post.
As to class legislation, see Summerlin v. Thompson, 31
Florida, 369; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Wunderle v.
Wunderle, 144 Illinois, 40; Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 708;
Cooley's Const. Lim. 5th ed. 482; Barbier v. Connolly, 113

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 27, 31; State v. Powers, 38 Ohio St. 54; Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U. S. 1; New York v. Squire, 145 U. S. 175; Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366.
Mr. Talfourd P. Linn, with whom Mr. John D. McKennan
was on the brief, also for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The Great Southern Fire Proof Hotel Company, a corporation of Ohio, made a contract with one McClain for the construction of a hotel building and opera house at Columbus,
Ohio.
McClain contracted with Jones & Laughlins, Limited, a partnership association organized under the laws of Pennsylvania,
for a certain amount of steel to be used in the buildings which
he undertook to erect.
Under that contract Jones & Laughlins, Limited, furnished
steel of the value of $43,296.74.
Proceeding under certain statutes of Ohio relating to liens
for mechanics and others, Jones & Laughlins, Limited, brought
suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio against the Hotel Company, to enforce a lien
asserted by them on the hotel building and opera house for the
balance due on their contract with McClain. Various persons
were made defendants because they asserted claims upon or
interest in the property. It was a case in which the jurisdiction of that court depended upon diversity in the citizenship
of the parties. Upon final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill on the ground that the statute of Ohio of
April 13, 1894, (91 Ohio Laws, 135,) under which Jones &
Laughlins, Limited, proceeded, was repugnant to the Constitution of Ohio. 79 Fed. Rep. 477. Upon appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, that court, being of opinion that the
statute was constitutional, reversed the decree of the Circuit
Court. 58 U. S. App. 397; 86 Fed. Rep. 370. The case was

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

then brought here upon writ of certiorari, and this court, without considering the merits, reversed the judgments of both
courts upon the ground that the record did not affirmatively
show a case of which the Circuit Court could properly take
cognizance, so far as the citizenship of the parties was concerned. In the opinion then rendered we said that under the
circumstances the plaintiffs should be permitted to amend
their pleadings as to the citizenship of the parties: and, if a
case could be presented within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, the parties should be allowed to proceed to a final hearing on the merits. GreatSouthern.FireProof Hotel Co. v. Jones,
177 U. S. 449.
Upon the return of the cause the plaintiffs filed an amended
bill of complaint, which cured the defect in its original bill as
to the citizenship of the parties. The case went to a final
hearing upon the merits, and a decree was rendered in favor
of the plaintiffs. That decree was affirmed in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Great Southern Fire Proof Hotel Co. v.
Jones, 116 Fed. Rep. 793. The case is again here upon a writ,
of certiorari granted upon motion of the Hotel Company.
The statutory provisions, questions as to the constitutionality
of which have been raised in this case, are certain sections of
the Revised Statutes of Ohio, as follows:
"SEC. 3184. A person who performs labor, or furnishes
machinery or material for constructing, altering or repairing
a boat, vessel, or other water craft, or for erecting, altering,
repairing or removing a house, mill, manufactory, or any furnace or furnace material therein, or other building, appurtenance, fixture, bridge or other structure, or for the digging,
drilling, plumbing, boring, operating, completing or repairing of
any gas well, oil well or any other well, or performs labor of
any kind whatsoever, in altering, repairing or constructing
any oil derrick, oil tank, oil or gas pipe line, or furnishes tilo
for the drainage of any lot or land by virtue of a contract with,
or at the instance of the owner thereof or his agent, trustee,
contractor or subcontractor, shall have a lien to secure the

GREAT SOUTHERN HOJTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

payment of the same upon such boat, vessel or other water
craft, or upon such house, mill, manufactory or other building
or appurtenance, fixture, bridge or other structure, or upon
such gas well, oil well or any other well, or upon such oil
derrick, oil tank, oil or gas pipe line, and upon the material
and machinery so furnished, and upon the interest, leasehold
or otherwise, of the owner in the lot or land on which the same
may stand, or to which it may be removed.
"SEc. 3185. Such person, in order to obtain such lien, shall,
within four months from the time of performing such labor, or
furnishing such machinery or material, file with the recorder of
the county where the labor was performed, or the machinery
or material furnished, an affidavit containing an itemized
statement of the amount and value of such labor, machinery,
or material, or any part thereof, with all credits and offsets
thereon, a copy of the contract, if it is in writing, a statement
of the amount and times of payment to be made thereunder,
and a description of the land on which the gas well, oil well,
or other wells are situated, or the land on which the house, mill,
manufactory, or other buildings, or appurtenance, fixture,
bridge, or other structure may stand, or to which it may be
removed; and the same shall be recorded in a separate book
to be kept therefor, and shall operate as a lien from the date
of the first item of the labor performed or the machinery or
material furnished upon or toward the property designated
in the preceding section, and the interest of the owner in the
lot or land on which the same may stand, or to which it may
be removed, for six years from and after the date of the filing
of such attested statement. If an action be brought to enforce such lien within that time, the same shall continue in
force until the final adjudication thereof; and there shall be
no homestead or other exemption against any lien under the
provisions of this chapter.
"SEC. 3185a. In all cases where the labor, material or machinery referred to in sections 3184 and 3185 shall be furnished
by any person other than the original contractor with such

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

owner, or his agent or trustee, the lien shall not exceed the
actual value of the labor, material or machinery so furnished,
and the aggregate amount of liens for which the property may
be held shall not, in the absence of fraud or collusion between
the owner and original contractor, exceed the amount of the
price agreed upon between the owner and original contractor
for the performing of such labor and the furnishing of such
material and machinery: Provided, if it shall be made to appear that the owner and contractor, for the purpose of defrauding subcontractors, material-men or laborers, fixed an
unreasonably low price in the original contract for any work or
material for which a lien is given under section thirty-one
hundred and eighty-four, the court shall ascertain the difference between such fraudulent contract price and a fair and
reasonable price therefor, and such subcontractors' materialmen and laborers shall have a lien to the amount of such fair
and reasonable price so ascertained." 91 Ohio Laws, 135, 137.
The contention of the Hotel Company is that the statute
under which Jones & Loughlins, Limited, proceeded was repugnant to the constitution of Ohio; and that the Supreme
Court of Ohio having held in two cases, Palmer & Crawford v.
Tingle, and Young v. Lion Hardware Company, 55 Ohio St..
423-determined before the bringing of this suit, but after the
rights of the parties had been fixed by their contracts-fthat
the statute was inconsistent with the state constitution, the
duty of the Federal court was to follow those decisions, even
if,
in the exercise of an independent judgment on the subject,
it was of opinion that the statute was constitutional. Is that
view in harmony with the decisions of this court?
The leading case on this subject is Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S.20, 33. In that case, which was in the Circuit Court of
the United States, the rights of the parties depended upon a
statute of Missouri, which had not been construed by the
highest court of the State at the time those rights accrued
under it; and the question arose whether the Circuit Court
was entitled to determine for itself what was the true meaning

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the statute. In view of some differences in forms of expression in previous cases, the court deemed it wise to reexamine the subject upon both principle and authority, and
to announce the rule by which a Circuit Court of the United
States should be guided in case of a conflict of opinion between it and the highest court of the State as to the meaning
and legal effect of a local statute upon which the rights of
parties depended.
In that case Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the unanimous
judgment of this court, said: "The Federal courts have an
independent jurisdiction in the administration of state laws,
co6rdinate with, and not subordinate to, that of the state
courts, and are bound to exercise their own judgment as to
the meaning and effect of those laws. The existence of two
co6rdinate jurisdictions in the same territory is peculiar, and
the results would be anomalous and inconvenient but for the
exercise of mutual respect and deference. Since the ordinary
administration of the law is carried on by the state courts, it
necessarily happens that by the course of their decisions certain rules are established which become rules of property and
action in the State, and have all the effect of law, and which
it would be wrong to disturb. This is especially true with
regard to the law of real estate and the construction of state
constitutions and statutes. Such established rules are always
regarded by the Federal courts, no less than by the state courts
themselves, as authoritative declarations of what the law is.
But where the law has not been thus settled, it is the right and
duty of the Federal courts to exercise their own judgment; as
they also always do in reference to the doctrines of commercial
law and general jurisprudence. So when contracts and transactions have been entered into, and rights have accrued thereon
under a particular state of the decisions, or when there has been
no decision of the state tribunals, the Federal courts properly
claim the right to adopt their own interpretation of the law
applicable to the case, although a different interpretation may
be adopted by the state courts after such rights have accrued.

OCTOBER TERMT,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 IT. S.

But even in such cases, for the sake of harmony and to avoid
confusion, the Federal courts will lean towards an agreement
of views with the state courts if the question seems to them
balanced with doubt. Acting on these principles, founded as
they are on comity and good sense, the courts of the United
States, without sacrificing their own dignity as independent
tribunals, endeavor to avoid, and in most cases do avoid, any
unseemly conflict with well-considered decisions of the state
courts. As, however, the very object of giving to the national
courts jurisdiction to administer the laws of the States in controversies between citizens of different States was to institute
independent tribunals which it might be supposed would be
unaffected by local prejudices and sectional views, it would be
a dereliction of their duty not to exercise an independent judgment in cases not foreclosed by previous adjudication."
So in Carroll County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, in which the
principal question was as to the validity, under the constitution of Mississippi, of certain proceedings taken under a railroad charter, the Supreme Court of that State having passed
on the question, it was contended that its judgment was binding on the courts of the United States. But this court., speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, said: "It was not a rule previously
established, so as to have become recognized as settled law,
and which, of course, all parties to transactions afterwards
entered into would be presumed to know and to conform to.
When, therefore, it is presented for application by the courts
of the United States, in a litigation growing out of the same
facts, of which they have jurisdiction by reason of the citizenship of the parties, the plaintiff has a right, under the Constitution of the United States, to the independent judgment
of those courts, to determine for themselves what is the law
of the State, by which his rights are fixed and governed. It
was to that very end that the Constitution granted to citizens
of one State, suing in another, the choice of resorting to a
Federal tribunal. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33."
And in Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356, 365, it was

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

distinctly adjudged that where rights have accrued under a
state constitution or statute, "before the state court has
announced its construction, the Federal courts, although leaning to an agreement with the state court, must determine the
question upon their own independent judgment." In Pleasant Township v. £tna Life Insurance Co., 138 U. S. 67, 72,
where the rights of one of the parties depended upon the
validity of a statute of Ohio, and which statute the Supreme
Court of Ohio had held after the rights of the parties had
accrued, under their contract, to be in violation of the constitution of that State, this court, although reaching the same
conclusion as that announced by the state court, took care to
say that the decision of the state court did not conclude this
court, and that concurrence with the views expressed by the
state court was the result of the exercise of its independent
judgment-citing Burgess v. Seligman as having settled the
law upon this subject.
In Folsom v. Ninety-Six, 159 U. S. 611, 627, which involved
a question of the validity of a state enactment, this court referred to Burgess v. Seligman, and, speaking by Mr. Justice
Gray, said: "There not being shown to have been a single
decision of the state court against the constitutionality of the
act of 1885 before the plaintiff purchased his bonds, nor any
settled course of decision upon the subject, even since his
purchase, the question of the validity of these bonds must be
determined by this court according to its own view of the law
of South Carolina." In Barnum v. Okolona, 148 U. S. 393,
which involved the validity of certain bonds, and which bonds
the highest court of the State had adjudged to be void under
a local statute, the court said: "As against a party who became the owner of such bonds before the decision of the Supreme Court of the State was rendered, which was the case
here, we do not consider ourselves bound by such decision
unless we regard it as intrinsically sound." As late as Stanly
County v. Coler, 190 U. S. 437, 445, relating to the validity of
certain municipal bonds, this court reaffirmed the same prinVOL. CiCTn-35

OCTOBER TEAIM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

ciples. To the same effect are other cases which will be found
cited in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case
when it was first before that court. Jones v. Great Southern
Fire Proof Hotel, 86 Fed. Rep. 370. The only exception to
the general rule announced in the above cases arises when the
question is whether a particluar statute was passed by the
Legislature in the manner prescribed by the state constitution,
so as to become a law of the State. Town of South Ottau'a v.
Perkins, 94 U. S. 260; Post v. Supervisors, (Awoskeag Bank v.
Ottawa,) 105 U. S. 667; Wilkes County v. Coler, 180 U. S.
506, 520.
The plaintiffs insist that the Supreme Court, of Ohio, in
Railway Co. v. Cronin, 38 Ohio St. 122, and Railway Co. v.
McCoy, 42 Ohio St. 251-which were determined prior to the
contract between McClain and the plaintiffs-announced principles which, being applied here, would sustain the Validity of
the act of 1894. If this were true, then, in conformity with
the settled course of decisions in this court, we should hold that
the rights of the plaintiffs under their contract could not be
affected by a change of decision in the state court. But, as
the Circuit Court of Appeals held, the two cases just referred
to should not control the decision here. Those cases, it is
true, related to statutes giving liens to those who performed
labor and furnished materials in the construction of railroads.
But it does not appear that any question was raised or determined in them as to the constitutionality of the particular
statutes there involved.
On behalf of the Hotel Company, it is contended that the
cases of Hampson v. State, 8 Ohio, 315, Copeland v. Manton,
22 Ohio St. 398, Dunn v. Rankin, 27 Ohio St. 132, and Bullock
v. Horn, 44 Ohio St. 420, all prior to the act of 1894, announced
general principles which, being accepted, would necessarily
lead to the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court of Ohio
in the two subsequent cases, above cited, in which section 3184
of that, act was held to be in violation of the state constitution.
It is, therefore, contended that our interpretation of the con-

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stitution of Ohio should be controlled by the rule stated in
O'Brien v. Wheelock, 95 Fed. Rep. 883, 905, which involved
the validity of certain municipal bonds as well as the validity
of a statute of Illinois passed in 1871, the Illinois constitution
then in force being the one adopted in 1870. In that case the
court observed that the Illinois act of 1871 not having been
construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois before the bonds
there in question were issued, it was its duty, under the rule
announced in Burgess v. Seligman, to exercise an independent
judgment as to the validity of that act under the state constitution. But in so doing the court said two principles should
not be overlooked, namely: "(1) That, although the act of
1871 may not have been expressly the subject of judicial
construction before the rights of the plaintiffs accrued, this
court should give effect to any rules of construction that may
have been previously established by the highest court of the
State when interpreting similar provisions in the Constitution
of 1848; (2) that the Federal courts, for the sake of harmony
and to avoid confusion, should 'lean towards an agreement of
views with the state courts, if the question seems to them
balanced with doubt,' and endeavor to avoid 'any unseemly
conflict with the well-considered decisions of the state courts'
upon questions of local law." We have already shown that it
was the duty of the Federal court to lean to an agreement with
the state court, and we recognize it to be equally its duty,
when the rights of parties depend upon the construction of a
state constitution, to give effect to any settled rules for construing that instrument which had been announced by the
highest court of the State before such rights accrued. The
difficulty in applying this principle here is that, prior to the
two cases in 55 Ohio St., the Supreme Court of Ohio had not,
we think, established any rules of constitutional construction
that would necessarily require us to hold the act of 1894 to be
unconstitutional.
In our opinion, neither the decisions of Palmer v. Tingle,
Young v. Lion Hardware Co., 55 Ohio St. 423, nor any

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

other case in the Supreme Court of Ohio precluded the Circuit
Court from exercising its independent judgment as to the
constitutionality of the statute of Ohio here in question. If,
prior to the making of the contracts between the plaintiffs and
McClain, the state court had adjudged that the statute in
question was in violation of the state constitution, it would
have been the duty of the Circuit Cout, and equally the duty
of this court, whatever the opinion of either court as to the
proper construction of that instrument, to accept such prior
decision as determining the rights of the parties accruing
thereafter. But the decision of the state court, as to the
constitutionality of the statute in question, having been rendered after the rights of parties to this suit had been fixed by
their contracts, the Circuit Court would have been derelict, in
duty if it had not exercised its independent judgment touching
the validity of the statute here in question. In making this
declaration we must not be understood as at all qualifying the
principle that, in all cases, it is the duty of the Federal court,
to lean to an agreement with the state court, where the issue
relates to matters depending upon the construction of the
Constitution or laws of the State.
It remains to dispose of the question of the constitutionality
of the Ohio statute upon which this suit is based. In its consideration of the subject the Supreme Court of Ohio, in the
Palmer-Young cases, referred to the Preamble to the constitution of that State, declaring that "We, the people of the State
of Ohio, grateful to Almighty God for our freedom, to secure
its blessings and promote our common welfare, do establish
this constitution;" to the first section of the Ohio Bill of Rights
providing that "all men are, by nature, free and independent,
and have certain inalienable rights, among which are those of
enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing
and protecting property, and seeking and obtaining happiness and safety;" and to the second section of the state constitution declaring that "all political power is inherent in the
people. Government is instituted for their equal protection

GREAT SOUTHERN HOTEL CO. v. JONES.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and benefit." It then said: "The usual and most frequent
means of acquiring property is by contract, and one of the
most valuable and sacred rights is the right to make and
enforce contracts. The obligation of a contract, when made
and entered into, cannot be impaired by act of the General
Assembly." In view of these constitutional provisions, aided
by the general rules of law, the state court held the statute to
be unconstitutional and void, so far as it gave (syllabus) "a lien
on the property of the owner to subcontractors, laborers and
those who furnish machinery, material or tile to the contractor;" that "all to whom the contractor becomes indebted
in the performance of his contract, are bound by the terms of
the contract between him and the owner." 55 Ohio St. 423.
The Circuit Court of Appeals expressed its earnest desire,
in the interest of harmony of decision, to come to an agreement
with the state court, but its sense of duty compelled it to sustain the constitutional validity of the statute upon which the
plaintiffs based their claim. Upon a careful consideration of
the objections urged to the statute, and after an extended
review of the authorities, the Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the statute did not deprive the owner of his property without due process of law, nor unreasonably interfere with his
liberty of contract; that the restraints put upon the owner by
the provisions in favor of sub-contractors and those who furnished materials to be used by the contractor in execution of
his contract with the owner, were neither arbitrary nor oppressive; that such provisions were no more onerous than required
by the necessity of protecting those who actually do the work
or furnish the material by which the owner is benefited;
and that as the legislation in question was sanctioned by the
dictates of natural justice, and, as must be conclusively presumed, was known to the owner when he contracted for the
building of his house, its requirements could only be avoided
by pointing out some specific part of the organic law which
has been violated by its enactment.
We are constrained to withhold our assent to the views

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

expressed by the Supreme Court of Ohio, and to express our
concurrence with the Circuit Court of Appeals. The great
weight of authority in this country as to the meaning and
scope of constitutional provisions substantially like those to
be found in the Constitution of Ohio is, in our opinion, against
the conclusion reached by the learned state court. Exercising
an independent judgment on the subject, we are obliged to so
declare. The reasons in support of the constitutionality of
the statute are cogently stated in the able and elaborate opinion
of Judge Lurton, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals in
this case. Jones v. Great Southern Fire Proof Hotel Co., S6
Fed. Rep. 370. As the reports of the decisions of the Circuit
Court of Appeals are accessible to all, we will not encumber
this opinion with a restatement of the grounds, so fully set
forth by that court, on which the validity of the statute must
be sustained. We content ourselves with referring to its
opinion, and with citing, in the margin1 some authorities
which, in our judgment, support the views expressed by "the
Circuit Court of Appeals. It results that the decree must be
affirmed.
It i.i so ordercd.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of this case.

I Van Stone v. Stillwell & Bierce Manf'g Co., 142 U. S. 128; McMurray v.
Brown, 91 U. S. 257; Blauvelt v. Woodworth, 31 N. Y. 285; Glacius v. Black,
67 N. Y. 563; Donahy v. Clapp, 12 Cus.h. 440; Bowen v. Phinney, 162 Massachusetts, 593; White v. Miller, 18 Pa. St. 52; Spofford v. True, 33 Maine, 2N3;
Paine v. Tillinghort, 52 Connecticut, 532; Treusch v. Shryock, 51 Maryland,
162; Colter v. Frese, 45 Indiana, 96; Smith v. Newbaur, 144 Indiana, 95;
Title Guarantee & Trust Co. v. Wren, 56 Pac. Rep. (Ore.) 271; Mallory
v. La Crosse &c. Co., 80 Wisconsin, 170; Laird v. Moonan, 32 Minnesota,
358; Albright v. Smith, 2 S. Dak. 577; Barnardv. McKenzie, 4 Colorado, 251;
Smalley v. Gearing, 121 Michigan, 190; Hightower v. Bailey, 56 S. W. Rep
(Ky.) 147; McKeon v. Sumner Build;ng & Supply Co., 51 La. Ann. 1961;
Roanoke &c. Co. v. Karn, 80 Virginia, 589; Henry & Coatmeorth Co. v. Erans,
97 Missouri, 47; Cole Man'g Co. v. Falls, 90 Tennessee, 466; Gurney v. Walsham, 16 R. I. 698. See, also, 2 Jones' Liens, 286; Phil. Mech. Liens, 32 1,
§ 30, 3d ed.

