OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U.

S.

RIPPEY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
No. 273. Argued March 11, 1904-Decided M1arch 21, 1904.

This court follows the state court as to the validity of a state statute under
the constitution of the State, and the question here is whether the State
Constitution in authorizing the law encounters the Constitution of the
United States.
A State has absolute power over the sale of intoxicating liquors and may
prohibit it altogether, or conditionally, as it sees fit. Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623.
The provisions in articles 3384-3394, Revised Statutes, and articles 402-407,
Penal Code of Texas, as to the submission to the people of the question
of prohibiting or allowing the sale of liquor in different sections of the
State, are not contrary to any of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, because they discriminate
in favor of a vote for prohibition.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Geo. Clark, with whom Mr. D. C. Bollinger, Mr. Francis
M. Etheridge and Mr. Rhodes S. Baker were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
I. Under the constitution of the State of Texas, relating to
the question of local option, the legislature of said State is
deprived of all power to prohibit the sale of intoxicants in any
locality, but such power is vested exclusively in the voting
citizenship of each particular locality, town, city, justice precinct, county, or some subdivision thereof, to determine, by a
majority vote at an election called for that purpose, whether
or not the sale of intoxicants, except for mechanical or sacramental purposes, shall be prohibited in the particular locality.
And by the terms of the constitution itself the legislature is
only vested with authority to prescribe regulations for such
elections whereby the wishes of any particular locality may
be determined according to the law. In other words, it is a
rare instance of pure democratic government in a government

RIPEf
193 TI.

S.

v.
v,.

kS.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of representative republicanism. Constitution of Texas, art.
XVI, sec. 20; Dawson v. State, 25 Tex. Ct. of App. 672; Ex
parte Bains, 39 Tex. Crim. Rep. 62.
II. The statutes of the State of Texas presumably passed
in pursuance of the constitutional provision, are violative of
the Federal Constitution, in the following particulars, to wit:
(1) Because art. 3395 of the Revised Statutes of the State of
Texas abridges privileges and immunities of the citizens of the
State of Texas and of the United States; (2) Because said
article in its operation deprives many citizens of the United
States and of the State of Texas, and especially the plaintiff
in error, of liberties and property, without due process of law;
(3) Said art. 3395 denies to many citizens in the State of Texas
the equal protection of the law; (4) Because said art. 3395 and
accompanying legislation herein before set out, constitute class
legislation, in that a certain class of citizenship is favored and
an equally large class is discriminated against therein; and such
discrimination involves the exercise of the most important
functions of citizenship; and the case is not one in which the
legislature was authorized to make discriminations by classes
under the Constitution of the United States; (5) Because said
statutes hereinbefore set out contravene the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States as construed by the Court
of Criminal Appeals of the State of Texas, in that they deny
equal rights to a large portion of citizenship of the State of
Texas, if not a majority, and bestow exclusive privileges upon
a large class of other citizens of said State, which exclusive
privileges are not in consideration of public services rendered;
(6) Because said statutes, and especially art. 3395 operate to
deny to the citizens the equal protection of the law, in that
they discriminate against those who vote against prohibition"
and in favor of those who vote for prohibition; and operate
to disfranchise for a period, at least of two years, all citizens
within the territory to be affected, who are opposed to prohibition, and deny them the right for such period of time to
legislate upon the question, while upon the contrary it confers

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

that right upon those who favor prohibition to vote therefor
as often as they shall see fit; (7) Because said statutes, especially art. 3395 further deny the equal protection of the law,
in that they provide that the failure to carry prohibition in
a town or city shall not prevent an election from being inmiediately thereafter held for the entire justice's precinct, or county
in which said town or city is situated, and deny to those citizens
who oppose local prohibition the privilege of so voting in the
event prohibition should carry in the town or city; (8) Because
said statutes further deny the equal protection of the law, in
that they provide in the event prohibition shall fail to carry
by vote in the town or city, that immediately thereafter those
in favor of prohibition may inaugurate an election for an enlarged district to be selected by them, which shall include the
said town or city, and in the event the election so held in such
enlarged territory shall be carried in favor of prohibition, the
same shall operate as an abrogation and repeal of the previous
election held in said town or city. And because said statutes
further provide that if at an election prohibition should carry
in a town or city, it cannot be defeated by an inauguration
of a subsequent election in an enlarged district; and upon the
contrary provides that when prohibition has been carried at
an election in a town, city or precinct, such prohibition shall
not be repealed except at an election ordered and held for such
town, city or precinct earlier than two years thereafter; (9) Because said statutes further deny the equal protection of the
law, in that they provide that when prohibition has been
carried at an election in the entire county, no election shall
thereafter be ordered in any subdivision of said county until
after prohibition has been defeated in the entire county; and
in disregard and denial of equal protection they further provide
that should an election fail to carry prohibition in the county,
those in favor of prohibition may immediately thereafter inaugurate an election for any and all such portions of the county
as they may choose; and in the event prohibition carries in any
such subdivision so immediately inaugurated, such election

RIPPEY v. TEXAS.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

shall have the effect of abrogating the previous election held
in the entire county. Constitution U. S., art. 14, sec. 1;
Railway Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Connolly v. Pipe Line Co.,
184 U. S. 540; Penbina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S.
188, 189; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 382; Missouriv. Lewis,
101 U. S. 22; Marchantv. Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 389; Barbier
v. Connoly, 113 U. S. 27; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68;
Magoun v. Trust Co., 170 U. S. 293; Kentucky Tax Cases, 115
U. S. 337; Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 237; McPherson
v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 39; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436; Ex parte
Jones, 38 Cr. App. 428; Ex parte McCarver, 46 S. W. Rep. 939;
Fraserv. McConway, 82 Fed. Rep. 860; JuanitaLimestone Co.
v. Fagley, 187 Pa. St. 197; In re Day, 181 Illinois, 80; Luman
v. Hitchens Bros. Co., 90 Maryland, 27; Wansel v. Hoos, 60 N.
J. L. 526; People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y. 526; State v. Hoyt, 71
Vermont, 64.
Mr. C. K. Bell, Attorney General of the State of Texas,
with whom Mr. T. S. Reese was on the brief, for defendant in
error:
I. The right to engage in the business of selling intoxicating
liquors is not a "privilege or immunity of citizens of the United
States" within the meaning of section 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, 133; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S.
657, 661; Vance v. TV. A. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438, 444;
Crowley v. Christenson, 137 U. S. 86, 91.
The "privileges and immunities" protected are only those
flowing from Federal citizenship. Slaughter House Cases, 16
Wall. 37.
II. The laws in question do not deprive any person of "liberty or property" within the meaning of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution. Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623; Kid v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, 33.
III. The laws in question do not deny to any person within

OCTOBIR TER,

190,

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

the jurisdiction of the State of Texas the equal protection of
the law. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
283, 293; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 683; Busch, v. Webb, 122 Fed. Rep.
655, 669; Ex parte Fields, 39 Tex. Crim. App. Rep. 50; Rippey
v. State, 68 S. W. Rep. 687; 73 S. W. Rep. 15; Kimberly v.
Morris, 10 Tex. Civ. App. Rep. 592, 596.
MR. JUSTICE IHOLAMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was convicted of selling intoxicating
liquors contrary to vote of his precinct prohibiting such sale.
This vote was in pursuance of a statute which the plaintiff in
error alleges to be contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, of
the Constitution of the United States. The question was
raised at the outset by a motion to quash, which was overruled subject to exception, the exception was overruled on
appeal, and the case was brought here by writ of error.
The Constitution of Texas, art. 16, sec. 20, required the
legislature to enact a law by which the majority of qualified
voters of any county, justice's precinct, town or city, from time
to time might determine whether the sale of intoxicating
liquors should be prohibited. The Legislature thereupon
enacted what now are articles 3384-3399 of the Revised
Statutes, and articles 402-407 of the Penal Code. These all
are assailed, but the particular object of attack is art. 3395.
Article 3395 is as follows:
"Art. 3395 [3238]. The failure to carry prohibition in a county
shall not prevent an election for the same being imnmnediately
thereafter held in a justice's precinct or subdivision of such
county as designated by the commissioners' court, or of any
town or city in such county; nor shall the failure to carry prohibition in a town or city prevent an election from being immediately thereafter held for the entire justice's precinct or county
in which said town or city is situated; nor shall the holding of
an election in a justice's precinct in any way prevent the holding

RIPPEY v. TEXAS.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of an election immediately thereafter for the entire county in
which the justice's precinct is situated; but when prohibition
has been carried at an election ordered for the entire county,
no election on the question of prohibition shall be thereafter
ordered in any justice's precinct, town or city of said county
until after prohibition has been defeated at a subsequent election for the same purpose, ordered and held for the entire
county, in accordance with the provisions of this title; nor in
any case where prohibition has been carried in any justice's
precinct shall an election on the question of prohibition be
ordered thereafter in any town or city of such precinct until
after prohibition has been defeated at a subsequent election
ordered and held for such entire precinct."
It will be seen that this section discriminates in favor of
those who vote for prohibition; and the argument is that since
the Legislature was not authorized to pass a prohibitory law,
Dawson v. State, 25 Texas Cr. App. 670, 674, 675, but was
required to leave the question to a local vote, it necessarily
created a pure democracy to that extent, and therefore could
not interfere with the equality of the voters in their right to
propose or carry a law. Many questions would have to be
answered before so speculative a piece of ratiocination could
be followed. But we think it may be dealt with in short space,
so far as is necessary to decide this case.
We follow the state court of course, as to the state constitution, and assume that the law is not invalid under that. The
question for us is whether, if the state constitution undertakes
to authorize such a law, it encounters the Constitution of the
United States. It is a question of the power of the State as a
whole. Missouri v. Dockery, 191 U. S. 165, 171. But the
State has power to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors
altogether, if it sees fit, Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623, and
that being so it has power to prohibit it conditionally. It does
not infringe the Constitution by giving those in lavor of the
sale a chance which it might have denied. It is true that the
greater does not always include the less. A man may give his

