SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 167
193 U. S.'

Statement of the Case.

of the land; but the right of this court to review the decisions
of the highest court of a State has long been well settled, and
is circumscribed by the rules established by law. We are of
opinion that plaintiffs in error have not brought the cases
within the statute giving to this court the right of review.
The writs of error in both cases will be dismissed.
MIR. JUSTICE

INIOKENNA concurs in the result.

AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

SECURITY LAND AND EXPLORATION COMPANY v.
BURNS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 127. Argued January 19, 1904.-Decided February 29, 1904.

The general rule that in matters of boundaries natural monuments or objects will control courses and distances is not absolute and inexorable.
When the plat of a government survey is the result of, and founded upon a
gross fraud, and there is actually no lake near the spot indicated thereon,
and adopting the lake as it is actually located as a natural monument
would increase the patentee's land fourfold, the false meander line can
be regarded as a boundary, instead of a true meander line, and the patentee confined to the lots correctly described within the lines and distances
of the plat of survey and of the field notes which he actually bought and
paid for.
Where the patentee has in fact received and is in possession of all the land
actually described in the lines and distances and is seeking for more on
the theory that his plat of survey carries him to a natural boundary, a
denial of that right on the ground that the plat was fraudulent, and that the
natural boundary did not actually exist anywhere near the spot indicated,
is a legal defence which can be set up by defendant in an action in ejectment, and it is not necessary to seek the aid of a court in equity to obtain
a reformation of the patent.

THIS is an action of ejectment, commenced in the District
Court of St. Louis County, in the State of Minnesota, to recover
certain lands in that county described in the complaint. The
trial was by the court, and judgment was entered for the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

fendant, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, and the plaintiff has sued out this writ of error to review
that judgment. 87 Minnesota, 97.
The following facts (among others) were found by the trial
court:
"1. That plaintiff is a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and the defendants are husband and wife.
"2. In 1876, township fifty-seven north of range seventeen
west, in St. Louis County, Minnesota, was ordered by the
General Land Office of the United States to be surveyed, and
a contract for the survey thereof was made by the United
States surveyor general of the State of Minnesota with one
H. S. Howe, who, by said contract, was constituted a. deputy
United States surveyor for said purpose. Under said contract said Howe was required and undertook and agreed to
survey said township, to run out all section lines, and to set
posts making all section and quarter section corners throughout said township where the same could be marked upon the
ground, and accurately to meander and establish upon the
ground meander posts of all lakes and streams found to exist
within said township.
"3. Thereafter said Howe ran and marked the exterior lines
of said township, except the south township line, which had
been previously surveyed, and set posts at all section and
quarter section corners on said three exterior lines. He also
set a meander post upon the north line of said township as
surveyed by him, where said line running west from the northeast corner of said township first encountered the shore of
Ely Lake, or, as it is sometimes called, Cedar Island Lake.
"4. No survey of the interior of said township was ever made,
and no section lines within said township were ever run by said
Howe, with the possible exception of the west line of section 36
thereof, and no section or quarter section corners were ever
located, established or marked by him (with the possible
exception of the northwest corner of section 36 aforesaid), and

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION 00. v. BURNS. 169
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

none of the streams or permanent lakes (of which there were
several) within said township were meandered by him, and
no posts of any description were ever set, nor any lines or
bearing trees ever blazed, within said township, with the possible exception of a corner post at the northwest corner of said
section 36.
"5. Said Howe made and filed with the United States surveyor general of the State of Minnesota what purported to be
field notes of a survey of said township made by him under said
contract, purporting to give the length and directions of all
interior section lines in said township, the location of all sections and quarter section posts, and the bearing trees thereof,
the character of the soil and timber in said township, and all
other data and information required by the statutes of the
United States and the rules of the United States General Land
Office, to be ascertained and reported by deputy surveyors in
due course of making surveys of public lands.
"6. With the exception of the description of the survey of
the three exterior boundary lines of said township actually run
by him, said field notes returned by said Howe were imaginary
and fictitious, and the purported facts and data contained
therein were not based upon any personal knowledge or inspection of the interior of said township, and were, in fact,
false and erroneous.
"7. From said purported field notes it appears that there
existed in the northerly part of said township, lying in sections 2, 3, 4, 9, 10 and 11 thereof, a lake known as Ely Lake,
or Cedar Island Lake, with surface area, as indicated in said
field notes, of eighteen hundred acres; in fact, instead of having
an area of about eighteen hundred acres, said lake then was
and still is a body of water not exceeding eight hundred acres
in area. It is a permanent, deep and navigable lake, having
high, steep and heavily timbered banks, except about the
outlet thereof. Said lake does not, in fact, touch section 11
at all, and covers only an area of very small extent (less than
one-half of a forty-acre tract) in the southeast corner of sec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

tion 4. Between the actual water line of said lake and the
meander line thereof, as returned by the purported field notes
of said Howe, there were at the time of the survey, and still
are, at least one thousand acres of high, tillable land, which
has never been a part of the lake, and which was and is heavily
timbered with trees of more than a century's growth and
growing down to the water's edge.
"8. The field notes and report of survey made and filed by
said Howe were approved by the surveyor general for the
district of Minnesota, August 7, 1876, and a plat of said township was made in accordance with said purported field notes
under the direction of said surveyor general, and was approved
by him on said 7th day of August, 1876, and a duly certified
copy thereof was transmitted by him to the proper local United
States land office on the 24th day of August, 1876, and another
duly certified copy of the same was by him forwarded to the
General Land Office of the United States, and filed therein
August 23, 1876, and was by that office accepted as representing
a correct survey of said township and as the official plat thereof.
Such survey and plat of said township were the only ones ever
made by or under the authority of the United States government."
[The plat,which is to be found at page 43 of 189 United States
Reports, illustrates with sufficient accuracy the township in
which the lands in question lie, and it delineates the meandering of Cedar Island Lake, the outer meander line representing
that which was marked on the official plat of the survey and
as shown by the field notes of Howe, and the inner meander
line representing the lake as it actually existed in 1876, when
the field notes were made and filed, and as it now exists. A
portion of the land lying between these lines is the land involved in this action, being land lying between the lake and
the lots 3, 5, 6 and 7, in section 4, of the township mentioned.
The dotted lines on the plat, show the courses which would
have to be followed in order to permit each of the lots above
named to reach the lake as it actually exists.]

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 171
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"9. Since the spring of 1892, the defendants have been in
actual and continuous occupancy of a portion of the land lying
between the meander line described and returned by said
Howe in his said purported field notes, and as located upon
the government plat of said township, and the actual water
line of said lake. Said occupancy has been under the claim
that the lands occupied by said defendants were and are unsurveyed government lands subject to homestead entry, and
that they have not been patented by the government. The
defendants have made valuable and lasting improvements upon
the lands occupied by them respectively.
"10. According to the plat of said township, the land in
section 4 was divided into eight fractional government lots,
lots 1, 2 and 8 comprising all of the land in the east half of said
section, containing an aggregate of 122.3 acres, and lots 3, 4,
5, 6 and 7 containing an aggregate of 182.08 acres, comprising
all of the land in the west half of said section.
"11. Between December, 1879, and March, 1887, all of said
government lots [and all the surveyed lands within said township] were patented and conveyed by the United States, pursuant to the laws relating to the disposal of public lands, and
by patents containing the usual clause, 'according to the
official plat of the survey of said lands returned to the General
Land Office by the surveyor general.' By divers mesne conveyances from said patentees, the title to said lots 3, 5, 6 and 7,
containing according to said plat and to the patents of said
lands, the following quantities of land, respectively: Lot 3,
50.37 acres; lot 5, 34.75 acres; lot 6, 30.5 acres; and lot 7,
25.25 acres; became vested in the plaintiff in the year 1891
and prior to the commencement of the actions; and the plaintiff is still the owner thereof, and, as such owner, has within
the boundary of said lots, as shown upon said plat, and within
the meander line of said lake described in said field notes, the
full quantity of land above described as contained therein.
"If the side lines of said lot three were produced and ex-

OCTOBE3H TIRMf, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

tended in straight lines southerly from its southern boundary,
as shown upon the government plat, and as herein found and
determined, and the said lot was so extended to the southerly
boundary of said section 4, then in that event the said lot
would not touch said Ely Lake, nor would there be any lake
frontage thereon, and said lot would then contain one hundred
and sixty acres of land; neither would said lines nor said lot
reach said lake, no matter how far extended.
"If the side lines of said lot five were produced and extended
easterly from the eastern boundary of said lot, as shown upon
the government plat, and as herein found and determined, to
the eastern boundary of said section 4, the northern line of
said lot following the old meander line of said lake, and the
southern line of said lot being produced and extended in a
straight line, and said lot was so extended, then in that event
the said lot would not touch said Ely Lake, nor would there
be any lake frontage thereon, and said lot would contain about
one hundred and twelve acres of land.
"If the side lines of lot six were produced and extended in
straight lines easterly from the eastern boundary of said lot,
as shown upon the government plat and as herein found and
determined, to the eastern boundary of section 4, and said lot
was so extended, then in that event the said lot would not
touch said Ely Lake, nor would there be any lake frontage
thereon, and said lot would then contain one hundred and
sixty acres of land.
"If the side lines of said lot seven were produced and extended in straight lines easterly from its eastern boundary,
as shown upon the government plat and as herein found and
determined, in the eastern boundary of said section 4, and the
said lot was so extended, in that event the south line of said
lot would touch said Ely Lake, and a few feet of lake frontage
would then be contained in said lot, and said lot would contain
about one hundred and thirty-nine acres of land.
"I further find that it would be impossible to extend said
lots within their respective side lines, as above specified, with-

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 173
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

out instant and irreconcilable interference with each other,
and that no one of said lots has any prior or superior right over
any of the others to be so extended."
Mr. William W. Billson, with whom Mr. Chester A. Congdon
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Monuments prevail over courses, distances and quantities.
Grier v. Penna Coal Co., 128 Pa. St. 79, 95; Rev. Stat. 2396;
Public Domain, A. D. 1883, 598, 604.
When lands are granted according to an official plat of the
survey of such lands, the plat itself, with all its notes, lines,
descriptions and land marks, becomes as much a part of the
grant or deed by which they are conveyed, and controls, so far
as limits are concerned, as if such descriptive features were
written out upon the face of the deed or the grant itself.
Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691; Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 499,
504; Hardinv. Jordan, 140 U. S.371, 380; County of St. Clair
v. Livingston, 23 Wall. 46, 63; Chapmanv. Polock, 11 Pac. Rep.
(Cal.) 764; Vance v. Fore, 24 California, 436; Jefferies v. East
Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S.178, 194; Mclver's Lessee v. Walker,
9 Cranch, 173; Barclay v. Howell's Lessee, 6 Pet. 498, 510.
It is a universalrule that course and distance yield to natural
and ascertained objects. Preston'sHeirs v. Bowmar, 6 Wheat.
582; Brown v. Huger, 21 How. 305, 318; Higuerasv. United
States, 5 Wall. 827, 835; Morrow v. Whitney, 95 U. S.551, 555;
Gerrardv. Silver Peak Mines, 82 Fed. Rep. 578, 585; Nelson v.
Hall, 1 McLean, 518; S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 10,107; Koons v.
Bryson, 69 Fed. Rep. 297; Robinson v. Moore, 4 McLean, 279;
S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 11,960; Kirwan v. Murphy, 83 Fed. Rep.
275; Jones v. Martin, 35 Fed. Rep. 348; Ellenworth v. Standcliff, 42 Fed. Rep. 316; United States v. Murray, 41 Fed. Rep.
468; Whitehurst v. McDowel, 53 Fed. Rep. 633; McDowel v.
Whitehurst, 47 Fed. Rep. 757; S. C., 103 Fed. Rep. 157; S.C.,
109 Fed. Rep. 354; Belden v. Hebbard, 103 Fed. Rep. 532,541;
Ex parte Davidson, 57 Fed. Rep. 883.
The rule has been repeatedly enforced in cases involving

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

larger discrepancies than in this case. Newsom v. Pryor's
Lessee, 7 Wheat. 7; Ayers v. llatson, 113 U. S. 594; Land Co.
v. Saunders, 103 U. S. 316; Chinoweth v. Haskell'sLessee, 3 Pet.
92, 98; Horne v. Smith, 159 U. S. 40; Mitchell v. Smale, 140
U. S. 406; Simm's Lessee v. Baker, Cooke (Tenn.), 146; Whiteside v. Singleton, Meigs (Tenn.), 207, 218; Overton's Heirs v.
Cannon, 2 Humph. 264; Fowler v. Nixon, 7 Heisk. 719, 724;
Sturgeon v. Floyd, 3 Rich. 80; Simpkins v. Wells, 19 Ky. L. R.
881; Pitman v. Nunnelly, 17 Ky. L. R. 793; President &c. v.
Clark, 31 N. Car. (Iredell) 58.
The principle is uniformly recognized in the Minnesota cases.
Turnbull v. Schroeder, 29 Minnesota, 49, 51; Nicolin v. Sch urderham, 37 Minnesota, 63; Chan v. Brandt, 45 Minnesota,
93.
Monuments have been enforced against the courses and
distances although it appeared with exceptional distinctness

that the result was to pass more land than the parties had
designed. Pringle v. Rogers, 193 Pa. St. 94, 98; Sackctt v.
Twining, 18 Pennsylvania, 199; Johnston v. House, 2 Hlayw.
(N. C.) 301; Deaver v. Jones, 119 N. C. 598; Gilman v. Riopelle,
18 Michigan, 145, 164; Willoughiby v. Foster, Dyer, 80b;
Llewellyn v. Earl of Jersey, 11 M. & W. 183, 188; Reddick v.
Leggat, 7 N. Car. 539; Chandler v. McCard, 38 Maine, 564; 11
U. Can. 0. B. 631; Rawle on Covenants (5th ed.), 297; Dunn v.
Turner, 3 U. C. Com. P1. 104; Doe dent Murray v. Smith, 5
U. S. 225.
The rule of monumental supremacy when viewed in the
light of its true reason, is seen to be necessarily a universal rule
of interpretation. Ross, Early Land Holding among the Germans, 13, 149, 150. See Rev. Stat. ยง 2396; Public Domain,
1883, 468, 590; Cox v. Couch, 8 Pa. St. 147, 154; Blasdell v.
Bissell, 6 Pa. St. 258; Wood v. Appal, 63 Pa. St. 222; Yoder v.
Fleming, 2 Yeates, 311; Hall v. Powell, 4 Serg. & R. 456,461;
Doe v. Paine, 4 Hawks, 65, 71; Cherry v. Slade, 3 Murphy, 82,
86; Deaver v. Jones, 119 N. Car. 598; Miller v. White, 1 N. Car.
223; McClintock v. Rogers, 11 Illinois, 279, 296; Baxter v.

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 175
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Evell's Lessee, 7 Mon. (Ky.) 329; Ayres v. Watson, 137 U. S. 584,
597; Chinoweth v. Haskell, 3 Pet. 92, 96. Cases on defendant's
brief distinguished.
In some jurisdictions the rule may have degenerated. Early
cases in New York held that monuments were supreme. Jackson v. Camp, 1 Cow. 605, 612; Jackson v. Frost, 5 Cow. 346, 349;
Jackson v. Ives, 9 Cow. 661; Cudney v. Early, 4 Paige, 209, 212;
Jackson v. McConnell, 19 Wend. 175.
Afterwards by losing sight as above mentioned, of the reason
and foundation of the rule, they held that where the courses
and distances coincide with designated quantity, their accuracy
is verified, with the effect of denuding the monuments of their
supremacy. Baldwin v. Brown, 16 N. Y. 359; Buffalo, etc.,
Co. v. Stigeler, 61 N. Y. 348; Higinbotham v. Stoddard, 72 N. Y.
95, 99; Danziger v. Boyd, 21 J. & S. 398, 409.
As to Texas, see Blum v. Bowman, 30 U. S. App. 50, 54;
Booth v. Upshur, 26 Texas, 64, 70; Oregon, Hale v. Cottle, 21
Oregon, 580, 585.
Prior to the decision of Davis v. Rainsford, 17 Massachusetts,
207, in 1821, the State enforced the rule in favor of monuments. Howe v. Bass, 2 Massachusetts, 380; Pernam v. Weed,
6 Massachusetts, 131. But see Parks v. Loomis, 6 Gray, 467;
Murdock v. Chapman, 9 Gray, 156; Hall v. Eaton, 139 Massachusetts, 217, 221.
These cases show that the relaxation of the rule has not
extended beyond a very peculiar and narrow line of cases.
If by reason of the magnitude of the discrepancy or otherwise, the government is entitled to relief, it must be sought
through reformation in equity. White v. Burnley, 20 How.
235; Lamprey v. Mead, 54 Minnesota, 290, 299; Russell v.
Maxwell Land Co., 158 U. S. 253; Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S.
691; Gazzan v. Phillips, 20 How. 372; White v. Blum, 52 U. S.
App. 59, 63; Sears v. Parker, 1 Hayw. (N. Car.) 126; Fowler v.
Nixon, 7 Heisk. (Tenn.) 719, 725; Curle v. Barrell, 2 Sneed, 66;
Pringle v. Rogers, 193 Pa. St. 94; Hull v. Fuller, 7 Vermont,
100, 105; Owens v. Rains, Hayw. (Tenn.) 106.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

These propositions are established by the terms of the statute.
ยง 2396, Rev. Stat.; Ogilvie v. Copeland, 145 Illinois, 98, 105.
In water frontage cases a monument is supported not only
by its greater certainty, but by its greater materiality. A
water boundary adds to the market value of a tract by augmenting its usefulness for almost any purpose and the court
will presume that it was one of the inducements to the prchase. Newsom v. Prior's Lessee, 7 Wheat. 7; County of St.
Clairv. Livingston, 23 Wall. 46, 65.
All the equities are in favor of this contention. Errors in
surveys were always claimed and generally allowed to the
settler. Taylor v. Brown, 5 Cranch, 234, 249. It would be
unjust to curtail the survey. Beckly v. Bryan, Sneed's Ky.
Cas. 107; Johnson v. Buffington, 2 Wash. (Va.), 116; Hozston v. Pillow, 1 Yerg. 481, 488. The most the government
could expect would be payment for excess acreage at original
rate. Lindsay v. Hawes, 2 Black, 554, 560.
Complainants are not chargeable with notice of fraud on the
part of the surveyor, or of the discrepancy in the acreage; nor
if they are, would their rights be affected. Anderson v. Richardson, 92 California, 623; Land Co. v. Saunders, 103 U. S. 316,
322, and other cases cited supra.
It is not a material circumstance that the government contractor and deputy surveyor to whom the government confided
the subdivision of this township may have fraudulently neglected to perform his duty. Murphy v. Kirwan, 103 Fed. Rep.
104, 107, reversed in this court but on other grounds, 189 U. S.
35.
The absence of survey expressly appeared in Simm's Lessee
v. Baker, Cooke (Tenn.), 146, and in Singleton v. Whiteside, 5
Yerg. at p. 36, and in Whiteside v. Singleton, Meigs (Tenn.),
207, 218. And see also Fowler v. Nixon, 7 Ileisk. 719, 724;
Sturgeon v. Floyd, 3 Rich. 80; Stafford v. Quig, 30 Texas, 257;
Phillipps v. Ayers, 45 Texas, 605; Jones v. Burget, 46 Texas,
292.
The meander line cannot be used as a boundary line to cut

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 177
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

off plaintiff's lots. Bruce v. Taylor, 2 J. J. Marshall, 160.
Monuments are superior to meander lines. Shurmeier v. St.
Paul R. R. Co., 10 Minnesota, 59; St. Paul R. R. Co. v. Schurrneier, 7 Wall. 272, 286; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371;
Middleton v. Pritchard,3 Scam. 510; Mitchell v. Smale, 140
U. S. 406; Sizior v. Logansport, 151 Indiana, 626; Boorman v.
Sunnucks, 42 Wisconsin, 233; Everson v. City of Waseca, 44
Minnesota, 247; Lamprey v. State, 52 Minnesota, 181; Forsyth
v. Smale, Fed. Cas. 4950; Schlosser v. Cruikshank, 96 Iowa, 424;
S. C., 65 N. W. R'ep. 344; Menasha Co. v. Lawson, 70 Wisconsin,
600; Coburn v. San Mateo County, 75 Fed. Rep. 520.
The question in this case is identical with that involved in
the case of Murphy v. Kirwin, which involved the title to other
portions of this same belt of land lying between Cedar Island
Lake and its meander line. See 83 Fed. Rep. 275; 103 Fed.
Rep. 104; 109 Fed. Rep. 354, and analogous to Nicolin v.
Schneiderhan, 37 Minnesota, 63, and Olson v. Thorndike, 76
Minnesota, 399.
Natural monuments when embraced in the calls of surveys
of patents have-absolute control and both course and distance
must yield to their influence. Brown v. Huger, 21 How. 305,
318; Preston'sHeirs v. Bowmar, 6 Wheat. 581; Tyler on Boundaries, 30; Menasha Wooden Ware Co. v. Lawson, 36 N. W. Rep.
(Wis.) 412; Wright v. Day, 33 Wisconsin, 263; Sphrang v.
Moore, 22 N. E. Rep. (Ind.) 319; Palmer v. Dodd, 31 N. W.
Rep. (Mich.) 209.
Meander lines have no significance as boundary lines and are
only intended to afford a means of computing the number of
acres the government requires payment for, nor is the grantee
limited to the number of acres specified in the patent. St.
Clair v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46, 62; Fuller v. Dauphin, 124
Illinois, 542; Clute v. Michigan, 65 Michigan, 48; Chan v.
Brandt, 45 Minnesota, 93; St. Paul &c. R. R. Co. v. St. Paul &c.
R. R. Co., 26 Minnesota, 31; Ladd v. Osborn, 79 Iowa, 93;
Heald v. Yumisko, 7 N. D. 427; Jones v. Pettibone, 2 Wisc6nsin,
308, 320; Lodge's Lessee v. Lee, 6 Cranch, 237; French v. BanVOL. oxciii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

head, 11 Gratt. 136, 157; Lynch v. Allen, 4 Dev. Bat. 62;
Kelley v. Graham, 9 Watts, 116.
Cases cited by defendant in error can be distinguished from
this case.
As involving the construction of a Federal survey the case
is reviewable by this court. French-Glenn Co. v. Springer, 185
U. S. 47, 54; Cousin v. Labatut, 19 How. 202; Magwire v. Tyler,
1 Black, 195, 203; Railroad Co. v. Schuurmeier, 7 Wall. 272;
Kennedy's Errs. v. Hunt's Lessee, 7 How. 586, 594; Packer v.
Bird, 137 U. S. 661; Knight v. Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161;
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Glasgow v. Baker, 128 U. S. 57.
Mr. John R. Van Derlip and Mr. R. T. Brig.%, with whom
Mr. George P. TVilson was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The land in controversy in this case is described in the
foregoing statement of facts, and it lies between the meander
line as it appears on the plat of the survey referred to in the
patents and the actual borders of the lake. (See the sketch
of the plat at page 43 of voliune 189, United States Reports.)
Regarding the question of the boundaries, counsel for plaintiff
in error assert in their brief that if distance is to prevail, then
the land in controversy is an unsurveyed strip lying l)etween
the lots of the plaintiff in error and the lake; while if the natural
monument is to prevail, then the strip of land in controversy
is part and parcel of the lots of the plaintiff in error. The
boundaries of the lots as shown upon the plat of survey giving
the so-called meander line of the lake, described in the field
notes, are unquestionably correct, so far as the three sides of
the fractional lots are concerned, and the only difference is as
to the side which purports to front on the lake. In regard to
this fourth side, the plaintiff in error, as a remote grantee from
the patentees, bases its claim to the land lying between the

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 179
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

meander line and the lake, upon the grounds that the patents
conveying the lots to the patentees contained the clause:
"According to the official plat of the survey of the said lands
returned to the General Land Office by the surveyor general;"
that the plat of the survey of the lands, by reason of such
reference, became a part of the grant described in the patents;
that the plat showed, as the fourth side of the land granted, a
meander line around Cedar Island Lake; that the lake thereby
became a natural monument or boundary, and that although
the plat of the survey turns out to have been a mistake as to
the position of the lake, and the line was, therefore, not in
truth anything like an accurate meander line, yet by reason of
that plat and of that line, which assumed to show the borders
of a lake, the patentees had the right to claim that they bought
in reliance upon and that they were entitled to a boundary
upon a lake.
In support of these contentions the plaintiff in error cited
Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691, and Jefferis v. East Omaha
Land Co., 134 U. S. 178, 194, as to the effect of a grant according to an official plat of a survey referred to in the grant, and
the cases of McIver's Lessee v. Walker (1815), 9 Cranch, 173;
Newsom v. Pryor's Lessee (1822), 7 Wheat. 7; County of St.
Clair v. Lovingston (1874), 23 Wall. 46; Land Company v.
Saunders (1880), 103 U. S. 316, and other cases, affirming the
general rule that, in matters of boundaries, natural monuments or objects will control courses and distances.
These general rules may be admitted. The rule as to natural
monuments is not, however, absolute and inexorable. It is
founded upon the presumed intention of the parties, to be
gathered from the language contained in the grant, and upon
the assumption that the description by monuments approaches
accuracy within some reasonable distance, and places the
monument somewhere near where it really exists. White v.
Luning, 93 U. S. 514; Ainsa v. United States, 161 U. 9. 208, 229;
Baldwin v. Brown, 16 N. Y. 359; Buffalo &c. Railroad Company
v. Stigeler, 61 N. Y. 348; Higinbotham v. Stoddard, 72 N. Y. 94;

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

Hall v. Eaton, 139 Massachusetts, 217. These cases illustrate,
somewhat, the principle upon which the general rule is founded,
and show how far it has, upon occasion, been regar(de(l as
inapplicable. The patents mention the number of acres contained in each lot, and that, number is stated in the eleventh
finding of the trial judge, which is set forth in the foregoing
statement of facts. The difference between the number of
acres stated in the patents to be in each lot and the number
now claimed by the plaintiff in error is very large, and is subsequently referred to herein. It seems plain that the intention
was to convey no more than the number of acres actually surveyed and mentioned in the patents. In Ainsa v. Un itcd Statc.z
(supra), this is deemed to be a very important and sometimes
a decisive fact. It is true that many cases cited by the plaintiff in error have enforced the superiority of natural monuments over courses and distances where the difference in the
amount of the land conveyed as between the two classes of
description was also very great. In the case at bar, while
there is a great difference in the amount of land so described,
there are at the same time other facts which are material and
which in our opinion, when considered in connection with this
difference, justify and demand a refusal to be controlled by
the borders of the lake as a boundary.
It is well to see what the facts in this case were upon which
the state court founded its decision. They are set forth in
detail in the foregoing statement of facts, but a few of the more
important may be here referred to.
There was, in truth, no such survey as was called for by the
contract between the government and the surveyor. The
exterior lines, with the exception of the south line of the township, were run, but no survey of the interior of the township
was ever made and no section lines thereof were ever run, with
one possible exception, and in truth the survey as a whole was
a fraud. No such body of water at the place indicated on the
plat of survey then existed or now exists. On the contrary,
the lake is from half a mile to a mile away from what is called

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 181
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its meander line on the plat of the survey filed by the surveyor.
It covers only about twenty acres in the southeast corner of
section 4. The surveyor never was on the ground and never
saw the lake he pretended to measure, and the lake never
existed where he laid it down in his fraudulent survey. If the
side lines of the various lots were projected in their course,
those of lot 3 would never reach the lake, and those of lots 5
and 6 would not reach the lake within the limits of section 4,
while the south line of lot 7 would touch the lake, and a few
feet of frontage would then be secured, and that lot would
then have 139 instead of 25.25 acres. The side lines of lots 5,
6 and 7, if protracted, would instantly cross the protracted
side lines of lot 3. There are at least 1,000 acres of high,
tillable land between the actual water line of the lake and the
meander line as returned by the field notes and the plat of
survey, and the land is covered by trees of more than a century's growth and growing down to the water's edge. In order
to bound on the lake the lots would exhibit a totally different
form from that which they take on the plat of survey and
such boundary would violate every rule of statutory survey,
by conveying lands not conforming to the system adopted
by the government and carried out ever since its adoption.
The patentees, it must also be borne in mind, get all the
land they really purchased and paid for, as laid down by the
lines and distances set forth in the survey and as stated in the
patents. These lines and distances (of lots 3, 5, 6 and 7) gave
the patentees 140.87 acres of land, and that was the amount
they paid for, while if the fourth line of the boundary of the
lots were taken out and others substituted in the way shown
by the dotted lines in the plat in 189 U. S. supra, and so as to
reach the borders of the lake as it then actually existed and
now exists, they would get 571 acres, or fourfold more land
than was actually mentioned and described in the patents
conveying these four lots, or than they supposed they were
purchasing, or than they actually paid for.
Upon these facts the question recurs whether the patentees

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

by reason of the general rules above mentioned took these lands
which they now claim, although they never in reality bought
or paid for them. We think they did not; that the rules have
no application to a case like this, and that plaintiff in error
must be confined to the lots which are correctly described
within the lines and distances of the plat of survey and of the
field notes and which the patentees actually bought and paid
for.
The fraudulent character of the survey, the non-existence
of the lake within at least half a mile of the point indicated on
the plat, the excessive amount of land claimed as compared
with that which was described and stated in the patents and
actually purchased and paid for, the difficulty in reaching the
lake at all, and the necessity in order to do it of going outside
of section 4, (with the exception as to a small part of lot 7,) the
section in which the description and plat placed all the land,
all go to show that the lake ought not to be regarded as a
natural monument within the cases, or within the principle
upon which the rule is founded, and therefore the courses and
distances by which the amount of land actually purchased and
paid for was determined, ought to prevail.
The non-existence of a lake anywhere near the spot indicated
on the plat is a strong reason for regarding the so-called meander line as one of boundary instead of a true meander line, and
when the plat itself is the result of a gross fraud, and ildeed
is entirely founded upon it, the reason for refusing to recognize

the lake as a boundary becomes apparent.
The land actually purchased and paid for was conveyed and
covered by the description by courses and distances set forth
in the field notes and referred to in the patents, and the government is concluded as to such land, but the implication of
a boundary by the lake as delineated on the plat of survey,
which might otherwise be made, will not be permitted when
it is based upon such facts as have been already adverted to
in this case. Giving the patentees all the land in acres, stated
in the patents and described and contained in lines and dis-

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 183
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tances in such patents, and which is all they paid for, protects

them, and the government ought not to be further concluded
by the fraudulent acts of a public officer.
As is said in the trial court in this case, there must be some
limit to the length courts will go in search of the water de-

lineated on a plat of survey, with a meander line shown thereon.
If the water were ten miles away, it is certain that a claim to
be bounded thereon would not for one moment be admitted.
A distance of half a mile, enough to plainly show the gross error
of the survey, together with the other facts adverted to herein,
are sufficient to justify a refusal to apply the general rule that
a meander line is not usually one of boundary.
Nor in such case is it necessary to go into equity to reform
the patent. Where the patentee has in fact received and is in
possession of all the land actually described in the lines and
distances, and is seeking for more on the theory that his plat
of survey carries him to the water, a denial of that claim upon
such facts as appear here is well founded, and requires no
reformation of the patent. It is simply a question of boundary, and it is a legal defence, it is but a denial that the land
claimed is in fact included in the patent as it exists, and no
aid of a court of equity is necessary to sustain such a defence.
We think French-GlennLive Stock Company v. Springer, 185
U. S. 47, is authority which calls for the affirmance of this
judgment. In that case the plaintiff claimed under patents
,from the United States, which referred to the official plats of
the survey, and by which it appeared the township was rendered fractional by abutting upon the meander line along the
south side of Malheur Lake, which plat appeared to have been
approved by the Land Department of the government, and
the plat showed the lots as bounded "north by the meander
line of Malheur Lake." The field iotes of the survey of the
exterior boundaries of the township and its subdivisions and
the meander line of Malheur Lake itself, under the title heading "Meanderings of the south shore of Malheur Lake through
fractional township 26," etc., indicated that it was run "with

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

the meander of the lake." The plaintiff in that case claimed
title to land which was just north of this meander line on the
ground that such land was a portion of the lake when the
survey was made and the meander line run around it; that
the water had since receded because of certain facts stated,
and that plaintiff was entitled to the land thus uncovered, as
an accretion by way of reliction to his adjoining land. The
defendant disputed this claim, and asserted that when the
survey was made and the plat thereof, with its meander line,
was referred to in the patent, there was in fact no such lake
anywhere near that spot, and the so-called meander line was
in truth a line bounding plaintiff's land and limiting him
thereby so that he could not go beyond it in order to find the
lake which plaintiff elaimed as a boundary. This court, held
that the line, which appeared on the plat as a meander line of
the lake, was in truth a line of boundary beyond which the
plaintiff could not go in search for the lake. The question
of fact as to which of the two contentions was right, the receding of the water or the non-existence of the lake at the time
of the survey, was submitted to the jury, and that body found
in favor of the defendant's theory. The result of the decision
was to refuse to consider the lake as a natural monument,
because it did not exist at any point near where it was placed
on the plat. What purported on the plat to be a meander line
was held not to be one, but on the contrary it was held to be
a boundary of the land of the plaintiff, beyond which he could
not go. After speaking of the question of fact and its decision
by the jury in favor of the defendant, Mr. Justice Shir's, in
giving the opinion of the court, said:
"The land in dispute, in the possession of the defendant in
error, was not included within the lines of the original survey,
nor in the description of the lots contained in the patents and
in the deeds of conveyance under which the plaintiff in error
holds, and to add the land in controversy to the lots so described would more than double the area of the land claimed
by the plaintiff in error; but the contention of the plaintiff in

SECURITY L.NI) & IR3*PLORiTION CO. v. 3TIRNS. 185
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

error was, in the courts below and now is, in this court, that,
as the plaintiff in error bought in reliance upon the plats and
patents which showed the meander line of the lake, such plats
and patents must be deemed to conclusively establish that the
lake was the northern boundary of the land, so far as the rights
of riparian grantees are concerned.
"While it may be conceded that the description of the lots
contained in the survey, plats and patents are conclusive as
against the government and holders of homesteads, so far as
the lands actually described and granted are concerned, such
conclusive presumption cannot be held to extend to lands not
included within the lines of the survey, and which are only
claimed because of the alleged existence of a lake or body of
water bounding said lots, whose recession has left bare land
accruing to the owners of the abutting lots. We agree with
the Supreme Court of Oregon in thinking that the question
whether the northern boundary of the lots of the plaintiff in
error was an existing lake, the recession of whose waters would
leave the bed of the lake, thus laid bare, to accrue to the owner
of the lots, was a question of fact which was not concluded by
a mere call for a meander line. If, indeed, there had been a
lake in front of these lots at the time of the survey, which lake
had subsequently receded from the platted meander lines,
the claim of the owner of the lots to the increment thus occasioned might be conceded to be good, if such were the law
of the State in which the lands were situated. But if there
never was such a lake-no water forming an actual and visible
boundary-on the north end of the lots, it would seem unreasonable, either to prolong the side lines of the survey indefinitely until the lake should be found, or to change the situs
of the lots laterally in order to adapt it to a neighboring lake.
The jury having found that the facts under this issue were as
claimed by the defendant in error, the conclusion must be that
the rights of the plaintiff in error must be regarded as existing
within the actual lines and distances laid down in the survey
and to the extent of the acreage called for in the patents, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

that the meander line was intended to be the boundary line of
the fractional section."
In the above cited case the important point to be considered
is that the court refused to be bound by the appearance on the
plat of survey showing a meander line of the lake when the
fact was found by the jury (and exists in this case) that at the
time of the survey there was no such lake existing at any point
near where it appeared to be on the plat, and that under those
circumstances a meander line appearing on the plat would be
and was regarded as a line of boundary to the exclusion of
what was claimed to be a natural object, namely, the lake
itself.
It is not important that the plaintiff's claim was founded
upon the allegation that the land there in question was the
result of a subsidence of the water of the lake, and that he
was, therefore, entitled to such land by reason of accretion.
The point lies in the fact that what appeared as a meander
line on the plat was treated as a boundary line and the lake
was held not to be such boundary, for the reasons stated in
the opinion. Those reasons exist in full force in this case,
only here the disparity between the amount of land convoyed
and paid for and the amount now claimed is double that stated
in the case cited. Mr. Justice Shiras in the course of his opinion, refers to other cases in this court as authority for the
proposition that a meander line may be in some cases a line
of boundary limiting the land conveyed or described by the
line itself, and not by any body of water. See Niles v. Cedar
Point Club, 175 U. S. 300, 308; Home v. Smith, 159 U. . 10.
Upon this subject it was well said by the State Supreme Court
in this case as follows:
"The official plat was only intended to be a picture of the
actual conditions on the ground; but the fraudulent mistake
in the plat in this case was so gross that no man actually viewing the premises could possibly be misled, or believe that the
shore line of the lake was intended as the boundary line of the
lots. He would understand at once that the meander line

SECURITY LAND & EXPLORATION CO. v. BURNS. 187
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as traced on the plat was the actual boundary line of the
lots.
"This case, then, is one where the call for the natural monument, the lake, must be disregarded; for the admitted facts
show that it is an impossible call, and that, if it is rejected,
the courses and distances and the meander line will exactly
close, and give to the plaintiff the precise quantity of land
bought from the government and paid for. It falls within the
rule that a meander line is not, as a general proposition, a
boundary line; yet the boundaries of fractional lots will not
be indefinitely extended where they appear by the government plat to abut on a body of water which in fact has never
existed at substantially the place indicated on the plat. In
such exceptional cases, the supposed meander line will, if
consistent with the other calls and distances indicated on the
plat, mark the limits of the survey, and be held to be the
boundary line of the land it delimits."
That this was a fraudulent survey cannot be denied. Still,
the government is concluded by such survey, so far as the lands
actually described, granted and paid for are concerned, but it
will not be concluded in regard to other lands, which were not
within the lines of the survey, and which are only claimed
because of the alleged existence of a lake or body of water
bounding said lots, when such lake or body of water is in fact
and always has been more than half a mile away from such
lots, and where the patentee has received all the land that he
actually paid for.
It appears from the various reports of the case of Kirwan
v. Murphy, cited by plaintiff in error, that the government
was intending to make a survey of that portion of this township
lying between the alleged meander line and the actual lake,
as unsurveyed land, when certain grantees of patentees of lots,
which by the plat of survey bounded on the lake, commenced
proceedings to obtain an injunction to prevent what was
alleged would be a resurvey. The case is first reported in 83
Fed. Rep. 275, where the opinion of the Circuit Court of Ap-

