tATON v. 13AOWN.
193 T1. S.

Counsel for Appellant.

trade, every such combination, as well the small as the great,
is within the act.
In view of my interpretation of the statute I do not go further into the question of the power of Congress. That has
been dealt with by my brother White and I concur in the main
with his views. I am happy to know that only a minority of
my brethren adopt an interpretation of the law which in my
opinion would make eternal the bellum omnium contra omnes
and disintegrate society so far as it could into individual atoms.
If that were its intent I should regard calling such a law a
regulation of commerce as a mere pretense. It would be.an
attempt to reconstruct society. I am not concerned with the
wisdom of such an attempt, but I believe that Congress was
not entrusted by the Constitution with the power to make it
and I am deeply persuaded that it has not tried.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSand MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM concur in this dissent.

TICE WHITE

EATON v. BROWN.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 171.

Submitted March 3, 1904.-Decided March 14, 1904.

Courts do not incline to regard a will as conditional where it reasonably can
be held that the testator was merely expressing his inducement to make
it, although his language, if strictly construed, would express a condition.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. J. Altheus Johnson and Mr. Joseph A. Burkart for the
appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

Mr. Thomas Watts for appellee:
It appears plainly that testatrix intended the disposition of
her property to become effectual only in case of the happening
of the contingency specified in the will. Parsons v. Lanoc,
1 Yes. Sr. 190; S. C., Ambler, 557; Sinclair v. Hone, 6 Ves.
Jr. 607; Estate of Winn, 2 Sw. & Tr. 47; Roberts v. Rob(rts, S
Jur. N. S. 220; Matter of Porter, L. R. 2 P. & D. 22; In re Robinson, L. R. 2 P. & D. 171; Lindsay v. Lindsay, L. R. 2 P. &
D. 449; In re Ward, 4 Hagg. 179; In re Todd, 2 W. & S. (1a.)
145; Morrow's Appeal, 116 Pa. St. 440; Wagner v. McDonald, 2
Har. & J.346; Maxwell v. Maxwell, 3 Met. (Ky.) 101 ; Dauglu ry
v. Daugherty, 4 Met. (Ky.) 25; Robnett v. Ashlock, 49 Missouri,
171; McGee v. McNeill, 41 Mississippi, 17.
The language used by the respective testators in some of
the cases cited is strikingly similar to that used by testatrix
in the case at bar.
As to the rule for construction of wills, see Keteltas v. KOaltas, 72 N. Y. 312; 3 Jarman on Wills, 708, rule XIX.
MR. JUSTIcE HolMis delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case is whether the following instrument is entitled to probate:
"Washington, D. C. Aug. 31"/001.
"I am going on a Journey and may, not ever return. And
if I do not, this is my last request. The Mortgage on the King
House, wich is in the possession of Mr H H Brown to go to the
Methodist Church at Bloomingburgh All the rest of my
properday both real and personal to My adopted Son L. B.
Eaton of the life Saving Service, Treasury Department Washington D. C, All I have is my one hard earnings and and I
propose to leave it to whome I please.
Caroline Holley."
The case was heard on the petition, an answer denying the
allegations of the same, except on a point here immaterial, and

EATON r. BROWN.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

setting up that the residence of the deceased was in New York,
and upon a stipulation that the instrument was written and
signed by the deceased on August 31, 1901, and that she went
on her journey, returned to Washington, resumed her occupation there as a clerk in the Treasury Department, and died
there on December 17, 1901. Probate was denied by the
Supreme Court with costs against the appellant, and this
decree was affirmed by the Court of Appeals upon the ground
that the will was conditioned upon an event which did not
come to pass. It will be noticed that the domicil of the testatrix in Washington was not admitted in terms. But the Court
of Appeals assumed the allegation of the petition that she was
domiciled in Washington to be true, and obviously it must
have been understood not to be disputed. The argument for
the appellee does not mention the point. The petition also
sets up certain subsequent declarations of the deceased as
amounting to a republication of the will after the alleged failure
of condition, but as these are denied by the answer they do not
come into consideration here.
It might be argued that logically the only question upon the
probate was the factum of the instrument. Pohiman v. Untzellman, 2 Lee, Eccl. 319, 320. But the practice is well settled
to deny probate if it clearly appears from the contents of the
instrument, coupled with the admitted facts, that it is inoperative in the event which has happened. Parsons v. Lanoe,
1 Ves. Sr. 189; S. C., Ambler, 557; 1 Wils. 243; Sinclairv. Hone,
6 Ves. 607, 610; Roberts v. Roberts, 2 Sw. & Tr. 337; Lindsay v.
Lindsay, L. R. 2 P. & D. 459; Todd's Will, 2 W. & S. 145. The
only question therefore is whether the instrument is void because of the return of the deceased from her contemplated
journey. As to this, it cannot be disputed that grammatically
and literally the words "if I do not" [return] are the condition
of the whole "last request." There is no doubt either of the
danger in going beyond the literal and grammatical meaning
of the words. The English courts are especially and wisely
careful not to substitute a lively imagination of what a testatrix

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

would have said if her attention had been directed to a particular point for what she has said in fact. On the other hand, to
a certain extent, not to be exactly defined, but depending on
judgment and tact, the primary import of isolated words may
be held to be modified and controlled by the dominant intention
to be gathered from the instrument as a whole. Bearing these
opposing considerations in mind, the court is of the opinion that
the will should be admitted to proof.
"Courts do not incline to regard a will as conditional where
it can be reasonably held that the testator was merely expressing his inducement to make it, however inaccurate his
use of language might be, if strictly construed." Damon v.
Damon, 8 Allen, 192, 197. Lord Penzance puts the same
proposition perhaps even more strongly in In the Goods of Porter,
L. R. 2 P. & D. 22, 23; and it is almost a common place. In
the case at bar we have an illiterate woman writing her own
will. Obviously the first sentence, "I am going on a journey
and may not ever return," expresses the fact which was on her
mind as the occasion and inducement for writing it. If that
had been the only reference to the journey the sentence would
have had no further meaning. Cody v. Conly, 27 Gratt. 313.
But with that thought before her, it was natural to an uneducated mind to express the general contingency of death in
the concrete form in which just then it was presented to her
imagination. She was thinking of the possibility of death or
she would not have made a will. But that possibility at that
moment took the specific shape of not returning from her
journey, and so she wrote "if I do not return," before giving
her last commands. We need not consider whether if the will
had nothing to qualify these words, it would be impossible to
get away from the condition. But the two gifts are both of
a kind that indicates an abiding and unconditioned intentone to a church, the other to a person whom she called her
adopted son. The unlikelihood of such a condition being
attached to such gifts may be considered. Skipwilh v. Cabell,
19 Gratt. 758, 783. And then she goes on to say that all that

EATON v. BROWN.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

she has is her own hard earnings and that she proposes to leave
it to whom she pleases. This last sentence of self-justification
evidently is correlated to and imports an unqualified disposition of property, not a disposition having reference to a special
state of facts by which alone it is justified and to which it is
confined. If her failure to return from the journey had been
the condition of her bounty, an hypothesis which is to the last
degree improbable in the absence of explanation, it is not to be
believed that when she came to explain her will she would not
have explained it with reference to the extraordinary contingency upon which she made it depend instead of going on to
give a reason which on the face of it has reference to an unconditioned gift.
It is to be noticed that in the leading case cited for the
opposite conclusion from that which we reach, Parsons v.
Lanoe, Lord Hardwicke emphasizes the proposition that under
the circumstances of that case no Court of Equity would give
any latitude to support such a will. There the will began "in
case I should die before I return from the journey I intend,
God willing, shortly to undertake for Ireland." The testator
then was married but had no children. He afterwards returned from Ireland and had several children. If the will
stood the children would be disinherited, and that was the
circumstance which led the Lord Chancellor to say what we
have mentioned, and to add that courts would take hold of
any words they could to make the will conditional and contingent. Ambler, 561; 1 Ves. Sr. 192. It is to be noticed
further that in the more important of the other cases relied
on by the appellees the language or circumstances confirmed
the absoluteness of the condition. For instance, "my wish,
desire, and intention, now is that if I should not return, (which
I will, no preventing Providence)." Todd's Will, 2 W. & S.
145. There the language in the clearest way showed the alternative of returning to have been present to the testator's mind
when the condition was written, and the will was limited
further by the word "now." Somewhat similar was In the

