UNITED STATES v. McCOY.
193 U. S.

Statement ofth Case:

question presented on this record. The cases have been frequently referred to approvingly. Earle,v. Carson, .188 U. S.
42, and authorities there cited. The contention that, although
the condition in the certificate was void, nevertheless it operated as a notice to the insurance company, and thereby deprived it of its right to compel the transfer of the stock, but
asserts in another form that there was power, by the insertion
of such a condition in the certificate of stock to deprive the
stock of a national bank of its attribute of sale like any other.
personal property. The extension wholly ignores not only the
text of the law, but the rule of public policy which the national
bank act has been decided to embody.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. McCOY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE

NINTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 148. Submitted January 28, 1904.-Decided.April 4, 19M4.

Official reports and certificates made contemporaneously with the facts
stated, and in the regular course of official duty, by an officer having
personal knowledge of them, are admissible for the purpose of proving
such facts.
On the trial of an action brought by the United States against the sureties
on a bond to secure the performance of a contract to carry mail, the

Government makes a prima facie case on producing a certified copy from
the books of the Auditor for the Post Office Department of the contractor
as a failing contractor, and showing the amount of his indebtedness,
telegrams from the local postmaster to the Postmaster General to the
effect that the contractor had abandoned the service, and 'the finding
of the Postmaster General that the contractor was a failing contractor.

THIS suit was commenced by the Government to recover an
amount alleged to be due on a bond to secure the performance
of a contract to carry mail. The defendants were McCoy,, the
VOL. cxciii-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

contractor and principal in the bond, and his sureties. The
cause was put at issue by a general denial and was tried in
November, 1899. The Government prosecuted error from a
judgment of non-suit which was entered against it. The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit decided that the
trial court was "right in holding that the documents offered
in evidence by the plaintiff were legally insufficient to make out
a prima facie case for damages on account of the alleged entire
failure of McCoy to perform the service provided in the contract." It was, however, held that a prima facie right to recover the amount of a fine of five dollars had been established.
The judgment was, therefore, reversed and the case remanded
for a new trial. 104 Fed. Rep. 669. A second trial took place
in May, 1901. At that trial the case made by the Government
was as follows: McCoy, being the lowest bidder, was awarded a
contract for carrying the mails from July 1, 1890, to June 30,
1894, between the post office at San Francisco and certain
railroad stations and steamboat landings, and executed the
bond which was sued on. On May 3, 1893, the postmaster at
San Francisco telegraphed the Post Office Department that,
under a judgment rendered against McCoy, the sheriff had
seized the wagons used by him in executing his contract, and
would sell them on May 5; that the prob,'ble result of this
sale would be to render it impossible for McCoy to continue
to perform his contract, and that some temporary arrangement would be necessary, and asking instructions in the
premises. Three days later, on May 8, the postmaster telegraphed the department that the service had been absolutely
abandoned by McCoy, and that a temporary arrangement
had been made to last until the department could act. On
the day after the receipt of this telegram (May 9) the Post
Office Department addressed a letter to McCoy, care of Zevely
and Finley, Washington, D. C., giving the substance of the
two telegrams above referred to, and asking if McCoy intended
to carry out his contract. On May 17 the department telegraphed the sureties on McCoy's bond, informing them that

UNITED STATES v. McCOY.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

McCoy had failed to perform his contract, and inquiring if they
would assume the service. On the same day the department
by telegram informed the postmaster at San Francisco that his
action in providing a temporary arrangement for the performance of the service was approved. On May 18 a telegram was
received by the department from one of the sureties of McCoy,
saying that he, the surety, was unable to perform the contract,
and requesting to be relieved from all future liability on the
bond, because his signature thereto had been "improperly
obtained." On the same day (May 18) a finding was made by
the Postmaster General that McCoy was a failing contractor,
this finding being evidenced by the following certificate:
"State of California. No. 76,475.
"Regulation wagon service, San Francisco, San Francisco
County. Contractor, C. C. McCoy. Pay, $7,700.00.
"Whereas C. C. McCoy, contractor on this route under the
advertisement of September 16, 1889, has failed to perform
the service, he is hereby declared a failing contractor.

"W. S. BISSELL,
"Date, May 18, 1893.

Postmaster General."

The department subsequently advertised for proposals for
the remaining period of McCoy's term, and the same was let
to one Popper, and a contract entered into with him on the
subject. Thereupon the Auditor of the Post Office Department stated the account of McCoy as a failing contractor.
That account charged on the debit side the sum paid for temporary service from May 5 to August 13, 1893, the date when
the new contract was awarded, and also the difference between the amount stipulated to be paid in the McCoy contract
and that which the Government had contracted to pay Popper,
the new contractor, from August 14, 1893, to June 30, 1894,
when the McCoy contract would have terminated. The account, moreover, stated a charge against McCoy of $5, the
amount of a fine which had been imposed on him by the department during the third quarter of 1893. McCoy was cred-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

ited with the whole sum which he would have earned had he
performed his obligations, the balance to the debit being the
amount sued for, $5,772.99. After the Government had shown
the facts above stated, it rested its case, and the defendants
offered no evidence whatever.
The Government then requested an instruction in its favor
on the ground that a prima facie case of liability had been
proven. Exception was taken to the refusal of the court to
give this instruction.
The court charged the jury as follows:
"It will not be necessary for you to retire to consider this
case. You can render a verdict from your seats. This is an
action in which the Government sued to recover damages for
breach of a mail contractor's bond-breach of the contract.
The action is against the contractor and the sureties Upon his
bond. The Government claims damages for the total abandonment of the contract without having performed it, an(l as to
that claim all the evidence that has been offered on the part
of the Government is insufficient to prove that there was an
abandonment, there being no testimony of any witness having
knowledge of the fact that the contractor did fail. The evidence includes the statement of account made up by the auditing department of the Government, in which there appears to
have been a fine of five dollars imposed upon the contractor
for a particular failure, and in accordance with the decision of
the-Circuit Court of Appeals for this circuit that evidence is
sufficient prima facie to entitle the Government to recover the
five dollars, and the defendants here in open court. have admitted liability for that five dollars. Therefore your verdict
will be in favor of the Government for the sum of five (lollars.
I have prepared a verdict which you will select one of your
number to sign as foreman, and that will be your verdict in
the case."
To this instruction the Government saved an exception.
From a judgment in favor of the defendants for all but five
dollars of the amount claimed, the Government prosecuted

UNITED.STATES v. MCOY.
193 U. S.

Argumeft f6r Ddfendants iW Error.

error.

The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment
upon the authority of the ruling made by it when the case was
previously before it. This writ of error was thereupon prosecuted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy for the United States:
The various provisions of the United States statutes which
are relied upon by the Government as authorizing the introduction of the documentary evidence offered by the Government in this case, and making such documents prima facie
evidence of the facts therein recited are Rev. Stat. §§ 882, 889,
3849, 3962; Act of June 8, 1872, ch. 335, §§ 245-247, 251, as
amended 1874, i876, 17 Stat. 313, 314; 18 Stat. 235; act of
August 3, 1882, ch. 379, § 22, 22 Stat. 216.
The documentary evidenice was sufficient. Greenleaf on
Evidence, §J483, 493; Taylor on Evidence, vol. 3, § 1591;
Wharton on Evidence, vol. 1, §§ 639, 640; United States v.
Carr, 132 U, S. 644, 653; Evanston v. Gunn, 99 U. S. 660, and
cases cited on p. 665; Bingham v. Cabot, 3 Dall. 19, 38.
The certified copy of the records in the auditor's office of the
Post Office Department of the account of C. C. McCoy, as
failing contractor, for the amount of actual damages sustained
by the United States, taken ini connection with the other testimony offered, is prima facie evidence not only of the fact and
the amount of the indebtedness, but also of the time when and
the manner in which it arose. Soule v. United States, 100
U. S. 8, 11; United States v. Stone, 106 U. S. 525, 530; United
States v. Dumas, 149 U. S. 278, 285. 'Cases on brief of defendants in error; distinguished.
Mr. E. C. Hughes for defendants in error:
The cases cited by the Government do not control this case,
but see United States v. Buford, 3 Pet. 12; United States v.
Jones, 8 Pet. 375; Hoyt v. United States, 10 How. 109; United
States v.: Forsythe, 6 McLean, 584; United States v. Case, 49
Fed. Rep. 270, in which it was held that transcripts and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

written statements did not make out a prima facie case for
the Government. See also United States v. Corwin, 129 IT. S.
381; and as to presumptions, see United States v. Carr, 132
U. S. 644.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The assignments of errors and arguments at bar present two
questions for decision. First. Were the copies of telegrams
sent by the postmaster at San Francisco to the Post 1ffice
Department admissible in evidence? And, second, if they
were, did the certified copy of the account of McCoy as a failing
contractor from the books of the Auditor for the Post Office
Department, the telegrams from the postmaster at San Francisco and the finding of the Postmaster General that McCoy
was a failing contractor, make out a prima facie case for the
Government? Concerning the first question it suffices to say
that, although it is urged that the telegrams were not admissible because they were merely copies of copies, the originals
being on file in the telegraph office from which the messages
were sent, the record does not show that any ruling on this
subject was insisted on in the trial court, and hence no exception was taken to the introduction of the copies. As the objection that the telegrams were not the best evidence because
they were merely copies was susceptible of being cured, if insisted on, it follows that the failure to so insist and reserve the
question was a waiver of the objection. It then remains only
to consider whether, taking into view the whole case as made
by the Government, a prima facie right to recover was established. Section 889 of the Revised Statutes is as follows:
"Copies of the quarterly returns of postmasters and of any
papers pertaining to the accounts in the office of the Sixth
Auditor, and transcripts from the money-order account-books
of the Post Office Department, when certified by the Sixth
Auditor under the seal of his office, shall be admitted as evi-

UNITED STATES v. McCOY.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dence in the courts of the United States, in civil suits and
criminal prosecutions; and in any civil suit, in case of delinquency of any postmaster or contractor, a statement of the
account, certified as aforesaid, shall be admitted in evidence,
and the court shall be authorized thereupon to give judgment
and award execution, subject to the provisions of law as to
proceedings in such civil suits."
The certified account from the books of the Auditor for the
Post Office Department which was offered in evidence came
clearly within this statute. The items in that account were
ascertained and established in the regular course of official
action by the department, and represented disbursements
made in the ordinary course of business for temporary service
and under the new contract, all of which was occasioned by the
actual or assumed default of McCoy. The payments shown
by the items, therefore, properly appeared on the books of the
Treasury Department. The account was clearly therefore
competent, at least, for the purpose of showing the amount of
the indebtedness, if any, existing. United States v. Stone, 106
U. S. 525. As, however, the correctness of the items in the
account depended upon proof of the fact of the delinquency of
McCoy, the contractor, it remains to determine whether the
evidence introduced by the Government at the trial prima facie
established such delinquency; in other words, whether the evidence was sufficient, in the absence of proof to the contrary, to
show that McCoy had totally abandoned his contract on
May 5, 1893. The solution of this question depends upon the
probative force of the official finding by the Postmaster General that McCoy was a failing contractor, based, as it was,
upon the official report on the subject made to the department
by the postmaster at San Francisco.
In United States v. Dumas, 149 U. S. 278, the court considered the act of June 17, 1878, 20 Stat. 140, chapter 259,
paragraph 1, which provides: "That in any case where the
Postmaster General shall be satisfied that a postmaster, has
made a false return of business, it shall be within his discretion

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

to withhold commissions on such returns, and to allow any
compensation that under the circumstances he may deem reasonable." The facts were as follows: On August 11, 1888, the
then Postmaster General made an order, reciting his "being
satisfied" that Dumas had made false returns of business at,
the office of which he had been postmaster, and declaring that
in the exercise of the discretion conferred by acts of Congress
the commissions on such returns were withheld, and the compensation of the postmaster was fixed as stated in the order.
As a result of this finding by the Postmaster General, an action
was subsequently brought against the postmaster and his
sureties, and it was decided that the order of the Postmaster
General and the certified accounts of the Government, which
were produced and which were founded upon such order, were
held to be prima fcicie evidence of the balance due the Government.
Moreover, by section 3962 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that"The Postmaster General may make deductions from the
pay of contractors, for failures to perform service according to
contract, and impose fines upon them for other delinquencies.
He may deduct the price of the trip in all cases where the trip
is not performed; and not exceeding three times the price if
the failure be occasioned by the fault of the contractor or
carrier."
And the second section of the act of August 3, 1882, c. 379,
22 Stat. 216, provides as follows:
"SEc. 2. Whenever a contractor for postal service fails to
commence proper service under the contract, or, having commenced service, fails to continue in the proper performance
thereof, the Postmaster General may employ temporary service
on the route, at a rate of pay per annum not to exceed the
amount of the bond required to accompany proposals for
service on such route, as specified in the advertisement of the
route, or at not exceeding pro rata of such bond, in cases where
service shall'have been ordered to be increased, reduced, cur-

UNITED STATES v. McCOY.
103 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taild, or changed, subsequent to the execution of the contract; the cost of such temporary service to be charged to the
contractor, and to continue until the contractor commences
or resumes the proper performance of service, or until the route
can be relet, as now provided by law, and service commenced
under the new award of contract, all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act being hereby repealed."
These provisions, by necessary implication, declare that
whenever the Postmaster General "is satisfied," from evidence
presented to him, that conditions exist which justify the imposition of fines or the deciding that a postal contractor has
abandoned the performance of his contract, the Postmaster
General may act as authorized in such provisions. It would
seem to be an appropriate act for the Postmaster General to
make distinct official evidence of the fact of such finding, to
be filed among the archives of his office. The pertinency of
such an official finding was, as has been shown, recognized in
the Dumas case; and, when coupled, as it is in the case at bar,
with the reports upon which the finding in the certificate was
based, we think the certificate was legally competent to establish prima facie the fact that McCoy had abandoned his contract. It was made the duty of the postmaster at San Francisco, by section 3849 of the Revised Statutes, to "promptly
report to the Postmaster General every delinquency, neglect
or malpractice of the contractors, their agents or carriers,
which comes to his knowledge." The reports embodied in the
telegrams in question on their face show that they related to
facts which had come to the knowledge of the postmaster,
bearing upon the delinquency of McCoy, particularly the
iltimate fact of total abandonment by McCoy of his contract.
The opinion in United States v. Corwin, 129 U. S.381, contains
a clear recognition of the competency, as evidence, of official
communications of this character, when made to those higher
in authority, as supporting and giving evidential weight to
findings based thereon. The reports contained in the tele-

