TINKER v. COLWELL.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

struction or application of any provision of the Constitution

of the United States.
Writ of errordismissed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER is of opinion that this court has jurisdiction, that the judgment of the Circuit Court was right, and
should be affirmed.

TINKER v. COLWELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 160. Argued February 26, 190.-Decided March 21, 1904.
The personal and exclusive rights of a husband with regard to the person
of his wife are interfered with and invaded by criminal conversation with
her, and such an act constitutes an assault even when the wife consents
to the act, as such consent cannot affect the rights of the husband against
the wrongdoer; and the assault constitutes an injury to the husband's
rights and property which is both malicious and willful within the meaning
of subdivision 2 of section 17 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, and a judgment obtained by the husband on such a cause of action is not released
by the jucment debtor's discharge in bankruptcy,

THE plaintilT in error applied to the Supreme Court of the
State of New York for an order discharging of record a certain
judgment of that court obtained against him by the defendant
in error. The application was denied, 6 Am. Bankruptcy Rep.
434, and the order denying it was affirmed by the appellate
division of the Supreme Court, 65 App. Div. (N. Y.) 20, and
subsequently by the Court of Appeals, 169 N. Y. 531, and the
latter court thereupon remitted the record to the Supreme
Court, where it remained at the time plaintiff in error sued
out this writ to review the order of the Court of Appeals.
The application was made under section 1268 of the New
York code, which provides that any time after one year has

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

elapsed since a bankrupt was discharged from his debts, pursuant to the act of Congress relating to bankruptcy, he may
apply, after notice to the plaintiff in the judgment, and upon
proof of his discharge, to the court in which the judgment was
rendered against him for an order directing the judgment to
be cancelled and discharged of record. The section further
provides that if it appear on the hearing that he has been discharged from the payment of that judgment or the debt upon
which such judgment was recovered, an order must be made directing the judgment to be cancelled and discharged of record.

The application in this proceeding was made upon a petition
by plaintiff in error, which showed that Frederick L. Colwell,
the plaintiff in the action, had, on February 9, 1897, recovered
a judgment for $50,000 and costs against the petitioner for
damages for his criminal conversation with the plaintiff's wife;
that the judgment was duly docketed in the county of New
York on that day; that on September 13, 1899, petitioner filed
his petition in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, praying that he might be
adjudged a bankrupt, and on that day he was adjudged a
bankrupt by the District Court, pursuant to the act of Congress relating to bankruptcy; on February 2, 1900, the petitioner was discharged by the District Court of the United
States from all debts and claims which were made provable
by the act of Congress against his estate, and which existed
on September 13, 1899; that the judgment above mentioned
was not recovered against him for a willful and malicious injury
to the person or property of the plaintiff, within the meaning
of the act of Congress, and that by virtue of the discharge in
bankruptcy -the petitioner had been duly released from that
judgment.
In granting the discharge under the bankrupt act (which was
opposed by the plaintiff in the judgment) the district judge
refused to pass upon the question whether the judgment was
thereby released, although it appears that he thought it was.
99 Fed. Rep. 79.

TINKER v. COLWELL.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Nelson Smith for plaintiff in error:
The discharge of the plaintiff in error in bankruptcy released
him from the payment of the judgment in question, it not
having been recovered in an action for any of the causes mentioned in the exceptions of section 17a of the Bankrupt Act
as the same existed at the time the discharge was granted.
Bradenburg on Bankruptcy, 264.
As the enacting clause of this section is general that a discharge shall release a bankrupt from all his provable debts,
save such as' are expressly excepted, the exceptions to it must
be strictly construed and the burden is on the defendant in
error to show that his debt falls within the exceptions. United
States v. Dickinson, 15 Pet. 141, 165; Spiers v. Parker,1 T. R.
141; 1 Sedgwick on Construction of Statutes (2d ed.), 50; Potter's Dwarris on Statutes, 118.
The debts excepted are judgments recovered in actions for
fraud or for willful and malicious injuries to the person or property of another. This means that the gravamen of the action
must be for fraud or for malice as the case may be. Burnham
v. Pidcock, 58 App. Div. (N. Y.) 273, 275; S. C., 5 Am. B.
R. 590; Matter of Rhutassel, 2 Am. B. R. 697; S. C., 96 Fed.
Rep. 597; Hargadine-McKittrickDry Goods Co. v. Hudson, 6
Am. B. R. 657; S. C., 111 Fed. Rep. 361, 363.
The gravamen of the action, in which this judgment was
recovered, was not for a willful and malicious injury to the
person or property of the defendant in error, but, on the contrary, was for the violation of his marital rights-the loss of
consortium with his wife. 2 Greenleaf Ev. sec. 51, and cases
cited; Barnes v. Allen, 1 Abb. Ct. of App. Dec. 111, 117; In re
Tinker, 99 Fed. Rep. 80; Biganette v. Paulet, 134 Massachusetts,
123, 125. See TWeedon v. Timbrel, 5 T. R. 357, and cases in
which it has been followed in England and in this country.
Chambers v. Caulfield, 6 East. Rep. 244; Winter v. Henn,
4 C. & P. 494; Bartelott v. Hawkes, 7 Peak's Cases, 7;
Wilton v. Webster, 7 C. & P. 198; Harvey v. Watson, 7 M. &
G. 644.

OCTOBER T'rERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

Malice is not an ingredient of an action for criminal conversation. 1 Saund. on Pl. & Ev. (5th Am. ed.) 874, 881; Abb.
Trial Ev. (2d ed. ) 863, 867.
The only evidence required to support such an action is
proof of the plaintiff's marriage, and the defendant's sexual
intercourse with his wife. Berdan v. Turney, 99 California,
649; Wales v. Minor, 89 Indiana, 118, 121.
The strict construction of the exceptions of the statute requires that the fraud or malice be actual fraud or actual malice,
and not fraud or malice implied by law; so held in the construction of the word fraud in the bankrupt law of 1867.
Hennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676; Strang v. Bradner, 114
U. S. 555. See bankrupt law of 1867 respecting the effect of
a discharge.
This conversation by the plaintiff in error with the wife of
the defendant in error was not an injury to his person. Nothing short of an immediate physical touching can be considered
a personal injury. Mitchell v. Rochester Ry. Co., 151 N. Y.
107, 109; Victorian Railway Commissioners v. Coultas, L. R.
13 App. Cas. 222, 224-226; Lehman v. Bklyn. City R. R. Co.,
47 Hun, 355.
The criminal conversation complained of was not an injury
to the property of the defendant in error. The husband's right
of consortium is not property or a property right. An action
for the loss of it does not survive, and is not assignable. Cregin,
Adin., v. Bklyn. Crosstown, R. R. Co., 83 N. Y. 595, 596, 597.
This case is not affected in any way by the amendment of
the Bankruptcy Act of February 5, 1903. Collier on Bankruptcy (4th ed.), p. 845; Supplement 1903, 57th Congress, U.
S. Compiled Statutes, 410.
Mr. Thomas McAdam, with whom Mr. George Neuell 1lamlin
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
*Within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act, section 17,
subdivision 2, the judgment in the action sought to be cancelled is a judgment in an action for "injuries to the person

TINKER v. COLWELL.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

or property of the judgment creditor." Re Blumberg, 1 Am.
B. R. 634.
All torts or wrongs which in their nature involve willfulness
and malice were meant to be included in the phrase-actions
"for willful and malicious injuries to the person or property
of another."
The word "injury" as here used can only mean the invasion
of a legal right of another; in other words, a wrong done to a
person in violation of his right; and such is its common interpretation.
Under the general interpretation of the word "injury," it
means any legal wrong which will give a cause of action for
damages to the one whose rights, person or property are injured thereby. Parker v. Griswold, 17 Connecticut, 302;
Wrightman v. Devere, 33 Wisconsin, 575; Penn. R. Co. v.
Marchant, 119 Pa. St. 561; Northern R. Co. v. Carpentier, 13
How. Pr. (N. Y.) 222; Woodruff v. North Bloomfield Gray.
Men. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 781.
The word "injury" is of broader significance than the expression "defraud."
Delanater v. Russell, 4 How. Pr. (N. Y.)
234; 1 Ch. P1. 137; 2 Kent's Coin. 129; 3 Black. Com. 138.
At common law, an action in trespass vi et armis was the
usual form of remedy by a husband for the seduction of his
wife, for the reason that a wife could not give her consent, and
force was in consequence implied. Woodward v. Walton, 2
B. & P. N. N. 476; Guy v. Livesey, Cro. Jac. 501; Parker v.
Bailey, 4 D. & R. 215; 16 E. C. L. 195; 1 Saunders on Pleading
& Ev. (5th Am. ed.) 875; Bedan v. Turney, 99 California, 649;
Wales v. Miner, 89 Indiana, 118; Moore v. Hammoris, 119
Indiana, 510; Jacobson v. Siddal, 12 Oregon, 280; Bouvier
Law Diet. vol. 2, p. 748.
Criminal conversation is a personal injury or wrong to the
husband, an invasion of his rights. Delainater v. Russell, 4
How. Pr. 234; Strauss v. Schwarzwallder, 4 Bas. 627; Bedan
v. Turney, 99 California, 653; 1 Selw. Nisi Prius (13th ed.), 7;
Rigaut v. Gallisard,7 Mod. 81; S. C., 2 Salk. 552; Birt v. Bar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

low, 1 Doug. 171. It is also an invasion of his property rights
as he is entitled to the services of his wife, and this is a right of
property. Cregin v. Railroad, 75 N. Y. 192; 83 N. Y. 595;
Groth v. Washburn, 34 Hun (N. Y.), 509.
It tends to deprive the husband of the wife's services to
himself or in the bearing and proper nurture of and example
to his children. Lundt v. H1artrunit, 41 Illinois, 9; Colwell v.
Tinker, 169 N. Y. 531.
This section of the bankruptcy law has been construed and
held to expressly except judgments in actions for violations
of personal rights, which are relative in their nature. Judgments for damages for the alienation of a wife's affections are
not barred by a discharge in bankruptcy, Leicester v. Hoadley, 71 Pac. Rep. 318; Erline v. Sargent, 23 Ohio Cir. Ct. Rep.
180; or for the seduction of a. daughter, In re Freche, 109 Fed.
Rep. 620; In re Maples, 105 Fed. Rep. 919.
As to the element of maliciousness, see cases last cited.
Bigelow on.Torts, 12; United States v. Reed, 86 Fed. Rep. 309;
2 Burrill's Law Diet. 175; Commonwealth v. York, 9 Mete. 93,
104; Wiggins v. Coffin, 3 Story, 1; Etchberry v. Levielle, 2 Hilt.
(N. Y.) 40; Rounds v. Delaware,etc., R. Co., 3 Hun (N. Y.), 335;
Bromage v. Prosser, 4 Barn. & Cress. 247; Commonwealth v.
Shelling, 16 Pick. (Mass.) 340; Wheeler v. State, 109 Alabama,
60; Times Pub. Co. v. Carlisle, 94 Fed. Rep. 766; Darry v.
People, 10 N. Y. 136; Wilson v. Noonan, 35 Wisconsin, 352;
United States v. King, 34 Fed. Rep. 302.
It is immaterial whether defendant does or does not know
that the woman is married. When he engages in intercourse
with a woman not his wife, he is bound to take notice of her
domestic relations, and he voluntarily assumes the hazard of
being held responsible for any injuries that may result. lWales
v. Miner, 89 Indiana, 118; Calcraft v. Harborough, 4 C. & P.
499; 19 E. C. L. 494. Hence it follows, therefore, that criminal
conversation, being a wrong to the husband, is malicious, being
malicious is also willful, because malice implies willfulness.
State v. Robbins, 66 Maine, 324; Funderburk v. State, 75 Miss-

TINKER v. COLWELL.
193 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

issippi, 20. See also Rounds v. Delaware, etc., R. Co., 3 Hun
(N. Y.), 335; aff'd 64 N. Y. 129; State v. Clark, 29 N. J. L. 98;
Highway Commissioners v. Healey, 54 Michigan, 181; Newell
v. Whitingham, 58 Vermont, 341; Chapman v. Commonwealth,
5 Whart. (Pa.) 429; Fuller v. Chicago, etc., R. Co., 31 Iowa, 204.
"'Willfully" means intentionally. Bouvier, vol. 2, 656; Northern Railway v. Carpentier, 13 How. Pr. (N. Y.) 22.
In any event the burden is on the plaintiff in error to show
the lack of malice and willfulness in the acts upon which the
judgment was predicated, and that the judgment was not for
an injury to person or property.
The mere statement, in the petition, "that the said judgment was not recovered for a willful or malicious injury to the
person or property within the meaning of the said acts of Congress, is a conclusion of law and not a statement of fact, W1hitton v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 243, and cannot be deemed to be
admitted by a failure to deny it. Ritchie v. Mciiludlen, 159
U. S. 241; Pullman Palace Car Go. v. Missouri Pac. R. Co.,
11 Fed. Rep. 636; Dillon v. Barnard,21 Wall. 437.
As to the sufficiency of evidence that a particular debt or
judgment is released by discharge in bankruptcy, the nature
of the action in which the judgment is rendered is determined
by the record, and when it is necessary to consider whether the
judgment is released by a discharge in bankruptcy, the fact
must be determined by the record and not by any allegation
or proof outside of it. Burnham v. Pidcock, 58 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 276; Hargadine,McKittridge D. G. Co. v. Hudson, 111
Fed. Rep. 261; In re Bullis, 7 Am. B. R. 238; Turner v.
Turner, 108 Fed. Rep. 785.
As to the distinction between a proviso and an exception,
see Spiers v. Parker, 1 T. R. 141; 1 Barn. & Adl. 199; Thiebault
v. Gibson, 12 Meeson & Welsby, 88, 740; Rowell v. Janvrin,151
N. Y. 60; Simpson v. Ready, 12 M. & W. 736, 740; Jones v.
Yxen, 1 Ld. Raym. 120; United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168;
Commonwealth v. Hart, 11 Cush. 130.
A judgment such as this is in the nature of a fine or penalty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

In re Cotton, Fed. Cas. No. 3269; Johnson v. Disbrow, 47
Michigan, 59; Johnson v. Allen, 100 N. Car. 131; Cornelius v.
Ham berg, 150 Pa. St. 359.
This element of damage-that of a punitive nature-docs
not depend upon compensation to the plaintiff, but rests upon
the principle that for a malicious and reprehensible act Ihe
defendant may well be punished, and the law's condenmation
of the fault be given voice.
In determining the character of the debts of a bankrupt, the
court will look beyond the form of the judgment and consider
the nature of the liability upon the original cause of action.
Turner v. Turner, 108 Fed. Rep. 785; Boynton v. Ball, 121
U. S. 457, 466.
The purpose of the Bankruptcy Act was to relieve failing
honest debtors from their money obligations, and not to free
tortious debtors from liability for their wrongs. Desler v.
McCauley, 35 Misc. (N. Y.) 411; Turner v. Turner, 108 Fed.
Rep. 785.
'JR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The question herein arising is, whether the judgment obtained against the defendant, petitioner, for damages arising
from the criminal conversation of the defendant with the
plaintiff's wife, is released by the defendant's discharge in
bankruptcy, or whether it is excepted from such release by
reason of subdivision 2, section 17, of the bankruptcy act of
July 1, 1898, which provides that "a discharge in bankruptcy
shall release a bankrupt from all his provable debts, except
such as . . . (2) are judgments in actions for frauds, or
obtaining property by false pretences or false representations,
or for willful and malicious injuries to the person or property
of another;
.
The averment in the petition, that the judgment was not
recovered for a willful and malicious injury to the person or

TINKER v. COLWELL.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property of the plaintiff in the action, is a mere conclusion of
law and not an averment of fact.
If the judgment in question in this proceeding be one which
was recovered in an action for willful and malicious injuries
to the person or property of another, it was not released by
the bankrupt's discharge; otherwise it was.
We are of opinion that it was not released. We think the
authorities show the husband has certain personal and exclusive rights with regard to the person of his wife which are
interfered with and invaded by criminal conversation with her;
that such an act on the part of another man constitutes an
assault even when, as is almost universally the case as proved,
the wife in fact consents to the act, because the wife is in law
incapable of giving any consent to affect the husband's rights
as against the wrongdoer, and that an assault of this nature
may properly be described as an injury to the personal rights
and property of the husband, which is both malicious and
willful. A judgment upon such a cause of action is not released by the defendant's discharge in bankruptcy.
The assault vi et armis is a fiction of the law, assumed at
first, in early times, to give jurisdiction of the cause of action
as a trespass, to the courts, which then proceeded to permit
the recovery of damages by the husband for his wounded
feelings and honor, the defilement of the marriage bed, and for
the doubt thrown upon the legitimacy of children.
Subsequently the action of trespass on the case was sustained for the consequent damage, and either form of action
was thereafter held proper.
Blackstone, in referring to the rights of the husband, says
(3 Black. Com. edited by Wendell, page 139):
"Injuries that may be offered to a person, considered as a
husband, are principally three: abduction, or taking away a
man's wife; adultery, or criminal conversation with her; and
beating or otherwise abusing her. . . . 2. Adultery; or
criminal conversation with a man's wife, though it is, as a
public crime, left by our laws to the coercion of the spiritual
voi.. cxciii-31

OCTOBER TERMJ, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

courts; yet, considered as a civil injury (and surely there can
be no greater), the law gives a satisfaction to the husband for
it by action of trespass vi et armis against the adulterer, wherein
the damages recovered are usually very large and exemplary."
Speaking of injuries to what he terms the relative rights of
persons, Chitty says that for actions of that nature (criminal
conversation being among them) the usual and perhaps the
more correct practice is to declare it trespass vi et arm is and
contra pacen. 1 Ch. P1. (2 vol. ed.) 150, and note h.
In Macfadzen v. Olivant, 13 East. 387, it was held that
the proper action was trespass vi et armis, for that the defendant with force and arms assaulted and seduced the plaintiff's
wife, whereby he lost and was deprived of her comfort, society
and fellowship against the peace and to his damage. Lord
Ellenborough, C. J., among other things, said:
"Then the question is, whether this be an action on the case
or an action of trespass and assault? And it is said that the
latter description only applies to personal assaults on the body
of the plaintiff who sues; but nothing of the sort is said in the
statute. No doubt that an action of trespass and assault may
be maintained by a master for the battery of his servant per
quod servitium amisit; and also by a husband for a trespass
and assault of this kind upon his wife per quod consorlimn
amisit."
In Rigaut v. Gallisard,7 Mod. Rep. 81, Lord Holt, C. J.,
said that if adultery be committed with another man's wife,
without any force, but by her own consent, the husband may
have assault and battery, and lay it vi et armis, and that the
proper action for the husband in such case was a special action,
quia-the defendant his wife rapuit, and not to lay it per quad
consortium amisit.
In Haney v. Townsend, 1 McCord's Rep. 206 (decided in
1821), it was held that case as well as trespass vi el armis isa
proper action for criminal conversation, the court holding that
no doubt trespass was a proper form of action for the injury
done by seducing a wife, but that case was also a proper action.

TINKER v. COLWELL.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Bedan v. Turney, 99 California, 649, decided in 1893, it
was held that the criminal intercourse of the wife with another
man was an invasion of the husband's rights, and it was immaterial whether this invasion was accomplished by force or
by the consent of the wife; that the right belonged to the
husband, and it was no defence to his action for redress that
its violation was by the consent or even by the procurement of
the wife, for she was not competent to give such consent; that
it was not necessary that the husband should show that it was
by force or against her will. The original form of the action
was trespass vi et armis, even though the act was with the consent of the wife, for the reason, as was said by Holt, C. J., in
Rigaut v. Gallisard,7 Mod. Rep. 81, "that the law will not allow
her a consent in such case to the prejudice of her husband."
In M'Clure's Executors v. Miller, 11 N. C. Rep. (4 Hawks)
133, note, page 140, trespass was held to be the proper form of
action in such a case, and that a single act of adultery, though
never manifested in its consequences, is an invasion of the
husband's rights, and the law redresses it. It is also said that
the husband has, so to speak, a property in the body and a
right to the personal enjoyment of his wife. For the invasion
of this right the law permits him to sue as husband.
For the purpose of maintaining the action, it is regarded as
an actual trespass upon the marital rights of the husband,
although the consequent injury is really to the husband on
account of the corruption of the body and mind of the wife,
and it is in this view (that it is a trespass upon the rights of
the husband) that it is held that the consent of the wife makes
no difference; that she is incapable of giving a consent to an
injury to the husband. 7 Mod. Rep. 81.
In Wales v. Miner, 89 Indiana, 118, decided in 1883, it was
held that in an action of crim. con. the wife was incapable of
consenting to her own seduction so as to bar her husband's
right of action.
In Bagaoutte v. Paulet, 134 Massachusetts, 123, it was held
the action could be maintained whether the conversation was

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

with or without the consent of the wife, and although the act
caused no actual loss of the services of the wife to the husband.
Many of the cases hold that the essential injury to the husband consists in the defilement of the marriage bed, in the
invasion of his exclusive right to marital intercourse with his
wife and to beget his own children. This is a right of the highest kind, upon the thorough maintenance of which the whole
social order rests, and in order to the maintenance of the action
it may properly be described as a property right.
In Delamater v. Russell, 4 How. Pr. (N. Y.) 234, it was held
that the act complained of (criminal conversation) was an
injury to the person of the plaintiff; that it was an invasion of
his personal rights; and although the action was brought for
depriving the plaintiff of the comfort, society, fellowship, aid
and assistance of the wife, yet it was an action brought for an
injury to and an invasion of the plaintiff's personal rights.
The plaintiff in error refers to the case of Cregin v. Brooklyn
Crosstown Railroad Company, 75 N. Y. 192; same case upon
second appeal, 83 N. Y. 595, for the purpose of showing that
the right to the society of the wife is not property, and therefore cannot be regarded as within the words of the bankruptcy
act. The case does not decide that the right to the wife's
society and comfort is not a property right on the part of the
husband. It was a case brought by the husband against the
railroad company for injuries negligently inflicted on the person
of his wife by the company, and after the action was brought.
the husband died, and an application was made to revive the
action in the name of the administrator of the husband. The
court held that the action survived under the provisions of the
state statute. 2 Rev. Stat. N. Y. 447, section 1. The ease
then went to trial and the judge submitted to the jury the
question of damages arising for the loss of the services of the
wife and of her society, and it was held to be error by the
Court of Appeals, because, while the right to the services of
the wife was property, the right to her society, etc., was not
property within the meaning of the statute providing for the

TINKER v. COLWRvLL.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

survival of the cause of action, for the reason that the statute
only provided for the survival of those rights the loss of which
diminished the estate of the deceased; that the loss of the
services of the wife did diminish the estate of the deceased, but
that the loss to the husband of the wife's society and aid, etc.,
did not diminish his estate, and therefore the right of action
consequent thereon did not survive the deceased. The question in the case at bar neither arose nor was referred to in the
opinions delivered in that case.
We think it is made clear by these references to a few of the
many cases on this subject that the cause of action by the
husband is based upon the idea that the act of the defendant
is a violation of the marital rights of the husband in the person
of his wife, to the exclusion of all others, and so the act of the
defendant is an injury to the person and also to the property
rights of the husband.
We think such an act is also a willful and malicious injury
to the person or property of the husband, within the meaning
of the exception in the statute.
There may be cases where the act has been performed without any particular malice towards the husband, but we are of
opinion that, within the meaning of the exception, it is not
necessary that there should be this particular, and, so to speak,
personal malevolence toward the husband, but that the act
itself necessarily implies that degree of malice which is sufficient to bring the case within the exception stated in the
statute. The act is willful, of course, in the sense that it is
intentional and voluntary, and we think that it is also malicious within the meaning of the statute.
In order to come within that meaning as a judgment for a
willful and malicious injury to person or property, it is not
necessary that the cause of action be based upon special
malice, so that without it the action could not be maintained.
In Bromage v. Prosser, 4 Barn. & Cres. 247, which was an
action of slander, Mr. Justice Bayley, among other things, said:
"Malice, in common acceptation, means ill will against a

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

person, but in its legal sense it means a wrongful act, done
intentionally, without just cause or excuse. If I give a perfect
stranger a blow likely to produce death, I do it of malice, because I do it intentionally and without just cause or excuse.
If I maim cattle, without knowing whose they are, if I poison
a fishery, without knowing the owner, I do it of malice, because
it is a wrongful act, and done intentionally. If I am arraigned of felony, and willfully stand mute, I am said to do it
of malice, because it is intentional and without just cause or
excuse. And if I traduce a man, whether I know him or not
and whether I intend to do hiln an injury or not, I apprehend
the law considers it as done of malice, because it is wrongful
and intentional. It equally works an injury, whether I meant
to produce an injury or not.

"

We cite the case as a good definition of the legal meaning of
the word malice. The law will, as we think, imply that degree
of malice in an act of the nature under consideration, which is
sufficient to bring it within the exception mentioned.
In In re Freche, (U. S. District Court, District of New Jersey,
1901) 109 Fed. Rep. 620, it was held that a judgment for the
father in an action to recover damages for the seduction of his
daughter was for a willful and malicious injury to the person
and property of another, within the meaning of section 17 of
the bankrupt act, and was not released by a discharge in
bankruptcy. Kirkpatrick, District Judge, in the course of
his opinion, said:
"From the nature of the case, the act of the defendant Freche
which caused the injury was willful, because it was voluntary.
The act was unlawful, wrongful and tortious, and, being willfully done, it was, in law, malicious. It was malicious because
the injurious consequences which followed the wrongful act
were those which might naturally be expected to result from
it, and which the defendant Freche must be presumed to have
had in mind when he committed the offence. 'Malice,' in
law, simply means a depraved inclination on the part of a
person to disregard the rights of others, which intent is mani-

TINKER v. COLWELL.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fested by his injurious acts. While it may be true that in his
unlawful act Freche was not actuated by hatred or revenge or
passion towards the plaintiff, nevertheless, if he acted wantonly against what any man of reasonable intelligence must
have known to be contrary to his duty, and purposely prejudicial and injurious to another, the law will imply malice."
In Leicester v. Hoadley, (Supreme Court of Kansas, 1903)
71 Pac. Rep. 318, it was held that a judgment obtained by a
wife against another woman for damages sustained by the wife
by reason of the alienation of the affections of her husband
is not released by the discharge of the judgment debtor under
proceedings in bankruptcy, where such alienation has been
accomplished by schemes and devices of the judgment debtor,
and resulted in the loss of support and impairment of health
to the wife.
It was further held that injuries so inflicted are willful and
malicious, and are to the person and property of another,
within the meaning of section 17 of the United States bankrupt law.
In United States v. Reed, 86 Fed. Rep. 308, it was held that
malice consisted in the willful doing of an act which the person
doing it knows is liable to injure another, regardless of the
consequences; and a malignant spirit or a specific intention
to hurt a particular person is not an essential element. Upon
that principle, we think a willful disregard of what one knows
to be his duty, an act which is against good morals and wrongful in and of itself, and which necessarily causes injury and is
done intentionally, may be said to be done willfully and maliciously, so as to come within the exception.
It is urged that the malice referred to in the exception is
malice towards the individual personally, such as is meant,
for instance, in a statute for maliciously injuring or destroying
property, or for malicious mischief, where mere intentional
injury without special malice towards the individual has been
held by some courts not to be sufficient. Commonwealth v.
Williams, 110 Massachusetts, 401.

OCTOBER TERf, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

We are not inclined to place such a narrow construction
upon the language of the exception. We do not think the
language used was intended to limit the exception in any such
way. It was an honest debtor and not a malicious wrongdoer
that was to be discharged.
Iowland v. Carson, 28 Ohio St. 625, is cited by plaintiff in
error. The question arose under the old bankruptcy act,
which provided (Rev. Stat. ยง 5117) that no debt created by
fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation
as a public officer, or while acting in a fiduciary character,
should be discharged by proceedings in bankruptcy, etc. It
was held in the case cited that a judgment for the seduction of
his daughter in favor of the father, where the seduction was
not induced or accomplished under a promise of marriage
fraudulently made for the purpose, was not a debt created
by fraud, within the meaning of the bankruptcy act. We do
not perceive the least similarity in the case to the one now
before the court, nor could we say that such a debt was one
created by fraud.
It is also argued that, as the fraud referred to in the exception is not one which the law implies, but is a particular fraud
involving moral turpitude or intentional wrongdoing, so the
malice referred to is not a malice implied in law but a positive
and special malice upon which the cause of action is founded,
and ,without proof of which the action could not be maintaine(.
It is true that the fraud mentioned in the bankruptcy statute
of 1867 has been held to be a fraud involving moral turpitude
or intentional wrong, and did not extend to a mere fraud implied by law. Hennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676, 681; Forsyth
v. Vehmeyer, 177 U. S. 177. The reason given was that. the
word was used in the statute in association with a debt created
by embezzlement, and such association was held to require the
conclusion that the fraud referred to meant positive fraud or
fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong,
and not a fraud which the law might imply and which might
exist without the imputation of bad faith or immorality.

TINIMER v. CO'LW]tLL.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Assuming that the same holding would be made in regard to the fraud mentioned in the present act, it is clear
that the cases are unlike. The implied fraud which the court
in the above cited cases released was of such a nature that
it did not impute either bad faith or immorality to the debtor,
while in a judgment founded upon a cause of action, such
as the one before us, the malice which is implied is of that
very kind which does involve moral turpitude. This case is
not, therefore, controlled in principle by the above cited
cases.
The People ex rel. &c. v. Greer, 43 Illinois, 213, is also cited.
The court there did hold that, under the Illinois insolvent law,
an insolvent debtor was discharged from a judgment obtained
by the father for the seduction of his daughter. The law
discharging the debt extended by its terms to all tort feasors
except where malice was the gist of the action, and the court
said malice was not the gist of the action in question. The
case is not opposed to the views we have already expressed.
It is not necessary in the construction we give to the language of the exception in the statute to hold that every willful
act which is wrong implies malice. One who negligently drives
through a crowded thoroughfare and negligently runs over an
individual would not, as we suppose, be within the exception.
True he drives negligently, and that is a wrongful act, but he
does not intentionally drive over the individual. If he intentionally did drive over him, it would certainly be malicious.
It might be conceded that the language of the exception could
be so construed as to make the exception refer only to those
injuries to person or property which were accompanied by
particular malice, or, in other words, a malevolent purpose
towards the injured person, and where the action could only
be maintained upon proof of the existence of such malice. But
we do not think the fair meaning of the statute would thereby
be carried out. The judgment here mentioned comes, as we
think, within the language of the statute reasonably construed. The injury for which it was recovered is one of the

