DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.

193 U. S.

127

Syllabus.

beneficiaries of the $300,000, but the disposition of that under
the treaty was to be in the United States, and only to be
used for freedmen who should remove from the territory.
None have removed. There is an intimation in the brief of
their counsel that in their memorials to Congress they expressed a willingness to remove, but Congress did not choose
and has not chosen to remove them; indeed, has provided for
the exact opposite-provided for the allotment of homes to
them out of the lands of the Indians and for payment to
the Indians therefor if it should be determined, in this suit,
that the freedmen were not, independently of that agreement, "entitled to allotments in Choctaw and Chickasaw
lands."
As we hold the freedmen were not so entitled, the decree of
the Court of Claims is
Afirmed.

DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 240. Argued December 1, 2, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

In a suit brought under ยง 25 of the act of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495, by the
Delaware Indians residing in the Cherokee Nation for the purpose of
determining their rights in and to the lands and funds of the Cherokee
Nation under their contract and agreement with the Cherokee Nation
of April 8, 1867.
Held that the registered Delawares acquired in the 157,000 acres set off
to them east of the ninety-sixth meridian only the right of occupancy
during life with a right upon allotment of the lands to not less than 160
acres together with their improvements, and their children and descendants took only the rights of other citizens of the Cherokee Nation as the
same are regulated by law.
Held that the Cherokee Nation has been recognized as a distinct political
community, Cherokee Fund Cases, 117 U. S. 288, having its own consti-

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

tution and laws and power to administer the same, and it was not the
purpose of the enabling act under which this suit was brought to revise
the political action of the administration of the Nation in admitting
persons to citizenship therein under authority of provisions of itsconstitution which were in force when the Delawares were consolidated with
the Cherokee Nation.
Held that the enabling act contemplated a judgment of the court, determining the rights of the Delawares and Cherokees in the lands and funds
of the Cherokee Nation, in such wise as to enable a division to be made
conformable to the rights of the parties as judicially determined.
Held that the bill should not be dismissed because the Delawares have not
proved their asserted claims but a decree should be entered finding the
registered Delawares entitled to participate equally with Cherokee citizens of Cherokee blood in the allotment of lands.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Walter S. Logan, with whom Mr. Charles l. Demout
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. John J. Hemphill and Air. William T. Hutchbifis for
eespondents.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

On June 28, 1898, the Congress of the United States passed
an act entitled "An act for the protection of the peol)le of the
Indian Territory and other purposes." 30 Stat. 495. By the
twenty-fifth section of the act it is provided:
"That before any allotment shall be made of lands in the
Cherokee Nation, there shall be segregated therefrom by the
commission heretofore mentioned, in separate allotments or
otherwise, the one hundred and fifty-seven thousand six hundred acres purchased by the Delaware tribe of Indians from
the Cherokee Nation under agreement of April eighth, eighteen
hundred and sixty-seven, subject to the judicial determination
of the rights of said descendants and the Cherokee Nation under
said agreement. That the Delaware Indians residing in the.
Cherokee Nation are hereby authorized and empowered to

DEIAWAIE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

129

Opinion of the Court.

bring suit in the Court of Claims of the United States, within
sixty days after the passage of this act, against the Cherokee
Nation, for the purpose of determining the rights of said Delaware Indians in and to the lands and funds of said nation under
their contract and agreement with the Cherokee Nation dated
April eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven; or the Cherokee
Nation may bring a like suit against said Delaware Indians;
and jurisdiction is conferred on said court to adjudicate and
fully determine the same, with right of appeal to either party
to the Supreme Court of the United States."
Under this section the present suit was prosecuted in the
Court of Claims by the Delaware Indians residing in the Cherokee Nation, as a tribe and individually, joined by certain others
suing for the surviving registered Delawares, their children,
descendants and personal representatives, against the Cherokee
Nation, for the purpose of determining the right of the Delaware
Indians "in and to the lands and funds of said nation" under
the contract and agreement with the Cherokee Nation dated
April 8, 1867. This contract sets forth:
"Now, therefore, it is agreed between the parties hereto,
subject to the approval of the President of the United States,
as follows:
"The Cherokees, parties of the first part, for and in consideration of certain payments and the fulfillment of certain conditions hereinafter mentioned, agree to sell to the Delawares for
their occupancy, a quantity of land east of the line of the 960
west longitude, in the aggregate equal to one hundred and
sixty acres for each individual of the Delaware tribe, who has
been enrolled upon a certain register made February 18, 1867,
by the Delaware agent, and on file in the Office of Indian Affairs,
being the list of Delawares who elect to remove to the 'Indian
country,' to which list may be added, only with the consent of
the Delaware council, the names of such other Delawares as
may, within one month after signing of this agreement, desire
to be added thereto, and the selections of the lands to be purchased by the Delawares may be made by said Delawares in
VOL. cxCni-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

any part of the Cherokee reservation east of said line 96' not
already selected and in possession of other parties, and in case
the Cherokee lands shall hereafter be allotted among the members of said nation, it is agreed that the aggegate amount of
land herein provided for the Delawares to include their improvements according to the legal subdivisions when surveys
are made (that is to say, one hundred and sixty acres for each
individual), shall be guaranteed to each Delaware incorporated
by these articles into the Cherokee Nation, nor shall the continued ownership and occupancy of said land by any Delaware
so registered be interfered with in any manner whatever without his consent, but shall be subject to the same conditions and
restrictions as are by the laws of the Cherokee Nation imposed
upon native citizens thereof.
"tProvided that nothing herein shall confer the right to
alienate, convey or dispose of any such lands except in accordance with the constitution and laws of said Cherokee Nation.
"And the said Delawares, parties of the second part, agree
that there shall be paid to the said Cherokees from the Delaware
funds now held or hereafter received by the United States, a
sum of money equal to one dollar per acre for the whole amount
of one hundred and sixty acres of land for every individual
Delaware who has already been registered upon the aforesaid
list, made February 18, 1867, with the additions thereto heretofore provided for.
"And the Secretary of the Interior is authorized and requested to sell any United States stocks belonging to the
Delawares to procure funds necessary to pay for said lands;
but in case he shall not feel authorized, under existing treaties,
to sell such bonds belonging to the Delawares, it is agreed that
he may transfer such United States bonds to the Cherokee
Nation, at their market value, at the date of such transfer.
"And the said Delawares further agree that there shall be
paid from their funds now or hereafter to come into possession
of the United States a sum of money which shall sustain the
same proportion to the existing Cherokee national fund that

DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

131

Opinion of the Court.

the number of Delawares registered as above mentioned and
removing to the Indian country sustains to the whole number
of Cherokees residing in the Cherokee Nation. And for the
purpose of ascertaining such relative numbers the registers of
the Delawares herein referred to, with such additions as may
be made within one month from the signing of this agreement,
shall be the basis of calculation as to the Delawares, and an
accurate census of the Cherokees residing in the Cherokee
Nation shall be taken under the laws of that nation within four
months, and properly certified copies thereof filed in the Office
of Indian Affairs, which shall be the basis of calculation as to
the Cherokees.
"And that there may be no doubt hereafter as to the amount
to be contributed to the Cherokee national fund by the Delawares, it is hereby agreed by the parties hereto that the whole
amount of the invested funds of the Cherokees, after deducting
all just claims thereon, is $678,000.
"And the Delawares further agree that in calculating the
total amount of said national fund there shall be added to the
said sum of $678,000 the sum of $1,000,000, being the estimated
value of the Cherokee neutral lands in Kansas, thus making
the whole Cherokee national fund $1,678,000; and this last
mentioned sum shall be taken as the basis for calculating the
amount which the Delawares are to pay into the common fund.
"Provided, that as the $678,000 of funds now on hand belonging to the Cherokees is chiefly composed of stocks of different values, the Secretary of the Interior may transfer from the
Delawares to the Cherokees a proper proportion of the stocks
now owned by the Delawares of like grade and value, which
transfer shall be in part of the pro rata contribution herein
provided for by the Delawares to the funds of the Cherokee
Nation; but the balance of the pro rata contribution by the
Delawares to said fund shall be in cash or United States bonds,
at their market value.
"All cash, and all proceeds of stocks, whenever the same
may fall due or be sold, rcceived by the Cherokees from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

Delawares under the agreement, shall be invested and applied
in accordance with the twenty-third article of the treaty with
the Cherokees of August 11, 1866.
"On the fulfillment by the Delawares of the foregoing stipulations, all the members of the tribe registered as above provided, shall become members of the Cherokee Nation, with the
same rights and immunities, and the same participation (and
no other) in the national funds, as native Cherokees, save as
hereinbefore provided.
"And the children hereinafter born of such Delawares so
incorporated into the Cherokee Nation shall, in all respects, be
regarded as native Cherokees."
The treaties which led up to this agreement are referred to in
the contract and were ratified in 1866. The fifteenth article
of the treaty of August 11,1866, between the United States and
the Cherokee Nation provided:
"Article XV. The United States may settle any civilized
Indians, friendly with the Cherokees and adjacent tribes, wiihin
the Cherokee country, on unoccupied lands east of 96 (legrees,
on such terms as may be agreed upon by any such tribe and
the Cherokees, subject to the approval of the President of the
United States, which shall be consistent with the following
provisions, viz: Should any such tribe or band of Indians
settling in said country abandon their tribal organization,
there being first paid into the Cherokee national fund a sumn
of money which shall sustain the same proportion to the then
existing national fund that the number of Indians sustain to
the whole number of Cherokees then residing in the Cherokee
country, they shall be incorporated into and ever after remain
a part of, the Cherokee Nation, on equal terms in every respect
with native citizens. And should any such tribe, thus settling
in said country, decide to preserve their tribal organizations,
and to maintain their tribal laws, customs, and usages, not
inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the Cherokee
Nation, they shall have a district of country set off for their
use by metes and bounds equal to one hundred and sixty acres,

DELAWARE INDIANS r. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

133

Opinion of the Court.

if they should so decide, for each man, woman, and child of
said tribe, and shall pay for the same into the national fund
such price as may be agreed on by them and the Cherokee
Nation, subject to the approval of the President of the United
States, and in cases of disagreement the price to be fixed by
the President.
"And the said tribe thus settled shall also pay into the national fund a sum of money, to be agreed on by the respective
parties, not greater in proportion to the whole existing national
fund and the probable proceeds of the lands herein ceded or
authorized to be ceded or sold than their numbers bear to the
whole number of Cherokees then residing in said country, and
thence afterwards they shall enjoy all the rights of native
Cherokees. But no Indians who have no tribal organizations,
or shall determine to abandon their tribal organizations, shall
be permitted to settle east of the ninety-sixth degree of longitude without the consent of the Cherokee national council, or
of a delegation duly appointed by it, being first obtained.
And no Indians who have and determine to preserve their tribal
organizations shall be permitted to settle, as herein provided,
east of the ninety-sixth degree of longitude without such consent being first obtained, unless the President of the United
States, after a full'hearing of the objections offered by said
council or delegation to such settlement, shall determine that
the objections are insufficient, in which case he may authorize
the settlement of such tribe east of the ninety-sixth degree of
longitude."
Article IV of the Delaware treaty, referred to in the agreement of April 8, 1867, is in the following terms:
"Article IV. The United States agree to sell to the said
Delaware Indians a tract of land ceded to the government by
the Choctaws and Chickasaws, the Creeks, or the Seminoles,
or which may be ceded by the Cherokees in the Indian country,
to be selected by the Delawares in one body in as compact a
form as practicable, so as to contain timber, water, and agricultural lands, to contain in the aggregate, if the said Delaware

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

Indians shall so desire, a quantity equal to one hundred and
sixty (160) acres for each man, woman, and child who shall
remove to said country, at the price per acre paid by the United
States for the said lands, to be paid for by the Delawares out
of the proceeds of sales of land in Kansas, heretofore provided
for. The said tract of country shall be set off with clearly and
permanently marked boundaries by the United States; and
also surveyed as public lands are surveyed, when the Delaware
council shall so request, when the same may, in whole or in
part, be allotted by said council to each member of said tribe
residing in said country, said allotment being subject to the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
At the time of moving upon these lands there were 985
registered Delawares, of whom 212 survived at the beginning
of this suit, together with children and descendants of those
deceased.
The agreement of April 8, 1867, was before this court in the
case of the Cherokee Nationi v. Jourmeycal.'e, 155 U. S. 196.
*While the precise questions involved in the present controversy
were not then before the court, the rights adjudicated turned
upon the construction of the agreement of April 8, 1867, and
its nature and the history of the events which led up to its
execution by the parties thereto were the subjects of consideration and determination by this court. In that case it was held
that under the agreement the registered Delawares were incorporated into the Cherokee Nation, and as members and
citizens thereof were entitled to participate in the proceeds of
the sale of a portion of the Cherokee lands upon equal terms
with native Cherokee citizens. The claim is made that the
contract of 1867 secured to the registered Delawares individually, or to the Delawares as a tribe, the 157,000 acres of land
which were to be set off to them east of the ninety-sixth
meridian. This agreement was made and entered into in
pursuance of the treaty stipulations hereinbefore referred to.
And while it may be regarded as arising from these preliminary
treaties with the United States, the care with which it was

DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

135

Opinion of the Court.

made and the evident intention of the parties to deal at arm's
length with full knowledge of their respective rights and aims,
leaves little to be gained from these preliminary treaties as an
aid to construction, except as a means of placing ourselves in
the situation of the parties when the contract was signed and
delivered. It is the claim in behalf of the Delawares that if
not technically an estate in fee, one was conveyed permanent
in its character and transmissible by descent to the children
and kin of the registered Delawares, or at least it was a holding
which should endure so long as the Delawares and their descendants continued to exist as a tribe.
It was held in the Journeycake case to be the purpose of this
agreement to incorporate the registered Delawares into the
Cherokee Nation, with full participation in the political and
property rights of citizens of that nation. As a part of the
general agreement, provision is made for rights in certain lands
as a home for the Delawares who are to remove from their
Kansas lands to the Indian Territory. These lands are to pass
to registered Delawares and they are to have the privilege of
selecting them from unoccupied lands east of the line 96 degrees west longitude. This right is conferred not upon the
Delaware Nation, but upon certain registered Delawares who
are to be incorporated into the Cherokee Nation. To such is
given a quantity of land equal in the aggregate to 160 acres
for each registered Delaware, whose name is required to be
entered upon a register to be filed in the Office of Indian Affairs,
the lands thus conveyed being distinctly declared to be sold to
the Delawares "for their occupancy." This limitation, in
what may be characterized as the habendum clause of the conveyance, does not import a holding beyond the life of the first
taker, and is entirely inconsistent with the idea of permanency
of tenure in the estate conveyed unless there is something in
the nature of Indian titles to lands or in the terms of the instrument which requires an enlargement of an estate fcr occupancy
into one the equivalent of a fee. It is argued that an estate
of occupancy is the ordinary estate of the Indian tribes and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

embraces all the title held by them, the fee remaining in the
United States. There is nothing to prevent the United States
if it chooses to convey a fee to the Indian tribes from so doing.
Indeed, in the sixteenth clause of the treaty with the Cherokee Nation of August, 1866, it is provided that a fee may be
conveyed to friendly Indians settled west of the ninety-sixth
meridian. But for the present purpose, it is unneces.-ary to
speculate as to the nature of the Indian title derived from the
United States by treaty. The nature and extent of the Cherokee title has been settled by previous adjudications of this court.
In the case of Cherokee Triist Fuds, 117 U. S. 288, 308, it was
held that the lands in the Cherokee Nation belonged to them
as a political body, and not to its individual members, and
speaking of the rights of individual Cherokees it was said: "lie
had a right to use parcels of the lands thus held by the nation,
subject to such rules as its governing authority might prescribe."
The lands of the Cherokee Nation are not held in individual
ownership, but are public lands, though held for the equal
benefit of all the members. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174
U. S. 445, 488; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S.294.
Under the patent issued to the Cherokees for their lands, whatever title conveyed was to the Cherokees as a nation, and no
title was vested in severalty in any of the Cherokees. Cherokee
Nation v. Journeycake, 155 U. S.196, 207.
In an agreement incorporating certain Delawares into the
Cherokee Nation it is important to consider under what terms
and conditions its citizens held and used the lands occupied
by them. We are here dealing with the extent of the title conveyed as between Indian tribes, and the question is what did
the Cherokees convey in the agreement to the Delawares who
came within the terms of the compact and who were to be
incorporated into the Cherokee Nation. In addition to the
limitations expressed in the conveyance, "for occupancy," we
find other terms of the instrument inconsistent with the grant
of a perpetual estate. It is provided that in case the Cherokee

DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

137

Opinion of the Court.

lands shall hereafter be allotted among the members of said
nation, the aggregate amount of land provided for the Delawares to include their improvements according to the legal
subdivisions when surveys are made (that is to say, one hundred and sixty acres for each individual), shall be guaranteed
to each Delaware incorporated by the articles into the Cherokee
Nation. The lands which are for occupancy of the Delawares
are described as "Cherokee lands," and a provision made which
secures 160 acres to include their improvements to each registered Delaware in case of allotment. If the full title was intended to be transferred to the Delawares, either as a tribe or
individually, this stipulation to secure the rights of the Delawares in the contingency named was entirely superfluous.
Further, the contract reads: "Nor shall the ownership and
occupancy of said lands by any Delawares so registered be
interfered with in any manner whatsoever without his consent,
but shall be subject to the same conditions and'restrictions as
are by the laws of the Cherokee Nation imposed upon the native
citizens thereof. Provided, that nothing herein shall confer
the right to alienate, convey or dispose of any such land except
in accordance with the constitution and laws of said Cherokee
Nation."
These stipulations, wholly inconsistent with the full title of
the Delawares to the lands in question, must be read in the
light of the constitution and laws of the Cherokee Nation as
to the holding of land by Cherokee citizens.
The provisions of the Cherokee constitution and the statutes
passed in pursuance thereof pertinent to the subject are collected in the opinion of the Court of Claims in the Journeycake
case, and are cited in a note to the opinion of this court in the
same case. 155 U. S. 196, 207. From them it is apparent
that lands to be held upon the same terms as the Cherokees
hold their lands cannot be alienated by those who occupy and
hold them, but the ownership is lodged in the Cherokee Nation.
The individual has no right to alienate or lease the lands. The
nation grants and restricts the right of occupancy. The title

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

to the lands is vested in the government, to be held and controlled in such wise as to promote the general welfare. Under
these restrictions and conditions the registered Delawares held
the lands set apart for their occupancy. In the laws of the
Cherokee Nation we find that the use of the terms "for use an(!
occupancy" was not an unfamiliar form of expression in de-

scribing the character and limitation upon the right of private
ownership. Thus in the act relating to the public domain,
and reserving tracts of lands one mile square along railroads
at stations, and providing for the sale of town lots, it is provided that the purchaser shall acquire no other rights than
those of use and occupancy. If the lands in question were
granted in perpetuity to the Delawares, we have the awarding
of an estate of this character carved out of lands recognized in
the agreement as continuing to be Cherokee lands, belonging
to the nation which expressly limits the conveyance of its lands
to its own citizens for use and occupancy only. Again, if it,
was intended to provide for the children or heirs of the first
takers-the registered Delawares-we should expect to find
some words in the agreement competent for that purpose,
conceding that the technical terms of the common law to create
an estate in fee need not have been used. As to the children
of the registered Delawares we find this specific provision:
"And the children hereafter born of such Delawares so incorporated into the Cherokee Nation shall in all respects be regarded as native Cherokees." This provision is utterly inconsistent with the grant of an estate in the lands to survive the
"occupancy" of the registered Delawares. Such children are
to have the rights of native Cherokees and no more. Their
parents were incorporated into the Cherokee Nation with certain specific rights; the children were to stand upon an equality
with their adopted brethren of the Cherokee blood.
The importance of the issue now distinctly made as to the
title to these lands has led us to give renewed examination to
the question of the extent and character of the interest conveyed to the Delawares, in the lands in controversy. In the

DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

139

Opinion of the Court.

Journeycake case, while it is true that the precise question was
not the same as is now presented, full consideration to all the
terms of this contract was given in order to determine the
interests of the Delawares in the Cherokee lands sold, and the
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Brewer, used this pertinent
language, the force of which has not been diminished in the
light of subsequent examination aided by the arguments and
briefs of counsel now presented: "So far as the provision in
the agreement for the purchase of homes is concerned, it will
be perceived that no absolute title to these homes was granted.
We may take notice of the fact that the Cherokees in their long
occupation of this reservation had generally secured homes for
themselves; that the laws of the Cherokee Nation provided for
the appropriation by the several Cherokees of lands for personal
occupation, and that this purchase by the Delawares was with
the view of securing to the individual Delawares the like homes;
that the lands thus purchased and paid for still remain a part
of the Cherokee reservation. And as a further consideration
for the payment of this sum for the purchase of homes the
Delawares were guaranteed not merely the continued occupancy thereof, but also that in case of a subsequent allotment
in severalty of the entire body of lands among the members
of the Cherokee Nation, they should receive an aggregate
amount equal to that which they had purchased, and such a
distribution as would secure to them the homes upon which
they had settled, together with their improvements. So that
if, when the allotment was made, there was for any reason not
land enough to secure to each member of the Cherokee Nation
160 acres, the Delawares were to have at least that amount,
and the deficiency would have to be borne by the native Cherokees pro rata. In other words, there was no purchase of a
distinct body of lands, as in the case of the settlement of other
tribes as tribes within the limits of the Cherokee reservation.
The individual Delawares took their homes in and remaining
in the Cherokee reservation, and as lands to be considered in
any subsequent allotment in severalty among the members of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Cherokee Nation. All this was in the line of the expressed
thought of a consolidation of these Delawares with and the
absorption of them into the Cherokee Nation as individual
members thereof. If it be said that all of the Delaware trust
funds were not turned into the national fund it will be remembered that there was no impropriety in the reservation of a
part thereof in order to enable the Delawares to make such
improvements as they might desire on the tracts that they
selected for homes, and also that there was no certainty that
all the members of the Delaware tribe would elect to remove
to the Cherokee country, and that those who remained in Kansas were entitled to their share in the Delaware national funds."
If such be the true construction of the agreement, it is nevertheless insisted that it should not be literally enforced in view
of the understanding of the parties, more particularly of the
Delawares, that they were thereby receiving full title to the
occupied lands. To establish this contention it is claimed that
in view of the character of the contracting parties they shoulil
not be held to the strict rule of evidence which denies the con.petency of parol testimony to contradict written agreements,
and a class of cases is cited of which Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet.
515, may be taken as an example. The language of Mr. Justice McLean is quoted, in which he said (p. 582):
"The language used in treaties with the indians should never
be construed to their prejudice. If words be made use of
which are susceptible of a more extended meaning than their
plain import, as connected with the tenor of the treaty, they
should be considered as used in the latter sense.

.

.

.

How

the words of the treaty were understood by this unlettered
people, rather than their critical meaning, should form the rule
of construction."
But the learned Justice was here dealing with a treaty negotiated between the representatives of the United States and

those of the Indians, wherein the disparity of the contracting
parties in education and knowledge of law and the use of language is obvious.

DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

141

Opinion of the Court.

The ontract of April 7, 1867, was negotiated between representatives of Indian nations meeting upon equal terms. In
the testimony of John G. Pratt, called for the Delawares, and
at one time Indian agent for the Delaware agency, it appears:
"Question. Do you know whether or not the agreement
frequently referred to in your testimony was read over to the
two delegations representing the Delawares and Cherokee tribes
of Indians?
"Answer. It was read over repeatedly; read over and corrected and altered and read over again several times, and each
party put in his suggestions, until they finally harmonized.
"Question. Then, as I understand, the agreement, as finally
signed, expressed the wishes of both sides, and both sides were
fully satisfied with all it contained?
"Answer. No; the Delawares were not satisfied, but they
signed because it was the best they could do. They wanted
to own the land outright.
"Question. They did not contend at any time afterwards
that the agreement did not fully express what they intended
to express, did they?
"Answer. No, sir; I did not hear anything of that kind."

We can perceive no room in this case for a departure from
the familiar rules of the law protecting written agreements
from the uncertainties of parol testimony. The testimony
offered was in the main that of interested persons nearly thirty
years after the agreement had been reduced to writing and
signed by the parties thereto. Nor can we find a latent ambiguity in the terms of the contract which requires the admission of parol testimony to explain its effect. In the light
of the circumstances and the language used in the writing, its
construction is not rendered difficult because of latent ambiguities. It is claimed as a cogent circumstance, which
should be considered in construing this agreement, that the
Cherokee Nation received one dollar per acre for these lands
-a sum sufficient to cover their full value, and of consequent
importance in determining the character of the estate con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

veyed. In the Journeycake case it was held that, in coiisideration of the sum paid for citizenship rights, the Delawares
obtained an interest in the lands of the Cherokee Nation, although the same were not considered in making up the sum
paid for what has been denominated the right of citizenship.
In that case it is pointed out that at the time the agreement
under consideration was made the Cherokee Nation possessed,
in addition to the "neutral" lands in Kansas, which were
estimated at $1,000,000 in making up the total of the Cherokee
national fund of $1,678,000 upon the basis of which the Delawares paid into the common fund"Strip" lands in Kansas (about) ............
400,000 acres.
Lands west of 96 degrees, Indian Territory,
(about) .............................
8,000,000 "
Lands east of 96 degrees, Indian Territory
Home reservation (about) ............ 5,000,000 "
In that case it was held that the Delawares acquired a right
in the distribution of the proceeds, not only of the Kansas
lands, but as well in such sales as were made of this vast (1omain held by the Cherokee Nation. Of this feature of the
agreement Mr. Justice Brewer, in the Journeycake case, says:
"Neither should too much weight be given to the fact that, the
Delawares were to pay for their homes at the rate of one dollar
an acre, for by that purchase they acquired no title in fee
simple, and it is not unreasonable to believe that, the price Ihus
fixed was not merely as compensation for the value of the
lands, (to be taken in the eastern portion of the reservation,
where the body of the Cherokees had their homes, and therefore probably the most valuable portion of the entire reservation,) but also as sufficient compensation for an interest in the
entire body of lands, that interest being like that of the native
Cherokees, limited to a mere occupancy of the tracts set, apart
for homes, with the right to free use in common of the unoccupied portion of the reserve, and the right to share in any
future allotment."

DELAWARE INDIANS u. CHEROKEE NATION.

193 U. S.

143

Opinion of the Court.

We conclude, then, that the registered Delawares acquired
in these lands only the right of occupancy during. life, with a
right upon allotment of the lands, to not less than 160 acres
together with their improvements, and the children and descendants of such Delawares took only the rights of other
citizens of the Cherokee Nation as the same are regulated by
its laws.
The bill further seeks to exclude from the allotment of
Cherokee lands and funds certain citizens alleged to have been
illegally admitted to citizenship, thereby wrongfully diminishing the shares of the Delawares in the common property. At
the time of the agreement of April 7, 1867, the constitution,
sees. 2 and 5, of the Cherokee Nation had been amended to
read:
"SEc. 2. The lands of the Cherokee Nation shall remain
common property until the national council shall request the
survey and allotment of the same, in accordance with the
provisions of article 20th of the treaty of 19th July, 1866,
between the United States and the Cherokee Nation.
"SEc. 5. No person shall be eligible to a seat in the national
council but a male citizen of the Cherokee Nation, who shall
have attained to the age of twenty-five years, and who shall
have been a bona fide resident of the district in which he may
be elected at least six months immediately preceding such
election. All native-born Cherokees, all Indians, and whites
legally members of the nation by adoption, and all freedmen
who have been liberated by voluntary act of their former
owners or by law, as well as freed colored persons who were
in the country at the commencement of the rebellion, and are
now residents therein, or who may return within six months
from the 19th day of July, 1866, and their descendants who
reside within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, shall be taken
and deemed to be citizens of the Cherokee Nation."
These constitutional provisions were in full force when the
Delawares acquired their rights and when they were incorporated, or, as the agreement expressed it, "consolidated," with

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

the Cherokee Nation. Under its terms the Delawares have
participated in political rights and have taken part in the
government of the nation. It is claimed that these amendments were illegally adopted for want of compliance with authorized methods for amending the national constitution.
But the nation has never undertaken to set them aside or call
in question their force and effect. They were in the fundamental law when the Delawares were made a part of the
Cherokee Nation and the rights exercised were only those
belonging to the nation when the Delawares saw fit to subject
themselves to the laws of a new nation of which they were to
become a component part upon equal terms with other citizens.
The Cherokee Nation has many of the rights and privileges of
an independent people. They have their own constitution
and laws and power to administer their internal affairs. They
are recognized as a distinct political community and treaties
have been made with them in that character. Cherokee Truist
Fund Cases, 117 U. S. 288. It is not reasonable to suppose
that in the act under which these proceedings were brought it.
was intended to authorize inquiry into the adiministration of
the political affairs of the Cherokee Nation with a view to
setting aside the adoption of constitutional amendments and
the revision of political action in admitting persons to citizenship in the nation under authority of its constitution. The
same conclusion disposes of the contention of the appellants
that relief can be granted in this case in respect to alleged
maladministration of the financial affairs of the Cherokee
Nation with a view to holding it to account in favor of the
Dela'wares prosecuting this suit. We are authorized by the
enabling act to determine the contractual rights of the Delawares in the national lands and funds, not to overhaul the
political and administrative action of the Cherokee Nation.
The act authorizing this suit contemplates a determination
of the rights and interest of the Delawares residing in the
Cherokee Nation in the lands and funds of the Cherokee Nation
under the compact of April, 1867. That it was the purpose

DELAWARE INDIANS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
193 U. S.

145

Opinion of the Court.

of Congress to have a full and final determination of such rights
is further shown in the Cherokee allotment act of July 1, 1902.
Section 23 of this act provides:
"SEc. 23. All Delaware Indians who are members of the
Cherokee Nation shall take lands and share in the funds of the
tribe, as their rights may be determined by the judgment of
the Court of Claims, or by the Supreme Court if appealed, in
the suit instituted therein by the Delawares against the Cherokee Nation, and now pending; but if said suit be not determined before said commission is ready to begin the allotment
of lands of the tribe as herein provided, the commission shall
cause to be segregated one hundred and fifty-seven thousand
six hundred acres of land, including lands which have been
selected and occupied by Delawares in conformity to the
provisions of their agreement with the Cherokees dated April
eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, such lands so to
remain, subject to disposition according to such judgment as
may be rendered in said cause; and said commission shall
thereupon proceed to the allotment of the remaining lands of
the tribe as aforesaid. Said commission shall, when final
judgment is rendered, allot lands to such Delawares in conformity to the terms of the judgment and their individual
rights thereunder. Nothing in this act shall in any manner
impair the rights of either party to said contract as the same
may be finally determined by the court, or shall interfere with
the holdings of the Delawares under their contract with the
Cherokees of April eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven,
until their rights under said contract are determined by the
courts in their suit now pending against the Cherokees, and
said suit shall be advanced on the dockets of said courts and
determined at the earliest time practicable."
These acts contemplate a judgment of the court which shall
determine the rights of the Delawares and Cherokees in the
lands and funds of the Cherokee Nation in such wise as to
enable a division to be made conformable to the rights of the
parties as judicially determined. The Court of Claims renVOL. cxcIII-l0

