OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 IT. S.

GLOUCESTER WATER SUPPLY COMPANY v. CITY OF
GLOUCESTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OP MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 183. Argued March 16, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.

Dismissed for want of jurisdiction on the authority of the preceding case.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

iMfr. Lauriston L. Scaije and Mr. Robert il: Morsc, for
appellant.
111r. Albert E. Pillsbury, with whom Mr. George H. O'Conncll
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the main, this case is like that of Newburyport Water
Company v. Newburyport, just decided.
The Gloucester Water Company was engaged in supplying
the city of Gloucester and its inhabitants with water under a
non-exclusive charter and a non-exclusive hydrant contract
made with the city. Under the authority of a statute enacted
in 1895, similar in tenor to the act of 1894 considered in the
Newburyport case, the Gloucester company sold its plant. to
the city of Gloucester. After the sale the company petitioned
for the appointment of commissioners to value the property.
Objections were made by both parties to the award, and the
objections were reserved for consideration to the full bench of
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. That court accepted the award for the sum of S576,544 with interest. 179
Massachusetts, 365. Thereafter the pfesent suit in equity was

THIRD NAT. BANK v. BUFFALO GERMAN INS. CO. 581
193 U. S.

Syllabus.

instituted in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, the bill filed containing substantially
similar allegations to those made in the Newburyport case.
Similar relief was also sought, except that there was no claim
that the commissioners had not made an allowance for the
unexpired term of the hydrant contract. After the decision
in the Newburyport case the Circuit Court sustained a demurrer
and dismissed the bill on the merits.
For the reasons stated in the opinion delivered in the Newburyport case, the decree of the Circuit Court is reversed at
appellant's costs, and the case remanded, with instructions to
dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.

THIRD NATIONAL BANK OF BUFFALO v. BUFFALO
GERMAN INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 146. Argued January 27, 28, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.
The mere statement by a borrower from a national bank, made to the
president when the loan is obtained, that his stock in the bank is security
for the loan, there being no delivery of the certificates, does not amount
to a pledge of the stock, nor does it give the bank any lien thereon as
against one subsequently loaning on the stock in good faith and receiving
the certificates as collateral.
The provisions of section 36 of the National Banking Act of 1863, empowering the withholding of transfer of the stock of a shareholder indebted to the bank, were not only omitted from the National Banking
Act of 1864 but were expressly repealed thereby.
A provision in the charter and by-laws, and a condition in a certificate of
stock, of a national bank, forbidding the transfer of stock where the
stockholder is indebted to the bank, is void as repugnant to the National
Banking Act and in conflict with the public policy embodied in that act,
and creates no lien which the bank can enforce by refusing to transfer the
stock to a holder for value in good faith.
A condition in a certificate of stock of a national bank which is void under

