OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

grams in question present an application of what is stated in
the opinion in the Coruin case (p. 385) to be "the well-established rule that official reports and certificates made contemporaneously with the facts stated, and in the regular course
of official duty, by an officer having personal knowledge of
them, are admissible for the purpose of proving such facts."
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed; the
judgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and the cause
is remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

PLATT v. WILMOT.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 167. Argued MIareh 2,1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.

The provisions of § 394 of the New York Code of Civil Procedure limiting
the time within which an action may be brought against a director or
stockholder of a moneyed corporation or banking association to recover
a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created, by the
common law or by statute, extends to actions against directors and
stockholders of foreign corporations.
Whether a foreign corporation is or is not a moneyed corporation within
the meaning of § 394 of the New York Code of Civil Procedure will be
determined for the purpose of construing the New York statute of limitations by reference to the meaning given to the term by the legislature and
courts of New York rather than of the State under whose laws the corporation is organized.
Although the double liability of a stockholder of a moneyed corporation
may be contractual in its nature if it is statutory in origin it is a liability
created by statute within the meaning of § 394 of the New York Code
of Civil Procedure.
PLAINTIFF in error brings the case here to review the judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the

PLATT v. WILMOT.
193 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Second Circuit, which affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of New York, dismissing the
plaintiff's complaint upon the merits. The action was commenced in the last named court by the service of a summons
on the defendant on October 1, 1898, and was brought by the
plaintiff as receiver of the Commercial National Bank of Denver, Colorado, to recover from the defendant the double liability
imposed upon him as stockholder in the Western Farm Mortgage Trust Company of Lawrence, Kansas, hereinafter called
the trust company.
The defendant answered the complaint and, among other
things, set up the defence of the three years' statute of limitations of the State of New York.
The action was tried in the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of New York without a jury, and findings of fact were
made by the court upon which the conclusion of law was based
that the plaintiff's cause of action was barred by section 394
of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of New York, being
the three years' statute of limitations, and that his complaint
should therefore be dismissed with costs.
The court found that the bank of which plaintiff was subsequently appointed receiver had commenced an action against
the trust company, and on June 3, 1893, had recovered a personal judgment against it for the sum of $4,930.72, with interest
thereon from the date of the recovery of the judgment. Execution had been issued upon said judgment on August 29,
1894, and returned unsatisfied on September 7, 1894.
At the time of the rendition of the judgment and the return
of the execution unsatisfied, the defendant was the holder of
and has continued since that time to hold twenty shares of
the capital stock of the trust company.
By the terms of its articles of association the corporate
powers of the trust company were, among others, as follows:
"ARTICLE II. The purposes for which it is formed are to
receive deposits of money, bonds and securities; to loan money
on real estate and personal security; to negotiate loans on real

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

estate and other securities; to purchase and sell bonds and
notes secured by mortgages and deeds of trusts on real estate;
to purchase and sell municipal bonds and the bonds, assets and
franchises and securities of other corporations; to issue and sell
its debentures and secure the same by pledge of notes, bonds
and other securities, real or personal; to guarantee the payment of principal and interest of loans by it negotiated or niade
and sold; to act as financial agent of any State, municipality,
corporation, association, company or person; to purchase, hold,
sell and convey such real estate and personal property as it
may require for its use; to purchase, hold, sell and convey such
real estate and personal property as may be necessary for the
security or collection of claims due or owing it; to accept and
execute any trust committed to it by any municipality, corporation, association, company, person or other authority."
Judgment dismissing the complaint having been entered, the
plaintiff by virtue of a writ of error obtained a review of the
judgment by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, where it was affirmed, without any opinion, upon the
authority, as stated in a memorandum by the court, of the case
of Hobbs v. National Bank of Commerce, 96 Fed. Rep. 396.
The constitution and statutes of Kansas provide for the
individual liability of the stockholders in a corporation -to an
additional amount equal to the stock owned by each stockholder, but the provision does not apply to a railroad corporation, nor to corporations for religious or charitable purposes.
Mr. Omar Powell, with whom Mr. Elijah Robinson was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
An examination of the origin and history, and of the phraseology of the enactment will clearly demonstrate that the provisions of § 394 of the New York Code apply only to actions
against directors and stockholders of corporations and associations organized under the laws of that State, and hence are
not applicable to this action. See Title II, ch. 18, Rev. Stat.
N. Y. of 1827; Art. I, ch. 4, part 3, Rev. Stat. § 44; Suther-

PLATT v.5 WILMOT.
193 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

land on Statutory Construction, § 255; § 89, ch. 4, Laws of
1848; § 109 of the Code. And see amendment of 1877 in
which form it was enacted as § 394 of the Code. See also ch.
260, Laws of 1838; Robinson v. Bank, 21 N. Y. 406; ch. 226,
308, Laws of 1849; Bostwick v. Brinkerhof, 99 N. Y. 185.
By no recognized rule of construction can there be attributed
to the legislature an intention to make this section embrace
actions against the directors and stockholders of foreign corporations. Endlich on Interpretation of Statutes, § 113;
United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 390.
Where words have been adopted by the legislature as having
a certain definite meaning prior to a particular statute in which
they are used, they must be construed in such statute according to the sense in which they have been theretofore used.
Sutherland on Stat. Const. § 255; The Abbottsford, 98 U. S. 440;
County Seat of Linn County, 15 Kansas, 379; United States v.
Freight Assn., 58 Fed. Rep. 58.
Even if the provisions of § 394 extend to actions against
directors and stockholders of foreign corporations, of the class
in said section designated, still it does not apply to the case at
bar, because the Western Farm Mortgage Trust Company is
neither a "moneyed corporation" nor a "banking association." See the New York Corporation Law, ch. 563, Laws of
1890; White on Corporations, ed. of 1902, p. 4.
This definition of moneyed corporations in the Revised
Statutes continued down to 1892, ch. 687, Laws of 1892, when
the phraseology was changed, and this term was defined to
mean "a corporation formed under or subject to the banking
or insurance law." This change of phraseology did not change
the meaning of the law. It was not intended to effect a change.
This amendment was in the nature of a revision, and in such
case it will be presumed that the legislature did not intend to
change the law, unless the language employed is such as to
clearly indicate such intention. Dominick v. Michael, 4 Sand.
374; Douglas v. Douglas, 5 Hun, 140; Crosswell v. Crane, 7
Barb. 191; Taylor v. Delancey, 2 Cain's Cases in Error, 143, 151.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

Even if the provisions of § 394 are applicable to foreign
corporations, and the Western Farm Mortgage Trust Company was a moneyed corporation, within the meaning of that
term as used in said section, still plaintiff's action would not
be barred by said section, because defendant's liability, which
plaintiff is seeking to enforce, was created by contract, and
therefore is governed by § 382. 2 Morawitz on Corp. §§ 870,
873; Cook on Stockholders, 3d ed. 303; Hawthornv. California,
2 Wall. 10; Carrollv. Green, 92 U. S. 509; Flash v. Connecticut,
109 U. S. 371; Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27; Bank v. Hattkins, 174 U. S. 364; Whitman v. Bank, 176 U. S. 559; Howcll
v. Manglesdorf, 33 Kansas, 194; Plumb v. Bank, 48 Kansas,
484; Achenbach v. Coal Co., 2 Kan. App. 357; Corning v. McCollough, 1 N. Y. 47; Wiles v. Sitydan, 64 N. Y. 73; Conant v.
Van Schaick, 24 Barb. 87; Norris v. Wrenchell, 34 Maryland,
492; Terry v. Colman, 13 S. Car. 220.
And even if the provisions of § 394 apply to corporations of
other States as well as those organized under the laws of New
York, and the Western Farm Mortgage Trust Company was
a moneyed corporation, within the meaning of that term,
as used in said section, and plaintiff's action is not based on
contract, still said section does not apply to this action, because the defendant's liability was created neither by the
common law nor by any statute.
If defendant's liability was not created by his contract in
becoming a stockholder in the corporation, then it was created
by the provisions of the constitution of the State of Kansas.
Whitman v. Bank, 176 U. S. 559.
A liability created by a constitutional provision (loes not
come within the provisions of said section 394. Clark v. lVatcr
Commissioners, 148 N. Y. 1.
There was no appearance on brief for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The only question which the plaintiff in error presents is

PLAr'F v. WILMOT.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whether or not this action was barred by the New York three
years' statute of limitations, and that depends upon whether
section 382 or section 394 of the Code of Civil Procedure of that
State is applicable.
Section 382 provides that actions of the following nature
shall be barred within six years:
"1. An action upon a contract obligation or liability, express
or implied; except a judgment or sealed instrument.
"2. An action to recover upon a liability created by statute;
except a penalty or forfeiture."
Section 394, which the courts below have made applicable to
plaintiff's cause of action, reads as follows:
"SEC. 394. This chapter does not affect an action against a

director or stockholder of a moneyed corporation, or banking
association, to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to
enforce a liability created by the common law or by statute;
but such an action must be brought within three years after
the cause of action has accrued."
Several objections are made by the plaintiff in error to the
application of section 394 to this case. They are (1) that the
section does not apply to a director or stockholder of a foreign
corporation; (2) that if it be held that it does extend to actions
against directors and stockholders of foreign corporations of
the class designated in the section, yet it does not apply to this
case, because the trust company is neither a moneyed corporation nor a banking association; (3) that the stockholders'
liability in this case is one based upon contract, and is not
created either by the common law or by statute.
Taking up these objections in their order, we are brought to a
consideration of the one which asserts that section 394 does not
apply to directors or stockholders of foreign corporations. We
think it does.
A history of the legislation upon this subject in the State of
New York, which finally resulted in section 394 of the Civil
Code, is given in the opinion in Hobbs v. National Bank of
Commerce, 96 Fed. Rep. 396, by Judge Shipman, and it is also

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 IT. S.

referred to by Judge Earl, in Brinckerhoff v. Boslnqck, 99

N. Y. 185.
The section as originally enacted was section 44, part 3,
chap. 4, title 2, of the Revised Statutes, which chapter related
to "Actions, and the Times of commencing them." These
statutes took effect (as to the greater part) in 1830. The
section in question then read as follows:
"None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to suits
against directors or stockholders of any monied corporations,
to recover any penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce any
liability created, by the second title of the eighteenth chapter
of the first part of the Revised Statutes; but all such suits shall
be brought within six years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which such penalty or forfeiture attached, or by which such liability was created."
Upon the adoption of the Code of Procedure of 1848 the
section became section 89 of that code. The second title of
the first part of the Revised Statutes, referred to in the section, among other things, imposed liabilities upon the directors
and stockholders of the moneyed corporations authorized by
that title. If the statute of limitations above quoted had not
been amended, it would have been limited to the liabilities
mentioned in such title, and would not have included a case
like this.
In 1849 section 89 of the Code of Procedure of 1848 became
section 109, and read as follows:
"This title shall not affect actions against directors or stockholders of a moneyed corporation or banking association to
recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability
created by law; but such actions must be brought within six
years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts'
upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached or the liability
was created."
The difference in the two sections is plainly seen, and consists in striking out the words as to a liability created by the
Revised Statutes, and enlarging the operation of the section

PLA'TT v. WILMOT.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to a "liability created by law." The words "liability created
by law," were held in Brinckerhofl v. Bostwick, 99 N. Y. supra,
to mean statutory liabilities which, as stated by Judge Earl,
(page 192,) "comprehend not only liabilities created by the
title and chapter of the Revised Statutes referred to, but also
those created by other statutes and the constitution of 1846,
(art. 8, § 7)."
In 1877 another amendment was made to the section by
leaving out the words "six years after the discovery, by the
aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created," and substituting
therefor the words "three years after the cause of action
accrued."
The act was further amended in 1897, and the statute (section 394) reads, after that amendment, in the way it has been
quoted above, so that the action must be brought within three
years after the cause of action has accrued to enforce a liability
created by the common law or by statute.
As to the meaning of this statute, it was held in the Hobbs
Case, 96 Fed. Rep. supra, that the legislature meant to enlarge
the former limitation so it should no longer be limited to liabilities created by one set of statutes or imposed upon the
officers or stockholders of moneyed corporations or banking
associations within the State only, but the terms of the statute
were held to be so broad as to include every class of liabilities of
such stockholders, whether they were stockholders of foreign
or domestic corporations. The statute was held to be a totally
different one from that which was originally passed, and the
language evinced an intention that it should not be so limited
as to apply only in favor of a New York stockholder in a domestic corporation but that on the contrary the statute should
also apply to a shareholder in a foreign corporation.
In our view this interpretation by the Circuit Court of Appeals is the correct one. We are of opinion that the amendments were not intended to continue the application of the
limitation to those corporations only which were domestic and
voL. cxci-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Oourt.

193 U. S.

were of the kind mentioned in the Revised Statutes, because as
amended the statute used language which was inconsistent
with that idea. The original reference to the liabilities of
directors and stockholders under the second title of the fRevised Statutes was stricken out and in place thereof language
was used which clearly indicated a purpose to extend the
statute to all liabilities of directors or stockholders in any
corporation, foreign or domestic, which liabilities were created
by common law or by statute, provided the corporation was a
moneyed corporation or banking association. We can see no
reason why the director or stockholder of a domestic corporation should cease to be liable in three years from the time the
cause of action accrued, while if he were a director or stockholder of a foreign corporation his liability should still last for
six years, upon a suit comlenced in New York.
It is not the case of a state legislature assuming to regulate
foreign corporations, and no such attempt has been made.
The substance of the legislation is that when suits are brought
in the State of New York to enforce therein the liabilities of
directors or stockholders, the statute of limitation enacted by
the legislature of that State in regard to directors or stockholders of domestic corporations shall also apply to directors
or stockholders of foreign corporations. This is what the
legislature has done and this is what it had the right to do.
The Federal courts, sitting in the State, will, in cases brought
therein, enforce the state statute of limitations in actions of
this nature.
This view of the statute is not affected by reason of the
language of the Revised Corporation Law of New York,
chap. 563 of the laws of 1890. That act is, by its terms,
confined to corporations under the laws of New York, but
sec. 394 of the Code is a different statute, and, as has been
seen, refers to any corporation, foreign or domestic, which may
be a moneyed corporation or banking association within the
meaning of the law of New York.
The next objection is, that even if the statute referred to

PLATT v. WILMOT.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

foreign as well as domestic corporations, yet the trust company is not a moneyed corporation within the meaning of the
section in question. What is meant by the term "moneyed
corporation," in section 394, is shown by the definition of that
term given in 1 Rev. Stat. 598, sec. 51, where it is said: "Section 51. The term 'moneyed corporation,' as used in this title,
shall be construed to mean every corporation having banking
powers, or having the power to make loans upon pledges or
deposits, or authorized by law to make insurances."
Although this definition refers to the meaning of the term
"moneyed corporation," as used in that title of the Revised
Statutes, we think it is plain that the same term used in section 394 of the Code means the same thing as defined in section 51. The legislature used a term which was well known
in the legislation of New York and for a long period of years a
definite meaning had been given to it in that legislation, and
when speaking of limitations of actions in regard to moneyed
corporations nothing would be more natural than to assume
that the term when thus used should have the same meaning
applied to it as had been defined by the legislature when enacting legislation in regard to moneyed corporations. This
legislation does not assume to enact what shall be "moneyed
corporations," in other States, but its effect is that when actions are brought in the State of New York and the question
arises whether a foreign corporation is or is not a moneyed
corporation, that question will be solved in such a case as this
for the purpose of construing the statute of limitations of the
State, by reference to the meaning given to the term by the
legislature or courts of New York, rather than by reference
to the legislation of another State under which the corporation
may have been formed. The question is not what the corporation is, under the legislation of that other State, but
whether what it is doing is of that description provided for
and designated by the legislation of the State 6f New York,
and if by that legislation it comes within the description of a
"moneyed corporation," it must abide thereby so far as re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

gards the statute of limitations of New York and the proper
construction to be given it.
Now by reference to the powers granted to the trust company it will be seen that it had power "to receive deposits of
money, bonds and securities; to loan money on real estate and
personal security;

.

.

."

etc. The powers granted to the

trust company bring it distinctly within the definition of the
term "moneyed corporation" as used in section 394 of the
Code of New York. It had power to loan money not only
on real estate but on personal security, and the statute of New
York said any corporation having the power to make loans
upon pledges or deposits was a moneyed corporation within
the meaning of the act.
Again, referring to the Revised Corporation Act of New York
of 1890, a moneyed corporation is therein stated to be one
formed under or subject to the banking or the insurance law.
If a foreign corporation have powers or some of them, which
are given a banking association under the law of New York,
that foreign corporation is, under the circumstances of this
case, a moneyed corporation or banking association within the
meaning of the New York statute of limitations now under
discussion. This corporation has at least some of those powers,
and we think comes within the definition of a banking association, although it also has other powers.
The third objection is that the liability of the stockholder
in this case is not created by the common law or by statute,
but is contractual in its nature, and is, therefore, governed by
section 382, (the material portion of which has already been
set forth,) instead of section 394 of the code.
The case of Whitman2 v. Oxford Nationzal Bank, 176 U. S. 559,
is cited to show that the double liability of the stockholder
under the Kansas constitution and statutes is of a contractual
nature, and, therefore, not within section 394, because it is not
a liability created by common law or by statute. In the
Whitman case it was held that this liability, though statutory
in origin, was contractual in its nature; or, in other words, the

PLATT v. WILMOT.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stockholder when he subscribed for or purchased his stock
entered into a contract authorized by statute. In that case it
was also held that the constitutional provision did not stand
alone, but that the legislature of Kansas had. also acted on the
subject matter, and that the constitution and the statutes
were to be taken together as making one body of law, and that,
therefore, it would serve no good purpose to inquire what
rights or remedies a creditor of a corporation might have or
what liabilities would rest upon a stockholder if either constitution or statutes stood alone and unaided by the other.
We think, within the meaning of section 394, this liability
was created by statute, as it was by virtue of the statutes that
the contractual liability arose. The language of the section
plainly includes this case. It is a liability created by the
statute, because the statute is the foundation for the implied
contract arising from the purchase of or subscription for the
stock, the contract being that the holder of the stock shall be
liable in accordance with the terms of the statute.
Also, while the liability is contractual in its nature, it arises
out of the constitution or the statute, or from a combination of
both, by virtue of the application of general principles of law
to the facts in the case. Neither the constitution nor the
statute says that the liability is contractual, but, as the constitution and statute existed, the liability arising therefrom,
as against the stockholder, is because of the principle of law
which works out a contractual liability upon these facts, and
it may be fitly described as the common law.
We think the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
right, and it is
Affirm ed.

