GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA RY. CO. v. OSBORN.
193 U. S.

17

Statement of the Case.

sued, do not affect the question of the power of the State. The
State is under no obligation to make its legislation conformable
to the contracts which the proprietors of bonded warehouses
may make with those who store spirits therein, but it is their
business, if they wish further protection than the lien given by
the statute, to make their contracts accordingly.
We see no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
and it is

Affirnwd.

GRAND

RAPIDS AND INDIANA RAILWAY COM-

PANY v. OSBORN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM[E COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 61.

Argued November 6, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

Where the determination by the state court of an alleged ground of estoppel
embodied in the ground of demurrer to an answer necessarily involves
a consideration of the claim set up in the answer of a contract protected
by the Constitution of the United States, a Federal question arises on the
record which gives this court jurisdiction.
Provisions in the railway law of Michigan of 1873, for the creation of a new
corporation upon the reorganization of a railroad by the purchaser at a
foreclosure sale, did not constitute a contract within the impairment
clause of the Constitution of the United States. New York v. Cook, 148
U. S. 397.
Purchasers of a railroad, not having any right to demand to be incorporated
under the laws of a State, but voluntarily accepting the privileges and
benefits of an incorporation law, are bound by the provisions of existing
laws regulating rates of fare and are, as well as the corporation formed,
estopped from repudiating the burdens attached by the statute to the
privilege of becoming an incorporation.

THIs is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of Michigan, which affirmed an order of
the Circuit Court of Kent County, Michigan, awarding a
peremptory writ of mandamus. By the writ the plaintiff in
error was, in effect, commanded to reduce its rates for the
transportation of passengers over its lines of railroad from
VOL.

cxcriI-2

OCTOBER TERM., 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

three cents per mile to two and one-half cents per mile, as
required by an act of the legislature of Michigan kmown as
Act 202 of the session of 1889.
The Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company was the
original owner of the road in question. That company was
incorporated under the laws of Michigan and Indiana in 187o,
and its line of railroad was constructed and put into operation
before January 1, 1873. It also owned and operated in
Michigan a number of short branch lines and several leased
lines; and its mileage in MNfichigan exceeded three hundred
miles. During the period between the incorporation of the
company and the construction of its road, railroad companies
which were operating in Michigan were authorized to regulate
the tolls and compensation to be paid for the transportation in
that State of persons and their baggage, but the charge which
might be made f-or such transportation was limited to three
cents per mile on roads over twenty-five miles in length. Tile
Michigan statutes also contained provisions authorizing" the
execution of mortgages and the issue of bonds by railroad
corporations. By Act 198, of the session of 1873, the laws
relating to railroads were revised, and such revision with
amendments is still in force. Compiled Laws of Michigan,
1897, c. 164, pp. 1937-2000. It was therein provide([ that
corporations organized under a prior general railroad law
"shall be deemed and taken to be organizations under this
act." By subdivision ninth of section 9 of article I the maximum charge which railroad corporations might make for the
transportation of passengers and their ordinary baggage on
roads exceeding twenty-five miles in length was fixed at three
cents per mile. Power was also conferred upon railroad coinpanies to borrow money, issue bonds or other obligations
therefor, and to mortgage their corporate property and franchises, and the income thereof, or any part thereof, assecurity.
Section 2 of article I of the act was as follows :
"In case of the foreclosure and sale of any railroad, or part
of any railroad, under any trustl deed, or mortgage given to
secure the payment of bonds sold to aid in its construction
and equipment, or for other cause authorized by law, it shall

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA RY. CO. v. OSBORN.
193 U. S.

19

Statement of the Case.

be competent and lawful for the parties who may become the
purchasers, and such others as they may associate with themselves, to organize a corporation for the management of the
same, and issue stock in the same in shares of one hundred
dollars each, to represent the property in said railroad; and
such corporation, when organized, shall have the same rights,
powers and privileges as are or may be secured to the original
company whose property may have been sold under and by
virtue of such mortgage or trust deed. Such organization
may be formed by virtue of a declaration or certificate of the
purchasers at the sale under said mortgage or trust deed,
which shall set forth the description of the property sold, and
the date of the deed under which it was sold, or the decree of
the proper court, if it shall have been sold by virtue of a decree of any court, and with such description of the parties to
the deed or suit as may identify the one or the other, or both;
the time of the sale, and the name of the officer who sold the
same; and also the purchasers, and the amount paid, and the
stockholders to whom stock is to be issued, and the amount of
the capital stock and the name of the new corporation, and
such other statements as may be found requisite to make definite
the corporation whose property may have been sold, and the
property sold, as well as the extents and rights and property
of the new company; which said certificate or declaration
shall be signed by all of the said purchasers and shall be addressed to the Secretary of State; and being filed and recorded
in his office, the said corporation shall become complete, with
all the powers and rights secured to railroad companies under
this act, to all the provisions of which, and amendments thereto, it shall be subject, and a certified copy of the said certificate
or declaration shall be prima facie evidence of the due organization of said company."
There was also a general provision that the act might be
altered, amended or repealed, but that such alteration, amendment or repeal" shall not affect the rights of property or companies organized under it."
In 1884 the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company
executed a second mortgage upon its railroad property to

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

secure an issue of three million dollars of bonds. While this
mortgage was in force, and in the year 1889, subdivision
ninth of section 9 of article II of the general railroad law of
1873-the section containing an enumeration of powers conferred upon railroad corporations-was amended to rea(d as
follows :
"Ninth. To regulate the time and manner in which passengers and property shall be transported, and the tolls and
compensation to be paid therefor; but such compensation for
transporting any passenger and his or her ordinar~y baggage,
not exceeding in weight one hundred and fifty pounds, shall
not exceed the following prices, viz: for a distance not exceeding five miles, three cents per mile; for all other distances,
for all companies, the gross earnings of whose passenger trains,
as reported to the commissioner of railroads for the year one
thousand eight hundred an(l eighty-eight, equaled or exceeded
the sum of three thousand dollars for each mile of road
operated by said company, two cents per mile, and for all
companies, the earnings of whose passenger trains reported as
aforesaid, were over two thousand and less than three thousand dollars per mile of road operated by said company, two
and a half cents per mile, and for all comlmanies whose earnings reported as aforesaid were less than two thousand dollars
per mile of road operated by said company, three cents per
mile: Provided,That in future, whenever the earnings of any
company doing business in this State, as reported to the coinmissioner of railroads at the close of any year, shall increase
so as to equal or exceed the sum of two thousand or thr'ee thousand dollars per mile of road operated by said company, then
in such case said companies shall thereafter, upon the notification of the commissioner of railroads, be required to only receive as compensation for the transportation of any passenger
and his or her ordinary baggage, not exceeding in weight one
hundred and fifty pounds, a rate of two cents and a half, or
two cents per mile, as hereinbefore provided : JProvide'd,That
roads in the Upper Peninsula which report as above provided
passenger earnings exceeding three thousand dollars per mile,
shall not charge to exceed three cents per mile, and roads re-

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA RY. CO. v. OSBORN.
193 U. S.

21

Statement of the Case.

porting less than three thousand dollars per mile shall be allowed to charge not to exceed four cents per mile. . .
The mortgage of 1884 was foreclosed; and, in 1896, under
decrees of Circuit Courts of the United States, the property
covered by such mortgage was sold to John C. Sims, subject
to a prior mortgage securing a large issue of outstanding
bonds. Sims and his associates subsequently executed the
certificate authorized by and complied with all the requirements mentioned in section 2 of article I of the general railroad law of 1873 aforesaid, and by virtue thereof the plaintiff
in error came into existence and took control of the railroad
property in question. It continued to exact a charge for the
transportation of passengers and their ordinary baggage of
three cents per mile.
In a statutory report made in 1891 by the plaintiff in error
to the commissioner of railroads of Michigan it was represented
that the gross earnings in Michigan of the passenger trains on
its lines of railroad exceeded $2,000 per mile of road operated.
Thereupon said commissioner notified plaintiff in error to reduce
its rates on passenger traffic to two and one-half cents per mile
for distances exceeding five miles. The order not being obeyed,
a proceeding in mandamus was instituted to compel compliance. In its answer to the rule to show cause the company
specially set.up the claim that, so far as it was concerned, the
statute was repugnant to the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and also violated the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. It
recited the cost to the plaintiff in error of the property indirectly acquired by it under the foreclosure, the amount of outstanding capital stock, the bonded indebtedness of the road
and the annual interest on such bonded debt; and represented
that the income from passenger traffic which would be received
if it put in force the reduced rates would leave but a trifling surplus after deduction of reasonable operating expenses, interest
on debt and other fixed charges. It was also averred in support
of the charge that the act was repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States, that the gross receipts
from passenger traffic in Michigan forming the basis of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

193 U. S.

proposed reduction in rates included receipts from interstate
traffic, and that if such interstate traffic receipts were included
the gross receipts would be less than $2,000 per mile, and hence
the reduced rates would not be enforcible.
On the hearing of the order to show cause it was contended
on behalf of the relator that the railroad company, by incorporating under the law which embodied the provisions complained of, thereby entered into a, contract with the State to
carry passengers at the rate fixed in the statute. By leave a
demurrer was filed to the answer, the single ground state(] in
support thereof being the following:
"That upon its incorporation in 1896 under the general
railroad law, the said respondent entered into and became a
party to a contract with the State of Michigan, one of the conditions of which is the agreement on the part of said respondent to carry all passengers at the rates fixed by subdivision
ninth, section nine of article two of said general railroad law,
under which it is incorporated."
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and awarded a
peremptory mandamus commanding the railway company to
"forth with and hereafter issue and cause to be issued tickets
to all persons applying therefor and desiring to travel over
its line of road in the State of Michigan, and to accept tolls or
compensation for transporting any person and his or her
ordinary baggage, not exceeding in weight one hundred and
fifty pounls, at the rate of two and one-half cents per mile
for all distances exceeding five miles." The record by writ of
certiorari was removed to the Supreme Court of Michigan.
In that court leave was given to add to the demurrer the following additional ground, viz: "2. That upon its incorporation
in 1896 under the general railroad law, the said respondent
became subject to that law and the provision therein requiring
it to carry passengers at the rates fixed in subdivision ninth,
section 9 of article II of that law, said provision in regard to
rates being one of the conditions of the existence of respondent." Waiving a decision of the first ground or demurrer,
the order awarding a peremrptory writ of mandamus was affirmed upon the second ground just recited. 130 Michigan,

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA RX.
193 U. S.

CO. r. OSBORN.

23

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248. By writ of error the judgment of affirmance has been
brought here for review.
.Mr. Thomas J. O'Brien, with whom ,i!r. ,ames I. Camybell was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The rate in question is unreasonable as matter of fact. It
is admitted by the demurrer to the answer. Covington &
Lexington T. 1?. Co. v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578, 592.
The enforcement of that rate upon the plaintiff in error
would deprive it of its property without due process of law,
and deny to it the equal protection of the laws, in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment, section 1. Chicago, Xlfd. & St. P.
P. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.418 ; MinneapolisEastern Pt. Go.
v. -31innesota,134 U. S. 467; Reagan v. F7armers' Loan &
Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, and the cases following it in 154 U. S. ;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; L. S. & Mich. S. ?. Co. v.
Smith, 173 U. S. 684 ; Chicago, ilfil. & St. P. . Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; Chicago & G. T. R. Co. v. lrellman, 143
U. S. 339.
The statute prescribing maximum rates of passenger fares
as construed by the Supreme Court of that State is repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment. Wellman case, 83 -ichigan,
592; Wabash case, 123 Michigan, 669; S. C., 126 Michigan,
113, held that the legislature is the final and exclusive judge
of what are reasonable rates and that the reasonableness of
rates fixed by statute is not open to review or inquiry in the
courts. The law is that reasonableness of rates prescribed by
statute is one for judicial determination. C.-1. & St. Paul 1.
Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 457 ; Reagan v. .Farmers'1. &
T. Co., 154 U. S. 362, 397; St. L. & . -F. R. Co. v. Gill, 156
U. S. 649, 657 ; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 527.
The method of establishing rates, undertaken by the Michigan statute, has all the features of the Minnesota plan, for
which the latter was condemned, and to a more objectionable
degree. The Aichigan statute neither contemplates nor allows any inquiry regarding the reasonableness of the rates.
The statute violates the commerce clause of the Constitution and attempts to regulate interstate commerce. In esti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

193 U. S.

mating earnings interstate fares earned are included. Commissioner v. Wabash R. Co., 126 Michigan, 113.
It is not competent to consider interstate business in determining the reasonableness of statutory rates for local fares,
and it is much less competent to actually include interstate earnings, or any part of them, in the computation which is the
basis of the local rate to be charged. .Louisville df Na.vhvill,
R2. Co.v. .Eubank,184 U. S. 27; Wabash &e. R. Co. v. ]llinoi,
118 U. S. 527; flanley v. .ttsas City othern Ry. Co., 187
U. S.617 ; Fargo v. Aficldgan, 121 IT. S. 230; Lyng v. Mich
igan, 135 U. S. 161 ; Phila. & Southern kS. . (. v. T)enn.p,vania, 122 U. S. 326, and cases cited; Zelou ) v. Jortq]f &lobile,
127 U. S. 640.
A state statute, requiring the payment of a license fee for
the privilege of doing business in the State by a corporation
engaged in interstate business, and at the same time in local
business within the State, is invalid ; the exaction of a license
fee is a tax on the occupation, and therefore on the business;
the fact that part of the business is internal to the State does
not remove the difficulty, because the tax affects the whole
business, interstate and local, without discrimination. Leloaul
v. Port of -Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Oeutle/ier v. Ken tucky, 141
U. S. 47; Caldwell v. North Carolina,181 U. S.622; (louce. ./r
Fe.ry Co. v. Penwsylva6ia, 114 U. S.204.
Provisions in a state law, which impose upon foreign corporations conditions which are in conflict with the constitution, cannot be enforced against a corporation which avails itself of the law, even after the enactment of such a provision.
Barow v. Burn ide, 126 U. S. 186 ; South eivb I)acioe Co. v.
Denton, 146 U. S.202.
Rights under the Constitution of the United States, and objections to the constitutionality of the statute, were expressly
and in due time asserted, and the effect of the judgment was
to deny those rights and overrule the objections. This court
has jurisdiction to review the judgment, although the state
court did not, in express terms, pass upon the Federal constitutionality of the law. Awlreu,' v. AndIrews, 188 U. S.14;
Detroit, Ft. Wayne c6c. 1. Co. v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383;

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA RY. CO. v. OSBORN.
193 U. S.

25

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Chicago -LifeIns. Co. v. 2eedles, 113 U. S. 574; Consolidated
Coal Co v. Illinois, 185 U. S. 203; Home Ins. Co. v. -Morse,
20 Wall. 445.
X,. 17orace l. Oren, with whom .M'. Charles A. Blair,
Attorney General of the State of Michigan was on the brief,
for defendant in error.
The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment authorize no
interference with the operation of rates or schedules established
by railway charters or incorporation laws in cases where the
corporation complaining accepted the charter or voluntarily
organized under the act establishing the rate or schedule.
San Diego, L. & T. Co. v. National City, 74 Fed. Rep. 79;
Dow v. Electric Co., 31 Atl. IRep. 22; S. C., 116 U. S. 489;
Pitkin, v. Springfield, 112 Massachusetts, 509; Deverson v.
Railroad Company, 58 1N. H. 129, 131, and cases cited;
Dodge v. Stickney, 61 N. tH. 607, 610; People v. MuqrTay, 5
Hill, 468, 4712.
The provision for the graduation of rates of fare by the per
mile passenger earnings of roads subject to the act, is not violative of the provision of the Constitution of the United States,
which inhibits a State from denying to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. The classification is not arbitrary, unjust or unreasonable, and its operation
does not result in unequal privileges to different corporations
that in justice should be on the same basis. Alagoun v. ill.
Trust & S. Bank, 170 U. S. 283.
The classification made in the act, by fixing a graduated
rate, based upon earnings per mile, has been held valid.
hicago & Grand Trunk .R. R. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339;
83 Michigan, 606, and see also Railroad Company v. Iowa,
94 U. S. 155; Dow v. Biedelman, 125 U. S. 680; Clark v.
Titusville, 183 U. S. 329.
Nor is the commerce clause of the United States Constitution infringed by the provisions of the state law for the adjustment of passenger rates.
As incident to the power to create corporations to engage
in interstate commerce, the State has authority in the charter

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

193 U. S.

or by the terms of the incorporation acts to prescribe the terms
and conditions upon which such commerce shall be engaged in.
Camden & Amlboy 1?. & T. Co. v. Briggs, 22 N. J. L. 623,
651 ; Railroad Company v. Laryland,21 Wallace, 456, 473;
(ov. &- Cin. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 223.
A purchaser of a railroad on foreclosure who incorporates
under the general railroad law of Michigan must be held to
have done so voluntarily, and a corporation thus created is
bound to conform to the schedule of fares therein provided the
same is a company incorporated thereunder to construct and
operate a new road.
A corporation is subject to, and cannot question the validity
of, the statute under which it has been voluntarily incorporated.
Louinille & N. R. Co. v. .lcentucky, 183 U. S. 503, 512, 513
(161 U. S. 703); Reagan v. ]2armers' L. &- . Co., 154 U. S.
362, 409, 411 ; Asdey v. Ryan., 153 U.S. 436, 443.
The statute, fixing the maximum rate of charge, is not unconstitutional because declared by the state Supreme Court to
be conclusive upon the courts and to allow no judicial investigation as to the reasonableness of the rates fixed.
The cases on brief of plaintiff in error are inapplicable.
See en ice v. MJfurdock, 92 U. S. 494; Genoa v. 1lroodrfff, 92
U. S. 502; 3lieidgan Central I. Co. v. .lyrick, 107 U. S. 102;
Cla'rk v. B-ever, 139 U. S. 96; Nzorton v. Shelby County, 118
U. S. 425.
The statute is -notvoid by reason of not providing for a judicial investigation as to reasonableness of rates fixed. Budd
v. -New Io rk, 143 U. S. 517; Brass v. North -Dakota, 153
"'. S. 391 ; Sa, Die.qo L., etc., Co. v. National City, 174 U. S.
739; St. L. &-San Fran. P. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649.
As to the right to be a corporation, see -Meyer v. Johnson,
53 Alabama, 237, 325; Eldridge v. Smith, 34 Vermont, 484,
489.
It was -not intended that the reorganized company should
have any franchise rights or powers or privileges which did
not have their source in, or which were not held pursuant to,
the act under which the reorganizing company was incorporated.

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA RY. CO. r. OSBORN.
193 U. S.

27

Opinion of the Court.

The right to invoke the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States is not a franchise or right originating in laws permitting incorporation,
and hence cannot be claimed to have been assigned or transferred by the operation of such laws. Ches. & Ohio ]?y. Co.
v. .AXiller, 114 U. S. 181 ; Wfilson v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417;
Ala. & Viclcsburg ly. Co. v. Odeneal, 73 Mississippi, 34, 39.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan was not
based upon any Federal question and this court is without
jurisdiction to review it.
Clay v. Smith, 3 Peters, 411;
Beauprg v. Noyes, 138 U. S. 397; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361.
The court passed not upon questions of a Federal or general
commercial character, but upon questions of purely local
Michigan law, involving the construction of the state statute
and the application of the principles of the Michigan common
law. The decision of a state court, upon questions of this
character, is conclusive and binding upon this court. Luther
v. Borden, 7 How. 40; Bucher v. Ch]eshire R. Co., 125 U. S.
555; Pittsburg,etc., P. Co. v. Backus, 154: U. S. 421; I-cE/lvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155; J2fillers' E rrs. v. Swann, 150
U. S. 132; Nor. Cen. Railway Co. v. Ahfaryland, 187 U. S.
258, 261.
Mi. JusTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
A jurisdictional question which was raised by the defendant in error requires first to be disposed of. It was objected
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan in the
case at bar was not based upon a Federal question, and hence
this court is, it is urged, without jurisdiction to entertain this
writ of error. The objection, however, is not well founded.
It is plain from the averments of the answer of the railroad
company to the petition in mandamus that the company relied upon the provisions of the general railroad law of 1873,
authorizing the incorporation of the purchasers of a railroad
after sale in the foreclosure proceedings, as constituting a contract protected by the Constitution of the United States. The
determination of the alleged estoppel embodied in the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

of demurrer to the answer of the railroad company, and which
was sustained by the Supreme Court of Michigan, necessarily
involved a consideration of this claim of a, contract right, protected from impairment by the Constitution of the United
States. In substance, if not in express terms, such question
was passed upon by the court below. A Federal question wvhich
gives this court jurisdiction therefore arises on the record.
That the section of the general railroad law of 1873, making
provision for the creation of a new corporation upon the reorganization of a railroad by the purchaser at a foreclosure sale,
did not constitute a contract protected by the Constitution of
the United States, is concluded by the decision in 1People ex
9.el. Sclturz v. Cook, 148 U. S. 397. There the )urchasers of
railroad property in the State of New York under a sale upon
foreclosure of a mortgage sought to escape the payinent of an
incorporation fee laid by the authority of certain statutes of
the State of New York enacted after the execution of the
mortgage. The claim was made that the statutes of the State
of New York authorizing the purchasers of railroads sohl upon
foreclosure to incorporate, which were in force when the mortgage was executed, constituted a contract between the State
of New York and the bondholders and their privies, and that
the enforcement of the subsequent statute providing for the
payment of an incorporation fee violated the obligation of the
alleged contract. The Court of Appeals of New York held
to the contrary, and its judgment was affirmed by this court.
In the course of the opinion of this court it was said (p. 410):
"The plaintiffs in error acquired the properties and franchises of these corporations, which were subject to the taxing
power of the State, after the act of 1886 was passed and went
into effect. There is no provision of the law under which they
made their purchase requiring them to become incorporated,
but desiring corporate capacity, they demanded the grant of
a new charter under which to exercise the franchises so acquired, without compliance with the law of the State existing
at the time their application for incorporation was made. We
are clearly of the opinion that the act of 1874, as amended in
1876, set up and relied upon by them, does not sustain such a

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA RY. CO. v. OSBORN.
193 U. S.

29

Opinion of the Court.

claim. The provisions of that act do not constitute a contract
on the part of the State with either the corporations, or the
mortgagees, bondholders or purchasers at foreclosure sale.
They are merely matters of law instead of contract, and the
right therein conferred upon purchasers of the corporate properties and franchises sold under foreclosure of mortgages
thereon, to reorganize and become a new corporation,is subject to the laws of the State existing or in force at the time of
such reorganization and the grant of a new charter of incorporation. Afemphis &c. Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 112
U. S.609."
It results from the foregoing that Sims-the purchaser of
the railroad property in question at the sale under foreclosure
-and his associates could not demand to be incorporated under the statutes of Michigan as a matter of contract right.
Possessing no such contract right, they or their privies cannot
now be heard to assail the constitutionality of the conditions
which were agreed to be performed when the grant by the
State was made of the privilege to operate as a corporation the
property in question. Having voluntarily accepted the privileges and benefits of the incorporation law of IMichigan the
company was bound by the provisions of existing laws regulating rates of fares upon railroads, and it is estopped from repudiating the burdens attached by the statute to the privilege
of becoming an incorporated body. Daniels v. Tearney, 102
U. S.415, and cases cited. That a railroad corporation may
contract with a municipality or with a State to operate a railway at agreed rates of fare is unquestionable. And where
the provisions of an accepted statute respecting rates to be
charged for transportation are plain and unambiguous, and do
not contravene public policy or positive rules of law, it is clear
that a railroad company cannot avail of privileges which have
been procured upon stipulated conditions and repudiate performance of the latter at will. Whether if a condition in a
statute is couched in ambiguous language and is susceptible of
two constructions, as it is claimed is the case before us in respect to the basis upon which the gross receipts per mile of
operated road were to be calculated, a construction should be

