WINOUS POINT SHOOTING CLUB v. CASPERSEN. 189
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In this case land in the same section as in the foregoing case
is involved, and as the title depends upon precisely the same
facts, this case is by stipulation of counsel to abide the event
of the other.
Judgment afirmed.

WINOUS POINT SHOOTING CLUB v. CASPERSEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 153. Argued February 24, 1904.-Decided March 7, 1904.

Federal questions cannot be raised in this court which did not arise below,
and where no Federal question is otherwise raised, and the only provision
of the Constitution referred to in the assignment of errors in the State
Court has no application, an averment of its violation creates no real
Federal question and the writ of error will be dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. S. H. Holding, with whom Mr. Harvey D. Goulder and

Mr. Frank S. Masten were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George A. True for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a suit brought by the Winous Point Shooting Club
against Caspersen and others in the Court of Common Pleas,
Ottawa County, Ohio, to enjoin defendants from fishing on
certain premises alleged to be parts of Sandusky River and
Mud Creek and to belong to plaintiff.
The court found that the waters in dispute formed part of a
public bay, which defendants had the right to navigate and
to fish in; and dismissed the petition.
The case was then carried to the Circuit Court of Ottawa

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

193 U. S.

County and there tried de novo. That court filed findings of
fact and conclusions of law; held that the waters in question
were not parts of Sandusky River and Mud Creek, and formed
part of a public bay, in whose waters defendants as members
of the public had the right of navigation and fishing; and the
petition was again dismissed. Plaintiff then took the case on
error to the Supreme Court of Ohio, and, with other alleged
errors not material here, assigned as error that "the judgment
of the court is in contravention of section 19, article I, of the
constitution of Ohio, and article V of the Constitution of the
United States, in that by said judgment the private property
of the plaintiff in error is taken for public use without just
compensation." There was no suggestion that any right under
the Constitution, or any statute of, or authority exercised

under, the United States, had been specially set up or claimed,
and decided against. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court and entered an order certifying as
"part of the record in this case and of the judgment and entry
of affirmance heretofore rendered and made herein, that. in the
prosecution of error to this court from the Circuit Court, of
Ottawa County, and in the arguments made in this court, in
behalf of plaintiff in error, it was insisted and relied upon by
said plaintiff that the waters in dispute had been surveyed and
meandered by the United States as those of Sandusky River
and Muddy Creek, and the lands mentioned and described in
said case had been surveyed, sold and patented by the United
States to plaintiff's predecessors in title as lands bordering upon
said river and creek, all of which acts had been done under
authority of acts of Congress; that plaintiff had and possessed
the sole and exclusive right of fishing in said waters; that, the
judgment and decree of the said Circuit Court, that said waters
are not those of Sandusky River and Muddy Creek, but those
of an open and public bay, in which the public had the rights
of fishing, was in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States, in that plaintiff was deprived of its private
property and the same was taken for a public use, without just

WINOUS POINT SHOOTING CLUB v. CASPERSEN. 191
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

compensation to it; and it became material to the determination of said case in this court to determine said question so
made by plaintiff in error, which was determined adversely to
plaintiff in error, as appears in the entry and judgment of
affirmance heretofore made herein."
The certificate in itself would not confer jurisdiction, but
may properly be referred to, and it appears therefrom as well
as from the terms of the assignment of error in the Supreme
Court that plaintiff's contention was that the judgment of the
Circuit Court was in violation of the Fifth Amendment. But
that amendment is a restriction on Federal power, and not on
the power of the States. The Supreme Court of Ohio gave no
affirmative expression of its views in that regard, or, indeed,
in respect of section 19 of article I of the constitution of Ohio,
treating of taking private property for public use on compensation made.
The judgment was affirmed on the authority of Bodi v.
lVinous Point Shooting Club, 57 Ohio St. 226. In that case the
same waters were in dispute as in this case, and it was held that
they formed "part of a public bay and not parts of the Sandusky River and Mud Creek," and the ruling in Sloan v.
Biemiller, 34 Ohio St. 492, sustaining the public rights of navigation and fishing, in such circumstances, was followed and
approved.
Federal questions cannot be raised here which did not arise
below, and as the Fifth Amendment had no application the
averment of its violation created no real Federal question.
Chapin v. Fry, 179 U. S.127.
Writ of error dismissed.

