278

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

game and fish is recognized, and also that the latest revision of the fish law by Congress was passed after the
present tax law had been enacted and had been upheld
by the District Court; that it provided that nothing
therein contained should curtail the powers of the Territorial Legislature of Alaska, and that it showed no sign
of dissatisfaction with the way in which those powers had
been used. Act of June 6, 1924, c. 272, § 8; 43 Stat. 464,
467.
It is much pressed that the tax discriminates against
large canneries in favor of small ones--this especially as
contravening the Fifth Amendment and denying due
process of law. Classification of taxes by the amount of
the corpus taxed has been sustained in various connections
heretofore. By way of specific snswer it is pointed out
by the Attorney General of Alaska that the size of the run
of salmon cannot be foreseen; that a cannery must be
prepared to its full capacity; that there always will be an
irreducible minimum of expense to be borne whatever the
size of the pack; that therefore a small pack may mean a
loss and a larger one a profit, and that on these considerations the law justly may attempt to proportion the tax to
the probable gains. The inequalities of the tax are based
upon intelligible grounds of policy and cannot be said to
deny the petitioner its constitutional rights.
Judgment affirmed.
HENDERSON WATER COMPANY v. CORPORATION COMMISSION OF NORTH CAROLINA
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 249. Argued November 18, 1925.-Decided December 14, 1925.
Where a water company, bound to maximum rates by its contract
with a city, applied to a state commission and secured an order

HENDERSON WATER CO. v. CORP. COMM.
278

279

Opinion of the Court.

allowing an increase, but only one-half of that asked for, with the
right, however, to apply for further relief at the end of a test
period, the company, after making the test, must exhaust its remedy with the commission before suing in the District Court to enjoin enforcement of the rates as confiscatory. P. 280.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the istrict Court refusing a
temporary injunction in a suit to restrain water rates, on
the ground of confiscation.

Mr. J.H. Bridgers, for appellant.
Messrs. Bennett Hester Perry and T. T. Hicks, for
appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTicE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code from
an order refusing a temporary injunction heard before
three judges. The Henderson Water Company is the
owner by assignment of a franchise to furnish to Henderson, North Carolina, a supply of water. The franchise,
with a term of forty years, was granted in 1892 by the
city, when it was a town, to certain grantees, from whom
it came in 1894 to the Water Company, which was complainant below, and is appellant here. The ordinance
provided a schedule of prices for water to be furnished
beyond which the grantee could not go. Later the State
of North Carolina created a Corporation Commission,
having power to fix rates for public utilities of the State.
1919 Consol. Stats. of North Carolina, §§ 1066, 1097-1103,
2783, 1037.
On September 27, 1922, the complainant filed with the
Corporation Commission a petition setting forth the original cost of construction of its plant, the amount expended
in permanent improvements, and the earning capacity of
the same under the schedule of rates provided in the fran-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

chise, and, because of the alleged inadequate return from
them, asked the Corporation Commission to grant to it
the right to charge rates higher by 10 per cent. The
Commission heard the complaint, and March 29, 1923,
ordered an increase of about one-half that asked for, to
take effect July 27, 1923, with the direction that after the
corporation had tried the rates fixed for six months, it
might apply again for such relief as the results would
justify.
The end of the six months' test proposed was January
27, 1924. Without applying again to the Commission,
the Water Company, on February 22, 1924, filed this bill
to enjoin the Commission from continuing to enforce the
rates fixed by the order made in the spring of 1923. on
the ground that they were confiscatory.
Meantime, the city of Henderson had brought suit
against the Commission, to which the Water Company
was not a party, to enjoin the Commission from fixing
rates different from the rates stipulated in the franchise,
on the ground that its contract rights were being violated.
In that action the city of Henderson was defeated in the
court of first instance, and in the Supreme Court of North
Carolina on appeal. CorporationCommission v. Henderson Water Co., 190 N. C. 70. See also CorporationCommission v. Cannon Mfg. Cd, 185 N. C. 17, 25; Southern
Public Utilities Co. v. City of Charlotte, 179 N. C. 151.
The District Court puts refusal to grant the injunction
in the present case on the ground that the complainant
had not sufficiently exhausted its remedies before the Corporation Commission. We think the District Court was
entirely right in this.
Jt is urged on behalf of the Company that it has a constitutional right to try the question whether it is suffering
confiscation and should not be denied that right, even
during such a test as six months. It relies on Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company v. Russell, .261 U. S. 290. In that

HENDERSON WATER CO. v. CORP. COMM.
278

281

Opinion of the Court.

case a public utility corporation sought an injunction to
prevent the enforcement of an alleged confiscatory rate,
pending an appeal from the court of first instance in Oklahoma to the state Supreme Court, in a proceeding in
which both the court of first instance and the Supreme
Court were exercising the legislative function of fixing
rates. The complaint was that plaintiffs were suffering
daily from confiscation under the rate to which they were
limited by the state commission, and that even if the
state Supreme Court changed the rate thereafter on
appeal they would have no adequate remedy for their
losses before the court acted. They had applied to the
Supreme Court for a supersedeas, but it had been denied.
This Court held that comity must give way to constitutional right, and that the Gas Company was entitled to
a hearing on its application for an injunction without
awaiting the action of the state court. In the case of
Prentis v. The Atlantic Coast Line Company, 211 U. S.
210, 231, on the other hand, a state commission of Virginia fixed rates for a railway and an appeal was taken
under the statute to the Supreme Court of the State
which had power legislatively to fix or change rates. A
bill was filed by the Railway to restrain the rates fixed
by the commission before the appeal had been perfected.
and passed on. The company had made no effort to
secure a revision and there had been no present invasion
of its rights under the order of the state commission but
only the taking of preliminary steps toward cutting the
rates down. So this Court directed the bill in that case
to be retained until the result of the appeal to the
Supreme Court if the company saw fit to tke it.
The present case differs from the cases cited, in that
when the Water Company applied to the Corporation
Commission for an order increasing rates, it was bound
by the terms of a contract with the city contained in its
franchise, to furnish water at a low schedule of rates fixed

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

therein. It was not entitled to any judicial relief from
this situation, however inadequate the rates. Columbus
Railway Company v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399; Public
Service Company v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352. Only by
securing the waiver of the franchise rates by order of the
Corporation Commission speaking for the State, did the
Water Company have any standing to ask for a. fi;King of
rates in excess of the franchise rates. Trenton V. New
Jersey, 262 U. S. 182. It was, thprefore, plainly within
the power and discretion of the Commission after granting partial relief to delay further action in the same proceeding until it could satisfy itself by actual trial to what
extent its waiver should go. No constitutional rights of
the Water Company to be protected against confiscation
would be infringed by such reasonable delay.
We concur with the District Court in the view that
the Water Company should have applied for a resumption
of the hearing after the test and exhausted its remedy
there before a resort to this suit.
Affirmed.

