OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

rier knew that the agent was ignorant of the true value
of the goods. No argument is made for the respondent
and it is plain that the judgment cannot be sustained.
The carrier's knowledge of the agent's ignorance of the
value was immaterial. It acted in good faith. The carrier's schedules should have been admitted and bound
both parties. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227
U. S. 639, 652, 653. Southern Express Co. v. Byers, 240
U. S. 612, 614. American Railway Express Co. v. Lindenburg, 260 U. S. 584. The sender is bound to know the
relation established by them between values and rates.
Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S. 357, 360. Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Esteve Brothers & Co., 256 U. S. 566.
Judgment,reversed.
BUCKEYE COAL & RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. HOCKING VALLEY RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 51.

Argued October 15, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. Where a decree of the District Court, dissolving a combination
violative of the Anti-Trust Act, retains jurisdiction for the purpose
of making such l'urther orders as may be necessary to execute the

'_decree, a subsequent order finally approving a specific sale of
property for that purpose exhausts the reserved jurisdiction in so
far as that sale is concerned, and cannot be altered by that court
upon the same facts and upon the application of private interests,
after expiration of the term at which such order was made. P. 47.
2. An order approving a sale of the stock of a coal company under
a contract between the purchaser and a railroad company owning
the stock, necessarily approved also a stipulation in the contract
saving from impairment an existing pledge of the coal company's
lands under the railroad's mortgage and an obligation of the coal

BUCKEYE CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY CO.

43

Counsel for Parties.

42

compafiy under the mortgage to pay a royalty upon coal mined
by it to the railroad's mortgagee. P. 47.
3. Where a coal company, whose stock, owned by a railroad company,
was sold with the approval of the District Court in execution
of a decree against the railroad, its mortgage trustee and others,
dissolving a combination as violative of the Anti-Trust Act, afterwards, in the state court, sued the railroad and the trustee for the
purpose of avoiding obligations claimed under the railroad's mortgage, held that the decree of the state court denying relief was
res judicata against the coal company in so far as its personal and
private right to be relieved of such obligations was concerned.
P. 48.
4. One who has no interest of his own entitling him to urge measures
in execution of a decree dissolving a combination under the AntiTrust Act has no locus standi to do so in the public interest, that
being the function of the United States. P. 48.
5. A corporation which was not injured by such a combination, and
not party to the original decree'dissolving it, and which is controlled
by a person who bought all its shares under an order of the court
made in execution of the decree, has no standing to intervene for
the purpose of ridding itself, and so, in effect, the purchaser, of
its obligations to other parties which existed at the time of the
sale and were recognized by the order which authorized the sale.
P. 49.
Affirmed.

from an order of the District Court dismissing
the appellants' petition in intervention seeking relief in
a suit brought by the United States under the Anti-Trust
Act and in .which a decree had been entered for the dissolution of a combination of railway and coal companies. See
203 Fed. 295.
APPEAL

Messrs. William 0. Henderson and William Burry, for

appellants.
Mr. John F. Wilson, with whom Messrs. A. C. Rearick

and Paul Smith were on the briefs, for appellee Hock-

ing Valley Railway Company.
Mr. Arthur H. Van Brunt, for appellee Central Union
Trust Company.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

269 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The suit in equity in which this is an appeal was begun
by the United States in the District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, against the Hocking Valley Railway Company, five other railway companies, and three coal companies, and was heard before
the three Circuit Judges of that circuit. It was a proceeding under the, Anti-Trust Act to dissolve an illegal
combination of the defendants to monopolize the business
of transporting and selling coal from the coal fields of
Ohio in interstate commerce. Act of February 11, 1903,
32 St. 823, ch. 544., A full hearing resulted, March, 1914,
in finding that the illegal combination existed and in a
comprehensive decree radically dissolving the combination. (203 Fed. Rep. 295.) The railway companies were
directed to part with all their interests in the coal companies 'and the business of mining and selling coal was
ordered to be separated from that of railway transportation by the sale of the stocks of the defendant coal companies held by the railway companies, and the dissolving
of other relations which had made the combination possible and effective. Jurisdiction of the cause was retained by
the court for the purpose of making such other and further
orders and decrees as might be necessary to the due execution of the decree and the complete dissolution of the
combination and monopoly therein condemned.
The Buckeye Coal & Railway Company was not a party
to the original suit. All of its stock was owned by the
Hocking Valley Railway Company. Its property consisted of 11,000 acres of coal land in the coal fields of Ohio,
with an estimated deposit of 18,000,000 tons. In 1899,
the Buckeye Company had pledged its coal lands in a
mortgage of the Hocking Valley Railway Company to tie
Central Trust Company to secure $20,000,000 of the Railway Company's bonds. In the same mortgage, the Buck-

BUCKEYE CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY CO.
.12

45

Opinion of the Court.

eye Company agreed to pay 2 cents royalty on each ton
of coal mined by it to the Central Trust Company, the
mortgage trustee, to be applied to the redemption of the
bonds. The Buckeye Company was not an obligor on the
bonds. The Hocking Valley Railway Company in addition to the pledge- of its railway property, the Buckeye
coal lands and the royalty, included in the mortgage also
all the capital stock of the Buckeye Company. Upon an intervening petition of the original complainant, the United
States, and after a hearing to which the Hocking Valley
Railway Company and the Central Trust Company, the
mortgage trustee, were parties, an order was made by the
court by which the capital stoc1&of the Buckeye Company
was directed to be sold, freed from the lien of the mortgage, and subject to the approval of the court. This
order was made May 19, 1916. The Hocking Valley Railway Company then made a contract with one John S.
Jones, to sell him all the Buckeye Coal Company stock
for $50,000 under a contract by which it was agreed that
the stock sold should be released from the pledge of the
mortgage. There was an express stipulation that the contract was not to impair the covenants of the Buckeye
Company in the Hocking Valley Railway mortgage in
respect of the, lands of the Coal Company or of the 2 cents
royalty, except that the Hocking Company agreed that its
railroad property pledged under the mortgage should be
first exhausted before any recourse should be had to the
coal lands of the Buckeye Company. The contract of
purchase was made subject to the presentation of its terms
to the court and its approval. On October 5, 1916, the
Hocking Valley Company reported the sale to the court,
reciting the contract. On November 10, 1916, the District Court, after reciting the report of the contract of
purchase and the dismissal of the appeal, and the tender
of the purchaser for examination, found the purchaser
satisfactory and approved thepurchase. Jones took pos-

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

session of the stock and organized a new company, the
Sunday Creek Coal Company, which by exchange of stock
succeeded to the ownership of the coal lands of the Buckeye Company and that of other companies. It is conceded by counsel for the coal companies that the value of
the property of the Railway Company which must first
be resorted to to pay the bonds is far greater than the
amount due on them, so that the lien on the coal lands
is negligible.
In April, 1919, the coal companies brought a suit in a
state court against the Central Trust Company and the
Hocking Valley Railway Company, in Ohio, to quiet their
title to the coal lands. The Common Pleas Court of
Ohio, after a full hearing, denied the prayer and sustained
the validity of the mortgage lien upon the coal lands and
the royalty. The decree of the Common Pleas Court was
affirmed in the intermediate appellate court and in the
Supreme Court of Ohio. The final disposition of the
cause was on June 7, 1921. This is pleaded herein by the
Central Trust Company, trustee, as res judicata.
The coal companies, on December 6, 1921, applied for
leave to the court below to file the intervening petition,
here the subject of consideration. Leave was granted, and
the Hocking Valley Railway Company and the Central
Trust Company parties were required to answer. The
prayer is that they be enjoined from enforcing the mortgage lien upon the coal lands of the Buckeye Company or
the two cents a ton royalty. The ground urged is that
the maintenance of these two liens constitutes such a relation between the coal companies and the Railway Company as to be a violation of the main decree and the AntiTrust law, in that it furnishes a motive for the Railway
Company illegally to favor the coal companies in their
interstate transportation of coal to the selling markets.
Thereafter, the United States by leave also, filed a petition against the same defendants in which, in the public

BUCKEYE CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY CO.
42

47

Opinion of the Court.

interest, it asked that the association between the Railway
Company and the coal companies be dissolved by cancelling the liens with or without compensation.
The petition of the, United States and the petition of
the coal companies came on for hearing together. The
District Court denied the petition of the coal companies,
on the ground, first, that the order of November 10, 1916,
approving the sale of the stock of the Buckeye Company
was a final order and the District Court had no power to
alter it, and, second, that the decree against the two companies in the state court was res judicata. As to the petition of the United States, the court conceded that, under
the reservation of the main decree, such an application
could be made to it for further relief to achieve the purpose of the main decree. It said that the fact that the
court had approved the sale of the stock of the Buckeye
Company indicated that the court had found that the
release of the liens was not essential to carrying out the
purpose of the decree and did not involve such an association between the Railway Company and the Coal Company as to interfere with the effectiveness of that decree.
But, while dismissing the petition, it left opportunity open
in its order to the United States to apply for further
relief in the matter, if such an association came to be used
as a means of defeating the main decree. The United
'States has not appealed from this order of dismissal of its
petition. The only appeal is that of the two coal companies.
There is an embarrassment of reasons why the appeal
of the two coal companies should fail. Their intervening
petition seeks to vary or set aside the order of the District
Court, which necessarily approved not only the sale of the
Buckeye stock but also the stipulation in the contract of
sale that the pledge of the coal lands and the 2 cent royalty
should be unimpaired.' That order was made November
10, 1916. It was a final order in respect of the sale ap-

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U S.

proved. The clause of reservation in the main decree, as
the court below said, was exhausted so far as that sale
was concerned. All the facts, including the contract of
purchase, were then before the court. No new ones have
since been developed. The term has long passed within
which that order could be altered by the court which
made it.
Second, the validity of the covenants of the mortgage
entered into by the Buckeye Company was affirmed by
the decree in the litigation between the Hocking Valley
Railway Company, the Central Trust Company, the
mortgage trustee, and the two coal companies, appellants.
This was res judicata, so far at least as the personal and
private rights of the coal companies were concerned.
Third, even if we assume that the United States might
apply under the reservation clause to the District Court
to direct the cancellation of the mortgage lien on the coal
lands and the covenant as to the royalty, on a showing
that they were being used to continue the illegal combination condemned in the main decree, it could only be done
in the interest of the public represented by the United
States. The petition of the United States on this head
was denied by the court below, and the United States has
taken no appeal. The status of the two coal companies in
the court. below and here is merely that of informers.
Their attitude, if it is nicely analyzed, seems to be, that
unless the mortgage lien on their coal lands to secure the
railway bonds, and the 2 cent royalty, are cancelled, they
may be induced to enter a conspiracy with the Railway
Company by which the Railway Company will grant them
unlawful and discriminating favors in railway transportation to enable them to increase the coal mined and the
royalty to be applied to redeem the bonds. They wish to
have this temptation to crime on their part removed, and
incidentally have themselves relieved from obligations
which were recognized by the court as valid and binding

DONEGAN v. DYSON.
42

Syllabus.

in the judicial sale of the entire capital stock of the
Buckeye Company, and which, as against them, have been
adjudged valid by the courts of Ohio. The United States,
which must alone speak for the public interest, does not
appear with them on this appeal. They have therefore no
locus standi. United States v. Northern Securities Co.,
128 Fed. 868.
Underneath all these reasons for dismissing the appeal;
is the fundamental objection that these coal companies
presented no case upon their petition justifying their intervention. The' were not parties to the original suit.
Their interest was not of persons who had suffered by the
original combination made the subject of the main decree,
who might have had relief under the 16th section of the
amendment to the Anti-Trust Act, October 15, 1914, c.
323, 38 St. 730. They were really put forward as intervening parties in the interest of Jones, the purchaser at the
judicial sale of all their stock through which he continues
to manage them. His, and therefore their, only claim to
be heard at all must be based on the decree confirming
the purchase, part of the, consideration for which, as approved by the court, they now seek to impeach.
Decree affirmed.
DONEGAN v. DYSON, U. S. MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 185.

Motion submitted October 5, 1925.-Decided November
16, 1925.

1. In view of the saving clause in the Act of October 22, 1913, abolishing the Commerce Court, that Act did not repeal ยง 201, Judicial
Code, providing that the 6ircuit judges appointed to the Commerce
Court, when designated and assigned by the Chief Justice of the
United States for service in a district court or circuit court of ap-

