CONNALLY v. GENERAL CONST. CO.

385

Argument for Appellants.

CONNALLY, COMMISSIONER, ET AL. V. GENERAL
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 314.

Argued November 30, December 1, 1925.--Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A criminal statute which either forbids or requires the doing of
an act in terms so vague that men of common intelligence must
guess at*its meaning and differ as to its application, lacks the first
essential of due process of law. P. 391.
2. Oklahoma Comp. Stats. 1921, §§ 7255, 7257, imposing severe,
cumulative punishments upon contractors with the State who pay
their workmen less than the "current rate of per diem wages in the
locality where the work is performed,"--held void for uncertainty.
P. 393.
3 Fed. (2d) 666, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court awarding
an interlocutory injunction, upon the bill and a motion
to dismiss it (demurrer), in a suit to restrain state and
county officials of Oklahoma from enforcing a statute
purporting, inter alia, to prescribe a minimum for the
wages of workmen employed by contractors in the execution of contracts with the State, and imposing fine or
imprisonment for each day's violation.
Messrs. George F. Short, Attorney General of Oklahoma, and J. Berry King, with whom Mr. Leon S. Hirsh
was on the brief, for appellants.
The constitutionality of statutes is the strongest presumption known to the courts. United States v. Brewer,
139 U. S. 278; State ex rel. Hastings v. Smith, 35 Neb. 13;
State v. LancashireFire Ins. Co., 66 Ark. 466; Commonwealth v. Libbey, 216 Mass. 356. The "Current Wage
Law" meets all the requirements of definiteness considered in cases involving other statutes dependent upon a

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

269 U. S.

state of mind, the Oklahoma law being dependent upon
a given state of facts, readily ascertainable. WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86. Decisions upon the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act are undoubtedly of considerable
bearing in a case of this type, for had not a more liberal
construction been there indulged than is required of the
"Current Wage Law," the term "undue and unreasonable
restraint of trade" would never have been considered
sufficiently definite to sustain a prosecution as due process
of law. Standard Oil Co. v. United Stdtes, 221 U. S. 31.
See United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 84; United
States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United
States v. Eastman Kodak Co., 226 Fed. 65; and Northern
Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197-all defining, in one way or another, what acts are "undue and
unreasonable" acts, contracts or combinations resulting
in, or tending to result in a monopoly.or restraint of trade.
United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Ass'n., 166 U. S.
290. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, foreclosed the
entire question of vagueness and uncertainty. United
States v. Patterson,201 Fed. 697. In State v. Tibbetts,
205 Pac. 776, the question of uncertainty by reason of the
term "current rate of per diem wages" was not involved;
but the statute was attacked on rehearing for uncertainty
of the term "locality" and held to be valid. Indefiniteness as to the term "locality" cannot be asserted by
appellee since the Tibbetts Case and the Waters-Pierce
Oil Company Case definitely foreclose that question.
Were it not for this proviso as to wages, the entire
salutary effect of the "Eight Hour Law" would be
aborted. General classes of labor maintain a fairly uniform rate of pay-what might properly be termed a
"market price." Such was the recognition given to the
term "prevailing rate of wages" in Ryan v. City of New
York, 79 N. Y. S. 599 and McMahon v. City of New York,
47 N. Y. S. 1018. There can be but one prevailing or

CONNALLY v. GENERAL CONST. CO.
385

387

Argument for Appellants.

market scale for each type of labor. In each locality
there must be a current rate dictated by the law of supply
and demand, modified by the standard of living in the particular community, the price of commodities and other
various elements.
See People ex rel. Rodgers v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1;
People v. Crane, 214 N. Y. 154; Fox v. Washington, 236
U. S. 273; Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Commission,
236 U. S.246; Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S. 246; Bradford v. State, 78 Tex. Cr. 285; Commonwealth v. Reilly,
142 N. E. 915; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. v. Enderle, 170
S. W. 278; State v. Texas & Pacific R. Co., 106 Tex. 18;
Morse v. Brown, 206 Fed. 232.
Statutes containing such provisions as prohibiting the
driving of vehicles "at a speed greater than is reasonable
or prudent" have been held, in numerous cases, to be
valid against the charge of vagueness and uncertainty of
the offense prescribed. See also State v. Quinlan, 86
N. J. L. 120; United States v. Sacks of Flour, 180 Fed.
5i8; Aiton v. Bd. of Medical Examiners, 13 Ariz. 354;
People v. Apflebaum, 251 Ill. 18; Klafter v. State Bd. of
Examiners, 259 Ill. 15; Katzman v. Commonwealth, 140
Ky. 124; State v. Lawrence, 9 Okla. Cr. 16; Stewart v.
State, 4 Okla. Cr. 564; -Mustardv. Elwood, 223 Fed. 225;
Miller v. United States, 41 App. D. C. 52; Keefer v. State,
174 Ind. 255; State v. Newman Lbr. Co., ,102 Miss. 802;
Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369; Pitney v. Washington,
240 U. S. 387; United States v. United States Brewers'
Ass'n., 239 Fed. 163; Denver Jobbers' Ass'n. v. People
ex rel. Dixon, 21 Colo. App. 350.
A close study of all of the foregoing decisions demonstrates that a mental attitude as the standard of certainty
almost invariably sustains the constitutionality of a statute. Where the standard is dependent upon a condition
or state of facts, ascertainable by investigation, as a "cur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
269 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rent rate or per diem wages" in a given locality, a law
based thereon is within all requirements of "due process."
There is no unlawful delegation of legislative power in
the provision, in the Oklahoma labor laws, that the Commissioner of Labor is to carry into effect all the laws in
relation to labor, passed by the Legislature of the State.
The provisions in question are not in conflict with the
Federal Constitution as a taking of private property
without compensation, nor as an interference with the
freedom of contract.
Mr. J. D. Lydick, with whom Messrs. Charles E.
McPherren, K. C. Sturdevant and Irvin L. Wilson were
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to enjoin certain state and county officers
of Oklahoma from enforcing the provisions of § 7255 and
§ 7257, Compiled Oklahoma Statutes, 1921, challenged as
unconstitutional. Section 7255 creates an eight-hour day
for all persons employed by or on behalf of the state, etc.,
and provides "that not less than the current rate of per
diem wages in the locality where the work is performed
shall be. paid to laborers, workmen, mechanics, prison
guards, janitors in public institutions, or other persons so
employed by or on behalf of the State,

.

.

.

and

laborers, workmen, mechanics, or other persons employed
by contractors or subcontractors in the execution of any
contract or contracts with the State,

.

.

.

shall be

deemed to be employed by or on behalf of the State,
."

For any violation of the section, a penalty is

imposed by § 7257 of a fine of not less than fifty nor more
than five hundred dollars or imprisonment for not less
than three nor more than six months. Each day that the
violation continues is declared to be a separate offense.

CONNALLY v. GENERAL CONST. CO.
385

389

Opinion of the Court.

The material averments of the bill, shortly stated, are
to the following effect: The construction company, under
contracts with the state, is engaged in constructing certain bridges Within the state. In such work, it employs
a number of laborers, workmen and mechanics, with each
of whom it has agreed as to the amount of wages to be
paid upon the basis of an eight-hour day; and the amount
so agreed upon is reasonable and commensurate with the
services rendered and agreeable to the-employee in each
case.
The Commissioner of Labor complained that the rate of
wages paid by the company to laborers was only $3.20
per day, whereas, he asserted, the current rate in the locality where the work was being done was $3.60, and gave
notice that, unless advised of an intention immediately to
comply with the law, action would be taken to enforce
compliance. From the correspondence set forth in the
bill, it appears that the commissioner based his complaint
upon an investigation made by his representative concerning wages "paid to laborers in the vicinity of Cleveland," Oklahoma, near which town one of the bridges
was being constructed. This investigation disclosed the
following list of employers with the daily rate of wages
paid by each: City, $3.60 and $4.00; Johnson Refining
Co., $3.60 and $4.05; Prairie Oil & Gas, $4.00; Gypsy Oil
Co., $4.00; Gulf Pipe Line Co., $4.00; Brickyard, $3.00
and $4.00; I. Hansen, $3.60; General Construction Co.,
$3.20; Moore & Pitts Ice Co., $100 per month; Cotton
Gins, $3.50 and $4.00; Mr. Pitts, $4.09; Prairie Pipe
Line Co., $4.00; C. B. McCormack, $3.00; Harry 1. eCoy,
$3.00. The scale of wages paid by the construction company to its laborers was stated to be as follows: 6 men @
$3.20 per day; 7 men @ $3.60; 4 men @ $4.00; 2 men
@ $4.40; 4 men @ $4.80; 1 man @ $5.20; and 1 man

@ $6.50.

In determining the rate of wages to be paid by the
company, the commissioner blaimed to be acting under

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

authority of a statute of Oklahoma which imposes upon
him the duty of carrying into effect all laws in relation
to labor. In the territory surrounding the bridges being
constructed "by plaintiff, there is a variety of work performed by laborers, etc., the value of whose services depends upon the class and kind of labor performed and
the efficiency of the workmen. Neither the wages paid
nor the work performed are uniform; wages have varied
since plaintiff entered into its contracts for constructing
the bridges and employing its men; and it is impossible
to determine under the circumstances whether the sums
paid by the plaintiff or the amount designated by the
commissioner or either of them constitute the current per
diem wage in the locality. Further averments are to
the effect that the commissioner has threatened the company and its officers, agents and representatives' with
criminal prosecutions under the foregoing statutory provisions, and, unless restrained, the county attorneys
for various counties named will institute such prosecutions; and that, under § 7257, providing that each day's
failure to pay current wages shall constitute a separate
offense, maximum penalties may be inflicted aggregating
many thousands of dollars in fines and many years of
imprisonment.
The constitutional grounds of attack, among others, are
that the statutory provisions, if enforced, will deprive
plaintiff, its officers, agents and representatives, of their
liberty and property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the federal Constitution; that they contain no ascertainable standard of
guilt; that it cannot be determined with any degree of
certainty what sum constitutes a current wage in any
locality; and that the term "locality" itself is fatally
vague and uncertain. The bill is a long one, and, without
further review, it is enough to say that, if the constitutional attack upon the statute be sustained, the averments
justify the equitable relief prayed.

CONNALLY v. GENERAL CONST. CO.
385

391

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the bill and a motion to dismiss it, in the nature
of a demurrer attacking its sufficiency, an application for
an interlocutory injunction was heard by a court of three
judges, under § 266 Jud. Code, and granted; the allegations of the bill being taken as true. 3 Fed. (2d) 666.
That the terms of a penal statute creating a new offense
must be sufficiently explicit to inform those who are subject to it what conduct on their part will render them
liable to its penalties, is a well-recognized requirement,
consonant alike with ordinary notions of fair play and the
settled rules of law. And a statute which either forbids
or requires the doing of an act in terms so vague that men
of common intelligence must necessarily guess at its
meaning and differ as to its application, violates the first
essential of due process of law. International Harvester
Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221; Collins v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 634, 638.
The question whether given legislative enactments have
been thus wanting in certainty has frequently been before
this court. In some of the cases the statutes involved
were upheld; in others, declared invalid. The precise
point of differentiation in some instances \is not easy of
statement. But it will be enough for present purposes to
say generally that the decisions of the court upholding
statutes as sufficiently certain, rested upon the conclusion
that they employed words or phrases having a technical
or other special meaning, well enough known to enable
those within their reach to correctly apply them, Hygrade
Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 502; Omaechevarriav. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343, 348, or a well-settled common law meaning notwithstanding an element of degree
in the definition as to which estimates might. differ, Nash
v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376; International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra,p. 223, or, as broadly stated
by Mr. Chief Justice White in United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, 92, "that, for reasons found to

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

result either from the text of thestatutes involved or the
subjects with which they dealt, a standard of some sort
was afforded." See also, Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas
(No. 1), 212 U. S. 86, 108. Illustrative cases on the other
hand are InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra,
Collins v. Kentucky, supra, and United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., supra, and cases there cited. The Cohen
Grocery Case involved the validity of § 4 of the Food
Control Act of 1917, which imposed a penalty upon any
person who should make " any unjust or unreasonable
rate or charge in handling or dealing in or with any necessaries." It was held that these words fixed no ascertainable standard of guilt, in that they forbade no specific or
definite act.
Among the cases cited in support of that conclusion is
United States v. Capital Traction Co., 34 App. D. C. 592,
where a statute making it an offense for any street railway
company to run an insufficient number of cars to accommodate passengers "without crowding," was held to be
void for uncertainty. In the course of its opinion, that
court said (pp. 596, 598):
"The statute makes it a criminal offense for the street
railway companies in the District of Columbia to run an
insufficient number of cars to accommodate persons desiring passage thereon, without crowding the same. What
shall be the guide to the court or jury in ascertaining what
constitutes a crowded car? What may be regarded, as a
crowded car by one jury may not be so considered by
another. What shall constitute a sufficient number of
cars in the opinion of one judge may be regarded as
insufficient by another. . . . There is a total absence
of any definition of what shall constitute a crowded car.
This important element cannot be left to conjecture, or
be, supplied by either the court or the jury. It is of the
very essence of the law itself, and without it the statute is
too indefinite and uncertain to support an information
or indictment.

CONNALLY v. GENERAL CONST. CO.
385

393

Opinion of the Court.

C9* . . The dividing line between what is lawful and
unlawful cannot be left to conjecture. The citizen cannot
be held to answer charges based upon penal statutes whose
mandates are so uncertain that they will reasonably admit
of different constructions. A criminal statute cannot rest
upon an uncertain foundation. The crime, and the elements constituting it, must be so clearly expressed that.
the ordinary person can intelligently choose, in advance,
what course it is lawful for him to pursue. Penal statutes
prohibiting the doing of certain things, and providing a
punishment for their violation, should not admit of such
a double meaning that the citizen may act upon the one
conception of its requirements and the courts upon
another."
In the light of these principles and decisions, then, we
come to the consideration of the legislation now under
review, requiring the contractor, at the risk of incurring
severe and cumulative penalties, to pay his employees
"not less than the current rate of per diem wages in the
locality where the work is performed."
We are of opinion that this provision presents a double
uncertainty, fatal to its validity as a criminal statute.
In the first place, the words "current rate of wages" do
not denote a specific or definite sum, but minimum, maximum and intermediate amounts, indeterminately, varying
from time to time and dependent upon the class and kind
of work done, the efficiency of the workmen, etc., as the
bill alleges is the case in respect of the territory surrounding the bridges under construction.* The statutory
phrase reasonably cannot be confined to any of these
amounts, since it imports each and all of them. The
* The commissioner's own investigation shows that wages ranged

from $3.00 to $4.05 per day; and the scale of wages paid by the
construction company to its laborers, twenty-five in number, ranged
from $3.20 to $6.50 per day, all but six of them being paid at $3.60
or more.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

"current rate of wages" is not simple but progressivefrom so much (the minimum) to so much (the maximum),
including all between; and to direct the payment of an
amount which shall not be less than one of several different amounts, without saying which, is to leave the question of what is meant incapable of any definite answer.
See People ex rel. Rodgers v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1, 24-25.
Nor can the question be solved by resort to the established canons of construction that enable a court to look
through awkward or clumsy expression, or language wanting in precision, to the intent of the legislature. For the
vice of the statute here lies in the impossibility of ascertaining, by any reasonable test, that the legislature meant
one thing rather than another, and in the futility of an'
attempt to apply a requirement, which assumes the existence of a rate of wages single in amount, to a rate in fact
composed of a multitude of gradations. To construe the
phrase "current rate of wages" as meaning either the
lowest rate or the highest rate or any intermediate rate or,,
if it were possible to determine the various factors to be ¢
considered, an average of all rates, would be as likely to
defeat the purpose of the legislature as to promote it. See
State v. Partlow, 91 N. C. 550, 553; Commonwealth v.
Bank of Pennsylvania,3 Watts & S. 173, 177.
In the second place, additional obscurity is imparted to
the statute by the use of the qualifying word "locality."
Who can say, with any degree of accuracy, what areas constitute the locality where a given piece of work is being
done? Two men moving in any direction from the place
of operations, would not be at all likely to agree upon the
point where they had passed the boundary which separated the locality of that work from the next locality. It
is said that this question is settled for us by the decision
of the criminal court of appeals on rehearing in State v.
Tibbetts, 205 Pac. 776, 779. But all the court did there
was to define the word "locality" as meaning "place."

CONNALLY v. GENERAL CONST. CO.
385

395

Opinion of the Court.

Ac" near the place," "vicinity," or "neighborhood."
is
result
cepting this as correct, as of course we do, the
choice
not to remove the obscurity, but rather to offer a
as
quite
is
"neighborhood"
of uncertainties. The word
Both
"locality."
susceptible of variation as the word
terms are elastic and, dependent upon circumstances, may
be equally satisfied by areas measured by rods or by
miles. See Schmidt v. Kansas City Distilling Co., g0 Mo.
284, 296; Woods v. Cochrane and Smith, 38 Iowa 484,
485; State ex rel. Christie v. Meek, 26 Wash. 405, 407408; Millville Imp. Co. v. Pitman, etc., Gas Co., 75 N. J.
Law 410, 412; Thomas v. Marshfield, 10 Pick. 364, 367.
The case last cited held that a grant of common to the
inhabitants of a certain neighborhood was void because
the term "neighborhood" was not sufficiently certain to
identify the grantees. In other connections or under
other conditions the term "locality" might be definite
enough, but not so in a statute such as that under review
imposing criminal penalties. Certainly, the expression
"near the place" leaves much to be desired in the way
of a delimitation of boundaries; for it at once provokes
the inquiry, "how near?" And this element of uncertainty cannot here be put aside as of no consequence, for,
as the rate of wages may vary-as in the present case it
is alleged it does vary-among different employers and
according to the relative efficiency of the workmen, so it
may vary in different sections. The result is that the application of the law depends not upon a word of fixed
meaning in itself, or one made definite by statutory or
judi6ial definition, or by the context or oth& legitimate
aid to its construction, but upon the probably varying impressions of juries as to whether given areas are or are not
to be included within particular localities. The constitutional guaranty of due process cannot be allowed to rest
upon a support so equivocal.
Interlocutory decree affirmed.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concur

in the result on the ground that the plaintiff was not violating the statute by any criterion available in the vicinity of Cleveland.
PERRY BROWNING ET AL. v. E. M. HOOPER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 256.

Argued November 17, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A Texas statute authorizes fifty property taxpaying voters, by
petition to the ommissioners' court of a county, to designate territory of which they are residents within the county as a road district and the amount of bonds to be issued for road improvements
within the district, not to exceed one-fourth of the assessed value
of real property therein, whereupon it becomes the duty of the commissioners' court to order an election in the district, as so described,
for the purpose of determining whether the bonds in the amount
named in the petition shall be issued and whether a tax shall be
levied upon the property of the district for their payment; and if
two-thirds of the votes at such election favor the proposition, the
commissioners' court is required to issue and sell the bonds and
levy a tax sufficient to pay them as they mature, by assessments
on the same valuation, and which become liens and may be enforced
in the same manner, as state and county taxes. Held, (a) that
assessments so authorized and levied were special assessments for
local improvements, not general taxes; (b) that a district so created
could not be regarded as one created by the legislature, even though
coincident in boundaries with two adjacent "commissioners' precincts "; (c) that the assessments were not legislative assessments.
P. 403.
2. Where a special improvement district is not crated by the legislature or a municipality to which the State has graxkted full legislative powers over the subject, and where there has beel. no legislative
determination that the property to be assessed for the improvement
will be benefited thereby, it is essential to due process of law that
the property owner be given notice and an opportunity to be heard
on the question of benefits. P. 405.
3 Fed. (2d) 160, reversed.

