DONEGAN v. DYSON.
42

Syllabus.

in the judicial sale of the entire capital stock of the
Buckeye Company, and which, as against them, have been
adjudged valid by the courts of Ohio. The United States,
which must alone speak for the public interest, does not
appear with them on this appeal. They have therefore no
locus standi. United States v. Northern Securities Co.,
128 Fed. 868.
Underneath all these reasons for dismissing the appeal;
is the fundamental objection that these coal companies
presented no case upon their petition justifying their intervention. The' were not parties to the original suit.
Their interest was not of persons who had suffered by the
original combination made the subject of the main decree,
who might have had relief under the 16th section of the
amendment to the Anti-Trust Act, October 15, 1914, c.
323, 38 St. 730. They were really put forward as intervening parties in the interest of Jones, the purchaser at the
judicial sale of all their stock through which he continues
to manage them. His, and therefore their, only claim to
be heard at all must be based on the decree confirming
the purchase, part of the, consideration for which, as approved by the court, they now seek to impeach.
Decree affirmed.
DONEGAN v. DYSON, U. S. MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 185.

Motion submitted October 5, 1925.-Decided November
16, 1925.

1. In view of the saving clause in the Act of October 22, 1913, abolishing the Commerce Court, that Act did not repeal § 201, Judicial
Code, providing that the 6ircuit judges appointed to the Commerce
Court, when designated and assigned by the Chief Justice of the
United States for service in a district court or circuit court of ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

peals, shall have the powers and jurisdiction conferred in the Code
upon a circuit judge in his circuit. P. 53.
2. Jud. Code § 201 gives the Chief Justice full discretion, without
further designation by any other judge under § 18, as amended
Sept. 14, 1922, to vest in a commerce court circuit judge full au-

thority to act as judge of the district court specified in the
designation. Id.
1 Fed. (2d) 63, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court in a
habeas corpus proceeding remanding the appellant to
custody. See also 296 Fed. 843; 265 U. S. 585. The case
is decided on a motion to dismiss or affirm.

Messrs. Alexander Akerman and W. M. Toomer were
on the brief, for appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant to the Attorney
General Donovan were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment in a habeas corpus
case remandiig the petitioner. It is brought under § 238
of the Judicial Code, on the ground that it involves the
construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States.
March 5, 1919, Donegan was indicted in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Florida,
in the Tampa Division, charged with the offense ofiinisapplication and abstraction of funds of a National Bank
in violation of the banking laws of the United States. At
a subsequent term he was tried, convicted and sentenced
to a term of three years' imiprisonment in the Atlanta
Penitentiary. On a writ of error his conviction was
affirmed by the Circuit Couft of, Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit. He applied for a writ of certiorari in this Court,
which was denied. -265 U. S. 585. While in the custody

DONEGAN v. DYSON.
49

51

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States marshal, after the coming down of
the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals, he filed this
petition for the writ of habeas corpus. The ground for
the petition is that United States Circuit Judge Julian W.
Mack, who presided in the cause in which the petitioner
was convicted, had no power or jurisdiction to act as judge
in the District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
Judge Mack, as the petition avers, was one of the five
additional United States circuit judges appointed at the
time of the creation of the Court of Commerce, by virtue
of the Act of June 18, 1910, 36 St. 539, c. 309. The petition sets out the designation in accord with which Judge
Mack sat:
"Honorable Julian W. Mack,
United States Circuit Judge,
New York, N. Y.
"Sir:
"The Senior Circuit Judge of the Fifth Circuit having
certified that on account of the accumulation and urgency.
of business in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Florida, it would be a great public
advantage if you could be assigned to service in said District Court, and your consent in writing to be designated
and appointed to serve in said District Court having been
duly signed and exhibited to me, now, therefore, pursuant
to the authority vested in me by section 201 of the Judicial
Code of the United States as amended by the act of Congress approved October 22, 1913, I do hereby designate
and assign you for service in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Florida, during
the period commencing January 20, 1923, and ending
March 31, 1923, and for such further time as may be
required to complete unfinished business.
"Dated January 11th, 1923, Washington, D. C.
WM. H. TAFT,
Chief Justice of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Coutt.

269 U. S.

It is said that this designation was without authority of
law and, therefore, that the proceeding in the District
Court against the petitioner was coram non judice, and
his conviction and present custody in pursuance thereof
are without due process of law, in violation of the Fifth
Amendment.
The original Act creating the Commerce Court had this
provision (36 Stat. 541, c. 309):
"If, at any time, the business of the commerce court
does not require the services of all the judges, the Chief
Justice of the United States may, by writing, signed by
him and filed in the Department of Justice, terminate the
assignment of any of the judges or temporarily assign him
for service in any circuit court or circuit court of appeals."
When, by the Judicial Code, the circuit courts were
abolished (36 St. 1087), and in Chapter 13 the powers of
the circuit courts were conferred upon the district courts,
§§ 291 and 292 of that chapter provided:
"Sec. 291. Wherever, in any law not embraced within
this Act, any reference is made to, or any power or duty
is conferred or imposed upon, the circuit courts, such
reference shall, upon the taking effect of this Act, be
deemed and held to refer to, and to confer such power and
impose such duty upon, the district courts."
"Sec. 292. Wherever, in any law not contained within
this Act, a reference ismade to any law revised or embraced herein, such reference, upon the taking effect
hereof, shall be construed to refer to the section of this
Act into which has been carried or revised the provision
of law to which reference is so made."
In addition to these provisions, § 201 of the Judicial
Code provided expressly as follows (36 Stat. 1087, 1147) :
"Sec. 201. The five additional circuit judges authorized
by the Act to create a Commerce Court, and for other
purposes, approved June eighteenth, nineteen hundred
'and ten, shall hold office during good behavior, and from

DONEGAN v. DYSON.
49

Opinion of the Court.

time to time shall be designated and assigned by the Chief
Justice of the United States for service in the district court
of any district, or the circuit court of appeals for any circuit, or in the Commerce Court, and when so designated
and assigned for service in a district court or circuit court
of appeals shall have the powers and jurisdictionin this
Act conferred upon a circuit judge in his circuit."
The Commerce Court was abolished by the Act of
October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219. While the court
was abolished, no attempt was made to abolish the offices
of the judges. More than that, there was this special
saving clause in the Act abolishing the Commerce Court,
38 Stat. 219:
"Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to affect
the tenure of any of the judges now acting as circuit
judges by appointment under the terms of said Act, but
such judges shall continue to act under assignment, as in
the said Act provided, as judges of the district courts and
circuit courts of appeals."
The contention is, first, that §§ 200 to 206 of the
Judicial Code, which incorporated the provisions of the
Act establishing the Commerce Court, were necessarily
repealed by the Act of October 22, 1913, taking effect
December 31, 1913. In view of the raving clause of that
Act, we think this view quite untenable, and that § 201
was entirely saved in its application.
It is then submitted that, even if § 201 was saved, the
circuit judge surviving the Court of Commerce is a judge
without a circuit and that, when assigned to the Fifth
Circuit or any other circuit, he goes to the circuit as pro
tempore a judge of that circuit, and has only the powers
and jurisdiction of such circuit judge provided in § 201,
which are the powers and jurisdiction conferred in the
Judicial Code "upon a circuit judge in his circuit."
Now it is said that a regularly appointed circuit judge in
a circuit can exercise power and jurisdiction in a district

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

court of his circuit only after designation and assignment
by the circuit justice of his judicial circuit, or by the senior
circult judge thereof, in accordance with the language of
§ 18, which is, as amended September 14, 1922 (42 Stat.
837, ch. 306):
"Section 5. The Chief Justice of the United States or
the Circuit Justice, in any judicial circuit, or the Senior
Circuit Judge thereof, may, if the public interest requires,
designate and assign any Circuit Judge of a judicial circuit
to hold a district court within such circuit."
The reference to the Chief Justice, it is said, is to him
only as a circuit justice in the circuit to which he is
allocated by order of the Court; and that, at the time,
was the 4th circuit, not the 5th. It is urged, therefore,
that, after the Chief Justice had under § 201 assigned
this former commerce court circuit judge to the 5th circuit, it was, in addition, necessary that the circuit justice
of the 5th circuit, or the senior circuit judge of that circuit,
should then assign him as a pro tempore circuit judge of
the 5th circuit to the particular district court of that
circuit in which he was to exercise the duties of a district
judge. We think such reasoning is making complex a
very simple statute and going out of the way to create
confusion. Section 201 gives to the Chief Justice full
discretion, without further designation by any other
judge, to vest in a commerce court circuit judge full
authority directly to act as judge either in a particular
district court or in the circuit court of appeals of any
circuit, and the designation of Judge Mack in this case
was ample for the purpose. We thus do not think it
necessary to consider whether, even if the designation had
not been valid, the sitting judge should be regarded as
a judge de facto whose authority could not be questioned
in a collateral attack, like a proceeding in habeas corpus.
No question has been made whether the appeal really
involves the construction or application of the Federal

OLD DOMINION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
49

55

Syllabus.

Constitution, such that if the construction contended for
were correct and the judge were sitting without warrant,
the trial would be without due process of law. We have
assumed that for the purposes of the decision, and also
that the question could be raised on habeas corpus.
The action of the District Court in dismissing the petition and remanding the prisoner is
Affirmed.
OLD DOMINION LAND COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOIR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT,

No. 55.

Argued October 16, 1925.-Decided Novembei 16, 1925.

1. The general purpose of a statute to authorize acquisition of property only to carry out existing agreements of the Government, will
not control a specific provision therein for the acquisition of property specifically mentioned, as to which there was no agreement.
Act of March 8, 1922, c. 100, § 1, 42 Stat. 418. P. 63.
2. The United States erected costry buildings on land which it leased
during the war, and, after expiration of the term, began proceedings
to condemn the land on the last day of a period allowed by the
lease for removing improvements. Held that the buildings were
the property of the United States -and not to be considered in
fixing the land owners' compensation. P. 65.
3. Therefore, the Act of March 8, 1922, supra, in excluding compensation for such improvements on the land in question, is not
unconstitutional. Id.
4. Whether the purpose of saving the loss of buildings erected on
leased land by the Government maybe a public purpose justifying
condemnation of the land, is not here decided. P. 66.
5. Although the purpose moving the Secretary of War to request
condemnation proceedings nay not be a public one, yet, if the
authorizing Act import an implied declaration of purpose by
Congress to acquire the land for military uses, which are public,
this must be accepted, if not shown to involve an impossibility.
P. 66.

