MARGOLIN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Petitioner.

MARGOLIN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 254.

Argued October 5, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. Section 13 of the War Risk Insurance Act, as amended May 20,
1918, forbids an attorney to charge more than three dollars for
any services rendered a beneficiary in respect of a claim under the
Act for insurance on the life of a deceased soldier, when no action
in court is instituted; and makes the violation of this prohibition a
misdemeanor. P. 101.
2. So construed, the section is not in conflict with the Fifth Amendment. Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U. S. 170. Id.
3. Disregard of the plain language of a statute can not be justified
by reports of the committees in Congress which recommended the
bill, or by communications from the head of a Department incorporated in the reports. Id.
3 Fed. (2d) 602, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a sentence imposed by the District Court
on the petitioner for receiving a fee of $1500 as compensation for services in preparing and presenting to the
Veterans' Bureau a claim for insurance money under the
War Risk Insurance Act.
Miss Susan Brandeis and Mr. Benjamin S. Kirsh, for
petitioner.
The reports of the House and Senate committees accompanying the Bill, prior to enactment, and the communication of the Secretary of the Treasury, incorporated
therein, establish, beyond doubt, that the limitation of
$3.00 "for such assistance as may be required in the preparation and execution of the necessary papers" applies
only to the clerical work of filling out a form. The trial
judge and the Circuit Court of Appeals therefore erroneously construed the provisions of the Act in deciding that

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

269 U. S.

a greater charge than $3.00 for useful, elaborate, and successful investigation and preliminary professional services
was within the criminal prohibition of the statute. The
reports of the committees are an important, and, indeed,
a controlling aid in the construction of the statute. The
intention of Congress with respect to the conduct prohibited under the enactment can be learned by reverting
to the circumstances of the enactment. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S_ 495; Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443;
Woodward v. De Graifenried, 238 U. S. 284; Ozawa v.
United States, 260 U. S. 178; Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 457.
The criminal ,statute must be construed strictly against
the Government, and liberally in favor of the petitioner.
Effect must be given to every portion of the statute. A
construction which renders part of the Act contradictory
and repugnant to another must be ayoided. The court is
under a duty to construe the statute so, as to render it
harmonious and consistent in its entirety. The words
"Except as -herein provided " forbid merely "a charge
for the particular services therein specified in excess of
the limitations therein fixed." United States v. Rodgers,
D. C. West Virginia, unreported. The limitation of compensation in the case of filling in of an affidavit of clim
and in case of a law suit are the only two cases" herein
provided." Elaborate investigation work and the dis,.
covery of facts upon which the claim is based are not provided for in the statute, and are not within the criminal
prohibition of the Act. They are a subject matter upon
which the Director of Wfr Risk Insurance, in the absence
ofa prohibition upon his general powers, could properly
announce rules and regulations. Sinice there is a limitation only on the Director's power with respect to the two
specific items of filling in the. form .and the suit, there is
no, violation of the law by the petitioner in charging more
than $3.00 for*the comprehensive and useful professional

MARGOLIN v. UNITED STATES.
93

Argument for Petitioner.

services which he rendered to his client. The phrase" that
,no claim agent or attorney shall be recognized in the presentation or adjudication of claims," is merely a limitation upon the power of an attorney or claim agent to represent the beneficiary, and is restricted to " presentation "
and "adjudication."
It does not render investigation
work criminal.
A criminal statute must receive a reasonable, rational,
and sensible construction in preference to one that is
absurd, arbitrary, and unreasonable. The terms of the
Act must be construed with relation to its object .and the
evils it was designed to remedy. The letter of the law
must yield to the policy and spirit in order to avoid absurd
consequences. The enormously disproportionate penalty
prescribed by the statute, in contrast to the acts for which
the petitioner was convicted, is another clear indication
that the statute was designed to prohibit solely fraudulent,
outrageous, and scandalous practices. The contrast in
the wording of the prohibitions with respect to employment and compensation of attorneys contained in prior
statutes, and the Act of May 20, 1918, under which the
petitioner was convicted, clearly indicates that there was
no criminal prohibition against the petitioner's charge for
preliminary investigation work.
If the Act be construed so as to render criminal the
receipt by an attorney of a sum in excess of $3.00, for
elaborate and useful investigation work, and to nullify and
make illegal an agreement between a client and the attorney for fair and just compensation in the investigation
of a contract claim against the Government, it is oppressive, arbitrary, and unreasonable legislation, and in violation of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States. Congress has no constitutional power to
attach onerous and burdensome conditions, and to destroy
contracts relating to -the enforcement of a remedy, arising from private contract based upon a consideration, and

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

269 U. S.

not a pension, bounty or other gratuity of the Government. By making void, illegal, and criminal the
receipt of any adequate or appropriate fee by an attorney for the discovery of facts, ne investigation of
a claim, and any professional services, falling short,
of an actual judgment, in connection with a contract of insurance, Congress is, by legislative fiat,
impairing the remedy it has granted to the client, and
deprives the attorney, who has entered into a contract
with the client for the effective enforcement of the remedy,
of his liberty and property in violation of hia constitutional rights. The effect of this legislation is to withdraw
as a source of professional services, an extensive and lucrative field of practice, from which an attorney's professional
work is derived. If this Act be held constitutional, like
restrictions may be extended into every field in which the
United States engages in a proprietary and business function. A capricious embargo by Congress against markets
of a merchant is no more a deprivation of property than
prohibiting an attorney from handling a class of cases
which, but for the ipse dixit of Congress, would yield a
profitable source of income. See dissenting opinion in
Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U. S. 170; Adkins v. Children's
Hospital, 261 U. S. 525; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1;
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Frisbie v. United
States, 157 U. S. 160; United States v. Hall, 98 U. S. 343;
Ball v. Halsell, 161 U. S. 72; Kendall v. United States, 7
113.
Wall.
. Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U. S. 170, does not control the
case'at bar-for several reasons. It does not appear from
the facts that the Omnibus Claims Act, considered there,
was anything other than a moral, or gratuitous, assumption by the Government of a claim, where there was no
legal obligation. There were further, as the majority
opinion states, " special reasons " to the effect that no appropriation had been made by Congress. Finally, there

MARGOLIN v. UNITED STATES.
93

Opinion of the Court.

was not under consideration in that case the meagre and
paltry fee of $3.00. but an adequate and liberal sum of
20% of the recovery. We would also state to the Court
that the citation of the Act of June 12th, 1917, in the foot
note in the opinion in that case, in so far as it is an indication of the constitutionality of certain generic enactments,
is irrelevant in this case, because the Act of June 12th,
1917, dealt only with compensation and payments in the
nature of pensions, and not with contracts of insurance
discussed in the case at bar. Bearing in mind the effort
of an attorney in a case of this character, and the total
lack of compensation in the case of unsuccessful endeavor,
we may well justify a charge of $1,500.00 as an attorney's
fee for the collection of a, sum, which will amount in the
aggregate, to the sum of $12,360.00. The charge made of
$1,500.00 also included hotel bills, railroad fares, and
disbursements of various descriptions. Taylor v. Bemiss,
110 U. S.42.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely,
Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered- the opinion of the
Court.
An Act of Congress approved September 2, 1914, c.
293, 38 Stat. 711, provided for a Bureau of War Risk Insurance in the Treasury Department, directed it to insure
American vessels, their freight, passage money andcargoes
against war risks, and further authorized it to prescribe
necessary rules and regulations. This was amended June
12, 1917, c. 26, 40 Stat. 102, so as to provide insurance for
masters, officers and crews of American vessels; and the
following new section was added"Sec. 5a. No claim agent or attorney shall be entitled to
receive any compensation whatever for services in the

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

collection of claims against the Bureau of War Risk Insurance for death, personal injury, or detention, except
when proceedings are taken in accordance with section five
in a district court of the United States, in which case the
judge shall, as a part of his determination and order, settle
and determine the amount of compensation not to exceed
ten per centum of amount recovered, to be paid by the
claimant on behalf of whom such proceedings are instituted to his legal adviser or advisers, and it shall be unlawful for any lawyer or other person acting in that behalf
to ask for, contract for, or receive any larger sum than
the amount so fixed."
An Act approved October 6, 1917, c. 105, 40 Stat. 398,
again amended the original Act, provided for Divisions
of Marine and Seamen's Insurance and of Military and
Naval Insurance, made definite provision for insuring
members of the military and navaj forces, and added
another new section"See. 13. That the director, subject to the general direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall administer,
execute, and enforce the provisions of this Act, and for
that purpose have full power and authority to make rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, necessary or appropriate to carry out its purposes, and shall decide all questions arising under the Act,
except as otherwise provided in sections five and four
hundred and five. Wherever under any provision or provision's of the Act regulations are directed or authorized
to be made, such regulations, unless the context otherwise
requires, shall or may be made by the director, subject to
the general direction of the Secretary of the Treasury.
The director shall adopt reasonable and proper rules to
govern the procedure of the divisions, to regulate the
matter of the compensation, if any, but in no case to exceed ten per centum, to be paid to claim agents and attorneys for services in connection with any of the matters

MARGOLIN v. UNITED STATES.
93

Opinion of the Court.

provided for in articles two, three, and four, and to regulate and provide for the nature and extent of the proofs
and evidence and the method of taking and furnishing the
same in order to establish the right to benefits of allowance, allotment, compensation, or insurance provided for
in this Act, the forms of application of those claiming to
be entitled to such benefits, the method of making investigations and medical examinations, and the manner
and form of adjudications and awards."
An Act approved May 20, 1918, c. 77, 40 Stat. 555,
amended See. 13, above quoted, so that it should provide"Sec. 13. That the director, subject to the general direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall administer,
execute, and enforce the provisions of this Act, and for
that purpose have full power and authority to make rules
and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, necessary or appropriate to carry out its purposes,
and shall decide all questions arising under the Act, except
as otherwise provided in section five. Wherever under
any provision or provisions of the Act regulations are directed or authorized to be made, such regulations, unless
the context otherwise requires, shall or may be made by
the director, subject to the general direction of the Secretary of the Treasury. The director shall adopt reasonable and proper rules to govein the procedure of the divisions and to regulate and provide for the nature and extent of the proofs and evidence and the method of taking
and furnishing the same in order to establish the right to
benefits of allowance, allotment, compensation, or insurance provided for in this Act, the forms of application
of those claiming to be entitled to such benefits, the
methods of making investigations and medical examinations, and the manner and form of adjudications and
awards: Provided, however, That payment to any attorney or agent for such assistance as may be required
in the preparation and execution of the necessary papers

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

shall not exceed $3 in any one case: And providedfurther,
That no claim agent or attorney shall be recognized in
the presentation or adjudication of claims under articles
two, three, and four, except that in the event of disagreement as to a claim under the contract of insurance between the bureau and any beneficiary or beneficiaries
thereunder an action on the claim may be brought against
the United States in the district court of the United
States in and for the district in which such beneficiaries
or any one of them resides,. and that whenever judgment
shall be rendered in an action brought pursuant to this
provision the court, as part of its judgment, shall determine and allow such reasonable attorney's fees, not to
exceed five per gentum of the amount recovered, to be
paid by the claimant in behalf of whom such proceedings
were instituted to his attorney, said fee to be paid out of
the payments to be made to the beneficiary under the
judgment rendered at a rate not exceeding one-tenth of
each of such payments until paid.
"Any person who shall, directly or indirectly, solicit,
contract for, charge, or receive, or who shall attempt to
solicit, contract for, charge, or receive any fee or compensation, except as herein provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and for each and every offense shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment
at hard labor for not more than two years, or by both such
fine a'nd imprisonment."
An Act approved August 9, 1921, c. 57, 42 Stat. 147,
provided for the establishment of the Veterans' Bureau,
with "the functions, powers and duties conferred by existing law upon the Bureau of War Risk Insurance."
Petitioner was found guilty under an indictment
which
charged that he unlawfully received fifteen hundred
dollars as a fee and compensation for services in preparing
and presenting to the United States Veterans' Bureau an
affidavit executed by Yetta Cohen in support of her claim

MARGOLIN v. UNITED STATES.
93

Opinioa of the Court.

for insurance money provided for by the Act approved
October 6, 1917, and amendments thereto. The trial court
imposed a fine of two hundred and fifty dollars and its
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
3 Fed. (2d 602.
It appears that Yetta Cohen retained petitioner, a member of the bar, to press allowance of her claim as a beneficiary designated in a policy issued to her nephew under
the War Risk Insurance Act. He corresponded with the
Veterans' Bureau, made one trip from New York to
Washington, where he examined records and interviewed
officials, and prepared the necessary papers. It may be
assumed that his services were useful and of some substantial value. For them he demanded two thousand
dollars and received fifteen hundred. The exceptions raise
the questions whether § 13, Act of May 20, 1918, forbids
an attorney from charging more than three dollars for any
services rendered a beneficiary in respect of a claim under
the War Risk Insurance Act when no action in court has
been instituted; and whether, if so construed, that section
offends the Fifth Amendment.
Petitioner claims that the inhibition against receiving
aiy sum greater than three dollars relates solely to the
clerical work of filling out the form or affidavit of claim,
and does not apply to useful investigation and preparatory
work such as he did. He insists that this view is supported by the reports of the committees of the Senate and
House of Representatives, which recommended passage
of the bill; also by a communication from the Secretary
of the Treasury, incorporated therein. See S. Rep. 429
and H. Rep. 471, 65th Cong., 2d Sess.
We find no reason which would justify disregard of the
plain language of the section under consideration. It
declares that any person who receives a fee or compensation in respect of a claim under the Act except as therein
provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

only compensation which it permits a claim agent or attorney to receive where no legal proceeding has been commenced is three dollars for assistance in preparation and
execution of necessary papers. And the history of the
enactment indicates plainly enough that Congress did not
fail to choose apt language to express its purpose.
The validity of § 13 construed as above indicated, we
think, is not open to serious doubt. Calhoun v. Massie,
253 U. S. 170.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

took no part in the considera-

tion or determination of this cause.
WOERISHOFFER
APPEAL

No. 11.

EXECUTORS v. UNITED
STATES.

ET AL.,

FROM

THE

COURT

OF

CLAIMS.

Argued October 7, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. Upon the facts recited in the opinion, held,
(a) That certain legacy taxes, assessed under § 29 of the Spanish
War Revenue Act, *were "imposed" prior to July 1, 1902, within
the saving clause of the repealing Act, c. 500, § 7, 32 Stat. 96, although the formal assessment by the Treasury Department was
not made before that date. Cochran v. United States, 254 U. S.
387. P. 109.
(b) That interests of residuary legatees in a portion of the estate
not distributed prior to July 1, 1902, were not contingent beneficial
interests not absolutely vested in possession or enjoyment prior to
July 1, 1902, within the meaning of § 3 of the Act of June 27, 1902,
c. 1160, 32 Stat. 406. Kahn v. United States, 257 U. S.244; Simpson v. United States, 252 U. S.547. P. 109.
2. Where the Court of Claims overruled, without prejudice, a demurrer to the petition, and ordered the testimony limited to certain features of the case, objection to the making of the order, or
to the findings of fact covering the entire case, should have been
made in that court, as a basis for objection in this court on appeal.
P. 109.
58 Ct. Cls. 410, affirmed.

