IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.

459

Syllabus.

443

ferror, were not subject to the tax; and the Department
has consistently ruled thAt they were. See T. D. Regulations 40.
As already indicated, the borrowing of stock and the
returning of borrowed stock do not fall within the description of those classes of transactions expressly exempted
from the tax. Nor do they so resemble them in a popular
and non-technical sense as to warrant their inclusion
among the exceptions. Even in a loose and colloquial
sense it cannot be said that the loan of stock is a "deposit
of stock certificates as collateral security for money loaned
thereon." We therefore conclude that while there is no
indication of a purpose to impose a discriminatory tax
upon short sales or transactions necessarily involved in
short sales, there was a general purpose to tax all transfers
of legal ownership of shares of stock which includes those
made necessary in order to complete a short sale. It follows that they are subject to the tax imposed upon the
class of transactions in which they are included.
Judgment affirmed.
INDEPENDENT WIRELESS TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE

_ECOND CIRCUIT.

Argued October 23, 1925.-Decided January 11, 1926.
1. A suit by an exclusive licensee under a patent to protect his rights
against infringement by a stranger, without joining the patentowner as plaintiff, does not arise under the patent laws (Rev.
Stats. § 4921) but is based merely on contract rights, and is not
maintainable in the federal court in the absence of diversity of
citizenship. P. 466.
2. An exclusive licensee may bring suit under Rev. Stats. § 4921
by joining the patent-owner as a co-plaintiff, when the latter is
out of the jurisdiction and declines to join, and when such suit is
No. 87.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

necessary to protect the rights of the licensee against an infringer,
so that a failure of justice might result if such joinder were not
allowed. Pp. 467, 472.
3. This is analogous to the right of the licensee to bring an action on
the case for damages in the patent owner's name, under Rev. Stats.
§ 4919, which is in pari materia with § 4921. Pp. 464, 472.
4. A patent-owner is under an equitable obligation to allow the use
of his name and title to protect lawful exclusive licensees against
infringers. P. 473.
5. A patent-owner can not thus be made a co-plaintiff in equity
without having first been requested to become such voluntarily.
P. 473.
6. When a patent-owner, though requested, declines to permit the
use of his name in a proper case by an exclusivd licensee in a suit
against an infringer, but is nevertheless joined as co-plaintiff and
duly notified of the suit, he will be bound by the decree. P. 474.
297 Fed. 521, affirmed.
•

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

.which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing
on motion the bill in a suit to enjoin infringement of a
patent, and for an accounting of profits and for damages.
See 297 Fed. 518.

Mr. William H. Davis, for petitioner.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. James J. Cosgrove

was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Radio Corporation, a corporation of Delaware, filed
a bill in equity in the Southern District of New York,
joining with itself the De Forest Radio Telephone & Telegraph Company, also of Delaware, as co-plaintiff, against
the Independent Wireless Telegraph Company, of Delaware, and the American Telepxhone & Telegraph Company, of New York. The case made in the bill was this:

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
459

461

Opinion of the Court.

Lee De Forest invented and received patents Nos.
841387 and 879532, dated in 1908 and 1909, for devices
for amplifying feeble electric currents and certain new and
useful improvements in space telegraphy. After giving
limited licenses to the American Telephone & Telegraph
Company, he assigned the patents to the De Forest Radio
Telephone and Telegraph Company. On March 16, 1917,
the De Forest Company, by writing duly recorded, gave
an exclusive license to make, use and sell the devices for
the life of the patents to the Western Electric Company,
reserving to itself non-exclusive, non-transferable and
personal rights to make, use and sell them for defined
purposes. The Western Electric Company then assigned
all that it thus received from the De Forest Company to
the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. The
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, on July 1,
1920, made a contract with the General Electric Company, by which they exchanged rights in various patents
owned or controlled by each, including these rights in the
De Forest patents. Some seven months prior, on November 20, 1919, the General Electric Company had granted
to the Radio Corporation, the plaintiff, an exclusive
license to use and. sell for "radio purposes," i. e., "for
transmission or reception of communication by what are
known as electric magnetic waves except by wire," all
inventions owned by the General Electric Company or
thereafter acquired by it. The American Telephone and
Telegraph Company subsequently confirmed in the Radio
Corporation these after-acquired rights in the De Forest
patents. Thus there came from the De Forest Company
to the Radio Corporation, exclusive rights to use and sell
in the United States, for radio purposes, apparatus for
transmission of messages, and especially for use between
ship and shore for pay.
The defendant, the Independent Wireless Company,
has bought the same apparatus with the lawful right to
use it in the amateur and experimental field only. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

apparatus thus bought bears a label with such a limitation
on its use. The charge in the bill is that the Independent
Company is using the apparatus, or the part of it called
"radio tubes," in the commercial radio field between ship
and shore for pay and thus is violating the Radio Corporation's rights in this field. An injunction is prayed and
an accounting of profits and all damages to the plaintiffs
and the American Telephone and Telegraph Company
as their interests shall appear.
The twenty-fifth averment of the bill is that "the
plaintiff, the De Forest Radio Telephone & Telegraph
Company, as hereinbefore alleged, has certain rights in
the patents in suit herein; that before filing this bill of
complaint, said De Forest Radio Telephone & Telegraph
Company, was requested to consent to join, as a coplaintiff, herein, but declined; that said De Forest Radio
Telephone & Telegraph Company is not within the jurisdiction of the Court and therefore can not be made a
defendant herein; and that therefore to prevent a failure
of justice, and to enable the plaintiff Radio Corporation
of America to protect its exclusive rights under the patents in suit, said De Forest Radio Telephone & Telegraph
Company, is made a plaintiff herein without its consent."
After securing an order for a bill of particulars, compliance with which disclosed the various agreements referred to in the bill and facts relevant thereto, the Independent Wireless Telegraph Company, defendant, moved
that the court dismiss the bill of complaint, upon the
following ground:
"That the De Forest Radio Telephone & Telegraph
Company, the owner of the patent in suit, has not joined
in this litigation as a party plaintiff by duly signing and
verifying the bill of complaint herein, and the plaintiff
Radio Corporation of America is not such a licensee under
the patents as to permit it to sue alone in its own name,
in the name of the owner of the patents in suit, or to

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
459

463

Opinion of the Court.

sue in the name of the owner of the patents joining itself
as a licensee under the patents."
The District Court sustained the motion and dismissed the bill, in the view that it was bound by decisions
of this Court to hold that the De Forest Company was
the owner of the patent and an indispensable party and,
being out of the jurisdiction, could not be made a party
defendant by service or joined as a party plaintiff against
its will. 297 Fed. 518. The Circuit Court of Appeals on
appeal reversed the District Court, held that the De
Forest Company was properly made co-plaintiff by the
Radio Corporation, and remanded the case for further proceedings. 297 Fed. 521. We have brought the case here
on certiorari. Section 240, Judicial Code.
The respondent in its argument to sustain the ruling
of the Circuit Court of Appeals presses two points. The
first is that by the contract between the De Forest Company and the Western Electric Company title to the patent was vested in the Western Electric Company and
from it by assignment in the American Telephone & Telegraph Company; that the latter is a party defendant, having declined to be a plaintiff, and so satisfies the requirement of the presence in such a suit, as a party, of the
owner of the patent. The difficulty the respondent meets
in this suggestion is that its bill avers that what the
American Telephone & Telegraph Company acquired
from the De Forest Company was a license, so called in
the contract creating it, and the making of the De Forest
Company a party plaintiff to the bill was necessarily on
the theory that it, and not the American Telephone and
Telegraph Company, is the owner of the patent. The
contracts between the corporations involved in the transfer of rights under the patent are long and complicated
and in order to be fully understood require some knowledge of the new radio field. The Court is loath to depart,
if it could, -from the theory on which the bill was framed
and both courts have acted, unless required to do so.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

The question for our consideration then is, Can the
Radio Company make the De Forest Company a coplaintiff against its will under the circumstances of the
case?
Section 4919, R. S., is as follows:
"Damages for the infringement of any patent may
be recovered by action on the case, in the name of the
party interested, either as patentee, assignee, or grantee.
And whenever in any such action a verdict is rendered
for the plaintiff, the court may enter judgment thereon
for any sum above the amount found by the verdict as the
actual damages sustained, according to the circumstances
of the case, not exceeding three times the amount of such
verdict, together with the costs."
In Goodyear v. Bishop, 10 Fed. Cases, 642, Case No.
5558, a suit for damages for infringement had been
brought in the name of the patentee by a licensee under
the '14th section of the Patent Act of 1836, c. 357, 5 Stat.
357, which contained language similar to § 4919. The
defendant moved with the consent of the patentee to
discontinue the suit. It was contended- that, as the
patentee had stipulated with the licensee to sue infringers, his remedy was on the covenant. Mr. Justice Nelson at the Circuit denied the motion. He said that a
suit at law to protect the patent right was properly
brought in the name of the patentee, that the license
was sufficient to give the protection sought, and that
the covenant by the patentee did not take from the
licensee the remedy by use of the patentee's name to proceed directly against the wrongdoer. The same ruling
was made in Goodyear v. McBurney, 10 Fed. Case 699,
Case No. 5574.
These cases were decided in 1860 by a Justice of this
Court, a'd no case is cited to us questioning their authority. Indeed the cases have been since referred to a number of times with approval by distinguished patent judges.

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
459

465

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Blatchford, while Circuit Judge, in Nelson v.
McMann, 17 Fed. Cases, 1325, 1329, Case No. 10109; Mr.
Justice Gray, while Chief Justice of the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, in Jackson V. Allen, 120 Mass.
64, 77; Judge Lowell in Wilson v. Chickering, 14 Fed.
917, 918; Judge Shipman in Brush Swan Company v.
Thompson Company, 48 Fed. 224, 226. The terms
"action on the case" and the phrase "in the name of
the party in interest, either as. patentee, assignee or
grantee " in § 4919 were evidently construed to constitute
a remedy at law like the suit at common law on a chose
in action in the name of the assignor in which the assignment give the assignee the right as attorney of the
assignor to use the latter's name. Lectures on Legal History, Ames, 213. See also. Eastman v. Wright, 6 Pick.
312, 316; Pickford v. Ewington, 4 Dowling P. C. 458;
McKinney v. Alvis, 14 Ill. 33.
But § 4919 applied by its terms only to actions on the
case at law to which the licensee was not a necessary and
hardly a proper party. This is a bill in equity. The remedy for violation of an exclusive licensee's interest in
equity under the patent laws is found in § 4921, R. S.,
which is as follows:
"The several courts vested with jurisdiction of cases
arising under the patent laws shall have power to grant
injunctions according to the course and principles of
courts of equity, to prevent the violation of any right
secured by patent, on such terms as the court may deem
reasonable; and upon a decree being rendered in any such
case for an infringement the complainant shall be entitled
to recover, in addition to the profits to be accounted for
by the defendant, the damages the complainant has sustained thereby; and the court shall assess the same or cause
the same to be assessed under its direction. And the
court shall have the same power to increase such damages, in its-discretion, as is given to increase the damages

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

found by verdicts in actions in the nature of actions of
trespass upon the case." *
There is no express authority given to the licensee to use
the name of the patent-owner in equity as we have seen
that he can under § 4919 in suits at law. The presence of
the patentee or his assignee in the equity suit however,
it has been held, is just as essential to obtaining an injunction or an accounting of profits or damages under the
patent laws as it is in an action on the case for damages
at law. Indeed both the owner and the exclusive licensee
are generally necessary parties in the action in equity.
Waterman v. .ackenzie, 138 U. S. 252; Littlefield v.
Perry, 21 Wall. 205, 223; Paper Bag Cases, 105 U. S.
766; Birdsell v. Shaliol, 112 U. S. 485, 486.
It is urged on behalf of the respondent that in equity
the real party in interest, the exclusive licensee whose
contract rights are being trespassed upon by the infringer,
should be able without the presence of the owner of the
patent to obtain an injunction and damages directly
against the infringer. We recognize that there is a tendency in courts of equity to enjoin the violation of contract rights which are invaded by strangers in a direct
action by the party injured, instead of compelling a roundabout resort to a remedy through the covenant, express or
implied, of the other contracting party. But such a short
cut, however desirable, is not possible in a case like this.
A suit without the owner of the patent as a plaintiff if
maintainable would not be a suit under § 4921 of the
Revised Statutes but only an action in equity based on
the contract rights of the licensee under the license and a
* Section 4921 was amended by Act of Mar. 3, 1897, 29 St. 694, c.
391, § 6, adding a six years' limitation on actions under it, and by
Act of Feb. 18, 1922, 42 St. 392, c. 58, § 8, allowing expert evidence
as to damages and requiring notice of litigation to Commissioner of
Patents for record by endorsement on file wrapper of patents involved. The amendments do not affect the question here.

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
459

467

Opinion of the Court.

stranger's violation of them. There would be no jurisdiction in courts of the United States to entertain it unless
by reason of diverse citizenship of the parties, which
does not exist in this case. Hill v. Whitcomb, 12 Fed.
Cases, 182, 185, Case No. 6502; Wilson v. Sandford, 10
How. 99, 101; Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S. 613, and cases
cited.
What remedies then can equity afford in a case like
this? Waterman v. Mackenzie, 138 U. S. 252, involved
the question whether a grant from the owner of the patent
of the exclusive right to make and sell but not to use was
an assignment under the statute entitling the grantee in
his own name to sue an infringer in equity, and it was
held that it was not. Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the
Court, at page 255 said:
"In equity, as at law, when the transfer amounts to a
license only, the title remains in the owner of the patent;
and suit must be brought in his name, and never in the
name of the licensee alone, unless that is necessary to
prevent an absolute failure of justice, as where the patentee is the infringer, and cannot sue himself. Any rights
of the licensee must be enforced through or in the name of
the owner of the patent, and perhaps, if necessary to protect the rights of all parties, joining the licensee with him
as a plaintiff. Rev. Stat. § 4921. Littlefield v. Perry, 21
Wall. 205, 223; PaperBag Cases, 105 U. S. 766, 771; Birdsell v. Shaliol, 112 U. S. 485-487. And see Renard v.
Levinstein, 2 Hem. & Mil. 628."
Littlefield v. Perry, 21 Wallace 205, was a suit for infringement by one to whom was granted an exclusive right
to make, use, and vend by the patent owner. The Court
held that it was an assignment under the statute, but
further held that, even if it were only an exclusive license,
the suit might be maintained under the patent laws, because the patentee who had been privy to, the alleged

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

infringement had been made a party defendant with the
infringer. This Court said at page 223:
"A mere licensee can not sue strangers who infringe.
In such case redress is obtained through or in the name of
the patentee or his assignee. Here, however, the patefitee
is the infringer, and as he can not sue himself, the licensee
is powerless, so far as the courts of the United States are
concerned, unless he can sue in his own name. A court of
equity looks to substance rather than form. When it has
jurisdiction of parties it grants the appropriate relief
without regard to whether they come as plaintiff or defendant. In this case the person who should have protected the plaintiff against all infringements has become
himself the infringer. He held the legal title to his patent
in trust for his licensees. He has been faithless to his
trust, and courts of equity are always open for the redress
of such a wrong. This wrong is an infringement. Its redress involves a suit, therefore, arising under the patent
laws, and of that suit the Circuit Court has jurisdiction."
The presence of the owner of the patent as a party is
indispensable not only to give jurisdiction under the patent laws but also, in most cases, to enable the alleged
infringer to respond in one action to all claims of infringement for his act, and thus either to defeat all claims in
the one action, or by satisfying one adverse decree to bar
all subsequent actions.
If the owner of a patent, being within the jurisdiction,
refuses or is unable to join an exclusive licensee as coplaintiff, the licensee may make him a party defendant
by process and he will be lined up by the court in the
party character which he should assume. This is the
necessary effect of the decision in Littlefield v. Perry,
supra. See also Brammer v. Jones, 4 Fed. Cases 11, Case
No. 1806; Gamewell Telegraph Company v. Brooklyn,
14 Fed. 255; Waterman v. Shipman, 55 Fed. 982, 986;
Libbey Glass Company v. McKee Glass Company, 216

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
459

469

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. 172; affirmed 220 Fed. 672; Hurd v. Goold, 203 Fed.
998. This would seem to be in accord with general equity
practice. Waldo v. Waldo, 52 Mich. 91, 94. A cestui
que trust may -make an unwilling trustee a defendant in
a suit to protect the subject of the trust. Porterv. Sabin,
149 U. S. 473, 479; Brn v. Mann, 151 Fed. 145, 153;
Monmouth Company v. Means, 151 Fed. 159, 165. Eastman v. Wright, 6 Pick. 312, 316.
It seems clear then on principle and authority that the
owner of a patent who grants to another the exclusive
right to make, use or vend the invention, which does not
constitute a statutory assignment, holds the title to the
patent in trust for such a licensee, to the extent that he
must allow the use of his name as plaintiff in any action
brought at the instance of the licensee in law or in equity
to obtain damages for the injury to his exclusive right by
an infringer or to enjoin infringement of it. Such exclusive licenses frequently contain express covenants by the
patent-owner and licensor to sue infringers that expressly
cast upon the former the affirmative duty of initiating
and bearing the expense of the litigation. But without
such express covenants, the implied obligation of the
licensor to allow the use of his name is indispensable to
the enjoyment by the licensee of the monopoly which by
personal contract the licensor has given. Inconvenience
and possibly embarrassing adjudication in respect of the
validity of the licensor's patent rights, as the result of
suits begun in aid of the licensee, are only the equitable
and inevitable sequence of the licensor's contract, whether
express or implied.
But suppose the patentee and licensor is hostile and is
out of the jurisdiction where suit for infringement must
be brought, what remedy is open to the exclusive licensee?
The matter has been given 'attention by courts dealing
with patent cases. In' Wilson v. Chickering, supra, at
p. 218, an exclusive licensee brought a bill in equity to

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

enjoin infringement without joining the owner of the
patent. A demurrer was sustained with thirty days to
amend. Judge Lowell, after saying that a mere licensee
can not generally sue in equity without joining the patentee, said:
"I do not, however, intend to be understood that
plaintiff will be without remedy if he can not find the
patentee, or if the latter is hostile. The statute does not
abridge the power of a court of equity to do justice to
the parties before it if others who can not be found are
not absolutely necessary parties, as in this case the
patentee is not. At law the plaintiff could use the name
of a patentee in an action and perhaps he may have the
right in equity under some circumstances. The bill gives
no explanation of his absence; but it was said in argument
that he is both out of the jurisdiction and hostile. If so,
no doubt there are methods known to a court of equity
by which the suit may proceed for the benefit of the only
person who is entitled to damages."
In Renard v. Levinstein, 2 Hem. & Mil. 628, before
Vice Chancellor Page Wood, afterwards Lord Hatherly,
an exclusive licensee brought suit to enjoin infringement
by a stranger and made the patentees who were a foreign
firm co-plaintiffs. There was no objection to this action.
No specific authority for this appeared, but it seems to
have been implied from the relation of the exclusive
licensee and the owner of the patent. It has some significance here in the fact that it was apparently referred to
by Mr. Justice Gray, in Waterman v. Mackenzie, supra,
as indicating what could be done in an English court of
equity to enable the licensee to secure protection in the
name of the owner of the patent.
In the case of Brush Swan Electric Company v. Thompson & Houston, 48 Fed. 224, the Brush Swan Company
in Connecticut sued the Thompson-Houston Company in
equity for infringing the former's rights as an exclusive

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
459

471

Opinion of the Court.

licensee for the sale of a device made under a patent
owned by the Brush Electric Company of Cleveland,
Ohio. The Brush-Swan Company made the Brush Electric Company a co-plaintiff. The Cleveland company
appeared for the purpose of asking that its name be
stricken out as a party complainant, because the bill had
been filed without its consent. The motion to strike out
the co-plaintiff's name was denied by Judge Shipman, on
the ground that, as the patent-owner, being witholit the
jurisdiction, could not be served with process, tlere would
otherwise be absolute failure of justice. The Judge said
that prima facie there was an implied power in the exclusive licensee under such circumstances to make the patent-owner a party plaintiff. The same conclusion was
approved by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Brush
Electric Company v. California Electric Company, 52
Fed. 945, before McKenna and Gilbert, Circuit Judges,
and Knowles, the District Judge, affirming the same case
in 49 Fed. Rep. 73, and by the same court in Excelsior
Company v. Allen, 104 Fed. 553, and in Excelsior Company v. The City of Seattle, 117 Fed. 140, 143, 144. In
Hurd v. Goold Co., 203 Fed. 998, before the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Second Circuit (Lacombe, Coxe and
Noyes, Judges), Hurd, who was the exclusive licensee,
joined with himself two corporations who held the legal
title to the patent. The corporations had been enjoined
in the Sixth Circuit from maintaining suits for infringement. The Second Circuit Court held that Hurd was
entitled to present his licensors,-that is, the owners of
the patent,-as co-plaintiffs, even against their will and
in spite of their protests. This doctrine was approved by
the same court in Radio Corporation v. Emerson, 296
Fed. 51, 54. See also McKee Glass Co. v. Libbey Glass
Co., 220 Fed. 672 (3rd C. C. A.), affirming same, 216 Fed.
172; Chisholm v. Johnson, 106 Fed. 191, 212; Owatonna
Mfg. Co. v. Fargo,94 Fed. 519, 520.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

It is objected to the relevancy of these authorities that
not one of them actually presents the case here. In all
of them it is said the owner or patentee was within the
jurisdiction of the court and could be served, or else had
come into the jurisdiction voluntarily to move for leave
to withdraw as a party. As the court had the owner
before it, and the owner was in duty bound to become a
party, the court could prevent the withdrawal. Here the
owner is not in the jurisdiction and does not come in. It
is the defendant, the alleged infringer, which objects to
using the na~ne of the owner as plaintiff without its
consent.
We think the cases cited go beyond the defendant's
interpretation of them and do hold that, if there is no
other way of securing justice to the exclusive licensee, the
latter may make the owner without the jurisdidtion a coplaintiff without his consent in the bill against the
infringer. Equity will not suffer a wrong without a
remedy. 1 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, 4th Ed., §§
423, 424. While this maxim is of course not of universal
a plication, it justifies the short step needed to hold that,
in an equity suit under § 4921, where otherwise justice
to the exclusive licensee would fail, he may make the
owner of the patent a co-plaintiff in his bill under § 4921,
in analogy to the remedy given him in an action on the
case at law for damages under § 4919, for the two sections
are plainly in pari materia.
In so doing, equity does no more than courts of law.
did, at one period in their history, as we have seen, in
implying in the assignee of a chose in action, a power of
attorney to maintain an action in the name of the'assignor
in order to assure to the assignee the benefits of his assign-,
ment. Where the assignor attempted to interfere with
the exercise of the power of attorney by collection of the
assignee's claim, or where for any technical reason the
remedy through the exercise of implied power of attorney

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
459

473

Opinion of the Court.

was unavailable, equity intervenedto lend its aid to the
assignee and secure a recovery for his benefit. See Lenox
v. Roberts, 2 Wheat. 373; Hammond v. Messenger, 9 Sim.
327; Roberts v. Lloyd, 1 DeG. & J. 208; Hodge v. Cole,
140 Mass. 116; Hughes v. Nelson, 29 N. J. Eq. 547; Hayes
v. Hayes, 45 N. J. Eq. 461.
The objection by the defendant that the name of the
owner of the patent is used as a plaintiff in this suit without authority is met by the obligation the owner is under
to allow the use of his name and title to protect all lawful.
exclusive licensees and sub-licensees against infringers,
and by the application of the maxim that equity regards
that as done which ought to be done. Camp v. Boyd, 229
U. S. 530, 559; United States v. ColoradoAnthracite Company, 225 U. S. 219, 223; Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheat. 563,
578. The court should on these grounds refuse to strike
out the name of the owner as co-plaintiff put in the bill
under proper averment by the exclusive licensee.
The owner beyond the reach of process may be made
co-plaintiff by the licensee, but not until after he has been
requested to become such voluntarily. If he declines to
take any part in the case, though he knows of its
imminent pendency and of his obligation to join, he will
be bound by the decree which follows. We think this
result follows from the general principles of res judicata.
In American Bell Telephone Company v. National Telephone Company, 27 Fed. 663, heard before Judges Pardee
and Billings, the question was whether the National Telephone Company was bound by a decree in favor of the
Bell Company for infringement against a Pittsburgh Company claiming under a license from the National Company. The National Company under a contract upon
notice to defend its license took control of the case but,
becoming dissatisfied with a preliminary ruling of the
court, withdrew its counsel and evidence from the case.
The Natiomial Company was held bound on the authority

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

of the case of Robbins v. Chicago, 4 Wall. 657. When
Robbins was building a store in Chicago by an independent contractor, an area-way adjoining the street was left
open. A passer-by fell in and was injured. He sued the
city .and recovered judgment for $15,000. Robbins had
been previously warned by the city of the danger of the
unprotected area and had notice of the accident and of the
pendency of the suit but did not become a party. The
city then sued Robbins and was given a judgment against
him for the amount of the recovery against the city. This
Court in sustaining the result held that parties bound by
the judgment in such a case included all who were directly
interested in the subject matter who had knowledge of
the pendency of the suit and a right to take part therein,
even if they refused or neglected to appear and avail
themselves of this right. Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1,
19; Plumb v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 560; Robertson v. Hill,
V Fed. Cases, 944, Case No. 11925; Miller v. Liggett, 7

Fed. 91.
By a request to the patent-owner to join as co-plaintiff,
by notice of the suit after refusal and the making of the
owner a co-plaintiff, he is given a full opportunity by taking part in the cause to protect himself against any abuse
of the use of his name as plaintiff, while on the other hand
the defendant charged with infringement will secure a
decree saving him from multiplicity of suits for infringement. Of course, a decree in such a case would constitute
an estoppel of record against the patent-owner, if challenged, only after evidence of the exclusive license, the
request to join as co-plaintiff and the notice of the suit.
There is nothing in the case of Crown Company v. The
Nye Tool W'orks, 261 U. S. 24, which conflicts with this
conclusion. That case was brought by the plaintiff, a
licensee, to establish as a principle of patent practice that
a transfer by an owner of a patent to another, conferring
only the right to sue a third for past and future infringe-

THf SLER v. CROOKS.
459

475

Statement of the Case.

ments of the patent, without the right to make, use and
vend the patented article, was an assignment of the patent
under § 4898 R. S. We declined so to hold. There was no
offer to make the owner of the patent a party, nor were
there any facts showing that the owner would not join as
co-plaintiff or was not in the jurisdiction. The appellant
stood solely upon his right to sue as an assignee of the
patent and was defeated.
We hold that the De Forest Company was properly
joined as a co-plaintiff by the Radio Corporation upon
the 25th averment of the bill. This makes it unnecessary
for us to consider the argument on behalf of the appellee
that the American Telephone and Telegraph Company
was the owner of the patent instead of the De Forest
Company.
Decree affirmed.

TRUSLER v. CROOKS, AS COLLECTOR AND INDIVIDUALLY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 188. Argued November 17, 1925.-Decided January 11, 1926.
Section 3 of the "Future Trading Act," purporting to impose a tax
of 20 cents per bushel upon all privileges or options for contracts
of purchase or sale of grain, known to the trade as 'privileges,'

'bids,' 'offers,' ' puts and calls,' ' indemnities,' or 'ups and downs,'
is unconstitutional. Its purpose is not to raise revenue but to
inhibit, by a penalty, the transactions referred to, as part of the
plan set up by the Act for regulating grain exchanges under guise
of the federal taxing power, which was adjudged unconstitutional
in Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44. P. 479.
300 Fed. 996, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of 'the District Court for the
defendant in an action brought to recover money paid
under protest as a stamp tax.

