OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

Appellee's claim is not well founded and the judgment
of the Court of Claims must be
Reversed.

EDWARDS, COLLECTOR, v. DOUGLAS

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 129.

Argued April 17. 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.

Section 31 (b), added by the Revenue Act of 1917 to the Revenue
Act of 1916, provides: "Any distribution made to the shareholders
...

of

a

corporation

...

ih the

year

nineteen

hundred

and seventeen, or subsequent tax years, shall be deemed to have
been made from the most recently accumulated undivided profits
or surplus, and shall constitute a part of the annual income of the
distributee for the year in which received, and shall be taxed to
the distributee at the rates prescribed by law for the years in
which such profits or surplus were accumulated by the corporation,

. . . but nothing herein shall be construed as taxing any

earnings or profits accrued prior to March first, nineteen hundred
and thirteen.

.

. ."

Construing this, Held:

1. Where the net profits of a corporation, during the fiscal year in
which dividends are paid, are sufficient to cover such dividends, the
term "most recently accumulated undivided profits" applies to
such current earnings, and the dividends must be deemed to have
made from them and are subject to the income tax rates of that
year, although, when the distribution was made, there were other
funds, adequate to meet it, carried in the surplus account of the
corporation, as made up to the end of the preceding fiscal year.
Pp. 207, 215, 217.
2. The term "surplus " as employed in corporate finance and accounting, designates an account on the books, representing the net
assets of the corporation in excess of all liabilities, including its
capital stock. P. 214.
3. As used in § 31 (b) supra, "surplus" means that part of the
surplus which was derived from profits, which, at the close of earlier
annual accounting periods, were carried into the surplus account as
undistributed profits. Id.

EDWARDS v. DOUGLAS.
204

Opinion of the Court.

in cor4. "Undivided profits" has not acquired a fixed meaning
is ieason
there
supra,
(b).
31
§
in
accounting;
and
finance
porate
to conclude, it refers to profits which have neither been distributed
of the
as dividends nor carried to surplus account upon the closing
214.
P.
earnings.
undistributed
current
to
books,-that is,
5. The general aim of Congress, when enacting the above legislation,
was to make the dividend, in whatever year paid, bear the tax
rate of the year in which the profits of which it was a distribution
had been earned, and for this purpose to treat as a unit the profits
of the whole tax year; coupled with which was the special aim of
making the war profits pay the high war taxes, to which end it
was essential that the law, in determining the applicable tax rate,
should neither accept any declaration of the corporation as to
what year's profits were being distributed, nor adopt the earliest
year (since March 1, 1913) of. which there were accumulated
profits available for distribution. P. 216.
298 Fed. 229, reversed.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
adverse to the plaintiffs, Douglas et al., in their action to
recover from the defendant Edwards the amount of an
income tai assessment which they paid to him, as Collector, under protest. See 287 Fed. 919.
CERTIORARI

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Richard S. Holmes, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Matthew C. Fleming and Paul Armitage, with
whom Messrs. Archibald Douglas and Edward Holloway

were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
Court.

.delivered the opinion of the

Section 31 (b), added by § 1211 of the Revenue Act
of 1917, c. 63, Title XII, 40 Stat. 900, 338 to the Revenue
Act of 1916, provides: "Any distribution made to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

shareholders . . . of a corporation . . . in-the year
nineteen hundred and seventeen, ,or subsequent tax
years, shall be deemed to have been made from the most
recently accumulated undivided profits or surplus, and
shall constitute a part of the annual income of the distributee for the year in which received, and shall be taxed
to the distributee at the rates prescribed by law for the
years in which such profits or surplus were accumulated
by the corporation, . . but nothing herein shall be
construed as taxing any earnings or profits accrued prior
to March first, nineteen hundred and thirteen. .. .
James Douglas received from Phelps Dodge Corporation in -September and December, 1917, two dividends,
called at the time "depletion dividends," aggregating
$328,400. He, and later his estate, claimed that these
dividends were not taxable because they were a return
-of capital, not income. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue insisted that they were taxable, and assessed the
tax at the 1917 rate. It amounted to $173,579.72. The
estate-paid the tax under protest, and brought, in the federal court for southern New York, this suit against the
Collector to recover the full: amount so paid. The contention was repeated that the dividends were not taxable be-'
cause not constituting income. In addition, it was claimed
that, if they were taxable at all, it was not at the 1917
rate, but at the rate for 1916. The income tax rate imposed upon individuals for the calendar year 1917 by the
1917 Revenue Act.was much higher than that imposed
for the year 1916 by the Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463,
Part I, 39 Stat. 756. The District Court concluded that
the dividends were income and that they were taxable at
the 1917 rate. It entered judgment for the Collector.
287 Fed. 919.
This judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. It agreed with the District Court that the dividends were not a distribution of capital. But it found

EDWARDS v. DOUGLAS.
204

Opinion of the Court.

that there was on hand on December 31, 1916, in the
surplus account, a balance of profits earned in that year
amply sufficient to enable the corporation to pay these
dividends out of such surplus; held that by reason thereof
the dividends received by Douglas should have been taxed
under § 31 (b) at the 1916 rate; and ordered that a mandate issue directing the District Court, upon a new trial,
to enter judgment for the Douglas estate in accordance
with its conclusions. 298 Fed. 229. This Court granted
a writ of certiorari. 266 U. S. 596. The assertion of the
estate that the dividends were a distribution of capital
was not renewed in this Court; and the character assigned
to the dividends by the corporation was treated here as
of no legal significance. The sole question requiring decision' is whether these dividends paid in 1917 shall be
deemed to have been paid out of the earnings of that
year or out of an accumulated surplus built up in 1916
and earlier years. The question does not concern the
corporation. The stockholder is interested only because
he is an income tax payer.
The Government contends that the phrase "most recently accumulated undivided profits or surplus" in § 31
(b) includes current earnings of the year in which the
dividends are paid; and that, as the earnings of 1917 were
ample to pay these dividends, the 1917 dividends are conclusively presumed to have been paid out of 1917 earnings.
The fiscal year of Phelps Dodge Corporation coincides
with the calendar year. The corporation earned in 1917
a net profit of $16,742,487.06. The two distributions
here involved amounted to only $3,600,000. The corporation paid from time to time during 1917, in all, ten
The estate had also contended that the word "deemed" merely
"gave rise to a rebuttable presumption, subject to be rebutted by
showing the fund.out of which the corporation actually paid the dividend." This contention was denied by both lower courts and was
not made in this Court.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

dividends aggregating $14,400,000. A large excess remained, to be added to the surplus account on closing the
books as of December 31, 1917. There was no suggestion
by the Douglas estate that, when these dividends were
paid, the current undistributed 1917 earnings of the corporation then accrued were in fact insufficient to pay the
two dividends. The District Court found that, under a
pro rata apportionment, theywere" more than sufficient."
It is not suggested that the approximate amount of the
undivided current earnings of 1917 accrued and undivided
at the times these dividends were paid was not in fact
known to be sufficient for this purpose. Nor is it suggested by the Douglas estate that the exact facts, or the
knowledge thereof by the corporation at the times when
the dividends were declared or paid, are of legal significance.
The claim of the Douglas estate is that, the current
profits are not, within the meaning of the Act, the "most
recently accumulated undivided profits or surplus," from
which the distributions "shall be deemed to have been
made;" and that what Congress intended was that a dividend should be deemed to have been paid from the most
recent accumulation of profits which, before payment of
the dividend, appeared on the books as having been
added to the undivided profits or surplus account of a
fiscal year. The argument is that the income tax is levied
generally with reference to the period of a full year; that
the net financial results of the full calendar and fiscal year
of a torporation cannot be known until the expiration
of the fiscal year; that the words used by Congress have
in corporate.accounting a well known technical meaning;
that this meaning is earnings which have been determined by the taking of inventories and the balancing of
books to constitute " undivided profits or surplus "; that
it was after December 31, 1917, before the net financial
results of the operations of that year were formally and

EDWARDS v. DOUGLAS.
204

Opinion of the Court.

definitely determined by this corporation by the usual
taking of the annual inventory, the balancing of the books,
and the carrying of the "undivided profits or surplus "
to the appropriate account; that the most recently accumulated undivided profits so appearing was the undistrib-*
uted balance of the profits earned in the year 1916, which
was shown on the books as closed under date of December
31, 1916, and appeared in the surplus account; that. this
balance was sufficient in amount to meet these two dividends; and that it must be deeemd to have been applied
in paying them. In short, the claim of the Douglas estate
is that Congress, in providing by § 31 (b) that dividends
shall be deemed to have been paid "from the most
recently accumulated undivided profits or surplus,"
meant from such balance as, at the time of the payment
of the dividend, is shown by the undivided profits or surplus account of the preceding fiscal year.
The Douglas estate, apparently, does not contend that
under the 1917 Act dividends are not to be taxed at all
unless there was an existing- balance of taxable profits in
the surplus or undivided profits account from which they
can be considered to have been paid. To have so contended would have been to impute to Congress the intention of exempting from taxation the dividends received
in 1917 by those individuals who were stockholders in
corporations which earIed in 1917 large sums and paid
them out in dividends during that year,2 but which had
no earned surplus at the close of their fiscal year on DeThis, as a business matter, could easily be done, and is, in fact,
done by many corporations. Nearly every business with a well developed accounting system can, at any time, without the formal periodic inventory or closing of its books usual-at the end of a fiscal year,
determine approximately the amount of its current earnings, the
amount accrued' since the beginning of its fiscal year, and the part
thereof undistributed . Many corporations do make such approximate ascertainment of profits monthly, or oftener. And, relying upon
their system of cost-accounting, they make distributions of current
2

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

cember 31, 1916, or whose earned surplus consisted wholly
of profits earned prior to March 1, 1913. The Douglas
estate grafts. upon the section an implied condition or
limitation. Its position seems to be that § 31 (b) applies
if, and only if, at the time of the payment of the dividend, there was on hand an undistributed part of the
taxable earnings of some prior fiscal year or years. In
other words, it asserts that Congress, in providing that a
distribution to shareholders should "be deemed to have
been made from the most recently accumulated undivided
profits or surplus,' implied the condition-" if there are
suchaccumulated profits or surplus not exempt from taxation "; that if there are available no such undivided
profits or surplus, accrued subsequent to March 1, 1913,
the distribution will be considered to have been made
from current earnings; that such dividends, in that event,
would be taxable as income under § 2 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1916, 39 Stat. 757, as amended by § 1200 of the
1917 Act, 40 Stat. 329; and that the 1917 rates would
apply. Whether, at the time these 1917 dividends were
paid, there was in the surplus account as of December 31,
1916, such funds sufficient for their payment, as the
Court of Appeals appears to have found, we have no occasion to consider. For we are of the opinion that, in any
event, the District Court was right in holding that these
1917 dividends must be deemed to have been paid out of the
1917 earnings, and that the stockholder was taxable
thereon at the 1917 rate.
The legislative history of § 31 (b) is relied upon by
the Douglas estate in support of its construction. On
earnings without a closing of the books, as the Phelps Dodge Corpo-

ration did in 1917.
This is shown by the record to be true of the Phelps Dodge Corporation. It paid during 1017 regular and extra dividends on June
28, on September 28, and on December 28, aggregating $8,100,000,
whichi were declared, in its report to stockholders, to have been paid
by it "out of earnings for the year 1917."

EDWARDS v. DOUGLAS.
204

Opinion of the Court.

the other hand, the Government relies upon the legislative history of the Revenue Act of 1918, Act of February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, passed by the same
Congress which enacted the Revenue Act of 1917. Enquiries into the detail of legislative history are sometimes helpful in removing a doubt presented by the language used in a statute. Penn Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Lederer, 252 U. S. 523, 537. But we have no occasion
here to resort to that aid in construing the phrase in question. To ascertain its meaning, we need only bear in
mind the general character of the income tax, the specific
practices of corporations concerning profits and dividends,.
the prior income-tax legislation to which § 31 (b) is an
amendment, and the time of the latter's enactment.
Ordinarily, an income tax is laid upon all taxable income actually, received during the tax-year and the tax
is payable at the tax-rate of the year in which it is received, although none of the income may have been
earned by the taxpayer during that year, or, where the.
income consists of dividends, although the corporation
may not have earned in that year any part of the profits
of which the dividend is a distribution. The Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, § II, 38 Stat. 114, 166, the first incometax law enacted after the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment, was construed by the Treasury Department as embodying this general rule without any exception. Consequently, the Treasury exacted such payment on account
of all income received by the taxpayer after March 1, 1913,
the effective date of the Amendment, although it appeared that all of the income had been earned before that
date either by the taxpayer or by the corporation whose
profits were distributed as a dividend. The correctness
of the Treasury's construction was questioned; and before the second income tax law was enacted, September
8, 1916, c. 463, Title I, 39 Stat. 756, lower federal courts
had in Lynch v. Hornby, 236 Fed. 661, held the Treasury

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

construction to be erroneous. There had also been serious contention that, as construed by the Treasury, the
provision was, when applied to dividends, both unconstitutional and unjust.' Thes6 contentions apparently
prevailed with Congress when, in framing the 1916 Act,
it raised, the normal tax-rate from 1 per cent. to 2 per
cent. and the maximum additional tax (super-tax) from
6 per cent. to 13 per cent. The 1916 Act, by a proviso to
§ 2, limited the tax on dividends to distributions "made
or ordered to be made by a corporation . . . out of
.its earnings or profits accrued since March first, nineteen
hundred and thirteen . . ." Soon after cdme the War;
the great need of the. Government for large revenues;
and the large war-profits. Congress enacted the 1917
War Income Tax law, which raised the normal tax rate
to 4 per cent. and the maximum .additional tax to 63 per
cent.; and it made the.provision retroactive, in the main,
to January 1, of that year.
While the 1917 Act was under consideration, it was recognized that this rapid increase in the income tax rate
might result in unjust discrimination if no change were
made in the then existing rule governing the taxation of
dividends. All profits earned by members of a partnership would be taxed at the rate prevailing in the year in
which they were earned, although actually withdrawn
in. a later year when the tax rate was much higher. On
the other hand, the tay upon"the profits of a corporation
earned in 1916 or earlier, would, if paid out in 1917 as
dividends, be taxed at the high 1917 rates. There would
be similar discrimination among the holders of stock in
different corporations. The stockholders in those- corporations which had deferred the distribution of profits
8 The decision of this Court of Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U. S. 339,
which sustained the Treasury's construction and held the act constitutional, was not rendered until June 3, 1918.' See also Peabody
v. Eisner, 247 U. S. 347.

EDWARDS v. DOUGLAS.
204

Opinion of the Court.

earned prior to 1917, either generally from prudence or
specifically with a view to stabilizing over a long period
the rate of dividend, would be at a great disadvantage
as comparedwith the stockholders in those corporations
which had pursued the practice of distributing each year
substantially all profits earned. On the other hand, if
corporations were left free, to determine out of what
year's profits dividends paid in 1917 and subsequent
years should be deemed to have been made, a corpora,
tion with a surplus derived from earnings made prior to
1917 could, while accumulating the profits of the war
years, pay dividends on which its stockholders would
escape the heaty war tax, by simply declaring that the
dividends were payable out of the earnings bf earlier
years. And if there were still on hand such sufficient surplus earnings from the period prior to March 1, 1913, the
dividends would be exempt from all tax. It was apparently to obviate such inequalities that Congress provided
by § 31 (b) for an objective consideration of the date when
the corporation earned the profits, as .well as the date
when the taxpayer received his share of them in the form
of the dividend. By implying the condition stated above,
the Douglas estate escapes from a position which would
otherwise impute to Congress the intention of enabling
the war profits of 1917 and subsequent years, actually distributed as dividends, to escape from the war taxes. But
in implying the condition it imputes to Congress, which
was seeking to prevent discrimination against stockholders
in those corporations which had on January 1, 1917, surplus profits earned since March 1, 1913, the intention of
grossly discriminating in their favor. For if this condition is -read into the Act, stockholders in corporations
which had no such surplus on December 31, 1917, are taxable on 1917 dividends at the.high 1917 rates; while those
in corporations which had such surplus are taxable on
1917 dividends at the lower rates of 1916 or earlier years.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S

Congress did not use the words "surplus account" or
"undivided profits account." Its language is "undivided
profits or surplus." The word " surplus" is a term commonly employed in corporate finance and accounting to
designate an. account on corporate books. But this is not
true of the words "undivided profits." The surplus ac-.
count represents the net assets of a corporation in excess
of all liabilities including its capital stock. This surplus
may be "paid-in surplus," as where the stock is issued at
a price above par. It may be "earned surplus," as where
tt was derived wholly from undistributed profits. Or it
may, among other things, represent the increase in valuation of land or other assets made upon a revaluation of
the company's fixed property. See La Belle Iron Works
v. lUnited States, 256 U. S. 377, 385. As used in § 31 (b)
the term undoubtedly means that part of the surplus
which was derived from profits which, at the close of
earlier annual accounting periods, were carried into the
surplus account as undistributed profits. On the other
hand, the term "undivided profits" has not acquired in
corporate finance and accounting a like fixed meaning. It
is not known as designating generally in business an account on the corporation's books, as distinguished from
profits actually earned but not yet distributed.- Few
business corporations establish an "undivided profits"
account.' By most corporations the term "undivided
profits" is employed to describe profits which have
'The Committee on Accounting Terminology of the American
Association of Public Accountants was for years engaged in preparing
a list of definitions. That contained in the Year Book of 1913, pp.
176-227, gives at p. 226 this definition: "Undivided Profits--Earnings or profits which have not been divided among the partners in a
firm or the stockholders in a corporation."
5 The Interstate Commerce Comrhission prescribes tor the various
claes of corporations subjict to its supervision about 13 different
forms of accounts, all of which include a general balance sheet. The
number of items on the liability side of this balance sheet varies in

-

EDWARDS v. DOUGLAS.
204

Opinion of the Court.

neither been distributed as dividends nor carried to surplus account upon the closing of the books; that is, current undistributed earnings
That this is the natural meaning of the term "undivided profits" is indicated by the action of both Douglas
and his estate.' That this is the meaning in which it was
used by Congress is confirmed by the upe of the expression "earnings and profits" later in the same paragraph,"

and, also, by the use of the term "undivided profits" in
§ 207.8 If it be accepted as the.meaning in .which Conthese several forms from 8 to 33. There is no item "undivided
profits" in any form.
By incorporated banks the term is commonly employed to designate
the account in which profits are carried more or less temporarily, in
contradistinction to the 'account called surplus in which are carried
amounts treated as permanent capital, and which may have been
derived from payments for stock in excess of par, or from profits
which have been definitely devoted to use as capital. See Fidelity
Title & Trust Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 304, 308.
8 Douglas received (see note 2, supra) from Phelps Dodge Corporation during 1917 six other dividends, aggregating $738,900, which
were confessedly paid out of the 1917 profits-and which were reported by him as taxable in his return to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.' The two dividends here in question were reported by
him in his return as not taxable solely on the ground that they were
"depletion dividends." It was on this glound only that the estate,
in its applications to the Treasury, sought recovery of the amount in
suit.
'§ 31 (b) " • . but nothing herein shall be construed as taxing
any earnings or profits accrued prior to March first, nineteen hundred and thirteen, but such earnings or profits may be distributed in
stock dividends or otherwise, exempt from the tax, after the distribution of earnings -and profits accrued since March first, nineteen hundred and thirteen, has been made. This subdivision shall not apply
to any distribution made prior to August sixth, nineteen hundred and
seventeen, out of earnings or profits accrued prior to March first,
nineteen hundred and thirteen."
8In§ 207 of .the same Act, which' deals with the War Excess Profits
Tax on corporations and makes the tax dependent on the amount
of the invested capital, the term "undivided profits" is likewise used.

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

gress used the words, the course to be pursued under § 31
(b) becomes consistent with the general purpose evidenced by other parts of the Act. Its general aim was
clearly to make the dividend, in whatever year paid, bear
the tax rate of the year in which the profits of which it was
a distribution had been earned; and for this purpose to
treat as a unit the profits of the whole tax year. In providing measures for the attainrpent of that aim, it could
be of no practical significance whether, at the time of the
payment of the dividend, these profits appeared i~i a surplus or undivided profits account (as the profits earned
within part of a year would, where .a corporation closed
its books monthly, quarterly, or semi-annually) or
whether they still rested as current earnings without
formal determination or specific allocation.
Besides this general aim, Congress had the special aim
of making the war profits pay the high war taxes.' To
this end it was essential that the law should, in determining the applicable tax rate, disregard any declaration of
the corporation as to what year's profits were being distributed. Not only was it essential that every such declaration of the corporation should be disregarded, but also
that the dividend should not thereupon be deemed to
have been paid from the profits of the earliest year (since
March 1, 1913) of which there remained accumulated
That section, in paragraph (a) 3 defines invested capital as including
" paid in or earned surplus and undivided profits used or employed in
the business, exclusive of undivided profits earned during the taxable
year."
0 To discourage the hoarding of profits in order to avoid the tax,
two supplemental provisions were incorporated in the Act. By § 3,
incorporating § 3 of the Revenue Act of 1916, Congress taxed as
income received by the stockholder his proportion of profits earned
by the corporation and fraudulently hoarded by it to avod payment
of the tax. By § 1206 (2), adding § 10 (b) to the Revenue Act of
1916, it subjected the corporation to an additional tax of 10 per
cent. on undistributed income not employed in the business, unless
invested in obligations of the United States.

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD Co.

217

Syllabus.

204

profits available for distribution. To accomplish the purpose of Congress it was necessary that the dividend be
deemed to have been paid out of the available profits or
earnings of the most recent year or years. Its intention
so to provide was adequately expressed by the use of the
phrase "most recently accumulated" in connection with
the words ".undivided profits or surplus." As, in the case
at bar, there were profits of the year 1917 ample to cover
all dividends, those here in suit must be deemed to have
been paid therefrom.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR, JUSTICE BUT-LER, dissent.
LOUISVILLE

&

NASHVILLE

RAILROAD

CO. v.

SLOSS-SHEFFIELD STEEL & IRON. COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF' APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUJ Mt.

No. 25.

Argued Aprit 23, 1925.--Decided November 23, 1925.

1. The case is properly here on writ of error, therefore certiorari is
denied. P. 223.
2. Upon review of a judgment enforcing a reparation order made by
the Interstate 'Cojnmerce Commission in lieu of an earlier one, the
carrier contended'4that the later order, though less in amount, was
nevertheless void, because by it the commission not merely eliminated items inadvertently included in the earlier order but, without
notice to the carrier, or opportunity to be heard, added others
which had been inadvertently omitted. Held that, assuming it
otherwise void, the later order, having been made on petition of
the shipper, could be treated as effecting a remittitur of part of the
-award, and the action would stand as one upon the original order
(which was annexed to the complaint and introduced in evidence);
appropriate amendments of the pleadings, in that regard, being
considered as made in this Court, and alleged errors of the trial
court, in ruling on evidence concerning the scope of the later order,

