BRAMWELL v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
Syllabus.

BRAMWELL, SUPERINTENDENT, v. UNITED
STATES FIDELITY & GUARANTY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 192. Argued November 23, 1925.-Decided January 11, 1926.
1. Indebtedness of a bank for Indian moneys, individual and tribal,
deposited with it by the Superintendent of an Indian Reservation
and secured by a bond given by the bank to the United States, is
an indebtedness to the United States, within Rev. Stats. § 3466.
P. 487.
2. Section 3466, Rev. Stats., is to be liberally construed in favor of
the United States. Id.
3. The Priority Act extends to all debts due the United States from
insolvent living debtors when their insolvency is shown in one of
the ways specified in § 3466. P. 487.
4. The specified ways include all cases in wlhich the insolvent debtor
makes a voluntary assignment of his property, without regard to
the purpose or manner of the assignment, and all in which an act
of bankruptcy is committed under the laws of a State or a national
bankruptcy law; and the Act does not expressly require that the
debtor should be divested, or that the person on whom is imposed the duty to pay the United States first, shall have become invested, with the title to the debtor's property. P. 488.
5. An act may be "an act of bankruptcy" within § 3466, although
the debtor, being a bank, is excepted from the operation of the
Bankruptcy Law. P. 489.
6. Construed together, §§ 3466 and 3467 mean that a debt due the
United States is required first to be satisfied when possession and
control of the insolvent's estate are given to any person charged
with the duty of applying it to payment of the debts of the insolvent as the rights and priorities of creditors may be made to
appear. P. 490.
7. Where the property and business of an Oregon bank were placed,
through a resolution of its directors, in the exclusive possession and
control of the State Superintendent of Banks to be administered
and disposed of for the benefit of creditors pursuant to Oregon Ls.
§§ 6220-6223, under which the Superintendent performs the function of assignee, receiver, or trustee for the liquidation of the debts

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

269 U. S.

of the insolvent, held that, within the meaning of the Priority Act,
there was a voluntary assignment; and also an act of bankruptcy
within the definition of the Bankruptcy Law. P. 490.
8. General expressions in an opinion are to be taken in connection
with the case under consideration. P. 489.
299 Fed. 705, affirmed.

from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (295 Fed.
331) in favor of the Guaranty Company in its suit to require the Oregon Superintendent of Banks to pay first,
out of the assets of an insolvent bank, a debt to the
United States which had been assigned to the plaintiff.
APPEAL

Mr. J. P. Kavanaugh, with whom Mr. Jay Bowerman
was on the brief, for appellant.
The bank was not insolvent within the intention of
§ 3466 of the Revised Statutes. United States v. Hooe, 3
Cr. 72; Conardv. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 386; Beaston v.
The Farmers' Bank of Delaware, 12 Pet. 102; United
States v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253; Strain v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 292 Fed. 694; United States Fidelity
& Guaranty Co. v. Strain, 264 U. S. 570. A debtor is
not insolvent within the sense of the statute unless he has
taken some action which divested him of all his property
and invested title in his assignee. The authorities reduce
the controversy in this suit to this single point: Whether
the resolution of the board of directors placing the affairs
and assets of the bank under the control of the Superintendent of Banks, takes this case out of the established
rule. The only difference between this suit and United
States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Strain is, that there
the official took possession on his own initiative, and here
he did it pursuant to the resolution of the board of directors. Unless that resolution,' under the laws of Oregon,
divested the bank of its property and invested the Superintendent with title, there is no righ t of priority. The
resolution did not divest the bank of its property. Gen.

BRAMWELL v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
483

Opinion of the Court.

Laws Oreg. 1911, c. 171; 1913, c. 357; Tit. XXXV, §§
6221, 6222, 6223.
The laws of Oregon prescribe the manner in which
an assignment for the benefit of creditors shall be made.
Oregon Laws, § 10,319; Gen. Laws 1885, p. 75, § 1. That
the title to the property is not conveyed to the Superintendent of Banks, by either mode of transfer of possession and control, and that it remains in the bank until it
is transferred to purchasers from time to time at sales
authorized by the court in the liquidation proceedings, is
established conclusively by the Supreme Court of Oregon
in this case and United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v.
Bramwell, 108 Ore. 261. United States v. Oklahoma, 261
U. S. 253.
An act of bankruptcy must divest title in order to support a priority. Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware, 12 Pet. 102; Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Pet. 291; Prince v.
Bartlett, 9 Cr. 430; United States Fidelity & Guaranty
Co. v. Bramwell, 108 Ore. 287; Davis v. Pringle, 268
U. S. 315.
Messrs. Roscoe C. Nelson and C. B. Ames, with whom
Messrs. Joseph A. McCullough, Ben C. Dey, Alfred A.
Hampson, and George L. Buland were on the brief, for
appellee.
Mr. M. W. McKenzie submitted a brief as amicus
curiae, by special leave of Court.
Mr. JUsTicE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
January 28, 1922, the superintendent of the Klamath
Indian Reservation had on deposit with the First State
and Savings Bank of Klamath Falls, Oregon, $96,000,
Indian moneys, individual and tribal. The bank had
given a bond to the United States, with appellee as surety,
to secure the payment of the deposit. It was insolvent

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinicn of the Court.

269 U. S.

and, on that "day, suspended payment. Because of its
condition, the board of directors passed a resolution giving full control of its affairs to appellant. Pursuant to
the laws of the State, he took possession and control of
its property and business for the purpose of liquidation.
Appellee paid the amount of the deposit to the superintendent of the reservation, and received from the United
States an assignment of its claim against the bank; and
appellee has the priority, if any, that belonged to the
United States. R. S. § 3468. It claimed that, under R. S.
§ 3466, it should be paid in full out of the bank's assets
prior to any payment on account of unsecured or unpreferred claims. Appellant denied priority, but allowed the
claim as one not preferred. Appellee brought this suit in
the District Court of Oregon to enforce priority. The
decree went in its favor (295 Fed. 331); and was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 299 Fed. 705. The
case is here on appeal. § 241, Judicial Code.
Section 3466 provides: "Whenever any person indebted to the United States is insolvent, or whenever the
estate of any deceased debtor, in the hands of the executors or administrators, is insufficient to pay all the debts
due from the deceased, the debts due to the United States
shall be first satisfied; and the priority hereby established
shall extend as well to cases in which a debtor, not having
sufficient property to pay all his debts, makes a voluntary
assignment thereof, or in which the estate and effects of
an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor are attached
by process of law, as to cases in which an act of bankruptcy is committed."
Section 3467 provides: "Every executor, administrator, or assignee, or other person, who pays any debt due
by the person or estate from whom or for which he acts,
before he satisfies and pays the debts due to the United
States from such person or estate, shall become answerable in his own person and estate for the debts so due to

BRAMWELL v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

483

the United States, or for so much thereof as may remain
due and unpaid."
It was admitted that the total value of the bank's assets
was less than its debts, and that it was insolvent. § 6221,
Oregon Laws. National Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898,
c. 541, § 1, 30 Stat. 544. The lower courts rightly held
that the amount owed by the bank on account of the deposit in question was a debt due to the United States. ,
Appellee is entitled to priority if, within the meaning of
§ 3466, the bank made a voluntary assignment of its property or committed an act of bankruptcy.
That section is to be liberally construed. In Beaston v.
Farmers'Bank, 12 Pet. 102, Mr. Justice McKinley, speaking for the Court, said (p. 134): "All debtors to the
United States, whatever their character, and by whatever
mode bound, may be fairly included within the language
used

. . . And it is manifest, that congress intended

to give priority of payment to the United States over all
other creditors, in the cases stated therein. It, therefore,
lies upon those who claim exemption from the operation
of the statute, to show that they are not within its provisions.

.

.

- As this statute has reference to the pub-

lic good it ought to be liberally construed. United States
v. The State Bank of North Carolina,6 Pet. 29. As this
question has been fully decided by this court, other authorities need not be cited." The Bankruptcy Act does
not give the United States priority as to debts, but that
Act does not apply to banks; and there has been no Act of
Congress indicating any change of purpose as to debts due
from them to the United States. Cf. Davis v. Pringle,
268 U. S. 315, 317, 318; Sloan Shipyards v. United States
Fleet Corporation,258 U. S. 549, 574; Guarantee Co. v.
Title Guaranty Co., 224 U. S. 152, 158. There exists now
the same reasons for a liberal construction of the priority
act as when the rule was laid down.
The Act applies to all debts due from deceased debtors whenever their estates are insufficient to pay all cred-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

itors, and extends to all debts due from insolvent living
debtors when their insolvency is shown in any of the ways
stated in § 3466. The decisions of this court show that no
lien is created by the statute; that priority does not attach while the debtor continues the owner and in possession of the property; that no evidence can be received of
the insolvency of the debtor until he has been divested
of his property in one of the modes stated; and that,
"whenever he is thus divested of his property, the person
who becomes invested with the title, is thereby made a
trustee for the United States, and is bound to pay their
debt first out of the proceeds of the debtor's property."
Beaston v. Farmers' Bank, supra, 133, and cases cited;
United States v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253, 259.
Appellant, emphasizing the view that the priority act
does not apply unless insolvency is manifested in one of
the modes there indicated, contends that the resolution of
the board of directors was not a voluntary assignment and
did not divest the bank of the title; that, as the Bankruptcy Act does not apply to banks, there was no act of
bankruptcy committed; that, under the state law, title
remains in the bank after the superintendent takes possession and until he disposes of the property in the course
of liquidation. And to support the last contention, he
cites United States F. & G. Co. v. Bramwell, 108 Ore. 261,
287. The question in that case was whether the State, as
depositor in an insolvent bank taken over by the superintendent of banks, was entitled to priority as a sovereign
right. The court held that it was; and that its right was
not defeated by the taking of the property by an administrative officer of the State before the State asserted
its claim for priority; and that the bank's title was not
divested until the assets were sold in the course of liquidation.
The specified ways in which insolvency may be manifested include all cases in which an insolvent debtor makes

BRAMWELL v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
483

Opinion of the Court.

an assignment of his property; there is no xception, and
no regard is had to the purpose or manner of the assignment; and they include all cases in which an act of bankruptcy is committed under the laws of a State or under
a national bankruptcy law. Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Pet. 291,
307, 308; United States v. Oklahoma, supra, 262. The
priority act does not expressly require that the insolvent
debtor should be "divested" or that the person on whom
is imposed the duty to pay the United States first shall
become "invested" with the title. Appellant, arguing
that such transfer of title is necessary, stresses general
statements to that effect from opinions of this court. See
United States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73, 91; Conard v. Atlantic Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 386, 439; Beaston v. Farmers'
Bank, supra, 133, 136; United States v. Oklahoma, supra,
259. None involved the legal effect of acts similar to those
presented here. It is a rule of universal application that
general expressions used in a court's opinion are to be
taken in connection with the case under consideration.
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399. The language on
which appellant relies was properly used in respect of the
matters presented for decision in the cases cited by him.
But, when the passages are read in the light of the facts
considered and questions decided, they do not establish
that the things done in this case did not in substance and
effect amount to a voluntary assignment or to an act of
bankruptcy.
Section 3a (4) of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended February 5, 1903, c. 487, 32 Stat. 797, provides: "Acts of
bankruptcy by a person shall consist of his having
(4) made a general assignment for the benefit of
his creditors, or, being insolvent, applied for a receiver
or trustee for his property or because of insolvency a receiver or trustee has been put in charge of his property
under the laws of a State, of a Territory, or of the United
States." The fact that banks are not subject to that Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

is of no moment. The reference to an act of bankruptcy
in § 3466 is general, and is for the purpose of defining
one of the ways in which the debtor's insolvency may be
manifested. The priority given does not depend on any
proceeding under the bankruptcy laws of state or nation.
There is nothing in the language of the section, and no
reason has been suggested, to indicate a purpose to give
priority in the case of a debt due the United States from
a debtor subject to the Bankruptcy Act and to deny
priority, under like circumstances, when the debt is due
from an insolvent bank or other debtor to whom the Act
does not apply. The specification in § 3466 of the ways
insolvency may be manifested is aided by the designation in § 3467 of the persons made answerable for failure
to pay the United States first from the inadequate estates
of deceased debtors or from the insolvent estates of living
debtors. The persons held are "every executor, administrator, or assignee, or other person." The generality of
the language is significant. Taken together, these'sections
mean that a debt due the United States is required first
to be satisfied when the possession and control of the
estate of the iisolvent is given to any person charged with
the duty of applying it to the payment of the debts of
the insolvent, as the rights and priorities of creditors may
be made to appear.*
The statutes of the State (§ § 6220-6223) provide for the
handing over of the property "of insolvent banks to the
state superintendent of banks to be by him administered
and disposed of for the benefit of creditors. By the resolution of the directors in this case, the bank was wholly
divested of the possession and control of its property and
* Cf. Davis v. Pullen, 277 Fed. 650; Equitable Trust Co. v. Connecticut Brass & Mfg. Corp., 290 Fed. 712, 723; Davis v. MillerLink Lumber Co., 296 Fed. 649; Bramwell v. United States F. &
G. Co. (this case below), 299 Fed. 705; Davis v. Michigan Trust
Co., 2 Fed. (2d) 194; Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. v. Johnson
Shipyards Corp., 6 Fed. (2d) 752.

BRAMWELL v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
483

Opinion of the Court.

business; and the exclusive possession and control of them
passed to appellant for the purpose of liquidating the
debts of the bank. And, under the state law, when he
took possession of its assets, liens thereon, amounting in
all to more than the value of the property, attached in
favor of the depositors. § 6220(h). Uphamv. Bramwell,
105 Ore. 597, 606-609, 613. He was empowered, and it
became his duty, to collect all debts and claims belonging
to the bank, to sell its property under th6 direction of the
court, and to execute and deliver to purchasers deeds and
other instruments to evidence the passing of title to
them; and, if necessary to pay the bank's debts, he was
authorized to enforce the individual liability, if any, of
the stockholders. And it was his duty, out of the estate,
to pay expenses, and from time to time, as directed by
the court, to apply the funds remaining in his hands to
the payment of the bank's creditors according to their
rights and priorities. United States F. & G. Co. v. Bramwell, supra, 288. After 60 days had elapsed the bank
could not regain the property. § 6223(c). The state law
excludes all other methods for the liquidation of the debts
of insolvent banks. Appellant's duties were in substance
the same as those of a trustee having the legal title of
property for the purpose of converting it into money to
be paid over to specified persons. The state law required
him to perform the functions of an assignee, receiver or
trustee for the liquidation of the debts of an insolvent.
See Sargent v. American Bank and Trust Co., 80 Ore. 16,
26. Appellant had a power that for present purposes had
the same effect as a title, and that is enough.
The effect of the resolution of the bank directors is the
same as if it expressly granted and imposed upon appellant all the powers and duties in respect of the bank's
property and the liquidation of its debts that are specified
in the state law. The resolution authorized and was followed by the handing over of the possession and control

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

269 U. S.

of all the bank's property to be converted into money to
pay the bank's debts. The act of the directors made the
bank's insolvency notorious. The established rule of liberal construction requires that the priority act be applied
having regard to the public good it was intended to advance. Its application is not to be narrowly restricted to
the cases within the literal and technical meaning of the
words used. The things done in this case are not different in their substance from the things specified as the
ways in which insolvency is required to be made manifest.
It must be held that, within the meaning of the priority
act, the bank made a voluntary assignment of its property; and that, because of the bank's insolvency, a trustee was put in charge of its property under a state law
within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act.
Decree affirmed.
PRICE, RECEIVER, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FO.
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 454.

THE

Submitted November 23, 1925.-Decided January 11, 1926.

1. Taxes due the United States are "debts" within the meaning of
Rev. Stats. § 3466, giving the United States priority in certain
cases. P. 499.
2. Rev. Stats. § 3466 is to be construed liberally. P. 500.
3. The joining by a defendant corporation in securing a receivership
in a suit by a simple contract creditor, to take over the defendant's
property and business for the purpose of conserving them and paying creditors, amounts to a voluntary assignment, within the meaning of § 3466, Rev. Stats., where the business is in a failing condition and turns out to be insolvent so that the assets are a trust
fund for the creditors according to their priorities. P. 502.
6 Fed. (2d) 758, affirmed.

to a jdgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming an order of the District Court directing a
CERTIORARI

