WESTERN UNION v. GEORGIA.
Counsel for Parties.

55

perceive no requirement that the Secretary should go
further than to apply to the Attorney General. Moreover, the Secretary's letter certainly showed that he
thought the suit would be advantageous to the Government, and we should be slow to suppose that the precise
shade of his opinion upon the point affected the jurisdiction of the Court.
Judgment affirmed.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
STATE OF GEORGIA, AS OWNER OF WESTERN
& ATLANTIC R. R., ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 24.

Argued October 9, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. A law authorizing suits in behalf of the State for the assertion of
its title to property does not impair any contract rights that a
party thus proceeded against may have in the subject matter.
P. 68.
2. Consequently an adjudication for the State is not reviewable in
this court by the defendant on the ground that the statute authorizing the suit violated the contract clause of the Constitution. Id.
Writ of error to review 156 Ga. 409, dismissed; certiorari denied.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
affirming a decree denying the claim of the Telegraph
Company to an easement of way in railroad property
owned by the State, and enjoining the Company to
remove its wires, poles and structures. Certiorari also
was applied for, and denied.
Messrs. John G. Milburn and Francis Raymond Stark,
with whom Messrs. Arthur Heyman and William L. Clay
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry C. Peeples, with whom Messrs. Fitzgerald
Hall and Hooper Alexander were on the briefs, for
defendants in error.

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

MR. JusTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit by the State of Georgia and the Nashville,
Chattanooga and St. Louis Railway for a decree enjoining
the Western Union Telegraph Company from occupying
or using any part of the right of way of the Western and
Atlantic Railroad, a road built and owned by the State
and let by it to the Railway company that joins with it
as a plaintiff in this suit. The Telegraph Company claims
a perpetual right of way over the State owned road by
virtue of three alleged contracts. The trial Court decided that the Telegraph Company had no right in the
premises, ordered it to remove its wires, poles and structures from the plaintiffs' right of way within twelve
months from the final determination of the cause, and
enjoined it from occupying or using the right of way after
that time. This decree was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Georgia by an equally divided Court. 156 Ga.
409. The case is brought here by writ of error on the
ground that the statutes warranting these proceedings
impaired the obligation of the alleged contracts. There
is also a petition for a writ of certiorari filed out of caution, but the only federal question is that raised by the
writ of, error and therefore the petition for a writ of
certiorari is denied.
The first, and in this case the only question to be decided is whether the statutes relied upon have been given
an effect impairing the obligation of any contract that the
Telegraph Company may have. The statutes are an Act
of November 30, 1915, and one of August 4, 1916, amending the former. The Act of. 1915 provided for the letting
of the Western and Atlantic Railroad and created a Commission to determine among other things the extent and
character of every use of the right of way by anyone other
than the lessee, and the authority for the same. The
Commission was to prepare bills for the General Assembly

WESTERN UNION v. GEORGIA.
67

Opinion of the Court.

carrying into effect any recommendation that it might
make with respect to what steps should be taken to assert
the title of the State to any part of the right of way or
the road that might be adversely used. By the amendment the Commission was given power to deal with encroachments on the way and to determine whether they
should be moved and discontinued and to take such action
as it deemed proper to cause the removal, and to that end
"the Commission is authorized and empowered to institute and prosecute, in the name and behalf of the State of
Georgia, such suits and other legal proceedings as it may
deem appropriate in protection of the State's interest, or
the assertion of the State's title." Under this statute the
Commission, reciting that it was advised by its counsel
that the occupation of the way by the Telegraph Company was without lawful authority, resolved that the
counsel be instructed to institute suit for the removal of
the encroachment in the name of the State, provided that
the lessees should join in the suit and pay the costs.
Thereupon this proceeding was begun.
This is all, and it is not enough to give the Telegraph
Company a standing here. The statutes do not prejudge
the Telegraph Company's case, or any case. They do not
purport to subject the Company to any prohibition or
command, or to determine or qualify the Company's
rights; they do not attempt to delegate power to do so
to the Commission. They do not even point out the
Telegraph Company. So far as material to this case, they
simply authorize the Commission to inquire, and in case
it finds any encroachment that.it believes unlawful, to sue.
In Columbia Ry., Gas & Electric Co. v. South Carolina,
261 U. S. 236, the State law undertook to treat what this
Court held to be only a covenant as a condition subsequent and as having entailed a forfeiture. The suit was
brought upon this statute and a judgment rendered for
the State in its courts was held to have given effect to the

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

statutory attempts to enlarge the obligations of the Railway Company under a grant from the State. The difference between that case and this is plain. A mere
authority to test disputed rights by a suit does net impair the obligation of a contract upon which a defendant
relies When a claim is set up under a contract the Constitution does not forbid litigation to decide whether one
was made or what it means. St. Paul Gaslight Ca. v.
St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 149. -MercantileTrust & Deposit
Co. v. Columbus, 203 U. S. 311, 321. Des Moines v. Des
Moines City Ry. Co., 214 U. S. 179. South Covington &
Cincinnati Street. Ry. Co. v. Newport, 259 U. S. 97,
99, 100.
' The statutes in question are still more remote from
those which while valid on their face axe construed by the
State Courts to apply to a matter not subject to state
control. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257
U. S. 282. Here there was no attempt to control otherwise than by the result of a suit in which the Telegraph
Company could set up all its alleged contracts and protect
all its constitutional rights. The plaintiff in error shows
no law impairing the obligation of contracts and therefore
no ground for coming here. See Cross Lake Shooting &
Fishing Club v. Louisiana,224 U. S. 632, 639; Tidal Oil
Co. v. Flanagan,263 U. S. 444, 452.
Writ of error dismissed.

