20

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
269 U. S.

Syllabus.

AGNELLO
CERTIORARI

TO THE

ET AL. V.
CIRCUIT

UNITED STATES.
COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 6. Argued April 23, 125.-Decided October 12, 1925.
1. The right without a search warrant contemporaneously to search
persons lawfully arrested while committing crime and to search the
place where the arrest is made in order to find and seize things
connected with the crime as its fruits or as the means by which it
was committed, as well as weapons and other things to effect an
escape from custody, is not to be doubted. P. 30.
2. But this right, which is incidental to the arrest, can not extend to
the search of a man's dwelling, several blocks distant from the place
of his arrest, after the offense has been committed, and while he
is in custody elsewhere. Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132,
distinguished. Id.
3. So held, assuming that the house searched, which was the house of
one A who had shortly before been arrested with others who were
in the act of consummating a conspiracy to violate the AntiNarcotic Act by selling cocaine without having registered and paid
the prescribed tax, was the place from which the cocaine sold had
been taken by some of the defendants to the place of sale; and that
other cocaine, discovered in the house by the search, was there in
A's control in violation of the Act, was subject to forfeiture thereunder, and was part of the cocaine constituting the subject-matter
of the conspiracy. Id.
4. Belief, however well founded, that an article sought is concealed
in a dwelling house, furnishes no justification for a search in the
house without a warrant; such searches are unlawful notwithstanding facts unquestionably showing probable cause. P. 32.
5. When properly invoked, the Fifth Amendment protects every person from incrimination by the use of evidence obtained through
search or seizure made in violation of his rights under the Fourth
Amendment. P. 33.
6. Where, by uncontroverted facts, it appears that a search and seizure were made in violation of the Fourth Amendment, there is no
reason why one whose rights have been so violated and whom it
is sought to incriminate by evidence so obtained, may not invoke protection of the Fifth Amendment immediately, by objection

AGNELLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Argument for Petitioners.

to the evidence, without having made any application for the
return of the thing seized. P. 34.
7. Evidence of an unlawful search of an accused person's house and
of seizure therein of an incriminating article, can not be introduced
against him at the trial as evidence in rebuttal of his testimony on
cross-examination that he never saw the article. P. 35.
8. Where several are tried jointly and convicted for conspiracy, erroneous admission of evidence of an unlawful search and seizure in
the dwelling of one will not require a reversal as to the others, if
the evidence was adduced only against the one, in proof of guilty
knowledge and intent in performing acts with the others for executing the conspiracy, since they would be equally guilty whether he
acted as guilty participant or as their innocent agent. P. 35.
290 Fed. 671, reversed in part; affirmedlm part.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a conviction and judgment in the District
Court on a prosecution of the petitioners (named in the
opinion) for conspiracy to violate the Federal Narcotic
Tax Act.

Mr. George Gordon Battle, with whom Mr: Isaac H.
Levy was on the briefs, for petitioners.
There was error in the admission, over proper objection,
of evidence obtained by an unlawful search and seizure.
Youmans v. Commonwealth, 189 Ky. 159; People v.
Chiagles, 237 N. Y. 193; Entick v. Carrington, 19 How.
St. Trials, 1029; Burns v. Erben, 40 N. Y. 463. People
ex rel. Kingsley, 22 Hun, 300, distinguished.
This Court has without deviation applied the principle
that a search of person or of residence, or a seizure of
property or effects, may not be had for the mere purpose
of obtaining evidence. In contrast with this simple rule,
we have here suggested for the first time a test derived,
not from the words of the Amendment, but from an exception to the rule. The reasonableness and justification of
the arrest, are made tlje standards for determining the
reasonableness of the sarch, or of the right to make it.
And the exception .to the rule that permits a person at the

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioners.

269 U.S.

time of arrest to be searched for the instruments of his
offense, or to deprive him of the means of resistance or
escape, grows not only to over-shadow, but to supplant
the rule to .which it is an exception. With the result that
the belief of a revenue agent is made to satisfy the provision of the Constitution that secures home and person
against search until a magistrate entrusted with judicial
functions is satisfied by oath that there exists probable
cause for the search.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is contrary to the decisions of this Court. Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616; Cooley's Const. Lim., p. 374; Hale,
2 P. C., p. 150; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States,
251 U. S.385; Entick case, supra; Weeks v. United States,
232 U. S. 383; Amos v. United States, 255 U. S.313.
Even upon the principle adopted by the court below,
the search by the officers was not justified, since they did
not have such probable cause as would have justified the
issuance of a search warrant. Cooley Const. Lim., p. 367.
The possession of opium is not an offense under the
Harrison Act. A warrant to search the premises for
narcotics cannot be granted merely upon proof that narcotics will be found upon the premises, but upon proof
the United States is
that a crime against the statute cif
by the sale of narpremises
the
upon
committed
being
the United States.
to
forfeitable
cotics. Narcotics are not
Search warrants, it is said in Gouled v. United States, 255
U. S.309, "may not be used as a means of gaining access
to a man's house or office and papers solely for the purpose of making search to secure evidence to be used
against him in a criminal or penal proceeding, but that
they may be resorted to only when a primary right to
such search and seizure may be found in the interest
which the public or the complainant may have in the
property to be seized, or in the right to the possession of
it, or when a valid exercise of the police power renders

AGNELLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Argument for the United States.

possession of the property by the accused unlawful and
provides that it may be taken."
The Revenue Agents had no information that justified
the issuance of a search warrant upon the ground that a
crime was being committed at No. 167 Columbia Street.
Assuming that the information they possessed was probable cause to believe that cocaine would be found in the
bedroom, then a search warrant issued after the arrest
would have been a warrant to search for evidence. No
search is reasonable if the officer who makes it would
have been unable to make oath or affirmation to facts
that would establish probable cause, and would designate
the place or person to be searched, Ganci v. United States,
287 Fed. 65. "Probable cause" as used in the Fourth
Amendment does not mean mere inference or supposition.
The oath or affirmation required must be as to facts. The
purpose of an oath is to subject the affiant to prosecution
for perjury if he bears false witness. The court or magistrate acts judicially. It is obvious, therefore, that the
ground of belief and the basis of probable cause must
consist of facts, and not mere suppositions.
The Court is confined to the facts shown by the record
to have been known to the particular agents who made
the search. The search cannot be justified by its results;
nor by what the officers whc made the search may later
have learned from the stool pigeons, Dispenza and
Napolitana.
The indictment does not state facts sufficient to constitute a crime. It does not charge a conspiracy to sell
within the United States. The sale of cocaine without
the United States is not an offense.
Assistant to the Attorney GeneralDonovan, vith whom
Solicitor General' Mitchell was on the brief, for the
United States.
The article seized was not a thing which had merely
evidentiary value, but a thing inherently vicious, used

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

269 U. S.

as the means of committing crime, analogous to burglars'
tools or lottery tickets. Commonwealth v. Dana,2 Metc.
(Mass.) 329. In the second place, the seizure was practically contemporaneous with the arrest. The arrest was
lawfully made without a warrant, for a felony committed
in the actual sight and presence of the officers; and, immediately thereafter, a search was made in the place
whence the officers themselves had just seen the culprits
emerge. This search disclosed the can of cocaine hydrochloride, an article used in the commission of crime, in
the bedroom of one of the persons just arrested. Finally,
no demand was made by the defendants, either before or
during the trial, fdr the return of the articles seized,
although they must have known of the seizure. Adams
v. New York,. 192 U. S. 585; Weeks v. United States, 232
U. S. 383.
An officer who arrests a person for felony committed
in his presence may search not merely the person, but
also the place where he is discovered, and other places in
the immediate vicinity which are clearly indicated as
having formed part of the scene of the crime. Dillon v.
O'Brien, 16 Cox C. C. 245; Getchell v. Page, 103 Me. 387;
Kneeland v. Connally, 70 Ga. 424; 1 Bishop, Cr. Proc.,
§ 211 (2d Ed.); 1 Wharton, Cr. Proc., § 97 (10th Ed.).
The foregoing were cited with approval in Carroll v.
United States, 267 U. S. 132. See also, People v.
Chiagles, 237 N. Y. 193, affirming 204 App. Div. 706;
People v. Cona, 180 Mich. 641; Smith v. Jerome, 47 Misc.
(N. Y.) 22; State v. Mausert, 88 N. J. L. 286; Closson
v. Morrison, 47 N. H. 482; Spalding v. Preston, 21 Vt. 9.
The Constitution protects from unreasonable searches.
It is admitted that searches axe not necessarily reasonable
when they are made under warrants, for the warrant may
have been issued for an improper purpose. Robinson v.
Richardson, 13 Gray (Mass.), 454. A search without
warrant may be reasonable when made upon probable

AGNELLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Argument for the United States.

cause. Carroll v. United States, supra. Sanctity of the
home is no greater than sanctity of the person. Indeed,
the immunity of the person from arbitrary arrest is more
highly prized than the immunity of the home from arbiIrary search.
The officers were undoubtedly apprised by their senses
that a crime was committed in their presence by the selling of narcotics at 138 Union Street. They were also
apprised by their senses that the instrument of the crime
was concealed in the places where the search was afterwards made. Two of the officers saw the sale through the,
window. Two had seen all the defendants (except Alba)
emerge from No. 167 Columbia Street a few minutes before the arrest. The Government's informers, Napolitano
and Dispenza, had been told by Centorino that he would
go out to his friend's house and bring back the stuff. The
officers knew, before makihg the arrests, that a sale of
drugs would be consummated at 138 Union Street. They
knew, moreover, that the supply was coining from some
other house in the vicinity. Bat until the i.ight of the
arrests there was nothing to show them from hi-14
house; so it would have been imnptssible to apply for a
search warrant in advance.
It is submitted that where an officer may arrel.t %vithout
warrant, he may also at that same time search without
warrant in any place in the immediate vicinity where it is
clearly indicated that the instruments of the crime (not
evidence merely) are hidden. Milam v. United States,
296 Fed. 629; Lambert v. United States, 282 Fed. 413;
Vachina v. United States, 283 Fed. 35; McBride v. United
States, 284 Fed. 416; Herine v. United States, 276 Fed.
806; United States v. Hart, 214 Fed. 655; Ex parte Morrill, 35 Fed. 261. According to. the rule laid down in the
case last cited, it might well be argued that a crime was
committed in the presence of the officers, not only at 138
Union Street, the place of the arrest, but also at 167

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

269 U. S.

Columbia Street, the place of the search. The officers
had probable cause' for the search as well as for the arrest
under the recent decidion of this Court 'in the Carroll
case, supra. Cf. Stacey v. Emery, 97 U. S. 642. And
upon this theory, the search would of itself be clearly
valid, even when viewed apart from the arrest.
No demand was made on behalf of Agnello or any of
the other defendants for the return of the narcotic,
although they must have known of the seizure. There is
not a word in- the record to show that the defendants were
taken by surprise by the introduction in evidence of the
seized article. Even after the Government had sought,
unsuccessfully, to introduce the seized article as part of
its main case, the- defendants made no motion for its
return, but contented themselves with objecting to its
admission in evidence. Under these circumstances, there
is no room to apply Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S.
298, or Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313.
his -urt has never receded from the doctrine enunciated in Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, and Weeks
v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, that a collateral issue as
to the source of evidence will not be permitted to interrupt a criminal trial, unless the ground has been prepared
by a timely motion for the return of the articles alleged
to have been wrongly taken. Weeks v. United States
lays down the requirement of a preliminary motion for
the return of articles unlawfully seized. Gouled v.
United States dispenses with the necessity for this motion
where it is obvious that the defendant is taken by surprise
and had no opportunity to make the motion before trial.
Again, the evidence of the search was used only as a
medium of discrediting the witness, and was not used as
a direct part of the Government's main case, or as an
indirect clue toward obtaining other evidence. In this
respect the case differs from all the previous cases in which
this Court has discountenanced the practice of unlawful

AGNELLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Opinion of the Court.

search and seizure to obtain evidence on which to build
up a case against the defendant. Here the Government's
case was complete without resort to the evidence of the
search; and the error, if it existed, was not prejudicial.
Laughter v. United States, 259 Fed. 94, 100. Certiorari
denied, 249 U. S. 613; Judicial Code, § 269, as amended
by Act of February 26, 1919, c. 48, 40 Stat. 1181; Hall
v. United States, 277 Fed. 19; Rich v. United States, 271
Fed. 566.
In any event, the evidence of the search and seizure
tended to prejudice only the defendant Agnello. The
other defendants are not entitled to object. The case
against them was complete without that evidence, and
the jury was fully warranted in finding them guilty.
Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347; Isaacs v. United
States, 159 U. S. 487.
The indictment states that the defendants conspired in
Brooklyn, and sets forth as one of the overt acts a transportation and sale in Brooklyn. An indictment for conspiracy need do no more than this. Hyde v. United
States, 225 U. S. 347; Wallace v. United States, 243 Fed.
300; certiorari denied, 245 U. S. 650; Vane v. United
States, 254 Fed. 28.
It also states that the conspiracy was to sell "without
having first registered with the Collector of Internal
Revenue of this district." It is a reasonable inference
that the sale was to be made within the United States
and within the particular Internal Revenue district where
the Grand Jury was sitting.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Thomas Agnello, Frank Agnello, Stephen Alba, Antonio
Centorino and Thomas Pace were indicted in the District
Court, Eastern District of New York, under § 37, Criminal
Code, c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1096, for a conspiracy to
,'violate the Harrison Act, c. 1, 38 Stat. 785, as amended by

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

§§1006, 1007, 1008 of the Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40
Stat. 1057, 1130. The indictment charges that defendants
conspired together to sell cocaine without having registered with the Collector of Internal Revenue and without
having paid the prescribed tax. The overt acts charged
are that defendants had cocaine in their possession,
solicited the sale of it, met in the home of defendant Alba
at 138 Union Street, Brooklyn, and made arrangements
for the purpose of selling it, brought a large quantity of
it to that place, and sold it in violation of the Act. The
jury found defendants guilty. Each was sentenced to
serve two years in the penitentiary and to pay a fine of
$5,000. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. 290 Fed. 671.
The evidence introduced by the Government was sufficient to warrant a finding of the following facts: Pasquale Napolitano and Nunzio Dispenza, employed by
government revenue agents for that purpose, went to the
home of Alba, Saturday, January 14, 1922, and there offered to buy narcotics from Alba and Centorino. Alba
gave them some samples. They arranged to come again
on Monday following. They returned at the time agreed.
Six revenue agents and a city policeman followed them
and remained on watch outside. Alba left the house and
returned with Centorino. They did not then produce
any drug. After discussion and the refusal of Napolitano
and Dispenza to go to Centorino's house to get the drug,
Centorino went to fetch it. He was followed by some of
the agents. He first went to his own house, 172 Columbia
Street; thence to 167 Columbia Street,-one part of which
was a grocery store belonging to Pace and Thomas
Agnello, and another part of which, connected with the
grocery store, was the home of Frank Agnello and Pace.
In a short time, Centorino, Pace and the Agnellos came
out of the last mentioned place, and all went to Alba's
house. Looking through the windows- those on watch saw

AGNELLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Opinion of the Court.

Frank Agnello produce a number of small packages for
delivery to Napolitano and saw the latter hand over
money to Alba. Upon the apparent consummation of the
sale, the agents rushed in and arrested all the defendants.
They found some of the packages on the table where the
transaction took place and found others in the pockets of
Frank Agnello. All contained cocaine. On searching
Alba, they found the money given him by Napolitano.
And as a part of its case in chief, the Government offered testimony tending to show that, while some of the
revenue agents were taking the defendants to the police
station, the others and the city policeman went to the
home of Centorino and earched it but did not find any
narcotics; that they then went to 167 Columbia Street
and searched it, and in Frank Agnello's bedroom found a
can of cocaine which was produced and offered in evidence.
The evidence was excluded on the ground that the search
and seizure were made without a search warrant. In
defense, Centorino and others gave testimony to the effect that the packages of cocaine which were brought to
and seized in Alba's house at the time of the arrests had
been furnished to Centorino by Dispenza to induce an ap-.
parent sale of cocaine to Napolitano; that is, to incite
crime or acts having the appearance of crime, for the purpose of entrapping and punishing defendants. Centorino
testified that, after leaving Napolitano and Dispenza with
Alba at the latter's home, he went to hi* own house and
got the packages of cocaine which had been given him by
Dispenza and took them to 167 Columbia Street, and
there gave them to Frank Agnello to be taken to Alba's
house. Frank Agnello testified on direct examination that
he received the packages from Centorino but that he did
not know their contents, and that he would not have carried them if he had] known that they contained cocaine
or narcotics. On cross examination, he said that he had
never seen narcotics. Then, notwithstanding objection

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

by defendants, the prosecuting attorney produced the can
of cocaine which the Government claimed was seized in
Agnello's bedroom and asked him whether he had ever
seen it. He said he had not, and specifically stated he
had never seen it in his house. In rebuttal, over objections of defendants, the Government was permitted to put
in the evidence of the search and seizure of the can of
cocaine in Frank Agnello's room, which theretofore had
been offered and excluded.
The case involves the questions whether search of the
house of Frank Agnello and seizure of the cocaine there
found, without a search warrant, violated the Fourth
Amendment, and whether the admission of evidence of
such search and seizure violated the Fifth Amendment.
The Fourth Amendment is: "The right of the people to
be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects,
against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be
violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable
cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly
describing the place to be searched, and the persons or
things to be seized." The provision of the Fifth Amendment invoked is this: "No person . . . shall be compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against himself."
The right without a search warrant contemporaneously
to search persons lawfully arrested while committing
crime and to search the place where the arrest is made in
order to find and seize things connected with the crime as
its fruits or as the means by which it was committed, as
well as weapons and other things to effect an escape from
custody, is not to be doubted. See Carroll v. United
States, 267 U. S. 132, 158; Weeks v. United States, 232
U. S. 383, 392. The legality of the arrests or of the
searches and seizures made at the home of Alba is not
questioned. Such searches and seizures naturally and
usually appertain to and attend such arrests. But the
right does not extend to other plazes. Frank Agnello's

AGNELLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Opinion of the Court.

house was several blocks distant from Alba's house, where
the arrest was made. When it was entered and searched,
the conspiracy was ended and the defendants were under
arrest and in custody elsewhere. That search cannot be
sustained as an incident of the arrests. See Silverthorne
Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385, 391; People
v. Conway, 225 Mich. 152; Gamble v. Keyes, 35 S. D.
645, 650.
Under the Harrison Act (§ 8; § 1 as amended by
§ 1006) it is unlawful for any person who has not registered and paid a special tax, to.have cocaine in his possession, and all unstamped packages of such drug found
in his possession are subject to forfeiture. We assume,
as contended by the Government, that defendants obtained from Frank Agnello's house the cocaine that was
taken to Alba's house and there seized; that the can of
cocaine which later was found in Agnello's house was
unlawfully in his control and subject to seizure, and that
it was a part of the cocaine which was the subject matter
of the conspiracy.
The Government cites Carrollv. United States, supra;
but it does not support the search and seizure complained
of. That case involved the legality of a search of an
automobile and the seizure of intoxicating liquors being
transported therein in violation of the National Prohibition Act. The search and seizure were made by prohibition agents without a warrant. After reference to various
acts of Congress relating to the seizure of contraband
goods, the court said (p. 153): "We have made a somewhat extended reference to these statutes to show that
the guaranty of freedom from unreasonable searches and
seizures by the Fourth Amendment has been construed.,
practically since the beginning of the.Government, as
recognizing a necessary difference between a search of a
store, dwelling house or other structure in respect of which
a proper official warrant readily may be obtained, aud a

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

search of a ship, motor boat, wagon or automobile, for
contraband goods, where it is not practicable to secure a
warrant because the vehicle can be quickly moved out of
the locality or jurisdiction in which the warrant must be
sought." It was held that, "The facts and circumstances
within their knowledge and of which they had reasonably
trustworthy information were sufficient in themselves to
warrant a man of reasonable caution in the belief that
intoxicating liquor was being transported in the automobile which they stopped and searched." (p. 162.) And
on that ground the court held the search and seizure without warrant justified.
While the question has never been directly decided by
this court, it has always been assumed that one's house
cannot lawfully be searched without a search warrant,
except as an incident to a lawful arrest therein. Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S.616, 624, et seq., 630; Weeks v.
United States, supra, 393; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v.
United States, supra, 391; Gouled v. United States, 255
U. S. 298, 308. Theprotection of the Fourth Amendment
extends to all equally,-to those justly suspected or accused, as well as to the innocent. The search of a private
dwelling without a warrant is in itself unreasonable and
abhorrent to our laws. Congress has never passed an act
purporting to authorize the search of a house without a
warrant. On the other hand, special limitations have
been set about the obtaining of search warrants for that
purpose. Thus, the National Prohibition Act, approved
October 28, 1919, c. 85, Tit. II,§ 25, 41 Stat. 305, 315,
provides that no search warrant shall issue to search any
private dwelling occupied as such unless it is being used
for the unlawful sale of intoxicating liquor or is in part
used for business purposes, such as store, shop, saloon,
restaurant, hotel or boarding house. And later, to the
end that government employees without a warrant shall
not invade the homes of the people and violate the priva-

AGNLLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Opinion of the Court.

cies of life, Congress 'made it a criminal offense, punishable
by heavy penalties, for any officer, agent or employee of
the United States engaged in the enforcement of any law
to search a private dwelling house. without a warrant
directing such search. Act of November 23, 1921, c. 134,
§ 6, 42 Stat. 222, 223. Safeguards similar to the Fourth
Amendment are deemed necessary and have been provided in the constitution or laws of every State of the
Union.* We think there is no state statute authorizing
the search of a house without a warrant; and, in a number
of state laws recently enacted for the enforcement of prohibition in respect of intoxicating liquors, there are provisions similar to those in § 25 of the National Prohibition
Act. -Save in certain cases as incident to arrest, there is
no sanction in the decisions of the courts, federal or state,
for the search of a privateddwelling house without a warrant. Absence of any judicial approval is persuasive authority that it is unlawful. See Entick v. Carrington,19
Howard's State Trials, 1030, 1066. Belief, however well
founded, that an article sought is concealed in a dwelling
house furnishes no justification for a search of that place
without a warrant. And such searches are held unlawful
notwithstanding facts unquestionably showing probable
cause. See Temperani v. United States, 299 Fed. 365;
United States v. Rembert, 284 Fed. 996, 1000; Connelly
v. United States, 275 Fed. 509; McClurg v. Brenton, 123
Ia. 368, 372; People v. Margolis, 220 Mich. 431; Childers
v. Commonwealth, 198 Ky. 848; State v. Warfield, 184
Wis. 56. The search of Frank Agnello's house and seizure
of the can of cocaine violated the Fourth Amendment.
It is well settled that, when properly invoked, the Fifth
Amendment protects every person from incrimination by
See p. 1268, Index Digest of State Constitutions (prepared for
New York State Constitutional Convention Commission, 1915); also
§ 8, c. 7, Consolidated Laws, New York, as amended by L. 1923, c. 80.
*

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the use of evidence obtained through search or seizure
made in violation of his rights under the Fourth Amendment. Boyd v. United States, supra, 630, et seq.; Weeks
v. United States, supra, 398; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v.
United States, supra, 391, 392; Gouled v. United States,
supra, 306; Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313, 316.
The Government contends th&t, even if the search and
seizure were unlawful, the evidence was admissible because no application on behalf of d4efendant was made to
the court for the return of the can of cocaine. The reason
for such application, where required, is that the court will
not pause in a criminal case to determine collateral issues
as to how the evidence was obtained. See Adams v. New
York, 192 U. S. 585, 594, affirming 176 N. Y. 351. But in
this case, the facts disclosing that the search and seizure
violated the Fourth Amendment were not in controversy.
They were shown by the examination of the witness called
to give the evidence. There was no search warrant; and
from the first, the position of the Government has been
that none was necessary. In substance, Frank Agnello
testified that he never had possession of the can of cocaine
and never saw it until it was produced in court. There is
nothing to show that, in advance of its offer in evidence,
he knew that the Government claimed it had searched his
house and found cocaine there, or that the prosecutor intended to introduce evidence of any search or seizure. It
would be unreasonable to hold that he was bound to apply
for the return of an article which he maintained he never
had. Where, by uncontroverted facts, it appears that a
search and seizure were made in violation of the Fourth
Amendment, there is no reason why one whose rights have
been so violated and who is sought to be incriminated by
evidence so obtained, may not invoke protection of the
Fifth Amendment immediately and without any application for the return of the thing seized. "A rule of practice
must not be allowed for any technical reason to prevail over

AGNELLO v. UNITED STATES.
20

Opinion of the Court.

a constitutional right." Gouled v. United States, supra,
313. And the contention that the evidence of the search
and seizure was admissible in rebuttal is without merit.
In his direct examination, Agnello was not asked and did
not testify concerning the can of cocaine. In cross-examination, in answer toq a question permitted over his
objection, he said he had never seen it. He did nothing
to waive his constitutional protection or to justify crossexamination in respect of the evidence claimed to have
been obtained by the search. As said in Silverthorne
Lumber Co. v. .United States, supra, 392, "The essence
of a provision forbidding the acquisition of evidence in a
certain way is that not merely evidence so acquired shall
not be used before the Court but that it shall not be used
at all." The admission of evidence obtained by the search
and seizure was error and prejudicial to the substantial
rights of Frank Agnello. The judgment against him must
be set aside and a new trial awarded.
But the judgment against the other defendants may
stand. The introduction of the evidence of the search and
seizure did not transgress their constitutional rights. And
it was not prejudicial error against them. The possession
by Frank Agnello of the can of cocaine which was seized
tended to show guilty knowledge and criminal intent on
his part; but it was not submitted as attributable to the
other defendants. During the summing up of the case to
the jury by the prosecuting attorney, the court distinctly
indicated that the evidence was admissible only against
Frank Agnello. The other defendants did not requestany instruction to the jury in reference to the matter, and
they do not contend that any erroneous instruction was
given. Isaacs v. United States, 159 U. S. 487, 491.
The packages of cocaine seized at Alba's house were
carried to that place by Frank Agnello. He did this at
the instance of Centorino; and in his behalf it is claimed
he acted innocently and without knowledge of the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

269 U. S.

tents of the package. The evidence of the search and
seizure made in his house tended to show that he knew
what he was doing and was a willing participant in the
conspiracy charged. But so far as concerns the other
defendants, it is immaterial whether he acted innocently
and without knowledge of the contents of the package or
knowingly to effect the object of the conspiracy. In either
case, his act would be equally chargeable to his codefendants. They are not entitled to a new trial. See Rossi v.
United States, 278 Fed. 349, 354; Belfi v. United States,
259 Fed. 822, 828; Feder et al. v. United States, 257 Fed
694; Browne v. United States, 145 Fed. 1, 13; United
States v. Cohn, 128 Fed. 615, 626.
Judgment against Frank Agnello reversed; judgment against other defendants affirmed.
DRUGGAN v. ANDERSON, U. S. MARSHAL,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 415.

Argued October 5, 6, 1925.-Decided October .19, 1925.

1. Although by the terms of the Eighteenth Amendment the prohibition thereby decreed did not go into force until one year from the
ratification (January 16, 1919) of the Article, the anendment itself
became effective as a law upon its ratification and empowered
Congress thereupon to legislate in anticipation for the enforcement of the proh'bition when the year should expire, without
awaiting that event. P. 38.
2. A preliminary injunction issued under § 22 of Title II of the
Prohibition Act, without the notice required by Equity Rule 73
and the Act of October 15, 1914, is not void. P. 40.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from an order of the District Court dismissing
a petition for habeas corpus. The imprisonment in-question was imposed upon the petitioner for disobedience of
an injunction issued under the Prohibition .Act.

