OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

90

Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S'

Stuart v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1, 14; National Bank of
Athens v. Shackelford, 239 U. S. 81, 82; Yuma County
Water Ass'n. v. Schlecht, 262 U. S. 138, 146; United States
v. State Investment Co., 264 U. S. 206, 211.
No question is presented which can be regarded as
debatable in this Court, so there is no need for holding
the case for further argument.
Decree affirmed.

LIPSHITZ & COHEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE 14ORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 68.

Argued October 21, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

An agent of the United States listed junk for sale at several forts,
the list setting forth the kinds, and weight of each, at each location, with a statement, however, that the weights shown were approximate and must be accepted as correct by the bidder. Plaintiffs, without.other information or inquiry, bid a lump sum for the
material, "as is where is," the purchaser to remove it; and the
offer was accepted. The quantities turned out to be much less
than those so listed. Held, a contract for the specific lots, without
warranty of quantity; and that plaintiffs, standing on the contract,
had no cause of action for the profits they would have made on
resale if the quantities had been as listed.
Affirmed.

to a judgment of the District Court in favor of
the United States, defendant in an action on a contract.
ERROR

Mr. Henry A. Alexander, for plaintiffs in error.
Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant to the Attorney
General Donovan, and Messrs. Howard W. Ameli and
Joseph Henry Cohen, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States.

LIPSHITZ & COHEN v. UNITED STATES.
90

91

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiffs in error seek to recover profits which, it is
alleged, would have been realized if the United States had
complied with their agreement to deliver approximately
1,530,600 pounds of obsolete material. The cause was
heard by the District Judge without a jury. He found the
facts and upon them held that the contract had not been
broken.
An agent of the United States put out a schedule which
stated that certain obsolete material, classed as cast iron,
cast and forged steel, armor steel, brass, bronze and lead,
was held for sale at six specified forts. It set out the
weights of each class at each place, and was headed-" List
of junk for sale and location of same. The weights as
shown below are approximate and must be accepted as correct by the bidder." Plaintiffs in error made a written
offer at the foot of the schedule sheet to pay $1,055, "for
all the above described material, as is where is, for which
we are enclosing you Cashier's check for 20% of the
amount-$21 1-with our option to remove material within
six months from acceptance of this bid. . . ." This
was accepted May 24, 1922. "At the time the offer was
made and accepted the plaintiff did not inspect the material for sale at any of the fortifications, and had no
knowledge of such material other than that given by the
contract. It was later found in junk piles at the various
forts."
In the following July the purchasers began to remove
the material and found nearly all items short. Aggregated, these shortages amounted to approximately onehalf of the total weight stated in the driginal schedule, but
there is nothing to indicate bad faith. They complained
but made no effort to repudiate or annul the contract.
Supporting his judgment in favor of the United States,
the District Judge said-" Since the Government is not in

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the business of buying and selling and its agents are authorized only to offer for sale such material as has been
condemned as obsolete or useless, taking the language of
this offer and acceptance I am of opinion that the contract must be construed as one offering to sell an approximate quantity of such cast iron, brass [cast and forged
steel, bronze, armor steel] or lead, and as one offering to
sell all of the materials of these descriptions which were
on hand at the various points named, the intention being
not to make a sale by the pound or ton, but to make an
entire sale of specific lots of obsolete material, whether
more or less than the weight, and to include all thereof.
I am satisfied that they [plaintiffs] cannot claim
that this contract, worded as it was, has been broken because it turned out that there was less, even greatly less,
of some of the materials described as on hand than the
description would have led the purchaser to suppose' It
is not made to appear that the United States failed or refused to deliver any of the material that was actually at
the forts named at the time the contract was made."
We approve this construction of the agreement. Applicable principles of law were announced by Mr. Justice
Bradley, speaking for the .ourt in Brawley v. United
States, 96 U. S. 168, 171. The negotiations had reference
to specific lots. The naming of quantities cannot be regarded as in the nature of a warranty, but merely as an
estimate of the probable amounts in reference to which
good faith only could be required of the party making it.
It is not necessary for us to consider whether the contract is sufficiently formal to comply with the requirements of R. S. 3744.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.

