CONCRETE APPLIANCES CO. v. GOMERY.

177

Statement of the Case.

CONCRETE

APPLIANCES COMPANY
GOMERY ET AL.

ET

AL.

V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 44.

Argued October 14, 15, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. Concurrent findings of the District Court and Circuit Court of
Appeals against the novelty of a patented device will be reviewed
by this Court when a contrary conclusion in respect of the same
patent claims has been reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals in
another circuit. P. 180.
2. Judicial notice taken, that the principle of conveying and distributing mobile substances by gravity has found exemplification
for centuries in apparatus for raising and distributing water.
P. 180.
3. In view of the state of the art, patent No. 948,719, (as to claims
1, 2, 5 and 13,) for a combination of apparatus, designed for transferring wet concrete, or other plastic materials, from a source of
supply to working points on a building or other structure in course
of construction, is void for want of invention; the combination being no more than an application of mechanical skill to known elements, in the course of a natural development of the art. P. 184.
4. The combination comprised: (1) a tower; (2) a boom, oscillatory
or swinging horizontally, adjustably connected with the tower and
adapted to be arranged at various points in its height; (3) a conduit carried by the boom, extending laterally from the tower, connected to it and adjustable vertically at varying heights in the
tower; (4) a means for raising plastic material to the height.
desired in the tower; and (5) a means for receiving the plastic
material from the raising means and conducting it to the conduit,
both the raising means and the receiving means being adjustable
vertically at varying heights in the tower.
291 Fed. 486, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

for the Third Circuit which affirmed a decree of the District Court (see 284 Fed. 518) dismissing the bill in a suit
to enjoin infringement of the petitioners' patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269-U. S.

Mr. Stephen J. Cox, with whom Messrs. Arthur M.
Hood and Cyrus N. Anderson were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. George Bayard Jones, with whom Messrs. Thomas
F. Sheridan and William Steell Jackson were on the brief,
for respondents.
MR. JusTcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

In an earlier suit petitioners sought to enjoin an in4ringement of the Callahan patent, No. 948,719, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit held the
patent valid. Concrete Appliance Co. v. Meinken, 262
Fed. 958. Later the present suit was brought in the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to
enjoin an infringement of the same patepnt by the respondents. The District Court expressed the opinion
that the claims of the patent did not involve invention,
but in deference to the determination in the Sixth Circuit, dismissed the petitioners' bill on the ground of noninfringement. 284 Fed. 518. On appeal, the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit held that the patent was invalid for want of invention. 291 Fed. 486. In
view of the conflict of decision, the writ of certiorari was
granted by this Court (264 U. S. 578) to review the determination in the Third Circuit. Thomson Co. v. Ford
Motor Co., 265 U. S. 445. Both suits involved claims
numbered 1, 2, 5 and 13 of the Callahan Patent for
"Material Transferring Apparatus" designed for use in
transferring concrete or other plastic materials from a
suitable source of supply to working points desired on a
building or other structure, in the course of construction.
In principle, the device concerned calls into operation
gravity, in conveying mobile substances from an elevated
central point to varying working points in building operations. The claims made by the patentee, which relate

CONCRETE APPLIANCES CO. v. GOMERY.
177

179

Opinion of the Court.

to a combination embraced in the apparatus described,
when paraphrased and separated into their constituent
elements, comprise: (1) a tower; (2) a boom oscillatory
or swinging horizontally, adjustably connected with the
tower and adapted to be arranged at various points in its
height; (3) a conduit carried by the boom, extending
laterally from the tower, connected to it and adjustable
vertically at varying heights in the tower; (4) a means
for raising plastic material to the height desired in the
tower; and (5) a means for receiving the plastic material
from the raising means and conducting it to the conduit,
both the raising means and the receiving means being
adjustable vertically at varying heights in the tower.
The apparatus described in the letters patent is capable
of use in conveying "wet ". or " mush " concrete from the
point where it is prepared for use and distributing it to
points where it is incorporated into a building in process
of construction. When the mixed concrete is in readiness
to be placed in the forms or moulds in which it is allowed
to "set" or harden into an integral part of the structure,
it is elevated by the "raising means," usually a bucket,
skip or other suitable conveyor, to the "receiving means,"
a hopper, in which the concrete is deposited. From
thence it flows by gravity into the conduit and through it
to the form or mould, which may be in any part of the
structure at a suitable level below the base of the hopper.
As the, building progresses, the conveyor, the hopper and
the attached conduit may be progressively raised within
the tower so that gravity may carry the flowing concrete
to any desired point at lower levels in the structure.
The several elements in the petitioners' claims which
we have enumerated embrace familiar devices long in
common use, separately or in smaller groups, both in
this and in kindred mechanical arts. It is not argued
that there is any novelty in such units or groups; and the
only serious question presented is whether, in combination

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U.S.

in the apparatus described, they constitute an invention.
That the combination embodied in the described apparatus produces a useful result in the mechanical arts and
in modified form is widely used'in building operations, is
established. Our inquiry, therefore, must be addressed
to the question whether the combination is novel and
whether it passes the line sonietimes tenuous and difficult
of ascertainment which separates mechanical skill from
invention. The pursuit of this inquiry involves a consideration of the state of the art prior to -Callahan's application, of which elaborate proof was made in the trial
court.
Because of an evident difference in the state of the proof
in the two cases, the adjudications of this patent by the
two circuit courts are, we think, only apparently conflicting. It is clear from an examination of the two records, the earlier of which is an exhibit in this suit, as well
as from the opinion of the court in the Sixth Circuit,
that that court did not have before it the detailed history
of the practical development of the art, which was elaborately proved in the present case and which convinced
both the District Judge and the Circuit Court of Appeals
in the Third Circuit that the plaintiff's appliance did not
embody an invention. The question thus presented is
one of fact; but notwithstanding the agreement of the two
courts below, on this aspect of the case, the difference in
result reached by the two circuit courts leads us to review
the salient features of the state of the art, at about
January, 1908, when, according to petitioners, Callahan
conceived the combination covered by the claims in his
patent. See Thompson Co. v. Ford Motor Co., supra,
447.
It is a fact of which we may take judicial notice (King
v. Gallun, 109 U. S. 99) that the principle of conveying
and distributing a mobile substance by gravity has found
exemplification for centuries, in apparatus for lifting

CONCRETE APPLIANCES CO. v. GOMERY.
177

181

Opinion of the Court.

water by power, in buckets or other convenient form of
conveyor, to a central reservoir from which its flow is
induced by gravity, through suitable conduits to fixed
points or through movable pipes or hose to varying selected points. Long prior to the Callahan application
the principle had been applied to other substances capable
of flow under the action of gravity, such as grain, coal,
crushed stone, sand and iron ore. The proof is abundant that by 1905 it was common practice in the erection
and use of grain elevators to provide for raising the grain
by endless belt or other conveyor to the top of the elevator; then to discharge it into a receptacle called a garner
or hopper, from which it flowed by gravity through pipes
or spouts having a swivel connection with the hopper
and swinging, laterally so that the lower end of the spout
was movable in the arc of a.circle. These spouts were
capable of .extension, variable at will, by attaching additional sections, appropriately swivelled, to the end of the
section of the spout connecting with the hopper. The
conduit or spout was supported, according to need and convenience, by an inclined cable attached at a suitable point
above to the elevator tower, or by pivoted boom or gaff
atfached to the tower of the elevator and capable of being
raised or lowered at its outer end. Apparatus of this type
was commonly and successfully used for the unloading and
sforage of grain and for loading it from storage on to
ships or cars in varying positions and distances from the
elevator tower; sectional or telescopic spouts attached to
the tower and to each other being used to secure the delivery of the grain in the desired direction, and' at desired
distances, the spout being raised or lowered and ,given
direction by the use of boom and tackle. On occasion
there was duplication of th6 apparatus oil board ship by
the use of a supplemental hopper and supplemental conduit or chute supported and controlled by boom and
tackle located on the ship.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

Similar apparatus was in use for the moving of coal by
.gravity through chutes so constructed as to be moved
either vertically or horizontally and supported by cable
or boom.
Before 1904-5 it was common practice for architects'
specifications to require that concrete used in building
operations be mixed "dry," that is, of a consistency
which would not admit of its ready flow by gravity.
This practice was resisted -by engineers and contractors
because it was cheaper and easier to use " wet" concrete,
which could be conveniently distributed through chutes
and conduits. For reasons which need not now be inquired into in detail, the use of "wet" concrete in various
types of structural work had become i recognized practice
by 1905. Co-temporaneously with its increasing use and,
as the proofs show, an active agency in inducing, it, was
the practical adaptation of the apparatus, used in moving
and distributing grain and other substances of simliar mobility, to all the requirements for the convenient handling
and distribution of concrete by gravity in building operations. Without attempting to refer to all of the numerous
instances of that adaptation it will be sufficient to indicate
some of the more significant examples which mark its
progress.
As early as 1902-3 in the construction of the Ingalls
Building in Cincinnati, an apparatus was used for elevating concrete to a hopper from which it was discharged
through movable metal chutes Sulpported by horsps, to
varying required points on the floor area of a building in
process of erection. This apparatus was described in The
Engineering News of July 30, 1903.
In 1906 a like apparatus was used in the construction of
a reinforced concrete building in Norfolk, Virginia. Concrete was. elevated in a tower to a hopper which was
capable of being elevated from story to story as the work
progressed. The chute attached to the mouth of the

CONCRETE APPLIANCES CO. v. GOMERY.
177

183

Opinion of the Court.

hopper by swivel was capable of lateral movement and
supported by block and tackle attached to the top of the
tower.
There is proof of the use at San Francisco harbor in
1906, in concrete construction, of substantially similar
apparatus placed on a scow. It involved the use of a
chute moved into different positions by a supporting
boom.
In June, 1907, a similar apparatus was used in the
construction of a steel framed concrete building in St.
Louis, although sketches,- prepared at the time, called
for a swinging boom for the support of a conduit, the
boom was in practice dispensed with, as the steel skeleton
of the building afforded a means of supporting the conduit.
In the summer of 1908 an appliance of the same sort
was used in the construction of a concrete building at St.
Joseph, Mo., the hopper being capable of elevation within
the tower as required and the movable chute being supported by cables radiating from the top of the tower.
In 1906 the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. built at
Gary, Indiana, a concrete cofferdam using a mixer placed
on a car running on a trestle, with a wooden hopper beneath the mouth of the mixer and a movable steel chute
extending from the hopper into the cofferdam, the chute
being secured by ropes or wires extending to the bracing.
In 1907 in connection with this same construction the
apparatus was modified by the addition of a mast to
which was attached a swinging boom from which the
movable steel chute was .suspended. This was in successful operation several months and was constructed by a
man who had never seen concrete handled in this manner but who was familiar with grain elevator practice.
In July, 1908, five months prior to the filing of the
Callahan application, an apparatus comprising the elements enumerated in the claims in suit was used success-

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

fully in constructing a concrete building in St. Louis.
The hopper was vertically adjustable, but the boom was
.mounted at the top of the tower, so that there was no
necessity for change of its location vertically as the building progressed. The use of a swinging boom attached
to a building in process of erection or to a construction
tower, which boom was in practice raised from tinie to
time as convenience of operation required, was then a
well-known device.
In this state of the art, Callahan and several others, in
1906-1909, applied for patents on combinations for the
conveying of wet concrete through spouts or chutes;
their applications resulting in interferences.
Without more extensive examination of the record this
state of the proof leads us irresistibly to the conclusion
that the combination described in the Callahan application does not constitute an invention.
The observations of common experience in the mechanical arts would lead one to expect that once the
of using " wet " concrete in building operations
Ifeasibility
was established, the mechanical skill of those familiar
with engineering and building problems would seek to
make use of known methods and appliances for the convenient handling of this new building material.
To say nothing of the universally known methods and
appliances for raising and distributing water, there were
ready at hand widely used and generally understood appliances for the elevation and distribution of mobile substances, such as grain and coal, which involved, both in
principle and in practical detail, all the elements described in the Callahan claims. Failure to make use of
these obviously applicable methods and appliances in
combination, suitable to the particular work. in hand, in
dealing with a new plastic material capable of similar
treatment, would, we think, have evidenced a want of
ordinary mechanical skill and of familiarity with con-

CONCRETE APPLIANCES CO. v. GOMERY.
177

185

Opinion of the Court.

struction problems and methods. The adaptation independently made by engineers and builders of these
familiar appliances to the movement and distribution of
wet concrete in building operations and the independent
patent applications, within a comparatively short space of
time, for devices for that purpose are in themselves persuasive evidence that this use in combination of well
known mechanical elements was the product only of
ordinary mechanical or engineering skill and not of inventive genius. Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192.
It is but " the suggestion of' that common experience,
which arose spontaneously and by a necessity of human
reasoning, in the minds of those who had become acquainted with the circumstances with which they had to
deal." Hollister v. Benedict ManufacturingCo., 113 U. S.
59, 72. This progressive adaptation, much of which
preceded and some of which was co-temporaneous with
the Callahan adaptation, of well known devices to new
but similar uses "is but the display of the expected skill
of the calling, and involves only the exercise of the ordinary fhculties of reasoning upon the materials supplied
by a special knowledge, and the facility of manipulation
which results from its habitual and intelligent practice."
Hollister v. Benedict Manufacturing Co., supra, at page
73. No novel elements were used by Callahan in his device. We are unable to find that their use in combination in it was more than the application to them of mechanical skill in the course of a natural development and
expansion of the art. The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.

