UNITED STATES v. BOSTON INSURANCE CO. 197
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. BOSTON INSURANCE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 29.

Argued October 9, 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.

The Revenue Act ;f 1916, ยง 12, Par. "First," subdiv. (c), in defining.
deductions from gross income allowable in ascertaining the net
income of domestic corporations, included, in the case of insurance
companies, "the net addition, if any, required by law to reserve
funds." Held, that "reserve funds" does not embrace funds held
by a fire and marine insurance company, as required ,by the New
York Superintendent of Insurance, to cover accrued but unsettled
claims for losses. McCoach v. Insurance Co., 244 U. S. 585, followed; Maryland Casualty Co. V. United States, 251 U. S. 342,
explained and in part disapproved. P. 202.
58 Ct. Cls. 603, reversed.

APPEAL trom a judgment of the Court of Claims allowing recovery of an amount exacted of the Insurance Company as income taxes'.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Abram R. Serven, with whom Messrs. John G.
Carter and John W. Smith were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellee, a domestic corporation, carries on the business of issuing fire and marine insurance policies in Massachusetts, New York and elsewhere. It sued to -ccover
$8,755.92, exacted as income tax for 1916 (Act Sept. 8,
1916, 39 Stat. 756), and maintains that the addition made
during the year to its reserve funds," in the amount and
on account of its liabilities for unsettled loss claims," as

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

required by the Superintendent of Insurance for New
York, should have been deducted from gross income in
order to determine the net sum subject to taxation. The
amount of the deduction claimed was ascertained by subtracting $775,900.10, the reserve for loss claims on December 31, 1915, and required as condition precedent to doing
business within New York during the .following year,
from $1,336,578.53, the amount necessary therefor during
1917.
The Revenue Act of 1916 levied an annual tax upon
the net income received during the preceding year by
domestic insurance companies, and provided"SEc. 12. .(a) In the case of a corporation, jointstock company or association, or insurance company, organized in the United States, such net income shall be
ascertained by' deducting from the gross amount of its
income received within the year from all sources"First. All the ordinary and necessary expenses paid
within the year in the maintenance and operation of its
business and properties, including rentals or other payments required to be made as a condition to the continued
use or possession of property to which the corporation has
not taken or is not taking title, or in which it has no
equity.
"Second. All losses actually sustained 'and charged
off within the year and not compensated by insurance or
otherwise, including a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property arising out of its use
or employment in the business or trade; (a) in the case
of oil and gas wells a reasonable allowance for actual reduction in flow and production to be ascertained not. by
the flush flow, but by the settled production or regular
flow; (b) in the case of mines a reasonable allowance for
depletion thereof not to exceed the market value in the
mine of the product thereof which has been mined and
sold during the year for which the return and computa-

UNITED STATES v. BOSTON INSURANCE CO. 199
197

Opinion of the Court.

tion are made, such reasonable allowance to be made in
the case of both (a) and (b) under rules and regulations
to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury
. . * and (c) in the case of insurance companies, the
net addition, if any, required by law to be made within
the year to reserve funds and the sums other than
dividends paid within the year on policy and annuity
contracts."
During 1915, 1916 and 1917, as a condition precedent
to the right to do insurance business in the State, the New
York Superintendent of Insurance required the following
reserves"Stock, fire and marine insurance companies
"A. Loss reserve, including all unpaid losses and
estimated expense of investigations and adjustment
thereof, less admitted reinsurance.
"B. Reserve for unearned premiums as required by
statute and departmental regulations, i. e. (a) on fire insurance risks a sum equal to the actual unearned premium on the policies in force calculated on the gross sum
without any deduction except for admitted reinsurance,
and (b) on marine hull risks calculated in the same manner and on marine cargo risks 100 per cent. of the last
month's gross premium writings.
" C. Reserve for all other outstanding ]iabilities due or
accrued.
"Stock, casualty, surety and credit insurance companies
"A. Loss reserve, including all unpaid losses and
estimated expense of investigation and adjustment
thereof, whether on account of compensation and liability
insurance or otherwise, less admitted reinsurance, and
such dditional contingent reserves for losses as may be
required by the Superintendent of Insuiance.
"B. Uneianed premium or reinsurance reserve calculated as required by statute and all premiums paid in
advance at 100 per cent.

OCTOBER TERM, .1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

"C. Reserve for all other outstanding liabilities due
or accrued."
The Superintendent did not direct that funds to meet
liabilities should be kept separate and distinct from other
assets. They were specified by book entries as (1) reserves to meet liabilities for unearned premiums, (2)
unpaid loss claims and (3) all other outstanding liabilities,
due or accrued. He required all companies to keep on
hand sufficient assets to meet every liability.
The opinion of the Court of Claims, 58 Ct. Cls. 603,
states:
"The one question, and the only one properly raised,
is whether, within the meaning and intent of the Federal
revenue act, the net additions so made by the plaintiff
to its reserve funds in pursuance of the requirements of
the superintendent of insurance for New Yoik, to cover
accrued but unsettled loss claims, may be said to be
such a fund as comes within- the meaning of 'reserve
funds,' as those terms appear in the revenue act.
"The defendant does not dispute that the sum involved
was reserved, nor that it was required by the proper insurance authorities of New York to be reserved. Defendant's argument is predicated upon an assertion that Congress in exempting net additions to reserve funds, clearly
intended to exempt only such funds as are technically
known and universally understood in the insurance world
as reserve funds, and as thus understood the terms have
a well defined, limited, and certain status and meaning."
Follkwing Maryland Casualty Co. v. United States, 251
U. S. 342, 350, that court held the "loss claims item" was
a " net addition " required by law to be made to " reserve
funds" within the meaning of the Act of 1916 and gave,
judgment for the appellee.
We think McCoach v. Insurance Co. of North America,
244 U. S. 585, 589, is conclusive of the issue here presented; and appellee's claim must be denied. There a fire

UNITED STATES v. BOSTON INSURANCE CO. 201
197

Opinion of the Court.

and marine insurance company sought to recover the tax
assessed upon the addition during the year to " reserve
funds" held against accrued but unpaid losses. Through
Mr. Justice Pitney this court said:
The question is "whether, within the meaning of the
Act of Congress, 'reserve funds,' with annual or occasional additions, are 'required by law,' in Pennsylvania,
to be maintained by fire and marine insurance companies,
other than the 'unearned premium' or 'reinsurance reserve,' known to the general law of insurance.
"It appears that under this legislation, and under previous statutes in force since 1873, the insurance commissioner has required plaintiff and similar companies to
return each yeAr, as an item among their liabilities, the
net amount of unpaid losses and claims, whether actually
adjusted, in process of adjustment, or resisted. And,
although this practice has not been sanctioned by any
decision of the Supreme Court of the State, it is relied
upon as an administrative interpretation of the law.
"Conceding full effect to this, it still does not answer
the question whether the amounts required to be held
against unpaid losses, in the case of fire and marine insurance companies, are held as 'reserves,' within the
meaning of the Pennsylvania law or of the Act of Congress, however they may be designated upon the official
forms. As already appears, the Pennsylvania Act specifically requires debts and claims of all kinds to be
included in the statement of liabilities, and treats them
as something distinct from reserves. The object is to exercise abundant caution to maintain the companies in a
secure financial position.
"The Act of Congress, on the other hand, deals with
reserves not particularly in their bearing upon the solvency of the company, but as they aid in determining
what part of the gross income ought to be treated as net
income for purposes of taxation. There is a specific

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

provision for deducting 'all losses actually sustained
within the year and not compensated by insurance or
otherwise.' And this is a sufficient indication that losses
in immediate contemplation, but not as yet actually sustained, were not intended to be treated as part of the
reserve funds; that term rather having reference to the
funds ordinarily held as against the contingent liability
on outstanding policies.
"In our opinion the reserve against unpaid losses is not
'required by law,' in Pennsylvania, within the meaning
of the Act of Congress."
It follows from McCoach v. Insurance Co. that the
permitted deductions specified by ยง 12, Act 1916, do not
necessarily include anything which may be denominated
"reserve fund" by state statute or officer. We there
distinctly ruled that the "reserve fund" of the Federal
Act did not include something held by a fire and marine
insurance company to cover accrued but unsettled claims
for losses. We adhere to and reaffirm that doctrine. How
far it must be modified, if at all, in respect of insurance
companies which issue casualty, surety or liability policies
or similar obligations is not now before us.
Our opinion in Maryland Casualty Co. v. United States
contains the following passage [p. 348]: "Unearned premium reserve and special reserve for unpaid liability losses
are familiar types of insurance reserves, and the Government, in its amended returns, allowed these two items, but
rejected the third, 'Loss claims reserve.' The Court of
Claims, somewhat obscurely, held that the third item
should also be allowed. This 'Loss claims reserve' was
intended to provide for the liquidation of claims for unsettled losses (other than those provided for by the reserve for liability losses) which had accrued at the end of
the tax year for which the return was made and the reserve computed. The finding that the Insurance Department of Pennsylvania, pursuant to statute, has at all times

UNITED STATES v. B3OSTON INSURANCE CO. 203
197

Opinion of the Court.

since and including 1909 required claimant to keep on
hand," as a condition of doing business in that State,
'assets as reserves' sufficient to cover outstanding losses,'
justifies the deduction of this reserve as one required by
law-to be maintained, and the holding that it should have
been allowed for all of the years involved is approved."
Upon a re-examination of the record it becomes plain
that we misapprehended the opinion and ruling of the
lower court; also that the reason advanced, to support
our conclusion is insufficient. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue had refused to allow the deduction claimed
because of addition to the reserve for unpaid loss claims
(except liability claims--the net addition to which reserve
was allowed). The Court of Claims, in a perplexing
opinion, approved the Commissioner's action. The find-

ing that the Insurance Department of Pennsylvania, pursuant to statute, had at all times since and including 1909
required claimant to keep on hand, as a condition of doing
business in the State, "assets as reserves sufficient, to
cover outstanding losses," without more, was not sufficient
to justify the deduction of the reserve as one required by
law to be maintained, within the meaning of the Act of
Congress. This had been announced by McCoach v. Insurance Co.
The Maryland CasualtyCompany's Case involved many
items of complicated returns and reassessments. The record is confused, but the findings supply no adequate
ground for any holding contrary to the general doctrine
which we had theretofore approved. The principal business of the company was employers' liability, accident and
workmen's compensation insurance, and it may be that
considering certain state statutes, practice and general
understanding, the term "reserve fund" when used relative to the affairs of such a company should be given
broader significance than when it refers only to fire and
marine insurance. But if relied upon these things should
be shown.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

Appellee's claim is not well founded and the judgment
of the Court of Claims must be
Reversed.

EDWARDS, COLLECTOR, v. DOUGLAS

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 129.

Argued April 17. 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.

Section 31 (b), added by the Revenue Act of 1917 to the Revenue
Act of 1916, provides: "Any distribution made to the shareholders
...

of

a

corporation

...

ih the

year

nineteen

hundred

and seventeen, or subsequent tax years, shall be deemed to have
been made from the most recently accumulated undivided profits
or surplus, and shall constitute a part of the annual income of the
distributee for the year in which received, and shall be taxed to
the distributee at the rates prescribed by law for the years in
which such profits or surplus were accumulated by the corporation,

. . . but nothing herein shall be construed as taxing any

earnings or profits accrued prior to March first, nineteen hundred
and thirteen.

.

. ."

Construing this, Held:

1. Where the net profits of a corporation, during the fiscal year in
which dividends are paid, are sufficient to cover such dividends, the
term "most recently accumulated undivided profits" applies to
such current earnings, and the dividends must be deemed to have
made from them and are subject to the income tax rates of that
year, although, when the distribution was made, there were other
funds, adequate to meet it, carried in the surplus account of the
corporation, as made up to the end of the preceding fiscal year.
Pp. 207, 215, 217.
2. The term "surplus " as employed in corporate finance and accounting, designates an account on the books, representing the net
assets of the corporation in excess of all liabilities, including its
capital stock. P. 214.
3. As used in ยง 31 (b) supra, "surplus" means that part of the
surplus which was derived from profits, which, at the close of earlier
annual accounting periods, were carried into the surplus account as
undistributed profits. Id.

