OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

110

Opinion of the Court.

269 U. 0.

below either to the order restricting the scope of the
evidence or to findings of fact made.
Affirmed.
BURK-WAGGONER OIL ASSOCIATION v.
HOPKINS, COLLECTOR.
"ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 67. Argued October 20, 21, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.
1. Unincorporated joint stock associations, like those described in
Hecht v. Malley, 265 U. S. 144, though partnerships under the state
law, are " corporations," within the definition of the Revenue Act of
1918, and are subject, like corporations, to the income and excess
profits taxes imposed by that Act. P. 112.
2. Congress has power to tax the income earned through and in the
name of such an association unaffected by the facts that, under
the state law, the association is not recognized as a legal entity,
can not hold title to property and its shareholders are liable for
its debts. P. 114.
296 Fed. 492, affirmed.

to a judgment of the District Court in an action
against an internal revenue collector to recover a tax,
paid under protest.
ERROR

Messrs. Harry C. Weeks and Arnold R. Baar, for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Burk-Waggoner Oil Association is an unincorporated joint stock association like those described in Hecht
v. Malley, 265 U. S. 144. It was organized in Texas and

BURK-WAGGONER ASSN. v. HOPKINS.
110

111

Opinion of the Court.

carried on its business there. Under the Revenue Act of
1918, Act of February 24, 1919, c.18, 40 Stat. 1057, it
was assessed as a corporation the sum of $561,279.20 for
income and excess profits taxes for the year 1919. It paid
the tax under protest in quarterly instalments, and after
appropriate proceedings brought this suit in the federal
district court for northern Texas against the Collector of
Internal Revenue to recover one of the instalments. The
Association asserted that it was a partnership; contended
that under the Act no partnership was taxable as such;
and claimed that if' the Act be construed as authorizing
the taxation of a partnership as a corporation, or the taxation of the group for the distributive share of the individual members, it violated the Federal Constitution.
The District Court entered judgment for the defendant,
296 Fed. 492. The case is here under § 238 of the Judicial
Code, on direct writ of error allowed and filed April 21,
1924. Compare Towne v. Eisner, 245 U. S. 418,425.
The Revenue Act of 1918, §§ 210, 211, 218a, 224,335(c),
provides in terms that individuals carrying on business in
partnership shall be liable for income tax only in their
individual capacity, and that the members of partnerships
are taxable upon their distributive shares of the partnership income, whether distributed or not. It subjects corporations to income and excess profits taxes different from
those imposed upon individuals. See §§ 210-213, and
§§ 230, 300. It provides in § 1: "That when used in
this Act. . The term 'corporation'
includes associations, joint-stock companies, and insurance companies." By the common law of Texas a partnership is
not an entity, Glasscock v. Price, 92 Tex. 271; McManus
v. Cash & Luckel, 101 Tex. 261; an association like
the plaintiff is a partnership; its shareholders are individually liable for its debts as megnbers of a partnership,
Thompson v. Schmitt, 115 Tex. -; Victor Refining Co.
v. City National Bank of Commerce, 115 Tex. -; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the association can not hold real property except through
a trustee, Edwards v. Old Settlers' Association (Tex.
Civ. App.), 166 S. W. 423, 426. A Texas statute
provides that such associations-may sue and be sued in
their own name. Act of April 18, 1907, c. 128, Vernon's
Sayles' Texas Civil Statutes, 1914, Title 102, c. 2, Arts.
6149-6154. Since the writ of error was allowed, this
Court has held in Hecht v. Malley that associations like
the plaintiff are, by virtue of § 1, subject to the special
excise tax imposed by the Revenue Law of 1918 on every
"domestic corporation."
The Burk-Waggoner Association contends that what is
called its property and income were in law the property
and income of its members; that ownership, receipt and
segregation are essential elements' of income which Congress cannot affect; that consequently income can be
taxed by Congress without apportionment only to the
owner thereof; that the income of an enterprise when considered in its relation to all others than the owners is not
income within the purview of the Sixteenth Amendment;
and that thus what is called the income of the Association
can be taxed only to the partners upon their undistributed
shares of the partnership profits; for otherwise such a
distribution would neither enrich, nor segregate anything
tO the separate use of, a partner. The Association further
contends that, while Congress may classify all recipients
of income upon any reasonable basis for the purpose of
imposing income taxes at different rates, or for other purposes connected with the levying and collection of such
taxes, it cannot tax the income of the Association; for
that would make out of a business group, whose property
under the law of the State is owned by the members individually, an entity capable of owning property and receiving income; that to attempt this would constitute not
classification but an unlawful invasion of the State's exclusive power to regulate the ownership of property with-

BURK-WAGGONER ASSN. v. HOPKINS.
110

113

Opinion of the Court.

in its borders; that, on the other hand, if the tax be considered as one imposed upon the members and collected
from the group, it would likewise be void, both because it
is a direct tax not imposed upon income and not apportioned among the States, and because it is so arbitrary and
variable in its rates and application as to conflict with the
due process clause. The Association contends finally that
there is a conflict between the specific provisions of the
Revenue Act of 1918 for the taxation of partnership income to the members only and the definition of the term
"corporation" in § 1; and that the grave constitutional
doubts which necessarily arise, if the Act be construed as
attempting to impose the corporation income tax upon
associations which by the laws of the State are partnerships, present a compelling"reason for construing the Act
as not subjecting the Association's income to the taxes imposed upon corporations. Compare United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407.
There is no room for applying the rule of construction
urged in aid of constitutionality. It is clear that Congress intended to subject such joint stock associations to
the income and excess profits taxes as well as to the capital
stock tax. The definition given to the term "corporation" in § 1 applies to the entire Act. The language of
the section presents no ambiguity. Nor is there any inconsistency between that section and §§ 218(a) and
335(c), which refer specifically to the taxation of partnerships. The term partnership as used in these sections
obviously refers only to ordinary partnerships. Unincorporated joint stock associations, although technically
partnerships under the law of many States, are not in
common parlance referred to as such. They have usually
a fixed capital stock divided into shares represented by
certificates transferrable only upon the books of the-company, manage their affairs by a board of directors and exec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

114

Syllabus.

269 U. S.

utive officers, and conduct their business in the general
form and mode of procedure of a corporation. Because of
this resemblance in form and effectiveness, these business
organizations are subjected by the Act to these taxes as
corporations.
The claim that the Act, if so construed, violates the
Constitution is also unsound. It is true that Congress
cannot make a thing income which is not so in fact. But
the thing to which the tax was here applied is confessedly
income earned in the name of the Association. It is true
that Congress cannot convert into a corporation an organization which by the law of its State is deemed to be a
partnership. But nothing in the Constitution precludes
Congress from taxing as a corporation an association
which, although unincorporated, transacts its business as
if it were incorporated. The power of Congress so to tax
associations is not affected by the fact that, under the
law*of a particular State, the association cannot hold title
to property, or that its shareholders are individually liable
for the association's debts, or that it is not recognized as a
legal entity. Neither the conception of unincorporated
associations prevailing under the local law, nor the relation
under that law of the association to its shareholders, nor
their relation to each other and to outsiders, is of legal
significance as bearing upon the power of Congress to
determine how and at what rate the income of the joint
enterprise shall be taxed.
Affirmed.

DAVIS, AGENT v. ALEXANDER ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 32.

Argued October 12, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. The Director General of Railroads was not suable generally as
operator of all railroads under federal control, but only with reference to the particular transportation system or carrier out of

