OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. DAUGHERTY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
EIGHTH

No. 303.

OF APPEALS FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued December 1, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. Semble that, in view of later decisions on cognate questions, the
constitutionality of the Anti-Narcotic Act, sustained by a divided
court in United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, is open to question. P. 362.
2. Assuming the validity of the Anti-Narcotic Act, which was not
questioned in this case, an indictment charging in three counts the
making of three completed, unauthorized sales of cocaine, to three
different named persons, on three different, specified days, alleges
three separate offenses. P. 363.
3. A sentence, under three counts of an indictment alleging three
separate offenses, which adjudged the defendant guilty of "the
crime aforesaid" and that he be confined in a penitentiary "for
the term of five years on each of said three counts " and until he
shall have been discharged by due course of law; "said term of
imprisonment to run consecutively and not concurrently "--is to
be construed as imposing total imprisonment of fifteen years, made
up of three five year terms, one under each count, to be served
consecutively in the same sequence as the counts appeared in the
indictment. P. 363.
4. Sentences in criminal cases should reveal with fair certainty the
intent of the court and exclude any serious misapprehensions by
those who must execute them. Id.
C. C. A. 2 Fed. (2d) 691, reversed; Dist. Ct. affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of

Appeals which affirmed but, by interpretation, reduced
the scope of a sentence imposed by the District Court
in a prosecution for violations of the Anti-Narcotic Act.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Anthony P. Nugent, for respondent.

UNITED STATES v. DAUGHERTY.
Opinion of the Court.

360

MR.

361

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
indictment of three counts charged respondent with
violating the Harrison Anti-Narcotic Act, c. 1, 38 Stat.
785, by making unauthorized sales of cocaine to three different persons on different days. Each count alleged a
completed sale to the'named individual on a specified day.
The judgment below followed a plea of guilty"It is by the court considered and adjudged that said
defendant is guilty of the crime aforesaid, and that as
punishment therefor said defendant be confined in the
United States 'Penitentiary situated at Leavenworth,
Kansas, for the term of five (5) years on each of said three
counts and until he shall have been discharged from said
Penitentiary by due course of law. Said term of imprisonment to run consecutively and not concurrently."
He took the cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit and there maintained" 1. That the' [trial] court erred in imposing a sentence
of fifteen years upon defendant, James Daugherty; that
the court exceeded its jurisdiction in imposing a sentence
of fifteen years, which is ten years above the maximum
penalty prescribed for a violation of the Harrison AntiNarcotic Act as amended by Revenue Act of 1918, 40
Stat. 1130.
"2. That each of the offenses charged, alleged and set
forth in the indictment constitute a single continuous act
inspired by the same intent, which is equally essential to
each of the offenses charged in the three counts of said
indictment, and the court erred and exceeded its jurisdiction in imposing a sentence of fifteen years upon defendant."
That court interpreted and affirmed the judgment.
It held that "the contention that each sale should be
taken as resulting from one and the same criminal intent
and therefore the three counts charge only one crime, is
An

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

not sound; because criminal intent is not an element of
the crime, and because each count charges a different sale
to a daerent person and on a different day, and if the
sales were made as charged they constituted three separate offenses."
It further concluded that the sentence was for five years
only and, in support of this view, said: "Where sentences are imposed on verdicts of guilty, or pleas of guilty,
on several counts or on several indictments consolidated
for trial, it is the rule that the sentences so imposed run
concurrently, in the absence of specific and definite provision therein that they be made to run consecutively by
specifying the order of sequence. If the order in which
the terms of imprisonment for the different offenses is
to be served, is not clearly designated, the terms are to
be served concurrently, and the defendant cannot be held
in further confinement under the sentence after the expiration of the longest term imposed. Cumulative sentences are permissible, and in some cases are appropriate,
but when imposed on different counts or indictments there
must be certainty in the order of sequence." Mr. Justice
Bradley's opi.-iion in United States v. Patterson,29 Fed.
775, was cited and relied upon.
The cause is here by certiorari, granted upon petition
of the United States, for whom counsel say: "The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals has resulted in an
unwarranted alteration and misapplication of the original
sentence imposed upon the defendant. The purpose of
this proceeding is to restore the original judgment and
sentence of the District Court, imposing three consecutive
terms of five years each."
The constitutionality of the Anti-Narcotic Act, touching which this Court so sharply divided in United States
v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, was not raised below and has
nt been again considered. The doctrine approved in
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251; Child Labor Tax

UNITED STATES v. DAUGHERTY.
360

363

Opinion of the Court.

and
Case, 259 U. S. 20; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, 67;
Linder v. United States, 26& U. S. 5, may necessitate a
review of that question if hereafter properly presented.
In denying the contention that the indictment charged
but a single crime the court below was clearly right.
Further discussion of that point would serve no good
purpose. But, we think, it erred in holding that the
sentence was for only five years.
Sentences in criminal cases should reveal with fair certainty the intent of the court and exclude any serious
misapprehensions by those who must execute them. The
elimination of every possible doubt cannot be demanded.
Tested by this standard the judgment here questioned
was sufficient to impose total imprisonment for fifteen
years made up of three five-year terms, one under the first
count, one under the second and one under the third, to
be served consecutively and to follow each other in the
same sequence as the counts appeared in the indictment.
This is the reasonable and natural implication from the
whole entry. The words, "said term of imprisonment to
run consecutively and not concurrently," are not consistent with a five-year sentence.
United States v. Patterson, supra, grew out of a sentence under pleas of guilty to three separate indictments.
A single judgment entry directed that the prisoner "be
confined at hard labor in the State's prison of the State
of New Jersey, for the term of five (5) years upon each
of the three indictments above named, said terms not to
run concurrently; and from and after the expiration of
said terms until the costs of this prosecution shall have
been paid." The question there was materially different
from the one here presented which concerns counts in one
indictment. We think the reasoning of that opinion is
not applicable to the present situation. Neely v. United
States, 2 Fed. (2d) 849, 852, 853, is more nearly in point.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

269 U. S.

This and similar unfortunate causes should admonish
the trial courts to require the use of meticulously precise
language in all judgment entries. Especial care is essential where sentences for crime are imposed.
We deem it proper to add that the sentence of fifteen
years imposed upon respondent seems extremely harsh.
Circumstances not disclosed by the record may justify it,
but only extraordinary ones could do so.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the one entered by the District Court is
affirmed. The cause will be remanded to the latter court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
O'HARA
CERTIORARI

ET AL.

TO

THE

v. LUCKENBACH STEAMSHIP
COMPANY.
UNITED

APPEALS FOR

No. 224.

STATES

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

Argued November 19, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. Under the requirement of the Seamen's Act of March 4, 1915, that
" the sailors shall, while at sea, be divided into at least two, and
the firemen, dllers and water tenders into at least three watches,
which shall be kept on duty successively for the performance of
ordinary work incident to the sailing and management of the
vessel," all the sailors must be divided into watches as nearly
equal to each other numerically as the whole number of sailors
will permit. P. 367.
2. The purpose of this provision, as shown by the Act and its history, is to promote safety at sea rather than to regulate the working conditions of the men. Id.
3. The phrase "divided into watches" is to be given the meaning
it had acquired in the language and usages of the nautical tradeconnoting a division of the crew as nearly equal as possible.
P. 370.
1 Fed. (2d) 923, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel for seamen's wages.

