OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Decree.

269 U. S.

eign, may lawfully be required to bear the expenses of
their medical treatment.
The judgment of the District Court isaffirmed, and that
of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Reversed.
OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
No. 13, Original.

Decree announced January 4, 1926.1

Decree (1) confirming report of commissioners showing that they
have run, located and marked portions of the interstate boundary
along the south bank of Red River, other than the Big Bend and
Fort Augur areas, from the 100th meridian of longitude to the
eastern limit of Lamar County, Texas; (2) establishing the same
as the true boundary between Texas and Oklahoma, at the places
designated in the report, subject to future change by erosion and
accretion; (3) directing that copies of decree, report and maps
be transmitted to the Chief Magistrates of the two States.

On consideration of the third report of the Commissioners, heretofore selected to run, locate and mark portions of the boundary between the States of Texas and
Oklahoma along the south bank of the Red River, showing that they have run, located and marked particular
portions of such boundary from the One Hundredth
meridian of longitude to the eastern limit of Lamar
County, Texas, other than the Big Bend and Fort Augur
areas covered by two reports heretofore presented and
confirmed, which said third report was presented and
filed herein November 16, 1925;
1(
And no objection or exception to such report being
presented, although the time therefor has expired;
It is now adjudged, ordered and decreed that the said
report be in all respects confirmed.
It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that the
boundary line delineated and set forth in the report and
1 For another order of this date, respecting the expenses and compensation of the commissioners, see post, p. 539.

UNITED STATES v. ROBBINS.
314

Statement of the Case.

on the maps accompanying the same and referred to
therein be established and declared to be the true boundary between the States of Texas and Oklahoma along the
Red River at the several places designated in such report,
subject, however, to such changes as may hereafter be
wrought by the natural and gradual processes knowi as
erosion and accretion as specified in the second, third and
fourth paragraphs of the decree rendered herein March
12, 1923, 261 U. S. 340.
It is further ordered that the clerk of this Court do
transmit to the Chief Magistrates of the States of Texas
and Oklahoma copies of this decree, duly authenticated
under the seal of this Court together with copies of the
said report and of the maps accompanying the same.

UNITED STATES v. ROBBINS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHER T7 DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 493.

Argued December 7, 8, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A judgment of the District Court in an action against the United
States under the Tucker Act, Jud. Code, ยง 24, Par. 20, was reviewable directly by this Court. P. 326.
2. The whole income from community property in California was
returnable by and taxable to the husband, under the Revenue Act
of Feb. 24, 1919. Id.
So held in view of the power of the husband over community property, its liability for his debts, etc., under the law of that State,
without deciding whether the wife's interest is "a mere expectancy,"
or something more.

5 Fed. (2d) 690, reversed,

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court in favor of
the executors of Robbins, in an action against the United
States to recover money paid by the decedent as income
tax.

