OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

40

269 U. S.

Syllabus.

It is argued that the preliminary injunction vas void
for want of the notice required by Equity Rule 73 and
the Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, ยง 17; 38 Stat. 730,
737. The statute provides that if it is made to appear
that the nlisance exists, a temporary injunction shall
issue forthwith. ยง 22. In view of the drastic policy of
the Amendment and the statute, we see no reason why
the words should not be taken literally, to mean what
they say. McFarland v. United States, 295 Fed. 648.
But if notice were required the injunction could not be
disregarded as void. Howat v. Kansas, supra.
We think the case too clear for extended discuission, but
it seemed worth while to say what we have said in explanation of our judgment, although we did not think it
necessary to hear the other side.
Judgment affirmed.

AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY v.
DANIEL.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

GEORGIA.

No. 53.

Argued October 16, 1925.-Decided October 26, 1925.

1. Where the tariff schedules of an express company governing interstate shipments offer a lower rate for goods below a specified value
and a higher rate for goods more valuable, a stipulation in an
express receipt fixing the lower value in consideration of the lower
rate binds the shipper, although both his agent and the carrier's,
in making the shipment, were unaware of the fact that the value
was higher, and the latter knew the former to be thus ignorant.
P. 41.
2. The sender is bound to know the relation established by the
carrier's schedules between values and rates, and in an action to
recover the value of the goods, it is error to exclude the schedules
from evidence. P. 42.
157 Ga. 731, reversed.

AMERICAN RY. EXPRESS CO. v. DANIEL
40 '

41

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Georgia affirming a recovery of damages for goods not delivered, in an action against an express company.
Mr. Blair Foster, with whom Messrs. H. S. Marx,
Robert C. Alston and A. M. Hartung were on the brief,
for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit against the petitioning Express Company
for the value of a parcel that was received by the Company for carriage but was not delivered. The Company
admitted liability for fifty dollars but alleged that it
could not be held for more, because the receipt that it
gave fixed that sum as the value of the goods and a higher
value would have required the payment of a higher rate.
Under the ruling of the Court a verdict was found against
the petitioner for a hundred dollars, interest and costs,
subject to questions of law reserved, and judgment on the
verdict was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
without opinion, by an evenly divided Court.
The goods were delivered by an agent and, after conversation between him and the agent of the Express Company, the latter put fifty dollars into the receipt as the
value, neither party having any. clear knowledge, and
the receipt later was handed to and bound the sender of
the goods. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 232
U. S. 508, 514. The rate for carriage of property valued
at more than fifty dollars was higher than that charged.
The schedules filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission were offered, to show the rates, but were excluded,
and the judgment was affirmed seemingly on the ground
that the sending agent was not shown to have known that
a lower valuation secured a lower rate, and that the car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

rier knew that the agent was ignorant of the true value
of the goods. No argument is made for the respondent
and it is plain that the judgment cannot be sustained.
The carrier's knowledge of the agent's ignorance of the
value was immaterial. It acted in good faith. The carrier's schedules should have been admitted and bound
both parties. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227
U. S. 639, 652, 653. Southern Express Co. v. Byers, 240
U. S. 612, 614. American Railway Express Co. v. Lindenburg, 260 U. S. 584. The sender is bound to know the
relation established by them between values and rates.
Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S. 357, 360. Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Esteve Brothers & Co., 256 U. S. 566.
Judgment,reversed.
BUCKEYE COAL & RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. HOCKING VALLEY RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 51.

Argued October 15, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. Where a decree of the District Court, dissolving a combination
violative of the Anti-Trust Act, retains jurisdiction for the purpose
of making such l'urther orders as may be necessary to execute the

'_decree, a subsequent order finally approving a specific sale of
property for that purpose exhausts the reserved jurisdiction in so
far as that sale is concerned, and cannot be altered by that court
upon the same facts and upon the application of private interests,
after expiration of the term at which such order was made. P. 47.
2. An order approving a sale of the stock of a coal company under
a contract between the purchaser and a railroad company owning
the stock, necessarily approved also a stipulation in the contract
saving from impairment an existing pledge of the coal company's
lands under the railroad's mortgage and an obligation of the coal

