OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

114

Syllabus.

269 U. S.

utive officers, and conduct their business in the general
form and mode of procedure of a corporation. Because of
this resemblance in form and effectiveness, these business
organizations are subjected by the Act to these taxes as
corporations.
The claim that the Act, if so construed, violates the
Constitution is also unsound. It is true that Congress
cannot make a thing income which is not so in fact. But
the thing to which the tax was here applied is confessedly
income earned in the name of the Association. It is true
that Congress cannot convert into a corporation an organization which by the law of its State is deemed to be a
partnership. But nothing in the Constitution precludes
Congress from taxing as a corporation an association
which, although unincorporated, transacts its business as
if it were incorporated. The power of Congress so to tax
associations is not affected by the fact that, under the
law*of a particular State, the association cannot hold title
to property, or that its shareholders are individually liable
for the association's debts, or that it is not recognized as a
legal entity. Neither the conception of unincorporated
associations prevailing under the local law, nor the relation
under that law of the association to its shareholders, nor
their relation to each other and to outsiders, is of legal
significance as bearing upon the power of Congress to
determine how and at what rate the income of the joint
enterprise shall be taxed.
Affirmed.

DAVIS, AGENT v. ALEXANDER ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 32.

Argued October 12, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. The Director General of Railroads was not suable generally as
operator of all railroads under federal control, but only with reference to the particular transportation system or carrier out of

DAVIS v. ALEXANDER.
114

Opinion of the Court.

whose operations the liability in question arose. Davis v. Donovan,
265 U. S. 257. P. 116.
2.. Where one railroad company actually controlled another and
operated both as a single system, and the Director General, after
taking them over, pursued the same practice, damages to freight
shipped over the system during federal control and occurring on
the subsidiary line, are recoverable in an action against the Federal
Agent when sued and served as in charge of the dominant carrier.
P. 117.
93 Okla. 159, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma, which affirmed a recovery of damages for
negligent injury to live stock, in an action against the
Agent appointed under § 206a of the Transportation Act,
1920.
Mr. William F. Collins, with whom Messrs. C. 0. Blake
and W. R. Bleakmore were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Fred E. Suits, with whom Mr. C. E. Hall was on
the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Cattle shipped during federal control over the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific System from stations in New
Mexico through Texas to Oklahoma City were negligently
injured in transit. To recover the damages suffered this
suit was brought in a state court of Oklahoma against
James C. Davis, as Agent designated by the President,
pursuant to § 206a of Transportation Act, 1920, February
28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461. The injury was inflicted
partly in New Mexico, partly in Texas, and partly in
Oklahoma. The main controversy was whether plaintiffs
could recover for the injury suffered in Texas. The jury
returned a verdict for the entire damages. Judgment
entered thereon was affirmed by the highest court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

State. 93 Okla. 159. A petition for a writ of certiorari
was granted under § 237 of the Judicial Code as amended.
265 U. S. 577.
The lines of the Rock Island in Texas werr, owned by a
subsidiary-the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway
Company, a Texas corporation. The petition described
Davis as Agent, United States Railroad Administration,
in charge of Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad
and Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railroad. In the trial
court it was assumed that effective service of the summons
pursuant to § 206b was made only upon Davis as Agent
in charge of the Pacific. There, the shippers sought to
recover against him as such on the ground that the transportation service undertaken was for the system; that,
under federal control as before, the Pacific was the dominant carrier and operated, either alone oqr jointlywith the
Gulf, the whole system, including the Gulf lines; and that
recovery for all damages suffered could, therefore, be had
against Davis as Agent in charge of the Pacific. The
defendant insisted that the Director General had operated
the Pacific and the Gulf, not as parts of a single system,
but as individual and distinct entities. The shippers introduced substantial evidence in support of their allegations. The case was submitted to the jury under instructions which made it clear that the verdict must be limited
to the damage suffered on lines owned by the Pacific, unless the jury should find that the Gulf lines were being
operated with the other Rock Island lines as parts of a
single system.
To these instructions exceptions were duly taken, but
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma deemed it unnecessary to
pass upon their correctness. It affirmed the judgment
on the ground that the Director General operated all the
railroads of which the President took control as a single
national system, not as separate companies or systems;
that the Director General was liable in damages for

DAVIS v. ALEXANDER.
114

Opinion of the Court.

negligent operation regardless of the relation of the different lines to one another; and that under section 206b
service of process on the service agent for any railroad
gave jurisdiction over the Agent of the President in respect
to all railroads under federal control in the operation of
which the damages complained of resulted. Its opinion
was delivered November 6, 1923. Later, this Court held
in Davis v. Donovan, 265 U. S. 257, that under § 10 of
the Federal Control Act and General Order 50-A the Director General was not suable generally as the operator of
all the railroads, but only with reference to the particular
transportation system or carrier out of whose operations
the liability in question arose. The rule declared in the
Donovan case has been applied in suits brought under
Transportation Act, 1920, against the Agent of the President on causes of action arising during federal control.
Manbar Coal Co. v. Davis, 297 Fed. 24. The Supreme
Court of Oklahoma reached the same conclusion in Davis,
FederalAgent v. Benson, 105 Okla. 41, overruling its decision in the case at bar.
While the ground on which the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma rested its decision was thus unsound, the judgment of affirmance was right. Where one railroad company actually controls another and operates both as a
single system, the dominant company will be liable for
injuries due to the negligence of the subsidiary company.
Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Dupont, 128 Fed. 840; Lehigh
Valley R. Co. v. Delachesa, 145 Fed. 617; Wichita Falls
& Northwestern Rft Co. v. Puckett, 53 Okla. 463. There
was no error in the instructions excepted to.
Affirmed.

