190

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S,

that on December 12, 1922, in the matter of a claim of
one Badgley, in this same proceeding for the liquidation
of the Casualty Company of America, the Court of Appeals (234 N. Y. 503) entertained an appeal from the
Appellate Division of the first judicial department, which
had reversed an order of the special term allowing the
claim of the appellant therein and dismissed the claim.
This was not by permission of the Appellate Division and
must therefore have been found by the Court of Appeals
to be within the 4th paragraph of § 588, an order upon a
decision of the Appellate Division "finally determining
an action or special proceeding." This clearly shows that
in the view of the Court of Appeals of New York ifA the
order of disallowance in this case involved a federal constitutional question as it did on this record, it was directly,
appealable to that court from the Appellate Division
under the first paragraph of § 588.. The claimant has
failed to make proper application to the state court of
final resort and for that reason the writ must be dismissed.
Motion granted.
CENTRAL UNION TELEPHONE CO. v. CITY OF
EDWARDSVILLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 37.

Argued October 13, 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.

1. A system of state appellate practice (as in Illinois) which allows
,review of constitutional questions, with any others involved in
the case, by direct appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
but provides that if the appeal be taken to an intermediate court,
empowered to review non-constitutional questions, the constitutional questions shall be waived, is reasonable and valid as appliei
to a suitor who lost his opportunity to have his claim under the
Federal Constitution reviewed, in the state court or here, by
appealing to the intermediate court. P. 194.
2. An Illinois statute providing that "cases . . . in which the
validity of a statute or construction of the Constitution is in-

CENTRAL UNION CO. v. EDWARDSVILLE.
190

191

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

volved" shall be taken directly to the Supreme Court of the
State, was construed by that court as including eases involving
the federal as well as those involving the state constitution, with
the result that a party asserting a federal right was adjudged
by that court to have waived it by appealing in the first instance
to the intermediate appellate court. Held that a writ of error
from this court to the state Supreme Court must be dismissed,
since the constructi6n, even though not anticipated by any
earlier decision, was not an unfair or unreasonable one amounting in its application to an obstrution of the federal right,, and
therefore this court was bound by it. P. 195.
Writ of error to review 309 Ill. 482, dismissed.

ERROR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, affirming a judgment of the Illinois Appellate
Court, which sustained a recovery by the City in an
action against the Telephone Company to collect taxes
levied on its poles in the city streets. See also 302 Ill. 362;
227 Ill. App. 424.
Mr. William Dean Bangs, with whom Mr. James
Dwight Dickerson was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
This Court is not bound by the determination of a
state court that a federal constitutional question has
been waived. Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22; American Ry: Express v. Levee, 263 U. S. 19; Prudential Ins.
Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530; Union Pacific Ry. v, Public
Service Commission, 248 U. S. 67; Truax v. Corrigan,
257 U. S. 312, 324; Davis v. O'Hara, 266 U. S. 314;
Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389.
Where there is a plain assertion of a federal constitutional right in a lower court, local rules as to how far
it will be reviewed on appeal do not prevail. Love v.
Griffith, 266 U. S. 32; Davis v. Wechsler, supra; Ward
v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22. The jurisdiction of this
Court is determined by § 237 Judicial Code as amended.
Harrisonv. St. L. & S. F. R. R., 232 U. S. 318, 328. The
federal constitutional right was "drawn -in ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

tion " within the meaning of this section. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S.
79; Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U. S. 385. An ordinance is a
"statute" within the meaning of this section.
Waiver hnplies intentional relinquishment of a right.
Perrin v. Parker, 126 Ill. 201; Star Brewery Co. v.
Primas, 163 Ill. 652. The constaht assertion of the
federal right can not have the effect of a waiver. Atlantic Coast Line v. Burnette, 239 U. S. 199; Davis v.
Wechsler, supra.
Messrs. Mark Lester Geers, George Allen Lytle and
John Frederick Eeck were on the brief, for defendant in
errr.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The City of Edwardsville, in July 1882, by ordinance
granted to the Central Union Telephone Company a
right in its streets to erect and maintain the necessary
poles and wires for the operation of a telephone system.
The Central Telephone Company transferred its rights
to the Central Union Telephone Company. Later the
city council adopted a resolution requesting the Central
Union Telephone .Company to furnish to the city, free
of charge, one telephone and such additional telephones
as the city council might call for at a reduction of 25
per cent. from the regular rates, and the right to attach,
without charge, fire and police alarm wires to the top
cross-arm of each pole. The company filed its acceptance of this resolution as provided in the resolution.
It maintains 1000 poles in the City of Edwardsville. The
city in 1914 passed an brdinance which in effect imposes
a tax of 50 cents a pole upon every person, firm or
corporation owning, controlling or occupying any such
poles in the streets of Edwardsville. The city brought

CENTRAL UNION CO. v. EDWARDSVILLE.
190

193

Opinion of the Court.

suit for the amount due under the tax law at 50 cents
a pole. A jury was waived, and after a hearing the
court entered judgment for $3,000 against the company.
The Circuit Court held that neither the ordinance by
which the Central Telephone Company was permitted to
occupy the streets, nor the subsequent resolution accepted by the Central Union Telephone Company, constituted a contract, and that the tax law was not therefore a violation of the Constitution of the United States
in impairing a contract, or in depriving the company of
property without due process of law. Upon this record
an appeal was taken to the Appellate Court of the State
for the Fourth Circuit. That court transferred the case
to the Supreme Court of Illinois, on the ground that the
Appellate Court had no jurisdiction of it. City of Edwardsville v. Central Union Telephone Co., 302 Ill. 362.
The Supreme Court held that as the appeal had been
taken to the Appellate Court and errors assigned which
that court had jurisdiction to hear, the case was improperly transferred to the Supreme Court, and remanded it
to the Appellate Court, which gave judgment affirming
the Circuit Court. The plaintiff then obtained a certiorari from the Supreme Court to review the decision of
the Appellate Court, and in that hearing the Supreme
Court declined to hear the constitutional questions on the
ground that they had been waived by the failure to carry
the case from the Circuit Court directly to the Supreme
Court to review those questions.
Paragraph 89, § 88, 3d Starr & Curtiss, Annotated Illinois Statutes, p. 3114, reads as follows:
"Par. 89. Appeal from trial court to appellate courtFrom trial court to supreme court. § 88. Appeals from
and writs of error to circuit courts, the superior court, of
Cook county, the criminal court of Cook county, county
courts and city courts in all criminal cases, below the
grade of felony, shall be taken directly to the appellate

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

court, and in all criminal cases above the grade of misdemeanors, and cases in which a franchise or freehold or
the validity of a statute or construction of the Constitution is involved; and in all cases relating to revenue, or in
which the State is interested as a party or otherwise, shall
be taken directly to the supreme court."
The construction of this statute has been uniformly
held to be, that where a question involves the Constitution, it must be taken on error or appeal to the Supreme
Court, and that if it be taken to the Appellate Court on
other grounds, the party taking the appeal or suing out
the writ of error shall be held to have-waived the constitutional questions. Indiana Millers Ins. Co. v. People,
170 Ill. 474; Robson v. Doyle, 191 Ill. 566; Case v. Sullivan, 222 Ill. 56; Poe v. Ulrey, 233 Ill. 56; Haas Co. v.
Amusement Co., 236 Ill. 452; Scott v. Artman, 237 Ill.
394; Comm'rs v. Shockey, 238 Ill. 237. The city, therefore, moves to dismiss the writ of error.
It is objected on behalf of the plaintiff in error that the
words "validity of a statute or construction of the Constitution" refer to the constitution of Illinois and not to
the Federal Constitution. The Supreme Court of Illinois
has held otherwise in this case. 309 Ill. 482, 483, 484.
But counsel for plaintiff in error insist that it is for
this Court to determine finally whether a litigant in a
state court has waived his federal right, citing Davis v.
O'Hara, 266 U. S. 314; Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S.22;
American Railway Co. v. Levee, 263 U. S. 19; Truax v.
Corrigan,257 U. S. 312; 324; Union Pacific Railway Company v. Public Service Commission, 248 U. S. 67. But
there is nothing in these cases which justifies this Court
in ignoring or setting aside a required form of practice
under the appellate statutes of the Stafe by which federal
constitutional rights, as well as state constitutional rights,
may be asserted in the Supreme Court of the State or be
,held to be waived, if the practice gives to the litigant a

CENTRAL UNION CO. v. EDWARDSVILLE.
190

195

Opinion of the Court.

reasonable opportunity to have the issue as to the claimed
right heard and determined by that court. We sfaid in
John v. Paullin,231 U. S. 583, 585: "Without any doubt
it rests with each State to prescribe the jurisdiction of its
appellate courts, the mode and time of invoking that
jurisdiction, and the rules of practice to be applied in its
exercise; and the state law and practice in this regard are
no less applicable when Federal rights are in controversy
than when the case turns entirely upon questions of local
or general law,"-an4 many cases are there cited.
It seems to us that the practice under the statute of
Illinois above quoted is entirely fair. If the litigant has a
constitutional question, federal or state, he may take the
case directly to the Supreme Court and have that question
decided, together with all the other questions in the case,
and then, if the federal constitutional question is decided
against him, he may bring it here by writ of error or application for certiorari. If he elects to take his case to
the Appellate Court, he may have the non-constitutional
questions considered and decided, but he gives up the
right to raise constitutional objections in any court.
There is some complaint that counsel could not infer that
the constitutional questions referred to in the statute were
federal questions, because the Supreme Court of Illinois
had not so decided before this case. We have not been
able to determine from the Illinois decisions cited above
whether any of the constitutional questi6ns held to be
waived therein were federal until the present case. It is
not, however, a forced or strained interpretation to hold
that "cases . . . in which the validity of a statute
or construction of the Constitution is involved" include
validity under, or construction of, both constitutions.
When so declared by the state court it should bind us
unless so unfair or unreasonable in its application to those
asserting a federal right as to obstruct it. This is no such
case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

The case of PrudentialInsurance Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S.
530, is relied upon to sustain the writ in this case. In
that case there was a trial by jury, resulting in a verdict
in favor of the plaintiff. The defendant reserved its constitutional points and appealed from the resulting judgment to the state Supreme Court, which refused to take
jurisdiction, on the ground that all constitutional questions had been decided by it on a former appeal, and because the verdict, being only for $1,500, was less than the
jurisdictional amount required by the statute, transferred
the cause to the St. Louis Court of Appeals for final disposition. The St. Louis Court of Appeals, in confornrity
to the former opinion of the Supreme Court on the constitutional questions, affirmed the judgment, and refused
the application for certification of the case to the Sifpreme
Court. A writ of error from this Court to the St. Louis
Court of Appeals followed, and a motion to dismiss the
writ was made on the ground that the judgment of the
Court of Appeals was not that of the highest court of the
State in which a decision in the suit could be had. The
motion was denied and the case considered on its merits.
There is nothing in that case which conflicts with granting the motion to dismiss in this. The plaintiff in error
had exhausted every means to test the question in the
Supreme Court of Missouri, and had lost; and on the
second hearing a writ of error properly.lay to the highest
court to which the case could be taken, which was the
intermediate court. Here, the law of the State under the
statute, as many times construed, required the appeal
on constitutional grounds to be taken directly from the
Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of Illinois. It elected,
instead, to go to the Appellate Court, with the consequences well understood, and thereby it waived the question which it now wishes to present here.
The motion to dismiss the writ of
error is granted.

