FRESHMAN v. ATKINS.
118

Counsel for Parties.

insurer. The liability of a re-insurer is not affected by
the insolvency of the re-insured company or the inability
of the latter to fulfill its own contracts with the original
insured. Allemania Fire Insurance Co. v. Firemen's Insurance Co., 209 U. S. 326. The participation contract
differs from customary re-insurance in this: The Munich
instead of receiving premiums and paying its share of
losses was to participate in profits and losses. The difference is not one which affected the scope or character of
the Munich's obligation.
Affirmed.
FRESHMAN v. ATKINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued October 14, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. The pendency of a voluntary petition in bankruptcy precludes consideration of a second voluntary petition in respect of the same
debts. P. 122.
2. 'The District Court, on application for discharge in a voluntary
proceeding in bankruptcy, may take judicial notice of the pendeficy,
in its own records, of an earlier like application; and of its own
motion, because of such pendency, may refuse the later application,
in so far as the same debts are concerned. P. 123.
294 Fed. 867, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a jVdgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming an order of the District Court, which
denied in part an application for a discharge in bankruptcy. 290 Fed. 609.
Mr. Paul Carrington,with whom Messrs. Joseph Manson McCormick and Francis Marion Etheridge were on
the briefs, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Cdurt.

269 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On November 1, 1915, the petitioner filed in the federal
district court for the northern district of Texas a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy. Within the-statutory time he applied for his discharge, which was contested. The referee,
to whom it had been referred as special master, having
died after a hearing, his successor as referee reviewed the
record and recommended that the discharge be denied.
The referee's report was filed with the clerk, but not acted
upon by the court, nor was the matter ever brought to the
court's attention by the petitioner or any other interested
party. On November 11, 1922, a second voluntary peti.tion was filed by the bankrupt. The creditors listed in
the first petition were, together with others, included in
the second. In February, 1923, the petitioner filed an application for a discharge under the second 'proceeding.
The referee recommended that the discharge be granted.
The court, upon its own initiative, took judicial notice of
the pendency of the former application and denied the
second, in respect of the creditors included in the first
petition; granted it as to the additional creditors; and,
upon an inspection of the record, denied, by a separate
order, the discharge sought under the original proceeding.
290 Fed. 609. The order denying in part the second application was affirmed on appeal by the circuit court of
appeals. 294 Fed. 867. A motion was made in the district
court for a rehearing of the question of discharge under
the original proceeding, but what, if any, action has been
taken respecting it, does not appear.
The opinions of the two courts do not proceed upon
precisely similar grounds, but they reach the same conclusion, which is, in effect, that the pendency of the first
application precluded a consideration of the second in respect of the same debts. In'this conclusion we concur.
A proceeding in bankruptcy has for one of its objects the

FRESHMAN v. ATKINS.
121

Opinion of the Court.

discharge of the bankrupt from his debts. In voluntary
proceedings, as both of these were, that is the primary object. Denial of a discharge from the debts provable, or
failure to apply for it -within the statutory time, bars an
application under a second proceeding for discharge from
the same debts. Kuntz v. Young, 131 Fed. 719; In re
Bacon, 193 Fed. 34; In re Fiegenbaum, 121 Fed. 69; In re
Springer, 199 Fed. 294; In re Loughran, 218 Fed. 619; In
re Cooper, 236 Fed. 298; In re Warnock, 239 Fed. 779;
Armstrong v. Norris, 247 Fed. 253; In re Schwartz, 248
Fed. 841; Hornerv. Hamner,249 Fed. 134; Monk v. Horn,
262 Fed. 121. A proceeding in bankruptcy has the characteristics of a suit, and since the denial of a discharge,
or failure to apply for it, in a former proceeding is available as a bar, by analogy the pendency of a prior application for discharge is available in abatement as in the
nature of a prior suit pending, in accordance with the general rule that the law will not tolerate two suits at the
same time for the same cause.
Here there was no plea or objection by any
interested
party, and it is argued that this is a necessary prerequisite
to a consideration of the matter-that the court may not
refuse a discharge ex mero motu. That such is the rule
where the action of the court is based upon one or more of
the acts of the bankrupt which operate to preclude a
discharge may be conceded. But the objection that the
issue is already pending, as that it has been adjudged, goes
to the right of the bankrupt to maintain the later application, not to the question of the evidence or grounds upon
which the relief may be granted if the application be
maintainable. The refusal to discharge was not on the
merits but upon the procedural ground that the natter
could not properly be considered or adjudged except upon
the prior application. This application had been reported
upon adversely by the referee, was still pending, and, in.
ordinary course, could have been considered and acted

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

upon by the court. To ignore it and make a second application, involving a new hearing, was an imposition
upon and an abuse of the process of the court, if not a
clear effort to circumvent the statute by enlarging the
statutory limitation of time within which an application
for a discharge must be made. In such a situation the
court may well act of its own motion to suppress an attempt to overreach the due and orderly administration of
justice. What is said in the Fiegenbaum Case, supra, p.
70, is appropriate here: "Not only should the court of
bankruptcy protect the creditors from an attempt to retry
an issue already tried and determined between the same
parties, but the court, for its own protection, should arrest,
in limine, so flagrant an attempt to circumvent its decrees." There is nothing in Bluthenthal v. Jones, 208
U. S. 64, to the contrary. There the previous denial of a
discharge had been in another court sitting in another
state. This court held that, while an adjudication in bankruptcy, refusing a discharge, came within the rule of res
judicata, the court in which the second proceeding was
brought was not bound to search the records of other
courts and give effect to their judgments. This is far from
saying that the court may not take judicial notice of, and
give effect to, its own records in another but interrelated
proceeding, as this was. See In re Loughran,supra,p. 621;
Bienville Water Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 217;
Dimmick v. Tompkins, 194 U. S. 540, 548; Louisville
Trust Co. v. Cincinnati,76 Fed. 296, 31S; In re Sussman,
190 Fed. 111, 112.
The order of the district court denying the first application is not before us for consideration. If erroneous, relief
may be afforded by proper and timely application to that
court or by an appellate. review of the order.
Judgment affirmed.

