OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

were that the Custodian determined after investigation
that five hundred and fifteen thousand five hundred and
seventy-five dollars were owing to the German Government, that he demanded and received them under the Act,
paid them to the Treasurer, and holds them in a special
trust; that he afterwards collected and paid over to the
Treasurer five million dollars in a special trust as from an
unknown enemy, but later determined that two million
two hundred thousand dollars of the latter sum were held
when he received them for the Imperial German Government, and directed the Treasurer to transfer that amount
to a special account to the credit of the Imperial German
Government, and that this was done. It was pressed at
great length that the Custodian had no authority to determine the fact, especially after the money had been
transferred to the Treasurer. But it is immaterial whether
he had that authority or not. He had authority to answer
in his own case, and the admission of the two defendants
under oath is evidence against them in other cases as it
would be conclusive against them in the one where it
was filed, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary.
Pope v. Allis, 115 U. S. 363. No evidence to the contrary
was given in any of the cases nor was any reason shown
to doubt the fact.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in this case.
EX PARTE GRUBER.
No.

-.

Original. Motion for leave to file petition for mandamus,
November 23, 1925.-Decided December. 14, 1925.

The provision of the Constitution granting this Court original jurisdiction "in all cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers
and Consuls" refers to diplomatic and consular representatives
accredited to the United States by foreign powers, and not to
those representing this country abroad.
Leave to file denied.

EX PARTE GRUBER.
302

Opinion of the Court.

APPLICATION for leave to file a petition and for a rule
directing the consul general of the United States at Montreal to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not
issue against him.

Mr. Marcus Gruber, pro se.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an application for leave to file a petition and for
a rule directing Albert Halstead, Consul General of the
United States at Montreal, Canada, to show cause why a
writ of mandamus should not issue commanding him to
visa the passport or the certificate of origin and identity
presented to him by one Rosa Porter, a citizen of Russia,
who recently arrived in Montreal from Russia and from
whom petitioner, a relative, desires a visit in the United
States of several months' duration. We do not review
the averments of the petition, since, other questions
aside, it is clear that this court is. without original jurisdiction.
Article III, ยง 2, cl. 2, of the Constitution provides that
this court shall have original jurisdiction "in all cases
affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls." Manifestly, this refers to diplomatic and consular
representatives accredited to the United States by foreign
powers, not to those representing this country abroad.
Milward v. McSaul, 17 Fed. Cas. 425, 426, No. 9624. The
provision, no doubt, was inserted in view of the important
and sometimes delicate nature of our relations and intercourse with. foreign governments. It is a privilege, not of
the official, but of the sovereign or government which he
represents, accorded from high considerations of public
policy, considerations which plainly do not apply to the
United States in its own territory. See generally Davis v.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

Packard,7 Pet. 276, 284; Marshallv. Critico, 9 East 447;
Valarino v. Thompson, 7 N. Y. 576, 578; The Federalist,
No. 80, Ford's Ed., pp. 531, 532-533, 537.
The applicationis denied for want
of original jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK & CUBA MAIL

STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 65.

Argued October 20, 1925.-Decided December 14, 1925.

1. The Act of December 26, 1920, providing, inter alia, that "alien
seamen" found on arrival in ports of the United States to be afflicted With any of the diseases mentioned in ยง 35 of the Immigration Act of 1917, sliall be placed in a hospital designated by an
immigration official, and treated, and that all expenses connected
therewith shall be borne b5y the owner or master of the vessel,
applies to seamen who are aliens in personal citizenshil3, without
regard to whether the nationality of the vessel be foreign or
domestic. P. 310.
2. As applied to American vessels this provision is not repugnant to
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, and is within
the power of Congress over the exclusion of aliens. P. 313.
297 Fed. 159, reversed; Dist. Ct. affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
recovered by the United States from the Steamship Company, representing the hospital expenses incurred in curing a diseased seaman.

Assistant Attorney, General Letts, with whom Solicitor
General Beck and Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States.

