THf SLER v. CROOKS.
459

475

Statement of the Case.

ments of the patent, without the right to make, use and
vend the patented article, was an assignment of the patent
under § 4898 R. S. We declined so to hold. There was no
offer to make the owner of the patent a party, nor were
there any facts showing that the owner would not join as
co-plaintiff or was not in the jurisdiction. The appellant
stood solely upon his right to sue as an assignee of the
patent and was defeated.
We hold that the De Forest Company was properly
joined as a co-plaintiff by the Radio Corporation upon
the 25th averment of the bill. This makes it unnecessary
for us to consider the argument on behalf of the appellee
that the American Telephone and Telegraph Company
was the owner of the patent instead of the De Forest
Company.
Decree affirmed.

TRUSLER v. CROOKS, AS COLLECTOR AND INDIVIDUALLY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 188. Argued November 17, 1925.-Decided January 11, 1926.
Section 3 of the "Future Trading Act," purporting to impose a tax
of 20 cents per bushel upon all privileges or options for contracts
of purchase or sale of grain, known to the trade as 'privileges,'

'bids,' 'offers,' ' puts and calls,' ' indemnities,' or 'ups and downs,'
is unconstitutional. Its purpose is not to raise revenue but to
inhibit, by a penalty, the transactions referred to, as part of the
plan set up by the Act for regulating grain exchanges under guise
of the federal taxing power, which was adjudged unconstitutional
in Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44. P. 479.
300 Fed. 996, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of 'the District Court for the
defendant in an action brought to recover money paid
under protest as a stamp tax.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

269 U. S.

Mr. E. R. Morrison for plaintiff in error.
The contracts referred to in § 3 do not constitute interstate commerce, and this is shown both from the agreed
statement of facts and from the previous decisions of
this Court dealing with subjects related to future trading
in grain and cotton.
This section is not a taxing act, but is a regulation of
intrastate commerce.
(A) This is shown from the title of the act as a whole,
which recites that it is for the regulation of boards of
trade.
(B) The report of the Committee on Agriculture in
submitting this bill to the House, states that it will absolutely wipe out of existence these contracts, and this Court
can resort to these congressional records to determine the
purpose of this section.
(C) The exhorbitant character of the tax, considered
in connection with the other evidences of the purpose of
Congress, clearly shows the purpose was to destroy and
not to tax, and that the section imposes nothing but a
penalty.
(D) Aside from all other questions in the case, the fact
alone that the purported tax amounts to 200 times the
value of the contract which is the subject of the tax, in
and of itself is sufficient to indicate that the purpose of
Congress in enacting this section was to destroy contracts
of this character, and to show that this section has no real
relation to the taxing power of the Federal Government.
(E) Section 11 of the act, which provides that any
provision shall be held valid, nothwithstanding any other
provisions are held invalid, cannot change or alter the
purpose of this section, inasmuch as the question to be
determined here is not whether the section should be considered as complete when standing alone, but whether it
was passed with the purpose of prohibiting the making of
these contracts.

TRUSLER v. CROOKS.
475

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Robert P. Reeuer,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the defendant in error.
While this Court has decided that § 4 and interwoven
regulations of the Future Trading Act are unconstitutional, it has expressly said that that decision does not
apply to the section involved in the present case. In Hill
v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, the Court was able to see on the
face of the act a purpose to enact by means of a tax law
detailed regulation of business activities which were not
within the control of Congress. Child Labor Tax Case,
259 U. S. 20. The act contains a saving clause which furnishes assurance that courts may properly sustain separate portions of the act even though other portions should
be shown to be invalid.
The tax imposed in § 3 was imposed absolutely upon
all transactions of a designated character. As the Court
said, it does not seem to be associated with the tax which
§ 4 imposed conditionally upon sales by those who were
neither owners of grain nor similarly situated. The condition was compliance with an elaborate system of regulations. It was the effort to enforce those regulations
through the alternative of a heavy tax which rendered the
tax unconstitutional. The tax imposed in § 3 is not tied
up with any collateral regulations whatever. The reasons
which led the Court to declare other portions of the act
unconstitutional do not apply to § 3.
There is nothing in the Future Trading Act which
shows that Congress enacted § 3 for any other purpose
than to raise revenue. But even if it were clearly established that Congress intended that the tax should be
destructive, that fact would not render the tax unconstitutional. It is clear that Congress did not enact § 3,
as it did § 4, as a step in the detailed regulation of
business activities which are not within the control of
Congress. So far as appears in the act the tax imposed

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

269 U. S.

in § 3 is just such a tax as this Court has sustained
repeatedly. It appears to be of the same nature as the
taxes on sales at exchanges or boards of trade which were
sustained in Nichol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, and in Thomas
v. United States, 192 U. S. 363, and on agreements to sell
shares of stock, otherwise known as "calls," which were
sustained in Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264. Where there
is a lawful power to impose a tax its imposition may not
be treated as without the power because of the destructive effect of the exertion of the authority. Austin v.
The Aldermen, 7 Wall. 694; McCray v. United States,
195 U. S. 56; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; License
Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule,
7 Wall. 433; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, & Wall. 533;
Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345; Treat v. White, 181
U. S. 264; Pattonv. Brady, 184 U. S. 608; United States
v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86; Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, 255
U. S. 44.
If Congress has power to regulate directly it has power
to regulate through the imposition of a tax, not merely
by a tax which regulates incidentally but by a tax which
is unquestionably imposed primarily for the purpose of
regulating. This case does not involve the question
whether a tax imposed with that end clearly in view may
be enforced in any other way than that which is usual in
the collection of taxes. Protective tariffs are, however,
enforced in precisely the same manner as a tariff for
revenue only would be made effective.
It seems appropriate for the law officers of the United
States, without regard to individual conviction, to submit
the case for the usual consideration by the Court, and,
since the arguments against the validity of the statute
are adequately presented by the plaintiff in error, to file
a brief in support of the statute. Our duty to sustain
and enforce the acts of Congress does not outweigh the
obligation to support and defend the Constitution, and

TRUSLER v. CROOKS.
475

Opinion of the Court.

we feel under no obligation to conceal our opinion that in
this case Congress under the guise of a revenue measure
which can not produce a dollar of revenue (except that
paid to make a test case) has attempted to completely
prohibit transactions which it has no power under the
Constitution to deal with.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff in error seeks to recover two hundred dollars
paid for internal revenue stamps which, after due protest,
he affixed to a written "privilege or option for a contract
for the sale of grain in the form commonly known as an
indemnity," as required by § 3, "The Future Trading
Act," approved August 24, 1921, c. 86, 42 Stat. 187. If,
as he insists, that section is beyond congressional power
and therefore invalid, he must prevail; otherwise the
judgment below must be affirmed.
That statute is entitled "An Act Taxing contracts for
the sale of grain for future delivery, and options for such
contracts, and providing for the regulation of boards of
trade, and'for other purposes."
Section 2 declares that the term "'contract of sale'
shall be held to include sales, agreements of sale, and
agreements to sell; " the word "'grain' shall . .
mean wheat, corn, oats, barley, rye, flax, and sorghum; "
the words "'board of trade' shall be held to include and
mean any exchange or association, whether incorporated
or unincorporated, of persons who shall be engaged in the
business of buying or selling grain or receiving the same
for sale on consignment."
Section 3. "That in addition to the taxes now imposed
by law there is hereby levied a tax amounting to 20 cents
per bushel on each bushel involved therein, whether the
actual commodity is intended to be delivered or only
nominally referred to, upon each and every- privilege or

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

option for a -contract either of purchase or sale of grain,
intending hereby to tax only the transactions known to
the trade as 'privileges,' 'bids,' 'offers,' 'puts and calls,'
'indemnities,' or 'ups and downs.'"
Sections 4 to 10 impose a charge of 20 cents per bushel
upon all grain involved in sale contracts for future delivery, with two exceptions. But, as declared by Hill v.
Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, 66, their real purpose was to regulate "the conduct of business of boards of trade through
supervision of the Secretary of Agriculture and the use of
an administrative tribunal consisting of that Secretary,
the Secretary of Commerce, and the Attorney General."
Section 11. "That if any provision of this Act or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is held
invalid, the validity of the remainder of the Act and of
the application of such provision to other persons and
circumstances shall not be affected thereby."
Sections 4 to 10 were challenged in Hill v. Wallace,
decided upon demurrer to the bill, and we held: "The act
is in essence and on its face a complete regulation of
boards of trade, with a penalty of 20 cents a bushel on
all 'futures' to coerce boards of trade and their members
into compliance. When this purpose is declared in the
title to the bill, and is so clear from the effect of the
provisions of the bill itself, it leaves no ground upon
which the provisions we have been considering can be
sustained as a valid exercise of the taxing power."
We there said: "There are sections of the act to which
under § 11 the reasons for our conclusion as to § 4 and
the interwoven regulations do not apply. . . . Section 3, too, would not seem to be affected by our conclusion. . . . This is the imposition of an excise tax
upon certain transactions of a unilateral character in grain
markets which approximate gambling or offer full opportunity for it and does not seem to be associated with § 4.
Such a tax without more would seem to be -within the

TRUSLER v. CROOKS.
475

Opinion of the Court.

congressional power. .
.
But these are questions
which are not before us and upon which we wish to
express no definite opinion." Of course, the quoted statement concerning § 3 was intended to preclude any possible inference that we had passed upon a matter not
directly in issue and to indicate that it remained open
for discussion.
The present cause was tried upon an agreed statement
of facts and it appearsThat at Emporia, Kans., October 23, 1923, plaintiff in
error, a member of the Chicago Board of Trade, in consideration of one dollar, signed and delivered the following privilege or option, in the form commonly known
as an "indemnity," addressed to R. F. Teichgraeber, for
a contract for the sale of grain: "I will sell one thousand
bushels of contract grade wheat at $1.1114 per bushel,
for delivery during May, 1924, same to be delivered in
regular warehouses under the rules of the Board of Trade
of the City of Chicago. This offer is made subject to
acceptance by you until the closing hour for regular trading on October 24, 1923." The transaction was one of
those described by § 3 as "privileges, bids, offers, puts
and calls, indemnities, or ups and downs."
After duly advising the Collector that he denied validity
of the tax, plaintiff in error affixed to this written instrument two hundred dollars of internal revenue stamps.
For many years prior to August 24, 1921, members of
grain exchanges bought and sold in large quantities agreements for contracts for purchase or sale of grain subject
to acceptance within a definite time thereafter, commonly
known as" indemnities." When the holder of one of these
elected to exercise his rights the specified amount of grain
was bought or sold on the exchange indicated for future
delivery, and the agreement was thus finally consummated.
By far the larger percentage of such agreements were
subject to acceptance during the following day at a price

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

ordinarily within one-fourth to three-fourths of a cent of
the price prevailing when the market closed on day of the
agreement. During many years the uniform consideration
paid was one dollar per thousand bushels.
When the holder elected to exercise the option the
transaction could be carried out only through and by
members of exchanges open to sales for future delivery.
The stipulated facts reveal the cost, terms and use of
"indemnity" contracts together with their relation to
boards of trade and indicate quite plainly that § 3 was not
intended to produce revenue but to prohibit all such contracts as part of the prescribed regulatory plan. The
major part of this plan was condemned in Hill v. Wallace,
and § 3, being a mere feature without separate purpose,
must share the invalidity of the whole. Wolff Packing
Co. v. Industrial Court, 267 U. S. 552, 569.
This conclusion seems inevitable when consideration is
given to the title of the Act, the price usually paid for
such options, the size of the prescribed tax (20 cents per
bushel), the practical inhibition of all transactions within
the terms of § 3, the consequent impossibility of raising
any revenue thereby, and the intimate relation of that
section to the unlawful scheme for regulation under guise
of taxation. The imposition is a penalty, and in no proper
sense a tax. Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20; Lipke v.
Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, 561; Linder v. United States,
268 U. S. 5.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.

