396

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concur

in the result on the ground that the plaintiff was not violating the statute by any criterion available in the vicinity of Cleveland.
PERRY BROWNING ET AL. v. E. M. HOOPER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 256.

Argued November 17, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A Texas statute authorizes fifty property taxpaying voters, by
petition to the ommissioners' court of a county, to designate territory of which they are residents within the county as a road district and the amount of bonds to be issued for road improvements
within the district, not to exceed one-fourth of the assessed value
of real property therein, whereupon it becomes the duty of the commissioners' court to order an election in the district, as so described,
for the purpose of determining whether the bonds in the amount
named in the petition shall be issued and whether a tax shall be
levied upon the property of the district for their payment; and if
two-thirds of the votes at such election favor the proposition, the
commissioners' court is required to issue and sell the bonds and
levy a tax sufficient to pay them as they mature, by assessments
on the same valuation, and which become liens and may be enforced
in the same manner, as state and county taxes. Held, (a) that
assessments so authorized and levied were special assessments for
local improvements, not general taxes; (b) that a district so created
could not be regarded as one created by the legislature, even though
coincident in boundaries with two adjacent "commissioners' precincts "; (c) that the assessments were not legislative assessments.
P. 403.
2. Where a special improvement district is not crated by the legislature or a municipality to which the State has graxkted full legislative powers over the subject, and where there has beel. no legislative
determination that the property to be assessed for the improvement
will be benefited thereby, it is essential to due process of law that
the property owner be given notice and an opportunity to be heard
on the question of benefits. P. 405.
3 Fed. (2d) 160, reversed.

BROWNING v. HOOPER.
396

Argument for Appellants.

APPEAL from a decree of the District -Court which dis-

missed the bill in a suit to restrain the issuance or sale of
bonds of a road district.
Messrs. William R. Watkins and C. K. Walsh, for
appellants.
The whole theory underlying the law of special assessments is that in the exaction thereof it is assumed that
there has been a legislative determination that the portion
of the community upon which they are laid is peculiarly
benefited by the improvement. The principle applies as
well to districts created by the legislature as to those
created under delegated authority.
A state legislature cannot abdicate its power of taxation
by delegating to private citizens the authority to fix the
boundaries of and establish a taxing district, because this
is a legislative question requiring deliberation by the
legislature or under its direction. Due process requires
that the powers vested in the government be exercised by
the government and not by private individuals. These
principles apply to the establishment of special assessment districts for public improvements to the same extent
they have been applied to cases arising under the police
power, in which it has been held by this Court that the
Fourteenth Amendment is violated by vesting arbitrary
power in private individuals to determine whether a business may be conducted in a certain locality or not, and,
by vesting arbitrary power in private individuals to establish a property line. No law for the establishment of a
special assessment district, other than by a legislative
body, without notice or hearing has ever been held constitutional. A law permitting petitioners to irrevocably
define and establish a taxing district is of such a nature,
as that there is no reasonable probability that justice
generally will be done in its application. Where a taxing
Aktrict is not established by the legislature, but under its

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees.

269 U. S.

delegated authority, it is essential to due process, that
those affected thereby be given notice and an opportunity
to be heard upon the question whether their property
would be benefited by the improvement or not.
The cases in this Court fall into three classes. (1)
Those in which, the power of establishing the district
being vested in the legislature, the district is established
by the legislature-when no notice 6r hearing is essential;
(2) those in which the organic law vests the legislative
power directly in a subordinate agency. In these two
classes the law is always sustained unless it appears that
there is no reasonable presumption that substantial justice will be done, but the probability is the parties will be
taxed disproportionately to each other and to the benefits
conferred. The third class comprehends those cases in
which the district is not established by the legislature
but by an exercise of delegated authority (as in this case),
and therefore in the location of the boundaries and the
creation of the district it is essential to due process that
the owners be accorded an opportunity to be heard.
The district involved in this suit was established in
1924 under a general prospective law adopted by the legislature of Texas in 1909 and under that law is a "defined
district." The record does not show that it is a "political
subdivision."
Mr. John R. Moore, with whom Messrs. Dan Moody,
Attorney General of Texas, C. A. Wheeter, Assistant Attorney General of Texas, and W. E. Forgy were on the
brief, for appellees.
The facts show that Road District No. 2 is composed
of two of the commissioners' precincts of Archer County,
"political subdivisions" of the county which were established, recognized and ascertained long before the beginning of this controversy. The Constitution of Texas in
effect created the district and fixed the tax. The Consti-

BROWNING v. HOOPER.
396

Argument for Appellees.

tution and the statutes of Texas did and authorized the
doing of the things complained of by appellant. These
political subdivisions included in the Road District when
thrown together became a "defined district." The tax
was fixed both by the Constitution and statutes in the
provision that bonds should not be issued exceeding onefourth the value of the real estate of the political subdivision or defined district. The question then arises
whether the building of roads is of general benefit or
is theoretical'y for the benefit of those whose property
may be conti~uous to or in the neighborhood of the roads.
The facts show that both of the roads sought to be improved have been designated as state highways, and one
of the roads has been selected and designated by the federal highway engineer as recipient of federal aid in the
building of highways. Public roads in Texas have always
been state property over which the State has full control
and authority. Robbins v. Limestone County, 268 S. W.
915; Baker v; Dunning, 77 Texas, 28.
In the building of public roads benefit is presumed just
as the building of schools and the levying of taxes to
maintain them is presumed to benefit the public generally.
Wright v. Police Jury, 264 Fed. 705, is almost identical
with the case here. The building and construction of
public roads is a governmental function and one to be
exercised by sovereignty. As for the matters of benefits
and notice, see Fallbrook Irrig.Dist. v. Bradley, 164 U. S.
176; Walston v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 578; Dallas County
Levee Dist. v. Looney, 109 Texas 326. In the exercise of
governmental functions no particular or special notice is
required to be given to the individual whose property
may be affected thereby. It is the province of the sovereignty to say how a State shall be divided and to determine what shall constitute a political subdivision, and also
to determine the machinery necessary for the proper
operation and function of all governmental affairs. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the theory of sovereignty that public education and transportation are for the general benefit of the public, regardless of any direct benefit that may or may not accrue to
the particular individual, and it would be the duty of
sovereignty to function in the establishment of public
highways, even though their establishment might in some
instances harm the individual to a greater extent than he
would be benefited. In such instances the individual is
not entitled to any special notice that the authority of the
sovereign will be exercised. Wright v. Police Jury, supra.
Mr. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellants own taxable real and personal property in
that part of Archer County, Texas, defined as Road District No. 2. The appellees are the county judge and four
commissioners, (constituting the county commissioners'
court,) the tax assessor and the sheriff of the county, who
is the tax collector. Appellants brought this suit to restrain the issue or sale of bonds of the road district in
the amount of $300,000 proposed to be sold to obtain
money for the construction, operation, and maintenance
of roads in that district, and to restrain the levy or collection of any tax upon their property to pay any part of
the interest or principal of the bonds. They seek relief
on the ground that the creation of the road district and
the enforcement of the proposed tax, will deprive them
of their property without Alue process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. The District Court dismissed the complaint. 3 Fed. (2d) 160. The case is here
on direct appeal. § 238, Judicial Code.
The Texas statutes (Vernon's Complete Texas Statutes,
1920) provide: "Any county . . . or any political
subdivision or defined district, now or hereafter to be described and defined, of a county," is authorized to issue
bonds, not to exceed one-fourth of the assessed valuation

BROWNING v. HOOPER.
396

Opinion of the Court.

of real property in the district, for the construction, maintenance and operation of macadamized, graveled or paved
roads and turnpikes, and to levy and collect taxes to pay
them. Art. 627. Upon the petition of fifty resident
property taxpaying voters of any defined district of any
county, it is the duty of the commissioners' court to order
an election in the district as described in the petition to
determine whether its bonds shall be issued for such road
purposes, and whether a tax shall be levied upon the property of the district for their payment. Art. 628. If twothirds of the votes cast are in favor of the proposition, the
commissioners' court is required to issue and sell the bonds.
Art. 631. But before they are put on the market, the
court is required to levy a tax sufficient to pay the debt
as it matures. The assessments are to be made on the
same valuation, and they become liens and may be enforced in the same manner, as state and county taxes.
Arts. 634, 2827, 2836. For the purposes of the act, any
district accepting its provisions by such vote is thereby
created a body corporate which may sue and be sued.
Art. 637.
Archer County is about 30 .miles square, and has a
population of between 5000 and 6000. The principal
place is Archer City, the county seat, located 'about five
miles south and three miles east of the center of the'
county. Road District No. 2 embraces approximately the
northerly half of the county, including a part of Archer
City. The Ozark Trail is a federal aided state highway,
and about 20 miles of it extends diagonally across the
northwesterly part. Dundee is located on it about two
miles from the west line of the county. There is a highway extending from that place to Diversion Dam about
six miles northwest. About 18 miles of the Southwest
Trail lies between Arch-r City and a point on the north
line of the county about six miles from its northeast
corner. There is another highway extending from a point

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

on the Southwest Trail about two miles south of the
county line to Holliday on the Ozark Trail about six miles
west. These roads axe within the road district, and the
bonds issued are to raise money to improve them.
January 17, 1924, there was presented to the commissioners' court a petition signed by 74 persons.
It
prayed an election, to determine whether bonds of the
territory, therein described by metes and bounds, and to
be designated as "Road District No. 2 of Archer County,
Texas," should be issued for road purposes in the amount
of $300,000; and whether a tax should be levied'upon the
property therein to pay the bonds. The commissioners'
court by order established the district within the metes
and bounds and for the purposes set forth in the petition, and declared it to be a body corporate. On the
same day the court fixed the time and place for an election. Its result was 30a votes for and 102 against the
bond issue. Thereupon the court ordered the bonds to
be issued, and levied the taxes. Before the election was
called, the court determined that the proceeds of the
bonds, if voted, or so much as might be necessary, should
be expended for the roads above described.
The appellants' lands--24,900 acres in all-are in the
northeasterly part of the county. All but one of the petitioners are residents of the part of Archer City that is
within the road district. Archer City, Dundee and Holliday furnished 252 votes for the bond issue,-more than
twice the number cast against it. Nearly all the votes
cast in the northeasterly part of the county were negative. The taxable property in the district is assessed at
$5,683,359, of which $257,080 belongs to appellants, and
$111,388 to petitioners; and $60,500 of that amount belongs to one signer, leaving only $50,888 to the other 73.
The part of the district in which appellants' lands are
situated'is tributary to Wichita Falls, which is outside
Archer County, but near its northeast corner. The evi-

BROWNING v. HOOPER.
396

403

Opinion of the Court.

dence persuasively supports appellants' contention
that
the improvements of the roads designated will not benefit
their property. Moreover, the inclusion of their lands
in that road district makes it impossible, until the last
bonds mature 30 years hence, to create another road district to raise money for the improvement of roads needed
to serve the territory in which their lands are situated.
Art. 637d.
Resort may be had to general taxes and to special
assessments to raise funds for the construction or improvement of roads. Missouri Pacific Railroad v. Road
District, 266 U. S. 187, 190. The proceedings in this case
cannot be sustained as the levy of a general tax. The
commissioners' court is authorized to levy general tans
for road purposes up to a stated maximum on each $100
valuation. Art. 2242; Constitution Art. VIII, § 9. The
expenditure of the moneys so raised is not limited to any
specified roads. And it is significant that, in the case of
a road district, the court's duties in respect of the amount
to be raised and the lands to be subjected to the charge
are purely ministerial, and confined solely to carrying out
the will of the petitioners when approved at the election.
Here, on the initiation of individuals signing the petition,
a special district was carved out to furnish credit and to
pay for specified improvements on designated roads
wholly within the territory selected. The purpose was
special, and the district will cease to exist as a body
corporate upon the payment of the bond debt. It is clear
that the burdens here sought to be imposed on appellants'
lands are special assessments for local improvements.
Embree v. Kansas City Road District, 240 U. S. 242, 247;
Illinois Central Railroad v. Decatur, 147 U. S. 190, 197,
209.
The legislature did not create the road district, levy the
tax or fix the amount to be raised. Under the act, road

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

districts are not required to correspond with or to include
any political subdivision. Moore v. Commissioners'
Court, (Tex. Civ. App.) 175 S. W. 849; Bell County v.
Hines, (Tex. Civ. App.) 219 S. W. 556. There is nothing
in the law to guide or to limit the action of the signers
of the petition in selecting property to be assessed. Subject to the vote of a district of their own choice, the petitioners' designation is absolute. The commissioners' court
has no power to modify or deny; it is bound to grant the
petition. Huggins v. Vaden, (Tex Civ. App.) 253 S. W.
877, 878; 259 S. W. 204, 206; Meurer v. Hooper, (Tex.
Civ. App.) 271 S. W. 172, 176. And when the required
vote is given, the court, once for all, must make a levy on
the taxable property of the district sufficient to pay the
entire debt as it matures. The opinion of the District
Court states that the road district "was composed of
two of the precincts of Archer County-' political subdivisions' of the county well recognized and ascertained
long before the controversy." We find nothing in the
record to support the statement. But, if true, it does not
tend to show that the legislature created the road district.
A political subdivision is not a "defined district" within
the meaning of the Texas Constitution (Art. III, § 52)
or of the act. It has been held by the Texas Court of
Civil Appeals that a "defined district" means a defined
area in a county, and less than a county, other than a
political subdivision of a county. Bell County v. Hines,
supra, 557. The fact that the metes and bounds describing the road district happened to coincide with the external boundaries of two adjoining commissioners' precincts does not support the contention that the road
district was created by the legislature. For the election
of commissioners, each county is divided into four precincts, from each of which a commissioner is elected.
These precincts are not defined by the legislature, but by
the commissioners' courts. Art. 1356; Constitution, Art.

BROWNING v. HOOPER.
396

Opinion of the Court.

V, § 18. They are political subdivisions, but, unlike road
districts, they are not bodies corporate. See Ex parte
Haney, 51 Tex. Cr. Rep. 634; Cofield v. Britton, (Tex.
Civ. App.) 109 S. W. 493, 496. They are not taxing or
assessment districts; their powers and functions are
wholly different from those of a road district. And
plainly, the authority granted (Art. 627) to issue road
bonds up to one-fourth the assessed valuation and to levy
taxes ratably to pay them is not a legislative determination of the rate or amount of the tax imposed on appellants' property. The amount of the bonds to be issued
and the property to be taxed are the elements which
determine the burden. These were fixed by the petition
and election. The legislature may make assessments for
local improvements ratably on the basis of properfy valuation (Valley Farms Co. v. Westchester, 261 U. S. 155) ;
but, where the amount to be raised is determined and the
property to be assessed is selected as in this case, the
requirement that the burden shall be so spread is not a
legislative assessment.
Where a local improvement territory is selected, and
the burden is spread by the legislature or by a municipality to which the State has granted full legislative
powers over the subject, the owners of property in the
district have no constitutional right to be heard on the
question of benefits. Valley Farms Co. v. Westchester,
supra; Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U. S.454,459; Withnell
v. Construction Co., 249 U. S. 63, 69; Wright v. Police
Jury, 264 Fed. 705. But it is essential to due process of
law that such owners be given notice and opportunity
to be heard on that question where, as here, the district
was not created by the legislature, and there has been no
legislative determination that their property will be benefited by the local improvement. Appellants were denied
all opportunity to be heard. No officer or tribunal was
empowered by the law of the State to hear them, or to

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

406

Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

consider and determine whether the road improvements
in question would benefit their lands. The act is repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Embree v. Kansas City Road District, supra, 251.
Decree reversed.
MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. GONEAU.
CERTIORARI TO

THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE OF

MINNESOTA.,

No. 76.

Argued December 3, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A brakeman, in an endeavor to couple a train where it had parted
between two cars while en route due to a defect in one of the automatic couplings, went between the ends of the cars and, while
exerting himself to bring the defective part into place, lost his
balance as a result of its sudden yielding, fell from a bridge on
which the cars had stopped and suffered injury. Held:
(1) That the defective car was in use, though motionless; P. 409.
(2) The act of the brakeman was a coupling, not a repair, operation; P. 410.
(3) The defective, coupling was a proximate cause of the accident and, it being in violation of the Safety Appliance Act, the
brakeman, under § 4 of the Employers' Liability Act, did not assume the risk; Id.
(4) Section 4 of the Supplemental Safety Appliance Act of 1910,
which permits defective cars, in certain circumstances, to be hauled
without penalties, to the nearest available point of repair, but
without releasing the carrier from liability for the injury of any
employee caused by or in connection with such hauling, had no
application. Id.
159 Minn. 41, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota affirming a recovery of damages for personal
injures.

Mr. John E. Palmer, with whom Mr. Marshall A.
Spooner was on the brief, for petitioner.

