1380

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

BUSTOP, INC. v. BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE
CITY OF LOS ANGELES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-249.

Decided September 8, 1978

Application to stay, pending the filing of a petition for certiorari or
an appeal, California Supreme Court's order vacating Court of Appeal's
stay against enforcement of trial court's desegregation order for the
Los Angeles school system requiring extensive busing of students, is
denied. It appears that the California Supreme Court continues to be
of the view that the State Constitution requires less of a showing on
the part of plaintiffs who seek court-ordered busing than this Court has
required of plaintiffs who seek similar relief under the Federal Constitution. Thus, applicant's complaint involves state law and should be
resolved in the state courts. Accordingly, it is unlikely that four Justices of this Court would vote to grant certiorari to review the California
Supreme Court's judgment.

MR. JUSTICE RERaNQuIsT, Circuit Justice.

Applicant Bustop, Inc., supported by the Attorney General
of California, requests that I stay, pending the filing of a
petition for certiorari or an appeal, the order of the Supreme
Court of California. That order vacated a supersedeas or stay
issued by the California Court of Appeal, which had in turn
stayed the enforcement of a school desegregation order issued
by the Superior Court of Los Angeles County.
The desegregation plan challenged by applicant apparently
requires the reassignment of over 60,000 students. In terms
of numbers it is one of the most extensive desegregation
plans in the United States. The essential logic of the plan
is to pair elementary and junior high schools having a 70%
or greater Anglo majority with schools having more than a
70% minority enrollment. Paired schools are often miles
apart, and the result is extensive transportation of students.
Applicant contends that round-trip distances are generally in
the range of 36 to 66 miles. Apparently some students must

BUSTOP, INC. v. LOS ANGELES BOARD OF EDUCATION
1380

1381

Opinion in Chambers

catch buses before 7 a. m. and have a l'/2 -hour ride to school.
The objective of the plan is to insure that all schools in the
Los Angeles Unified School District have Anglo and minority
percentages between 70% and 30%.
Applicant urges on behalf of students who will be transported pursuant to the order of the Superior Court that the
order of the Supreme Court of California is at odds with this
Court's recent school desegregation decisions in Dayton Board
of Education v. Brinkman, 433 U. S. 406 (1977), Brennan v.
Armstrong, 433 U. S. 672 (1977), and School District of Omaha
v. United States, 433 U. S. 667 (1977). The California Court
of Appeal, which stayed the order of the Superior Court,
observed that the doctrine of these cases "reflects a refinement
of earlier case law which should not and cannot be ignored."
The majority of the Supreme Court of California, however, in
a special session held Wednesday, September 6, vacated the
supersedeas or stay issued by the Court of Appeal and
denied applicant's request for a stay of the order of the
Superior Court.
Were the decision of the Supreme Court of California premised on the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, I would be inclined to
agree with the conclusion of the California Court of Appeal
that the remedial order entered by the Superior Court in
response to earlier decisions of the Supreme Court of California
was inconsistent with our decisions cited above. But the
earlier opinion of the Supreme Court of California in this case,
Crawford v. Board of Education, 17 Cal. 3d 280, 551 P. 2d 28
(1976), and Jackson v. PasadenaCity School District, 59 Cal.
2d 876, 382 P. 2d 878 (1963), construe the California State
Constitution to require less of a showing on the part of plaintiffs who seek court-ordered busing than this Court has required
of plaintiffs who seek similar relief under the United States
Constitution. Although the California Court of Appeal is of
the view that this Court's cases would require a different result

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

from that reached by the Supreme Court of California in
Crawford, and although the order of the Supreme Court of
California issued Wednesday was not accompanied by a written
opinion, in the short time available to me to decide this matter
I think the fairest construction is that the Supreme Court of
California continues to be of the view which it announced in
Jackson and adhered to in Crawford. Quite apart from any
issues as to finality, it is this conclusion which effectively
disposes of applicant's suggestion that four Justices of this
Court would vote to grant certiorari to review the judgment
of the Supreme Court of California, which in effect overturned
the order of the Court of Appeal and reinstated the order of
the Superior Court.
Applicant relies upon my action staying the judgment and
order of the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Columbus
Board of Education v. Penick, ante, p. 1348, but that case is,
of course, different in that the only authority that a federal
court has to order desegregation or busing in a local school
district arises from the United States Constitution. But the
same is not true of state courts. So far as this Court is concerned, they are free to interpret the Constitution of the
State to impose more stringent restrictions on the operation
of a local school board.
Applicant phrases its contention in this language:
"Unlike desegregation cases coming to this Court through
the lower federal courts, of which there must be hundreds,
if not thousands, here the issue is novel. The issue: May
California in an attempt to racially balance schools use
its doctrine of independent state grounds to ignore the
federal rights of its citizens to be free from racial quotas,
and to be free from extensive pupil transportation that
destroys fundamental rights of liberty and privacy." Application for Stay 16.11.
But this is not the traditional argument of a local school board
contending that it has been required by court order to imple-

BUSTOP, INC. v. LOS ANGELES BOARD OF EDUCATION
1380

1383

Opinion in Chambers

ment a pupil assignment plan which was not justified by the
Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
The argument is indeed novel, and suggests that each citizen
of a State who is either a parent or a schoolchild has a "federal
right" to be "free from racial quotas and to be free from
extensive pupil transportation that destroys fundamental
rights of liberty and privacy." While I have the gravest
doubts that the Supreme Court of California was requiredby
the United States Constitution to take the action that it has
taken in this case, I have very little doubt that it was permitted by that Constitution to take such action.
Even if I were of the view that applicant had a stronger
federal claim on the merits, the fact that the Los Angeles
schools are scheduled to open on Tuesday, September 12, is
an equitable consideration which counsels against once more
upsetting the expectations of the parties in this case. The
Los Angeles Board of Education has been ordered by the Superior Court of Los Angeles County to bus an undoubtedly
large number of children to schools other than those closest to
where they live. The Board, however, raises before me no
objection to the plan, and the Supreme Court of California has
apparently placed its imprimatur on it. I conclude that the
complaints of the parents and the children in question are
complaints about California state law, and it is in the forums
of that State that these questions must be resolved. The application for a stay is accordingly
Denied.

