OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS

NEW YORK TIMES CO.

ET AL.

V. JASCALEVICH

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-38.

Decided July 11, 1978

MmR. JUSTICE WHITE.
Since MR. JuSTICE BRENNAN has disqualified himself in this
matter, I have before me an application for stay of an order
of the Supreme Court of New Jersey of July 6, 1978, which
refused to stay and denied leave to appeal from an order of a
state trial court refusing to quash a subpoena issued in the
course of an ongoing criminal trial for murder. The order of
the trial court, issued June 30, ordered the New York Times
Co. and Myron Farber, a reporter for the New York Times,
to produce certain documents covered by a subpoena served
upon them in New York pursuant to the Uniform Act to
Secure the Attendance of Witnesses from Without a State in
Criminal Proceedings, N. J. Stat. Ann. §§ 2A:81-18 to 2A:
S1-23 (West 1976). The subpoena was issued at the behest
of the defendant in the New Jersey murder trial; and the
documents, which were sought for the purpose of crossexamining prosecution witnesses, included statements, pictures,
recordings, and notes of interviews with respect to witnesses
for the defense or prosecution. The subpoena was challenged
by applicants on the grounds that it was overbroad and sought
irrelevant material and hence was illegal under state law; that
it violated the state Reporter's Shield Law; and that it invaded rights of the reporter and the press protected by the
First Amendment to the United States Constitution.
In denying the motion to quash and in ordering in camera
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

inspection, the trial judge, having already certified that the
documents sought were "necessary and material for the defendant in this criminal proceeding," stated that when the
materials had been produced for his inspection, he would afford
applicants a full hearing on the issues, including the state-law
issues of the scope of the subpoena and the materiality of the
documents sought, as well as upon the claim under the state
Shield Law.
I cannot with confidence predict that four Members of the
Court would now vote to grant a petition for certiorari at this
stage of the proceedings. Orders denying motions to quash
subpoenas are not usually appealable in the federal court
system, UnitedStates v. Nixon, 418 U. S. 683, 690-691 (1974);
United States v. Ryan, 402 U. S. 530, 532 (1971); Cobbledick
v. United States, 309 U. S. 323, 324--326 (1940); Alexander v.
United States, 201 U. S. 117 (1906), and since leave to appeal
was denied in this case it may be that such orders are not
appealable in the New Jersey system. The applicants insist
that, as a constitutional matter, the rule must be different
where, as here, the subpoena runs against a reporter and the
press, and that more basis for enforcing the subpoena must be
shown than appears in this record. There is no present
authority in this Court that a newsman need not produce
documents material to the prosecution or defense of a criminal
case, cf. Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S. 665 (1972), or that the
obligation to obey an otherwise valid subpoena served on a
newsman is conditioned upon the showing of special circumstances. But if the Court is to address the issue tendered by
applicants, it appears to me that it would prefer to do so at a
later stage in these proceedings. The asserted federal issue
might not survive the trial court's in camera inspection should
applicants prevail on any of their state-law issues. Nor, in
light of the trial court's evident views that the documents
sought appear sufficiently material to warrant in camera in-

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

spection, do I perceive any irreparable injury to applicants'
rights that would warrant staying the enforcement of the
subpoena at this juncture. Cf. United States v. Nixon, supra,
at 714.
The application for stay is denied. Of course, applicants
are free to seek relief from another Justice.

