UNITED METHODIST COUNCIL v. SUPERIOR COURT

1369

Opinion in Chambers

GENERAL COUNCIL ON FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION, UNITED METHODIST CHURCH v. CALIFORNIA SUPERIOR COURT, SAN DIEGO
COUNTY (BARR ET AL., REAL
PARTIES IN INTEREST)
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-200 (78-300).

Decided September 1, 1978

Application to stay, pending review by certiorari, California. Superior
Court proceedings in which applicant nonresident religious organization
is a defendant and in which the Superior Court had denied applicant's
motion to quash service of process for lack of in- personam jurisdiction
is denied, where it appears unlikely that four Justices of this Court will
vote to grant certiorari.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

The General Council on Finance and Administration of
the United Methodist Church requests that proceedings in
the Superior Court of the State of California for the County
of San Diego, in which it is a defendant, be stayed as to it
pending this Court's consideration of its petition for a writ
of certiorari. Applicant, an Illinois not-for-profit corporation,
is one of six defendants in a class action seeking, inter alia,
damages for breach of contract, fraud, and violations of state
securities laws arising out of .the financial collapse of the
Pacific Homes Corp., a California nonprofit corporation that
operated 14 retirement homes and convalescent hospitals
on the west coast. Barr v. United Methodist Church, No.
404611 (Cal. Super. Ct., San Diego County, Mar. 20, 1978).
Respondent real parties in interest (hereafter respondents),
some 1,950 present and former residents of the homes, allege
that Pacific Homes was the alter ego, agency, or instrumentality of the United Methodist Church (Methodist Church),
applicant, and certain other defendants affiliated with the
Methodist Church. The judgment at issue is the Superior

1370

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

Court's denial of applicant's motion to quash service of process
for lack of in personam jurisdiction. That court, in a minute
order decision, concluded that applicant was "doing business"
in the State of California and, therefore, was subject to the
jurisdiction of the California courts. Applicant's petition for
a writ of mandate to review the judgment of the Superior
Court was denied by the Court of Appeal for the Fourth
Appellate District in a one-sentence order, and the California
Supreme Court summarily denied applicant's petition for a
hearing on the issue. Thereafter, applicant was ordered by
the Superior Court to respond to respondents' complaint on
or before August 28, 1978. I granted a temporary stay of the
proceedings below to permit consideration of a response to the
application. Ante, p. 1355.
Applicant challenges the Superior Court's order on three
grounds. First, citing this Court's decision in Serbian Eastern Orthodox Diocese v. Milivojevich, 426 U. S. 696 (1976),
applicant maintains that the Superior Court violated the First
and Fourteenth Amendments in basing its assertion of jurisdiction on respondents' characterization of applicant's role in
the structure of the Methodist Church and rejecting contrary
testimony of church officials and experts and statements set
forth in the Book of Discipline, which contains the constitution and bylaws of the Methodist Church. Applicant's next
contention is that use of the "minimum contacts" standard
of InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S. 310 (1945),
in determining jurisdiction over a nonresident religious organization violates the First and Fourteenth Amendments. Finally, applicant argues that even under the traditional
minimum-contacts mode of analysis, its connection with the
State of California is too attenuated, under the standards implicit in the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, to justify imposing upon it the burden of a defense in
California.
Because the Superior Court's order denied a pretrial motion,

UNITED METHODIST COUNCIL v. SUPERIOR COURT 1371
1369

Opinion in Chambers

an initial question is whether the judgment below is
"final" within the meaning of 28 U. S. C. § 1257, which
permits this Court to review only "[f]inal judgments or
decrees rendered by the highest court of a State in which a
decision could be had . . ." Applicant argues that it can
preserve its jurisdictional argument only by suffering a default
judgment, since under California law in order to defend on
the merits it must appear generally and, accordingly, waive its
objection to in personam jurisdiction. See McCorkle v. Los
Angeles, 70 Cal. 2d 252, 449 P. 2d 453 (1969). It therefore
finds itself between Scylla and Charybdis, and, citing Shaffer v.
Heitner, 433 U. S. 186 (1977), asserts that under such circumstances the Superior Court's judgment is final. In
Shaffer, this Court, taking a "pragmatic approach" to the
question of finality, held that a Delaware court's pretrial
decision to assert jurisdiction over the defendants was final
within the meaning of § 1257 because under Delaware law the
defendants' only choices were to incur default judgments or
to file general appearances and defend on the merits, thereby
submitting themselves to the court's jurisdiction. 433 U. S.,
at 195-196, n. 12. Respondents contest applicant's interpretation of California procedural law. They claim that a defendant can defend on the merits and still preserve his
jurisdictional objections so long as he seeks immediate appellate review of an adverse decision on a motion to quash. See
Cal. Civ. Proc. Code Ann. § 418.10 (West 1973). As noted
above, applicant did avail itself of this procedure.
If the views of the respective parties are each to be credited,
California law may not be clear on this issue, and it certainly
is not within my province to resolve their differences with
respect to it.* If California procedural law is as applicant
"I recognize that
this Court may hold
as to the finality of
Jacalevich, ante, p.

in determining whether to grant a stay, Members of
differing views on the weight to be accorded any doubt
a state-court judgment. See New York Times Co. v.
1331 (DLARsHArLL, J., in chambers); New York Times

1372

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

describes it, I am convinced that this Court would find the
Superior Court's judgment to be "final" within the meaning
of § 1257.

See Shaffer v. Heitner, supra; Cox Broadcasting

Corp. v. Cohn, 420 U. S. 469 (1975). I need not resolve this
issue, however, since I have concluded that even if the Superior Court's order were a final judgment under § 1257, a stay
is nonetheless not warranted in this case.
Any intrusion into state-court proceedings at an interlocutory stage must be carefully considered and will be granted
only upon a showing of compelling necessity. Bateman v.
Arizona, 429 U. S. 1302, 1305 (1976) (REHNQUIST, J., in
chambers). Those proceedings are presumptively valid. See
Whalen v. Roe, 423 U. S. 1313, 1316 (1975) (MARSHALL, J., in
chambers). A party seeking a stay of a state-court judgment
or proceeding must first demonstrate that there is a reasonable
probability that four Justices will consider the issues sufficiently meritorious to vote to grant certiorari or note probable jurisdiction. Bateman v. Arizona, supra, at 1305. Applicant has failed to clear this first hurdle.
In my view, applicant plainly is wrong when it asserts that
the First and Fourteenth Amendments prevent a civil court
from independently examining, and making the ultimate decision regarding, the structure and actual operation of a hierarchical church and its constituent units in an action such
as this. There are constitutional limitations on the extent to
which a civil court may inquire into and determine matters
of ecclesiastical cognizance and polity in adjudicating intrachurch disputes. See Serbian Eastern Orthodox Diocese v.
Milivojevich. But this Court never has suggested that those
constraints similarly apply outside the context of such intraorganization disputes. Thus, Serbian Eastern Orthodox
Diocese and the other cases cited by applicant are not in point.
Co. v. Jascalevich, ante, p. 1317 (WHIM, J., in chambers); Bateman v.
Arizona, 429 U. S. 1302, 1306 (1976) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers). It
is not necessary to explore that issue in this case.

UNITED MXIETHODIST COUNCIL v. SUPERIOR COURT
1369

1373

Opinion in Chambers

Those cases are premised on a perceived danger that in resolving intrachurch disputes the State'will become entangled
in essentially religious controversies or intervene on behalf of
groups espousing particular doctrinal beliefs. 426 U. S., at
709-710. Such considerations are not applicable to purely
secular disputes between third parties and a particular defendant, albeit a religious affiliated organization, in which fraud,
breach of contract, and statutory violations are alleged. As
the Court stated in another context: "Nothing we have said is
intended even remotely to imply that, under the cloak of
religion, persons may, with impunity, commit frauds upon the
public." Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 306 (1940).
Nor is it entirely clear that the Superior Court's determination of the jurisdictional question was based upon its interpretation of Methodist polity; it is equally likely that the court's
decision was founded on the related but separate issue of
applicant's contacts with the State of California.
Likewise untenable, in my view, is applicant's claim that
the First and Fourteenth Amendments somehow forbid resort
to traditional minimum-contacts analysis in determining the
existence of in personam jurisdiction over a defendant that
is affiliated with an organized religion. Not surprisingly,
applicant has failed to cite any authority in support of this
novel proposition.
The only remaining issue presented by applicant is whether
the quality and nature of its contacts with the State of
California are such that "maintenance of the suit [in the forum
state] does not offend 'traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.'" InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington,
326 U. S., at 316, quoting, Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U. S. 457,
463 (1940). Such questions generally tend to depend on the
particular facts of each case, Kulko v. California Superior
Court, 436 U. S. 84 (1978), and I believe that only a marked
departure by a lower court in the application of established
law would persuade four Justices to grant certiorari. While

1374

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

the Superior Court's decision does not purport to resolve all of
the factual disputes between the parties, there is no indication
that it failed to apply the due process standards enunciated in
International Shoe, and cases which have followed it, to the
circumstances presented, and, therefore, I believe it unlikely
that this issue would command the votes necessary for
certiorari.
Accordingly, the application for a stay pending review on
certiorari is denied. The temporary stay I previously entered
is hereby terminated.

