OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Syllabus

439 U. S.

GIVHAN v. WESTERN LINE CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL

DISTRICT

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT

No. 77-1051.

Argued November 7, 1978-Decided January 9, 1979

After petitioner was dismissed from her employment as a teacher, she
intervened in a desegregation action against respondent School District,
seeking reinstatement on the ground, inter alia, that her dismissal
infringed her right of free speech under the First and Fourteenth
Amendments. In an effort to justify the dismissal, the School District
introduced evidence of, inter alia, a series of private encounters between
petitioner and the school principal in which petitioner allegedly made
"petty and unreasonable demands" in a manner variously described by
the principal as "insulting," "hostile," "loud," and "arrogant." Concluding that the primary reason for the dismissal was petitioner's
criticism of the School District's practices and policies, which she conceived to be racially discriminatory, the District Court held that the
dismissal violated petitioner's First Amendment rights and ordered her
reinstatement. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that under
Pickering v. Board of Education, 391 U. S. 563; Perry v. Sindermann,
408 U. S. 593; and Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle, 429 U. S.
274, petitioner's complaints and opinions were not protected by the
First Amendment because they were expressed privately to the principal,
and because there is no constitutional right to "press even 'good' ideas
on an unwilling recipient." Held: A public employee does not forfeit
his First Amendment protection against governmental abridgment of
freedom of speech when he arranges to communicate privately with his
employer rather than to express his views publicly. Pp. 413-417.
(a) Pickering, Perry, and Mt. Healthy do not support the Court of
Appeals' conclusion that private expression is unprotected by the First
Amendment. The fact that each of those cases involved public expression by the employee was not critical to the decision. Pp. 414-415.
(b) Nor is the Court of Appeals' view supported by the "captive
audience" rationale, since the principal, having opened his office door
to petitioner, was hardly in a position to argue that he was the
"unwilling recipient" of her views. P. 415.
(c) Respondents' Mt. Healthy claim, rejected by the Court of
Appeals, that the decision to terminate petitioner would have been made

GIVHAN v. WESTERN LINE CONSOL. SCHOOL DIST.
410

411

Opinion of the Court

even if her encounters with the principal had never occurred called for
a factual determination that could not, on the record, be resolved by
that court, since it was not presented to the District Court, Mt. Healthy
having been decided after the trial in this case. Pp. 416-417.
555 F. 2d 1309, vacated in part and remanded.
REHNQUIST, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. STEvENS,
J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 417.

David Rubin argued the cause for petitioner. With him on
the briefs were Stephen J. Pollak, Richard M. Sharp, and
Fred L. Banks.
J. Robertshaw argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents.*
MR. JusncE REHiQUIST delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner Bessie Givhan was dismissed from her employment as a junior high English teacher at the end of the 19701971 school year." At the time of petitioner's termination,
respondent Western Line Consolidated School District was
the subject of a desegregation order entered by the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi.
Petitioner filed a complaint in intervention in the desegregation action, seeking reinstatement on the dual grounds that
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by David M. Rabban
and William Van Alstyne for the American Association of University Professors, and by William A. Dobrovir and Andra N. Oakes for the Fund
for Constitutional Government and the Government Accountability
Project.
1In a letter to petitioner, dated July 28, 1971, District Superintendent
C. L. Morris gave the following reasons for the decision not to renew her
contract:
"(1) [A] flat refusal to administer standardized national tests to the
pupils in your charge; (2) an announced intention not to co-operate with
the administration of the Glen Allan Attendance Center; (3) and an
antagonistic and hostile attitude to the administration of the Glen Allan
Attendance Center demonstrated throughout the school year."

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

439 U. S.

nonrenewal of her contract violated the rule laid down
by the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Singleton v.
Jackson Municipal Separate School District, 419 F. 2d 1211
(1969), rev'd and remanded sub nom. Carterv. West Feliciana
Parish School Board, 396 U. S. 290 (1970), on remand, 425
F. 2d 1211 (1970), and infringed her right of free speech
secured by the First and Fourteenth Amendments of the
United States Constitution. In an effort to show that its
decision was justified, respondent School District introduced
evidence of, among other things,' a series of private encounters
between petitioner and the school principal in which petitioner allegedly made "petty and unreasonable demands" in
a manner variously described by the principal as "insulting,"
"hostile," "loud," and "arrogant." After a two-day bench
trial, the District Court held that petitioner's termination had
violated the First Amendment. Finding that petitioner had
made "demands" on but two occasions and that those demands
In addition to the reasons set out in the District Superintendent's termination letter to petitioner, n. 1, supra, the School District advanced several other justifications for its decision not to rehire petitioner. The Court
of Appeals dealt with these allegations in a footnote:
"Appellants also sought to establish these other bases for the decision not
to rehire: (1) that Givhan 'downgraded' the papers of white students;
(2) that she was one of a number of teachers who walked out of a meeting
about desegregation in the fall of 1969 and attempted to disrupt it by
blowing automobile horns outside the gymnasium; (3) that the school district had received a threat by Givhan and other teachers not to return to
work when schools reopened on a unitary basis in February, 1970; and
(4) that Givhan had protected a student during a weapons shakedown at
Riverside in March, 1970, by concealing a student's knife until completion
of a search. The evidence on the first three of these points was inconclusive and the district judge did not clearly err in rejecting or ignoring it.
Givhan admitted the fourth incident, but the district judge properly
rejected that as a justification for her not being rehired, as there was no
evidence that [the principal] relied on it in making his recommendation."
Ayers v. Western Line Consol. School Dist., 555 F. 2d 1309, 1313 n. 7
(CA5 1977).
2

GIVHAN v. WESTERN LINE CONSOL. SCHOOL DIST.
410

413

Opinion of the Court

"were neither 'petty' nor 'unreasonable,' insomuch as all
the complaints in question involved employment policies and
practices at [the] school which [petitioner] conceived to be
racially discriminatory in purpose or effect," the District
Court concluded that "the primary reason for the school district's failure to renew [petitioner's] contract was her criticism
of the policies and practices of the school district, especially
the school to which she was assigned to teach." App. to
Pet. for Cert. 35a. Accordingly, the District Court held that
the dismissal violated petitioner's First Amendment rights, as
enunciated in Perry v. Sindermann,408 U. S. 593 (1972), and
Pickering v. Board of Education, 391 U. S. 563 (1968), and
ordered her reinstatement.
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed. Ayers
v. Western Line Consol. School Dist., 555 F. 2d 1309 (1977).
Although it found the District Court's findings not clearly
erroneous, the Court of Appeals concluded that because petitioner had privately expressed her complaints and opinions
to the principal, her expression was not protected under the
First Amendment. Support for this proposition was thought
to be derived from Pickering, supra, Perry, supra, and Mt.
Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274 (1977),
which were found to contain "[t]he strong implication . . .
that private expression by a public employee is not constitutionally protected." 555 F. 2d, at 1318. The Court of
Appeals also concluded that there is no constitutional right
to "press even 'good' ideas on an unwilling recipient," saying that to afford public employees the right to such private expression "would in effect force school principals to be
ombudsmen, for damnable as well as laudable expressions."
Id., at 1319. We are unable to agree that private expression
of one's views is beyond constitutional protection, and therefore reverse the Court of Appeals' judgment and remand the
case so that it may consider the contentions of the parties
freed from this erroneous view of the First Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

439 U.S.

This Court's decisions in Pickering,Perry, and Mt. Healthy
do not support the conclusion that a public employee forfeits
his protection against governmental abridgment of freedom
of speech if he decides to express his views privately rather
than publicly. While those cases each arose in the context
of a public employee's public expression, the rule to be derived
from them is not dependent on that largely coincidental fact.
In Pickering a teacher was discharged for publicly criticizing, in a letter published in a local newspaper, the school
board's handling of prior bond issue proposals and its subsequent allocation of financial resources between the schools'
educational and athletic programs. Noting that the free
speech rights of public employees are not absolute, the Court
held that in determining whether a government employee's
speech is constitutionally protected, "the interests of the
[employee], as a citizen, in commenting upon matters of public concern" must be balanced against "the interest of the
State, as an employer, in promoting the efficiency of the public services it performs through its employees." 391 U. S., at
568. The Court concluded that under the circumstances of
that case "the interest of the school administration in limiting
teachers' opportunities to contribute to public debate [was] not
significantly greater than its interest in limiting a similar contribution by any member of the general public." Id., at 573.
Here the opinion of the Court of Appeals may be read to turn
in part on its view that the working relationship between
principal and teacher is significantly different from the relationship between the parties in Pickering,3 as is evidenced by
3

The Pickering Court's decision upholding a teacher's First Amendment
claim was influenced by the fact that the teacher's public statements had
not adversely affected his working relationship with the objects of his

criticism:
"The statements [were] in no way directed towards any person with
whom appellant would normally be in contact in the course of his daily
work as a teacher. Thus no question of maintaining either discipline by

GIVHAN v. WESTERN LINE CONSOL. SCHOOL DIST.
410

415

Opinion of the Court

its reference to its own opinion in Abbott v. Thetford, 534 F.
2d 1101 (1976) (en banc), cert. denied, 430 U. S. 954 (1977).

But we do not feel confident that the Court of Appeals'
decision would have been placed on that ground notwithstanding its view that the First Amendment does not require
the same sort of Pickeringbalancing for the private expression
of a public employee as it does for public expression'
Perry and Mt. Healthy arose out of similar disputes between
teachers and their public employers. As we have noted, however, the fact that each of these cases involved public expression by the employee was not critical to the decision. Nor is
the Court of Appeals' view supported by the "captive
audience" rationale. Having opened his office door to petitioner, the principal was hardly in a position to argue that
he was the "unwilling recipient" of her views.
The First Amendment forbids abridgment of the "freedom
of speech." Neither the Amendment itself nor our decisions
indicate that this freedom is lost to the public employee who
arranges to communicate privately with his employer rather
immediate superiors or harmony among coworkers is presented here.
Appellants employment relationships with the Board and, to a somewhat
lesser extent, with the superintendent are not the kind of close working
relationships for which it can persuasively be claimed that personal loyalty
and confidence are necessary to their proper functioning." 391 U. S., at
569-570.
4 Although the First Amendment's protection of government employees
extends to private as well as public expression, striking the Pickering balance in each context may involve different considerations. When a teacher
speaks publicly, it is generally the content of his statements that must be
assessed to determine whether they "in any way either impeded the
teacher's proper performance of his daily duties in the classroom or...
interfered with the regular operation of the schools generally." Id., at
572-573. Private expression, however, may in some situations bring additional factors to the Pickering calculus. When a government employee
personally confronts his immediate superior, the employing agency's institutional efficiency may be threatened not only by the content of the
employee's message but also by the manner, time, and place in which it
is delivered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion of the Court

439 U. S.

than to spread his views before the public. We decline to
adopt such a view of the First Amendment.
While this case was pending on appeal to the Court of
Appeals, Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle, supra, was
decided. In that case this Court rejected the view that a
public employee must be reinstated whenever constitutionally
protected conduct plays a "substantial" part in the employer's
decision to terminate. Such a rule would require reinstatement of employees that the public employer would have dismissed even if the constitutionally protected conduct had not
occurred and, consequently, "could place an employee in a
better position as a result of the exercise of constitutionally
protected conduct than he would have occupied had he done
nothing." 429 U. S., at 285. Thus, the Court held that once
the employee has shown that his constitutionally protected
conduct played a "substantial" role in the employer's decision
not to rehire him, the employer is entitled to show 'by a
preponderance of the evidence that it would have reached the
same decision as to [the employee's] re-employment even in
the absence of the protected conduct." Id., at 287.
The Court of Appeals in the instant case rejected respondents' Mt. Healthy claim that the decision to terminate petitioner would have been made even if her encounters with the
principal had never occurred:
"The [trial] court did not make. an express finding as to
whether the same decision would have been made, but on
this record the [respondents] do not, and seriously cannot, argue that the same decision would have been made
without regard to the 'demands.' Appellants seem to
argue that the preponderance of the evidence shows that
the same decision would have been justified, but that is
not the same as proving that the same decision would
have been made ....
Therefore [respondents] failed
to mk~ke a successful 'same decision anyway' defense."
555 F. 2d, at 1315.

GIVHAN v. WESTERN LINE CONSOL. SCHOOL DIST.
410

417

STEVENS, J., concurring

Since this case was tried before Mt. Healthy was decided, it
is not surprising that respondents did not attempt to prove in
the District Court that the decision not to rehire petitioner
would have been made even absent consideration of her
"demands." Thus, the case came to the Court of Appeals
in very much the same posture as Mt. Healthy was presented
to this Court. And while the District Court found that petitioner's "criticism" was the "primary" reason for the School
District's failure to rehire her, it did not find that she would
have been rehired but for her criticism. Respondents' Mt.
Healthy claim called for a factual determination which could
not, on this record, be resolved by the Court of Appeals.'
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
vacated insofar as it relates to petitioner, and the case is
remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
concurring.
Because this Court's opinion in Mt. Healthy City Bd.
of Ed. v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274, had not been announced when
the District Court decided this case, it did not expressly find
that respondents would have rehired petitioner if she had not
engaged in constitutionally protected conduct. The District
Court did find, however, that petitioner's protected conduct
was the "primary" reason for respondents' decision.* The
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS,

We cannot agree with the Court of Appeals that the record in this
case does not admit of the argument that petitioner would have been terminated regardless of her "demands." Even absent consideration of petitioner's private encounters with the principal, a decision to terminate
based on the reasons detailed at nn. 1 and 2, supra, would hardly strike us
as surprising. Additionally, in his letter to petitioner setting forth the
reasons for her termination, District Superintendent Morris makes no
mention of petitioner's "demands" and "criticism." See n. 1, supra.
*App. to Pet. for Cert. 35a. See also id., at 36a, where the District
Court stated that petitioner's protected activity was "almost entirely"
responsible for her termination.

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
STrENS,

J., concurring

439 U. S.

Court of Appeals regarded that finding as foreclosing respondents' Mt. Healthy claim. In essence, the Court of
Appeals concluded that the District Court would have made
an appropriate finding on the issue if it had had access to our
Mt. Healthy opinion.
My understanding of the District Court's finding is the
same as the Court of Appeals'. Nevertheless, I agree that the
District Court should have the opportunity to decide whether
there is any need for further proceedings on the issue. If
that court regards the present record as adequate to enable it
to supplement its original findings without taking additional
evidence, it is free to do so. On that understanding, I join
the Court's opinion.

