OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

TRUONG DINH HUNG v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL
No. A-73.

Decided August 4, 1978

Application of Vietnamese citizen for bail, pending his appeal to the Court
of Appeals from his conviction for espionage and related offenses, is
granted where there was insufficient basis for the District Court to
revoke bail on the ground of a risk that applicant would flee from the
country.

MR.JUSTICE BRENNAN.
This is an application I for bail pending appeal to the Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit from the conviction of applicant on May 19, 1978, following a jury trial in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, of
conspiracy to commit espionage (Count 1); conspiracy to
violate laws prohibiting the unlawful conversion of Government property and the communication of classified information to a foreign agent (Count 2) ; espionage (Count 3) ; theft
of Government property (Count 5); acting as a foreign agent
without registration (Count 6); and unlawful transmission of
defense information (Count 7).2 Applicant was sentenced
to 15 years' imprisonment on Counts 1 and 3, 2 years' imprisonment on Count 2, and 5 years' imprisonment on Counts
5, 6, and 7, all sentences to be served concurrently.
The District Court admitted applicant to bail prior to trial
in the amount of $250,000, but immediately after applicant's conviction revoked the bail pursuant to 18 U. S. C.
§ 3148, ' stating three reasons: (1) the substantial evidence
'This application was originally presented to MR. CHIEF JUsTICE
BURGER
as Circuit Justice. In his absence it was referred to me.
2
See 18 U. S. C. §§ 371, 641, 793 (e), 794 (a) and (c), 951; 50 U. S. C.
§§ 783 (b) and (c) (1970 ed.).
3The statute states in the pertinent part:
"A person . . .who has been convicted of an offense and . . . has filed
an appeal . . .shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of [18

TRUONG DINH HUNG v. UNITED STATES
1326

-1327

Opinion in Chambers

of guilt; (2) the seriousness of the crimes and the length
of the potential sentences; ' and (3) the risk of flight, given
the severity of the potential sentences and the fact that
applicant was not an American citizen. The Court of Appeals in an unreported opinion sustained the revocation,
stating:
"The defendant is a Vietnamese citizen. The charge
upon which he was convicted involved the receipt and
transmission of classified information to the Vietnamese
Ambassador in Paris. The defendant has not established
a permanent residence in this country, and, should he
flee to Vietnam, the United States would have no means
to procure his return for the imposition of sentence or for
sentence service.
"Under the circumstances, we find no abuse of discretion of the district judge in denying the defendant bail
pending appeal."
See Application for Release Upon Reasonable Bail, Exhibit A,
p. 2.
Applicant's appeal presents, inter atia, an important question heretofore specifically reserved by this Court in United
States v. United States District Court, 407 U. S. 297 (1972),
namely, "the scope of the President's surveillance power with
respect to the activities of foreign powers, within or without
this country." Id., at 308. There is a difference of view
U. S. C. § 3146] unless the court or judge has reason to believe that no
one or more conditions of release will reasonably assure that the person
If such a risk of flight... is believed to exist, or if it
will not flee ....
appears that an appeal is frivolous or taken for delay, the person may be

ordered detained."
4 At the time applicant faced the possibility of two life sentences as well

as additional terms of imprisonment totaling 35 years. After the Court
of Appeals had affirmed the District Court's revocation of bail, applicant

was sentenced to a maximum of only 15 years. He has not, however,
brought this fact to the attention of either the District Court or the Court
of Appeals by way of a motion for reconsideration of bail revocation.

1328

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

among the Courts of Appeals on this question. Compare
Zweibon v. Mitchell, 170 U. S. App. D. C. 1, 58, 516 F. 2d
594, 651 (1975) (en banc), with United States v. Butenko,
494 F. 2d 593, 605 (CA3 1974) (en banc). See also Katz v.
United States, 389 U. S. 347, 359 (1967) (Douglas, J., concurring); id., at 362 (WHITE, J., concurring). The question
arises in this case because of applicant's challenge to the
admission of evidence obtained from a wiretap placed in applicant's apartment over a period of approximately three
months without prior judicial warrant. As phrased in the
application: "The court of appeals . . . will be asked to rule
upon the government's claim of power to conduct lengthy
warrantless surveillance of domestic premises, in light not
only of the fourth amendment but of the express authorization of 18 U. S. C. § 2516 (1) (a) for the use of warrants in
espionage cases."
The uncertainty of the ultimate answer to this important
constitutional question is not of itself, however, sufficient
reason to continue applicant's bail. Section 3148 expressly
authorizes the detention of a convicted person pending appeal
when "risk of flight . . . is believed to exist." It was the
risk "[u]nder the circumstances" upon which the Court of
Appeals rested its conclusion that "we find no abuse of discretion of the district judge in denying the defendant bail
pending appeal." This judgment is entitled to "great deference." Harrisv. United States, 404 U. S. 1232 (1971) (Douglas, J., in chambers). Nevertheless, "where the reasons for
the action below clearly appear, a Circuit Justice has a nondelegable responsibility to make an independent determination of the merits of the application." Reynolds v. United
States, 80 S. Ct. 30, 32, 4 L. Ed. 2d 46, 48 (1959) (Douglas, J.,
in chambers). See Mecom v. United States, 434 U. S. 1340,
1341 (1977) (POWELL, J., in chambers). The question for
my "independent determination" is thus whether the evidence
justified the courts below in reasonably believing that there

TRUONG DINH HUNG v. UNITED STATES
1326

1329

Opinion in Chambers

is a risk of applicant's flight. In making that determination,
I am mindful that "[t]he command of the Eighth Amendment that '[e]xcessive bail shall not be required . . .' at the
very least obligates judges passing upon the right to bail to
deny such relief only for the strongest of reasons." Sellers v.
United States, 89 S. Ct. 36, 38, 21 L. Ed. 2d 64, 66 (1968)
(Black, J., in chambers).
Given this constitutional dimension, I have concluded that
the reasons relied upon by the courts below do not constitute
sufficient "reason to believe that no one or more conditions of
release will reasonably assure" that applicant will not flee.
The evidence referred to by the Court of Appeals is that applicant maintained contact with the Vietnamese Ambassador in
Paris; that he has not established a permanent residence in
this country; and that, should applicant flee to Vietnam, the
United States would have no means to procure his return.'
But if these considerations suggest opportunities for flight,
they hardly establish any inclination on the part of applicant
to flee. And other evidence supports the inference that he is
not so inclined. Applicant faithfully complied with the terms
of his pretrial bail and affirmed at sentencing his faith in his
eventual vindication and his intention not to flee if released on
bail. He has resided continuously in this country since 1965,
and has extensive ties in the community. He has produced
numerous affidavits attesting to his character and to his
reliability as a bail risk.' He has maintained a close relationship with his sister, a permanent resident of the United States
since 1969. The equity in his sister's Los Angeles home constitutes a substantial measure of the security for applicant's
bail. In addition, applicant's reply to the memorandum for
5

The Solicitor General, in his memorandum in opposition, notes in addition that applicant's parents and other close relatives still reside in Vietnam, and that applicant's lack of a passport or other travel documents
would present no great obstacle to his flight.
6Applicant has filed 11 such affidavits; affiats include Ramsey Clark,
Noam Chomsky, Richard Falk, and George Wald.

1330

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

the United States in opposition informs us that the "American
Friends Service Committee and the National Council of
Churches have come forward with large sums which are now
in the registry of the court in Alexandria."
I conclude, therefore, that there was insufficient basis for
revocation of applicant's bail following his conviction, and
that his bail should be continued at $250,000 pending decision
of his appeal by the Court of Appeals. The application is
therefore remanded to the District Court for the determination of further appropriate conditions of release, and for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

