NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
Opinion in Chambers

NEW YORK TIMES CO. ET AL. V. JASCALEVICH
ON REAPPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-111. Decided August 4, 1978
Reapplication for stay of New Jersey Supreme Court's order declining to
stay civil contempt penalties imposed by the New Jersey Superior Court,
pending the fling of a petition for certiorari, is denied. The imposition
of contempt penalties in order to coerce applicants, a newspaper and
one of its reporters, to submit for in camera inspection materials sought
by the defendant in an ongoing murder trial, without first making an
independent, threshold determination of materiality, relevance, and necessity, likely inhibits the exercise of First Amendment rights and raises
a substantial constitutional question. However, it does not appear that
four Justices of this Court would vote to grant certiorari at this time.

MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, Circuit Justice.

The New York Times and one of its reporters, Myron
Farber, have reapplied to me for a stay of an order issued
by the Supreme Court of New Jersey on July 25, 1978, after
MR. JUSTICE WHITE denied their initial application on
August 1, 1978. Ante, p. 1317.
At issue is the New Jersey Supreme Court's denial of a
motion for a stay of civil contempt penalties imposed by the
Superior Court of Bergen County in order to coerce the applicants to submit for in camera inspection materials sought by
the defendant in a murder trial now in progress. The New
Jersey Supreme Court also denied the applicants' motion for
direct certification of their appeals from the contempt orders
entered by the Superior Court.
The applicants have requested a stay pending the filing
and determination of their petition for certiorari, which would
raise the issue
"whether the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the
Constitution of the United States permit a State to incarcerate and fine a newsperson or newspaper to force them

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

to disclose to a court, in camera, all materials, including
confidential sources and unpublished information, called
for by a subpoena duces tecum, prior to making determinations with respect to the facial invalidity of the
subpoenas as well as claims of First Amendment and
statutory shield law privileges, when such issues are raised
in a motion to quash the subpoena duces tecum."
Alternatively, they seek a stay pending review of those issues
by the New Jersey appellate courts. This application was
denied by MR. JUSTICE WiRITE and then referred to me.
Although a single Justice would ordinarily refer a reapplication
for a stay to the full Conference of this Court, as we are now
in recess and widely scattered, such a referral is not immediately practicable.
I
A preliminary question is whether a Justice of this Court
has jurisdiction to grant a stay under the circumstances of this
case. Under 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (f), the execution and enforcement of a judgment or decree may be stayed by a Member of
this Court in "any case in which the final judgment or decree
of any court is subject to review by the Supreme Court on
writ of certiorari." The application of that provision, in turn,
depends upon 28 U. S. C. § 1257, which provides that this
Court has jurisdiction to review "[f]inal judgments or decrees
rendered by the highest court of a State in which a decision
could be had."
The proceedings relevant here began with an order of the
Superior Court on June 30, 1978, denying the applicants'
motion to quash the subpoena and directing them to produce
the subpoenaed materials. The Superior Court declined to
consider any constitutional or statutory claims of privilege
until the applicants submitted the materials for in camera
review. The applicants sought review of the Superior Court's
order before the Appellate Division and the New Jersey
Supreme Court, on the grounds they intend to raise in their

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1331

Opinion in Chambers

petition for certiorari. Both courts denied leave to appeal
and declined to stay the order to produce. With the case in
that posture, both MR. JUSITCE WHIaT and I denied the applicants' request for a stay.
Since the initial application for a stay, a different judge of
the Superior Court on July 24 found the applicants guilty of
both criminal and civil contempt for refusing to comply with
the June 30 order to produce the subpoenaed materials.
Without considering the issues that I previously had expected
would be addressed in a contempt proceeding, see ante, at
1305-1306, the Superior Court held that the applicants could
not raise their constitutional or statutory challenges to the validity of the June 30 order to produce. As a coercive sanction for the civil contempt, the court sentenced Farber to
jail and fined the New York Times $5,000 per day until the
applicants complied with the order to produce. On the criminal contempt charges, Farber received a sentence of six months
in jail and the New York Times was assessed a fine of $100,000.
The applicants appealed both the criminal and civil sanctions, and the Appellate Division agreed to accelerate those
appeals to the extent possible. The Appellate Division decided to stay the criminal penalties against the applicants, but
not the coercive civil penalties, which mandate immediate
imprisonment of Farber. On July 25, the New Jersey Supreme Court also declined to stay the coercive penalties and
refused to certify the applicants' appeals for direct consideration by that court. At present, the Appellate Division still
has not set a date for hearing the applicants' appeals.
In most cases where an appeal is still pending in the state
courts, Members of this Court would not have jurisdiction to
issue a stay under 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (f). See United
States v. Nixon, 418 U. S. 683, 690-691 (1974). However,
this Court has shown a special solicitude for applicants who
seek stays of actions threatening a significant impairment of
First Amendment interests. The inability of an applicant to

OCTOBER TERM, 1978

1334

Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

obtain timely substantive review by state courts of a serious
First Amendment issue, prior to incurring substantial coercive
penalties, may justify a determination that the applicant has
satisfied the jurisdictional requirements of 28 U. S. C. § 2101
(f). Even though this application does not involve a direct

prior restraint, MR. JUSTICE BLACKMTN'S analysis in Nebraska
Press Assn. v. Stuart, 423 U. S. 1327 (1975) (in chambers), is
applicable here:
"When a reasonable time in which to review the restraint
has passed, as here, we may properly regard the state
court as having finally decided that the restraint should
remain in effect during the period of delay. I therefore
conclude that I have jurisdiction to act upon that statecourt decision." Id., at 1330.
As in Nebraska Press, the delay by the appellate courts has
left standing a serious intrusion on constitutionally protected

rights. MR. JusTicE WHITE credited these same First Amendment considerations when he determined to reach the merits
of the present applicants' request for a stay. Ante, p. 1317.
II

Although I agree with MR. JUSTICE WHITE's conclusion that
he had the power to issue a stay at least until a final determination of the jurisdictional issue, I must differ with his conclusion on the merits of the constitutional questions raised by
the applicants. As I observed in my previous opinion in this
case:

"There are, of course, important and unresolved questions
regarding the obligation of a newsperson to divulge confidential files and other material sought by the prosecution or defense in connection with criminal proceedings.
It may well be, moreover, that forced disclosure of these
materials, even to a judge for in camera inspection, will
have a deleterious effect on the ability of the news media.

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1331

Opinion in Chambers

effectively to gather information in the public interest,
as is alleged by applicants." Ante, at 1305.
Many potential criminal informants, for example, might well
refuse to provide information to a reporter if they knew that
a judge could examine the reporter's notes upon the request
of a defendant.
Given the likelihood that forced disclosure even for in
camera review will inhibit the reporter's and newspaper's exercise of First Amendment rights, I believe that some threshold
showing of materiality, relevance, and necessity should be
required. Cf. United States v. Nixon, supra. See generally
Carey v. Hume, 160 U. S. App. D. C. 365, 492 F. 2d 631, cert.
dismissed, 417 U. S. 938 (1974); Baker v. F & F Investment,
470 F. 2d 778 (CA2 1972), cert. denied, 411 U. S.966 (1973);
Democratic National Committee v. McCord, 356 F. Supp.
1394 (DC 1973). Examination of the record submitted with
this application discloses that the Superior Court did not
make any independent determinations of materiality, relevance, or necessity prior to ordering the applicants to submit
the subpoenaed materials for in camera review.
Initially defense counsel submitted ex parte to the Superior Court Judge an affidavit averring the need for "notes,
memoranda, reports, statements, tape recordings and other
written memorializations" of Farber's interviews of witnesses.
The affidavit provided only one example of a statement given
to Farber by a potential witness. With respect to the other
material requested, the affidavit included only a general assertion of necessity, but afforded no factual basis for the judge to
determine whether any of the documents other than the
statement mentioned above were material, relevant, or necessary for the defense. It cannot be supposed that the Superior Court Judge knew from conducting the trial that the
material requested met those criteria, because counsel
failed to specify the materials that came within the terms of
his extremely broad request. Conclusory assertions by de-

1336

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

fense counsel are insufficient to justify a subpoena of the
breadth of the one involved here.
Moreover, an ex parte determination of materiality, relevance, and necessity provides little assurance that First
Amendment interests will not be infringed unnecessarily.
Without affording counsel for the applicants an opportunity
to respond and narrow the scope of the subpoena, the Superior
Court issued a certificate under the Uniform Act to Secure the
Attendance of Witnesses from Without a State in Criminal
Proceedings, N. J. Stat. Ann. §§ 2A:81-18 to 2A:81-23 (West
1976), for all documents in the possession of the applicants
that
"contain statements, pictures, memoranda, recordings and
notes of interviews of witnesses for the defense and prosecution in the above proceeding as well as information
delivered to the Bergen County Prosecutor's Office, and
contractual information relating to the above."
Similarly, the second certificate issued by the Superior Court
reveals no further consideration of materiality, relevance, and
necessity. Although the certificate did add a list of a few of
the witnesses who appeared at the trial, that listing at best
argued in favor of a subpoena confined to documents regarding those particular witnesses.
Just as the Superior Court Judge did not make any independent determinations of materiality, relevance, and necessity before issuing the certificates to obtain the subpoenas,
neither did he make those determinations before requiring in
camera inspection. Even after the criminal and civil contempt proceedings, the applicants have been unable to obtain
a state-court decision, except perhaps by implication from the
Superior Court's order of June 30, on the issue of whether a
judge must make a threshold determination of materiality,
relevance, and necessity before requiring them to submit the
materials for in camera inspection.

NEW YORK TIMES CO. v. JASCALEVICH
1331

1337

Opinion in Chambers

III
Were I deciding this issue on the merits, I would grant a
stay pending the timely filing of a petition for certiorari or
at least pending the Appellate Division's consideration of the
important constitutional and statutory issues raised by the
applicants. But the well-established criteria for granting a
stay are that the applicants must show "a balance of hardships in their favor" and that the issue is so substantial that
four Justices of this Court would likely vote to grant a writ of
certiorari. Beame v. Friends of the Earth, 434 U. S. 1310,
1312-1314 (1977) (MARsHALL, J., in chambers). The applicants here bear an especially heavy burden, for a single Justice will seldom grant an order that has been denied by
another Justice. See Levy v. Parker, 396 U. S. 1204, 1205
(1969) (Douglas, J., in chambers).
After reviewing the applicable decisions of this Court, I
cannot conclude in good faith that at least four Justices would
vote to grant a writ of certiorari with the case in its present
posture. See United States v. Nixon, 418 U. S. 683 (1974);
Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S. 665 (1972). Consequently, I
am compelled to deny this application for a stay.

