REPRODUCTIVE SERVICES, INC. v. WALKER

1307

Opinion in Chambers

REPRODUCTIVE SERVICES, INC. v. WALKER,
DISTRICT JUDGE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-1091.

Decided July 17, 1978

Application to stay Texas Supreme Court's order denying applicant
medical clinic operator's motion for a writ of mandamus directed to
respondent trial judge to overturn his order that applicant produce
certain medical records in a medical malpractice suit against it is denied
on the condition that the parties agree to a protective order ensuring the
privacy of patients at applicant's clinics. It does not appear at this
time that there is any irreparable injury to any patient's privacy interests justifying a stay.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN.

I have before me an application I to stay an order of the
Supreme Court of Texas, which denied applicant's motion for
a writ of mandamus directed to respondent. The questions at
issue here arise in a suit brought by Claudia E. Lott against
applicant, which in essence charged applicant with medical
malpractice in performing an abortion on Mrs. Lott. The
complaint further charged applicant with violating the Texas
Deceptive Trade Practices-Consumer Protection Act, Texas
Bus. & Com. Code Ann. ยง 17.41 et seq. (Supp. 1977), in that
applicant misrepresented the quality of care it was prepared
to provide and failed to disclose material information regarding the risks involved in procedures used at applicant's
abortion clinics. The State of Texas was allowed to intervene
in this action pursuant to the Deceptive Practices Act. Mrs.
Lott and the State of Texas are the true parties in interest here.
Mrs. Lott caused a subpoena duces tecum to be issued
against applicant. This subpoena sought the medical records
'This application was originally presented to MR. JUSTICE POWELL as
Circuit Justice and, in his absence, was referred to Mn. JUSTWcE REHNQUiST, who denied the application.

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

of five named patients at applicant's clinics and also sought the
medical records of any other patient who had any major or
serious complications arising from an abortion at applicant's
clinics or who had received certain medications. Applicant
sought to quash this subpoena on the ground of invasion of
its patients' privacy. This motion was granted in part by
the respondent trial judge, who ruled that the records must
be turned over, but that patients' names could be deleted.
Applicant sought mandamus in the Supreme Court of Texas
to overturn this order. Subsequently counsel for applicant,
Mrs. Lott, and the State of Texas entered into a consent order
and temporary injunction in which applicant agreed that on
determination of applicant's petition for mandamus the State
could take discovery "on all names of all patients of [applicant's] Clinics throughout the State and all records on the
nature of the conditions shown in those records."
The question sought to be raised by applicant-whether the
names of abortion patients can be obtained by discovery for
use in a civil suit against a person or clinic performing abortions where, as here, the parties have not agreed to a protective
order to ensure the privacy of those patients-is a serious one.
If this question were in fact presented by this case, I am of the
view that four Members of this Court would vote to grant
certiorari to hear it.2 However, this issue is not presented
here. First, the order of the trial court challenged by applicant's petition for mandamus did in fact provide that the
names of applicant's patients could be deleted. Second, the
State of Texas has represented in its response in this Court
that it is prepared to enter into a protective order which will
ensure the privacy of all patients at applicant's clinics. In
light of the representations of the State of Texas, there is no
irreparable injury to any patient's privacy interests which
2

Applicant has styled its application as one for a stay pending petition

for mandamus, but the appropriate avenue of relief would be by certiorari,
and I so read the papers.

REPRODUCTIVE SERVICES, INC. v. WALKER
1307

1309

Opinion in Chambers

would justify a stay of the order of the Supreme Court of
Texas.
Therefore, on express condition that the parties agree to a
protective order ensuring the privacy of patients at applicant's
clinics, the stay I entered on July 10, 1978, in these proceedings
is hereby dissolved. If such a protective order is not entered,
applicant may resubmit a further stay application.

