ALEXIS I.

DU

PONT SCHOOL DIST. v. EVANS

1375

Opinion in Chambers

ALEXIS I.

DU

PONT SCHOOL DISTRICT

ET AL. V.

EVANS ET AL.
ON REAPPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-188. Decided September 8, 1978
Reapplication to stay Court of Appeals' judgment and mandate affirming District Court's school desegregation order (see ante, p. 1360) is
denied. It appears unlikely that four Justices of this Court would vote
to grant certiorari at this time to consider the liability issues decided
below, and, although four Justices might grant certiorari to consider
the scope of the District Court's authority to grant such a drastic
remedy as it did, the case is not presently at the certiorari stage,
and a stay would be too disruptive since school is to begin in three days.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST.

Applicants, seven defendant suburban school districts in the
area of Wilmington, Delaware, have requested that I stay
execution of the judgment and mandate of the Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit in this case pending consideration by this Court of their petition for certiorari.*
MR. JusTICE BRENNAN denied the application for a stay one
week ago, on September 1, 1978, Buchanan v. Evans, ante,
p. 1360. Although earlier this summer I granted a stay in
Columbus Board of Education v. Penick, ante, p. 1348, after
it had been denied by MR. JUSTICE STEWART, I have decided to
deny this application. Since my reasons are somewhat different from those expressed by MR. JuSTicE BRENNAN in his
opinion, I shall state them here.
*The Delaware State Board of Education joined in the application to MR.
JusTiCE BRENNAN, but has now advised the Clerk's Office that because of

the shortness of time it does not join in the reapplication to me. It has
advised the Clerk, however, that it does intend to petition for certiorari for
review of the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Intervenor, Alfred I. du Pont School District, also does not join in this
reapplication.

1376

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

As MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN noted, the District Court earlier
in this litigation found interdistrict violations on the part of
several of the independent school districts located in New
Castle County. It also declared unconstitutional a Delaware
statute granting to the State Board of Education the authority
to reorganize school districts within the State, but exempting
from the operation of the statute the Wilmington School
District. The judgment of the District Court was summarily
affirmed without an opinion by this Court over three dissents.
Buchanan v. Evans, 423 U. S. 963 (1975). For the reasons
expressed in my dissent in that case, I cannot agree with my
Brother BRENNAN that the unexplicated summary affirmance
renders the District Court's finding that "this dual school system has been perpetuated through constitutional violations of
an interdistrict nature" the law of the case. Buchanan v.
Evans, ante, at 1363 (BRENNAN, J., in chambers).
The case later came to this Court on a petition for certiorari
from a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
that had concluded. that some consolidation of school districts
would be necessary in order to formulate an appropriate decree.
Certiorari was denied by this Court, Delaware Board of Education v. Evans, 434 U. S. 880 (1977), with three Justices
voting to grant certiorari, and vacate and remand the case for
reconsideration in light of this Court's opinion in Dayton
Board of Educationv. Brinkman, 433 U. S. 406 (1977). Were
I alone deciding these issues on the merits, I would probably
grant a stay pending the timely filing of a petition for certiorari.
Cf. New York Times Co. v. Jascalevich, ante, at 1337 (MARSHALL,

J., in chambers).

But as MR.

JUS TCE MARsHALL

went

on to point out in his in-chambers opinion, the Circuit Justice
must be reasonably satisfied that four Justices would vote to
grant certiorari in the case, and while I do not view any of the
prior actions of this Court as dispositive of the merits of the
issues decided by the District Court or the Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit, neither do I feel that I can in good con-

ALEXIS I.
1375

DU

PONT SCHOOL DIST. v. EVANS
Opinion in Chambers

science say that four Justices of this Court would vote to grant
certiorari to consider them at this time.
Present in the instant application, however, is an elaborate,
specific plan devised by the District Court to remedy the
violations which it had previously found. That remedy consists in part of a court-ordered reorganization and consolidation
of 11 independent school districts in northern New Castle
County. What had been 11 independent governing boards is
for the present 1 interim board having supervisory authority
over all 11 districts. The order requires the Delaware State
Board of Education to appoint the five-person governing
board. Included within the interim board's authority is the
assignment of students, the levying of necessary taxes, the
hiring of faculty, and the choice of curriculum.
The second aspect of the remedy is a system of pupil assignment which the District Court ordered the Board to adopt in
the judgment which the Court of Appeals affirmed in the case
now before me. The modus operandi of that plan is that all
students from the two predominantly black school districts
are to be reassigned to the nine predominantly white districts
for nine years of their elementary and secondary education,
and all students in the predominantly white districts are to be
reassigned to the predominantly black districts for three consecutive years. In affirming this judgment of the District
Court, the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit relied in
part on this quotation from Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg
Board of Education,402 U. S. 1, 15-16 (1971):
"[A] school desegregation case does not differ fundamentally from other cases involving the framing of equitable
remedies to repair the denial of a constitutional right."
However, the language in Swann immediately following the
language quoted by the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
states:
"The task is to correct, by a balancing of the individual

1378

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

and collective interests, the condition that offends the
Constitution.
"In seeking to define even in broad and general terms
how far this remedial power extends it is important to
remember that judicial powers may be exercised only on
the basis of a constitutional violation. Remedial judicial
authority does not put judges automatically in the shoes
of school authorities whose powers are plenary. Judicial
authority enters only when local authority defaults."
Id., at 16.
In the succeeding cases of Milliken v. Bradley, 418 U. S.
717 (1974), Hills v. Gautreaux, 425 U. S. 284 (1976), and
Dayton Board of Education v. Brinkman, supra, this Court
has with increasing emphasis insisted that the scope of the
District Court's authority to fashion a remedy is limited by
the constitutional wrong that is to be righted. I believe that
before a remedy of this drastic a nature is finally imposed, not
merely on 1 school board but on 11 previously independent
school boards, four Justices of this Court would wish to grant
certiorari and consider that question on its merits. No case
from this Court has ever sanctioned a remedy of this kind, or
any remedy remotely like it. The only case in which a District
Court has become this deeply involved in the day-to-day
management of school affairs is Morgan v. Kerrigan, 530 F. 2d
401 (CA1 1976), in which this Court denied certiorari, 426
U. S. 935 (1976). In that case, however, the District Court
was dealing with a single school district, and it does not appear
that the community superintendents appointed to oversee particular schools by the District Court's order had any authority
to levy taxes. If the Court meant what it said in Dayton,
that "local autonomy of school districts is a vital national
tradition," 433 U. S., at 410, I think it would give plenary
consideration to a case where the District Court has treated a
series of independent school districts which were found to have

ALEXIS I.
1375

DU

PONT SCHOOL DIST. v. EVANS
Opinion in Chambers

committed constitutional violations much as if they were a
railroad in reorganization.
This case, however, is not presently at the certiorari stage,
and no petition for certiorari has been filed. The applicants
seek only a partial stay of the District Court's order, conceding that the pressures of time would render inappropriate a
complete stay in view of the fact that the schools in question
are scheduled to open Monday, September 11.
This case was argued to the Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit on May 10, 1978, and that court handed down its
opinion on July 24. No application for stay of the mandate
of the Court of Appeals was presented to MR. JUSTICE BR NNAN
until August 18. He denied the application on September 1,
and it was presented to me late in the day on Tuesday,
September 5. In a case of this magnitude, with a school
opening date of September 11 rapidly approaching, it could
be said that applicants might have acted more quickly than
But
they did in seeking a stay from MR. JusrECE BRENNAW.
stays
do
be that as it may, equitable considerations involving
not necessarily turn on notions of laches. I conclude that in
view of all the considerations which must be weighed in a
matter such as this, the application for stay should be denied.
The consolidated school system has been subject to the desegregation order, without interruption, since January 1978. It
would simply be too disruptive to upset established expectations now. "This disposition, of course, does not reflect any
view on the merits of the issues presented." Dayton Board
of Education v. Brinkman, ante, at 1357 (STEwART, J., in

chambers).

