BRENNAN v. UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE

1345

Opinion in Chambers

BRENNAN

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-152.

Decided August 11, 1978

Application for stay, pending the filing and disposition of a petition for
certiorari, of Court of Appeals' judgment affirming an injunction against
further operation of applicants' hand delivery mail service in violation
of the Private Express Statutes is denied, where it appears unlikely that
four Justices of this Court would vote to grant certiorari.
MR. JUSTICE MARSBHALL,

Circuit Justice.

Patricia H. Brennan and J. Paul Brennan have applied to
me for a stay of the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit pending the filing and disposition by this Court
of their petition for a writ of certiorari. Applicants operate a
hand delivery mail service in Rochester, N. Y. The United
States Postal Service (USPS) brought suit in the Western
District of New York to enjoin operation of this service on
the ground that the Private Express Statutes, 39 U. S. C.
§§ 601-606 and 18 U. S. C. §§ 1693-1699, proscribe private carriage and delivery of "letters and packets." Applicants concede that the Private Express Statutes do indeed prohibit their
activities, but they challenge the prohibition principally on
the basis that the Constitution does not confer upon Congress
exclusive power to operate a postal system.' The District
Court rejected the challenge and permanently enjoined further violations. The Court of Appeals affirmed, denied
motions for rehearing and rehearing en banc, and refused to
' They contend also that the legislation violates the Tenth Amendment
because it denies to the States and to the people a concurrent power reserved
to them, that Congress improperly delegated to the USPS the power
to define "letters and packets," and that the extension of the postal
monopoly only to letter mail arbitrarily discriminates against their busin(s. Applicants intend to pursue these challenges in their petition for
certiorari, but do not elaborate on them here.

1346

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

stay its judgment pending disposition of a petition for a writ
of certiorari. Applicants invoke the jurisdiction of this Court
under 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (f).
The argument applicants press here is that Congress exceeded its powers by granting the USPS a monopoly over the
conveyance of letter mail. Article I, § 8, cl. 7, of the Constitution provides that "Congress shall have Power . . . To
establish Post Offices and post Roads." Nothing in this language or in any other provision of the Constitution, applicants submit, implies that the postal power is invested
exclusively in the Legislative Branch. Although Congress has
authority under Art. I, § 8, el. 18, to make such laws as are
"necessary and proper" for carrying out its delegated functions, applicants argue that this provision does not permit it
to convert a nonexclusive power into an exclusive one.
The well-established criteria for granting a stay are "that
the applicants must show 'a balance of hardships in their
favor' and that the issue is so substantial that four Justices
of this Court would likely vote to grant a writ of certiorari."
New York Times Co. v. Jascalevich,ante, at 1337. I cannot
conceive that four Justices would agree to review the Court of
Appeals' ruling on the argument advanced here. That argument rests on the tenuous premise that the Framers intended
to create categories of exclusive and nonexclusive powers so
inviolable that a subsequent Congress could not determine
that a Government monopoly over letter mail was "necessary
and proper" to prevent private carriers from securing all of
the profitable postal routes and relegating to the USPS the
unprofitable ones. Applicants have presented no convincing
evidence of such an intent, and such a miserly construction of
congressional power transgresses principles of constitutional
adjudication settled since McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316 (1819). As Mr. Chief Justice Marshall stated there, "the
sound construction of the constitution must allow to the
national legislature that discretion, with respect to the means

BRENNAN v. UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
1345

1347

Opinon in Chambers

by which the powers it confers are to be carried into execution,
which will enable that body to perform the high duties assigned
to it, in the manner most beneficial to the people." Id., at 421.
Moreover, long historical practice counsels against reviewing this novel constitutional claim. The Private Express
Statutes have existed in one form or another since passed by
the First Congress in 1792,2 and their constitutionality has
never been successfully challenged. While such longevity does
not ensure that a statute is constitutional, it is certainly probative here of whether four Justices would vote to hear the
merits of applicants' case. Cf. Myers v. United S5tates, 272
U. S. 52, 175 (1926). This Court's recent refusal to review
the Tenth Circuit's decision upholding the Private Express
Statutes, United States v. Black, 569 F. 2d 1111, cert. denied,
435 U. S. 944 (1978), and the absence of any conflict among
the Circuits on this point also indicate that applicants have
not satisfied the criteria for the granting of a stay.
Accordingly, the application is denied.

2

Indeed, the 1792 Act continued in effect a statute of the Continental
Congress that had created a postal monopoly. Act of Feb. 20, 1792, 1
Stat. 232, 236, adopting Act of Oct. 18, 1782, 23 J. Cont. Cong. 672-673.

