1392

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

WARM SPRINGS DAM TASK FORCE

439 U. S.

ET AL.

v. GRIBBLE

ET AL.
APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-357. Decided October 20, 1978
Application to stay, pending Court of Appeals' disposition of appeal, District Court's order denying a permanent injunction to halt further construction of the Warm Springs Dam, as against the contention that the
environmental impact statement filed in connection with the Dam did
not comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, is
denied.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants request that I stay an order of the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California
pending disposition of their appeal therefrom by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The District
Court's order denied applicants' request for a permanent injunction to halt further construction in connection with the
Warm Springs Dam-Lake Sonoma project on Dry and Warm
Springs Creeks in Sonoma County, Cal. (Dam). Applicants
also ask that pending disposition of their appeal I enjoin all
further construction activity at the site, except work for the
purpose of protecting the soil from effects of weathering and
erosion.
The Dam will be an earthen-filled dam, holding back a
reservoir of water, across Dry Creek, a major tributary of the
Russian River in Sonoma County. It is a multipurpose project designed to provide flood control, water supply, and recreation. The Dam was first authorized in the Flood Control Act
of 1962, Pub. L. 87-874, 76 Stat. 1173, 1192, and was under
construction when the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969, 42 U. S. C. ยง 4321 et seq. (NEPA), became law. An
environmental impact statement was filed prior to the award
of a contract for a major segment of the Dam and it is the
MR.

JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

WARM SPRINGS DAM TASK FORCE v. GRIBBLE
1392

1393

Opinion in Chambers

adequacy of that statement under NEPA which has been the
focus of this litigation. When built, the Dam will sit atop
the Dry Creek earthquake fault. A second fault is about
1 miles away and the San Andreas fault is 18 miles distant.
Applicants brought an action in the District Court on
March 22, 1974, seeking a preliminary injunction to stay further construction activity with respect to the Dam. During
14 days of hearings on the motion for a preliminary injunction,
applicants raised questions about the integrity of the Dam
should an earthquake occur and alleged poisoning of the water
in the reservoir behind the Dam. On May 23, 1974, the District Court found that the environmental impact statement
fully complied with NEPA and denied applicants' motion for
the injunction. Thereafter, the Ninth Circuit denied applicants' motion for an injunction pending appeal. On June 17,
1974, Mr. Justice Douglas issued an order staying further disturbance of the soil in connection with the Dam, other than
for research, investigation, planning, and design activity, pending decision of their appeal by the Court of Appeals. Warm
Sprin s Dam Ta.sk Force v. Gribble, 417 U. S. 1301.
On August 18, 1975, the Court of Appeals remanded the
case to the District Court to permit it to consider further the
adequacy of the environmental impact statement in the areas
of seismicity and purity of water in the proposed reservoir.
The Court of Appeals continued the existing stay in effect
until further action by the District Court. Although not
ordered by the court, the Army Corps of Engineers prepared
and widely circulated a supplement to the environmental impact statement covering the archaeological aspects of the Dam
and the seismicity and water purity problems. After holding
three days of hearings, the District Court concluded that all
segments of the environmental impact statement fully complied with NEPA and denied applicants' motion for a permanent injunction.
On November 23, 1977, the Court of Appeals expedited

1394

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

439 U. S.

applicants' appeal of the District Court's order but denied
applicants' request for interim injunctive relief in an opinion
in which it concluded that applicants had not shown that they
would suffer "significant harm" during the pendency of the
expedited appeal. Oral argument on the appeal was heard
on March 13, 1978. When decision of the appeal was not
forthcoming, applicants renewed their request for a stay on
May 8, 1978. A hearing on the motion was held on May 11,
1978, and on May 30, the Court of Appeals again denied applicants' request for interim relief. That same day, the Corps
signed a major construction contract for the Dam.
On October 4, 1978, the Corps opened bids on a new contract for the construction of a proposed fish hatchery for the
Dam. The Corps intends to let the contract on October 20,
1978. This development prompted applicants to make the
instant request for a stay to me. They claim that this work
will entail extensive expenditures and will have a direct
impact on the physical environment of the area. Applicants
did not first present their request to the Court of Appeals.
After considering all of the factors required by our rules and
customary Circuit Justice practice, I have decided to deny
applicants' request for a stay pending disposition of their
appeal by the Ninth Circuit.
Denied.

