OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S,

HUGHES v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. HUGHES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS;

Nos. 718, 719.

Submitted January 10, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.

Jackson v. United States, ante, p. 599, followed to effect that the United
States is not liable for damages caused by overflow of tands in the
Mississippi valley caused by the levees constructed by state and
Federal authority for protection from overflow and improvement of
navigation, and that such overflow does not amount to a taking of
property within the Fifth Amendment.
The wrongful act of an officer of the United States, such as dynamiting
a levee in an emergency so as to preveu;t the water from interfering
with other work under construction, is not the act of the United
States; nor does it amount to taking for public use the property overflowed as a result of the dynamiting.
45 Ct. Cl. 517, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the question of liability of the
United States for damages alleged to have been sustained
by the owner of a plantation in the Mississippi River
Vtlley by reason of the improvements of the Mississippi
Iiver under direction of the Federal Commission charged
with that work, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Waitman. IL Conaway for appellant in No. 718 and
appellee in No. 7,19.'
Mr. Assistait Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. J.

Iarwood (raves for the United States.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.

This suit was commenced to recover from'the United
States the sum of $200,560, subsequently reduced by an

HUGHES v. UNITED STATES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amended petition to $165,000, and $12,000 per annum
until the principal sum was paid on the ground that the
United States had as the result of work done by it in relation to the Mississippi River, taken, in the constitutional
sense, two certain plantations belonging to the 'claimant,
one the Wigwam plantation situated on the east bank of
the Mississippi, and the other a plantation known as the
Timberlake plantation also lying on the east bank but
higher up the river, that is, in Bolivar Couhty, Mississippi,
and opposite Arkansas City on the west bank. As to the
first, the Wigwam plantation, there was judgment below
in favor of the United States, rejecting the claim, and
No. 718 is an appeal by the claimant from that judgment.
As to the Timberlake plantation, there was a judgment
against, the United States for what was deemed to be the
value of the plantation, and No. 719 is an appeal by the
United States from that judgment. The court made a
series of general findings stating what was considered to
be the facts concerning the situation upon which the right
to recover in a general sense as to both plantations was
based. It then made particular findings as to the Wig,
warn plantation and like. findings as to the Timberlake
plantation. Although the general findings are in some.
respects amenable to the criticism that they draw erroneous conclusions of law concerning the legislation of Congress, with regard to the improvement of the Mississippi
River, and the action of the officers under such legislation,
a.s was done in the Jackson Case, and also treat such mistaken conclusions as findings of fact, such errors are not
as apparent as they were in the Jackson Case. This results from the fact that the general expressions in the
findings manifesting the error which we. pointed out in
the Jackson Case are as a rule in this case quaified-by
statements incompatible with the general expresqions and
which thereforeserve to correct the error which otherwise
would exist. Thus, in finding 1, after referring to the St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinon of the Court.

230 IT. S.

Francis and other basins on the west bank and the out flow
of water into these basins ultimately reaching the Gulf of
Mexico, as described in the findings in the Jacksorm Case,
and the stoppage of such outflow and consequent increase
of the volume of water in the river which in the Jackson
Case was virtually attributed exclusively to work done by
the United States or under its control, the finding in this
case accurately states the relation of the United States
and the local authorities to the work as follows:
"The outlets and drains thus provided by nature were
such as to accommodate said flood waters, and the lands
of claimant were'not overflowed as frequently before the
outlets were closed by levee construction by the United
States to improve the river navigation, and by the State
and local authorities to protect and reclaim land subject
to overflow in times of high water, and consequently were
but little injured by said overflows."
So,,again, in No. 2, although the finding refers to the
adoption of the Ea ds plan almost in the same all-embracing
words used in the Jackson Case, it yet states in explicit
terms that the acts of Congress but authorized an improvement of navigation and empowered expenditures for
that purpose and in referring to levee construction done
pursuant to such'Congressional action, it is declared in
the finding: that the United States "for the improvement
of the Mississippi River for navigation .
and the
local authorities or organizations of the States bordering
along the river on both sides from Cairo to the Gulf have
before and sitnce 1883 constructed and are now construct.ing and mnaintaining certain lines of levees at various
places and of various lengths for the purpose of protecting
and reclaiming lands within their respective districts from
overflow in times of high water." Again, in the concluding part of the fourth finding a statement in accord with
that made in the Jackson Case is found concerning the
co6peration of the -United States and local authorities in

HUGHES v. UNITED STATES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

levee building which is qualified, however, by subsequent
statements which with reasonable accuracy displays the
real situation, that is, the unifying of the energies, of the
United States and the local authorities to a common end,
levee construction, .although the purpose on the one hand
was the improvement of navigation and on the other the
protection of land from overflow. And this also is further
illustrated by finding 3 which points out the scope and
character of the authority delegated by Congress to build
levees, that is, the improvement of the navigation of the
river.
The special findings relating to the Wigwam plantation
but established that that plantation was situated in one
of the minor basins below Vicksburg like those between
Natchez and Baton'Rouge which were described in the
Jackson Case. Indeed, the court, in express terms found
there was identity between that case and this, and placed
its conclusion against the right to recover upon its ruling
in the Jackson Case; and in so doing, in view of our affirmance of the judgment in the Jackson Case, 'it follows that
in our opinion no error was committed.
As to the Timberlake plantation, special findings were
made, and omitting those which relate to the title of the
claimant and to the loss suffered by the overflow of
the property in the years following the special action by
the Government, which it. was considered gave rise to the
right to relief, the findings are as follows:
"IX.
"TIMBERLAKE

PLANTATION.

"Prior to the construction of the Huntington Short
Line levee by the United States the waters of the Mississippi River did not overflow and submerge the Tiniber-

lake plantation hereinafter described at such frequent intervals and for such duration as to disturb the claimant
in !the profitable use, enjdyment, and possession thereof
or so as to materially affect its cultivation, productive

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

capacity, or market value. It was then suitable for the
purpose of raising thereon, and there was profitably raised
thereon, crops of cotton, cotton seed, corn, hay, and other
products. Since the completion of said Huntington Short
Line levee by the United States, placing the plantation of
claimant between the old and new levee, in the restricted
and narrower high-water channel of the river, the rises
in the water of said river, by reason of the water being
thus confined and restricted in its flow, have been, and
are now, occurring at such frequent intervals and for such
duration as to prevent the claimant from raising any kind
of a crop thereon; the buildings have become untenantable
and uninhabitable; the fencing washed away; the land
covered with superinduced additions of water, earth,
sand, and gravel to a depth of from 3 to 12 feet; said land
has since grown up in willows, cottonwood, underbrush,
and weeds so as to render it valueless to her; to destroy
its market value; and to compel its abandonment.
"Prior to 1898 said lands (Timberlake plantation) were
comparatively high and secure from overflow by the flood
waters of the Mississippi River, except at long intervals,
and the occurrence of such overflows did not materially
affect their productive capacity or market value. Said
lands were highly improved, well stocked with tenants
and laborers, yielded large crops of cotton, cotton seed,
corn, hay, and other products, were located adjacent to
what was formerly the town of Huntington, located between the Huntington Short Line levee and the river,
since washed away by the flood waters of the Mississippi
River, and .deserted as a place of residence by the inhabitants some years after the building of the Huntington Short
Line levee-1898-1900-was very valuable as plantation
property, and was worth the sum of ninety thousand dol-.
lars ($90,000).
"The claimant, Mary E. Hughes, obtained $12,000 from

HUGHES v. UNITED STATES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Board of Mississippi Levee Commissioners, by judgment, for damages to the drainage of the Timberlake
plantation into Black Bayou when it was thrown out by
the construction of the Huntington Short Line levee in
1898-1900. This plantation is located in the vicinity of
and opposite the Arkansas City gauge and was protected
from overflow up until the time of the construction of the
Huntington Short Line levee.
"XI.
"Prior to the year 1898 said Timberlake plantation
was protected from overflow by the flood waters of the
Mississippi River by a continuous levee line located in
front of said lands along, by, and close to the river bank
for*its entire frontage, built by State and local authorities,
and said plantations still remained valuable for plantation
purposes, and up to that time had not been seriously injured in its use and enjoyment by tke flood waters of said
river.
"About the year 1898 the United States surveyed and
thereafter began to construct what was known as and now
called the Huntington Short Line levee, a new levee, about
15 feet high, located some distapee back from the old
levee, behind the land of claimant, thus placing and permanently locating said Timberlake plantation between the
Huntington Short Line levee and the old levee in the
narrower high-water channel and bed of the river, placing
an additional burden and servitude thereon and subjecting said property to more frequent and destructive overflows and the force and scouring power of the high-water
current of said river. After the completion of the Huntington Short Line levee a high water came in the river
during the year 1903 and because of a break in said old
levee the water of said river began to flow onto alnd over
the plantation of claimant, then located between the old
'levee and the Huntington Short Line levee, and remained
standing on and over said land to a great depth after the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.,

high waters receded, and because of the great pressure of
the water thus confined, standing against said Huntington
Short Line levee, threatening its destruction by breaking
through, the United States then caused the old levee to
be 'blown up by dynamite in many places, so as to relieve
the pressure of the Water' standing against the Huntington
Short, Line levee, and to save it, thus causing the water
to rush over and across said land, injuring it for agricultural as well as all other purposes, greatly reducing its
value'.
"XIV.
"Upon the foregoing facts the court findsas an ultimate
fact, so far as it is a question. of fact, that the effect of
placing, and permanently locating the Timberlake plantation of claimant -between the Huntington Short Line levee
and the old levee, and the river bank, was and is an act
on the part of the United States intending to place, and
which finally resulted in placing, the lands of claimant in
the narrower high-water channel of the Mississippi River,
subjecting it to more frequent and destructive overflows,
and the forceful and destructive action of the current,
placing an additional burden. and servitude thereon,
which had finally resulted, since the years 1907, 1908 and
1909, in such serious and continuous interruption to the
common and necessary usc and enjoyment of said property, as to amount to a taking thereof by the United
States under the fifth amendment to the Constitution."
It will be observed that finding 9, although special to
the Timberlake plantation contains statements concerning
the general raising of the flood level in the river as the
result of levee work done by the United States and the
state and local authorities followed by a description of the
injury by overflow to the Timberlake plantation which
would give rise to the inference that the judgment which
was rendered against the United States as to that plantation was based upon a consideration of that subject. If

H'UG(HES v. ITN ['PED STATES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that view were taken the case would be controlled by our
decision just rendered in the Jackson Case, but we cannot
adopt that view of the court's action, as the court in the
Jackson Case decided that like facts did not justify recovery against the United States and reiterated in this case
its conclusion in that respect by rejecting the claim as to
the Wigwam plantation. Under this view we assume that
finding 9 was a mere inadvertence, or at all events if not
so may be now put out of view. This leaves only for consideration the special facts concerning the Timberlake
plantation.
The plantation bordered on the river and was protected
by a levee. Whether that levee was built by the private
efforts of the owner of the land or by state or local authority does not appear. The officers of the United States
deeming it advisable in aid of the improvement of navigation to construct a new levee, did not locate it along the
riverin front of the plantation, but joining the existing
line tof levee somewhere above the projecting point on
which Timberlake plantation was situated, built a direct
line of levees which passed across the point several miles
back of the Timberlake plantation and joined the line of
levees on the river bank below the plantation. This levee,
known as the Huntington Short Line, is thus described in
the report of the Mississippi River Commission for 1898,
at p. 3390:
"Huntington Short Line.-This is a new levee under
construction from Mound Landing to a point about 1' 2
miles below Offutts Landing. The new levee here is 4.4
miles in length, and will shorten the levee line 7 miles over
its present length."
The findings exclude the conception that this new and
more direct levee was built upon land belonging to the
owner of the Timberlake plantation. They show that the
location and construction of this new line of levee was
approved by the local levee authorities, since they estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

lish that ihose authorities paid to the owner of the Timberl ake plantat ion a sum of money for the incidental damage
occasioned to that plantation by the fact that the levee
in passing in the rear of the plantation obstructed drains
or means of drainage by which the surface water of the
plantation was carried off to the rear. The report of the
Mississippi River Commission for 1900, p. 4849, shows
that before this payment was made by the local authorities
there was a suit brought by owners of the plantation and
that that suit culminated in a recognition by the local
courts of the right to build the levee on payment of the
sum stated, which was but a part of a much larger claim
made which was disallowed. The facts just stated serve
to demonstrate the error which was committed in deciding
that the exertion of nat ional power to build levees for
improving navigation had effaced the exercise of state
power to construct levees for protection from overflow,
since they manifest the harmonious cooperation of the
two powers, the United States bearing the burden of
building a great levee in the interest of navigation and
the local authorities, in view of the protection from overflow which necessarily rwulted from the construction of
the levee for navigation purposes, contributing the amount
essential to pay an award of a local character.
Upon all these facts we are unable to perceive. any
ground for distinguishing the claim as to the Timberlake
from that as to the Wigwam plantation or from the claims
which were held to be without merit in the Jackson Case.
We say this because the claims in the Jackson Case as well
as the claim in this case made as to the Wigwam. plantation
in their last analysis but involve the assertion of a right of
recovery against the United States for failing ,to build a
levee in front of the plantations in question' for the purpose
of affording them protection from the increased stage of
high-water which it was asserted had been created by the
act of the United States in building levees elsewhere along

HUGHES v. UNITED STATES.
.230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court:

the river. This being so, as it is not pretended that the
building of the new line of levee here considered trespassed upon the property rights of the owners of the
Timberlake plantation by an actual taking of land, the
asserted claim but conies to this, that the owner of the
Tiinberlake plantation abutting on the river is entitled to
hold the Unit ed States responsible becauise in improving
the navigation of the river the officers of the United
States, in selecting the place where a levee should be built
did not select the front of the plantation, that is, did not
construct the levee along the river bank of the plantation.
Thus accurately fixing the contention, it is patent that we
cannot affirm the judgment of the court below against the
United States as to the Timberlake plantation without
reversing its judgment in favor of the United States as to
the Wigwam plantation and without disregarding the decision which we have just announced in the Jackson Case.
In saying this we are not unmindful of expressions in the
findings, and which indeed the court below declared in
express terms was the basis of its legal conclusion in respect to the liability of the United States, to the effect
that the building of the new levee operated to change the
situation of the claimant's property by putting it in the
bed of the river. But the substance of things may not
be changed by mere figures of speech. The plantation
was situated on the bank of the river. It was protected
from overflow by the levee on that bank. Whether that
levee was private or public, as we have said, does' not appear, but nothing in the fact that a new levee was built
far in the rear of the plantation changed the physical situation, or had the magical effect of transporting the property
from one place to another. Where it was before the location of the new levee, it remained after the new levee was
completed. True it is that if from caving bahks or other
natural causes it became impossible to protect the
prol)erty by means of a levee along its front, that fact was in
VOL. CCXXX-:--3

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

no way caused by the building of the new levee, and if
high water and disastrous overflow subsequently came
from the inherent weakness of, the existing levee along the
front on the river bank, the consequent loss may not be
attributed to the fact that a new and stronger levee was
constructed along shorter and safer lines. There is no
pretense of any intention to injure the claimant by the
building of the new levee; and on the contrary, light is
reflexly thrown upon the conditions which led to the exercise of judgment on the part of the officers of the United
States in building the new levee on the much shorter and
more directline by the report of the Commission for 1899,
at p. 3555, .where the caving condition of the bank of
the river in and about the place where the plantation was
situated, is stated.
As to the statement in one of the findings concerning
the act of an officer of the United States after theold levee
had given way in using dynamite to enlarge the opening,
we find it difficult to understand the finding. Of course it
can be easily appreciated that when a break, occurred in
the old levee along the bank, that impelled by the great
force of the current of the river and the volume of its
water, there rushed through the opening or crevasse with
great momentum, a body of water which might before its
force was spent strike the new levee, although it was far
in the rear, and endanger its safety, a danger which is
aptly portrayed as to a relatively similar situation elsewhere in the report of the chief of engineers for 1903 at
p. 260. But the finding does not seem to refer to such a
danger nor to assume that the dynamite was used to guard
against it, that is, to expand the opening in the old levee
to such a degree that although increasing the quantity of
the flow of water it would diminish its momentum and
thus prevent the danger of striking against the new levee
and sweeping it away. We say this since taking the finding literally it gives rise to the conviction that the old levee

EX'PARTE AM. STEEL BARREL (XY.
230 U. S.

Syllabus.

was dynamited after theriver had subsided for the purpose of allowing thewater to flow off, which had accunulated in the basin created by the remaining line of old levee
along the rive' front and the line of the new levee. We do
not stop, however, to further cQnsider the subject, since
whatever view be taken of Ithe finding, the fact as to the
use of dynamite would not in law amount to a taking by
t he United States, because in any.event the mere act, to
meet an emergency, of the officer, conceding, under the
circumstances stated, that it was a wrongful act, cannot
be held to be the act of the United States, and therefore
affords no ground in any event for holding that the United
Stat6s had taken the property for public use.
It follows from what we have.saidrthatthe judgment below
in favor of the United States in: No.6718 must be affirmed,
and the judgment against the United States in No. 719
must be and it is reversed. And it is so ordered.

EX PARTE AMERICAN STEEL BARRE L CO.
AND SEAMAN.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND RULE.
No. 14, Original.

Argued April 21, 1913-Decided. June .16, 1913.

The proceeding to retire for personal- bias or prejudice a trial judge of
a United States court fron further hearing a case of which he has
jurisdiction had its origin in the new Judicial Code, ยง 21,' and is only
applicable in rare instances in which not merely adverse, but biased
and prejudiced, rulifigs are shown and facts and reasons given.
Section 21 of tho Judicial Code is not intended as a means for a discontenoted litigant ousting a judge because of adverse rulings, or as
a method of paralyzing the action of a judge wio has heard the case
by disqualiffying him betweei thehearing and the determination of
tife matter heard.

