OMAHA ELECTRIC CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

OMAHA ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER CO. v.
CITY OF OMAHA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 162. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted October 23, 1911, and
postponed to the hearing on the merits. Argued February 27, 28, 1913.
Reargued April 10, 11, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.
As a basis of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court it is not enough that recovery might be sought upon a constitutional ground; it must clearly
appear that it is actually so sought.
Where diverse citizenship exists anId the complainant plants its right to
relief on the doctrine of estoppel, the case is not one arising under
the Constitution of the United States, even though recovery nighl
have been sought on the ground of impairment of the contract, and
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
Appeal from 179 Fed. Rep. 455, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from the Circuit Court of Appeals under the
Judiciary Act of 1891, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Crawford, Mr. John A. Rine, Mr. William C.
Lambert, Mr. Benjamin S. Baker, Mr. I. J. Dunn and
Mr. L. J. TePoel, for appellees, in support of motion
to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. Lodowick F. C~ofoot and Mr. Edgar H. Scott for
appellant, in opposition thereto.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The facts out of which this suit arose are fully set forth
in Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, ante, p. 100, and need

O(C)TOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

not be repeated here. The Electric Company brought
the suit in the Circuit ("ourt, against the city and its
electrician, to enjoin the threatened disconnection, pursuant to the resolution of 1908, of the company's wires
used in supplying its patrons with electric current for
power and heating purposes. There was a. decree for the
defendants, 172 Fed. Rep. 494, which was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 179 Fed. Rep. 455, and a
further appeal brought the case here.
Our jurisdiction is challenged, by a motion to dismiss,
on the ground that the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is final. The motion is well taken if the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked solely on the
ground of diverse citizenship. Act of March 3, 1891,
26 Stat. 826, c. 517, ยง 6; Judicial Code, ยง 128. That it
was invoked on that ground is conceded, so it is necessary
to inquire whether, as is asserted in opposition to the
motion, it was also invoked upon the ground that the
suit was one arising under the Constitution of the United
States. This must be determined from the plaintiff's
statement of its own cause of action as set forth in the
bill, regardless of questions that may have been subse(quently brought into the suit. Shulthis v. McDougal,
225 U. S. 561, 569; Denver v. New York Trust Co., 229
IT. S.123.
Briefly described, the bill set forth the adoption by
the city council of the franchise ordinance of 1884, its
acceptance by the Thompson Company, the construction
and installation of the electric plant, the transfer of the
plant and franchise to the Electric Company in 1903,
the business done by the two companies in supplying
current for power and heating, as well as for lighting,
purposes, the enlargement and improvement of the plant
from time to time to meet the increasing demand for current for those purposes, the city's acquiescence in and
encouragement and sanction of all this with knowledge

OMAHA ELECTRIC CO. v. OMAHA.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that it was done under a claim of right under the franchise
ordinance, the exaction by the city of three per cent. of
the gross earning, including those from current supplied
for power and heat, the adoption of the resolution of 1908,
and the threatened disconnection thereunder of all wires
used for transmitting current for power and heating
purposes. The bill further charged that in what was done
prior to the resolution the city and the two companies
had treated the franchise as including the right to use
the streets in transmitting current for power and heat;
that upon the faith of this practical construction the.
plaintiff had ,expended large sums of money in developing and equipping its plant according to approved modern
standards; and that the interference with its wires and
business which was threatened by reason of the changed
attitude of the city would result in great and irreparable
loss and damage to the plaintiff.
The relief sought was a perpetual injunction restraining the defendants from disconnecting the plaintiff's wires
or interfering with or impeding its business as theretofore
conducted. There was no prayer that the resolution be
pronounced void, nor any allegation that it impaired the
franchise contract or would operate to deprive the plaintiff of its property without due process of law, nor any
reference to the Constitution of the United States, or any
of its provisions, nor even a general statement that a constitutional right was being or about to be infringed.
Tested by the recognized standard, we think the bill
did not state a case arising under the Constitution. It
(lid not show, either in terms or by. necessary intendment,
that the plaintiff was asserting a right, privilege or immunity under the Constitution or was in anywise invoking
its' protection.. For anything that appeared the plaintiff
was planting its right to relief entirely upon the doctrine
of estoppel. As a basis of jurisdiction, it is not enough .
that' recovery might be sought upon a constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U..S.

ground, for it must clearly appear that it is actually so
sought. Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368, 392; Hanford
v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273, 280.
It being thus apparent that divnerse citizenship was the
sole ground upon which the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was invoked, it follows that the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals was final. Spencer v. Duplan
Silk Co., 191 U. S. 526; Bankers Casualty Co. v. Minneapolis &c. Railway Co., 192 U. S. 371 ; Shulthis v. McDougal,
s.vpra; Lovell v. Newman, 227 U. S. 412; Denver v. New
York Trust Co., supra.
Appeal dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HoxMEs took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

BUTTS v. MERCHANTS & MINERS TRANSPORTATION CO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 131.

Argued January 2l, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.

Where the greater p4rt of a statute is unconstitutional as beyond the
,power of Congress, the question for the court to determine as to.the,
part which is constitutional is whether it was the intent of Congress
to have that part stand by itself-if not, the whole statute falls.
This court holds that it was the evident intent of Congress in enacting
the Civil Rights Act, to provide for its uniform operation in all

places in the States as well as the Territories within, the jurisdiction
of the United States, and that it was not the intpit of (0ongressthat
the provisious of the statute 0ioukl be applicable only to such places

