CHES. & OHIO HY. v. CONLEY.
230 U. S.

Syllabus.

the "findings, statements and figures as to both companies", should be put "in consolidated form as those of
the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company."
Separate decrees were entered in the two cases, and
separate appeals and cross-appeals have been taken.
The same disposition must be made of both. (See
Knott v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Co,parny, No. 345, sub Missouri Rate Cases, note p. 474, ante.)
The decree below is therefore reversed and the cause is
remanded with directions to dismiss the bill without
prejudice.
It is so ordered.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. CONLEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No, 111.

Argued April 8, 1912.-Decided June 16, 1913.

Where the state court has held that the carrier is exempted from the
operation of the penalty clause of a rate-making statute during
prosecution by it in good faith of a suit to determine the constitutionality of such statute, the carrier camot attack the validity of
the statute on the ground of its penal provisions.
Classification in a rate-making statute of railroads less than fifty miles
in length is not unreasonablh and does not ren(elr the statute uncostitutiond as violating the e(ual protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment. Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 6580.
As construed by the state court, the statute of West Virginia of 1907 is
not unconstitutional becmuse the classification of railroads under
fifty miles in length only applies to such roads as are not under the
control, managenent or operation of other railroads.
A classifiction excepting electric lines and street railways from a rail-

voL. ,cxxx-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

230 U. S.

road rate statute is reasonable and proper and does not offend the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Omaha &
Council Bluffs Railway Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., ante, p. 324.
MinnesotaRate Cases, ante, p. 352, followed to effect that a state statute
prescribing rates exclusively for intrastate traffic is within the power
of the State to enact.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
two cent rate act of West Virginia of 1907, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. F. B. Enslow, with whom Mr. H. Fitzpatrick, Mr.
H. T. Wickham and Mr. W. E. Chilton were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
The West Virginia two-cent fare statute is unconstitutional because the penalties pronounced by the statute
against any railway which shall fail to comply with the
same are so excessive as to bring the act within the
inhibition of Art. VIII of the Constitution; and, under
the Fourteenth inendment, the act deprives the plaintiff
of its property without due process of law, and denies to
it the equal protection of the law.
The entire act is unconstitutional, because the classification thereby made of the railways makes the act
applicable to railroads of a certain class, and such classification as set out is unfair and unjust, and a mere arbitrary selection imposed by the legislature without any
relation to the alleged purpose of the act and not based on
any reasonable grounds.
The act is also unconstitutional because it necessarily
imposes a burden upon the plaintiff as an interstate
carrier, and denies it the right to transact and carry on
interstate commerce free from the burdens and restrictions
imposed by the West Virginia two-cent fare act.
The act is unconstitutional by reason of the classification by length of roads. Many States afflicted with the
"two-cent fare fad of 1907" passed such statutes in 1907;

CHES. & 01O RY. v. CONLEY.
230 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

but every statute has keneral application, makes no discriminations, treats every railroad alike; and in the few
cases where classifications are made, those classifications
are founded upon a good reason, every road in each class
is treated as are all others in that class, and there is no
difficulty in assigning a railroad to its proper class from a
physical examination of its property.
Alabama has a straight 21 2¢ rate, and has not an exception in it. General Acts Ala. 1907, p. 104. Illinois has a
straight'two-cent rate, without an exception in it. Laws of
Ill. 1907, p. 476. Pennsylvania has a straight two-cent
rate, without an exception. Laws of Penn. 1907, p. 59.
North Carolina has'a straight 24(/ act which has the
proviso that the Corporation Commission is authorized
to permit "all independently owned and operated railroad
companies in North Carolina, whose mileage of road in
said State is sixty (60) miles or under, to charge a rate for
transporting passengers not in excess.-of the present rate
fixed and prescribed for. said road." Public Laws of
Nor. Car. Session 1907, c. 216, p. 250.
Iowa classifies railroads according to gross earnings per
mile without any exception whatever with rates from
2q to 3V. Laws of Iowa, 1907, c. 102.
Minnesota has a straight 2V rate with a half rate for
children under 12 years of age. Laws of Minn. 1907, c.
97, p. 109.
Missouri divides railroads into four classes, to-wit:
A, B, C and D, of which D includes all roads less than 45
miles in length, not owned, leased, controlled or occupied
by any trunk line company or corporation. This classification includes and embraces every class of railroad in the
State, and there is no chance, by construction or otherwise,
to put one short railroad in one class to-day and in another
to-morrow. The rate is fixed at 2V per mile for classes
A, B and C; and at 4( per mile for class D. Laws of Mo.
1907; p. 171.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

230 U1 S.

Nebraska has a straight 2V fare law applying to all railroads without exception. Laws of Neb. 1907, c. 92, p. 341.
North Dakota has a straight 21 2 rate for distances exceeding six miles with a reduced rate for children, the only
exception being that the act "shall not apply to the transportation of passengers within the boundaries of any city
by street railways." Laws of N. D. 1907, c. 199, p. 327.
Ohio has a straight 2V per mile rate without any exception whatever. Laws of Ohio, 1906, p. 4.
South Carolina has a straight rate of 30. Laws of So.
Car., 1902, § 2165. This act was subsequently amended
by the single proviso that any railroad not over 5 miles
in length may be permitted by the Railroad Commission
to charge 5¢ per mile. See Acts of So. Car., 1908, No. 469.,
p. 1047.
South Dakota has a straight 2V rate without a single
exception. Sess. Laws of So. Dak., 1909, c. 6, p. 8.
The act of West Virginia makes an unreasonable,
arbitrary, unjust and totally indefensible classification of
railroads, or it so exempts certain railroads as to make
it repugnant to the rules laid down by this court. More,
it is a classification which is one thing in one part of the
statute and another thing in another part.
A railroad under fifty miles in length is excepted, provided it be not a part of, or under the control, management
or operation of any other railroad over fifty miles in length.
If a railroad should be exactly fifty miles in length it is in
a peculiar situation.
An assessment, no matter how made, which adopts a
different method and fixes a different rate for certain corp)orations which results in enormous disparity and discrimination denies equal protection of the laws. Raymond v. Chicago Un. Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20.
While the State can classify, and may make a difference
in classes, the basis upon which any classification is made
is always subject to review by the courts. Nicholas v.

C(tES. & 011O flY. v. CONLEY.
230 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Walter, 37 Minnesota, 264; Bluejacket v. Scherr, 50 W. Va.
533; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22.
The Fourteenth Amendment requires the same means
and methods to be applied impartially to all the constituents of a class, so that the law shall operate equally and
uniformly upon all persons in similar circumstances.
Brannon, 323; Kentucky R. R. Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321;
Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; Atchison v.
Mathews, 174 U. S. 105; State v. Broodbelt, 89 Maryland,
565; New York v. Clearing House, 179 U. S. 287; Am.
Sugar Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Railway v. Mackey,
127 U. S. 205; Pembina v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 188.
Recognizing the right of classification of industries and
occupations, it must nevertheless always be remembered
that the equal protection of the laws is guaranteed, and
that such equal protection is denied when upon one of two
parties engaged in the same kind of business and under
the same conditions burdens are cast which are not cast
upon the other. Richards v. Harmon, 42 N. J. L. 435;
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 85;
Fertig v. Patton, 88 Pa. St. 258; Edmondson v. Herbrandson, 14 L. R. A. 725; State ex rel. v. Mitchell 31 Oh. St. 592;
People v. Chatauqua,43 N. Y. 10; Smith v. L. & N. R. R.,
75 Alabama, 449; State ex ret. v. Ramsey Co., 48 Minnesota, 236.
The classification is based not only on length but also
on control and management, and this renders it a denial
of equal protection of the law.
Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 180, distinguished. And
see Cooley, Con. Lim., 5th ed., 484; State v. Haun, 61
Kansas, 146; Railway Co. v. Medaris, 60 Kansas, 155;
Levalle v. Railroad, 40 Minnesdta, 249; Deppe v. Railway
Co., 36 Iowa, 55; Ballard v. Cotton Oil Co., 81 Mississippi,
507; Bedford Quarries Co. v. Bough, 80 N. E. Rep. 529.
An exception to the statute cannot take one business
and favor it when other corporations and other individ-

OCTOBER TERM, '912.
Argument for.Plaintii in Error.

230 U. S.

uals, doing the same- kind of business. are not so favored,
nor can the statute permit a small corporation to engage
in the same business with a larger corporation, the latter
having burdens which the former has not, or the former
having privileges which the latter has not. ('onnolly v.
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 558; Slate v. Petroleum Co., 58
W. Va. 109; Re Crrice, 79 Fed. Rep. 628; (otting v. Kai~sa,
City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 85.
A state railroad statute which imposes such excessive
penalties that the parties affected are deterred from testing
its validity in the courts, denies the carrier the equal protection of the law, without regard to the question of insufficiency of the rates prescribed. Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123; Willcox v. Consol. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19.
While the length of the road may furnish in some instances a proper basis for classification, such classification
must be called for by facts justifying it, and if it has the
effect of denying equal protection to parties engaged in
the same kind of business, and is so worded that it applies
to some corporations in the class, and excludes others, it is
invalid. Kentucky R: R. Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321; Cotting
v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; St. Louis Coal
Co. v. Illinois, 185 U. S. 203; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Melton, 218 U. S. 36; Mo., Kans. & Tex. Ry. Co. v. May,
194 U. S. 267; Ozan Lumber Co. v. Union National Bank,
207 U. S. 251; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Chi., R. I.
& Pac. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453, distinguished;
Heath & Milligan Mfg. Co. v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338; Engel
v. The
O'Malley, 219-U. S. 128, are all inapplicable to this case.
Two-Cent Fare Act of West Virginia
imposes
burdens and restrictions upon interstate commerce, and is
for that reason also invalid.
Congress having, under authority of the Constitution,
prescribed rates and regulations governing the charges of
interstate carriers, no State can impose burdens upon or

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. CONLEY.
230 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

enact statutes that actually do conflict with and nullify
the regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S.489; Gulf, Colo. & Santa Fe Ry.
Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 99; Wabash &c. Ry. v. Illinois, 118
U. S. 557; Cleveland &c. Ry. v. Illinois, 177 U. S.514; Em-'
ployers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S.463.
The statute, by reason of the extreme penalties pronounced, is in violation of the constitution of West Virginia.
It makes a distinction that should not be upheld; and
no case passed upon by this court has ever sustained such
an arbitrary statute as the one in question.
It is a clear effort on the part of the legislature of West
Virginia to make the statute applicable to the trunk lines
engaged in interstate commerce, and thereby affect and
control the rates published and approved under the regulation of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. William G. Conley, Attorney General of West Virginia, for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcm HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company in the Circuit Court for Kanawha County,
West Virginia, against William G. Conley, Attorney
General of the State of West Virginia, and the prosecuting
attorneys of several counties in the State, to enjoin the
enforcement of the act of the legislature of West Virginia
passed February 24, 1907 (Acts, 1907, chapter 41, p. 226),
fixing the maximum fare for passengers on railroads, as
described, at two cents a mile.
The state court sustained the act and this writ of error
is brought.
The act provides:
"Swc.

1. That all railroad corporations organized or

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

doing business in this state under the laws or authority
thereof shall be limited in their charges for the transportation of any person with ordinary baggage, not exceeding
one hundred pounds in weight, to the sum of two cents per
mile, or fractional part of a mile, but the fare shall always
be made the multiple of five nearest reached by multiplying the rate by the distance, and if for any one passenger
the rates herein provided shall be less than five cents, the
said sum of five cents may be charged as a minimum;
children under twelve years of age shall be carried for
one-half" fare above prescribed; provided, that any passenger boarding a train at a station where tickets are sold,
without having procured a ticket, may be charged an
additional fare of ten cents, for which sum a rebate slip,
redeemable in money, upon presentation to any ticket
agent of the company, shall be issued and delivered to
such passenger; and provided, further, that nothing in
this act shall apply to any railroad in this state under
fifty miles in length and not a part of, or under the control, management or operation of any other railroad, over
fifty miles in length, operated wholly or in part in the
state.
"SEc. 2. Any railroad company which shall charge,
demand or receive any greater compensation for the
transportation of any passenger, than is authorized by
this act, shall be fined for each offence not less than fifty
dollars nor more than five hundred dollars; provided, that
nothing contained in this act shall apply to electric lines
and street railways owned or operated-in this state."
The questions presented are thus stated by the plaintiff
in error:
"First: The statute in question is unconstitutional
because of the fact that the penalties pronounced by the
statute against any railway which shall fail to comply
with the same, are so excessive as to bring the act within
the inhibition of Article Eight of the Constitution of the

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. CONLEY.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States, and under the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States deprives the plaintiff
of its property without due process of law, and denies to
it the equal protection of the law.
"Second: The entire act is unconstitutional, because the
classification thereby made of the railways makes the act
applicable to certain railroads of a certain class, and such
classification as set out is unfair and unjust, and a mere
arbitrary selection imposed by the Legislature without any
relation to the alleged purpose of the act, and not based
on any reasonable grounds.
"Third: Because the act necessarily imposes a burden
upon the plaintiff as an interstate carrier, and denies it
the right to transact and carry on interstate commerce
free from the burdens and restrictions imposed by, the
West Virginia two cent rate act."
While the plaintiff in error was entitled to a fair. opportunity to test the constitutional validity of the prescribed rate, and penal provisions operating to preclude
such an opportunity would be invalid (Ex parte Young,
209 U. S. 123), it is clear that the provisions for penalties
of the statute in question, aside from their separable
character, are not open to this objection, in the light of
the construction placed upon them by the state court.
In construing the act, the Supreme Court of Appeals of
West Virginia held:
"By the institution of a suit to determine whether such
a statute is confiscatory in its operation in a particular
case, such corporation alters its status from that of a mere
corporation engaged in the public service, to that of a
contestant of the legislative claim of right to take its
property without due process of law; and, in the absence
of expression of intent to the contrary, it is presumed the
legislature did not intend to affect, or interfere with, the
assumption or maintenance of such status, nor to legislate
upon the subject of such remedy; and the penal clause of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

such a statute, silent on the subject of remedy, has no
application, while suit is pending, in good faith, for the
determination of such question. . . . By the application of these rules and principles, a railroad company
is excepted from the operation of the penalty clause of
chapter 41 of the Acts of 1907, during the prosecution by
it, in good faith, of a suit to determine whether said
statute is confiscatory in its operation and effect, as
applied to such company." Coal & Coke Railway Co. v.
Conley and Avis, 67 W. Va. 129, 133, 134.
Under this ruling, it does not appear that the company
is in a position to attack the validity of the act by reason
of its penal provisions. It has had its opportunity in
court, and if the act be otherwise valid it may avoid,
penalties hereafter by complying with it. Further, as
was said in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond,
224 U. S. 160, 172: "If an oppressive application of them
should be attempted, it will be time enough then for the
appellant to file its bill."
Nor can it be said that the classification of the act is an
unreasonable or arbitrary one. In Dow v. Beidelman, 125
U. S. 680, the statute under consideration classified railroads with respect to passenger fares, as follows: "On lines
of railroad fifteen miles or less in length, eight cents per
mile. On lines over fifteen miles in length, and less than
seventy-five miles in length, five cents. On lines over
seventy-five miles in length, three cents per mile." The
court in sustaining the statute said: "The legislature, in
the exercise of its power of regulating fares and freights,
may classify the railroads according to the amount of
the business which they have done or appear likely to
do. Whether the classification shall be according to the
amount of passengers and freight, carried, or of gross or
net earnings, during a previous year, or according to the
simpler and more constant test of the length of the line
of the railroad, is a matter within the discretion of the

CHEN. & OHIO RY. v. CONLEY.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legislatilre. If the same rule is applied to all railroads
of the same class, there is no violation of the constitutional provision securing to all the equal protection of the
laws." (p. 691.)
Again, in Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Raitway Co, v.
Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453, the court sustained the statute of
that State, which, in providing for the number of men to
be employed in the operation of freight trains, excluded
from its application railroads less than fifty miles in length.
The principles governing the decision of a question of
this sort have been so frequently stated that repetition is
unnecessary. Magoun v. Illinois T. & S. Bank, 170 U. S.
283, 294; Louisville & Nashville R. k?. Co. v. Melton, 218
U. S. 36, 52-55; Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Company, 220 U. S. 61, 78;
Mutual Loan Co. v. Martel, 222 U. S. 225, 232; Chicago
Dock v. Fraley, 228U. S. 680.
It is urged, however, that "control, management or
operation" is made the basis of classification for rate
purposes, so that, if a railroad under fifty miles in length
be controlled by a railroad of greater length, it would be
taken out of the exception although operated wholly
independently and not in connection with the longer line.
This contention is fully met by the construction which the
state court has given to the statute. Upon this point that
court said that the meaning of the words "under the control, managemeit or operation" "is to be ascertained
from the coiqnection in which they are used, the act in
which they axe found, its context, and the mass of legislation of which they fcrm a part. In form, the expressions
are alternative, but, in meaning, they are appositive,
signifying the same as the words 'part of.' . . .
The
suggestion that ownership or control of one railroad by
another, when they are not connected and operated together, nor susceptible of such connection and operation,
makes them one within the meaning of the act, is H4ls

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

wise contrary to the spirit and beyond the scope thereof.
Such an interpretation is not within its reason or purpose,
and, therefore, not within its meaning. The legislature
must be regarded as having passed the act, in view of
existing conditions and methods of railroad operation,
and with the intent that it should operate in harmony with
the spirit and general principles of existing railroad rate
legislation, except in so 'far as the contrary is expressed in
terms or by necessary implication. There is not a word
here signifying any intent to depart from the general
principle embodied in the act of 1873, concerning the
entity of a railroad for the purposes of the act. It made
into one only such railroads as were operated 'in connection' with one another. Intent to change this settled
policy must rest upon something more, in an amendatory
act, than mere inference, surmise or unnecessary implication." Coal & Coke Railway Co. v. Conley and Avis, 67 W.
Va. 129, 177, 178, 179.
The exception of "electric lines and street railways" is
also made the ground of criticism, but this classification
rests upon reasonable and familiar distinctions, long
recognized as proper in railroad legislation; Omaha &
Council Bluffs Street Railway Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, ante p. 324.
The final objection to the statute is that it constitutes
an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce.
It must be regarded, however, as prescribing rates exclusively for intrastate traffic, and, as thus construed, it
wds within the power of the State to enact. The questions
presented are substantially the same as those which were
considered in the Minnesota Rate Cases, ante, p. 352.
Judgment affirmed.

