OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

Syllabus.

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ Y MORALES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 92. Submitted December 17, 1912.-Decided June 16, 1913.
Under § 35 of the Foraker Act, appeals from the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico are subject to the provisions applicable
to appeals from the Supreme Courts of the Territories under thq
act of April 7, 1874, under which the jurisdiction of this court is confined, in a case where there are no errors assigned upon questions of
evidence, to determining whether the findings of the court below
support the judgment. Rosaly v. Graham, 227 U. S. 584.
Even if the 'commanding officer in territory occupied by military forces
of the United States has all the legislative power as to such territory
possessed by Congress, he is still subject, as Congress is, to the provisions of the Fifth Amendment and cannot by military orders deprive persons of their property without due process of law.
To shorten the period for acquisition of title by prescription and give
the order a retroactive effect so that the period has elapsed at the
time the order is made without giving those who have interests in
the property an opportunity to be heard and saving no existing rights,
amounts to taking Oroperty without due process of law.
The provision in the judicial order of Gefieral Henry published April 7,
1899, during the military occupationof Porto Rico by the United
States, reducing the period for prescriptive title to real estate in that
island from the periods previously established by law down to six
years with retroactive effect and without any opportunity for third
parties to be heard, amounted to a deprivation' of property of the
actual owners without due process of law and was beyond the power
of the Military Governor; nor was this provision ratified by any subsequent action of Congress.
The status of Porto Rico during the military occupancy and before the
exchange of ratifications of the treaty of peace, was the same as that
of the Philippine Islands during the same period.
Fron the exchange of ratifications -until Congress acted by the passage
of the F6raker Act the provisional government established inPorto
Rico continued as before the peace.
I )uring the entire period General Orders No. 101 relating to Cuba and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

280 U. S.

reiterated mutatis mutandi as to Porto Rico by General Miles continued in force as the recognized declaration of principles by which
the Military Government was limited, and under this the Governor
was without authority to make any order that would deprive any
person of his property without due process of law.
While the exact definition of the term "due process of law" may be
uncertain, it is certain that it inhibits the taking of one man's property and giving it to another, contrary to settled usages and modes
of procedure, and without notice or an opportunity to be heard.
Statutes of limitation may be modified by shortening the time which is
still running but only so that a reasonable time still remains for commencement of an action before the bar takes effect.
Wherever registry laws are in force, the rule is that a purchaser takes
subject to any defects and infirmities that may be ascertained by
reference to the chain of title as spread on the record, and this includes invalidity of an order on which title is based.
Under the registry law of Porto Rico rights of third parties were preserved and a mortgagee or grantee acquired no better right before
the expiration of the period of prescription than the grantor, but took
subject to the rights of infants who owned property the title to which
had been fraudulently registered in the name of the grantor.
Where the limitations on a person exercising authority are notorious
and are simply in accord with national and international law, there
is no hardship in applying the rule that rights cannot be acquired
under orders made by such person which are wholly beyond his authority.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 463, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the title to real estate in
Porto Rico and the constitutionality of certain military
orders during the military occupation of that Island, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. D. Mott, Jr., for appellants:

The Judicial Order of April 4, 1899,-is not unconstitutional nor is it repugnant to Art. V of, or the Fourteenth
Amendment to, the Constitution of the United States.
Paragraph 3 of the Judicial Order is no-t a statute of

limitations properly so called. It cut off no right of action
on the part of anyone. In the present case it permitted
appellants' grantor to convert His possessory into a dominio

0CHOA v.: HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

title to the land in dispute and record the same. In no
way did it affect the rights of appellees.
The conversion, though the result of judicial proceedings, did not have the effect of res judicata, and did, not
bind anyone who did not appear in said proceedings. Calderon v. Gaicia, 14 P. R. Sup. Ct. 407; Gonzalez v. El
Pueblo, 10 P. R. Sup. Ct. 458.
Even as to those who had so appeared and opposed
the conversion sought by such proceedings, their rights
could not be adjudged, or passed upon, in those proceedings, but such rights must be decided in an ordinary action
of r vindication. The court is limited in such proceedings
of conversion to saying whether or not the petitioifer has
shown a right to the conversion asked for. It cannot pass
upon the rights of others: Diaz v. Waymouth, 13 P. R.
Sup. Ct. 317; Parisv. Porto Rico, 5 P. R. Sup. Ct. 29.
The alleged rights of appellees concerning the land in
question were not affected by the conversion proceedings
whereby appellants' grantor converted his possessory title
into a title of ownership, or dominion title. Nor did the
recording of the dominio title by such grantor cut off any
of the alleged rights of these appellees. If such title was
fraudulent, it was liable to attack, even after registry,
within any period short of thirty years, after he had
entered into possession of the land and while still recorded
in his name, or in that of any otler person, excepting an
innocent purchaser without nv,,ice, or in the language of
the civil law "a third party with good faith," Abella v.
Antunano, 14 P. R. Sup. Ct. 485; Paris v. Porto Rico,
5 P. R. Sup. Ct. 29; Valdes v. Valle, 1 P. R. Sup. Ct. 75
(Span. ed.); Gonzalez v. El Pueblo, 10 P. R. Sup. Ct. 458.
As appellees could have exercised their right of action
against appellants' grantor after the latter had converted
his possessory title into a title of dominion and had recorded~such title, and the exercise by appellces of such
-right of action was as ample and full after the recording

142 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

230 U. S.

of such dominion title as it was before such record, paragraph 3 did not cut off any supposed right of appellees,
and therefore does not violate the provisions of Art. V of,
or the Fourteenth Amendment to, the Constitution of the
United States.
Paragraph 3 of the aforesaid Judicial Order, which provides for the conversion of entries of possession into records
of ownership, is in no sense a statute of limitation. But,
even if it be so considered, it took away no remedy which
these appellees possessed before its passage. A statute
of limitation which takes away no remedy which the lahdowner had before its passage is not unconstitutional and
is valid. Turner v. New York, 168,U. S. 90; Saranac Land
Co. v. New York, 177 U. S. 318.
The Judicial Order of April 4, 1899, has been enforced
in many cases by the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, although in such cases its validity or constitutionality was
not questioned or involved. Ex parte Pinto, 6 P. R1. Sup.
Ct. 149; Ex parte Martinez, 6 P. R. Sup. Ct. 169; Ex
parte Miner, 6 P. R. Sup. Ct. 261; Ex parte Sanfeliz, 6
P. R. Sup. Ct. 501;.Ex parte Tarpia,6 P. R. Sup. Ct. 509;
Ex parte Colzada, 6 P. R. Sup.'Ct. 531.
The provisions of Art. V of, and the Fourteenth Amendment to, the Constitution of the United States do not
obtain in Porto Rico.
No. decision of this court directly determines this point,
nor is there any act of Congress which has made the Constitution, or any part of the same, extensive to Porto
Rico.
The Judicial Order of April 4, 1899, was a military order,
promulgated during the occupancy of Porto Rico by the
military forces of;te United States, so that said order was
previous to the act of Congress of April 12,.1900, which act
extended civil government tQ Porto Rico, and ratified and
con~firm&i caill existing laws, military orders, etc., which at
t hat tip were in effect in Porto. Rico, with some excep-

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tions, which are not pertinent to the consideration of the
present case. See § 8, act of April 12, 1900.
The trial court erred in holding as matter of law that the
deed to appellants whereby their grantor sold to them the
lands described in the bill of complaint, is null and void,
and that neither such deed nor the recording of the same
in the proper registry of property conferred title upon
defendants or protected such title in them.
Mr. Hector H. Scoville and Mr. Joseph Anderson, Jr., for
appellees.
MR. JusTIc

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity to establish the right of the
complainants (appellees) to a parcel of land containing
106 acres, situate in the Barrio Nuevo, in the Jurisdiction
of Naranjito, in the Island of Porto Rico, found to exceed in
value the sum of $5,000. The District Court decreed that
the complainants were the legal owners of this land by
inheritance, and entitled to the possession of it as against
the appellants, a firm doing business under the name of
J. Ochoa y Hermano; that the firm should deliver possession to the appellees; that all entries in the registry of
property, of "dominio" and "posesorio" title by or in
favor of that firm, and all other entries of either kind of
title as against the appellees, should be canceled, etc.
5 P. R. Fed. Rep. 463. Defendants appealed to this court.
At the time the appeal was taken, § 35 of the act of
April 12, 1900, known as the Foraker Act (31 Stat. 77, 85,
e. 191), was in force-since superseded by § 244 of the
Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, 26 Stat. 1087, 1157, c.
231,-and subjected appeals from the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico to the regulations applicable
to appeals from the Supreme Courts of the Territories.
These were controlled by act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

18 Stat. 27, 28, by which it was provided that instead
of the evidence at large, a statement of the facts in the
nature of a special verdict, with the rulings of the court on
the admission or rejection of evidence when excepted to,
should be made and certified by the court below, and
transmitted to this court with the transcript of the proceedings and judgment or decree. Our jurisdiction therefore is confined to determining whether the facts found by
the District Court support its judgment; for no errors are
assigned upon questions of evidence. Rosaly v. Graham,
227U. S. 584, 590, and cases cited.
The findings are in substance as follows:
Jose Maria Hernandez, the paternal grandfather of
complainants, was at the time of his death in the year 1872,
the owner and in possession of a tract of land in which was
included the parcel of 106 acres in controversy. His title
to this parcel was never recorded. Upon his death his son,
Juan Hernandez, became by inheritance the owner of it,
and entered into and remained in possession as owner
until his death, which occurred in the year 1887; but his
title was never recorded. Upon his death, Juan Hernandez
left surviving him *twoyoung children, the ,complainants,
and also a widow,ltheir mother; she died in the year 1906,
and the complainants, then still minors, became sdle
owners of the tract by inheritance from their father; but
their title has never been recorded.
In the year 1890, the title to the land in question did not
appear of record in favor of any person, either in the books
of the present or modern registry, or in the books of the
old registry, -the ancient "anotadurias" or "contadurias."
In that year Raimundo Morales, the maternal grandfather of the complainants, fraudulently representing
hiinself to be the owner, appeared before the municipal
court of Naranjito, an Insular court, and by certain ex
parte proceedings obtai)ed from that court a decree declaring him to be entitled to the possession of the land,

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but without prejudice to third parties who might show a
better right to such possession. The possessory title so
obtained was duly recorded or inscribed in the proper
registry of property, in the same year, and was the only
title to the land that then appeared recorded or inscribed
in the registry.
In the year 1899, Morales again appeared before the
same Insular court and petitioned for a decree converting
the possessory title, or entry of possession in the registry,
into a record of ownership (titulo de dominio). His petition
and the proceedings had thereon in the Insular court
were based upon the provisions of a Judicial Order, dated
April 4, 1899, and promulgated in the Official Gazette of
Porto Rico under date April 7, 1899. This order was made
ander authority of Major-General Guy V. Henry, U. S.
Volunteers, at that time Military Governor of Porto Rico,
and by its terms reduced from twenty years to six years
f he period during which real estate must be held in order
to permit the conversion in the registry of a posesorio title
to a dominio title. Upon the application of Morales, such
proceedings were had in the Insular court as were provided
for in the Judicial Order, and the court in due time made
and entered its decree to the effect that the entry of possession, or possessory title which appeared in the registry
recorded in favor of Morales,, be converted into a record
Of ownership or dominio title. Thereafter, and in the
same year (1899), this decree was duly recorded or' inscribed by Morales in the proper registry of title, and the
dorninio title thereafter appeared in the registry recorded
solely in his name.
In the year 1901, there appearing in the registry no
claim or right or title in the land on the part of any other
person or persons, Morales, still frabdulently representing
himself to be the true owner, mortgaged the land for value
to the defendants, constituting the firm of J. Ochoa y
Ilermnano, who truly and in good faith believed him (MoVOb. (!CXXX -- 10

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

rales) to be the owner of it, and were entirely ignorant of
the rights of the complainants therein. The mortgage
was duly recorded in the proper registry of property in the
same year.
Thereafter, and in the year 1903, the record still showing
nothing respecting the ownership of the lands besides the
dominio title of Morales and the mortgage of the defendants, and they being still ignorant of the rights of
the complainants, Morales by deed duly executed before
a notary public, in which his wife joined, sold and transferred the land to defendants in full payment of the
amounts due and secured by the mortgage. The defendants duly recorded the deed in the same year, and by
their agent immediately took possession of the land.
The present action was commenced in 1908, shortly
after the complainants arrived at full age.
Upon these facts the District Court concluded as matter
of law that the Judicial Order of General Henry, dated
April 4, 1899-so far as it operated retrospectively upon
the rights of the complainants, who were minors at the
time and for some time thereafter, and who owned the
land during the entire period of nine years that elapsed
between the fraudulent entry of possessory title in the
name of their maternal grandfather, Morales, and the
promulgation of General Henry's order-was null and
void because in contravention of the "due process of
law" clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States,
For an understanding of the questions presented, it
should be premised that Congress declared war to exist
between this country and Spain by act of April 25, 1898,
30 Stat. 364, ch. 189; that Porto Rico, then a colony
of Spain, was occupied by the military forces of the
United States from and after July 25; that a protocol
was signed in Washington, August 12 (30 Stat. 1742),
under which hostilities between the two countries were

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

suspended pending negotiation of a treaty for the establishment of peace, by the terms of which protocol (inter
alia) Spain agreed to cede the Island of Poito Rico to
the United States and to immediately evacuate it, and
commissioners were appointed to meet at Paris and proceed to the negotiation and conclusion of the treaty;
that accordingly a treaty was signed at Paris under date
December 10, 1898, ratifications being exchanged at
Washington, April 11, 1899 (30 Stat. 1754), and by its
terms, Porto Rico was ceded to the United States, and
(Article IX, p. 1759) "The civil rights and political
status of the native inhabitants of the territories hereby
ceded to the United States shall be determined by the
Congress." The military occupation of Porto Rico was
immediately followed by the establishment of a provisional
government, as will be mentioned below, and this government continued in control of the affairs of the Island
continuously until the ratification of the Treaty, and
thereafter until the enactment of the Foraker Act of
April 12, 1900, entitled "An act temporarily to provide
revenues and a civil government for Porto Rico, and for
other purposes" (31 Stat. 77, c. 191).
The statement of facts is silent upon the question of
the possession of the property from the death of the father
of the appellees in the year 1887 until the appellants
entered into possession under the deed given to them by
Morales in the year 1903. Assuming (in favor of appellants) that Morales had possession from the time he procured the entry of a possessory title in his name, the effect
of this, as between him and the true owners, was that
uninterrupted possession for 30 years would ripen into
a good title and confer immunity from action (former
Civil Code P. R., Articles 1959, 1963, New Civil Code,
P. R., §§ 1860, 1864). He was not entitled to avail himself of Article 1957, that declared a'prescription by possessioh for ten years as to persons present, and for twenty

1 8

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

years with regard to those :absent, because this was confind to possession "with good faith and proper title;"
and Morales had neither, within the meaning of those
terms as employed in the Code (Former Civil Code P. R.,
Arts. 1940, 1941, 1950, 1952, 1953, 1954; present Civil
Code, §§ 1841, 1842, 1851, 1853, 1854, 1855). The entry
of a possessory title in his name was in effect a judicial
certificate declaring him to be entitled to the possession,
but without prejudice to third parties, who might show
a better right to it. It gave him no title as against them,
but conferred a primafacie legitimacy upon his possession,
being "provisional and presumptive evidence of ownership;" and it fixed a date from which his possession should
be treated as originating; and so the entry amounted
(for present purposes) to no more than public notice
that from that time his possession was adverse to the
true owners. Soto v. Registrar of Property, 15 P. R. Sup.
Ct. 597, 600; Morales v. Landrau, 15 P. R. Sup. Ct. 761,
772; Paresv. J. Reynes & Co., 2 P. R. Fed. 402, 428.
But appellants rest their case upon the provisions of the
Mortgage Law, as amended by the judicial order of General Henry. 4The Mortgage Law is a somewhat elaborate
system of registration for instruments of conveyance
that, having been long in force in the Peninsula, was
extended to Porto Rico and the Philippines in or about
the year 1893. It was designed to give to purchasers
and mortgagees, acquiring interests in lands in reliance
upon recorded titles, protection against claims and interests of which no notice was conveyed by the records.
Its provisions are to be read in connection with those of
the Civil Code. By Art. 27, "Those who have not participated in the recorded instrument or contract" are
considered as third persons. By Art. 33, "The record of
instruments or contracts which are null in accordance
with the law are not validated thereby." But, notwithstanding this, by Art. 34, "Instruments or contracts

()11OA v, HEJRNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

executed or covenanted by a person who, according to
the Registry, has a right thereto, shall not be invalidated
with regard to third persons, after they have once. been
recorded, although later the right of the person executing
them is annulled or determined by virtue of a prior deed
not recorded, or for reasons which do not clearly appear
from the Registry. Only by virtue of a recorded instrument may another later instrument, also recorded, be
invalidated to the prejudice of third persons,, [with exceptions not now material.] The provisions of this Article
[341 may at no time be applied to the instrument recorded
in accordance with the provisions of Article 390, unless
the prescription has validated or secured the interest
referred to therein." By Art. 36, "Suits for rescission
or determination of title shall not be instituted against
third persons who have recorded the instruments of their
respective interests in conformity with the provisions of
this law." But by Art. 37 exceptions are made to the
rule thus declared, and one of them is-"Suits for rescission or determination of title which are due to the
causes plainly expressed in the Registry."
Subsequent sections provide for the mortgaging of
different interests in real property, and for various purposes, and declare the effect that shall be given to the
mortgages, provide for the manner of keeping the registries, for making and correcting entries therein, and for
proceedings for clearing the title of unrecorded mortgages
and other charges and interests. Art. 389 prohibits the
admission in the courts, etc., of uirecorded documents
or instruments if presented for the purpose of enforcing,
to the prejudice of third persons, interests which should
have been recorded. Aricles 390 to 395 inclusive contain provisions under which owners who lack a recorded
title of ownership are permitted to record their interests
by previously proving their possession before the Judge
of First Instance, or the proper MNuniepal Judge, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

the consent of the fDepartment of Public Prosecution
and citation of the adjacent property owners, should
they desire to record, the absolute ownership of some estate, and with the citation of the owner or other participants in the ownership, should they desire to record some
property right. Article 391 prescribes the form-of the
.proceedings. Article 392 provides that the court, on
approving the proceedings, shall "order that the record
requested be made in the Registry without prejudice
to a third person having a better claim." Among the
prerequisites for converting entries of possession into
records of ownership under this procedure it was, by par. 6
of Art. 393, provided that twenty years must have elapsed
since the date of entry of possession. By Art. 394-"If
the twenty years calculated from the date of the entry [of
possession] have not elapsed, or the requisites mentioned
in Article 393 of this law have not been- complied with,
the entries of possession shall have the legal effect embraced in the provisions contained in the following paragraphs, [viz]. The period of possession which appears
to have elapsed at the time said entries are made shall
be computed for the prescription which does not require
a just title, unless a person prejudiced thereby denies it,
in which case said period of possession must be proved
in accordance with the common law. Entries of possession shall prejudice or favor third persons from the date
of their record, but only with regard to the effects which
the laws attribute to mere possession. The entry of
possession shall not prejudice the person who has a better
right to the ownership of the realty, although his title
has not been recorded, unless the prescription has confirmed and secured the claim recorded. Between the
parties the possession shall be effectual from the date
prescribed by the common law. The provisions contained
in the preceding Articles, regarding the entries of possession, can not be applied to mortgage rights, which can

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not be recorded unless an instrument in writing is presented."
Under the Mortgage Law, it seems to be settled that
there proceedings for proving possession or ownership
before the courts of first instance or municipal courts,
although judicial in form, are intended merely as aids
to the establishment of a system of authenticated instruments of title for purposes of the ,public records;
that although under some circumstances it is required
that notice be given to the owner or other persons interested adversely to the applicant, the proceedings are
really ex parte, have not the effect of res judicata, and do
not bind any one who does not appear. Gonzalez v. The
People, 10 P. R. Sup. Ct. 458; Calderon v. Garcia,14 P. R.
Sup. Ct. 407, 416.' And even with respect to a party who
appears and opposes the entry of a possessory title or its
conversion into a dominio title, his rights can not be
adjudged or passed upon in these proceedings, but must
be decided in an ordinary action of revindication; the
court being limited, in the proceedings under the Mortgage Law for a conversion of a possessory to a dominio
title, to saying whether petitioner has shown a right to
the conversion asked for; but without passing upon the
rights of others. Parisv. The People, 5 P. R. Sup. Ct. 29;
Diaz v. Waymouth, 13 P. R. Sup. Ct. 317.
This is conceded by the appellants, who, indeed, base
their argument upon it; contending, further, that, because
of what has just been said, the rights of appellees in the
land in question were not affected by the proceedings
whereby Morales converted his possessory title into a
title of ownership, and that the recording of this dominio
title by him did not cut off any of their rights; that if such
title was fraudulent it was liable to attack, even after
registry, within any period short of thirty yearq after he
had entered into possession of the land and while still
recorded in his name, or in that of any other person

0( 1TB10II

T'1

, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

excepting an innocent purchaser without notice; or, in the
language of the civil law, "a third party with good faith."
Paris v. The People, 5 P. R. Sup. Ct. 29, 37; Gonzalez v.
The People, 10 P. R. Sup. Ct. 458, 462; Abella v. Antunano,
14 P. R. Sup. Ct. 485, 494; Merchant v. Lafuente, 5 Phil.
Rep. 638, 644.
Upon the strength of this, it is ingeniously argued that
under the law of Porto Rico it was not the conversion of
the apparent title of Morales from a possessory to a
dominio title that cut off the rights of the appellees; but
it was the fact that the appellants, in reliance upon that
apparent title, and (as is said) without notice of the rights
of the appellees, purchased the. land from Morales, which
by virtue of the Mortgage Law gave to them a better
right than the appellees. And from this it is contended
that the, Judicial Order, in reducing from twenty years to
six yeanr the time that must elapse between the entry of a
possessory title and its conversion into a dominio title, did
not cut off any right of appellees, and therefore was not
and is not inconsistent with "due process of law."
But it seems'to us that there can be no difference in
principle-so far as concerns the question whether the
property of the appellees was taken from them without
due process-whether there were two steps or 'three steps
in the course of procedure by which the end was accomplished. Whether the retroactive effect of the Judicial
Order resulted in conferring upon Morales a title that he
himself could maintain against the true owners, or whether
it conferred upon him an apparent title that not he himself but jis grantees could maintain, makes no difference
in a controversy between his grantees and the true
owners.
In short, the position of appellees is that by the fraudulent cionduct of Morales, plus the Mortgage Law, plus
he Judicial Order, plus the douinio title in Morales
founded thereon, and-the recording thereof, plus the

OCHOA v. HERNAN1EZ.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mortgage and deed to-appellants, their property has been
taken from them and given to appellants, without notice
to them or an opportunity for a hearing; and that the
proceedings in court for converting the possessory into a
dominion title, while bearing the semblance of judicial
proceedingsi departed therefrom in the essentials. To
this, it is no answer to say that those proceedings in, court
did not, under the Mortgage Law, purport to be judicial
proceedings at all; nor to say that they would have done
no harm except for the subsequent conveyance by Morales
to the appellants.
We proceed, therefore, to consider the fundamental
question upon which the court below rested its decree.
The Judicial Order of General Henry, dated April 4',
and published April 7, 1899 (Mil. Ord. Porto Rico, vol. 2,
p. 71), contains seven clauses or paragraphs, of which the
first amends Art. 1957 of the Civil Code so as to reduce
the period for prescription by possession accompanied
with good faith and a proper title, from ten years with
respect to persons present, and twenty years with respect
to persons absent, down to six years as to persons both
present and absent. This has no direct bearing upon the
present case, for reasons already indicated.
Other clauses of the Order amend Articles 391, 393, 394,
and 395 of the Mortgage Law. The most important is
that which amends paragraph 6 of Article 393, so as to
reduce from twenty years to six years the period during
which possession must continue in order to convert an
entry of possession into a record of ownership upon the
public records. The final clause declares: "This order
shall have retroactive effect."
The court below held (5 P. R. Fed. Rep. 463) that, assuning General Henry possessed all the legislatiPe power
that is possessed by Congress under the Constitution, he
was still necessarily subject (as Congress would be) Io the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

"due process of law" clause of the Fifth Amendment.
And since his judicial order, because of its ret roactive
clause, by its terms covered the present case, where the
real owners of the land were infants and unable to protect
themselves, and where they still had, under the Mortgage
Law as it stood, nearly twelve years in which to attain
maturity and contest the possession and right of Morales,-and since the order shortened the period of limitation to six years, which period in their case had already
elapsed, the order at the same time containing no provision
for saving existing rights or giving to them or to others in
like situation any opportunity to assert their rights; it
was the same in effect as taking their property without
due process of law.
We find it unnecessary to consider whether the authority of General Henry was subject to the same constitutional limitations as that of Congress; for we have reached
a like result, so far as the present case is concerned, upon
different reasoning.
Porto Rico at the time was still foreign territory, and
was under a provisional military government established
by President McKinley as Commander-in-Chief. In order
to determine the extent bf the authority of General Henry,
and the limitations upon it, we must look to the orders
under which the military government was established
and maintained.
The Island was occupied by the forces of the United
States under Major General Miles, Commanding U. S,
Army, on July 25, 1898. He appears to have had no
special instructions from the President respecting the
government that should be established, but it was well
understood that he and those under him were subject to
the instructions communicated by President McKinley
to the Secretary of War under date July 13 with reference to Cuba (10 Mess. & Pap. 214), and published
by the War Department as General Orders No. 101,

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

'Opinion of the Court.

under date July 18, of which a copy is set forth in the
margin. 1
[Corrected copy.-Please destroy all others.]
GENERAL ORDERS,

WAR DEPARTMENT,
ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,

No. 101.

Washington, July 18, 1898.

The following, received from the President of the United States, is
published for the information and guidance of all concerned:
EXECUTIVE MANSION,

Washington, July 13, 1898.

To the SECRETARY OF WAR.
SIR: The capitulation of the Spanish forces in Santiago de Cuba and
in the eastern part of the Province of Santiago, and the occupation of
the territory by the forces of the United States, render it necessary to
instruct the military commander of the United States as to the conduct
which he is to observe ,duringthe military occupation.
The first effect of the military occupation of the enemy's territory is the
severance of the former political relations of the inhabitants and the establishment of a new political power. Under this changed condition of
things the inhabitants,so long as they perform their duties, are entitled to
security in their persons and property and in all their private rights and
relations. It is my desire that the inhabitants of Cuba should be acquainted with the purpose of the United States to discharge to the
fullest extent its obligations in this regard. It will therefore be the duty
of the commander of the army of occupation to announce and proclaim
in the most public manner that we come not to make war upon the inhabitants of Cuba, nor upon any party or faction among them, but to
protect them in their homes, in their employments, and in their-personal and religious rights. All persons who, either by active aid or by
honest submission, co6perate with the United States in its efforts to
give effect to this beneficent purpose will receive the reward of its
support and protection. Our occupation should be as free from severity as possible.
Though the powers of the military occupant are absolute and supreme
and immediately operate upon the political condition of the inhabitants,
the municipal laws of the conquered territory, such as affect private rights
of person and property and provide for the punishment of crime, are considered as continuing in force, so far as they are compatible with the new
order of things, -ntil they are suspended or superseded by the occupying
belligerent and i practice they are not usually abrogated, but are allowed

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

The clauses especially pertinent to the present question
are the following: "The first effect of the military occupation of the enemy's territory is the severance of the former
political relations of the inhabitants and the establishment
to remain in force and to be administered by the ordinary tribunals, substantially as they were before the occupation. This enlightened practice is,
so far as possible, to be adhered to on the present occasion. The judges and
the other officials connected with the administration of justice may, if
they accept the supremacy of the United States, continue to administer

the ordinary law of the land, as between man and man, under the
supervision of the American Commander-in-Chief. The native constabulary will, so far as may be practicable, be preserved. The freedom
of the people to pursue their accustomed occupations will be abridged
only when it may be necessary to do so.
While the rule of conduct of theAmerican Commandcr-in-Chief will
be such as has just been defined, it will be his duty to adopt measures
of a different kind, if, unfortunately, the course of the people should
render such measuires indispensable to the maintenance of law and
order. He will then possess the power to replace or expel the native
officials in part or-altogether, to substitute new courts of his own constitution for those that now exist, or to create such new or supplementary tribunals as may be necessary. In the exercise of these high
powers the commander must be guided by his judgment and his experience and a high sense of justice.
One of-the most important and most practical problems with which
it will be necessary to deal is that of the treatment of property and the
collection and administration of the revenues. It is conceded that all
public funds and securities belonging to the government of the country
in its own right, and all arms and supplies and other movable property
of such government, may be seized by the military occupant and converted to his own use. The real property of the state he may hold and
administer, at the same time enjoying the revenues thereof, but he is
not to destroy it save in the case of military necessity. All public means
of transportation, such as telegraph lines, cables, railways and boats
belonging to the state may be appropriated to his use, but unless in
case of military necessity they are not to be destroyed. All churches
and buildings devoted to religious worship and to the arts and sciences,
all schoolhouses, are, so far as possible, to be protected, and all destruction or intentional defacement of such places, of historical monuments
or archives, or of works of science or art, is prohibited, save when required by urgent military necessity.

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ,
230 U. S.

Opinion of fhe Court.

of a new political power.

Under this changed condition

of things the inhabitants, so long as they perform their
duties, are entitled to security in their persons and property and in all their private rights and relations..
..
Though the powers of the military occupant are absolute
and supreme, and immediately operate upon the political
condition of the inhabitants, the municipal laws of the
conquered territory, such as affect private rights of person
and property and provide for the punishment of crime, are
Private property, whether belonging to individuals or corporatiors, is
o be respected, and can. be contfiscated only for cause. Means o1 transportation, such as telegraph lines and cables, railways and boats, may, although they belong to private individuals or corporations, be seized by
the military occupant, but unless destroyed under military necessity
are not to be retained.
While it is held to be the right of the conqueror to levy contributions
upon the enemy in their seaports, towns, or provinees which may be in
his snilitary'posscssion by conquest and to apply the proceeds to defray
the expenses of the war, this right is to be exercised within such limitations that it may not savor of confiscation As the result of military
occupation the taxes and duties payable by the inhabitants to the former government become payable to the military occupant, unlcss he
sees fit to substitute for them other rates or modes of contribution to
the expense of the government.. The moneys so collected are to be
ued for the purpose of paying the expenses of government under the
military occupation, such as the salaries of the judges and the police,
and for the payment of the expenses of the Army.
Private property taken for the use of the Army is to be paid for when
poss ble in cash at a fai, valuation, and when payment in cash is not possible, receipts are to be given.
All ports and places in Cuba which may be in the aetual possession
of our land and naval forces will be opened to the comimerce of all
nieutral nations, as well as our own, in articles not contraband of war
upon payment of the prescribed rates of duty which may be in force
at the time of the importation.
WILLIAM McKINLEY.
By

OHDER.OF THE SECRETARY OF WAR:

H. C. CORBIN,
Adjutant General.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

considered as continuing in force, so far as they are compatible with the new order of things, until they are suspended or superseded by the occupying belligerent, and
in practice they are not usually abrogated, but are allowed
to remain in force and to be administered by the ordinary
tribunals, substantially as they were before the occupation.
This enlightened practice is, so far as possible, to be
adhered to on the present occasion. . . . Private
property, whether belonging to individuals or corporations, is to be respected, and can be confiscated only for
cause.".
General Miles was second in command only to the
President, and as his representative had full control in
Porto Rico. That he fully sympathized with the purposes
of the President, and intended that all subordinate officers
should govern themselves accordingly, appears from his
declaration to the inhabitants 'under date July 28, in
which he said: "The first effect of this occupation will be
the immediate release from your former political relations,
and it is hoped a cheerful acceptance of the government
of the United States. The chief object of the American
military forces will be to overthrow the armed authority
of Spain, and to give to the people of your beautiful island
the largest measure of liberty consistent with this military
occupation. We have not come to make war upon the
people, ,..
but, on the contrary, to bring you
protection, not only to yourselves but -to your property,
to promote your prosperity, and to bestow upon you the
immunities and blessings of the liberal institutions of our
government. It is not our purpose to interfere with any
existing laws and customs that are wholesome and beneficial to your people so long as they conform to the rules
of military administration, of order and, justice. This is
not a war of devastation, but one to give to all within the
control of its military and naval forces the advantages
and blessings of enlightened civilization."

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And under date July 29, a letter of instructions was
published under the authority of General Miles for the
information and guidance of all concerned, in which the
substance of General Orders No. 101, mutatis mutandis,
was embodied, so as to be binding upon the military
governmeht of Porto Rico (Rep. War Dept. 1900, Vol. 1,
Part 13, pp. 18-22).
The protocol of August 12, 1898 (30 Stat. 1742), the
purport of which has already been given, left our Government, by its military forczs, in the occupation and control
of Porto Rico as a colony of Spain, and bound by the
principles of international law to do whatever was necessary to secure public safety, social order, and the guaranties of private property. From this time until the interchange of the ratifications of the treaty on April 11, 1899
(30 Stat. 1754), General Orders No. 101, and the instructions of General Miles to his subordinates dated July 29,
1898, continued to form the authority, and the sole authority, for the military government of Porto Rico.
This island, and the islands and keys adjacent and belonging to it, were by order of October 1, 1898 (General
Orders No. 158), established as a military department,
and Major General John R. Brooke was assigned to its
command. He assumed the-command on October 18,
and held it until December 8. General Henry succeeded
him on that (Tate, and remained in command until after
the ratification of the treaty.
The status of Porto Rico during the military occupancy,
and before the exchange of ratifications, was the same
as that of the Philippines during the same period, and
is dependent upon principles expounded in frequent
decisions of this court. Fleming v. Paqe 9 How. 603,
614, 615; Cross v. Harrison,.16 How. 164, 190; Dooley v.
United States, 182 U. S. 222, 230; MacLeod v. United
States, 229 U. S. 416.
From the exchange of 'ratifications until Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

acted by the passage of the Foraker Act, the provisional
government continued as before the peace. Santiago v.
Nogueras, 214 U. S. 260, 265; Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20
How. 176, 178. And see DeLima v. Bidwell, 182 U., S.
1, 174, etc.
During the entire period, General Orders No. 101, as
reiterated by General Miles, continued in force as the
recognized declaration of principles by which the military
government was limited. References to official sources
of information respecting the period of the military
occupancy are given in a marginal note.'
Under all the circumstances we deem it clear that the
Governor was without autfhority from the President to
make any order, judicial in its nature, that would have
the effect of depriving any person of his property without
due process of law.
It is said that § 8 of the Foraker Act (31 Stat. 79, c.
191) had the effect of n'tifying the Judicial Order of
General Henry. That s ,ction declared: "That the laws
and ordinances of Porto Rico now in force shall continue in full force and eff t, except as altered, amended,
ori modified hereinafter, or as altered or modified by
military orders and deck C in force when this act shall
take effect, and so far , the same are not inconsistent
or in conflict with the stU!,.tory laws of the United States
not locally inapplicabie ar. the provisions hereof, until
altered, amended, or repctlcd by the legislative 'authority
hereinafter provided for 1-orto Rico or by Act of Congress
of the United States," wnih provisos not now pertinent.
We can find here no legi-0dative purpose to validate any
-:'

Reports Major-General Comniranding Army, 1898, pp. 31-33; 1899,
pp. 32T, 325.

Reports War Department, 1899, Vol. 1, Fart 6, pp. 488, 491, 565;
1900, Vol. 1, Part 13, pp. 18-30,

General Orders, Department of Porto Rico, 1898, Preface (General
Orders No. 101).

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

order of the Military Governor that was in excess of the
authority conferred upon him by the President.
Without the guaranty of "due process" the right of
private property cannot be said to exist, in the sense in
which it is known to our, laws. The principle, known
to the common law before Magna Charta, was embodied
in that charter (Coke, 2 Inst. 45, 50), And has been recognized since the Revolution as among the safest foundations of our institutions. Whatever else may be uncertain about the definition of the term "due process of law,"
all authorities agree that it inhibits the taking of one
man's property and giving it to another, contrary to
settled usages and modes of procedure, and without notice
or an opportunity for a hearing.
Now, the effect and operation of the retroactive clause
in the Judicial Order of April 4, 1899, as applied to the
facts of the concrete case, were such that although MIorales
had until then no right, title, or interest in the land in
question, and had merely established through fraudulent
rnea,;s "iud withoutl notice to the persons toconied ,a.
footing of possession, as a result of which, if they should
permit his clains to reuiain unchallenged, and he should
in fact. maintain cot'tinuous possession for nearly twelve
years lorger, he would thereby be enabled to procure,
by ex parte proceedings, an apparent title in himnself qs
against them; yet the Order permitted him at once, and
without notice to the owners, to procure such record of
ownership in his nane, although they were then infants,
and, so far as appears, not cognizant of his possession
of the land or of any of his proceedings; and then by
virtue of other provisions of the Mortgage Law, he could
completely deprive them of their property if he could
make sale of it to a bona fide purchaser without notice of
the infirmity of his apparent title.
With reference to statutes of limitations, it is well
settled that they may be modified by shortening the time
VoL ccxxx-I I

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 I.S.

prescribed, but only if this be done while the time is still
running, and so that a reasonable time still remains for
the commencement of an action before the bar takes
effect. Terry v. Anderson, 95 U.S. 628, 632; In re Brown,
135 U. S. 662, 701, 705; Wheeler v. Jackson, 137 U. S.
245, 255; Turner v. New York, 168 U. S.90, 94; Wilson
v. Iserninger, 185 U. S.55, 63. Many other cases might be
cited. The question of what, under given circumstances,
is to be deemed a reasonable time to be allowed for the
bringing of an action when a change is made in a statute
i)f limitations has sometimes given rise to discussion. In
the present case there is no such embarrassment, for here
no time whatever was allowed with respect to the case
of these appellees and all others against whose lawful
ownership an unlawful possession had been held for more
than six years but less than twenty years at the time of
the making of the Judicial Order.
Since the proceeding for converting the entry of possession into a dominio title, as well as the proceeding for
the entry of possession itself, was taken without notice
to the owners, the effect of, the Judicial Order was precisely the same as if the Military Governor had declared
that the property in question should be taken from the
lawful owner and given to the fraudulent occupant.
Certainly General Henry can have had no such purpose,
and must have been wrongly advised with respect to
the results that would flow from making the order retroactive. Otherwise he would have confined it to cases
where there still remained a reasonable opportunity for
the real owner 'to contest thepretensions of the possessor.
And in view of the instructions under which he derived
his authority, the Judicial Order must be construed as if
expressly thus limited.
But appellants rely upon Articles 33, 34, 36, and 37,
already quoted; the effect of. which is that the title of
ti person who according to the registry has a right theretb

OCHOA v. HERNANDEZ.
230 U. S..

Opinioi, of the Court.

[e. g. Morales] shall not. be invalidated with regard to
third persons te, g.appellants] after they have once been
recorded, although later the'right of the person execiuting them [Morales] is annulled Or deterninedfor reasons wtich do not clearly appear from the registry;"
and also, that "suits for rescission or determination of
title shall not be instituted against third persons [e. g.
appellants] who have recorded the instruments of their
respective interests in conformity with the provisions of
this law," except, however, "suits for rescission or deterrnination of title which are due to the causes plainly expressed in the registry." It is said that since Morales
secured the possessory title in 1890, and recorded it in
the same year, and secured the conversion of that title
into a title of ownership in the yeae 1899, and recorded
this dorninio title in the same year, and in the year 1901
mortgaged the lands for value to the aIppllants, and followed this with a conveyance in 1903, he at all times appearing in the registry as sole owner, and since in their
transactions with Morales, appellants acted in good faith
and in the belief that he was the sole owner, they are
protected.
.But the findings show that the entry of po'ssession in
favor of Morales 'declared that his right was "without
prejudice to third parti6s who might show a better right
to such possession," and that the proceedings for the conversion -of the entry of possession into a'record of ownership showed upon their face that they were based upon
the provisions of the Judicial Order of April 4, 1899.
In other words, when appellants took from Morales
the mortgage and deed under which they now claim, they
were charged with notice upon the record that his entry of
possession was subject to the rights of' others; and that
by the law as it form'erly stood, those rights could not
be cut off in less than twenty years.. They Were also.
charged with notice that his dominio title depended upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

the validity of an order made by the Military Governor
purporting to have a retroactive effect and to cut off,
without notice or hearing, the claims of the identical
third parties whose rights were preserved by the entry
of possession; for at the time of the making of the Judicial
Order, the six years had already run.
It is a familiar doctrine, universally recognized wvhere
laws are in force for the registry or recording of instruinents of conveyance, that every purchaser takes his title
subject to any defects and infirmities that maybe ascertained by reference to his chain of title as spread forth
upon the public records. Brush v. Ware, 15 Pet. 93, 111;
Simmons Creek Coal Co. v. Doran, 142 U. S. 417, 437;
Northwestern Bank v. Freeman, 171 U. S. 620, 629; Mitchell
v. D'Olier, 68 N. J. Law (39 Vr.), 375, 384; 53 Atl. Rep.
467; 59 L. R. A. 949.
This principle is recognized in Articles 34 and 37 of the
Mortgage Law. In referring to "reasons which do not
clearly appear from the registry," and "causes plainly
expressed in the registry," they refer of course to matters
of fact, not to matters of law.. In other words, if the registry gives notice of a state of facts that renders the title
invalid or subject to question in law, the purchaser who
relies upon the' record takes his title subject to whatever
consequences may flow in law from the facts thus notified.
Appellants must be presumed, in accepting the mortgage and the conveyance from Morales, to have done so
subject to whatever risk there may have been, arising
from the want of authority on the part of General Henry
to deprive third parties, without process of law, of those
rights, that were saved by the terms of the entry of possession in favor of Morales.
Nor is there any real hardship in applying this rule;
for the limitations under which the Military Governor
exercised his temporaryj authority in Porto Rico must be
deemed to have' been notorious everywhere, since they

NAIAA' i. OYSTVER,
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

were proclaimed at the outset by General Miles, repeatedly
reiterated during the military regime, and indeed were
such as arise from general rules of international law and
from fundamental principles known wherever the American flag flies.
Decree affirmed.

NALLE v. OYSTER.
ERROR

TO THE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 218. Submitted April 16, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.
The practice of bills of exceptions is statutory under the Statute of
Westminster, 2, 13 Edw. I, c. 31, which prevailed in Maryland and
was continued in force in the District of Columbia by the act of
March 3, 1901, except as superseded by the Code established by
that act.
Error appearing on 'the face of the record may be assigned as ground
for reversal, although no exception be taken; nor is the function of
an exception confined to the trial of the action but extends to all the
pleas, challenges and evidence.
This practice was not modified by the Code, nor has it been by any
rules of practice established under it; there is no provision giving the
right to take exceptions on rulings other than those made in the
course of the trial, except as based on the Statute of Westminster;
nor does any rule of court require an exception to be taken in order
to preserve rights of a plaintiff against whose declaration a demurrer
has been sustained.
Section 1533 of the Code applies oniy where the demurrer has been
overruled; it has no bearing upon a case where the demurrer has
been sustained.
Ordinarily malice is to be implied from the mere publication of a libel,
and justification or extenuation must proceed from the defendant;
but where the communication is privileged, the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove malice. White v. Nichols, 3 How. 266.

