ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY.
230 U. S.

553

Syllabus.

Railway, Light & Power Co. v. Railroad Commission of
Oregon, 229 U. S. 397. And, finally, the penal provisions,

of which complaint is made, are separable; Reagan v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 395; Willcox v.
ConsolidatedGas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 53, 54; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160, 172; they fur-

nish no ground for diying effect to the rates, if otherwise
valid.
Our conclusion is that the demurrer was properly sustained.
Decree affirmed.

ALLEN ET AL., RAILROAD COMMISSIONERS
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, v. ST. LOUIS,
IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.

SAME v. ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

Nos. 440, 44]

Argued April 12, 15, 1912.-Decided June 16, 1913.

Minnesota Rate Cases, ante, p. 352, followed to effect that an intrastate
rate fixed by State Railroad Commission is not an unconstitutional
interference with interstate commerce.
A carrier has the right to contest the validity of rates prescribed by a
body clothed by the legislature with power to establish rates on the
ground they are confiscatory, and this right isnot impaired b.V putting the rates into effect if they prove to be confiscatory.
Minnesota Rate Cases, ante, p. 352, also followed to effect that where
the proofs submitted by a carrier attacking rates as confiscatory are

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

not sufficient to justify a finding that the rates are confiscatory, the
bill should be dismissed.
187 Fed. Rep. 290, reversed.

THEsE two suits were brought to restrain the enforcement of the act of the legislature passed February 9,
1907, fixing the maximum fare for passengers at two cents
a mile, and also the orders of the Railroad Commission
made June 4, 1908, prescribing maximum freight and
passenger rates. The facts involved in both cases are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph M. Hill for appellants.
Mr. John M. Moore, with whom Mr. Martin S. Clardy
and Mr. Samuel H. West were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the
court.
The legislature of Arkansas, on February 9, 1907,
passed an act fixing the maximum passenger farV within
the State, on railroads over eighty-five miles in length,
at two cents a mile. On June 4, 1908, the Railroad Commission of the State adopted Standard Distance Tariff
No. 3, which superseded the former freight tariff and
established maximum intrastate freight rates for all classes
and commodities. The requirement with respect to
maximum passenger fares as provided by the legislature
was also promulgated by the commission.
In July, 1908, the appellees, the St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company and the St. Louis
Southwestern Railw~ay Company, respectively, filed their
bills in the Circuit Court, alleging that the action of the
legislature and the commission, in fixing these rates, was
unreasonable and confiscatory, and also that it amounted

ALLE:N v.ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY.
230 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

to an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce. Answers were filed by the defendants, the members of the railroad commission, and voluminous evidence
was taken. The court found the rates to be confiscatory
and a decree was entered enjoining their enforcement.
187 Fed. Rep. 290. The railroad commissioners appeal.
The contention of the complainants based upon the
asserted interference with interstate commerce was rightly
overruled by the court below (Minnesota Rate Cases,
ante, p. 352), and the only question which remains for our
consideration is whether the proof was sufficient to sustain the finding of confiscation.
It is said on the part of the" commissioners, that the
freight tariff No. 3, adopted in 1908, was substantially
similar to that which had been prescribed in 1904, and
that the latter was in substance a repetition of the first
tariff of the commission which had been put into effect
in 1900; that is to say, that, while changes had been made
from time to time to provide suitable adjustments, there
were no substantial differences in the rates imposed by
the last tariff, of which complaint was made, as compared
with those of the earlier years when considered with respect to the effect upon the freight revenue in its entirety.
It is urged, however, by the companies that there were
reductions in fact and that, apart from this, there had
been a continuous increase in the expenses incident to
operation in the State and in the burdens imposed upon
the companies; and also that the passenger fare act of
1907 (February 9, 1907, Acts 1907, Act No. 8, p. 9) had
largely reduced the revenues of the roads. We deem it
to be clear that the right of the complainants to contest
the validity of the rates, if, as applied to changed conditions, they were found to be confiscatory, was not impaired
by their action in putting them into effect. When these
suits were brought, the passenger fare act had been in
force for more than a year, but this gave opportunity to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. 8.

ascertain the actual results, and, even if it were assumied
that the new freight tariff of 1908 did not greatly reduce
the formei' rates, the complainants were certainly not
barred from presenting to the court their contention that
the operation of the rates as a whole deprived.-them of a
fair return from their entire intrastate business.
No question is presented as to the value of the properties
within the State which were used by the companies in
the public service. This was the subject of a formal
stipulation by which it was conceded that the assessments
made by the state tax commission, multiplied by two,
should represent the value of these properties, respectively, for the purpose bf these suits. Upon this basis,
the value of the property of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company was found to be
$39,986,564; and that of the St. Louis Southwestern
Railway Cpmpany, $14,029,634.
In the case of the Iron Mountain road, the period
taken for the purpose of calculation was the six months
ending December 31, 1907. According to the statement
of the company, the total earnings from the business in
Arkansas, interstate and intrastate, for this period, were
$6,675,076.79. The total operating expenses, together
with taxes and rentals, amounted, for the same period, to
$5,175,301.44. The net earnings for thesix months were
thus $1,499,775.35; and this amount was equivalent to a
return at the annual rate of 7.5 per cent upon the entire
value of the property. '
The statement submitted by the St. Louis Southwestern company for the six months ending December 31,
1907, showed operating revenues within the State, from
both interstate and intrastate business, amounting to
$2,288,173.40; and operating expensis, taxes and rentals,
aggregating $1,388,075.94, leaving as net earnings for the
six months, .$900,097,46. We have also, in the case of this
company, its statement for the entire fiscal year ending

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY.
230 U. S.

557

Opinion of the Court.

June 30, 1908, which gives the total operating, revenues within the State, interstate and intrastate, as
$4,130,011.45, and operating expenses, together with
taxes and rentals, amounting to $2,691,287.44, thus leaving
net earnings of $1,438,724.01, or more than 10 per cent.
upon the value of the property.
The showing thus made, of the returns from the combined business, makes it entirely clear that the ultimate
conclusion must depend upon the certainty of the proqf
with respect to the segregation of the results of the intrastate operations. That is, the controlling questions
concern the division of the expenses between interstate
and intrastate transportation, and the determination of,
the share of the total value of the property which is
assignable to the latter and upon which the rate of net
return is to be computed..
As to the apportionment of value, it appears that the
method adopted below was to divide the value of the
entire property, as found, between the interstate and
intrastate business according tor the relation of gross
revenue. In view of the fundamental objections to this
method, which were considered jn Minnesota Rate Cases,
ante, p. 352, the results that have been obtained by resort
to it in these cases cannot 'be accepted as affording a sufficient basis for the conclusion that the State has confiscated
the property of the company.
In dividing the expenses of operation, the defendants
undertook definitely to establish the cost of intrastate
traffic as compared with that which was interstate. For
this purpose, it was endeavored to attribute to the local
and through train services, respectively, their proper shares
of expense and in each case to divide the amount of the
ascertained share according to the traffic carried. In the
case of the Iron Mohntain company, traffic statistics were
taken for the month of October, 1907; these were analyzed
and a division of expenses was made in accordance with

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

a plan devised by expert accountants. The computations,
with respect to the St. Louis Southwestern company, were
based upon the operations of October, 1908, as the company had compiled data for that month in making a test
of comparative cost. According to these calculations of
the defendants, the net return from the entire intrastate
business was at the annual rate of 7.09 per cent. for the
Iron Mountain road, and 9.16 per cent. for that of the
St. Louis Southwestern.
It was objected, however, that the periods selected for
these tests were not representative; that the month of
October, 1907, in particular, was abnormal because of an
unusual congestion of traffic, and that the use of the
statistics for October, 1908, was also open to objection as
they did not show such a fair average of the business as
would enable the court to reach a correct conclusion. The
court below took this view, but it was of the opinion that
proper allowances might be made which would equalize
these conditions. In this view, and for the purpose of correcting assumptions deemed to be erroneous, the court defined the basis of apportionment of thevarious items of outlay in accordance with which new computations were made.
The effect of these calculations was to charge the intrastate
freight traffic on the Iron Mountain road with an extra cost
of 201.5 per cent. per ton mile. The court, concluding
that certain items of the extra cost of local traffic had
been omitted, decided that an additional charge of 8.5 per
cent. would be reasonable, and that the total extra cost of
the intrastate traffic should be placed at 210 per cent.
In the case of the St Louis Southwestern company, the
extra cost of the intrastate freight traffic was fixed at 250
per cent., this being, it is understood, per ton-mile. With
respect to the passenger traffic, the court was of the
opinion that the intrastate service should be charged with
ten per cent. additional cost in the case of the Iron Mountain company, but that no allowance for extra cost was

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY.
230 U. S.

559

Opinion of the Court.

necessary in that of the St. Louis Southwestern Company.
From the computations on these bases the conclusion was
derived that the net return from the entire intrastate
business of the I.ron Mountain company was at the annual
rate of less than one per cent., and from that of the St.
Louis Southwestern company, 2.6 per cent., upon the
shares of the total property value assigned respectively to
the intrastate business.
We shall not attempt to review in detail these calculations upon which the decree is based. While they represent a most serious effort to effect a reasonable apportionment, we are convinced, from our examination of the
evidence, that they have the same infirmity which was
found to exist in the computations in the Minnesota and
Missouri rate cases. Minnesota Rate Cases, ante, p. 352;
Missouri Rate Cases, ante, p. 474, decided this day, ante,
p. 474. On finding, in the present cases, that the periods
selected for the purposes of test could not be regarded
as fairly representative, the court was left without sufficient data upon which to compute the extra cost of
intrastate transportation with such a degree of certainty
as would justify the annullment of the State's requirements. Controlling factors, used in the computations,
represent general estimates of the conditions of transportation, which may or may not be accurate, and there
was an absence of satisfactory evidence, to take the
place of the rejected tests, giving with requisite particularity the actual movement of traffic at the times in question and affording a proper basis for the determination of
relative cost. The wide variation in results obtained on
the different hypotheses, each of which is earnestly supported in argument, illustrates the necessity for the keeping of suitable accounts, at least during typical periods,
which will furnish correct statistical information bearing
upon the cost of intrastate transportation as compared
with interstate, instead of leawing a matter of such in-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

tricacy to general expressions of judgment. It was not
sufficient for the complainants to criticise the tests relied
upon by the defendants, but in. seeking to override the
action of the State upon constitutional grounds it was
incumbent upon them to establish the invalidating facts
by definite and convincing proof.
We are of the opinion that the evidence failed to show
confiscation.
The decrees are reversed and the cases remanded with
directions to dismiss the bills, respectively, without
prejudice.

