OCTOBER TER.Mv', 1912.
230 U. S.

Syllabus.

BOISE ARTESIAN. HOT AN)

COJ)

WATER CO.,

LIMITED, v. BOISE CITYi

BOISE CITY v. BOISE ARTESIAN HOT AND COLD
WATER CO., LIMITED.
ERROR TO THE.DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE ')IS

Nos. 573, pi39.

R CT OF: IDAHO.

Argued. May ., 8, 1913.-,Dcided June 16, 1913.

Where appellants' direct appeal to this court under § 5 of the Judiciary
Act of 1891 is taken on the clain-I that the ordinance on which the
Circuit Court based its decision is in contravention of the Consiitution of the; Uiited States, this 'curt has jurisdiction to review not
only the constitutional question but every other question properly
arising in the case including error assigned by the other party on
its cross writ for failure to allow its counterclaim under the contract.
Rights acquired under an ordinance granting the right to a water company to lay and maintain pipes in the streets is a substantial property right, wiih all the attributes of property; and the obligation of
the contract in, the, ordinance oil which it is based is protected against
impairment by the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States.
There is a presumption that investments of large amounts of capital
in a public utility enterprise will not be made'on a franchise for nec-.
essary use of the streets which is a mere license revocable at will.
Where there is no limitation in the general law of the State, nor in the
charter of the city, as to duration of franchises for public utilities in
the streets, the grant of an easement for that purpose, not specifying
a period of duration, is in perpetuity.
Quwrd whether the limitation of fifty years in § 2710, Rev. Stat., and
§ 2838, Rev.,Codes of Idaho, on grants to corporations applies to a
ranit made by a municipality to an individual and afterwards assigned to a corporation,
Where there is a limitation in the law of the State of duration for which
cdsements in streets can be granted by municipalities, an easement
granted for an indefinite pe'iod continues for the statutory period.
There is a distinction between a definite grant for a period longer than

IM)[SE WAT1741Ik CO. i,. l1,)ISi,, C.ITY;
230 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

the law of the State permits and an indefinite grant; while the former'
mnny be altogether void as an effort to obtain that which is illegal,
the latter is simply limited in duration to the period established by
law, and during that time it is protected from impairment by the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The municipal ordinance of a town in Idaho imposing additional obligations on a corporation holding by assignment an easement granted
by a former municipal ordinance within fifty years for use of the
streets.for water mains held an unconstitutional impairment of the
obligation of the contract of the former ordinance.
A municipality may not object to the State relieving a grantee of franehise rights from obligations formerly imposed by a general law (f
the State.
Municipal corporations are mere emanations from the State, exercising
such public power as the State chooses to grant.
A statutory provision that all water companies must furnish free water,
to the municipalities in Which they are situated does not constitute a
contract to which the municipalities are parties; it is within the
power of the State to relieve the water companies of the obligation
and permit them to furnish water at reasonable cost.
A water company under the laws of the State of Idaho is entitled to
compensation for water furnished and which it is ready to furnish
to the municipality, even if the report of commissioners fixin
reasonable rates in pursuance of the statute has not been adopted by
municipal ordinance.
A municipality, which continues to use water furnished by a water company after giving notice that,it Will pay no further hills for such
water, is not relieved by such notice from the obligation to pay
t,
herefor according to the reasonable, rates which have been fixed.
pursuant to statute.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the contract clause of the Federal Constitution of ar
ordinance of Boise City, Idaho, affecting a franchise for
using the streets of the city for water supply purposes
and the liabiity of the city for water supplied to it, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Richard H. Johnson, with whom Mr. Richard Z.

Johinson was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 57:3,
and defe( n(hnt in error in No. 639.

.("U l'RlTFRM, 1912.
Opinion of the

('ourt.

230 U. S.

Mr. Charles C. Cavanah and Mr. Charles F. Reddoch,
with whom Mr. John J. Blake and Mr. John F. Maclane
were on the brief, for defendant in error in No. 573 and
plaintiff in error in No. 639.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases come here from the District Court direci,
upon a writ of error sued out by the Water Company,
and a cross writ of error sued out by Boise City, the defendant below.
The Water Company is a corporation of West Virginia,
authorized to carry on its business in Idaho. It brought
this action to recover from the city, for water furnished
for fire purposes. The city defended upon several grounds,
only two being now urged. The first was that the Water
Company was under a statutory obligation to furnish
water for fire purposes free of charge; and the second,
that the city was under no legal obligation to pay, because
there was neither ordinance nor contract for the water
claimed to have been furnished.
By way of set-off or count&r-claim, it asserted the liability of the Water Company for a large sum of money,
claimed to be due on account *of monthly "license fees,"
which, by ordinance, it was required to pay for the use
of the streets of the city for laying and maintaining its
distributing water pipes. The Water Company denied
the validity of the ordinance imposing the "license fees"
claimed, asserting that by ordinance long prior in time,
its predecessor in right and title had been granted an
irrevocable easement in the streets for the purpose of
laying its pipes therein, and that the later ordinance
under which the city claimed the right to charge rental
for their use and occupation with its pipes, was an impairment of its vested street easement and in contravention of the Constitution of the 'United States.

BOISE WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court below ruled that the ordinance under which
the Water Company claimed its right to lay and maintain
its pipes in the streets of the city was a revocable license,
and that the requirement of the later ordinance that
it should thereafter pay monthly the sum of three hundred
dollars for the privilege of so occupying the streets with
its pipes was not an impairment of any contract and was
in every respect valid.
The foundation of the street rights asserted by the Water
Company is an ordinance of October 3, 1889, in these
words:
"An Ordinance Granting Eastman Brothers the Right to
Lay Water-pipes in Boise City.
"The Mayor and Common Council of Boise City,
Idaho, ordain:
"Section 1. H. B. Eastman, and B. M. Eastman and
their successors in interest in their water works, for the
supply of mountain water to the residents of 'Boise City
are hereby authorized to lay and repair their water-pipes,
in, through and along and across the streets and alleys
of Boise City, under the surface thereof , but they shall,
at all times, restore and leave all streets and alleys in,
through, along and across which they may lay such pipes
in as good condition as they shall find the same, and shall,
at, all times, promptly repair all damnage done by them or
their pipes, or by water escaping therefrom.
Section 2. This Ordinance shall take effect from and
after its passage and approval.
Approved October 3, 1889."
This was accepted and the grantees named therein
immediately began the construction of their plant. Later,
in July, 1890, similar street rights were granted to a corporation of Idaho known as the Artesian Water and Land
Improvement Company. This last named company accepted the ordinance and expended much money in the
construction of another water supply system. At some

OCTOBER TERM/r[, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

date prior to f895, apparently on March 28, 1891, each
of these grantees conveyed and assigned all of their rights,
franchises and easements to the present plaintiff in error.
It has since that time made large expenditures in improving the plant8 acquired from its predecessors, and
has since maintained its pipes in the streets and has continuously furnished water to the city for fire purposes and
to private consumers. The ordinance which is claimed
to be an impairment of the streot rights acquired bythe
ordinance of 1889 and long occupancy was passed on
June 7, 1906, and is in these words:
"An Ordinance requiring' the Boise Artesian Hot and
Cold Water Company, a private corporation, organized
and existing under and by virtue, of thelawsof the State
of West Virginia, to pay to Boise City, a municipal corporation of the State of Idah6, on :the -first day of each
aid every month, a monihly
f icepse of $300 for the use
and occupancy of the istreetsg and alleysOf said Boise Cit
Idaho,, Fi 'rfirnshing' water, to the residents. of said cy.
"Whereas, Boise City, iss municipal corporation organ-,
izedF anrd ' existing under and by virtue of t elaws of tbe

State.of 111 daho, and

"Whereas, the
iioise Artesian Hot dqCold WaterCom
pany, is a private corporation organized,,existipg, and.w
operatig under the laws of the *tate of West Virgi~i, qpt
Whereas, said Bise, ity, on the 3d day
Qctober,
1889, approved, an, ordinance grantipg toJIi Bof Eastman
and B. M. Eastman and their.successors in interet i.
their waterworks, a license f0r an indefinite p6riod to
lay ant repair water-pipes in tbe streets and alley,of
said Boise C , through which w, qr.qi§ heipg,
pnisbe4

payt te Tegaoents.f sad

'ityf IPrV

ff

and
"Whereas, the ~sad Boise Aresinnp 2ot ,and qo., 4
,

(Thp~in
ar th ~uc~soisin inteiestoft
Eastmanan'hd . M. E~astma n in
t
..

adU.B

BOISE WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
230 U. S-

Opinion of the Court.

"Now, therefore, Boise City does ordain as follows:
"Section 1. That the said Boise Artesian Hot and Cold
Water Company, a private corporation organized and
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
West Virginia, the suceessors in.
interest of the said H. 11.
Eastman and B. M. Eastman in and to said waterworks
now being operated and said license granted by said
ordinance of October 3, 1889, in said Boise City, are hereby
required to hereafter pay to said Boise City on the first
day of each and every month a monthly license of $30)
for the privilege granted by said ordinance of October 3,
1889, to lay, and repair water-pipes in the streets and
alleys of said city through which water is being furnished to the inhabitants of said Boise City by said Company.
"Section 2. That demand is hereby made by said Boise
City of and from said the Boise Artesian Hot and Cold
Water Company to hereafter pay to said Boise City on
the first day of each and every month said monthly license
of $300 required by Section 1 of this Ordinance.
"Section 3. That the City Clerk of said Boise City
is hereby required, after this ordinance is in force, to notify
said The Boise Artesian Hot & Cold Water Company
of the requirements of this ordinance to pay said license
as aforesaid.
"Section 4. That nothing in this ordinance shall be
construed or understood as granting any privilege or authority for any other term than that provided for in the
aforesaid Ordinance of October 3, 1889.
"Section 5. This Ordinance shall take effect and, go in:,
force from and after its passage and approval."
Upon the issues there was a judgment against the city
for the full amount claimed as due for water furnished,
for fire purposes, less the agreed amount of, he city's,
counter-claim, which, by direction of the court, was found
for it, being so Inuch of tlie claim for rentals as had ac-

OCTOBER r11'ERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

crued after April 1, 1909, and before the bringing of this
action.
The right of the Water Company to come direct to this
court is conferred by § 5 of the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, it being a case in which it was
"claimed" that the ordinance, imposing license fees, as a
law of the State, was in contravention of the Constitution
of the United States. Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179
U. S. 472, 477. This court has, therefore, jurisdiction to
review not only the constitutional question which arose
in the case, but every other question properly arising.
The City of Boise has assigned error upon the judgment
which was rendered against it upon the claim of the Water
Company for water furnished the city for fire purposes.
That it may do so upon its cross writ of error, is plain.
Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618.
The grant of the right to Jay water pipes upon the streets
for the purpose of distributing water, found in the ordinance of October 3, 1889, purports to be nothing more than
a grant of the right to occupy the streets of the city, with
the distributing pipes of the Water Company. It was
accepted and about $200,000 has been expended in the
construction of the necessary works and the laying of its
system of pipes mider the streets. The assertiont of the
right to require the company, after so many years of
occupation, to pay a monthly rental for tm
t
use of the
streets, is grounded upon the claim that under the grant
to the Eastmans ithad obtained nothing more than a
revocable license, and its occupation of the streets was,
therefore, subject to be terminated at any time.
The right which is acquired under an ordinance granting,
the right to a water company to lay and maintain its
pipes in the streets is a substantial property right. It has
all of the attributes of property. It is assignable and will
pass under a mortgage sale of the property and franchises
of the company which owned it. Dillon's Mun. Corp.,

BOISE WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

5th ed., § 1265; Detroit v. Detroit Street Railway, 184 U. S.
368, 395, 396; Louisville v. Cumberland Tel. & Tel. Co.,
224 U. S. 649, 661. Detroit Railway Co. v. City of Detroit,
64 Fed. Rep. 628. The grant was made in contemplation
of the investment of large capital in the construction of a
system of water works for the permanent supply of the
city with water. The presumption is that no such enterprise would have been entered upon if the street easement
was subject to immediate revocation. The city had the
express power to provide its inhabitants and itself with
water, under its legislative charter. It could not grant a
corporate franchise to a water company. Neither (lid it
undertake in this ordinance to enter into a contract for a
supply of water for public or private purposes. What it
undertook to do was to grant to those who proposed to construct and maintain works for that purpose the right to
"lay and repair" their distributing pipes along the streets
of the city. There is no limitation in the general law of the
State, nor in the charter of the city, as to the duration of a
contract granting an easement in the streets for that
purpose, unless it be found in § 2710, Revised Statutes
of Idaho, being § 2838, Revised Codes of Idaho. That
statute is in these words:
"SEc. 2710. No corporation formed to supply any city
or town with water must do so unless previously authorized
by an ordinance of the authorities thereof, or unless it is
done in conformity with a contract entered into between
the city or town and the corporation. Contracts, so maide
are valid and binding in law, but do not take from the
city or town the right to regulate the rates for water, nor
must any exclusive right be granted. No contract or
grant must be made for a term exceeding fifty years."
The original grant of street rights was assignable on its
face and was made to individuals. It was held ip the case
of Jack v. Village of Grangeville, 9 Idaho, 291, that the
section above set out applied only to corporations. A'

O( I'(BER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

later ordinance granted similar rights to a corporation.
The plaintiff in error has succeded to the rights of both.
The ordinance of June 7, 1906 imposes the rental charge,
called a "license fee," for the privilege granted by the
ordinance of October 3, 1889, which was the grant to the
Eastmans. But, if it be assumed that § 2710 limits the
term of any contract or grant with any water company,
corporate or otherwise, the most that can be said is, that
such a grant for an indefinite term is thereby limited to a
term of fifty years. There are cases which hold that when
by law a municipality is prohibited from entering into a
particular class of contracts, or from granting a fraichie
for a term longer than one specified, that a definite con.tract for a longer term than is permitted, is not effective
even for the shorter statutory term: Manhattan Trust Co.
v. City of Dayton, 59 Fed. Rep. 327. But this ordinance is
indefinite in duration, and there is a substantial distinction
between a contract which on its face shows a plain intent
to grant and obtain more than is legal and a contract for
an indefinite term. In the latter case the parties may be
assumed as intending to grant or acquire no longer term
than the law provides. The statute in the one case is
openly and purposely defied and in the other, the term
being indefinite, is limited by the statute. The distinction
was noted and observed by District Judge Rogers in the
case of Old Colony Trust Co. v. City of Wichita, 123 Fed.
Rep. 762, which case was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 132 Fed. Rep. 641; and by the Supreme Court of
New York, in People ex rel. Flatbush Gas Company v. Coler,
54 N. Y. Miscellaneous Rep. 21, a case reversed upon another point. 190 N. Y. 268.
For the purposes of this case we need go no further than
to hold, as we do, that the street easement was not a mere
revocable license, and that if limited in time by § 2710,
Revised Statutes of Idaho, that time had not expire(d
when the ordinance of 1896 was passed. The plain effect

BOISE WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of this later ordinance was to impair the obligation of the
contract resulting from the ordinahce conferring the street
easement, The court below erred, therefore, in instructing
the jury to allow the counter-claim.
Coming now to consider the errors assigned by Boise
City. Most of them have been withdrawn. Those which
have been relied upon are.First: That the court should have instructed a verdict
against the demand for water furnished for fire purposes,
because the Water Company was under a statutory
obligation to furnish water for such purposes to the city,
free of charge.
Second: That the city cannot be made liable for water
furnished for fire purposes in the absence of a preixisting
ordinance authorizing a contract for such a purpose.
The claim that the Water Company was under an obligation to furnish free water for fire purposes is rested upon
the provisions of § 2711, Revised Statutes of Idaho, which
provides that "all corporations formed to supply water to
cities or towns . . . must furnish water to the extent
of their means in case of fire or other great necessity, free
of charge." This section had no application to individuals
supplying water to cities and towns. Jack v. Village of
Gran qeville, 9 Idaho, 291. The original grant of street
rights was to the Eastmans, who were individuals, and
that easement was assigned in 1.891 to the present corporafion or its predecessors. In March, 1905, § 2711 was
aimended (and as amended is § 2839, Revised Codes of
Idaho), so as to omit the requirement of free water for
tire purposes by substituting the words, "and must also
furnish water to the extent of its means in ease of fire or
other great. necessity at reasonable rates established in
the manner hereinafter specified."
The city may not object to the change in the obligation
of the Water Company to supply free water. It was a
burden which had been imposed by the State under

O(Y.'OBER 1THRM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

general law, applicable to all water companies, imposed
solely for the benefit of the municipalities of theState.
Such municipalities are mere emanations from the State,
exercising such public power as the State chooses to grant.
If such a provision in the general law of the State providing
for the incorporation of water companies can be considered
in any sense as constituting a contract, it was one to which
the municipalities of the State were not parties, and we
can imagine no constitutional reason why the State might
not, if it sees fit, relieve even existing companies from the
burden of such a law. The provisions of the original
§ 2711. were taken from the California statutes, and were
held by the California courts not to impose any burden
upon such companies that could not be removed without
contravening the obligation of any contract within the
prohibition of the Constitution. Spring Valley Water Co.
v. San Francisco, 61 California, 18.
The "manner" of establishing reasonable rates is a
requirement in the same section that rates were to be
established by commissioners, two appointed by the city,
two -by the Water Company, and, in case of a disagreement, a fifth to be chosen by the-four. The section provides that "the decision of a majority thus selected must
fix and determine the rates to be charged for all the purposes heretofore specified for the ensuing three years from
the date of such decision, and until new rates are established
as herein provided." (Italics ours.) Revised Codes of
Idaho, vol. 1, § 2839.
Prior to furnishing the water for fire purposes which
constitutes the' demand sued upon in this case; the cominissioners provided for by the section above referred to
were appointed and they agreed upon a schedule of charges
for all purposes, whereby the charge for water for fire
purposes was fixed at $3,000 per annum for fire hydrants
"now in use and $3.50 monthly for such additional hydrants hereafter established."
This schedule of rates

BOISE WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was not changed or modified, so far as here appears, during
the period covered by the account of the Water Company in suit, and by the terms of § 2839, Revised Codes,
continued in force for three years "and until new rates
should be established." The claim that the plaintiff in
error, the Water Company, was under obligation to furnish free water, is wholly without merit.
The second defense was that there was no ordinance or
contract touching the furnishing of water for fire purposes,
and, therefore, the Water Company had no right of action.
The city, both under its charter and the general law of
the State, had power to obtain a water supply for both
general and fire purposes. Companies undertaking to
supply cities with water were required, when the claim
here involved arose, to furnish water at "reasonable
r'ates" to be. determined by commissioners. The city
joined in the appointment of the commissioners which
fixed the rates for fire purposes in the schedule agreed upon
in July, 1905. In August of the same year, the cbmmissioners filed a supplementary report defining the service to be
rendered in furnishing water for fire purposes, in which,
among others, were these conditions:
a. Hull's Gulch reservoir was to be kept filled with
water.
b. A steam pressure of not less than sixty pounds was
to be maintained at the boilers and pumps at the pumping
station.
c. A fire alarm system outside the city limits was to be
paid for, and maintained by the Water Company.
d. The plant to be kept at all times in condition for
effective service in case of fire, and frequent tests made of
the hydrants on the streets, defects discovered to be
reported to the mayor.
That this report and the schedule of rates and charges
were never adopted by the city council is of no moment.
They were reported to the city and were effective by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

terms of § 2839, Revised Codes of Idaho, when agreed' to
by a majority of the commissioners, for a term of three
years and until new rates should be established. From
August 1, 1905 to May 1, 1906, the city paid the monthly
rates fixed by the schedule, but from that date it refused
to pay and gave notice that it would pay no longer. But
there was evidence that the Water Company denied the
city's right to refuse to take water upon the notice given,
and continued to maintain its service and to furnish water,
and that the city continued to use the water for fire purposes.

The trial judge upon the legal effect of the continued use
of water by the city for fire purposes, charged the jury as
follows:
"If you find that the City, through the fire department,,
and with the knowledge of the responsible and governing
officers of the City, that is, the city council and the mayor,
continued to maintain these hydrants for fire purposes, and
from time to time as there was need continued to use the
water therefrom and required the company to connect its
mains with other hydrants there is some testimony to
the effect that eleven additional hydrants were installed
at the instance of the city, and connected with the Company's mains,-in other words if you find from all of the
evidence in the case that the City, through its responsible
officers, the city council and the mayor, continued to maintain these hydrants and use them as there was need, and
take water from the company's mains, the water company's
inains, as there was need therefor, if this was done knowingly, I say, then there arises by implication of law what
we call an implied contract on the part of the city to pay
for the water, and in this case an implied obligation to
pay in accordance with the schedule -rates. In other
words, the Water -Coimpany here stood in the position of a
merchant or other person having goods to sell, with the
prices thereof quoted. If you go and order an article with

BOISE WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

price so quoted you, do so with the implied agreement and
the obligation upon your part to pay for the article the
price at which it is offered for sale. So here the Water
Company stood in the position of having water for salefor culinary purposes, for use in business buildings, for
sprinkling lawns, and for fire purposes, and if a private
person took this water and used it he would do so with.the
implied understanding that he would pay for it at the rate
quoted, and, if the City took it, it took it with the implied
,understanding and imposed' obligation to pay for it in
accordance with the rates quoted.""
The notice the city gave on May 10, 1906 was at best
vague and indefinite. It was a notice "to discontinue the
extra pressure maintained for fire purposes, as the city
would pay no further bills for this service from this date.'
The Water Company responded that "they should continue to furnish the additional pressure of water for fire
purposes." No further action was taken by the city couni-,
cil subsequent to that date. But under the charge and the
verdict we must assume that the Water Company did
continue to maintain the pressure for fire purposes and to
comply with all of the other conditions imposed by the
supplementary report of the rate commissioners, and that
the city continued to use the fire hydrants supplied with
water by the Water Company. That the city paid no
more bills after May, 1906, is true. But if its notice meant
that it would no longer receive or use the company's
water for fire purposes, it said one thing and did the
other.
In view of the provisions of '§ 2839, Revised Codes of
Idaho, and the action of the city under the report of the
commissioners appointed by law to determine a reasonable
rate for water furnished for fire and other purposes, and
the conduct of the parties thereafter, there was evidence
jUstifying a finding by the jury of a contract to supply
water for fire purposes.
VOL. ccxxx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

230 U.S.

There was no error in the charge of the court set out
above, nor in any other part of the charge of which the
city can complain. Nor do we think the court erred in
denying the special charges asked by the city. Its several
assignments of error are overruled.
For the error in holding the ordinaice of June 7, 1906,
valid in law, and directing that from the amount found to
be due to the Water Company there should be deducted
the amount of the counterclaim of the city,
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded forfurther
proceedngs in accordancewith this opinion.

BOISE ARTESIAN HOT AND COLD WATER COMPANY, LIMITED, v. BOISE CITY. (NO. 2.)
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 313.

Argued May 7, 8,1913.-Deided June 16, 1913.

Where jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked wholly on diverse
citizenship but in the course of the case a constitutional question
arises, the unsuccessful party may bring the case direct to this court
under § 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891 or, at his election, he may carry
it to the Circuit Court of Appeals which may either certify the
question to this court or decide it.
The Judiciary Act of 1891 does not contemplate two reviews in cases in
which jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked wholly on diverse
citizenship even. as to the constitutional questions which may arise,
and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals deciding such a
case is final.
Writ of error to review 186 Fed. Rep. 705, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court of
appeals from the Circuit Court of Appeals under the
Judiciary Act of 1891, are stated in the opinion.

