OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. INTERNATIONAL" COAL MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 14.

Argued February 27, 28, 1912. Reargued November 4, 1912.Decided June 9, 1913.

Under the Act to Regulate Commerce while reasonableness of rates
and permissible discriminations based upon differences in eondit ions
are administrative matters for the Commission, the courts have
jurisdiction to determine whether differentials in rates can be allowed
for the same commodity under similar conditions of traffic, on
account of differences inthe disposition of the conmmodity.
A carrier can only charge the published rate for the same article and
when collected cannot pay back any part thereof under any pretense, however equitable, to any shipper or to every shipper; and
so held that carriers could not after the passage of the Iepburn Act
continue to give rebates to shippers pursuant to arrangements made
,prior to the act on.merchandise which the shippers had contracted to
sell before that time.
A published tariff, so long as it is in force, has the effect of a statute and
is binding alike on carrier and shipper.
While departure from a published tariff is forbidden by the Act to
Regulate Colimmerce and by §§ 7 and 8 thereof the carrier is liable
to the person injured for the damages sustained, such damnages must
be proved and are not to be merely measured by the difference between the published rate p~tid by the complaining shipper and the
lower rate given to a more favored shipper.
While they may be looked at to explain doubtful expressions in a
statute, not even formal reports, much less the language of a member
of the committee,can be resorted to for the purpose of construing a
statute contrary to its plain terms.
While the Act to Regulate Commerce is in many respects highly penal
there is no fixed measure of damages in favor of a shipper compelled
to pay the published tariff rate while his favored competitors are
given a lesser rate by means of rebates. ,Neither the American nor
English decisions are authority for such a rule as to the measure of
danmiges.
The Act to Regulate Commerce imposes on the carrier heavy penalties

PENNA. R. R. CO. v.iNTERNATI)NAL (
230 U. S.

( 0.
C(A

18;5

Statement of the Qasc.

for its violations payable to Govermnent and iudenlmidea of the
amount of rebates paid, and is thus a terror to evil docri; but, for
private wrongs by which private ijury is inflicted the coiopensation recoverable by the injured shipper is mcasurcd by the damages

actually sustained and proved.
173 Fed. Rep. 1, reversed.

THE International Coal Mining Company shipped in
interstate commerce 190,655 tons of coal over the Penn-.
sylvania Railroad between April 1, 1894, and April 1, 190 1.
.In 1904 it sued the carrier for $37,268, being the difference
between the rates paid by the plaintiff and lower rates
resulting from rebates allowed other coal dealers making
like shipments over the same road from the same point to
the same destination.
'rior to 1899 the carrier collected its open or published
rates from all persons shipping coal from the Clearfield
District in Pennsylvania. It, however, made a practice
of paying rebates, and the plaintiff admits on the face of
its complaint that it received rebates of from 10 to 25
cents per ton. It alleges, however, that other consignors
received from 15 to 45 cents per ton, and the claim made is
"for the further rebate due by the defendant to the plaintiff in excess of the rebates heretofore paid by the defendant to the plaintiff on account of said shipments."'
During the trial these claims for additional rebates on
shipments prior to 1889 were eliminated by the court.
The question then left in the case involved plaintiff's
right to recover on account of rebates having been allowed
other companies after April 1, 1899, on what was called
"contract coal." The plaintiff had no contracts which
overlapped April 1, 1899, and claimed to have learned
after January, 1904, of the allowances being made. It
thereupon brought -this suit for the rebate or difference
between the low rate allowed shippers of cont"act coal
and the lawful rate paid by plaintiff on 41,000 tons.
There was a second count in the complaint, alleging

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

230 U. S.

that the plaintiff charged excessive freight for the transportation of plaintiff's coal, in that it charged sums
varying from 15 cents per ton to 45 cents per ton in excess
of a reasonable charge, and said defendant "is liable to
pay said sum of $37,268.85 with interest thereon from thi
time of the said overpayments, and this suit is brought to
recover the said sums of money."
The plaintiff proved the number of tons in each shipment
made by it between April, 1899, and April, 1901, and that
it paid the full tariff rate thereon. It also proved that interstate shipments had been made by other coal companies
on the same dates from and to the same points and that
such companies on their "contract coal" had been paid
,rebates of 5, 10, 15, 25 or 35 cents per ton, depending upon
the difference between the rates when shipment was made
and those in force on the dates of the various contracts of
sale. It did not appear how many tons had been shipped
by any of these companies, nor on how many tons they
had been paid 5 cents per ton, or on how many 35 cents
per ton, or the intermediate figures. There was evidence
that the Berwind-White Company received no rebates on
90 per cent of its shipments, being free coal, but that it did
receive rebates on the remaining 10 per cent. which was
contract coal.
In addition to evidence as to the payment of such rebates, there was testimony that, the Railroad Co. had also
Made lateral and terminal allowances o some shippers
without at the same ine making lateral or terminal
allowances to the plaintiff. It was (lainied that these

allowances were unjust discrininations and amounted to

the payment of rebates, inasmuch as there was no such
dissimilarity in condition between shipments by such
companies and those made by the plaintiff as would
justify the payment to' them without maldng a similar
payment to the plaintiff.
The defendant admitted the difference in treatment, but

PENNA. R. 1. CO. v.IN'ERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

187

Statement of 'the Case.

claimed that it was justified by the difference in condition.
The railroad did not allow the plaintiff for services in
hauling loaded and empty cars between the railroad and
its nearby mine, but claimed that it paid the Altoona
Company 18 cents per ton for services in hauling loaded
and empty cars between the mine and the railroad station.
The carrier offered evidence to show that the Altoona
mine was 4 or 5 miles from the main line, which was
reached by a spur track or road having very heavy grades,
sharp curves, and three switchbacks, over which it was
impracticable for the Pennsylvania engines to be safely
operated. There was evidence that the anount paid the
Altoona Company for such hauling of cars was reasonable.
It was admitted also that the carrier paid the BerwindWhite Company, another shipper from the Clearfield
District, a terminal charge for furnishing at the New
York pier the labor, power and machinery to unload and
dump the cars. There was evidence that this was the customary charge allowed for such services in New York
harbor.
There was no distinct ruling as to these allowances, but
the court evidently treated these payments, not as undue
preferences or rebates, but as compensation for transportation services rendered by the shipper in hauling cars to
and from the mine and for service on the pier in New York.
He refused to charge that the jury could ,treat these initial
and terminal allowances as rebates or as unjust discriminations, or .that they could be c6nsidered in measuring the
damages to which plaintiff might be entitled.
The items prior to April 1, 1,899, and these items for
initial and terminal allowances having been eliminated, the
case was submitted to the jury to determine the amount
plaintiff was entitled to recover in consequen-e of the
admitted payment of rebates on "contract coal," no such

payments being malde to the plaintiff on its shipments of

OCTOBER TERM, '112.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

230 U. S.

"free coal." There was some evidence as to the coMmercial value of being able to ship. contract coal at the
original freight rate and an estimate of the profits which
would have been derived had the same rebates been
allowed plaintiff. What, if any, verdict could have been
based on this theory was not submitted to the jury, the
court charging that where rebates had been allowed other
companies, the plaintiff "would be entitled to recover
from the Railroad the difference of the returns."
On May 23i 1908, the jury found for the plaintiff a
v erdict of $12,013.51. Both parties moved for a new trial
and both excepted to the court's refusal to set aside the
verdict. -162 Fed. Rep. 996. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. 173 Fed. Rep. 1. The International Coal Company accepted the decision, But
t he Pennsylvania Railroad Company brought the ease here
by writ of error, in which, among many other assignments
of error, it complains of the court's refusal to charge that
"to entitle the plaintiff to recover, the jury must be
satisfied that it sustained some loss or injury due to the
fact that the defendant was carrying, at the same time, at
lower rates, coal shipped by other shippers."
Mr. Francis I. Gowen, with whom Mr. Frederic 'D.
McKenney was On the brief, for plaintiff in error:
In the light of the principles established in Tex. &
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, and
Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S.
481, an4 of the application made of those principles to
the facts in Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,
222 U. S. 506, the Circuit Court was not possessed
of the requisite jurisdiction to consider and determine
the underlying and basic issue involved in the present
case.
A court is not the proper tribunal to set aside or arinul
the tariff rates of a carrier. TI-is power belongs exclusively

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

189

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to the Interstate Commerce Commission, and it necessarily follows that courts cannot indirectly relieve shippers
from the controlling effect of such rates by permitting
recoveries either of any portion thereof or, what is equivalent thereto, of damages because of their exaction, until
at leasi the shipper has been relieved from the binding
force of such rates by action of the Commission, A
tariff rate is binding upon shipper as well as upon carrier.
The obligation to observe the same is absolute and is, in
effect, statutory in character.
The plaintiff in error in the present case, therefore, was
bound to charge and collect, and the defendant in error
was bound to pay, the rates which were actually charged
and paid. Both parties, then, being so bound, an action
cannot be maintained by one to recover from the other
damages claimed to have been sustained because of the
payment demanded and made, when this'payment represented a charge which the one party was legally obliged
to make and the other one legally obliged to pay. See
§ 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The Interstate Commerce Commission in many instances has condemned as unlawful, because unreasonable
or discriminatory, rates which have been exacted from,
shippers,\ while at the same time denying reparation to
them. Anaconda Copper Co. v. C. & E. R. R. Co., 19
I. C. C. Rep. 592, and International Salt Co. v. Penna.

R. R. Co., 20 I. C. C. Rep. 539.
If the Interstate Commerce Commission has been empowered to determine whether charges or rates of a varrier
are unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential, a like
power cannot be exercised -by the courts. As a matter of
law such power is possessed by the Interstate Commerce

Commission. Int. Com. Comm. v. Del., Lack. & West.
R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235:
The payment by a carrier to one shipper of an unlawful
rebate does not give to another shipper a right of action

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

230 U. S.

under the Interstate Commerce Act to recover like rebates
on his shipments.
Under §8 of Commerce Act which confers, and defines
the character of, the right of, action which can be asserted
by shippers because of violations by carriers of any provisions of the act, that right is limited to the "person or
persons injured," and the recovery to the "damages sustained." Parsons v. Chi. & N. W. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 447.
If a carrier' unlawfully refunds to a shipper any part
of the tariff rate, it thereby violates the Interstate Commerce Act, but such unlawful act cannot be made the
basis of an action at the instance of another shipper, the
purpose of which is to compel it to repeat its original
violation of the act, in order that such shipper may secure
also the benefit of a concession in rates which by the
terms of the act the carrier is prohibited from making,
and he from receiving. The same is true of cases under
the discrimination act of Pennsylvania. See Hoover v.
Penna. R. R. Co., 156 Pa. St. 220.
The "amount of injury suffered" is the measure of the
single damages to be allowed. But it does not at all follow
that the amount of injury suffered is the difference in the
rates charged. It might be or it might not be, but in any
event it must be a subject of proof, and there was no proof
in the case of the actual damage sustained. Un. Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Goodridge, 149 U. S. 680, distinguished, as that case
turned on the statute of Colorado which contained special
provisions to the effect that if the carrier made concessions
or rebates to shippers it must extend them to all shipping
under the same circumstances and conditions.
No damages are recoverable from a carrier which has
violated the provisions of the act by charging unequal
rates unless the shipper seeking the damages can establish
that actual injury resulted to him from such violation.
Anaconda Copper Co. v. C. & E. R. R. Co.; nt. Salt Co. v.
Penna. R. R. Co., supra.

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIOLAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

191

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

If the right of action asserted in the present case is
maintainable, it does not extend to all shipments made
by the defendant in error in the period in which the unlawful rebates were paid on contract coal, without regard
to the consideration that these rebates were not paid on
all shipments of the shippers shipping contract coal, but
only on the portion thereof which represented contract
coal.
This question has n6t been dealt with or determined
by any'court in this country. It was considered by the
.iEnglish courts in Denuby Colliery Co. v. Manchester &c.
Ry. Co., L. R. 11 App. Cas. 97, and while some of the court
were of the opinion that the amount of the overcharges
paid by the Colliery Company was to be ascertained with
reference to the volume of shipments which had been
carried at the lower rate, the application of such a rule
will not work out equitable results, nor tend to secure
an equality of charge.
A like service, within the meaning of § 2 of the Interstate Commerce Act, is not rendered by a carrier in the
transportation from the same district to a common point
of shipments which move over a through joint line made
up of its own line and that of another carrier, and shipments which move only over the carrier's own line. Railway Co. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 912; Tozer v. United
States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917; Parsons v. Chicago &c. Ry., 63
Fed. Rep. 903; Detroit Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 74
Fed. Rep. 803; Loup Colliery Co. v. Virginia Ry., 12 1. C.
C. Rep. 471; Cedar Rapids Ry. v. Chicago &c. Ry., 13
I. C. Q. Rep. 250, 255; Drinker on Int. Comm. Act, § 124;
Judson on Int. Comm., § 245.
To the same effect are: Beale & Wyman, Railroad Rate
Regulation, § 943; Nelson on Int. Com. Comm., p. 70;
Barnes on Int. Transp., § 428, paragraph D. See also
Griffee v. Railroad, 2I. C. C. Rep. 301; Missouri Ass'n
v. M., K. & T. Ry., 12 I. C. C. Rep. 483.

O( i _i)BE

TERM, 1912.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

230 U. S.

A like rule was followed by the English courts, in
Taylor v. Metropolitan Ry. Co. (1906), L. R. 2 K. B. Div.
55).

A Federal court is not bound to give effect to a judicial
sale made by a state court. "Itis at, liberty to ignore the
sale if, in its judgment, the state statutes under which
the state court proceeded to decree and make the sale
did not authorize a sale of the particular property or effect sold.
MTr. Tilliam A. Glasgow, Jr., with whom Mr. James
IV.M. Ncwlin was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The action was brought in the Circuit Court of the
Uniited States to recover sums illegally collected by the
(endiidat carrier from the plaintiff shipper, which sums
were declared to be illegal by § 2 of the Act to Regulate
( olunerce.

The defendant violated that section by charging and
,ollecting from the plaintiff a greater compensation for
the transportation of coal than it charged and collected
from other persons "for doing for . . . them a like
and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a
like kind of trafic under substantially similar circumst 'mces and conditions,"
Action was brought in the
irnit Court of the Inited States under § 9 of the act, to
recover the damages provided by § 8 for the charging of
the sums "declared to be unlawful" by § 2 of the act. The
plaintiff did not complain to the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
The jury rendered a verdict for an-amount equal to
the excess charges collected from the plaintiff over and
above the charges contemporaneously to other persos
for like service. Judgment was entered by the Circuit
Court upon the vetdict. The Circuit Court of Appeals
aflirnied the judgment, and the case is now here for review.

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO,
230 U. S.

198

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The plaintiff had the right to proceed with its action
in the Circuit Court without complaining to the Interstate Commerce Commission in the first instance.
A complaint to the Interstate Commerce Commission
in the first instance is only required under the Act to Regulate Commerce where "there is involved a question of
administrative discretion." L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Cook
Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70.
When it.is shown, as in this case, that § 2 of the act has
been violated by the carrier, then there is no "question of
administrative discretion" involved,. as there was in the
Abilene Cotton Oil Company Case, 204 U. S. 426, for § 2
of the act itself declares the carrier "guilty of unjust discrimination, which is hereby prohibited and declared to
be unlawful."
Section 2 defines "unjust discrimination," and unlike
§ 3, relieves the Interstate Commerce Commission from
the duty of determining in the exercise of its discretion
whether certain acts therein set forth amount to "unjust
discrimination," by declaring that unequal charges under
similar' circumstances is, as a matter of law, "unjust discrimination."
Under- § 2, every shipper is entitled "under similar circumstances and conditions" to equality of charges for like
service.
When the carrier violated the act by chargingplaintiff
"greater compensation" for like contemporaneous service
than it charged others, then the plaintiff was deprived
of its statutory right to equality of charges, by the "unlawful" act of defendant, and by § 8 plaintiff was entitled to recover "the full amount of damages sustained."
The measure of plaintiff's damages was such an amount
as would put plaintiff upon the basis of equality of charges
assured to it by § 2. See 1. C. C. v. B. & 0. R. Co., 145
U. S. 263, at page 270, quoting with approval, Mr. JusVOL. ccxxx-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

tice Blackburn, in Great Western Ry. Co. v. Sutton, L. R. 4
H. L. 226, 239, as follows: T'When it is sought to show that
the charge is extortionate, as being contrary to the statutory obligation to charge equally, it is immaterial whether
the charge is reasonable or not; it is enough to show that
the company carried for some other person or class of
persons at a lower charge during the period throughout
which the party complaining was charged more under the
like circumstances."
In the case of Great Western Ry. Co. v. Sutton, supra, at
p. 238, Mr. Justice Blackburn also said: "And I think it
follows from this that if the defendants do charge more
to one person than they during the same time charged
to others, the charge is by virtue of the statute extortionate."
In enacting § 2 of the Interstate Commerce Act, which
was substantially taken from § 90 of the English Railway
Clauses Consolidation Act of 1845, Congress intended to
incorporate into the statute the construction given to said
section by the English courts.. I. C. C. v. B. & 0. R. R.
Co., 145 U. S.263, at page 284; I. C. C. v. D., L. & W. R. R.
Co., 220 U. S. 235, at page 253.
If the excess charge to the plaintiff by the carrier was
extortionate, and deprived it of its statutory right, it is
submitted that at least the plaintiff is entitled to recover
the amount unlawfully extorted from it.
MR.JUSTICE LAMAR, after making tie foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The International Coal Company operated a mine in
the Clearfield District and, with its competitors, shipped
between 1890 and 1902 large quantities of coal in interstate
commerce. In 1904 it sued the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, basing its action, in part, on the fact that prior
to April 1, 1899, the Railroad Company had paid other

PENNA. R. R. CO.. . INTERNATIONAL COAL CO., 195
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shippers rebates of from i5 to 45 cents per ton, while
paying plaintiff a rebate of only 10 to 25 cents per ton.Its claim for a sum equal to the difference between the
rebate paid to it and that given other shippers was eliminated by the trial judge on the ground that "courts do
not sit to measure the difference in degree in violation
of the law in favor of one party or the other. The question
of the money value that each of then received in their
violation of the law will niot be looled into, . . . not
for the purpose of relieving the defendant, but because the
plaintiff is just as culpable
.
and as much a
violator of the law as the defendant,."
In view of this ruling, the case, a~s finally submitted to
the jury, involved plaintiff's right to recover on account
of shipments made after April 1,1899. On that date the
carrier increased the rates and discontinued the payment
of rebates, except that for the purpose of saving shippers
against loss, it made a difference between what is called
"free coal" and "contract coal." Under this practice,
where -coal had been sold for future delivery, the carrier
collected the published tariff rate, but rebated, the difference between it and the lower rate in force when the
contract of sale:had been made. When after April 1,
1899, the plaintiff applied for allowances, its demand
was rejected, with the statement that all its contract coal
would be protected in the same manner as others in the
Clearfield District. The International Coal Company
had no overlapping or unfulfilled contracts and claiming
that it did not learn of the practice to protect, such contracts until, in 1904, it brought this suit. It proved that
between April 1, 1899, and Api'il 1, 1901, it had shipped
about 40,000 tons on which it had paid the full tariff rate,
while other companies shipping from and to the same
-places at the same time had been allowed on their contract
coal rebates of 5, 10, 15, 25 or 35 cents per ton. Plaintiff
recovered a verdict.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

230 U. S.

1. In the court below the Railroad made no question of
jurisdiction. But on the argument here it insisted that
the case should be remanded with instructions to dismiss
the complaint upon the ground that courts had no power
to adjudicate the adninistrative question as to whether
a carrier could Jmake a difference in rate between shipments of free and contract coal. It argued that this was a
rate-making question and "thatit was for the Commission,
as the rate-regulating body, to determine not only whether
a dissimilarity existed, but whether the rates were properly
adjusted to meet that dissimilarity. .
Under the statute there are many acts of the carrier
which are lawful or unlawful according as they are reasonable or unreasonable, just or unjust. The determination of
such issues involves a comparison of rate with service,
and calls for an exercise of the discretion of the administrative and rate-regulating body. For the reasonableness
of rates, and the permissible discrimination based upon
difference in conditions are not matters of law. So far
as the determination depends upon facts, no jurisdiction
to pass upon the administrative questions involved has
been conferred upon the courts. That power has been
vested in a single body so s to secure uniformity and to
prevent the varying and sometimes conflicting results
that would flow from the different views of the same facts
that might be taken by different tribunals.None of these considerations, however, operates to
defeat the courts' jurisdiction in the present case. For
even if a difference in rates could be made between free
and contract c6al, none was made in the only way in which
it could have been lawfully done., The published tariffs
made no distinction between contract coal and free coal,
but named one rate for all alike. That being true, only
that single rate could be charged. When collected, it was
unlawful, under any pretense or for any cause, however
equitable or liberal, to pay a part back to one shipper or to

PENNA. R. R. CO. v, INTERNATIONAL COAL (O.
230 U. S.

197

Opinion of the Court.

every shipper. The tatut.e required the carrier to abide
absolutely by the tarif. It did not permit the Company
to decide that it had charged too much and then make a
corresponding rebate; nor could it claim that it had
charged too little and insist upon a larger sum being paid
by the shipper. (February 4, 1887, 24 Stat. 379, c. 104, §2;
March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855, c. 382, § 6. 4rmour Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56, 83.) The tariff, so long as it
was of force, was, in this respect, to be treated as though
it had been a statute, binding as such upon Railroad and
shipper alike. If, as a fact, the rates were unreasonable
the shipper was nevertheless bound to pay and the carrier
to retain what had been paid, leaving, however, to .the
former the right to apply to the Commission for reparation.
In view of this imperative obligation to charge, collect
and retain the sum named in the tariff, there was no
call for the exercise of the rate-regulating discretion of the
administrative body to decide whether the carrier could
make a difference in rates between free and contract coal.
For whether it could do so or not, the refund of any part of
the tariff rate collected was unlawful. It could not have
been legalized by any proof, nor could the Commission by
any order have made it valid. The rebate being unlawful
it was a matter where the court, without administrative
ruling or reparation order, could apply the fixed law to the
established fact that the carrier had charged all shippers
the published or tariff rate and refunded a part to a particular class. This departure from the published tariff was
forbidden, and § 8 (24 Stat. 382) expressly provided that
any carrier doing any act prohibited by the statute should
be "liable to the person injured thereby for the full amount
of damages sustained in consequence of any such violation,
together with reasonable attorneys' fees."
2. But although this suit was brought to enforce a
cause of action given by this section to any person injured, it is a noticeable fact that in its pleading the plain-

OCTORR TENM., 1412,
Opinion of the Court.

230 U.&.z

tiff does not claim to have been damaged and tfiere il
neither allegation nor proof that it suffered any injury,
It contends, however, that this was not necessary for the
reason that, as matter of law, it was entitled to recover as
damages the same rate per ton on all plaintiff's shipments
as had been rebated any other person,, on any of his tonnage, shipped at the same time over the same route. And
such a right of action was expressly given in § 2 of the
original Bill to Regulate Commerce, which, as it passed
the Senate May 12, 1886, did provide that the carrier
"shall be liable to all persons who have been charged a
higher rate than was charged any other person or persons
for the difference between such higher rate and the lowest
rate charged upon like shipments during the same period;
or if such lower rate was made on any time contract or
understanding, the said common carrier shall be liable to
pay a like rebate or drawback to all other shippers over
the same route between the same points who have shipped
goods during the, time that such contract or understanding
was in operation."
The fact that this provision measuring the amount
of recovery by rebate was omitted from the Act, as finally
reported to both Houses and passed, is not only significant, but so conclusive against the con ention of the
plaintiff that it quotes-not the report of the conferepnce
committee-but a statement,' made by A,member of
Mr. Cullom. Before action on my motion, I desire Wn
make a statement of the changes in the biU. The following is a statement of the
changes in the bill as passed by the Senate which have been agreed to
and are recommended by the committee of conference.
"Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Senate bill, prohibiting discriminations,
contained provisions in relation to the recovery, of. damages. These
have been stricken out of said sections, and have been grouped together in one section, which is made section 8 of the committee.bill.
Except as to this rearrangement, substantially the only change made
has been the tiddition of the provision of the House bill that 'a reason-

PENNA. R. R. (0. v.INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

199

Opinion of the Court.

the Senate Conference Conunittee, to support the present
argument that § 8 means the same thing as the omitted
clause. But while they may be looked at to explain doubtful expressions, not even formal reports-much less the
language of a member of a Committee-can be resorted
to for the purpose of construing a statute contrary to its
plain terms, Ior to make identical that which is radically
different. United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S.
290, 318; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581, 601. Section 2
of the original Senate Bill said nothing about damages
but in case of rebating gave a shipper a right, in the nature
of an action, for a penalty to be measured by the difference
between the lawful and the unlawful rate, whether damage
resulted or not. That provision was stricken out and § 8 of
the Act, as passed by both Houses of Congress and approved by the President, gave a right of action for damages
and attorneys' fees to "the person injured"-and, of
course, to the extent of the injury.
3. There were many provisions in the statute for
able counsel or atto rney's fee' shall be allowed by the court in every
case of the recovery of damages. The parts of said sections which are
stricken out in consequence of the rearrangement referred to are all of
section 2 after the word 'unlawful,' in line 13, all of section 3 after the
word 'business,' in line 18, and lines 23 to 27, both inclusive, in section4. No other change is made in section 2." 49 Cong. Rec. 2d Sess.,
vol. 18, Part 1, p. 170.
.Section 7 of the House Bill (H. R. 5667) provided that if any carrier
should do an act forbidden or omitted to do an act required, or should
violate the statute, such carrier should be "held to pay to the person or
persons injured the full amount of damages so sustained . . . with
reasonable counsel or attorney's fees....
." This bill was before
the Conference Committee, and the House members, as required by the
rules of the Ifouse, made a written statement of the action of the Conference, in which it was said (vol. 18, Part II, Cong. Rec., 49th Cong.,
2d Sess., pp. 695, 698, 774) that "the eighth section of the substitute
bill"-being the eighth section of the Present act-" contains the sub:
stance of the seventh section of the House Bill in regard to damages
and counsel fees but expressed in somewhat different language."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

imprisonment and fines. On the ,iivil side the Act provided for compensation-not punishment. Though the
Act has been held to be in many respects highly penal, yet
there was no fixed measure of damage in favor of the plaintiff. But, as said in Parsonsv. Chicago & N. W. Railway,
167 U. S. 447, 460, construing this section (8) "beforoany
party can recover under the act he must show not merely
the wrong of the carrier, but that that wrong has in fact
operated to his injury." Congress had not then and'has
not since given any indication of an intent that persons
not injured might, nevertheless, recover what though
called damages- would really be a penalty, in addition to
the penalty payable to the Government. On the contrary,
and in answer to the argument that damages might be a
'cover for rebates, the act of June 18, 1910 (36 Stat. 539,
c. 309), provided that where a carrier misquotes a rate it
should pay a penalty of $250, not to the shipper, but to the
Government, recoverable by a civil action brought by
the United States. 35 Stat. 166. Congressional Record
(1910), 7569. The danger that payment of damages for
violations of the law might be used as a means of paying
rebates under the name of damages is also pointed out by
the Commission in 12 I. C. C. 418-421, 423; 14 I. C. C. 82.
4. It is said, however, that it is impossible to prove the
damages occasioned one shipper by the payment of rebates to another; and that if the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover as damages the same drawback that was paid
to its competitor, the statute not only gives no remedy
but deprives the plaintiff of a right it had at common law
to recover this difference between the lawful and the unlawful rate.
We are cited to no authority which shows that there
was any such ancient measure of damages, and no case
has been found in which damages were awarded for such
discrimination. Indeed, it is exceedingly doubtf ul whether
there was at common law any-right of action for any sort

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U.S.

201

Opinion of the Court.

of damages in a case like this, while this statute does give
a clear, definite and positive right to recover for unjust
discrimination. It thereby either first created the right
or removed the doubt as to whether such suit could be
brought. The English courts had held that a shipper, who
paid a reasonable rate; had no cause of action because the
carrier had charged a lower rate to another. Great Western
R. R. v. Sutton, L. R. 4 H. L. 226, 238. The American
decisions were conflicting, though "the weight of authority in this country was in favor of an equality of charge to
all persons for similar services." I. C. C. v. B. & 0., 145
U. S. 263, 275. But even in those American courts, which
held that the rates must not only be reasonable but equal,
the doctrine had not been so far developed as to settle
what was the measure of damages. Hays"v. Pennsylvania
Co., 12 Fed. Rep. 309, decided at Circuit, is favorable to
pl intiff's contention. But Union PacificRy. v. Goodridge,
149 U. S. 680; Louisville E. & St. L. R. R. v. Wilson, 132
Indiana, 517; Messenger v. R. R,'8 Vroom, 37 N. J. L.
531; Cook v. Chicago &c. Ry., 81 Iowa, 551; Great Western
Ry. v. Sutton, L. R. 4 H. L. 226;, London &c. By. v. Evershed, 3 App. Cas. 1029; Denaby v. Manchester &c. Ry., 11
App. Cas. 97, relied on by plaintiff, do not support the
proposition that damages can be recovered without proof
of what pecuniary loss had been suffered as a result of the
discrimination.
In one of these cases the suit was brought by a shipper
to recover damages because the railroad refused to carry
out a contract to discriminate in his favor. In others the
court treated the low rate as evidence of what was a
reasonable rate and; thereupon gave judgment for damages
as for an overcharge. Union Pacific R. R. v. Goodridge,
149 U. S. 680, 709, involved the construction of the
Colorado statute, which did not, as does the Commerce
Act, compel the carrier to adhere to published rates, but
required the railroad to make the same concessions an&,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

drawbacks to all persons alike, and for a failure to do so
made the carrier liable for three times the actual damage
sustained or overcharges paid by the party aggrieved.
This distinction is also to be noted in the English cases
cited. The Act of Parliament did not require the carrier
to maintain its published tariff but made the lowest rate
the lawful rate. Anything in excess of such lowest rate
was extortion and might be recovered in an action at law
as for an overcharge. Denaby v. Manchester Ry., L. R. 11
App. Cases, 97, 116. But the English courts make a clear
distinction between overcharge and damages, and the
same is true under the Commerce Act. For if the plaintiff
here had been required to pay more than the tariff rate
it could have recovered the excess, not as damages but
as overcharge, and while one count of the complaint
asserted a claim of this nature, the proof did not justify a
verdict thereon, for the plaintiff admitted that it had only
paid the lawful rates named in the tariff. Of course, no
part of such payment of lawful rates can be treated as an
overcharge or as an extortion.
Having paid only the lawful rate plaintiff was not overcharged, though the favored shipper was illegally undercharged. For that violation of law, the carrier was subject to the payment of a fine to the Government and, in
addition, was liable for all damages it thereby occasioned,
the plaintiff or any other shipper, But under § 8, it was
only liable for damages. Making an illegal undercharge
to one shipper did not license the carrier to make a similar
undercharge to other shippers, and if having paid a rebate
of 25 cents a ton to one customer, the carrier in order to
scape this suit had made a similar undercharge or rebate
to the plaintiff, it would have been criminally liable, even
though it may have been done in order to equalize the
two companies. For, under the statute, it was not liable
to the plaintiff for the amount of the rebate paid on contract coal, but only for the damages such illegal payment

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

203

Opinion of the Court.

caused the plaintiff. The measure of damages was the
pecuniary loss inflicted on the plaintiff as the result of the
rebate paid. Those damages might be the same as the
rebate, or less than the rebate, or many times greater than
the rebate; but unless they were proved they could not
be recovered. Whatever they were they could be recovered, because § 8 expressly declaies that wherever the
carrier did an act prohibited or failed to do any act required, it should be "liable to the person injured thereby for
the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of such
violation, . . . together with reasonable attorney's fee."
In view of this language it becomes necessary to inquire
what the .evidence shows was the injury inflicted or the'
damage sustained by the plaintiff in 1901 in consequence of
paying rebates in 1901 on contract coal sold in 1899.
5. On various dates between April 1, 1899, and April 1,
1901, the International Company made shipments of coal
from the Clearfield District to points in New Jersey, Massachusetts, and New York, its heaviest shipments being
to South Amboy, New York Harbor. The aggregate was
40,000 tons, on which the lawful rate was paid. During
the same period four other companies shipped to the same
points, receiving rebates of from 5 to 35 cents per ton, but
the amount of tonnage on which such rebates were paid
does not appear. There was no proof of injiury-no proof
of decrease in business, loss of profits, expense incurred or
damage of any sort suffered-the plaintiff claiming that,
as matter of law, the damages should be assessed to it on
the basis of giving to it the same rate, on all its tonnage,
that had been allowed on any contract coal shipped, on
the same dates, whether such tonnage was great or small.
Considering the multitude of instances in which discrimination has been practiced by carriers, in ancient and
modern times, it is remarkable how little is to be found in
decisions or text books which treat of the elements and
measure of damages in such cases. In the absence of any

OCTOBE P TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

settled rule on the subject, the new question must be determined on general principles.
The statute gives a right of action for damages to the
injured party, and by the use of these legal terms clearly
indicated that the damages recoverable were those known
to the law and intended as compensation for the injury
sustained. It is elementary that in a suit at law both the
fact and the amount of the damage must be proved. And
although the plaintiff insists that in all cases like this the
fact and amount. of the pecuniary loss is matter of law,
yet this contention is not sustained by the language of the
act, nor is it well founded in actual experience, as will appear by considering several usual and every-day instances
suggested by testimony in this record. For example:If plaintiff and one of the favored companies had both
shipped coal to the same market on the same day, the
rebate on contract coal niay have given an advantage
which may have prevented the plaintiff from selling, may
.have directly caused it expense, or may have diminished
or totally destroyed its profits. The plaintiff, under the
present statute, in any such case being then entitled to
recover the full damages sustained;But the plaintiff may have sold at the usual profit all
or a part of its 40,000 tons at the regular market price, the
purchaser, on his own account, paying freight to the point
of delivery. In that event not the shipper but the purchaser, who paid the freight, would have been the person
injured, if any damage resulted from giving rebates. To
say that seller and buyer, shipper and consignee, could
both recover would mean that damages had been awarded
to two where only one had suffered;-Or, to take another example-a favored dealer may
have shipped 10,000 tons of coal to the open New York
market, receiving thereon a rebate of 35 cents a ton, or
$3,500. The plaintiff at the same time may have shipped
20,000 tons and sold the same at the regular market price.

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

205

Opinion of the Court.

Under the rule contended for it would then be entitled to
35 cents a ton on 20,000 tons, or $7,000 as damages. Such
a verdict, instead of compensating it for losses sustained,
would have given to the plaintiff a profit on the carrier's
crime in paying a rebate of $3,500 and would have made
it an adyantage to it instead of an injury for the carrier to
violate the law.
In order to avoid this anomalous, yet logical, result it is
now suggested that, as in the overcharge cases (Denaby v.
Manchester Ry., -L. R. 11 App. Cases, 97), the plaintiff
should only recover a rebate on 10,000 tons, or on the same
weight upon which the carrier had allowed a drawback to
the competitor. But, while less drastic, this is still an
arbitrary measure and ignores the fact that the .same
anomalous result would follow if there had been, say, ten
dealers, each shipping 10,000 tons on the same day. For
each of the ten would have been as much entitled as plaintiff to recover $3,500 on their several shipments of 10,000
tons, and the ten verdicts would aggregate $35,000, because of the payment of $3,500 to the favored shipper.
It is said, however, that while there may be no presumption that a shipper was injured because the carrier paid a
rebate on a single shipment, or on an occasional shipment,
yet it could recover if rebates had been so habitually given
as to establish a practice of discrimination. Jroof that
rebates were customarily paid, would come nearer showing that injury was suffered but would still fall short of
proving the extent of the damage, and is not the theory
on which the plaintiff proceeds. For it argues that whenever it showed that a lower rate had been charged on con-

tract coal sold in 1899 it was entitled to recover the same
rate on shipments made by it to thesame place on the
same day in 1901, even though there had been no competition in the Iwo sales and without p'oof that there had
been any fall ia'market prices, dimllilutiOnl in its profits,

decrease in its business, or, increase-in its expenses.

It

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

claimed that it was a mere matter of mathematics and
that for every rebate on contract coal, plaintiff was entitled to a like reduction on every ton of its coal without
further proof of damage or injury.
6. To adopt such a rule and arbitrarily measure damages by rebates would create a legalized, but endless,
chain of departures from the tariff; would extend the effect
of the original crime, would destroy the equality and certainty of rates, and, contrary to the statute, would make
the carrier liable for damages beyond those inflicted and
to persons not injured. The limitation of liability to the
persons damaged and to an amount equal to the injury
suffered is not out of consideration for the carrier who has
violated the statute. On the contrary, the act imposes
heavy penalties, independent of the amount of rebate
paid, and as each shipment constitutes a separate offense,
the law in its measure of fine and punishment is a terror
to evil doers. But for the public wrong and for the interference with the equal current of commerce these penalties
or fines were made payable to the Government. If by
the same act a private injury was inflicted a private right
of action was given. But the public wrong did not necessarily cause private damage, and when it did, the pecuniary loss varied with the character of the property, the
circumstances of the shipment and the state of the market,
so that instead of giving the shipper the right to recover
a penalty fixed in amount or measure, the statute made
the guilty carrier liable for the full amount of damages
sustained,-whatever they might be and whether greater
or less than the rate of rebate paid.
7. This conclusion, that the right to recover is limited
to the pecuniary loss suffered and proved, is demanded by
the language of the statute, the construction put upon it
years ago in the Parsons Case, and is the view taken in
the only other case we find in which this question, under
the Act to Regulate Commerce, has been construcd. In

PENNA. R. I.
230 U. S.

CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO. 207
Opinion of the Court.

Knudsen v. Michigan Central R. R., 148 Fed. Rep. 968,
974, it was said by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit that to "support a recovery under this
section there must be a showing of some specific pecuniary
injury. A cause of action does not necessarily arise from
those acts or omissions of a common carrier that may subject it to a criminal prosecution by the Government or to
corrective or coercive proceedings at the instance of the
Commission." A similar principle was applied in Meeker
v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 183 Fed. Rep. 548, 550, and in
Central Coal Co. v. Hartman, 111 Fed. Rep. 96, where the
suit was to recover damages caused by a violation of the
Anti-trust Act.
Another case, on facts quite like those here involved, is
that of Hoover v. Pennsylvania R. R., 156 Pa. St. 220,
where the statute, like the Commerce Act, gave the party
injured a right of action for damages suffered. In violation of the state law the railroad allowed a manufacturing
company a rebate of 20 cents a ton on coal shipped. In
a suit for the recovery of damages the trial court charged
the jury that the difference between the high and low rate
was the measure of recovery. This was reversed, the
court saying (p. 244): "The amount of injury suffered is
the measure of the single damages to be allowed. But it
does not at all follow that the amount of injury suffered is
the difference in the rates charged. It might be, or it
might not be, but, in any event, it must be a subject of
proof.

.

.

. It does not appear that the plaintiffs

sold their coal for any less than the current market
price,

.

.

.

except when they and the other dealers

were engaged in a war of prices and sold it far below the
actual cost, in a struggle to capture the market."
In view of the express provisions of § 8 of the Act to
Regulate Commerce, it was error to refuse to charge that
"to entitle the plaintiff to i'ecover, the jury must be satisfied that it sustained some loss or injury due to the fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

that the defendant was carrying at the same time at lower
rates coal shipped by other shippers." The judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the case remanded to the District Court, with directions to grant a
new trial.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

PITNEY, dissenting.

The judgment under review sustains a recovery in
behalf of a Company shipping coal in interstate commerce,
that was charged and paid the lawful published rates of
freight, for the difference between the rates thus charged
and paid and the less rates customarily allowed to other
shippers of coal during the same period and between the
same termini. 173 Fed. Rep. 1. The action is based upon
§§ 2 and 8 of the Interstate Commerce Act.' (24 Stat.
SSnc.-2.

That if any common carrier subject to the provisions of this

act shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback,
or other device, charge, demand, collect, or receive from any person
or persons,'a greater or less compensation for any service rendered, or
to be rendered, in the transportation of passengers or property, subject to the provisions of this act, than it charges, -.emands, collects, or
receives from any other person or persons for doing for him or them a
like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of
traffic under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, such
common carrier shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination, which
is hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
SEC. 8. That in case any common carrier subject to the provisions
of this act shall do, cause to be done, or permit to be done any act,
matter, or thing in this act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, or
shall omit to do any act, matter, or thiig in this act required to be done,
such common carrier shall be liable to the person or persons injured
thereby for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of an '
such violation of the provisions of this act, togetheo with a reasonable
counsel or attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court in every case of recovery, which attorney's fee shall be taxed and collected as part of the
costs in the case.

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTE NATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

209

PITNEY, J,, dissenting.

379, Chap. 104.) The discrimination was accomplished
by, means of rebates allowed to the other shippers, the
excuse for which, or the reason for the discrimination as
assigned by the plaintiff in error, was that the coal on
which the rebates were allowed was shipped pursuant
to contracts of sale made by the favored shippers prior
to the putting in force of the published tariff, and made
in reliance upon the lower rates then in force. It was
proved that during the two years from April 1, 1899,
to April 1, 1901, the plaintiff shipped about 40,000 tons,
upon which it paid the full tariff rate. The verdict and
judgment for $12,013.51 represent the difference between
the freight charges actually paid by the plaintiff and
what it would have paid if its coal had been carried on
the same terms as the "contract coal."
I agree with the view of the court that the suit was
maintainable without any previous action by the Interstate Commerce Commission. I agree also that "even
if a difference in rates could be made between free and
contract coal, none was made in the only way in which
it could have been lawfully done. The published tariffs
made no distinction between contract coal and free coal,
but named one rate for all alike. That being true, only
that single rate could be charged."
Were the question before us, I should be inclined to
say that the Interstate Commerce Act does not admit
of a difference in rate for substantially the same transportation service, at the same time and under substantially
similar circumstances, based upon the mere fact that the
coal of one shipper has been previously sold, under "contract" or otherwise, while the coal of the other shipper has
been sold but at a different time, or remains to be sold
on its arrival at market. Such a discrimination is in
effect based upon the mere ownership of the goods transported, which has recently been condemned by this court.
Interstate Coin. Com. v. Del., Lack. & Western R. R., 220
Von. ccxxx--714

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

U. S. 235, 252. And see New H1aven R. R. v. Interstate
Com. Com., 200 U. S. 361, 395; Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56, 82.
The court, while sustaining the right of action upon the
facts presented in this record, reverses the judgment
and awards a new trial, on the ground that under the
statute there is no presumption of loss on the part of the
shipper against whom the discrimination is made, and
therefore no established measure of damages in favor
of the plaintiff; that § 8 of the Act, in giving a right of
action for damages to the injured party, indicated the
legislative intent that the responsibility of the carrier
to a shipper injured by discrimination in rates should be
measured not by the amount of the discrimination, but
by the consequential injury accruing to the shipper because of the discrimination, and that without special proof
of resulting damage there can be no recovery.
With great respect, I feel constrained to dissent from
the view thus taken of the Act of Congress, and from the
result to which it leads in this case.
I have not been able to bring myself to accept that
view, and, on the contrary, consider that § 2 of the act
deals with the prohibited discriminatfon in rates as a
direct pecuniary injury to the disfavored shipper, precisely equivalent in amount to the*discrimination; that
the Act looks upon the common carrier as a public servant, bound to treat all shippers alike; that it recognizes
that the established and published rates, while reasonable
in law may be unreasonable in fact, and are proven to be
so when the carrier customarily charges less to favored
shippers; that it tifeats the customary allowance to favored
shippers of rebates or drawbacks as an admission by the
carrier that the higher rate charged to the disfavored
shipper is excessive and extortionate in fact by precisely
the amount of the rebate; that the disfavored shipper
is the "person injured," within the meaning of § 8, and

PENNA.
) U. S.

IR.

O. v, INTERNATIONAL COAL CO. 211
PITIN,

J., dissenting.

!"hat the r'(duages sustained in consequence of any such
violation" are, in cases of rate discrimination, at least
as great. 1: the amount of the discrimination; that the
maintaining of equality in rates being the duty of the
puiblic serv ant as prescribed by the Act, the question
-whether tbe ;:hiupper, on paying such rates as the law preeribes, charges the frAght to his consignees, directly, or
indirectly, or not at all, is a matter of no legitimate conc~rn to thce public servant. I am convinced further, as
the result of a somewhat exhaustive examination of the
question, that the view just indicated is not only con;i+tent witl the language and evident policy of the Act,
viewed in the light of the evils that it was designed to
correct, but is consistent with its legislative history, and
at the same time accords with the practical construction
.siat has been placed upon it by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and recognized by the courts (including
this court) from the time of its enactment; that no other
practicable mode of determining the damages, capable
of general application, has been suggested for cases of
rate discrimination than that which measures the recovery
by the amount of the discrimination; and that this was
the well-settled measure of damages in such cases, as
administered generally in the courts of this country
prior to the passage of the Act, and at the same time was
the established rule of damages under the Act of Parliament upon which our § 2 was modeled, as already established by repeated decisions of the House of Lords when
Congress passed the "Act to Regulate Commerce";
and that the English decisions are cogent evidence of
the intent and meaning of Congress, as this court has
several times declared.
The precise error attributed to the trial judge is the
refusal to charge, as requested, that "To entitle the plaintiff to recover, the jury must be satisfied that it sustained
teime loss or injury due to the fact that the defendant was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PinmY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

carr ying at the same time, at lower rates, coal shipped
by other shippers."
Since the recovery was based upon a -discrimination
arising from the payment of rebates to the other shippers
on coal shipped by them in fulfillment of contracts made
long before, so that the coal upon which the rebates.were
allowed did not and could not come into direct competition
with the plaintiff's coal in the market, it is presumable
that there was no consequential injury to the plaintiff
attributable to this particular series of rebates, nor any
provable injury aside from the fact that more money was
exacted from plaintiff than ought to have been exacted
on principles of equality' A reversal of the judgment
upon the ground adopted by the court is equivalent to a
denial of the right of action in this case, and apparently
in all cases except in the rare instance where merchandise
on which rebates are allowed happens to come into direct
market competition with the goods of the complaining
shipper.
Not only in the present case, but in most cases, it is
impossible to trace actual consequential damages to the
particular discrimination, and so the view adopted
virtually nullifies the right of action given by § 8 of the
Act, so far as concerns persons injured by the discriminations that are prohibited by § 2.
Section 8 says in terms that for anything done by the
common carrier, contrary to the prbhibition of the Act, it
shall be "liable to the person or persons injured thereby
for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence
of any such violation." Each of the preceding seven
sections contains prohibitions, from the violation of which
damagemay result to the shipper; especially the first four,
of which § I prohibits unjust and unreasonable charges;
§ 2 prohibits discriminations in charges, by whatever
device accomplished; § 3 prohibits "any undue and unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular

PENNA, Rl. R.
230 U. S.

NTRNATIONAl,
T. R.
COAL (JO.
PINN1Y,

213

J., dissenting.

person, etc., in any respeet wht

tsoever;" and requires that

reasonably proper and equal facilities be afforded for the
interchange of traffic with connecting lines; and § 4 prohibits the charging of greater compensation under substantially similar circumstances and conditions for a
shorter than for a longer distance over the same line iii
the same direction, the shorter being included within the
longer distance; with a proviso not now pertinent. Certainly, the Act contemplated that shippers against whom
these discriminations were practiced, and for whose
benefit the entire Act was framed, were to be treated as
"persons injured" within the meaning of § 8. And by
that section they are to have the "full amount of damages
sustained in consequence of any such violation."
The word "damages," according to its customary
usage, is at least as properly applicable to the immediate
and direct result of imposing higher charges upon one
shipper than are customarily charged under similar circumstances and for a like service to other shippers, as it is
to the ultimate consequences, of such discrimination. The
purpose that runs throughout the Act is to require equality
of treatment. How can this be so easily accomplished
as to treat the damage as being complete when the freight
bill is paid, based upon rates that are higher than those
charged to other shippers, and to require equality by
insisting upon a return of the excess?
Courts everywhere are insistent that remote and consequential and speculative damages shall be excluded
from consideration, and that only those directly and
proximately resulting from the injury shall be considered.
What can be more direct and proximate as damage to a
sbipper against whom a discrimination is practiced, than
the measure of the discrimination as shown by a comparison of freight bills? And what can be more reiaote and
speculative than to enter into considerations arising out
of the mode in which the shipper trans'acts his business,

OCTOBER
IITNEY,

'ERI\MI t912,
J., dissc0 (ing.

230 U. S.

and to consider whether the particular commodities upon
which the discriminatory rates h yve been imposed were
sold Under this or that arrangernuot as between shipper
and consignee, and whether thv' discriminations have
resulted in the loss of a particulaxu sale, or of a particular
profit, or of a particular customer' Congress, of course,
recognized the notorious fact Qhcat, rate discriminations
often rendered it impossible for the disfavored shippers to
profitably .continue in business, Rate discrininiations
were prohibited for that reason , amongst others. But
Congress, I submit, never int, ted to impose upon the
of tracing his ultianite
injured party the impossible t.,
losses to this or to that shipment,
But it is said that whatever viw might otherwise be
entertained, a particular (and, as t think, a very strained)
meaning must be attributed to The word "damnages' as
used in the Interstate Commerce Act, because of the course
of proceedings in Congmless that resulted in the enactment
of that statute. It is pointed out. that § 2 of the original
bill provided in terms that in the case of a rate discrinination, the carrier should be liable to the disfavored shipper
"for the differenco between such higher rate and the
lowest rate charged upon like shipments during the same
period," with a similar provisioi- respecting rebates and
drawbacks, and it is said that because this provision was
finally omitted from the Act, the result is not only significant but conclusive evidence of a legislative intent that
the "damages" in § 8, so far as discriminatory rates are
concerned, are to be measured in some other manner.
If § 8 had in terms prescribed any other measure than that
which was in the original § 2, or if any other had been then
known to the law, I could appreciate the force of the
argument, The course of the debate in Congress,-as
quoted in the opinion, shows that Senator Cullom, who
was the chief sponsor for the bill, and a member of the
Senate Conference Committee, explained the change as

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.

230 U. S.

PiTNEY,

215

J., dissenting.

intended to simply group into one section all the provisions
respecting damages that had been contained in three
sections. That this was done merely for the purpose of
simplification, and with the understanding that the courts
would of course apply the proper measure of damages in
each case, and would not need Congress to tell them how
to do this, clearly appears from Senator Cullom's remarks
in explanation of the change. If any other measure of
damages in rate discrimination cases had ever been successfully applied, I could concede some force to the reasoning that is based upon this change in the bill during
its progress through Congress. But no other measure has
been applied, nor does the opinion point out how any
other can be.
As a great English judge said,' in one of the cases referred to below: "I think that there would be very great
difficulty, if the principle of overcharge [meaning a comparison of the rates charged] were rejected, in finding any
other remedy by way of damages applicable to such a
case." These words were used in the House of Lords
in the last of a series of notable cases that finally settled
the measure of damages for rate discriminations, under
an Act of Parliament that furnished the model for § 2 of
our Jnterstate Commerce Act. That decision was rendered a little more than a year before the passage of our
Act. It was undoubtedly known to Senator Cullom
(a lawyer by profession), who doubtless also knew that
the English courts, in a series of decisions, had adopted
the simple solution that the damage was to be measured
by the amount of the discrimination. It would, I think,
have surprised the learned and distinguished Senator
if lie had [wen told that in merely "simplifying" his act he
had in effect deprived the disfavored shipper of any and
'The Earl of Selbornc, formerly Lord Chancellor Selborne, and before that, as Sir Roundell Palmer, counsel for Great Britain at the
Geneva Arbitration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

all remedies in the ordinary case of discrimination, and
that too, in a legislative measure whose underlying purpose was to pr9 vent such discriminations, and to add to
and extend the remedies already available for securing
redress against them.
,- Prior to the passage of the Act, while the courts of
England perhaps did not recognize a right to recover for
unjust discriminations unless the rate charged to the
complaining party was of itself excessive, the weight of
authority in this country was to the contrary, as pointed
out by this court in Interstate Commerce Commission v.
B. & 0. Railroad, 145 U. S. 263, 275. And see Hays v.
Pennsylvania Co. (1882), 12 Fed. Rep. 309, and note;
Samuels v. Louisville & N. R. Co. (1887), 31 Fed. Rep. 57;
Cook v. Chicago &c.Ry. Co., 81 Iowa, 551, 563; Louisville
E. & St. R. R. Co. v. Wilson, 132 Indiana, 517, 525.
The Interstate Commerce Act and the reports and debates
in Congress that preceded it are replete with evidence that
the Act was intended to give to the shipper against whom
discrimination was practiced at least as ample remedy as
he would have against exactions that were for any other
reason unjust or extortionate.
As a matter of practical construction, the course adopted
by the Interstate Commerce Cominission in reparation
cases is most convincing, not only of what was deemed to
be the intent- of Congress, but of the fact that no other
measure of reparation is practicable saving that which
is based on the rate differential. In every case that has
arisen, so far as I can discover, the difference in rate has
been adopted as the basis of reparation. The causes will
be referred to below.
Reference is made in the opinion to the declaration of
this court (by Mr. Justice Brewer) in Parsons v..Chicago
& Northwestern Ry., 167 U. S.447, 460, that "before any
party can recover under the Act he must show not merely
the wrong of the carrier, but that that wrong has in fact

PENNA. R. R. CO. v., INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

PITNEY,

217

J., dissenting.

operated to his injury." But the next succeeding words
show that this had no such meaning as is now attributed
to it. They are: "If he [the, plaintiff] had shipped to New
York and been charged local rates he might have r'ecovered
any excess thereon over through rates."
In short, Parsons had made only "local" shipments
(Iowa to Chicago), and had paid the regular published
rates therefor. The court held that he was not injured,
under the particular circumstances of the case, by the
failure of the Railway Company to file and publish -a
certain tariff of through rates, applicable not to Chicago
shipments, but only to those destined to New York and
other points on the Atlantic seaboard. And so the decision
was, that he had no ground of action. The case has no
proper bearing, as an authority, upon the question of the
measure of damages; but if it is to be employed as an authority at all upon that ques'tion, the declaration of the
court, that if Parsons had been entitled to recover, his
damages would have been measured by the rate differential, ought not to be overlooked.
The fact is that in the Parsons Case, while the plaintiff
claimed that the carrier was guilty of a discrimination in
rates, this court upon an analysis of his petition-upon
a demurrer to which the case was determined-found there
was no infraction of § 2, because the plaintiff had made
no shipments that entitled him to the lower rates of which
he complained; so that there was no real basis for his action
except the failure of the carrier to publish or file the
rates as required by § 6 of the Act. The gist of the contplaint-was that the carrier, which operated a system of railroad from points in Nebraska through Iowa to Chicago, for
the purpose of giving unlawful preference to the shippers
of corn and oats in Nebraska, and to unlawfully discriminate against the plaintiffs and other Iowa shippers, put in
force from Nebraska points a certain freight tariff on
corn and oats in car load lots to Rochelle, Illinois, when

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

destined to New York, Boston, Philadelphia, or Baltimore;
that this was never circulated or published at any of the
stations on defendant's road in Iowa, nor filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and its existence was
concealed from the knowledge of plaintiff and other
shippers on the line of defendant's road in Iowa; that on
certain dates named, plaintiff had for shipment at a
station in Iowa, certain quantities of corn and oats, and
was prevented and deprived, by reason of the matters
alleged, of the right to ship the same upon the terms and
at the rate thus given to shippers in the State of Nebraska,
and was obliged to and did ship his grain over defendant's
road from the Iowa point to Chicago,at a higher rate than
he could have had by taking advantage of the Nebraska
schedule if that had been published in Iowa; that this
constituted an unlawful preference and discrimination
by defendant in favor of the shippers of grain in the State
of Nebraska and 4gainst the plaintiff as a shipper of grain
in the State of Iowa, andthe defendant thereby charged,
demanded and received a greater compensation for a
shorter -than for a longer haul (the longer including the
shorter), under substantially similar circumstances. This
court (by Mr. Justice Brewer) in dealing with the case,
pointed out (p. 455) that the tariff complained of was a joint
tariff, and not a tariff of local rates on grain to Rochelle,
Illinois, or even to Chicago, which was the eastern limit
of the defendant's road; that, (p. 457) the pleader had not
made -out a case on which it could be said that the socalled joint tariff was a mere device under color of which
defendant was shipping grain from Nebraska points to
Chicago at less rates than were being charged to the nearer
points in Iowa; and proceeded to show (p. 459), that
plaintiff's argument practically was "that, if the tariff
had been filed with the Commission, it might have made
an order, either general or special, requiring that it be
posted at the Iowa stations; that if it had been so posted

PENNA. R
230

S..

.

.

INTRNATI)NAI, (COAL ('O,

P(mY'Y

219

J , disgenting.

he might have extamined thi
c rates and might have de-

termined to ship his corn, not, to Chicago, but to one of
the four eastern points named in such tariff." It,
was
this line of reasoning that led the court to the point of
remarking, p. 460, that "The only right of recovery
given by the Interstate Commerce Act to the individual
is to the 'person or persons injured thereby for full amount
of damages sustained in consequence of any of the violations of the provisions of thi,3 act. So, before any party
can recover under the Act he must show, not merely the
wrong of the carrier, but that that wrong has in fact operated
to his injury. If he had ,hipped to New York and beet
charged local rates he might have recovered any excess-thereon
over through rates, HIe did not ship to New York, and
yet seeks to recover the extra sum he might have been
charged if he had shipped. Penalties are not recoverable
on mere possibilities."
The words italicised (not so in the original) serve, I
think, to show that the court was merely negativing a
recovery bn the part of one who might have shipped, but
did not ship, and was not negativing, but on the contrary
affirming, arguendo, the theory that in the event of the existence of a right of action the measure of damages would have
been the difference in rates.
The opinion herein refers to and undertakes to distinguish the three English cases to which I have already referred-Great Western Ry. Co. v. Sutton (1869), L. R.
4 H. L. 226; London &c. Ry. v. Evershed (1878), L. R.
3*App. Cas. 1029; and Denaby Main Colliery Co. v. Manchester &c. Ry. Co. (1885), L. R. 11 App. Cas. 97--and
states that they "do not support the proposition that
damages can be recovered without proof of what pecuniary
loss had been suffered as a result of the discrimination;"
that "the court treated the low rate as evidence of what
was a reasonable rate, and thereupon gave judgment for
damages as for an overcharge; " and that "the Act of

OCOE1 R TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J,,

Parliament

.

.

dissen.thign

230 U. S.

nmde the lowest rate the lawful

rate." With great respect, it seems to me the court has
misapprehended the effect of these decisions; perhaps.
because of not distinguishing two variant statutes there
under discussion. There was no Act of Parliament that
"made the lowest rate the lawful rate," or in terms declared that any excess over the lowest rate was extortionate, or recoverable in an action at law, as for an overcharge.
The remedy that the courts of England accorded to the
aggrieved shippers against whom the railway companies
had discriminated, was based upon an Act of Parliament
that, so far as concerns the measure of damages for an
unlawful discrimination, is not to be distinguished from
§ 2 of the Interstate Commerce Act; indeed, it furnished
the model for that section. True, it was a very imperfect
model in some respects, and .was improved upon by
Congress; but it was not depa.rted from in any respect
that pertains to the vicasurc of damages for ftvoritism in
rate-making. Whatever distinction (if any) the English
courts make between "overcharge and dI'-llages' has
arisen with respect to a different statute, and one that furnished the model for § 3 of our Interstate (ommerce Act.
Since the English decisions referred to were rendered
prior to the adoption of our Act, and afforded a construetion of the English acts from which ours was taken, it is
of the utlnost imp)ortanee that, the terms of the respective
Acts of Partiament and the precise grounds of the decisions should be clearly understood.
The first of those acts is the so-called Equality Clause,
being § 90 of the Railways C'lauses Consolidation Act,,
1845, (8 and 9 Vict. c. 20), enacted to consolidate in
one act, certain provisions usually inserted in the "special
acts" under which railway companies were incorporated.
Section 90 is set forth in full in the margin.' As will
90. And whereas it is expedient that the conimpany should 1e emabled

to vary the tolls upon tli(t!railway so 'is to accommodate them tothe

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U, S.

221

PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

be observed, while requiring equality in tolls and rates,
so far as it applied, this clause was quite limited with
respect to the circumstances under which it applied, being especially confined in its operation by the phrase
'passing only over the same portion of the line of railway under the same circumstances."
It was in this
respect, especially, that 'Congress improved upon the
model. But, so far as this section did apply, the English
courts held, in the cases cited in the opinion, and for
reacons that will be set forth fully below, that where
inequality in rates was shown, the, shipper against whom
the discrimination was made could recover from the railway company the amount of the discrimination in an
action for money had and received, as so much money

unlawfully exacted from him, just as by the common
law he could recover the excess over a reasonable charge.
In the cases cited, or in any others to which my attention
has been called, no other measure of damages has been
sanctioned, excepting that based upon the amount of the

discrimination.
The other act, under which some controversy had arisen
in the English courts about the allowance of damages
circumstances of the traffic, but that such power of varying should
not be used for the purpose of prejudicing or favoring particular parties, or for the purpose of collusively and unfairly creating a monopoly,
either in the hands of the company or of particular parties; it shall be
lawful, therefore, for the company, subject to the provisions and limitations herein and ia the special act contained, from time to time to alter
or Vary the tolls by the special act authorized to be taken, either upon
the whole or upon any particular portion of the railway as they shall
think fit; provided that all such tolls be at all times charged equally to
all persons, and after the same rate, whether per ton per mile or otherwise, in respect of all passengers, and of all companies or carriages .of
the same description, and if conveyed or propelled by a like carriage or
engine, passing only over the'same portion of the line of railway under
the same circumstances, and no reduction or advance in any such tolls
shall be made, either directly or indirectly, in favor of or against any
particular company or person traveling upon or using the railway.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 V. S.

(but none at all about the measure of them), is-" The
Railway and Canal Traffic Act, 1854," (17 and 18 Vict.
c. 31), of which the second, third and sixth sections are
pertinent to the present inquiry. The second prescribes
the duty of railway companies to furnish reasonable
facilities 'for traffic, without giving "any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to or in favour of
any particular person or company, or any particular
description of traffic, in, any respect whatsoever, nor
shall any such company subject any particular person
or company,. or any particular description of traffic,
to any uidue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage
in any respect whatsoever." -The third section gives to
parties complaining of anything done or omitted to be
done, in violation of contravention of the Act, a special
and extraordinary remedy, by applying "in a summary
way, by motion or summons," to certain of the superior
courts, or to any judge of such court, authorizing the court
or judge to hear and determine the matter complained of,
and to issue an injunction or. interdict, restraining the
company from further continuing such violation of the
Act, and to punish disobedience by attachment or other
process; also authorizing the court or judge to impose upon
the company a heavy daily fine for disobedience of the
injunction or interdict; and "Such moneys shall be payable as the court or judge may direct, . . . either
to the party complaining, or into court to abide the ulti..
mate decision of the court, or to Her Majesty, and payment thereof may, without prejudice to any other mode
of recovering the same, be enforced by attachment or
order in the nature of a writ of execution," etc. By the
sixth section it was enacted as follows: "6. No proceeding
shall be taken for any violation or contravention of the
above enactments except in the manner herein provided,
but nothing herein contained shall take away or diminish
any rights, remedies, or privileges of any person or com-

PENNA. R. R. CO. i. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

223

PITNEY, J., dissentilg.

pany against any railway or canal or railway and1 canal
company under the existing law."

The courts of England have held that because § 2 of
this act establishes rights beyond those existing at the
common law, and § 3 gives an extraordinary remedy therefor, and § 6 excludes other remedies, there can be no recovery in an ordinary action for damages based upon the

mere infringement of the provisions of § 2; but it has been
queried whether for a violation of § 2, if such violation
involves an unlawful extortion of money for carriage, the
ordinary remedies at law for extortion may not be aplicable. This question was reserved by the House ofl Lor(s
in the Denaby Colliery Case, I1 App. Cas. 97, 112. But
the Court of Appeal having in that case declared (L.R.
14 Q. B. Div. 225) that the remedy by § 6 was exclusive,
the same court three years after the enactment of our
Interstate Commerce Act (Rhymney Ry. Co. v. RIyymney
Iron Co., 25 Q. B. Div. 146, 150), adhered to that. view.
And see, on the same subject, Lancashire & Yorkshire Ry.
Co. v. Greenwood (1888), L. R. 21 Q. B. Div. 215.
So far as I have observed, the English courts have never
wavered upon the question of allowing the difference in
freight charges to be recovered by the disfavored shipper.
for violations of the Equality Clause of the act of 1845;
nor ever sanctioned the view that there could be any. other
measure of damages. Nor can I find that any other measure of damages has been suggested for a violation of the
act of 1854 in respect of a rate discrimination. The controversy about that act has been whether any suit could
be maintained at all for a violation of it.
But, as this court has repeatedly pointed out, the provisions
of the second section of the Interstate Commerce Act respecting
equality of rates are modeled after the Equality Clause (§ 90)
of the English act of 1845; while the third section of our Act
is modeled after the English act oJ 1854.
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Ball. & Ohio R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

R., 145 U. S. 263, 277, etc., the court referred to the English acts, and some decisions of the English courts thereunder, saying (p. 284): "These traffic acts do not appear
to be as comprehensive as our own, and may justify contracts which with us would be obnoxious to the long and
short haul clause of the act, or would be open to the charge
of unjust discrimination. But so far as relates to the question of 'undue preference,' it may be presumed that Congress,
in adopting the language of the English act, had in 'mind the
construction given to these words by the English courts, and
intended to incorporate them into the statute. McDonald v.
Hovey, 110 U. S. 619."
In Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 222, the court (by Mr. Justice Shiras)
said: "Similar legislation by the Parliament of England
might render it profitable to examine some of the decisions
of the courts of that country construing its provisions. In
fact, the second section of our act was modeled upon
section 90 of the English 'Railway Clauses Consolidation
Act' of 1845, known as the 'Equality Clause,'_and the
third section of our act was modeled upon the second section of the English 'act for the better regulation of the
traffic on railways and canals' of July 10, 1854, and the
11th section of the act of July 21, 1873, entitled-' An act
to make better provisions for the carrying into effect the
Railway and Canal Traffic Act, 1854, and for other purposes -connected therewith."'
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Del., Lack. &
Western R. Co., 220 U. S. 235, 253, the court (by Mr. Chief
Justice White) said: "It is not open to question that the
provisions of § 2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce were substantially taken from § 90 of the English Railway Clauses
Consolidation Act of 1845, known as the Equality Clause.
Texas & Pac. Railway v. Interstate Com. Com., 162 U. S.
197, 222. Certain also is it that at the time of the passage
of the Act to Regulate Commerce that clause in the Eng-

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

225

PITNNBy, J., dissenting.

lish act had been construed as only embracing circumstances concerning the carriage of the goods and not the
person of the sender, or, in other words, that the clause
did not allow carriers by railroad to make a difference in
rates because of differences in circumstances arising either
before the service of the carrier began or after it was
terminated. It was therefore settled in England that the
clause forbade the charging of a higher rate for the carriage of goods for an intercepting or forwarding agent than
for others. Great Western Ry. Co. v. Sutton (1869), L. R.
4 H. L. 226; Evershed v. London & N. W. R. Co. (1878), 3
App. Cas. 1029; and Denaby Main Colliery Co. v. Manchester &c. Ry. Co. (1885), 11 App. Cas. 97. And it may
not be doubted that the settled meaning which was affixed to
the English Equality Clause at the time of the adoption of
the Act to Regulate Commerce applies in construing the
second section of that act, certainly to the extent that
this interpretation is involved in the matter before us.
Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama M. R. Co., 168 U. S. 144,
166."
Now, what was the construction of the Equality Clause
of the act of 1845, that had been adopted by the English
courts, in the cases thus cited by this court as controlling
evidence of what Congress intended in enacting the second
section of our act?
The Great Western Ry. Co. v. Sutton (1869), L. R. 4
H. L. 226, was an action brought and judgment recovered
for "the amount of certain alleged overcharges." But they
were "overcharges" only in the sense that they were the
differential between the rates charged to the plaintiff and
those charged to others. The opinions of the judges being
called for by the Lords, Mr. Justice Blackburn delivercd
the prevailing view, expounding the subject historically,
as follows (p. 237): "At common law a person holding
himself out as a common carrier of goods was not under
VOL, Gcxxx-" t15

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PiTNEY, J.,

dissenting.

230 U. S.

any obligation to treat all customers equally.' The obligation which the common law imposed upon him was to
accept and carry all goods delivered to him for carriage
according to his profession (unless he had some reasonable
excuse for not doing so) on being paid a reasonable compensation for so doing; and if the carrier refused to accept
such goods, an action lay against him for so refusing; and
if the customer, in order to induce the carrier to perform
his duty, paid, under protest, a larger sum than was
reasonable, he might recover back the surplus beyond what
the carrier was entitled to receive, in an action for money
had and received, as being money extorted from him. But
the fact that the carrier charged others less, though it was
evidence to show that the charge was unreasonable, was
no more than evidence tending that way. There was nothing in the common law to hinder a carrier from carrying for
favored individuals at an unreasonably low rate, or even
gratis. All that the law required was, that he shoold not
charge any more than was reasonable; see per Byles, J.,
in Baxendale v. Eastern Counties Ry. Co., 4 C. B. (N. S.)
78; and per Willes, J., in Branleyv. Southeastern Ry. Co.,
12 C. B. (N. S.) 74. But when railways came into operation, and it was found that they practically superseded
all other modes of transit, it became a question for the
legislature how far they would, when granting numerous
persons power to make a railway and act as carriers on
that line, impose on them restrictions beyond what the
common laW imposed on ordinary carriers. At first the
legislature in each special act inserted such clauses as
seemed, to the particular committees, reasonable in each
case. Very soon those came to be usual clauses which the
then Chairman of Committees of the House of Lords
used to require to be inserted in all railway bills with more
No'E: Otherwise in this country. Interstate Commerce Commission
V. B. & 0. Railroad, 145 U. S. 275, and other"cases cited supra.

PENNA. RJR. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO. 227
230 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

or less modification. They were known by his name as
'Lord Shaftesbury's clauses.' Finally, in 1845, the legislature embodied in a general act (8 and 9 Vict., c. 20)
those clauses which it was thought expedient should generally be inserted in railway acts,."
Mr. Justice Blackburn, after referring to the special
acts that governed the case (what, in this country, would
be called the "charter" of the company), by one of which
the act of 1845 was incorporated into it, and saying that
the rights of the parties must depend upon the effect of

certain other sections in conjunction with §90 of the act
of 1845, which was, to leave the company free to charge
what it thought fit for parcels not exceeding five hundred
pounds in weight, "subject, however, to the effect of the
proviso for equality contained in the 90th section of the
Railway Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, and the similar
proviso for equality contained in the former special act of
this company (7 and 8 Vict., c. 3, sec. 50)," then proceeded to say:
"Then comes the question, what is the legal effect of this
proviso jor equality? I think it appears from the preamble
of the 90th section of the Railways Clauses Consolidation
Act, 1845, that the legislature was of opinion that the
changed state of things arising from the general use of
railways made it expedient, to impose an obligation on railway companies acting as carriers beyond what is imposed
on a carrier at common law. And if this be borne in mind,
I think the construction of the proviso for equality is clear,
and is, that the, defendants may, subject to the limitations in
their special Acts, charge what they think fit, but not more
to one person than they, during the same time, charge to others
under the same circumstances. And I think it follows front
this that if the defendants do charge more to one person than
they, during the same time, charge to others, the charge is, by
virtue qf the statute extortionate. And I think that the rights
and remnedies of a person made to pay a charge beyond the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

limit of equality imposed by the statute on railway companies acting as carriers on their line must be precisely
the same as those of a person made to pay a charge beyond the
limit imposed by the Common.Law on ordinary carriers as
being more than was reasonable. . ...

When it is sought

to show that the charge is extortionate as being contrary,to
the stdtutable obligation to charge equally, it is immaterial
whether the charge is reasonable or not; it is enough to show
that the company carriedfor some other person or class of
persons at a lower charge during the period throughoutwhich
the party complaining was charged more under the like circumstances.1 One single act of charging a person less on
one particular occasion would not I think, make the higher
charge to all others extortionate during all that day, or
week, or month, or whatever the period might be. I
think it would be necessary to shew that there was a practice
of carryingfor some person or class of persons at the lower
rate. But a single instance would be evidence to prove this
practice; and if followed up by shewing that the smaller
charge was repeatedly made at intervals over a period of
time, the jurors would, in the absence of explanation, be
justified in drawing, and would probably draw, the inference
that the compaiy during the period carriedfor others at that
lower rate, and consequently that the higher charge was extortionate as being beyond the statutable limit of equality."
He then proceeds to show that the weight of authority
was very much in favor of this view, citing many previous
cases; and wherever the measure of recovery is referred to
it is in such terms as these: "The excess might be recovered
back under a count for'money had and received," (p. 240);
"the plaintiff recovered the overoharge under a count for
money had and received," (pp. 241, 242). Referring to
Garton v. Bristol and Exeter Railway Co. (1861), 1 B. & S.
(I NOTE: This sentence was quoted with approval by this court, in
145 U. S. 277,)

PENNA. R. R. CO. v,INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

PITNEY,

229

J., dissenting.

112, a case in which he had sat, he says (pp. 243): "If, as
rather appears from the report to be the case, the decision
went so far as to say that an action for money had and
received would not lie where tne overcharge was in breach
of the statutable obligation to charge equally, as much
as if it had been in breach of the common law obligation to
charge reasonably, I think the decision was a mistake; and
it was overruled in Baxendale v. The Great Western Ry.
Co., 16 C. B. (N. S.) 137, by the Court of Exchequer
Chamber, which comprised three out of the four judges
who took part in deciding Garton v. The Bristol & Exeter
Ry. Co., in the Queen's Bench."
He then reviews some later cases in which, for the first
time, a difference of opinion had arisen, with the final result of concluding that the plaintiff was entitled to recover.
Four other judges present concurred. Baron Bramwell
(p. 250) alone took a different view; not, however, respecting the measure of damages, but upon thQ question
whether the Equality Clause had been violated.
The House of Lords followed the majority of the judges
and affirmed the judgment below, Lord Chelmsford delivering an elaborate opinion, in which, after discussing
the evidence upon which the violation of the Equality
Clause depended, he proceeded- as follows (p. 262): "The
last subject to be considered is the form of the action;
whefher an action for money had and received will lie, to recover bqal overcharges made upon the carriage of the plaintiff's goods, not absolutely but relatively to the charges made
to other, persons. It was argued for the defendants that
the charge upon the plaintiff's packed parcels, being warranted by the 10 and 11 Vict., ch. 226, and being reasonable, and within the absolute discretion of the company,
the plaintiff was not injured by other persons being
charged less than he was. But this is a fallacious way of
viewing the question. The plaintiff's complaint is not
that others are charged less than himself, but that the fact

OCTOBER TERN , 192.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

of their having been charged less entitled him to claim the
same rate of charge, and that all beyotd that rate is overcharge.
The very fact of the smaller charge to others is the ground
of his complaint of an overcharge to himself. Now, if the
defendants were bound to charge the plaintiff for the carriage of his goods a less sum, and they refused to carry
them except upon payment of a greater sum, as he was
compelled to pay the amount demanded, and could not
otherwise have his goods carried, the case falls within the
principle of several decided cases, in which it has been held
that money which a party had been wrongfully compelled to
pay under circumstances in which he. was unable to resist
the imposition, may be recovered back in an actionfor money
had and received. In the language of the Court of Common Pleas, in the case of Parker v, The Great Western Railway Company, 7 Man. & G 253-' The payments made
by the plaintiff were not voluntary, but, were made in
order to induce the company to do that which they were
bound to do without them."' Lord Cbelmsford proceeds
then to cite other decisions, showing that the Carton Case
was erroneously decided, and was overruled by the
Baxendale Case.
London & North Western Ry. Co, v, Evershed (187k),
L. R. 3 App. Cas. 1029; 5 ng, Rul, Cas. 351; was an
action by a shipper to recover fro,, the carrier an amount
equivalent to the rebates given to another shipper in violation
of the Equality Clause. The House of Lords sustained the
action, the Lord Chancellor (Ld, Cairns) saying (p. 1035):
"The one right, to my mind, the clear and undoubted
right, of a public trader is to see that he is receiving from a
railway company equal treatment with other traders of
the same kind doing the same business and supplying the
same traffic. In my opinion that is not the case with
regard to this plaintiff, and therefore 1 think he is entitled
to recover the moneys he had paid under protest." Lord
Hatherly said (p. 1035): "My Lords, I have come to

PENNA. K. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

231

PITNY, J., dissenting.

the same conclusion. I have been unable to see, since the
beginning of the argument, in a case where there was this
difference in the charge against the respondent, how it
could possibly be said that the case comes within the wellestablishedconstruction of the protrisions of the 90th section of
the Railways Clauses ConsolidationAct. , . . (p. 1037).
Therefore, I apprehend that, your Lordships cannot possibly say that the appellants are entitled to make this distinctive charge and give to other traders a rebate without
giving the respondent a return of the money which he has
so paid in excess of the charge to other people.; I think the
money he has so paid, and paid under protest, can now be
recovered back by him." It should be noted that the
"protest" was of course not treated as a condition precedent to the recovery. The word was used merely to point
out what payments were referred to; there having been,
in fact, a protest in respect to the payments in question.
Denaby Main Colliery Co. v. Manchester, Sheffield &
Aincolnshire Railway Co. (H. L. 1885), L. R. 11 App.
Cas. 97, was an appeal from a decision of the Court of
Appeal, reported in L. R. 14 Q. B. Div. 209; and the case
came there from the Queen's Bench Division (Matthew
and Day, JJ.), whose decision is reported L. R. 13 Q. B.
Div. 674. The questions discussed in the Divisional Court
were (a) whether certain "group rates" constituted a
violation of the Equality Clause of the Consolidation Act,
1845, § 90, and, if so, whether the damages for breach of
that enactment were limited to the amount of overcharges
(and what was the measure of such overcharges), or
whether general damages could also be recovered. (b)
Whether an action lay for breach of the Railway and
Canal Traffic Act, 1854, § 2, in view of the prohibition of
6 of the same act; and, if so, whether the damages for
breach of this act were limited to the amount of overcharges, or whether general damages could also be recovered. The "group rates" comprised the rates from'

OCTOBER TERM, 1912
PixNY, J., dissenthig.

230 U. S.

each of the collieries in a certain district, to a number of
towns and places in -various parts of England, and the
coal going from any one of the collieries comprised in the
group to any one of these towns and places must pass
defendant's colliery, which was on the samp line of railway.
The judges held (13 Q. B. Div. 678) that the group rates
were a violation of §90 of the act of 1845, and that the
overcharge could be recovered in accordance with Evershed's Case. This was on the ground that, in the absence
of special circumstances to justify the same charge for
carrying a greater distance for one customer than for
another, there was a case of inequality within § 90 of the
act of 1845. The question whether "be damages for
breach of that section were limited to the amount of
overcharges, or whether general damages could also be
recovered, was not answered, because there was in the
statement of facts no ground upon which an action for
general damages would be maintainable. With respect
to the act of 1854, it was held that an action did not lie
for anything done in contravention of that act, and that
Evershed's Case was not an authority for s-;uch action, since
the point was not presented there and no opinion was
expressed upon it.
In the Court of Appeal (14 Q. B. Div. 209), the very
special facts of the case are set forth. The court (per
Lindley, L. J.) affirmed the judgynert of the Queen's
Bench Division that no action would lie in respect of any
breach of the provisions of the Railway and Canal Traffic
Act, 1854, §2. Next, it was held that the "gi'ouped rates"
were not a violation of the act of 1845, because the termini
were not the same; the reasoning being (p. 223) that the
words "passing only over the same portion of the line"
meant passing between the same points of departure and
arrival, and passing over no other part. of the line.
But it was held that the Company had -violated the
Equality Clause by charging to the defendant greater

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

233

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

rates than those charged to one Bannister; the coal in each
case going from defendants' mine to Grimsby. As to this,
the court proceeded to say (p. 226): "It remains only to
consider what damages, if any, the defendants have sustained by reason of the company's reduction of their tolls,
for the coal carried from the defendants' colliery for
Bannister and shipped at Grimsby for the American
steamers and for points south of Harwich. The defendants in fact sent no coals to Grimsby for such shipment, nor did they ever request the railway company
to carry coals for such shipment. If they had, there
is no reason to suppose that they would have been
charged more than Bannister. .
The fact, however, remains that at various times the railway company
did carry coals to Grimsby for the defendants and Bannister, under the like circumstances, as regards trouble
and cost to the company, and as regards coals got
from the defendants' collieries over the same portion of
the line; and the company did charge Bannister for the
coals so carried for him less than they charged the defendants; and if the defendants had shown that they had
thereby sustained pecuniary loss, they would have been
entitled to recover damages in respect thereof. The Divisional Court has held the defendants entitled to recover overcharges made to the defendants on the principle laid down in Evershed's'Case, i. e., the charges made
to them in excess of the charges made to Bannister for
similar services. But the court does not say on what
quantity of coal, or on how much of the defendants' coal
carried to Grimsby., this excess is to be calculated, and we
are unable to. ee how the quantity is to be fixed. This
difficulty did not arise in Evershed's Case; and the principle of that case seems to us inapplicable to the assessment of damages in this case. It cannot be right to calculate the amount of overcharge on all the coal sent by
the defendants to Grimsby without reference to the quan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PiTNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

tity on which, or the times during which, a less rate was
charged to Bannister, and, as already stated, we do not
see on what principle to fix the amount of alleged overcharge. Under the peculiar circumstances of this case the
defendants have not shewn any grounds which will justify
the court in holding the railway company liable to them for
any overcharges or damages. There is, therefore, nothing
to be ascertained by the arbitrator on this head."
In the House of Lords (11 App. Cas. 97), it was held,
that where the railway company carried coal from a
group of collieries situate at different points along their
line, and charged all the collieries with one uniform set of
rates in respect of such carriage, the owners of the colliery
nearest to the point of arrival were not entitled to maintain an action for overcharges merely on the ground that
the difference in distance showed that the same rate was
a discrimination against the shorter haul., The Lords
affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeal to the effect
(a) that the railway had not in the above respect infringed
the provisions of § 90 of the act of 1845. They affirmed
the decision (b) that in this particular case an action wQuld
not lie for breach of the act of 1854, because undue or
unreasonable preference or prejudice, within the meaning
of that act, had not been proven. The question whether
under any circumstances an action lies for breach of the
act of 1854 was reserved. And (c) upon the question of the
coal carried from the appellants' colliery to Grimsby at
the same time that less rates were charged on Bannister's
coal because of its ultimate destination for shipment on
American steamers or for points south of Harwich, the
House of Lords affirmed the judgment of the Court of
Appeal that the allowances made to Bannister were a
violation of the Equality Clause of the act of 1845.
But upon the now important question of damages the
House of Lords (reversing the Court of Appeal) held that the
appellantswere entitled to recover the overcharges, the amount

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

235

PITNBY, J., dissenting.

to be ascertained by finding what quantity of coal carried
under the same circumstances and over the same portion of the
line was charged at the higher rate to the appellantsat the time
the lower rate was charged to Bannister.
There was a difference of opinion among the Law Lords
as to whether the Colliery Company was entitled to recover the amount of the overcharge computed upon the
entire tonnage transported for them, or only upon the
less tonnage that had been carried at the reduced rate for
Bannister during the same period. The Lord Chancellor
(Halsbury) held to the former view; the Earl of Selborne
and, apparently, Lord Blackburn, to the latter. In the
end, the view of the Lord Chancellor prevailed. But
the Lords all agreed that an inequality in the rates charged
to two shippers for the same service was to be treated as
conclusive evidence that the disfavored shipper had been
overcharged; and that the rate differential-described
as 'overcharge "-was to be adopted as the measure of
the compensation to be awarded for a violation of the
Equality Clause.,
The Lord Chancellor said (p. 112): "The remaining
question, namely, what the appellants are entitled to
recover from the company upon the hypothesis that they
have been overcharged, is one which does not seem to me
to be surrounded by the difficulty that has been assumed
to exist. The arbitrator, to whom this question must go
back, will be able to find on what, quantities of coal the
appellantswere charged, during the periods when the railway
company were carryingfor Bannisterat a less rate;and if the
principle is laid down by your Lordships that the appellant's
coal ought to have been carriedat the same rate, I am unable
to see the difficulty of ascertainingthe amount of overcharge."
The Earl of Selborne said upon this topic (p. 116): "I
agree with the arbitrator in holding this to be a case of
overcharge, and not a question of damages; and I should
answer his question (upon the authority of Sutton's Case

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

and Evershed's Case, and of the opinion of Lord St. Leonards in Finnie's Case, 2 Macq. 186), by saying that the
proper measure of the overcharge to the appellants is the
difference between the amount charged to them, and that
charged (after deducting the allowance) to Bannister, for
coals carried over the same part of the railway and under
the same circumstances, during the same periods of time.
Is there, then, any insuperable difficulty arising out of the
fact, that during these periods of time, not only coals
on which these allowances were made, but also other
coals, on which Bannister was charged the same rates
with the appellants, were carried over the same distance,
and under the same circumstances? I do not think so. It
being known how much coal was actually carriedat the reduced
rate for Bannister during these periods, it seems to me to
result, from the principle established in the cases of Sutton
and Evershed, that the appellants ought to have been charged
at the same reduced rate up to, but not beyond, the same total
quantity during the same period of time, and that this is the
true measure of the overcharge,for which the arbitratorought
to give them credit. . . . I think (with the Court of
Appeal) that there would be very great difficulty, if the principle of overcharge were rejected, in finding any other remedy
by way of damages applicable to such a case."
Lord Blackburn, after quoting what was said in the
Court of Appeal (as quoted above), upon the question of
damages, said (p. 124): "1 am not satisfied with the way
in which Lindley, L. J., deals with Evershed's Case, and
the mode in which the Divisional Court had applied it.
I think that it cannot be right to calculate the amount
of overcharge on all the coal sent by the defendants from
their colliery to Grimsby for shipment, without reference
to the quantity of coal on which, or the time during which,
the less rate was charged to Bannister for coal carried
from the defendants' colliery. The arbitrator has not
found, and I do not think he. was bound tp find in the

PENNA. R. R. CO. o. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

237

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

special case, what part of the coals carried by the railway
were carried only over the same part of the railway with
those carried for Bannister during the same time, so as
to make this charge on these coals extortionate. I think
when the case goes back he will have to find this in order
to ascertain the amount, if any, which can be recovered
back as overcharge."
Lord FitzGerald said simply (11 App. Cas. 125):
"My Lords, I have read the two elaborate opinions which
have been delivered by my noble and learned friend near
me, and my noble and learned friend opposite, and I
entirely concur in the order which it is proposed to make,
and have nothing to add."
But the Syllabus (11 App. Cas. 98) expresses the view
of the Lord Chancellor, and the order for judgment
(p. 126) shows that this view prevailed.
The order was--"That the arbitrator must ascertain
what quantity of coal carried under the same circumstances
and on the same portion only of the 7ine was charged at the
higher rate ,to the defendants at the time the lower rate was
charged to Bannister, the fact that the coal was shipped on
the American steamboats or to the south of Harwich not
being a difference in the circumstances; and so ascertain
the amount of the overcharge."
The very clear result of these three important decisions
of the House of Lords was that the amount of the difference
in rates was to be treated as so much money unlawfully
exacted from the disfavored shipper, and recovered accordingly.
There is not the least doubt that Congress, in passing
the Interstate Commerce Act, had in mind these then
recent decisions of the English court of last resort, and
intended to adopt the principle those cases had established
with respect to the Equality Clause of the English act of
1845, viz., that just as, at the common law, a shipper who
had been charged an unreasonable rate could recover back

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
TPiTNEY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

the excess, so under the statute he could treat lower
rates customarily allowed to other shippers for the like
service as conclusive evidence that he had been subjected
to an overcharge, and recover the difference.
To this extent, at least, I deem the question of the
measure of damages for unlawful discrimination, contrary
to § 2 of the Interstate Commerce Act, to be covered
by the previous decisions of this court, already cited (145
U. S. 283; 162 U. S. 222; 220 U. S. 253), which pointed
out that the Equality Clause furnished the model for § 2
of the Interstate Commerce Act, and that it was adopted
by Congress with the construction that had been put upon
it by these same decisions of the House of Lords. Were
the matter res nova, I should entertain no doubt of the
propriety of adhering to the English rule.
Whether the House of Lords was right in the Denaby
Main Colliery Case in allowing a recovery by the aggrieved
shipper based upon the rate differential as applied to
his entire tonage, or whether it should have been limited
to a tonnage not exceeding the tonnage of the favored
shipper on which the rebate was allowed, if that was less
than the tonnage of the aggrieved shipper, may be a
question of some doubt. This court in the present case
is not called upon to pass upon it.
For the record before us does not present the question
whether the plaintiff's recovery ought to have been measured by the tonnage of the favored shippers upon which
the rebates were allowed. The plaintiff in error (defendant in the trial court) did not prefer any request or take
any exception that would have based the recovery upon
a computation of the favored tonnage. There was no evidence, indeed, of the amount of that tonnage; it being
simly nmade to appear that of all the coal shipped by the
Berwiud-White Company (one of the fairored shippers)
during the period of rebating, only 10 per centum was
contract coal on which rebates were allowed. How much

PENNA. R. R. CO. v.INTERNATIONAL COAL CO.
230 U. S.

PlTNEY,

239

J., dissenting.

the Berwind-White Company shipped did not appear,
and so it may properly be presumed that 10 per centum
of its shipments would amount to more than the, total of
the plaintiff's shipments.
Defendant did request the trial court to instruct the
jury that if the lower rate accorded to other shippers was
not justified, "the' amount which the plaintiff is entitled
to recover is measured by the difference between the rate
per ton which it paid on all its shipments during such
period, and the rate per ton which the other shipper paid
on his or its whole volume of shipments during such
period." This, as the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly
held (173 Fed. Rep. 6), in effect requested the court to
charge, as fixing the measure of recovery, not the lowest
rate charged by the railroad to another shipper, but
the general average paid on all shipments made by such
shipper. I agree with that court in the view that Congress
made no such rule. It is inconsistent with anything in
the English cases, or in any case in this country to which
attention is called.
The conclusion of this court that the right to recover in
such a case as the present "is limited to the pecuniary
loss suffered and proved," and that the fact that greater
charges are exacted from the plaintiff than from his
competitor for the like service is not evidence of such
pecuniary loss, is, so far as I have been able to discover,
entirely unsupported by authority. The Parsons Case
(167 U. S. 447, 460) is cited as authority, but in my view
isnot properly to be so considered, for reasons already
fully explained. The "only other case" is KnudsenFerguson Fruit Co. v. Michigan Central R. Co., 148 Fed.
Rep. 968, 974. This was an action to recover a sum claimd
to have been unlawfully exacted for the icing of a carload
of fruit. At p. 974 the court said, arguendo: "To support
a recovery under this section [§ 8] there must be a showing of some specific pecuniary injury.
. .
lHe [the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PrrNFY, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

shipper] must show either that there has been some
unreasonable or excessive charge imposed, or some unlawful discrimination practiced against him." As this court
holds that in the present case an unlawful discrimination
was practiced' against the shipper, I do not see anything
in the Knudsen Case to deprive it of its right to recover,
or to affect the question of damages. Central Coal & Coke
Co. v. Hartman, 111 Fed. Rep. 96, and Meeker v. Lehigh
Valley R. Co., 183 Fed. Rep. 548, were actions to recover
treble damages under the Sherman Anti-trust Act; in
the latter case (p. 551) the court was careful to point out
that the plaintiff was not seeking redress as a shipper,
nor was the defendant sued as a carrier. Hoover v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 156 Pa. St. 220, 224, was an action upon
a Pennsylvania statute, not, like the Interstate Commerce
Act, giving to the party injured a right -of action for
"damages sustained," but making the offending carrier
"liable to the party injured for damages treble the amount
of injury suffered." The court cited no authority for its
decision that the difference in the freight rates did not
furnish a measure for the amount of the single damages.
Evidently because of the penal character of the remedy
the court shrank from adopting what otherwise would
be deemed the normal rule for determining the amount
of the injury.
On the other hand, Cook v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 81
Iowa, 551, 563, is a distinct authority for the proposition
that in a case of discrimination in rates accomplished
by means of rebating, the amount of the rebates furnishes
the measure of damages; the court saying: "The only
finding that can in any fairness be made is that after
deducting the rebate the rate was reasonable; and that
the exaction from the plaintiffs was unreasonable and the
discrimination against them unjust." To the same effect
is'Louisville &c. R. Co. v. Wilson, 132 Indiana, 517, 525,
where an instruction that the allowaace of more favorable

PENNA. R. IL CO. &. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO. 241
230 U. S.

PTNEY, J., dissenting.

rates to another shipper entitled the plaintiff to recover
the difference, was sustained on appeal.
The present decision ignores the practical construction
that has invariably been placed upon the act by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
In Burgess v. Transcontinental Freight Bureau, 13 I. C.
C. 668, 680, the Commission ruled upon the precise question now before us, in dealing with a case of rates held
excessive per ie, but only so held as the result of a comparison between the rates under attack and other rates customarily charged. The complainants claimed reparation
by reason of shipments under the old rate. Defendants
denied that such reparation should be awarded, even
though the Commission were of the opinion that that rate
was excessive, and this "for the reason that no damage
upon the part of the complainants has been established."
It appeared that the market was not affected by the rate,
and that the freight had been added to the price paid by
the consumer; and it was insisted that the complainants
who had paid this freight rate had not been actually injured. The Commission said: "Such is not, in our opinion, the proper meaning of this term [damage]. These
complainants were shippers of hardwood lumber to this
destination, and they were entitled to a reasonable rate
from the defendants for the service of transportation. An
unreasonable ratewas in fact exacted. They were thereby
deprived-of a legal right, and the measure of their damage
is the difference between the rate to which they were entitled and the-ate which they were compelled to pay. If
complainants were obliged to follow every transaction to
its ultimate result, and to trace out the exact commercial
effect of the fieight rate paid, it would never be possible to
show daihfages With sufficient accuracy to justify giving
them. Cert ainly these defendants are not cutitled to this
money which they hve ta-ken f-rori the complainants, an(l
they ought n0t to be heard to say that they should not
YOL. ccxxx-1G

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
PiVry,J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

be required to refund this amount because the complainants themselves may have obtained some portion of this
sum from the consumer of the commodity transported."
It is upon this theory that reparation has been awarded
by the Commission from the beginning. After an examination of the reports of their decisions as exhaustive as
the time at my disposal would permit, I think it entirely
safe to say that in the thousands of reparation cases that
have been passed upon, reparation has not been refused
under circumstances at all resembling those of the case
at bar; and that wherever reparation has been allowed it
has been based upon the rate differential, and awarded
to the shipper who paid the freight, without regard to
whether or not he charged it over against his consignee.
The same rule has been adopted in all cases, whether the
rates charged to the complainant have been deemed unreasonable per se or not; indeed, where they have been
thus denounced it has ordinarily been done as the result
of comparison between the rate under attack and other
rates on similar traffic. Illustrative decisions are cited in
the margin.1
'Reparation by reason of published rates held unreasonable because
discriminatory, irrespective of whether they were otherwise extortionate.

12 L C.C.418, 426; 141. C.C.422, 434; 14 L C.C.523; 16 1.C.C.
528; 17 I.C.C.578; 18 1.C.C.259; 18 1.C.C.212, 219; 18 I.C.C.
550; 18 I.C.C.580.
By reason of published rates held unreasonable because in excess of
rate afterwards voluntarily established by the carrier.
12 1.C. C. 13; 12 1.C. C. 141; 14 1.C. C. 118; 14 1.C. C. 577; 16
I. C. C. 190, 192; 16 1. C. C. 293; 16 . C. 450; 20 1 C. C. 104.
By reason of published rates held unreasonable because in excess of
rate afterwards established by the Commission.
12 1. C. C. 417; 14 1. C. C. 199, 205; 17 IC. C,.
251, 253; 17 I. C. C.
333; 18 1. C. C. 301.
By reason of rates held unreasonable because; resulting from error in
routing chargeable to the carrier.
14I. C. C. 527; 18 1. U. C. 527.

INT'ERNATIONAL COAL CO.

PENNA. R. R. CO.

e.

2:30 U. 8.

Pi'c', J., dissenting.

243

This court, while saying very plainly what the word
"damages" in § 8 does not mean, reaches its conclusion
without determining what the word does mean. It is said
that the "damages may be the same as the rebate, or less
than the rebate, or many times greater than the rebate."
It is said that in the case under consideration there was
"no proof of injury, no proof of decrease in business, loss
of profits, expense incurred, or damage of any sort suffered." It is said that "If plaintiff and one of the favored
companies had both shipped coal to the same market on
the same day, the rebate on contract coal may have given
an advantage which may have prevented the plaintiff from
selling, may have directly caused it expense, or may have
diminished or totally destroyed its profits. The plaintiff,
under the present statute, in any such case .being then
entitled to recover the full damages sustained." But as
the contract coal of the favored shipper had been sold long
before (prior to April 1, 1899, at latest), I am unable to
see how it can reasonably be supposed that the rebate
could have prevented the plaintiff from selling, or have
caused it expense, or have diminished or destroyed its
profits upon coal that happened to reach destination on
the same day.
What., then, is to be the measure of damages? Whatever it is to be, it is apparent that we must henceforward
abandon the simple and direct method of computing the
liv reason of published rates held unreasonable per se.
I4 I. C. C. 525; 4 i, (. C. 577; 16 I. C. C. 469; 20 1. C. C. 12; 26
1. C. C. 104; 22 t. C C. 283.
By reason of published rates held unreasonable because higher than
obtainable by another route.
12 1, C. C. 141
By reason of l ublished rates held uinreasonable because exceding
i'[i sulu or the lurals.
131 . c. (C. [5'; I I L C. C. 3130; 11 L (. C. 519; 11 1. C. C. .573; 1t
I. U. C. 579; 16 1, (. . 293; 16 1. C, C. 31S: 161. C. C ,339; 211. C. C.
21.5..

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PIE

Y, J., dissenting.

230 U. S.

rate differentials, and therefrom ascertaining the amount
of the reparation, and must enter into inquiries respecting
the state of the market, and ascertain whether, upon the
precise date that the goods of the injured party reached
the market, goods, of the like character owned by the
favored shipper came into direct competition with them.
All of this seems to me to be utterly impracticable, and
I cannot believe that Congress intended any such result
to follow from the language it employed,
It is said that under the rule of the Denaby Colliery Case
it would follow that if there were, say, five dealers, each
shipping 10,000 tons, to one only of whom rebates aggregating $3,500"had been allowed, each of the five would be
as much entitled as plaintiff to recover $3,500 on their
several shipments of 10,000 tons each, and the five verdicts would aggregate $17,500 because of the payment of
$3,500 to the favored shipper. But if § 2 of the Act is to
be given any vital force, it must be construed as estopping
the carrier from saying that the amount actually charged,
less the rebate, is less than ought to be charged on a shipment of 10,000 tons; and if he himself rebates $3,500 to
one shipper, the requirement that he rebate the same to
each of the four others, does not penalize the carrier. It
simply requires him to do service for all at the rate which
he himself has fixed in dealing with the favored shipper.
Nor can I see that this would "create 4 legalized, but
endless, chain of departures from the tariff." If § 2 is
enforced strictly in accordance with the English rule it
will very clearly tend to prevent any departures from the
lawfully established tariffs.
It seems to me a strange view of the matter to deny
direct repaxation in specie to the aggrieved shipper, by the
payment to him of an amount sufficient to leave the net
rate charged to him equal to the lowest rate customarily
charged to a competitor; and to base this denlial on the
theory that reparation will do more harm than good, by

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. INTERNATIONAL COAL CO. 245
230 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

creating an "endless chain of departures from the tariff."
Of course, the result would be that if there were five shippers, and rebates were given to one of them unlawfully,
and then by legal compulsion the carrier were required to
give equivalent rebates to the others, this would constitute five "departures from the tariff" instead of one.
But what matters it, provided the five shippers are thereby
put upon an equal footing? The prohibition against rebates and other discriminations, and also the requirement
of established and published rates, are intended to compel
fair and equal treatment by the carrier of all shippers. I
can see nothing in the act that makes published rates so
sacred that departures from them by the carrier must
go unredressed, because to redress the grievance will require a further departure. Equality in the treatment of
shippers is the end aimed at by the act; published rates
are but a means to that end. We should not so exalt the
means as to lose sight of the end and object of the Act.
Besides, if the theory of the opinion is to be adhered to,
there will necessarily be as many different rates as there
are differenoes in the circumstances of the disfavored
shippers who seek redress because of rebates or other rate
discriminations. One aggrieved party may receive damages far beyond the money equivalent of the discrimination; another may receive much less; still another may receive nothing at all. If we were to look to the outcome of
these private actions for violation of the equality provision of § 2 of the Act, and treat them as amounting in the
end to a determination of the freight rate, the inevitable
result (on the theory adopted by the court) would be that
one violation by the carrier would result in as many different rates as there were different shippers to be discriminated against.
But, with great respect, I again ask: What, in tl-e present
case, is to be the measure of damages? The plaintiff, upon
shipments aggregating 40,000 tons of coal in two years,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
PmNEY, J.,dissenting.

230 U. S.

has been charged about $12,000 more than its competitors
have been charged during the same period for the same
service. The plaintiff has actually paid the freight bills
to the railroad company. Upon the face of the record, the
plaintiff's expense account has been actually increased by
the amount of $6,000 per annum, as compared with its
competitors. Other things being equal, the profits of the
plaintiff, upon the production and sale of the 40,000 tons
of coal, were $12,000 less than otherwise they would have
been. It does not appear that other things were not
equal. Yet the decision is, that there is "no proof of
injury,

.

.

.

expense incurred, or damage of any sort

suffered." Is not the payment of a fall freight bill, as compared with a reduced freight bill, an "expense incurred "?
What other expense could be incurred by a shipper, at-tributable to a discrimination in rates?
The opinion says: "Of course, no part of such payment
of lawful rates can be treated as an overcharge or as an
extortion. Having paid only the lawful rate, plaintiff
was not overcharged, though the favored shipper was illegally undercharged." This is not only unsupported by
authority, but is, I submit, inconsistent with the result,
reached in the present case. The court decides that the
plaintiff is injured, and entitled to maintain an action
against the carrier under § 8, because the carrier has collected less compensation from a favored shipper for the
like service. The rebates were merely the device by
which the discount from the published rates was accomplished. How can such an action lie at all, except that;
§ 2 makes the published and otherwise lawful rates unlawful aind extortionate when less rates are charged lo
favored shippers, through the device of rebates or otherwise? It seems a mere play upon words to say that, "the
favored shipper was illegally undercharged"
Certainly
it is not to hinm that the right of action is given by § 8.
In short, the opinion treats the imposition of the "lawful

MITCHELL COAL CO. z. PENNA. R. R. CO.
230 1. S.

247

Sylahs.

rates "-that is, the published rates--as unlawful for the
purpose of establishing the injuria, but insists that they
must be treated as lawful when we come to ascertain the
damnum.
The result is, the legal paradox: Injuria sine damno.
The plaintiff is wronged, but not harmed; it may sue, but
may not-recover.
If the rate differential is not a proper element of damages in actions brought in the courts, I suppose it will not
be proper for the Commission to adhere to it. Yet the
sheer impossibility of- adopting any other measure of damages, in the multitude of reparation cases that the Commission has to deal with, is perfectly obvious.
The result, upon the whole, is a virtual denial of private
remedy for the most common and harmful of those discriminations that the Interstate Commerce Act was designed to prevent and to redress.

MITCHELL COAL AND COKE COMPANY v.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 674.

Submitted 'Decermber 4,1912.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. International (CoalCo., ante, p. 184, fol-

lowed to effect that the courts have jurisdiction of a case brought by
a shipper against a carrier for the amount of damages actually sustained by him for charging hin the full tariff when it was carrying
the same goods the same distance fo' other shippers at lower rates
but that such, damages must be sustained by proof as to the amount
thereof.
The courts have not juiisdiction of a suit brought by a shipper against
a carrier for damages by reason of paying other shippers of similar

