OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
SIMPSON ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE COMMISSION OF
THE STATE OF MINNESOTA v. SHEPARD.
SAME v. 'KENNEDY.
SAME v. SHILLABER,
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DI3TR:(CT OF MINNESOTA.

Nos. 291, 292, 293.

Argued April 9, 10, 11, 12, 1912.-Decided June 9,
1913.

These appeals involve the validity of the orders of the Railroad and
Warehouse Commission, and the Iegislativd acts, of the State of
Minnesota prescribing maximum rates for freight, and a maximum
fare of two cents a mile for passengers. The rates relate to traffic exclusively between points within the State. It was contended, however, that as applied to cities on the State's boundary, or to places
within competitive districts crossed by the state line, the rates disturbed the relation previously e isting between interstate and intrastate rates, thus imposing a direct burden upon interstate commerce
and creating discriminations ni against localities in other States. The
rates were also assailed as confiscatory. The rates are sustained as
to the Northern Pacific and Great Northern companies. In the case
of the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, the rates are
held to be confiscatory in view of the particular facts shown with
respect to that road:
In "reviewing the questions involvwd, the court held that:
The Federal Constitution gives Congress an authority at all times
adequate to secure the freed6r,. of interstate commercial intercourse
from state control and to provide effective regulation of that inter-

course as the National interest may demand.
The, commerce that is confined within one State, and does not affect
other States, is reserved to the State. This reservation is only of
that power which is consistent with the-grant to Congress.
The authority of Congress extends to every part of interstate cornmerce and to every instrumentality or agency by which it is carried

THE MINNESOTA RATE. CASES.
230 U.S.

Syllabus.

on; and the full control by Congress over the subjects committed to
its regulation is not to be denied or thwarted by the commingling
of interstate and intrastate operations.
Even without action by Congress, the commerce clause of the Constitution necessarily excludes the States from direct control of subjects
embraced within the clause which are of such a nature that, if
regulated at all, their regdilation should be prescribed by a single
authority. *There is thus secured the essential immunity of interstate intercourse from the imposition by the States of direct burdens
and restraints.
There remains to the States the exercise of the power appropriate to
their territorial jurisdiction in making suitable provision for local
needs. The State may provide local improvements, create and
regulate local facilities, and adopt protective measures of a reasonable character in the interi st of the health, safety, morals and welfare
of its people, although interstate, commerce may incidentally or
indirectly be involved.
Where matters falling within the state power, as above described, are
also by reason of their relation to interstate -commerce within the
reach of the Federal power, Congress must be the judge of the necessity of Federal action; until Congress does act, the States may act.
The paramount authority of Congress enables it to intervene at its
discretion for the complete and effective government of that which
has been committed to its care, and, for this purpose and to this
extent, in response to a con viction of national need, Congress may
displace local laws by substituting laws of its own.
Regulation of railroad rates by the State began with railroad transportation.
The authority of the State to prescribe what shall be reasonable
(harges for intrastate transportation is state-wide, unless-it be limited
by the exertion of the constitutional power of Congress with respect
Io interstate commerce and its instruments. As a power appropriate
to the territorial jurisdiction of the State it is not confined to a part
of the State, but extends throughout the State-to its cities adjacent
to its boundaries as well as to those in the interior of the State. If
(his authority of the State be restricted, it must be by virtue of the"
actual exercise of Federal control and not by reasorl merely of a
dormant Federal power, that is, one which has not been exerted.
Congress in the.Act:to Regulate Commerce expressly provided that the
provisions of the act should not extend to transportation wholly
within one State.
Having regard to the terms of the Federal statute, the familiar range
"VOL. ccxxx.---23

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

of state action at the time it was enacted, the continued exercise of
state authority in the same manner and to the same extent after its
enactment, and the decisions of this court recognizing and upholding
such authority, this court finds no foundation for the proposition
that the Act to Regulate Commerce contemplated interference with
the authority of the State to prescribe reasonable rates for the exclusively internal traffic throughout the extent of its territory.
Neither by the original act nor by its amendment, has Congress sought
to establish'a unified control over interstate and intrastate rates; it
has not set up a standard for intrastate rates or prescribed, or authorized the Federal commission to prescribe, either maximum or
minimum rates for intrastate traffic.
The fixing of reasonable rates for intrastate transportation was left by
the act where it had been found, that is, with the States and the
agencies created by the States to deal with that 'subject.
Under the established principles governing state action, Minnesota
did not transcend the limits of its authority in prescribing the rates
here involved, assuming them to be reasonable intrastate rates. It
exercised an authority appropriate to its territorial jurisdiction and
not opposed to any action thus far taken by Congress.
The interbiending of operations in the conduct of interstate and local
business by interstate carriers, and the exigencies that are said to
arise with respect to the maintenance of interstate rates by reason
of their relation to intrastate rates, are considerations for the practical judgment of Congress.
When the situation becomes such that adequate regulation of interstate rates cannot be maintained without imposing requirements with
respect to such intrastate rates of interstate carriers as substantially affect interstate rates, it is for Congress to determine, within
the limits of its constitutional authority, over interstate commerce
and its instruments, the measure of the regulation it should supply.
It is the function of the court to interpret and apply the law already
enacted, but not, under the guise of construction, to provide a more
comprehensive scheme of regulation than Congress has decided upon.
In the, absence of Federal action, effect may not be denied to the laws
of the State enacted within the field which it is entitled to occupy
until its authority is limited through the exertion by Congress of its
paramount constitutional power.
As to whether the rates are confiscatory, held that:
The rate-making power is a legislative power and necessarily implies
a iange of legislative discretion.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Syllabus.

This court does not sit as a board of review to substitute its judgment
for that of the legislature or of the commission lawfully constituted
by it, as to matters within the province of either.
The question involved is whether, in prescribing a general schedule of
rates involving the profitableness of the intrastate operations of the
carrier, taken as a whole, the State has superseded the constitutional
limit by making the rates confiscatory.
While the property of railroad corporations has been devoted to a
public use, the State has not seen fit to undertake the service itself
and the private property embarked in it is not placed at the mercy
of legislative caprice, but rests secure under the constitutional protection which extends not merely to the title, but to the right to receive just compensation for the services given to the lublic.
For fixing rates the basis of calculation of value is the fair value' of the
property of the carrier used for the convenience of the public. Smyth
v. Ames, 169.U. S. 466.
There is no formula for the ascertainment of he fair value of property
used for convenience of the public,,but there .must be a reasonable
judgment having its basis in a proper consideration of all relevant
facts.
Where a carrier does both interstate and intrastate business, to determine whether a scheme of maximum intrastate rates affords a fair
return the value of the property employed in intrastate business
and the rates prescribed must be considered separately, and profits
and losses on interstate business cannot be offset.
Assets and property of a carrier not used in the transportation business
cannot be included in the valuation as a basis for rate making.
Property of a railroad company cannot be valued for a basis of rate
making at a price above other similar property solely by reason of the
fact that it is used as a railroad, and increases in value over cost cannot be allowed beyond the normal increase of other similar property.
In valuing the plant of a carrier for purpose of fixing rates there should
be proper deductions for depreciation.
Where the constitutional validity of state action is involved general
estimates of division between interstate and intrastate business cannot"be accepted as adequate proof to sustain a charge of confiscation.
In the cases of the Northern Pacific and Great Northern companies
on the examination of estimates of value, and methods of apportionment, held that the proof is insufficient to justify a finding that the
rates were confiscatory; and in each of those cases the decree@ are
reversed with instructions to dismiss the bill without prejudice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

230 U. S.

In the case of the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, held,
'in view of the special facts appearing, that the margin of error in
the estimates and calculations was not sufficient to affect the result.
The decree in that case, adjudging the rates to be confiscatory, is
therefore affirmed with the modification that the State may apply
to the court by bill or otherwise, as advised; for a further order or
decree whenever it shall appear that by reason of a change in circumstances the rates fixed by the State's acts and orders are sufficient
to yield, to this company reasonable compensation for the services
rendered.
184 Fed. Rep. 765, modified and in part affirmed and in part reversed.

THasE appeals involve the validity of the orders of the
Railroad and Warehouse Commission, and the legislative
acts, of the State of Minnesota prescribing maximum rates
for freight, and a maximum fare of two cents a mile for
passengers. The rates relate to traffic exclusively between

points in the State. It was contended, however, that as
applied to cities on the State's boundary, or to places

within competitive districts crossed by the state line, the
rates disturbed the relation previously existing between

interstate and intrastate rates, thus imposing a direct
burden upon interstate commerce and creating discriminations as against localities in other States.

The rates

were also assailed as confiscatory.
Mr. Thomas D. O'Brien for appellants:

The judgments in the court below enjoined the enforcement of three distinct schedules. The first of these was
prescribed September 6, 1906, by an order of the Railroad
& Warehouse Commission after ai exhaustive hearing.

It was accepted by the carriers and put in operation, and
remained in effect until the entry of the judgments in

191L. The subsequent enactment of the passenger and
commodity rates by the legislature of Minnesota had
no effect upon the validity of the merchandise rates thus

voluntarily accepted by the carriers. Acceptance of those

7T IIE M INNfESOT\ RATE CASES.
3O U. S.

Argutxent for Appellants.

:'ates by the officers of fihe carriers bound the stockholders
of each company, The statutes of Minnesota prohibit
a change in a iawftily adopted rate without application
to the Railroad & Warehouse Commission, hence, the
complainants as stockholders had no cause of action to
enjoin the further observance of the rates upon classified
merchandise.
The Circuit Judge, following the findings of the Master,
determined that the carriers were entitled to a return of
seven per cent. upon the cost of reproducing new the
property devoted to the service.
This was ascertained by assuming that the railway
was non-existent, and that it was, necessary for the company now ,to acquire, under present conditions, its right
of way and terminal lands, and construct and equip the
railway as it now actually exists.
By adding to the market value, as that term has always
been understood, allowances for severance damage, cost
of acquisition and railway value, the lands were given a
purely fictitious value ranging from 130 to 225 per cent.
of the present market, value.
Part of the lands so valued were those over which an
easement for right of way had been donated by theGoveminent; others, in which an easement had been acquired
by condemnation; others, lands purchased for future use
and not now actually used for transportation purposes,
and areas in streets in municipalities upon which easements had been granted.
Property other than lands may be included under the
The assumption of reproduction
term "construction,"
being similarly fictitious as to this class of property, necessarily led to an equally false conclusion.
By following literally the fiction of reconstruction, excessive unit prices were employed upon the theory that
construction upon such a large scale would tend to enhance prices. Allowances were made for contingencies to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

230 U. S.

be encountered, engineering expenses and interest during
construction, covering the period arbitrarily taken for
completion of the assumed work. At the same time the
fact that the property, being valued, constituted a completed plant actually .earning large net returns was ignored.
Although it was found that depreciation existed, no
allowance was made on that, account; nor was a definite
amount of depreciation found, but there was offset against
depreciation "knowledge derived from experience, adaptation to the needs of the public, readiness to serve, together with physical appreciation of roadbed, and a
reasonable amount of working capital always on hand
for immediate use."
There is no relation between the depreciation of a
specific item of property, and the items thus sought to be
offset against it, nor can a Master be thus permitted to
strike a balance mentally, rather than give specific amounts
appearing upon each side of the account,
The result arrived at by this method bore no relation
to present value. It consisted in imagining every existing
condition to be absent, and substituting as facts purely
fictitious and imaginary conditions and circumstances.
Therefore the court having found as a basis upon which
to predicate rates, only "reproduction cost," arrived at
by improper methods and assumptions, and having entirely disregarded every other element going to make up
fair value, and having erroneously included many. items
of property upon which carriers are not entitled to earn
a return, there was no finding of value upon which to
compute the return, and therefore, no basis for the finding
of confiscation. Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1,
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 17; Railroad
Commission v. Cumberland Tel. C. Co., 212 U. S. .14;
Omaha v. Water Co., 218 U. S. 18.
To entitle , physical valuation, for rate making pur-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

poses, to any consideration, it must be based upon an
inventory which properly segregates the items of property. To this end land should be divided into four classes:
(a) Donated right of way; (b) secured by condemnation;
(c) purchased for prospective use; (d) secured by private
purchase.
Construction should be divided between; (e) that procured or produced by the expenditure of private means;
(f) that procured or purchased by the use of earnings.
(a) Where a right of way has been donated free of
cost it should not be included in the aggregate amount
upon which to base a return, since it is a mere privilege
granted by the public to the carrier, to enable it to make
its actual investment reasonably profitable, without the
imposition of exorbitant rates. Thus considered, the
public and the carrier obtain the full benefit of the grant.
(b) Lands secured under the right of eminent domain
should never be valued at more than original cost, since
only an easement is thus obtained, and that through the
exercise by the carrier of the governmental power delegated to it,under a free grant from the State.
(c) Lands purchased for prospective ute should not be
included, if for no other reason than this; that the practice would permit a carrier to speculate in land, the carrying charges being paid by the public.
In addition to the fact that a large portion of the estimated cost of construction accrued from the use of earnings, the items" engineering,"" contingencies" and "interest during construction" should not have been included
in the 4nventory.
Since the valuation is of specific items actually in existence, there can be no contingencies, and since no money
is to be borrowed, but upon the contrary the railway is a
going concern, producing net earnings, there is no interest to be paid. The amounts claimed necessarily depend
upon the assumptions indulged in by the estimator. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants,

230 U. S.

evidence now before this court shows these to vary to an
extent sufficient alone to demonstrate the impropriety of
their use.
Assuming that present physical value isan element
to be considered in arriving at the fair value which, as
said in Smyth v. Ames, should be taken as the basis upon
which to compute the return, the method here adopted
for'arriving at the "cost of reproduction new" does not
determine present value.
The fictions of re-acquisition and re-construction were
taken throughout as elements of value inthemselves, and
the irresistible conclusion is that the total amount found
bears no closer relation to the truth than do the assumptions upon which that amount was based.
During recent years this method for determining present
value has been frequently pressed upon the, attention of
the Interstate Coinmerce Commission, resulting in its
complete rejection by that distinguished body. Spokane
v. N. P. Ry. Co., 15 I. C. C. Rep. 376; Western Advance
Cases, 20 I. C. C. Rep. 307.
The record teems with specific instances of gross overvaluation, amounting in the aggregate to an appalling
sum, and if the method itself is now approved of, as a
matter of law, not only supervising officers, but courts as
well, will be helpless in any effort to establish reasonable
values.
In the cases of the Northern Pacific and Great Northern
companies, the capital stock admittedly represented properties of enormous values not devoted to railway purposes.
Notwithstanding this, the return which the Master finds
would be received under the rates in controversy, would
amount to a net return of seven per cent, upon the proportion of the capital stock assignable to Minnesota intra-:
state business based upon the Master's methods for the
assignment of value, while seven per cent, upon "cost of
reproduction new," as here found would result in a return,

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

basing the computation upon the capitalization when the
suits were commenced, of more than fifteen per cent. to
the Northern Pacific and more than eighteen per cent. to
the Great Northern.
The total capitalization of the three railway companies
here considered (Minneapolis & St. Louis, Minnesota proportion only) was, January 1, 1905, in millions 596. Reproduction cost as found 931, or 156.26% of capitalization.
Apply this ratio to all the railways in the United States,
and we have capitalization of about. 18,890 millions;
reproduction cost over 29,000 millions; actual excess about
10,627 millions. To'return seven per cent. upon the excess
alone would require the sum of 744 million dollars per
annum. It is impossible to imagine that confiscation can
be predicated upon a result arrived at by any such method.
Mr. Edward T. Young, also for the appellants:
In holding that the rates here involved violated the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, the court
below held in effect:
That in addition to its plenary power of control over
interstate commerce, Congress also has power to prescribe the standards and rules for the regulation of intrastate commerce, so as to prevent intrastate rates from
indirectly affecting interstate rates.
That notwithstanding the express declaration of the
Interstate Commerce Act that its provisions do not apply
to intrastate commerce, that act does nevertheless so apply, and in such application it amounts to an exercise by
Congress of its power over intrastate commerce.
That differences between interstate and intrastate rates
amount to discrimination between localities as the same
is prohibited by the Interstate Commerce Act, though the
intrastate rates be prescribed by public authority and
the interstate rates be fixed by the carriers themselves,
without regard to the inherent reasonableness or unreason-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

230 U. S.

ableness of either set of rates as to the traffic to which they
apply, and in all such cases the intrastate rates are void.
That under the Interstate Commerce Law, railroads
have such a vested right to the inviolable enjoyment of
interstate rates fixed by themselves regardless of their
inherent reasonableness, that they may, under the plea of
discrimination between localities, prevent a State from
fixing fair and reasonable rates for its internal commerce,
if such reasonable intrastate rates differ from, and might
therefore- indirectly, menace the continuation of the
interstate rates made by the carriers.
That the indirect or incidental effect of state-made
rates on interstate rates may amount to unconstitutional
"interference" if it is substantial in degree, and the extent
of such indirect effect, and whether it is sufficient in
degree to be unconstitutional must be determined by the
court as a question of fact whenever it is raised.
Each of the foregoing propositions is at variance with
the theory of-our dual form of government, and contrary
to every decision of this court. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
194; Sands v. Manistee R. I. Co., 123"U. S. 288, 295;
Ill. C-ent. R. Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514; Howard v.
Ill. Cent. R. Co., 207 U. S.463; M. P. R. Co. v.: Kansas,
216 U. S.262.
As to apportioning value, the court below erroneously
made the apportionment of the value of the property used
in common in interstate and intrastate business on relative
revenue for the year of the test, thereby assigning to
intrastate business a much higher proportion of the
value of the property than the volume of intrastate business for the same period measured in ton and passenger
miles, bears to the interstate business done in the State.
As to apportioning common' cost, there is a difference in the cost of handling interstate and intrastate
freight, arising mainly out of the different train service it
receives.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

There are two classes of freight trains, the "through,"
which runs from end to end of a division without change,
and the "local," which transacts business at intermediate
stations. The local train is the more expensive, and the
through trains the less expensive.
Each of these trains carries state and interstate commerce. Therefore, to determine the cost of each class of
business it is necessary to first ascertain the cost of each
class of trains upon each division; next to ascertain the
tonnage of each class of freight upon these respective
trains; and thereafter, the determination of the average
cost per ton-mile of each class, state and interstate, is
a comparatively simple mathematical problem.
The appellants by the testimony of their accountant, as
well as by the admissions made upon cross-examination of
witnesses called by appellees, demonstrated that by the
application of modern cost accounting, the cost of each
class of service could be determined with substantial
mathematical accuracy.
The court below erroneously based its findings on
opinions eipressed by railway officials who confessedly
ignored the most important consideration going to make
up the difference in cost, namely, whether the articles were
carried upon through or local trains upon each operating
division, and without attempting to distinguish between
--cost items incurred in the actual hauling of freight, and
those incurred in the general maintenance of the business.
The extra cost thus imposed upon intrastate business
was much in excess of What the facts -would warrant.
Mr. George T. Simpson, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, and Mr. Lyndon A. Smith were on the brief, for
appellants:
Mr. Clifford Thorne, Mr. H. T. Clarke, Jr., Mr. Geo. A.
Henshaw, Mr. John Marshall, Mr. Royal C. Johnson,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

230 U. S.

Mr. P. W. Dougherty, Mr. Grant G. Martin, Mr. U. G.
Powell, Mr. John H. Henderson, Mr. Dwight N. Lewis,
Mr. William D. Williams, Mr. W. H. Stutsman and Mr. H.
R. Oglesby, by leave of the court, filed a brief as amici
curice on behalf of the Railroad Commissions of Nebraska,
Iowa, Kansas, South Dakota, North Dakota, Oklahoma,
Missouri and Texas:
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for appellees.
The state rates operate directly and necessarily upon
commerce among the States, destroying that commerce
and the regulation thereof by Federal authority.
This is affirmed as a fact, as to which it was found by
the Master:
In 1906 the railway companies were carrying passengers and freight locally within Minnesota at the same
charges established for the same distances by interstate
tariffs filed with the national commission.
The Railroad and Warehouse Commission made a
reduction in all class rates, effective November 15, 1906,
amounting from twenty to twenty-five per -cent. The
legislature (Laws of 1907, c. 232) ordered a reduction
amounting to over seven per cent. in charges on grain,
lumber, live animals and coal, and by Laws 1907, c. 97,
reduced passenger fares from three to two cents per
mile.
Among other things, the Master found that local and
interstate freight and passengers are handled by the
same employ6s and facilities, are carried in the same
trains and in the same cars and must be handled in this
manner in the exercise of fair economy; that much the
larger part of business transported in or through Minnesota
is interstate; that conditions of transportation of traffic in
Wisconsin, rMinnesota, North and South Dakota, and, as
to much traffic, conditions in Montana, are the same
whether the transportation is local in a State or between

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

States; that both the local and interstate traffic in question move from the same and similar points of origin and
to the same and similar destinations, and that any substantial change in local rates without a corresponding
change in interstate rates would constitute unjust disorimination.
It was found also that the local rates were reduced to a
basis below the interstate rates for much longer hauls,
established under the Interstate Commerce Act and
partly by express orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, applicable to traffic between Minnesota and
other States and from one State to another extending
across Minnesota; and that the local rates decreased to
such an extent with distance that extending them for
considerable distances beyond the state line showed
enormous discrepancies between the extended state rates
and the established interstate rates.
The operation on interstate commerce of the said Minnesota laws and commission orders was found to be immediate, direct and substantial in the following respects: (a) in
destroying interstate rates; (b) in destroying interstate
commerce by substituting local in lieu of interstate rail
movement; (c) in turning over to one carrier the interstate commerce of another, which would occur in many
cases unless the competing carrier would adopt the sthte
rate for its interstate business; (d) in destroying the
interstate commerce of cities of other States, should the
carriers serving them fail to apply to them rates on the
basis of the Minnesota rates.
On the findings appellees contend that:
If the carrier should obey the Minnesota laws and
orders and reduce its rates to the line of the State, it could
not maintain its previously existing higher interstate
rates to and from points beyond the state line without
violating the third section of the Interstate Commerce
Law, which forbids unjust disciimination; that the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

230 U. S.

answer attempted to be made to this contention, viz.,
that such a difference in rates would be only a difference
and not a discrimination, is unsound. Appellants contend
that the power of the States to regulate their internal
commerce is equal to the power of Congress to regulate
commerce among the States; that the two regulating
authorities are like sovereigns foreign to and independent
of each other, and consequently Congress cannot prohibit, under its power to regulate commerce, discriminations in favor of commerce wholly within a State as
against commerce among the States. Appellees contend,
however, that this sort of discrimination was largely, even
principally, what the commerce clause in the Federal
Constitution was intended to prevent; that the power
over commerce with foreign nations and among the States
is vested in Congress as absolutely as it would be in a
single general government were there no States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 197; Champion v. Ames, 188
U. S. 321, 347; Welton v. Missouri, .9i U. S. 275, 280;
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 696; Gloucester Ferry
Company v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 203; Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 493; Northern
Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; 349. The
framers of the Constitution never intended that the
legislative power of the Nation should find itself incapable
of disposing of a subject-matter specifically committed
to its charge. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 562,
Congress may lawfully exercise, and has long exercised,
exclusive power to regulate navigation and conmmerce by
water, even navigation and commerce wholly local within
a State. Such action implies no direct power to invade
the State, but is necessarily incidental to the power
expressly granted to Congress to regulate commerce
among the States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 204;
Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S. 379, 387; The Daniel Ball,
10 Wall. 557; The Hazel Kirke, 25 Fed. Rep. 601; Oyster

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellecs.

Police Steamers, 31 Fed. Rep. 763; Pattersonv. Bark Eudora,
190 U. S. 169; In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1; The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558, 577. The power to regulate commerce is
the true foundation of the laws of Congress touching
navigation. It is difficult to maintain the suggestion in
Butler v. Boston Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527, and In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, that Congress has any broader authority
than the commerce power by virtue of Art. III, ยง 2, of the
Constitution, granting judicial power to the Federal
courts; because, if this grant of judicial power be held
to contain a grant of power to Congress over maritime
matters, it would appear to follow that, by the grant of
power to the courts to try actions between States, between
citizens of different States and between aliens and citizens
of a State, Congress was given power to pass laws applicable to those controversies.
In Gibbons v. Ogden, p. 195, it was held within the
power of. Congress to regulate those concerns wholly
within a State which affect the States generally and which
it was necessary to interfere with for the purpose of executing any general power of the government. On this
principle it was said, p. 203, Gibbons v. Ogden, that the
legislature 6f thi Union could interfere with and overrule
state health and inspection laws wherever necessary for
national purposes. See Chief Justice Savage in Stedimboat Co. v. Livingston, 3 Cow. 713, 745.
The power of Congress over land commerce is identical
with, and as complete as, its control over water commerce.
The Daniel Ball, p. 565; Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. 4. 312, 341; California v. Cent. Pac.
R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1, 39; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 589,
591.
The power of Congress incidentally to regulate, where
necessary, internal affairs of a State is a doctrine of general
application not confined to commerce by water and is
based on the necessity for such exercise of power in order

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

230 U. S.

to make effective some grant of power to Congress in the
Federal Constitution. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
p. 426, was planted upon this doctrine and holds that the
Federal power modifies, and where necessary may overrule,
state power of taxation. IhSouthern Railway Company v.
Uited States, 222 U. S. 20, the court rested on the
same ground the power of Congress to regulate as to safety
appliances all the cars and engines of a railway, including
those engaged wholly in commerce within a State, the
reason being that such regulation of internal commerce
is necessary to make the National power effective. The
same principle has been applied to hours of labor of railway employ6s engaged partly in commerce local within a
State. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm.,
221 U. S. 612; State v. Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co., 136 Wisconsin, 407. The same doctrine was involved in United
States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72.
The rule therefore is universal that the powers of
Congress extend incidentally to affect the internal affairs
of the States and control state power and state action so
far as may be necessary to execute at all times and under
all conditions every authority vested in Congress by the
Constitution.
On this established principle state power to fix local
rates is subordinate to, the commerce power of Congress;
as much subordinate as it is to other provisions of the
Federal Constitution, e. g., state power to fix rates is
controlled by the Federal prohibition against violation of
the obligation of contract and by the Fourteenth Amendmnent
prohibiting States from taking property without (uc"
process of law.
The power of Congress has been executed in some

respects fully, in other respects partially, by the Act to
Regulate Commerce. The third section prohibits not some
but all undue or unreasonable preference or advantage.
To this extent it is a complete exercise of the power

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
2.0 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

'e:sted in Congress and, as before shown, must be held
to forbid preference and advantage in favor of local
commerce within a State as compared with interstate
commerce. This law requires rates to be filed and gives
the commission power to fix rates. Such rates are in
either case the only lawful rates and no judicial inquiry
lies as to their reasonableness. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.
If the act of Congress forbids discrimination as between interstate business and business local within a State,
1ollision is established between the state law and the act
of Congress. it must be admitted that the power of
Congress is paramount and that the state power must
give way. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 405-6, 426;
Ghulf, Col. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 332,
335, 347; tiibbons v. Ogden, pp. 195, 209; License Cases,
5 How. 574; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S.
463.
It appears therefore to be a pure question of fact
whether the state rates do destroy, impede or directly
operate upon interstate commerce and interstate rates.
If they do, the Federal power is shown to be ample to
prohibit such interference. Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Eubank, 184 TT, 8. 27.
The argument, that if the state rates are reasonable in
and of themseives they cannot be objected to and therefore
the whole inqu iry is as to their reasonableness, is fallacious.
The court determines only whether rates are confiscatory
and cannot entertain the broader question of their reasonableness, nor can this be determined by any mathematical
formula. Public policy of the Nation may be to permit
carriers a large return. Public policy of a State may be to
permit but a small one. in such a conflict National
authority controls. There being no mathematical measure of reasonableness, Congress has set up a standardvoL. ccxxx--,24

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for AppeUees.

230 U. S.

the published tariff and the findings of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. This standard controls commerce among the States and any state rate inconsistent
therewith, or destructive thereof, is unreasonable measured by that standard.
In many gases state action has been for the purpose of
protecting home industry, of destroying commerce among
the States by substituting therefor state commerce, of
destroying National regulation by substituting therefor
state regulation. See report of Iowa Railroad Commission
for year ending December 7, 1909, p. 14; In Matterof Freight
Rates, 11 I. C. C. 209; Saunders v. Southern Express
Co., 18 I. C. C. 415; Meredith v. St. Louis Southwestern
Ry. Co., recently decided by the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
The proviso in ยง I of the Interstate Commerce Act,
that the act does not apply to transportation wholly within
a State, shows that Congress has not exercised its complete power and has intended to leave to the States the
regulation of transportation which is wholly, completely
and purely internal, but it does not indicate an intention of
Congress to exercise less than its full power to prevent
discriminations against transportation among the States,
less than its complete power to prevent the favoring of
any State at the expense of other States and of the country
at large. It cannot be read as a grant of power, either to
States or to carriers chartered by them, to create against
the people of other States and their traffic whatever discrimination a State may choose.
It is not contended that any transportation is free from
regulation. In view of the proviso of ยง 1 of the Commerce
Act, the States may fix local rates and prevent discriminations as between them as well as prevent discriminations
against local commerce in favor of interstate commerce.
State power and state action must give way to whatever extent is necessary to complete an efficient National

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
2.30 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

(ontrol over the subjects committed to that control by

the Constitution; that reduction by a State of its domestic
rates is permissible until such reduction interferes with
interstate rates, or with the free flow of interstate com.merce, or with the regulation under congressional authority of commerce among the States, but that the States have
no right to reduce their local rates below the interstate
rates lawfully established and thus to impede or destroy
interstate eom.merce, or destroy the regulations and rates
touching the same as they have been. established under
National auth ,,rity,
Mr. Pierce tBudCr, with whom Mr. Hale Holden, Mr.
JaredHow and )r., William D. Mitchell were on the brief,
also for appellees:
Appellants' contentions in regard to the valuation of
railroad properties are unsound. Appellees contend that
the well established principles of law applicable are:
Railroad corporations are persons within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment;
Railroad property is private property, subject to public
use under just regulations. Railroad Commission Cases,
116 U. S. 307, 331; C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co., v. Minnesota,
134 U. S. 418, 58; Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154
V. S. 362, 399, 410; Int. Com. Comm. v. C. G. W. Ry.Co.,
209 U. S. 10S.
The hazards affect,ing railroad property inhere in the
Fa,t that while in a reasare such property performs a
liunction of the State there is no guaranty to its owners
against lo'ss,
The right to increase in value inheres in the very terms
of the constitutional guaranties against taking property
without due process of law.
P'ulblic grants of lands itrailroad compaies in Minnesota consrtitute contracis hased uLpon valuable consi((erations. First Div. S t. Paul & Pacific R. Co. v. Parcher, II

OCTOBER TERIVI.,

191.

Argument for Appelle.

230 U. S.

Minnesota, 297; City of St. Paul v. St. Paul & Sioux City

Ry. Co., 23 Minnesota, 469; State v. Winona & St. Peter
R. R. Co., 21 Minnesota, 472; M. & St, L. R?. R. Co. v.
Koerner, 85 Minnesota, 149; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. V.
Townsend, 190 U. S. 267.
Income derived from the public through rates charged
for services rendered belongs to the owners of the property.
Under laws requiring the publication of charges, the
amounts thereof must be collected and are prima facie
reasonable. Willcox v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 212 U, S. 19;
Brymer v. Butler Wafer Co., 179 Pa. St. 331, 36 Atl. Rep.
249.
There must be a fair return upon the reasonable value
of the property at the time it is being used for the public,
unless, in exceptional cases, the enforcement of rates
necessary for that purpose would be unjust to the public.
Stanislaus County v. San JoaquinCanal Co., 192 U. S. 201;
San Diego Land Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439; San Diego
Land Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739; Knoxville v.
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Willcox v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 212
U. S. 19; S. C., 157 Fed. Rep. 849; Mo., Kans. & Tex. Ry.
Co. v. Love, 177 Fed. Rep. 493; Shepard v. Nor. Pac. Ry.
Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 765.
The original cost of the property as well as the outstanding capital in stocks and bonds, while admissible in
evidence, are matters for consideration only in so far as
in the particular case they axe competent evidence of
present value.

Where original cost or outstaad.ig capital have appeared to be in excess of present value the courts have de-,
clined to determine the validity of rates upon either as a
basis of value. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. . 546; San Diego
Land Co. Cases, supra.
The general rule is that where the property has been
efficiently located, constructed and maintained and results of operation as a whole show volume of traffic aml

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Argumeni for Appellees.

earnings sufficient to support the property, pay reasonable
dividends and leave something in addition, the true value
is in excess of the mere cost of reproduction of the physical
or tangible property. Cases supra, and A., T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Sullivan, 173 Fed. Rep. 456; M., K. & T.
Ry. Co. v. Love, 177 Fed. Rep. 493; Waterworks Co. v.
Kansas City, 62 Fed. Rep. 853, 864; Southern Pac. Co. v.
Bartine, 170 Fed. Rep. 725, 751; Metropolitan Trust Co. v.
Houston &' Tex. Cent. Ry. Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 683; Spring
Valley WaterWorks v. San Francisco, 124 Fed. Rep. 574,
594; Kennebec Water District v. Waterville, 97 Maine, 185;
Water District v. Water Co., 99 Maine, 371; Proposed Advance in Freight Rates, 9 I. C. C. 402; Ames v. Railroad, 64
Fed. Rep. 165; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 82
Fed. Rep. 850; S. C., 183 U. S. 79, 91.
Cost of reproduction of the tangible property is an
element of prime importance in determining present
value.
A carrier owning property which is valuable for railroad
terminals has in law the right to the full and true value
of them as measured by every legitimate standardgenerally for any and all uses for which it might be suited.
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Boon Co.
v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403.
Railroad utility is a higher use than ordinary business,
residence or farm use and makes for higher cost and therefore higher value. Vol. 10, Nor. Pac. Exam. Morgan Nor.
Pa(.
As to operating expen..,,es:
The intrastate rates fixed by the C,ommission cannot
be sustained, on the ground that the earnings from all
business--interstate and intrastate-in the State are
sufficient. That ground cannot be sustained.
It is necessary to take into account the cost of doing
the business covered by the rates complained of.
Intrastate business, both freight and passenger, has

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

230 U. S.

been found in all the reported cases to have been attended
by much higher cost than corresponding interstate business.
The cost of intrastate business may be indicated:
By the relation of the 'cost of the intrastate unit (the
tonh mile or i the passenger mile) to the cost of the corresponding interstate unit.
By the relation of the cost of the intrastate business in
proportion to revenue derived therefrom to the cost of
the corresponding interstate business in proportion to
revenue derived therefrom, i. e., the cost to earn a dollar
in the one class to the cost to earn a dollar in the other.
The relation of the cost of the intrastate business in
proportion to revenue derived therefrom to the cost of all
business on the system-or within the State-in proportion to the revenue derived therefrom.
The revenue derived from the intrastate business must
be found and compared with the cost'thereof.
The exact cost of doing either class of business, either
intrastate or interstate, has never been kept by any railroad company. There is no recognized method for the
keeping of such cost in railroad accounts, or for its ascertainment with mathematical exactness.
The courts and men experienced in such. matters agree
that, while the exact cost of doing either of such classes
of business cannot be shown, the opinions of experts,
familiar with conditions bearing upon the relation of cost
of the intrastate business to that of the interstate business,
furnish the only guide for such determination.
In all reported cases it has been found that it costs
substantially more to earn a dollar in the intrastate than
in the corresponding interstate business-and very much
more to produce a ton-mile in the intrastate freight business than in the interstate freight business.
That the cost to produce a ton-mile (where the relation
of cost is expressed on that basis) has never been found to

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U.S.

Argument for Appellees.

be less than two and one-half times as much in the intrastate business as in the interstate business.
Neither the "straight ton-mile basis" or the "straight
revenue basis" has ever been found to fairly divide freight
operating expenses between the intrastate business and
the interstate business, because the intrastate business
costs more per ton per mile and has always been found to
cost more in proportion to revenue than in the corresponding interstate business.
In all cases a fair division of freight operating expenses
may be made between intrastate business and interstate
business on either the "Equated Ton-Mile Basis" or the
"Equated Revenue Basis," as found and used by the master. Each basis may be expressed in terms of the other and
the result is the same whether one or the other is used.
It costs more to produce an intrastate passenger mile
than an interstate passenger mile, but such proportion of
extra cost is usually, if not always, less in the passenger
department than the corresponding extra cost of producing an intrastate ton-mile in the freight department.
Passenger operating expenses may fairly be divided between intrastate business and interstate business on the
"Equated Passenger Mile Basis" or the "Equated Revenue Basis" as found and employed by the Master in these
cases.
The value of services rendered the public is gTeater than
the rates therefor in effect immediately before the making
of the orders and laws complained of.
Rates have been reduced greatly from time to time.
The cost of other service and of commodities generallyespecially of labor and supplies required to operate railroads-has advanced greatly during recent years.
A rate of return to be reasonably adequate must be
higher than seveV per cent upon the value of the property
used, at the time it is used, to render the service covered
by the rates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U.

.

As to fair returns from banks, railroads, and public
utility corporations, etc'd, see Willcox v. Consolidated Gas
Co., 212 U. S. 19; Ames v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 64
Fed. Rep. 165, 186, 187; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Philadelphia County, 68 Atl. Rep. 676; Brymer v. Butler Water
Co., 179 Pa. St. 331, S. C., 36 Atl. Rep. 249, 36 L. R. A!
250; Spokane v. Northern Pacific Ty. Co., 15 I. C. C. 417;
Report Railroad Securities Commission, under ยง 16 of
the act of June 18, 1911; M., K. k '. Ry. Co. v. Love, 177
Fed. Rep. 493, 501, and numerous cases cited in the opinion of the court below.
Mr, W. P. Clough filed a brief in behalf of the Northern
Pacific Railway Company and the treat Northern Railway Company, appellees.
Mr. Edmund S. Durment, by leave of the court, filed
a brief as amicus curim.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES deliveredcthe opinion of the

court.
These suits were brought by stoekhold&rs of the Northern Pacific Railway Company, the Great Northern Railway Company and the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Company, respectively, to restrain the enforcement of
two orders of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission
of the State of Minnesota and two acts of the legislature
of that State prescribing maximum charges for transportation of freight and passengers, and to prevelt the
adoption or maintenance of these rates by the railroad
companies. In addition to the companies, the AttorneyGeneral of the State, the members of the Railroad and
Warehouse Commission, and also, in the cases of the
Northern Pacific and Great Northern companies, certain
representative shippers, were made defendants.

THE MINNESOTA 'RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The order and acts, which by their terms related solely
to charges for intrastate transportation, were as follows:
(1) The Commission's order' of September 6, 1906,
effective November 15, 1906, fixing the maximum class
rates for general merchandise.
(2) The act, approved April 4, 1907, to take effect
May 1, 1907, prescribing two cents a mile as the maximum
fare for passengers, except for those under twelve years
of age, for whom the maximum rate was to be one cent a
mile. (Laws of 1907, c. 97.)
(3) The act, approved April 18, 1907, to take effect
June 1, 1907, fixing maximum commodity rates for carload lots of specified weights. (Laws of 1907, chap. 232.)
(4) The Commission's order of May 3, 1907, effective
June 3, 1907, establishing maximum "in-rates" for designated commodities in carload lots from St. Paul, Minneapolis, Minnesota Transfer and Duluth to certain distributing centers. (No complaint is made of this order in
the case of the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company.)
In 1905, the legislature of Minnesota had adopted a
joint resolution directing the Commission "to undertake
the work of securing a readjustment of the existing freight
rates in this State, which will give a more uniform system
of rates throughout the State and a uniform scale of percentages which each class rate shall bear to the first
class, the readjustment to secure a substantial reduction
iii the existing merchandise rates."
(Laws of 1905,
c. 150, p. 631.) Pursuant to this direction, the Coinmission conducted a prolonged investigation.
Public
hearings were held extending over several months in which
the railroad companies took an active part, submitting
a large amount of testimony with respect to the matters
involved. The Commission found the existing class rates
for general merchandise to be unreasonable and by the
order of September 6, 1906, above mentioned, established

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

a new schedule of lower maximum rates. These rates
were applied to the classes shown by the so-called "Western :Classification" between stations in the State. This
was a classification, by which articles were arranged in
groups with reference to their general character, value
and the cost of transportation, and with modifications
made from time to time; it had long been used by common
carriers in the west and northwest as a basis for rates, the
commodities of each class taking the same rate under like
conditions. In Minnesota, however, a large number of
commodities, amounting to several hundred, had, by the
intervention of the Commission, been removed from this
classification by the application of special rates known as
"commodity rates" or reduced in class so that the Western
Classification in operation in that State was very materially different from that in general use as a basis of rates
in other States.
The schedule of rates set forth in the order of September 6, was such that each rate for each class bore an exact
relation to each other rate. The plan of the schedule was
this: For first-class merchandise an allowance of .11.02 cents
per cwt., was made for terminal charges and in addition,
there was permitted a hauling charge of .98 of a cent for
each five miles up to 200 miles, for each ten miles over 200
miles up to 400 miles, and for each twenty miles over 400
miles up to 500 miles. For other classes, the rates were
a fixed per centum of the corresponding rates for the first
class. These rates were maximum terminal rates; that is,
they related to transportation to or from 0ertain important
stations called terminal or distributing stations. Between
stations neither of which is so designated the rates of the
schedule might be increased by five per centum.
The railway companies complied with this order and
the class rates were put into effect on November 15, 1906.
The Commission also had under consideration a reduction in the commodity rates, at which certain commodities

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such as grain, coal, lumber, and live stock were moved in
carload lots. Because of the agitation with respect to
these charges, the railroad companies voluntarily reduced
their rates about ten per cent. on grain (September 1, 1906)
and coal (October 22, 1906). The Commission, however,
on December 14, 1906, ordered a further reduction in the
commodity rates. The railroad companies brought suit
in the Circuit Court of the United States and obtained a
temporary injunction restraining the enforcement of this
order. Thereupon the legislature passed the act above
mentioned, approved April 18, 1907, which established
a. new schedule of maximum commodity rates in all respects like that fixed by the Commission save that the
reduction was not so great. The act grouped the various
commodities which it embraced in severai classes, for
which different rates were prescribed. There was no fixed
percentage relation between the classes and no regular
rate of progression of the various charges with increasing
distance. In other respects the method of making the
schedules was similar to that adopted in the order of
September 6, 1906, the hauling charge decreasing as the
mileage increases.
The remaining action with respect to freight rates was
taken by the Commission in the order of May 3, 1907,
for the purpose of securing more favorable in-rates to a
number of minor jobbing centers. It applied to certain
commodities, such as groceries in carload lots, and was
supplemental to the order of September 6, 1906, being
intended to restablish the relation which had previously
existed between the in-rates to these distributing points
and the general schedule of class rates.
The railroad companies obeyed this order of May 3,1907,
as they had that of September 6, 1906, and they also put
into effect the passenger rate of two cents a mile. They
were about to adopt the commodity rates fixed by the act
of April 18, 1907, when these suits were brought and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

temporary injunction restrained them from taking that
course. The other rates, that is, the class rates, special
in-rates and the passenger rates were permitted to remain
in force pending the suits.
The complainants assailed the acts and orders upon the
grounds (1) that they amounted to, an unconstitutional
interference with interstate commerce, (2) that they were
confiscatory and (3) that the penalties imposed for their
violation were so severe as to result in a denial of the
equal protection of the laws and a deprivation of property
without due process of law. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was sustained in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
123, where it was also held that the penal provisions of
the acts, operating to preclude a fair opportunity to test
their validity, were unconstitutional on their face. The
Circuit Court then referred the suits to a special master,
who took the evidence and made an elaborate report sustaining the complainants' contentions. His findings were
confirmed by the court and decrees were entered accordingly, adjudging the acts and orders (with the exception,
in the case of the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Company, of the order of May 3, 1907) to be void and
permanently enjoining the enforcement of the prescribed
rates, freight and passenger, and their adoption or maintenance by the railroad companies. 184 Fed. Rep. 765.
From these decrees, the Attorney-General of the State
and the members of the Railroad and Warehouse Comm ission prosecute these appeals.
The penal provisions being separable (Reagan v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 395; Willcox v.
ConsolidatedGas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 53, 54; GrenadaLumber
Co. v. Mississippi,217 U. S. 433, 443; West. Un. Tel. Co.
v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160, 172), the question of the
validity of the acts and orders fixing maximum rates is
presented in two distinct aspects, (1) with respect to their

THE MINNESOT \ RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of t,J Court.

effect on interstate commerce, and (2) as to their alleged
confiscatory character.
First. As to interference with interstate commerce.
None of the acts and orders prescribes rates for goods or
persons moving in interstate commerce. By their terms,
they apply solely to commerce that is internal. Despite
this obvious purport it has been found below that the
inevitable effect of the State's requirements for intrastate
transportation was to impose a direct burden upon interstate commerce and to create unjust discriminations between localities in Minnesota and those in adjoining
States; and hence that they must fall as repugnant to
the commerce clause and to the action of Congress under
it. To support its conclusion, the Circuit Court presents
an impressive array of facts drawn from the approved
findings of the master. (184 Fed. Rep. 775-792.) Without
giving all the details they embrace, these findings may be
summarized as follows:
1. The railroad property of each of the three companies
constitutes a single system. On June 30, 1906, the Northern Pacific Railway Company (a Wisconsin corporation)
operated 7,695 miles of track, of which 1,625 miles were
in Minnesota. The Great Northern Railway Company
(a Minnesota corporation) at the same time operated
8,528 miles of track, of which 2,779 miles were in Minnesota. Their lines, extend westerly from Superior, Wisconsin, and Duluth, Minnesota, and from St. Paul and
Minneapolis, through the States of Minnesota, North
Dakota, Montana, Idaho, Washington and Oregon, to
the Pacific Coast. The Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company (also a Minnesota Corporation) operated
1,028 miles of track running from St Paul and Minneapolis westerly afid southerly to points in South Dakota
and Iowa. In the case of each company, the movement
of interstate and local traffic takes place at the same time,
on the same rails, with the same employds, and largely

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

by means of the same trains and cars. There has never
been a separation, and it is impracticable in the exercise
of fair economy to make a, separation, between the inter-,
state and intrastate business in the case either of freight
or of passengers. By far the larger part of the traffic is
interstate. In the year 1906 the freight business of the
Northern Pacific Company, local to Minnesota, was 2.67
per cent. of its entire freight business and 12.33 per cent.
of. its freight business touching the State, and its passenger
business local to the State was 5.79 per cent. of its -entire
passenger business and 67.21 per cent. of its passenger
business touching the State.
The conditions attending the transportation of passengers and freight are substantially the same for like distances within those portions of the States of Wisconsin,
Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota reached by
the lines of these companies, whether the transportation
is interstate or wholly intrastate. Prior to the acts and
orders in question, the companies had maintained rates
which were relatively fair and not discriminatory as between interstate and intrastate business; and it is concluded that any substantial change in the basis of rates
thus established due only to the fact that the transportation was interstate or was local to a State, and any substantial difference in rates as between the two sorts of traffic,
would constitute unjust discrimination in fact.
I. The state line- of Minnesota on the east and west
runs between cities which are in close proximity. Superior,
Wisconsin, and Duluth, Minnesota, .are side by side at the
extremity of Lake Superior. Opposite one another, on the
western boundary of the State, lie Grand Forks, North
Dakota, and East Grand Forks, Minnesota; Fargo,
North Dakota, and Moorhead, Minnesota; and Wahpeton,
North Dakota, and Breckenridge, Minnesota. The cities
in each pair ship and receive, to and from the same
!oalities, the sme kinds of freight. The railroad, com-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

panies have always put each on a parity with the other in
the matter of rates, and if there were a substantial difference it would cause serious injury to the commerce of the
city having the higher rate. If the Northern Pacific
Company failed to maintain as low rates on traffic in and
out of Superior as on that to and from Duluth, its power to
transact interstate business between Superior and points
in Minnesota would be seriously impaired and the value of
its property in Superior would be depreciated.
The maximum class rates fixed by the order of September 6, 1906, were from 20 per cent. to 25 per cent. lower
than those theretofore maintained by the Northern Pacific
and Great Northern Companies for transportation in
Wisconsin, Minnesota and North Dakota, whether such
transportation was local to one of these States or was
interstate between any two of them. When the Northern
Pacific Company, pursuant to this order, installed the
new intrastate rates, it 'reduced its interstate rates between
Superior and points in Minnesota to an exact parity with
its rates from Duluth. Reduction was also made in the
rates between both Duluth and Superior and the abovementioned points on the western boundary so as to put the
border cities in North Dakota on an equal basis with the
neighboring cities in Minnesota. This reduction was
substantial and, had it not been made, the places adjoin-,
ing the boundary, but outside the State, could not have
competed with those within. Although the Northern
Pacific Company thereby suffered a substantial loss in
revenue from its interstate business, it had the choice of
submitting to that loss or suffering substantial destruction
of its interstate commerce to these border localities in
articles covered by the orders. At the same time, the
Great Northern Company made similar reductions, although, in its case, the transportation between Duluth
and points in Minnesota was interstate-its line passing
through Wisconsin. The reason for these reductions was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

to preserve the relation in rates from Duluth which had
always existed between localities on the Great Northern
line and those similarly situated on the line of the Northern
Pacific, and to meet the reduced rates on the latter.
III. Moorhead, Minnesota, Fargo and Bismarck, North
Dakota, Billings and Butte,, Montana, are so-called
jobbing centers. Rates had always been accorded to
them by the Northern Pacific Company which would
allow them to compete with their nearest neighbors and
with St. Paul, Minneapolis and Duluth. The order of
September 6, 1906, as supplemented by that of May 3,
1907, substantially reduced carload rates from the eastern
terminals to Moorhead. This reduction would have given
Moorhead an advantage in territory accessible to its
jobbing industry not only as against Fargo, unless carload rates to Fargo were similarly reduced, but also as
against Duluth, St. Paul and Minneapolis unless lessthan-carload rates from these places to points accessible
to Moofhead, which included a considerable territory in
North Dakota, were proportionately reduced. If Fargo
were protected as against Moorhead, it would have an
advantage over Bismarck in territory common to them
both and an advantage over the eastern terminals in
territory common to them and to Fargo, unless carload
rates from the eastern terminals to Bismarck and lessthan-carload rates from those terminals to the territory
accessible to Fargo were correspondingly reduced; and so
on from distributing point to distributing point.
IV. Every rate comprelvinds two terminal charges, the
initial and the final, and a haulage charge. It is declared
to be a cardinal principle; of rate-making that a rate for a
longer distance should be proportionately smaller than
one for a shorter distance; for even if the haulage charge
in the former case were the same per mile, the rate per
ton per mile should be less for the- longer haul, as the
terminal charges would be spread over a greater distance.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A comparison disclosed that the rates established by the
order of September 6, 1906, and maintained by the
Northern Pacific Company betweenSt. Paul and Moorhead were in general substantially less than thel proportion
of the interstate rates maintained by the company to
various points in North Dakota and Montana, based on
the mileage in Minnesota as compared to that of the
entire haul. Maintaining such a relation of rates involves,
it is found, substantial and unjust discrimination in fact
against the interstate localities.
V. After the installation by the Great Northern and
Northern Pacific, Companies of the rates prescribed by the
order of September 6, 1906, it appeared that the sum of
the local rates from St. Paul to Moorhead and from Moorhead tb many points in North Dakota was less than the
interstate 'rates theretofore maintained from St. Paul
to these points. Both companies thereupon established
rates from St. Paul to the North Dakota points as a rule
no greater than the sum of the locals on Moorhead but
substantially lower in general than the interstate rates
in force when the order took effect. Maintaining interstate rates from St. Paul to North Dakota localities
substantially greater than the sum of the locals based on
the state line would have caused unjust discrimination in
fact. The actual reason for the reduction in the interstate
rates was to prevent transshipment at Moorhead in order
to take advantage of the lower sum of the locals and to
retain on its line traffic which might reach Moorhead over
other lines by reason of competition, and, as to less-thancarload lots, to enable jobbers in the Twin Cities and
'Duluth to compete with those in Moorhead and Fargo
in territory -which otherwise the latter would have exclusively occupied by reason of their closer proximity.
VI. It is further held to be one of the fundamental
dogmas of rate-making that the haulage charge per mile
should not increase with increasing distance if the condiVOL ccxxx-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

tions be the same. Under the progressive decrease in the
haulage charge within the State, provided by the order of
September 6, 1906, 100 pounds of merchandise transported
by the Northern Pacific from St. Paul to Moorhead, 248
miles, would have been hauled for 48 miles, at the rate of
.98 cents per ten miles, when Moorhead is reached. If
the same haulage charge of .98 cents per ten miles were
applied for the remaining distance to Spokane, 1,510 miles
from St. Paul, (which is said to be taken as a fair example
merely to illustrate the principle), it would produce a
rate from St. Paul to Spokane on first-class merchandise
'of $1.79 per cwt. The Interstate Commerce Commission
in the Spokane rate case fixed the reasonable rate on
first-class merchandise from St. Paul to Spokane of $2.50
per cwt. Maintaining this rate and the state schedule in
Minnesota at the same time necessarily involves the
raising of the per.mile haulage charge after the Minnesota
state line has been crossed, or the charge of a higher rate
within Minnesota for its mileage proportion of long-haul
interstate business than for business local to the State
which is carried under the same conditions, and hence is
found to result in unjust discrimination in fact against
localities west of the Minnesota line.
VII. For more than twenty-five years the Northern
Pacific Company has maintained an equal basis of rates
on merchandise between its eastern and western terminals respectively and Butte, Montana, and between its
eastern and western terminals respectively and localities
intermediate between them and Butte. Other railroads
reaching Butte have during the same time maintained like
rates to Butte from Sioux City, Omaha, St. Joseph and
Kansas City on the east, and from San Francisco, Sacramento and Los Angeles on the west. Butte has been as the
hub of a wheel with spokes representing equal rates to
these various cities. Industries, it is said, have been born
and have grown in reliance upon this parity of rates.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Intermediate points have had rates fixed in proportion to
the Butte rates. Competition of markets and of carriers
has brought this about. The Northern Pacific Company
cannot maintain the state rates between its eastern terminals and Moorhead and at the same time its interstate
ratesfrom its eastern terminals to Butte without substantial discrimination in fact against Butte or localities
intermediate between its eastern terminals and Butte.
If it lowers its rates from its eastern terminals to Butte
and intermediate stations to such an extent as to obviate
this discrimination, it must, to preserve the relation which
has always existed, lower to a like extent its rates from its
western terminals to Butte and intermediate stations.
Consequently, it is found that if the Northern Pacific
Company maintains the commission-made rates between
its eastern terminals and Moorhead it must either substantially discriminate in fact or destroy the, general
relation of rates which has existed for many years in the
territory between the Missouri River and the Pacific
Coast.
VIII. Prior to the taking effect of the order of September 6, 1906, the Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Companies had established joint through rates in connection with other carriers from all localities east or south of
Minnesota to all points in Minnesota west of St. Paul
and Minneapolis. After the rates prescribed by this order
were installed, the sum of the locals on St. Paul from all
localities south and east of Minnesota to points in Minnesota west of St. Paul and Minneapolis, was substantially
less than the then existing interstate rates for the through
haul to such western points. To avoid the resulting discrimination in favor of St. Paul, the companies withdrew
the existing interstate rates and established a new tariff
ao higher than, the sum of the locals on St. Paul.
IX. Further illustrations are given of inequalities resulting from the reduced Minnesota rates as compared

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

236,U. S.

with rates for like transportation under similar conditions
into adjoining States, as, for example, from Moorhead
easterly to Minnesota points and, westerly into North
Dakota, and also of the effects produced in the application
of the state rates by reason of the difference in the distances from St. Paul at which the state line is reached on
similar hauls over different lines, As the schedule of
September 6, 1906, prescribes a fixed relation between
rates for different distances and different classes, the conclusion is that if the rule must be adhered to in Minnesota,
it cannot be departed from ubstantially because of the
intervention of a state line at one distance or another
without involving unjust discrimination in fact.
It is found further that while, after the order of
September 6, 1906, became effective, both the Great
Northern and the Northern Pacific Companies reduced
certain interstate rates, as already mentioned, the reduction was not to such extent as to remedythe discrimination resulting from the fact that in most cases the general basis of rates within Minnesota was substantially
lower than tha maintained in NVorth Dakota or upon
traffic crossing the state line.
X. The similarity in the conditions of interstate and
intrastate transportation is found also with respect to
the commodities for which rates were prescribed by
the act of April 18, 1907 (c. 23'2). The main lines
and branches of the Northern Pacific and Great Northern
Companies within Minnesota and North Dakota, 'with
the exception of certain limited tracts, lie within grain
fields, and grain is shipped in substantial quantities from
nearly all stations in these fields to Duluth, Minneapolis
and Superior. Shipments of coal origifiate at the head
of the Lakes-that is, at Duluth or Superior-and find
their destination at all localities served by the companies
in Minnesota and eastern North Dakota. Shipments of
lumber originate at Duluth, Cloquet, Little Falls and other

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

places in Minnesota, and are destined to points throughout
Minnesota and North Dakota. Shipments of live stock
are made in Minnesota, South Dakota and eastern Montana and go to South St. Paul or Chicago. So far as the
conditions of transportation are concerned, it matters not,
as to commodities moving eastwardly, whether the shipment is made in Montana, North Dakota or Minnesota
or the transportation ends in Minnesota or in Wisconsin,
and, as to commodities moving westwardly, whether the
shipments are from Minnesota points or from Superior
or whether they find their destination in Minnesota or in
North Dakota. The conclusion is that to maintain the
commodity rates for transportation wholly within Minnesota simultaneously with the interstate rates now in
force would involve unjust discrimination and would
seriously impair the interstate business of the companies,
to avoid which it would be necessary to reduce the basis
of the interstate rates to a substantial parity with that
prescribed by the state law. It is also stated that if the
rates fixed by chapter 232 of the Laws of 1907 should become effective, the rate on shipments of wheat, with
milling-in-transit privileges, from points in Minnesota
via Minneapolis to Chicago, would be automatically reduced and that unless all interstate rates between Minnesota points and Chicago via interior mill towns with
similar privileges should be correspondingly reduced,
Minneapolis would have a substantial advantage over
such towns in it interstate rates.
XI. Prior to the act of 1907, fixing the rate of two cents
a mile, the general basis of rates for passengers (of 12 years
of age or over) between any two points on the Northern
Pacific system, had been for some years three cents a mile.
After the new state rate had been installed, the sum of the
locals between Moorhead and other Minnesota points and
Moorhead and points westerly thereof was less than the
then-existing through interstate rates. The passenger

0("FOBE'l? 'PERAM, 19121.
Opiniou of the Court.

230 U. S.

fare act took effect May 1, 1907, and in the first month
thereafter the revenue from passengers on the Northern
Pacific line between Moorhead and other Minnesota
points increased 647 per cent. over that of the corresponding month of the preceding year, while, eliminating
Moorhead business, the revenue from passenger business
within the State decreased two per cent. In June, 1907,
the second month, there were sold by the Northern Pacific
Company, 4,037 tickets between St. Paul or Minneapolis,
on the one hand, and Moorhead or East Gratid Forks oUl
the other, as compared with only 172 such tickets in the
corresponding month of ,he year before; and in June, 1907,
there were sold only 173 tickets between St. Paul or Millneapolis, aid Grand Forks and Fargo, as compared with
984 such tickets in the corresponding month of the previous
year. In May and June, 1906, only one cash full fare was
collected on a train from Moorhead to St. Paul or Minneapolis. In those months in 1907 there were 1,168 cash
full fares and 82 cash half fares so collected. Hence, it is
said, the necessary, immediate and direct effect of the
law was to deprive the Northern Pacific Company of a
substantial amount of its interstate passenger business
through Moorhead.
Notwithstanding the facility with which interstate
passengers could avoid the discrimination against them
by making two contracts with the company, it is found
that discrimination in fact still existed against the interstate passenger who applying for a through ticket did
not know that the sum of the locals on Moorhead was less
than the through rate, against the passenger with a trunk
which he could not check through unless on a through
ticket, and against a passenger who was compelled to use
a sleeping car. The Northern Pacific Company shortly
remedied this discrimination by reducing all its interstate
fares for passenger transportation through Moorhead to
an amount no greater than the sum of the locals oyer

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Moorhead. Before this reduction Wisconsin had fixed
the maximum passenger fare at two cents a mile, and
North Dakota at two and one-half cents a mile. The
rates thereafter established by the Northern Pacific Company between St. Paul, for example, and points in North
Dakota and beyond, and by the Northern Pacific Company jointly with other companies for transportation between points easterly of Minnesota and points on the
line of the Northern Pacific, were in general less than the
previous rates by approximately one cent per mile for the
mileage in Wisconsin and Minnesota, and by one-half cent
per mile for the mileage in North Dakota. It is concluded
that these reductions were compelled to avoid unjust
discrimination and in order that the companies might
transact interstate passenger business freely and without
impairment of volume.
There are added various hypothetical calculations of
the losses which would have been sustained if the basis
prescribed by the state acts and orders had been applied
to the interstate business and to local business in other
States. We shall have occasion later to refer to the actual
results of the business of the railroad companies during
the time that the rates fixed by the acts and orders (with
the excetion of the commodity rates) were in force, and
to the effect upon revenue which the adoption of the commodity rates would have had.
The foregoing findings, as stated by
the Master, were
made "without regard to the justness or otherwise in fact
of the interstate rates so affected by such local rates."
The determination of the reasonableness of the interstate
rates was not deemed to be within the province of the
court.
The appellants do not concede the correctness of the
findings in their full scope and insist upon qualifications.
They deny that the evidence justified the finding that the

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

companies had maintained "an cquabld, that is, relatively
fair basis of rates" prior to the acts and orders in question.
The general or comprehensive system of interdependent
and fairly related rates, each so equitably adjusted to the
others that any local change must of necessity throw the
whole out of balance, is declared to exist only in imagination-to be a fiction constructed in disregard of the facts
of rate-making and without attention to the inconsistencies shown by the schedules which had been in force.
The actual reductions in interstate rates, which followed
upon the adoption of the state tariffs, were made, it is
urged, in rates voluntarily established by the companies
themselves which had not been declared to be reasonable
by competent authority and in any case furnish no standard by which the validity of the action of the State, in
the control of its internal affairs, should be judged. The
appellants say that the local rates in Minnesota were
incongruous and unreasonable; that frequent changes in
the interest of favored shippers had been made through
the filing of temporary intrastate tariffs until the practice
was stopped by a statute of 1905 (Chapter 176) forbidding
changes without the consent of the Commission; that with
respect to grain and live stock, the principal agricultural
products of the State, the companies maintained an
"inharmonious jumble of arbitrary rates;" and that the
acts and orders in question were designed to correct inequalities in the intrastate tariffs and to prescribe charges
which, upon thorough investigation and after public
hearings in which the companies participated, were found
to be reasonable and were brought into suitable relation
with each other by means of a scientific plan. And it is
denied that unjust discrimination as against localities
without the State can be predicated of the establishment
of reasonable state rates.
It is also insisted that the prescribed intrastate freight
rates were not in general lower than the existing interstate

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rates. Reference is made to the long-distance traffic
which, it is said, was moved within the State on proportionals of long-haul rates which were much below the local
rates fixed by the State. It is pointed out that the Master
found, in passing upon the question whether the rates
were confiscatory, that the gross revenue which was derived from the intrastate freight business during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1908, (when all the rates in question
were in force save the commodity rates), was greater per
ton-mile than that derived in the same period from the
interstate business within the State, being in the case of
the Northern Pacific Company in the ratio of 1.4387 to 1
and in that of the Great Northern Company of 2.02894
to 1. The appellants also contest the validity of the argument based on an hypothetical extension beyond the state
line of the "rate of progression" for additional distance
which had been 'prescribed by the State solely with reference to internal traffic, and they submit illustrations of
incongruities which they contend would be shown by a
similar extension of the rate of progression disclosed by
the former intrastate tariffs of the companies. Again, it
is urged that the extent of the reductions attributable to
the two-cent fare law may not be estimated properly by
a comparison with the former maximum rate of three
cents a mile. Various rates had been in force less than the
maximum allowed. For the six years prior to the two-cent
fare law the average rate 'per passenger per mile for intrastate transportation in Minnesota, on the Northern Pacific
line, had ranged from 2.299 cents in 1901 to 2.435 cents
in 1905, 2.406 cents in 1906, and 2.197 cents in 1907; 1and
during the same time the average rate per passenger per
mile for interstate transportation in Minnesota varied
from 2.075 cents in 1901, 2.027 cents in 1905, 1.949 cents
in 1906, and 1.981 cents in 1907.1 In the fiscal year ending
The two-cent fare law was in force for two months of the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1907.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

June 30, 1908, with the two-cent fare-law in force, the
average rate per passenger' per mile in Minnesota was
1.930 cents for intrastate and 1.928 cents for interstate
carriage.
It is conceded, however, that the schedules fixed for
intrastate transportation "necessarily disturbed the equilibrium theretofore existing between the rates on the two
classes of business" (state and interstate) "on the boundary lines." This applies to the rates to and from the cities
situated on opposite sides of the Red River of the North,
the boundary between Minnesota and North Dakota,
and to and from Duluth and Superior on the eastern
boundary. The reduction of the state rates brought
them below the level of the interstate rates in those instances in which formerly both had been maintained on a
parity. So also, whatever may be said as to the nonexistence of a general or comprehensive system of equitably adjusted rates, it is clear that there are competitive
areas crossed by the state line of Minnesota and that the
State's requirements altered the existing relation between
state and interstate rates as to places within these zones
of competition and not merely as to the cities on the boundary of the State.
The situation is not peculiar to Minnesota. The same
question has been presented by the appeals, now before
the court, which involve the validity of intrastate tariffs
fixed by Missouri, Arkansas, Kentucky and Oregon. Differences in particular facts appear, but they cannot be
regarded as controlling. A scheme of state rates framed
to avoid discrimination between localities within the
State, and to provide an harmonious system for intrastate
transportation throughout the State, naturally would embrace those places within the State which are on or near
the State's boundaries; and, when these are included in a
general reduction of intrastate rates, there is, of course, a
change in the relaiion of rates as theretofore existing to

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

points adjacent to, but across, the state line. Kansas
City, Kansas, and Kansas City, Missouri; East St. Louis,
Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri; Omaha, Nebraska; and
Council Bluffs, Iowa; Cincinnati, Ohio, and Covington
and Newport, Kentucky; and many other places throughout the country which might be mentioned, present substantially the same conditions as those here appearing with
respect to localities on the boundaries of Minnesota. It
is also a matter of common knowledge that competition
takes but little account of state lines and in every part of
the land competitive districts embrace points in different
States.
With appreciation of the gravity of the controversy,
the Railroad Commissioners of eight States I have filed
their brief as amici curice, in support of the appeals, stating
that, if the doctrine of the court below were accepted, the
regulation by the States of rates for intrastate transportation would be practically destroyed. They say that
"there is practically no movement of traffic between two
towns within a State that does not come into competition
with some interstate haul," and that "if the disturbance
of the existing relation between competitive state and
interstate rates is the correct criterion, no reduction can
be made in state rates without interfering with interstate
commerce." The Governors of three States, pursuant to
a resolution of a conference of the Governors of all the
States, have also presented, by leave of the court, their
argument in defense of the position taken by Minnesota.
They do not seek "to belittle the effect of the action of
Minnesota on the business between the places" named
in the findings, but they are convinced that if the principle
announced by the Circuit Court is upheld, it can be made
to apply by a showing of similar facts in virtually every
State. Insisting that, under their reserved power, "the
INebraska, Iowa, Kansas, South Dakota, North Dakota, Oklahoma,
Missouri and Texas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

right of the States to regulate their own commerce is as
clear and broad as that of Congress to regulate interstate
commerce," they assail the decision below, not upon the
ground that it incorrectly sets forth conditions in Minnesota and adjoining States, but for what they consider to be
"its plain disregard of the provisions of the Federal Constitution, which establish the relations between the Nation
and the States." "The operation of these provisions,"
they maintain, "was not made to depend on geography or
convenience or competition. They cannot apply in one
State and not in another, according to circumstances as
they may be found by the courts, because they are vital
principles which constitute the very structure of our dual
form of government."
The controversy thus arises from opposing conceptions
of the fundamental law, and of the scope and effect of
Federal legislation, rather than from differences with
respect to the salient facts.
For the purpose of the present inquiry, the rates fixed
by the State must be assurmed to be reasonable rates so
far as intrastate traffic is concerned; that is, they must be
taken to be rates which the State, in the exercise of its
legislative judgment, could constitutionally fix for intrastate transportation separately considered. If the state
rates are not of this character-a question to be dealt with
'later-'they cannot be sustained in any event; but, assuming them to be otherwise valid, the decree below, with
respect to the present branch of the case, rests upon two
grounds: (1) That the action of the State imposes a direct
burden upon interstate commerce; and (2) that it is in
conflict with the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
These grounds are distinct. If a state enactment imposes a direct burden upon interstate commerce, it must
fall regardless of Federal legislation.- The point of such

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an objection is not that Congress has acted, but that the
State has directly restrained that which in the absence of
Federal regulation should be free. If the acts of Minnesota constitute a direct burden upon interstate commerce, they would be invalid without regard to the exercise of Federal authority touching the interstate rates
said to be affected. On the other hand, if the State, in the
absence of Federal legislation, would have had the power
to prescribe the rates here assailed, the question remains
whether its action is void as being repugnant to the statute
which Congress has enacted.
Prior to the passage of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
carriers fixed their interstate rates free from the actual
exertion of Federal control; and under that act, as it
stood until the amendment of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584,
c. 3591, the Interstate Commerce Commission had no
power to prescribe interstate rates. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co., 167 U. S.479,
511. The States, however, had long exercised the power
to establish maximum rates for intrastate transportation.
Was this power, apart from Federal action, subject to
the limitation that the State could not fix intrastate rates,
reasonable as such, generally throughout the State, but
only as to such places and in such circumstances that the
interstate business of the carriers would not be thereby
affected? That is, was the State debarred from fixing
reasonable rates on traffic, wholly internal, as to all state
points so situated that as a practical consequence the
carriers would have to reduce the rates they had made to
competing points without the State, in order to maintain
the volume of their interstate business or to continue
the parity of rates or the relation between rates as it
had previously existed? Was the State, in prescribing a
eneral triftf of refasonable intrastate rates otherwise
within its authority houind not to go below a minimum
standard established by the interstate rates made by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

carriers within competitive districts? If the state power,
independently of Federal legislation, is thus limited, the
inquiry need proceed no further. Otherwise it must be
determined whether Congress has so acted as to create
such a restriction upon the state authority theretofore
existing.
(1.) The general principles governing the exercise of
state authority when interstate commerce is affected are
well established. The power of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States is supreme and plenary.
It is .'complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost
extent, and acknowledges no limitations other than are
prescribed in the Constitution." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 196. The conviction of its necessity sprang
from the disastrous experiences under the Confederation
when the States vied in discriminatory measures against
each other. In order to end these evils, the grant in the
Constitution conferred upon Congress an authority at all
times adequate to secure the freedom of interstate commercial intercourse from state control and to provide
effective regulation of that intercourse as the national
interest may demand. The words "among the several
States" distinguish between the commerce which concerns
more States than one and that commerce which is confined
within one State and does not affect other States. "The
genius and character of the whole government," said
Chief Justice Marshall, "seem to be, that its action is to
be applied to all the external concerns of the nation, and
to those internal concerns which affect the States generally; but not to those which are completely within a
particular State, which do not affect other States, and
with which it is not necessary to interfere, for the purpose
of executing some of the general powers of the government. The completely internal commerce of a State,
then, may be considered as reserved for the State itself."

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U.S.

Opition of the Court.

(Id., p. 195.) This reservation to the States manifestly
is only of that authority which is consistent with and not
opposed to the grant to Congress. There is no room in
our scheme of government for the assertion of state power
in hostility to the authorized exercise of Federal power.
The authority of Congress extends to every part of interstate commerce, and to every instrumentality or ,agency
by which it is carried on; and the full control by Congress
of the subjects committed to its regulation is not to be
denied or thwarted by the commingling of interstate and
intrastate operations. This is not to say that the Nation
may deal with the internal concerns of the State, as such,
but that th6 execution by Congress of its constitutional
power to regulate interstate commerce is not limited by
the fact that intrastate transactions may have become so
interwoven therewith that the effective government of
the former incidentally controls the latter. This conclusion necessarily results from the supremacy of the national
power within its appointed sphere. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405, 426; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.
557,-565; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 473; Baltimore
& Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221
U. S. 612, 618, 619; Southern Railway Co. v. United States,
222 U. S. 20, 26, 27; Mondou v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R.
Co., 223 U. S. 1, 47, 54, 55.
The grant in the Constitution of its own force, that is,
without action by Congress, established the essential immunity of interstate commercial intercourse from the
direct control of the States with respect to those subjects
embraced within the grant which are of such a nature as
to demand that, if regulated at all, their regulation should
be prescribed by a single authority. It has repeatedly
been declared by this court that as to those subjects which
require a general system or uniformity of regulation the
power of Congress is exclusive. In other matters, admitting of diversity of treatment according to the special

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

requirements of local conditions, the States may act within
their respective jurisdictions until Congress sees fit to act;
and, when Congress does act, the exercise of its authority
overrides all conflicting state legislation. Cooley v. Board
of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319; Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wall.
236, 240; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.275, 280; County of
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Gloucester Ferry Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 204; Bowman v. Chicago
&c. Railway Co., 125 U. S.465, 481, 485; Gulf, Colorado
& Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98, 103, 104;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370,
378; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424, 436.
The principle, which determines this classification, underlies the doctrine that the States cannot under any
guise impose direct burdens upon interstate commerce.
For this is but to hold that the States are not permitted
directly to regulate or restrain that which from its nature
should be under the control of the one authority and be
free from restriction save as it is governed in the manner
that the national legislature constitutionally ordains.
Thus, the States cannot tax interstate commerce, either
by laying the tax upon the business which constitutes
such commerce or the privilege of engaging in it, or upon
the receipts, as such, derived from it (State Freight Tax
Case, 15 Wall. 232; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120
U. S. 489; Philadelphia & Southern Mail S. S. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.
640; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Brennan v.
Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Galveston, Harrisburg & San
Antonio Railway Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S.1, 56; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo& Co., 223
U. S. 298; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S.389); or upon
persons or property in transit in interstate commerce
(PassengerCases, 7 How. 283; Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall.
35; State Freight Tax Case, supra, p. 281; Coe v. Enrol, 116

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 517; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Bacon v. Illinois,
227 U. S. 504).,
They have no power to prohibit interstate trade in
legitimate articles of commerce (Bowman v. Chicago &c.
Railway Co., supra; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Vance
v. Vandercook Co. (No. 1), 170 U. S. 438; Schollenberger
v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing
Co., 223 U. S. 70); or to discriminate against the products
of other States (Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Welton v.
Missouri, supra;Hannibal & St. J. R. R. Co. v. Husen, 95
U. S. 465; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434; Walling v.
Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Minnesota v. Barber, 136'U. S.
313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Darnellv. Memphis,
208 U. S. 113); or to exclude from the limits of the State
corporations or others engaged in interstate commerce or
to fetter by conditions their right to carry it on (Crutcher
v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Western Union Telegraph 'Co.
v. Kansas, supra; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, supra; International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Buck Stove
Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205); or to prescribe the rates to
be charged for transportation from one State to another,
or to subject the operations of carriers in the course of
such transportation to requirements that are unreasonable
or pass beyond the bounds of suitable local protection
(Wabash &c. Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, 577;
Covington &c. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204;
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Eubank, 184 U. S.
27; Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617;
R. R. Commission of Ohio v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101;
Texas & N.. 0. R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S.
111; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485, 488; Cleveland, C., C. &
St. L. Railway Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Houston
& T. C. R. It. Co. v. Mayes, 210 U. S. 321; McNeill v.
Southern Railwuty Co., 202 U. S. 543; Mississippi R. R.
Commission v,. Illinois Cent R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335;
VOL. CCXXX---26

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 136; Herndon
v. C., R. I. & Pac. R. R. Co., 218 U. S. 135; Yazoo &c. R. R.
Co. v. Greenwood Grocery Co., 227 U. S. 1).
But within these limitations there necessarily remains
to the States, until Congress acts, a wide range for the
permissible exercise of power appropriate to their territorial jurisdiction although interstate commerce may be
affected. It extends to those matters of a local nature as
to which it is impossible to derive from the constitutional
grant an intention that they should go uncontrolled pending Federal intervention. Thus, there are certain subjects
having the most obvious and direct relation to interstate
commerce, which nevertheless, with the acquiescence of
Congress, have been controlled by state legislation from
the foundation of the Government because of the necessity
that they should not remain unregulated and that their
regulation should be adapted to varying local exigencies;
hence, the absence of regulation by Congress in such
matters has not imported that there should be no restriction but rather that the States should continue to supply
the needed rules until Congress should decide to supersede
them. Further, it is competent for a State to govern its
internal commerce, to provide local improvements, to
create and regulate local facilities, to adopt protective
measures of a reasonable character in the interest of the
health, safety, morals and welfare of its people, although
interstate commerce may incidentally or indirectly be
involved. Our system of government is a practical adjustment by which the National authority as conferred by
the Constitution is maintained in its full scope without
unnecessary loss of local efficiency. Where the subject
is peculiarly one of local concern, and from its nature belongs to the class with which the State appropriately deals
in making reasonable provision for local needs, it cannot
be regarded as left to the unrestrained will of individuals

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

because Congress has not acted, although it may have such
a relation to interstate commerce as to be within the reach
of the Federal power. In such case, Congress must be the
judge of the necessity of Federal action. Its paramount
authority always enables it to intervene at its discretion
for the complete and effective government of that which
has been committed tc its care, and, for this purpose and
to this extent, in response to a conviction of national need,
to displace local laws by substituting laws of its own. The
successful working of our constitutional system has thus
been made possible.
The leading illustrations may be noted. Immediately
upon the adoption of the Constitution, Congress recognized the propriety of local action with respect to pilotage, in view of the local necessities of navigation. Act of
August 7, 1789, c. 9, ยง 4; 1 Stat. 53, 54; Cooley v. Board
of Wardens, supra. It was sixty years before provision
for Federal license of pilots was made (act of August 30,
1852, c. 106; 10 Stat. 61), and even then port pilots were
not included. Pacific Mail Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2
Wall. 450, 459. And while Congress has full power over
the subject and to a certain extent has prescribed rules,
it is still in a large measure subject to the regulation of the
States. Anderson v. Pacific Coast S. S. Co., 225 U. S. 187.
A State is entitled to protect its coasts, to improve its
harbors, bays and streams, and to construct dams and
bridges across navigable rivers within fts limits, unless
there is conflict with some act of Congress. Plainly, in the
case of dams and bridges, interference with the accustomed
right of navigation may result. But this exercise of the
important power to provide local improvements has not
been regarded as constituting such a direct burden upon
intercourse or interchange of traffic as to be repugnant to
the Federal authority in its dormant state. Willson v.
Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Pound v; Turck, 95 U. S. 459; County of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Mobile v. Kimball, supra; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107
U. S. 678; Cardwelt v. American Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205;
'Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 547; Willamette Bridge Co. v.
Hatch, 125 U. S. 1; Lake Shore & Michigan C. Ry. Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 365; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410;
Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473. Thus, in Gilman v.
Philadelphia,supra, the complainants were the owners of
a valuable wharf and dock property in the Schuylkill
River and sought to prevent the construction of a bridge
which had been authorized by the legislature of Pennsylvania to connect East and West Philadelphia. It appeared that the bridge would prevent the passage of vessels
having masts which had formerly navigated the river up
to the complainants' wharf, and would largely reduce the
income from the property. The court affirmed the dismissal of the bill upon the ground that in the absence of
legislation by Congress the State was acting within its
authority
"The States have always exercised this
power," said the court (id., p. 729), "and from the nature
and objects of the two systems of government they must
always continue to exercise it, subject, however, in all
cases, to the paramount authority of Congress, whenever
the power of the States shall be exerted within the sphere
of the commercial power which belongs to the Nation."
Again, in Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, supra, the question
related to the power of the City of Chicago, acting under
the authority of the State, to regulate the closing of
draws in the bridges over the Chicago River. The court
said: "The Chicago Rivert,md its branlices mrrust,
be deemed navigable waters uf tbe United States, over
which Congress under its comniercial power may exerc ie
control to the extent necessary to protect, preserve, and
improve their free navigation. But the States have full
power to regulate within their limits matters of internal
police, including in that general designation, whatever will
promote the peace, comfort, convenience, and prosperity

THE MINNESOTA iRATE CAS,
230 U. S.

.

Opinion of the Court.

of their people. This power embraces the construction of
roads, canals, and bridges, and the establishment of ferries,
and it can generally be exercised more wisely by the
States than by a distant authority.

.

.

.

When its

(the State's) power is exercised, so as to unnecessarily obstruct the navigation of the river or its branches, Congress
may interfere and remove the obstruction.

. .

.

But

until Congress acts on the subject, the power of the State
over bridges across its navigable streams is plenary."
(Id., p. 683.)
While the State may not impose a duty on tonnage
(Steamship Co. v. Portwardens, ( Wall. 31; State Tonnage
Tax Cases, 12 Wall. 204, 212; Cannon v. New Orleans, 12
Wall. 577), it may regulate wharfage charges and exact
tolls for the use of artificial facilities provided under its
authority. The subject is one under state control, where
Congress has not acted, although the payment is required
of those engaged in interstate or foreign commerce. Keokuk Packet Co. v. Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Cincinnati &c.
Packet Co. v. Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559; Parkersburg& 0.
R. TransportationCo. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691; Huse
v. Glover, supra; Ouachita Packet Co. v. Aiken, 121 U. S.
444; Sands v. Manistee River Improvement Co., 123 U. S.
288, 295. Iii Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, supra,
the court had before it an ordinance of that eity prescribing rates of wharfage on vessels discharging or receiving
freight at public landings belonging to the city. A transportation company having steamers plying between
Pittsburg and Cincinnati complained that the wharfage
charge was exorbitant. The court held that the reasonableness of the charge, it being simply one for wharfage,
was to be determined by the state law. "The regulation
of wharves belongs prima facie, and in the first instance,
to the States, and would only be assumed by Congress
when its exercise by the States is incompatible with the
iuterests of commerce," (Id., p. 703.) Again, in Ouachita

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Packet Co. v. Aiken, supra, where the owners of steamboats engaged in interstate commerce on the Mississippi
River complained of wharfage rates at New Orleans as
unreasonable and excessive, and in effect "a direct duty,
or burden, upon coimmerce," the court, overruling the
contention, held that the case was "clearly within the
principles of the former decisions of this court, which
affirm the right of a State, in the absence of regulation by
Congress, to establish, manage and carry on works and
improvements of a local character, though necessarily
more or less affecting interstate and foreign commerce."
(Id., p. 447.)
Quarantine regulations are essential measures of protectibn which the States are free to adopt when they do not
come into conflict with Federal action. In view of the need
of conforming such measures to local conditions, Congress
from the beginning has been content to leave the matter
for the most part, notwithstanding its vast importance, to
the States and has repeatedly acquiesced in the enforcement of state laws. (Act of February 25, 1799, c. XII,
1 Stat. 619, 1R. S., ยง 4797; Act of April 29, 1878, c. 66, 20
Star. 37; Act of February 15, 1893, c. 114, 27 Stat. 449.)
Such laws undoubtedly operate upon interstate and
foreign commerce. They could not be effective otherwise.
They cannot, of course, be made the (over for discrimiiations and arbitrary enactments having no reasonable
relation to health (Hannibal & St. J. Railroad Co. v.
Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 472, 473); but the power of the
State to take steps to prevent the introduction or spread
of disease, although interstate and foreign commerce are
involved (subject to the paramount authority of Congress
if it decides to assume control), is beyond question.
Morgan's &c. S. S. Co. v. Louisana, 118 U. S. 455; Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1; Rasmussen v. Idaho, 181 U. S.
198; Compagnie Francaise &c. v. Board of [Health, 186

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S.380; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 138; Asbell v.
Kansas, 209 U. S. 251. In Compagnie Francaise &c. v.
Board of Health, supra,the court had before it the quarantine law of Louisiana which, among other things, provided the State Board of Health might "in its discretion,
prohibit the introduction into any infected portions of the
State, persons acclimated, or unacclimated or said to be
immune, when in its judgment the introduction of such
persons would add to or increase the prevalence of the
disease." The Supreme Court of the State, interpreting
the statute, held that it empowered the Board to exclude
healthy persons from a locality infested with a contagious
or infectious disease, whether they came from without or
within the State. It was objected that this provision was
too broad and that the former decisions of the court were
based upon the right of the States to exclude diseased
persons and things which were not legitimate subjects of
commerce. The court sustained the law, saying, with
respect to this argument: "But it must be at once observed
that this erroneously states the doctrine as concluded by
the decisions of this court previously referred to, since the
proposition ignores the fact that those cases expressly and
unequivocally hold that the health and quarantine laws
of the several States are not repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, although they affect foreign and
domestic commerce, as in many cases they necessarily
must do in order to be efficacious, because until Congress
has acted under the authority conferred upon it by the
Constitution, such state health and quarantine laws producing Such effect on legitimate interstate commerce are
not in conflict with the Constitution. True is it that, in
some of the cases relied on in the argument, it was held
that a state law absolutely prohibiting the introduction,
under all circumstances, of objects actually affected with
disease, was valid because such objects were not legitimate
commerce. But this implies no limitation on the power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court..

230 U. S.

regulatb by health laws the subjects of legitimate commerce. In other words, the power exists until Congr'ess
has acted, to incidentally regulate by health and quarantine laws, even although interstate and foreign commerce
is affected, and the power to absolutely prohibit additionally obtains where the thing prohibited is not commerce,
and hence not embraced in either interstate or foreign
commerce." ((d., p. 391.)
State inspection laws and statutes designed to safeguard the inhabitants of a State from fraud and imposition
are valid when reasonable in their requirements and not in
conflict with Federal rules, although they may affect
interstate commerce in their relMtion to articles prepared
for export or by including incidentally those brought into
the State and held for sale in the original imported packages. Gibbons v. Ogden, supra, p. 203; Turner v. Maryland,
107 U. S.38; Plunley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461;
Patapsco Guana Co. v. North Carolina, 171 U. S. 345, 357,
358; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S.501. Ankd for the protection
of its game and the preservatioj (ora valuable food supply,
the State may penalize the possession of game during
the closed season whether obtained within the State or
brought from abroad. Silz v. Heslerberg, 211 U. S. 31.
Interstate carriers, in the absence of Federal statute
providing a different rule, are answerable according to the
law of the State for nonfeasance or misfeasance within its
limits. Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169
U. S. 133, 137; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191
U. S. 477, 491; Martin v. Pitsburgj& Lake Erie R. R. Co.,
203 U. Si 284, 294; Soutlhrn Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227
U. S. 601, 613. Until the enactment by Congress of the
act of April 22, 1908, c.149, 35 Stat. 65, the laws of the
States determined the liability of interstate carriers by
railroad for injuiies received by their employ 6 s while
engaged in interstate commerce, and this was because
Congress, although empowered to regulate the subject,

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had not acted thereon. In some States the so-called
fellow-servant rule obtained; in others, it had been
abrogated; and it remained for Congress, in this respect
and in other matters specified in the statute, to establish
a uniform rule. Mondou v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. 1. Co.,
supra; Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S.
59, 66, 67. So, where Congress has not intervened, state
statutes providing damages for wrongful death may be
enforced not only against land carriers but also against
thd owners of vessels engaged in interstate commerce
where the wrong occurs within the jurisdiction of the
State. Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 103. See American
Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522; The Hamilton, 207
U. S. 398. And, until Congress legislated on the matter,
liability for loss of property, on interstate as well as
intrastate shipments, was subject to state regulation.
Some States allowed an exemption by contract from all or
a part of the common law liability; others allowed no
exemption. These differences in the applicable laws
created inequalities with respect to interstate transportation, but each State exercised the power inherent in its
territorial jurisdiction, and the remedy for the resulting
diversity lay with Congress, which was free to substitute
its own regulations; and this was done in the recent
amendment of ยง 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584; Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 500. It is within the
competency of a State to create and enforce liens upon
vessels for supplies furnished under contracts not maritime in their nature, and it is no valid objection that the
state law may obstruct the prosecution of a voyage of an
interstate character. The Winnebago, 205 U. S. 354.
It may also create liens for damages to property on land
occasioned by negligence of vessels. Johnson v Chicago
&c. Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388; Martin v. West, 222 U. S.
191. Cars employed in interstate commerce may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

seized by attachment under state law, in order to compel
the payment of debts. Davis v. C., C., C. & St. L. Ry.
Co., 217 U. S. 157. And the legislation of the States,
safeguarding life and property and promoting comfort
and convenience within its jurisdiction, may extend
incidentally to the operations of the carrier in the conduct
of interstate business, provided it does not subject that
business to unreasonable demands and is not opposed to.
Federal legislation. Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465;
Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; N. Y., N. H. &
H. R. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Lake Shore &
M. S. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Larabee Mills, 211 U. S. 612; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262. It has also been held
that the State has the power to forbid the consolidation of
state railroad corporations with competing lines although
both may be interstate carriers and the prohibition may
have a far-reaching effect upon interstate commerce.
Pearsall v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 646, 677;
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S.
677, 701, 702. See Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197, 317, 348, 382.
Again, it is manifest that when the legislation of the
State is limited to internal commerce to such degree that
it does not include even incidentally the subjects of interstate commerce, it is not rendered invalid because it
may affect the latter commerce indirectly. In the intimacy of commercial relations, much that is done in the
superintendence of local matters may have an indirect
bearing upon interstate commerce. The development of
local resources and the extension of local facilities may
have a very important effect upon communities less
favored and to an appreciable degree alter the course
of trade. The freedom of local trade may stimulate interstate commerce, while restrictive measures within the
police power of the Stal e enacted exclusively with re-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

spect to internal business, as distinguished from interstate traffic, may in their reflex or indirect influence
diminish the latter and reduce the volume of articles transported into or out of the State. It was an objection of
this sort that was urged and overruled in Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U. S. 1, to the law of Iowa prohibiting the manufacture and sale of liquor within the State, save for
limited purposes. See also Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.
519, 534; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343; Capital
City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238, 245; Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, supra. When, however, the
State in dealing with its internal commerce undertakes
to regulate instrumentalities which are also used in interstate commerce, its action is necessarily subject to the
exercise by Congress of its authority to control such instrumentalities so far as may be necessary for the purpose
of enabling it to discharge its constitutional function.
Southern Railway Co. v. United States, supra;Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Co. v. InterstateCommerce Commission,supra.
Within the state power, then, in the words of Chief
Justice Marshall is, "that immense mass of legislation,
which embraces everything within the territory of a State,
not surrendered to a general government: all which can be
most advantageously exercised by'the States themselves.
Inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every
description, as well as laws for regulating the internal
commerce of a State, and those which respect turnpike
roads, ferries, &c., are component parts of this mass. No
direct general power over these objects is granted to Congress: and, consequently, they remain subject to state
legislation. If the legislative power of the Union can reach
them, it must be for national purposes; it must be where
the power is expressly given for a special purpose, or is
clearly incidental to some power which is expressly given."
Gibbons v. Ogden, supra, pp. 203, 304.
And, wherever as to such matters, under these estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 19t2.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

lished principles, Congress may be entitled to act, by
virtue of its power to secure the complete government of
interstate commerce, the state power nevertheless continues until Congress does act and by its valid interposition limits the exercise of the local authority.
(2) These principles apply to the authority of the State
to prescribe reasonable maximum rates for intrastate
transportation.
State regulation of railroad rates began with railroad
transportation. The railroads were chartered by the
States and from the outset, in many charters, maximum
rates for freight or passengers, or both were prescribed.'
Frequently-and this became the more general practice-the board of directors was permitted to fix charges in its
discretion, an authority which in numerous instances
was made subject to a limitation upon the amount of net
earnings. 2 In several States maximum rates were also
established, or the power to alter rates was expressly
In 1853, the State of New
reserved, by general laws.'
E. g. Maryland, Laws of 1826, c. CXXIII, ยง 18; 1830, c. 117, ยงยง 2,
3; 1834, c. 281, ยง 3: Massachusetts, Laws of 1829, c. XXVI, ยง 6; 1830,
c. XCIII, ยง 10: New York, Laws of 1828, c.21, ยง 11; c.238, ยง 11; 1831,
c. 83, ยง 10; 1836, c. 242, ยง 9: Virginia, Laws of 1830-1831, c. CXIX,
ยง 19; e. CXXI, ยง 18; 1835-1836, c. 121, ยง 24: Ohio, Laws of 1833-1834,
p. 203, ยง 19; p. 396, ยง 9: North Carolina, Laws of 1836-1837, c.XL,
ยง 30.
Connecticut, 1832, II Resolves and Private Laws (1789-1836),
p. 992: Indiana, Laws of 1832, e. CXLVI, ยงยง 23, 24: Florida, Laws of
1848, c. 244, ยง 11: New York, Laws of 1828, e. 304, ยง 13; 1832, c. 162,
ยงยง 12, 17: Massachusetts, Laws of 1833, c. CXVIII, ยง 4: Virginia, Laws
of 1839, e. 110, ยง 5: Wisconsin, Laws of 1847, p. 72, ยง,15; 1851, c. 262,

ยง7.
'Illinois, Laws of 1849, P. 15, ยงยง 21, 32: Massachusetts, Laws of
1845, c.191, ยง 2; 1860, c. 201, ยง 2: New York, Laws of 1850, c. 140,
ยง 33: California, Laws of 1850, e. 128, ยง 77; 1861, e. DXXXII, ยง 51:
Iowa, Code of 1873, ยง 1305; Laws of 1874, e. 68,.ยงยง 1-5: Report of Industrial (owmissiot, 1901, Vol. IX, pp. 903-905, 91 1-15.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

York fixed the maximum fare for way passengers on
the railroads forming the line of New York Central at
two cents a mile (Laws of 1853, c. 76, ยง 7) and this
rate extending to Buffalo and Suspension Bridge, on the
boundary of the State, has continued to the present day
(Cons. Laws, N. Y., 1910, c. 49, ยง 57). As a rule the
restrictions imposed by the early legislation were far from
onerous, but they are significant in the assertion of the
right of control. More potent than these provisions,
in the actual effect upon railroads tariffs, was the state
cadal. It is a matter of common knowledge that the
traffic on the trunk lines from the Atlantic seaboard to
the west was developed in competition with the Erie
Canal, built, maintained and regulated by the State of
New York to promote its commerce.
The authority of the State to limit by legislation the
charges of common carriers within its borders was not
confined to the power to impose limitations in connection
with grants of corporate privileges. In view of the nature
of their business, they were held subject to legislative
control as to the amount of their charges unless they were
protected by their contract with the State. This was
decided in Chicago, Burlington f Quincy R. R. Co. v.
Iowa, 94 U. S. 155; Peik v. Chicago & Northwestern Railway Co., 94 U. S. 164; Winona & St. Peter R. R. Co. v.
Blake, 94 U. S. 180, and other cases, following* Munn v.
Illinois,94 U. S. 113. The question was preseated by acts
of the legislatures of Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota, passed in the years 1871 and 1874 in response to a
general movement for a reduction of rates. T he section
of the country in which the demand arose was to a large
degree homogeneous and one in which the flow of commerce
was only slightly concerned with state lines. But resort
was-had to the States for relief. In the Munn Case, the
court had before it the statute of Illinois governing the
grain warehouses in Chicago. Through these elevators,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

located with the river harbor on the one side and the
railway tracks on the other, it was necessary according'
to the course of trade for the product of seven or eight
States of the West to pass on its way to the States on the
Atlantic coast. In addition to the denial of any legislative authority to limit charges it was urged that the act
was. repugnant to the exclusive power of Congress to
regulate interstate commerce. The court answered that
the business was carried on exclusively within the limits
of the State of Illinois, that its regulation was a thing of
domestic concern and that "certainly, until Congress,
acts in reference to their interstate relations, the State
may exercise all the powers of government over them,
even though in so doing it may indirectly operate upon
In the
commerce outside its immediate jurisdiction."
decision of the railroad cases, above cited, the same opinion was expressed. The language of the court, however,
went further than to sustain the state law with respect
to rates for purely intrastate carriage. Thus, the act
of Wisconsin covered traffic which started within the
State and was destined to points outside, and this wVs
treated as being within the state power (Peik v. Chicago
& Northwestern Railway Co., 94 U. S. 164, 177, 178), a
view which was later repudiated. Wabash, St. L. & P.
Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.557.
It became a frequent practice for the States to create
commissions, as agencies of state supervision and regulation, and in many instances the rate-making power was
conferred upon these bodies. A summary of such legislation is given in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago,
N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479, 495, 496. One of
these state laws, that of Mississippi, passed in 1884,
came under review in Stone v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co.,
116 U. S. 307. The suit was brought to enjoin the Railroad Commission from enforcing the statute against the
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Comr, .ny. It had been incor-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

porated in the States of Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee
and Kentucky, for the purpose of constructing a railroad
from Mobile to some point near the mouth of the Ohio
River where it would connect with another railroad, thus
forming a continuous line of interstate communication
between the Gulf of Mexico and the Great Lakes. The
Commission as yet had not acted. Sustaining the state
power to fix rates upon traffic wholly internal, the court
directed the dismissal of the bill. The State, said the
court, (p. 334) "may, beyond all question, by the settled
rule of decision in this court, regulate freights and fares
for business done exclusively within the State, and it
would seem to be a matter of domestic concern to prevent
the company froi discriminating against persons agnd
places in Mississippi." In the same case, it was declared
that the power of regulation was not a power to confiscate;
and that under pretense of regulating fares and freights,
the States could not "require a railroad corporation to
carry persons or property without reward," or do, that
which in law amounted "to a taking of private property
for public use without just compensation, or without due
process of law." (Id., p. 331.)
In Wabash, St. L. & P. Railway Co. v. Illinois, supra, it
was finally determined that the authority of the State did
not extend to the regulation of charges for interstate transportation. There the state statute was aimed at discrimination. It was said to have been violated by the railroad
company in the case of shipments from points within
Illinois to the city of New York. The state court had construed the statute to be binding as to that part of the
interstate haul which was within the State although inoperative beyond the boundary. So applied, this court
held the act to be invalid.
But no doubt was entertained of the State's authority
to regulate rates for transportation that was wholly
intrastate. And, in illustrating the extent of state power

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

(id., p. 564), the court selected transportation across the
State from Cairo to Chicago and from Chicago to Alton,
all boundary points constituting important centers of
commerce-the one on Lake Michigan, and the others
at the confluence of the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, and
of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, respectively. After
reviewing decisions holding state laws to be ineffective
which imposed a direct burden upon interstate commerce,
including th , cases of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232;
Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; Piccard v. Pullman Southern Car
Co., 117 U. S. 34, the court emphasized the distinction
with respect to the operation of the statute upon domestic
transactions saying: "Of the justice or propriety of the
principle which lies at the foundation of the Illinois statute
it is not the province of this court to speak. As restricted
to a transportation which begins and ends within the
limits of the State it may be very just and equitable, and
it certainly is the province of the state legislature to determine that question." (Id., p. 577.)
The doctrine was thus fully established that the State
could not prescribe interstate rates but could fix reasonable intrastate rates throughout its territory. The extension of railroad facilities has been accompanied at
every step by the assertion of this authority on the part
of the States and its invariable recognition by this court.
It has never been doubted that the State could, if it saw
fit, build its own highways, canals and railroads. (Railroad
(C'npantyv. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 470, 471.) It could
build railroads traversing the entire State and thus join its
border cities and commercial centers by new highways of
internal intercourse to be always available upon reasonable
terms. Such provision for local traffic might indeed alter
relative advantages in competition, and, by virtue of
economic forces, those engaged in interstate trade and
transportation might find it necessary to make readjust-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ments extending from market to market through a wide
sphere of influence; but such action of the State would not
for that reason be regarded as creating a direct restraint
upon interstate commerce and as thus transcending the
state power. Similarly, the authority of the State to prescribe what shall be reasonable charges of common carriers for intrastate transportation, unless it be limited by
the exertion of the constitutional power of Congress, is
state-wide. As a power appropriate to the territorial jurisdiction of the State, it is not confined to a part of the
State, but extends throughout the State-to its cities
adjacent to its boundaries as well as to those in the interior
of the State. To say that this power exists, but that it
may be exercised only in prescribing rates that are on an
equal or higher basis than those that are fixed by the carrier for interstate transportation, is to maintain the power
in name while denying it in fact. It is to assert that the
exercise of the legislative judgment in determining what
shall be the carrier's charge for the intrastate service is
itself subject to the carrier's will. But this state-wide
authority controls the carrier and is not controlled by it;
and the idea that the power of the State to fix reasonable
rates for its internal traffic is limited by the mere action
of the carrier in laying an interstate rate to places across
the State's border, is foreign to our jurisprudence.
. If this authority of the State be restricted, it rhust be by
virtue of the paramount power of Congress over interstate
commerce and its instruments; and, in view of the nature
of the subject, a limitation may not be implied because of
a dormant Federal power, that is, one which has not been
exerted, but can only be found in the actual exercise of Federal control in such measure as to exclude this action by the
State which otherwise would clearly be within its province.
(3.) When Congress, in the year 1887, enacted the Act
to Regulate Commerce (24 Stat. 379, c. 104), it was acvoL. ccxxx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

quainted with the course of the development of railroad

transportation and with the exercise by the States of the
rate-making power. An elaborate report had been made
to the Senate by a committee authorized to investigate
the subject of railroad regulation in which the nature and
extent of state legislation, including the commission plan,
were fully reviewed (Senate Report 46, submitted January 6, 1886, 49th Congress, 1st session). And it was the
fact that beyond the bounds of state control there lay a
vast field of unregulated activity in the conduct of interstate transportation which was found to be the chief cause
of the demand for Federal action.
Congress carefully defined the scope of its regulation,
and expressly provided that it was not to extend to purely
intrastate traffic. In the first section of the Act to Regulate Commerce there was inserted the following proviso:
"Provided, however, That the provisions of this act shall
not apply to the transportation of passengers or property,
or to the receiving, delivering, storage, or handling of
property, wholly within one State, and not shipped to or
from a foreign country from or to any State or Territory
as aforesaid."
When in the year 1906 (act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34
Stat. 584), Congress amended the act so as to confer upon

the Federal commission power to prescribe maximum interstate rates, the proviso in section one was reenacted.
Again, in 1910, when the act was extended to embrace
telegraph, telephone and cable companies engaged in interstate business, the proviso was once more reenacted,
with an additional clause so as to exclude intrastate miessages from the operation of the statute. Act of June 18,
1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 545. The proviso in its present
form reads:
"Provided, however, That the provisions of this Act
shall not apply to the transportation of passengers or
property, or to the receiving, delivering, storage, or' han-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dting of property wholly within one State and not shipped
to or from a foreign country from or to any State or
Territory as aforesaid, nor shall they apply to the transmission of messages by telephone, telegraph, or cable
wholly within one State and not transmitted to or from
a foreign country from or to any State or Territory as
aforesaid."
There was thus excluded from the provisions of the act
that transportation which was "wholly within one State,"
with the specified qualification where its subject was going
to or coming from a foreign country.
It is urged, however, that the words of the proviso are
susceptible of a construction which would permit the
provisions of section three of the act, prohibiting carriers
from giving an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any locality, to apply to unreasonable discriminations between localities in different States, as well
when arising from an intrastate rate as compared with an
interstate rate as when due to interstate rates exclusively.
If it be assumed that the statute should be so construed,
and it is not necessary now to decide the point, it would
inevitably follow that the controlling principle governing
the enforcement of the act should be applied to such cases
as might thereby be brought within its purview; and the
question whether the carrier, in such a case, was giving
an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to one
locality as against another, or subjecting any locality
to an undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage,
would be primarily for the investigation and determination of the Interstate Commerce Commission and not for
the courts. The dominating purpose of the statute was
to secure conformity to the prescribed standards through
the examination and appreciation of the complex facts of
transportation by the body created for that purpose; and,
as this court has repeatedly held, it would be destructive
of the system of regulation defined by the statute if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

court without the preliminary action of the Commission
were to undertake to pass upon the administrative questions which the statute has primarily confided to it. Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.
426; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215
U. S. 481; Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 222
U. S. 506; United States v. Pacific & Arctic Co., 228 U. S.
87. In the present case, there has been no finding by the
Interstate Commerce Commission of unjust discrimination
violative of the act; and no action of that body is before
us for review.
The question we have now before us, essentially, is
whether after the passage of the Interstate Commerce
Act, and its amendment, the State continued to possess
the state-wide authority which it formerly enjoyed to
prescribe reasonable rates for its exclusively internal
traffic. That, as it plainly appears, was the nature of the
action taken by Minnesota, and the attack, however
phrased, upon the rates here involved as an interference
with interstate commerce, is in substance a denial of that
authority.
Having regard to the terms of the Federal statute, the
familiar range of state action at the time it was enacted,
the continued exercise of state authority in the same manner and to the same extent after its enactment, and the
decisions of this court recognizing and upholding this
authority, we find no foundation for the proposition that
the Act to Regulate Commerce contemplated interference
therewith.
Congress did not undertake to say that the intrastate
rates of interstate carriers should be reasonable or to
invest its administrative agency with authority to determine their reasonableness. Neither by the original act
nor by its amendment, did Congress seek to establish a
unified control over interstate and intrastate rates; it did
not set up a standard for intrastate rates, or prescribe, or

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authorize the Commission to prescribe, either maximum

or minimum rates for intrastate traffic. It cannot be
supposed that Congress sought to accomplish by indirection that which it expressly disclaimed, or attempted to
overrid6 the accustomed authority of the States without
the provision of a substitute. On the contrary, the fixing
of reasonable rates for intrastate transportation was left
where it had been found; that is, with the States and the
agencies created by the States to deal with that subject.
Missouri Paciftc Ry. Co. v. Larabee Mills, 211 U.,S. 612,
620, 621.
How clear was the purpose not to occupy the field thus
left to the exercise of state power is shown by the clause
uniformly inserted in the numerous acts passed by Congress to authorize the construction of railways across the
Indian Territory. This clause, while fixing a maximum
passenger rate, made the laws of an adjoining State (in
some cases Arkansas, in others Texas, and in others
Kansas) applicable to the freight rates to be charged
within the Territory; and while the right to regulate rates
on the authorized line of railroad was reserved to Congress
until a state government should be established, it was
expressly provided that, when established, the State should
be entitled to fix rates for intrastate transportation-the
right remaining with Congress to prescribe rates for such
transportation as should be interstate. Within a month
after the Act to Regulate Commerce was enacted, two acts
were passed by Congress for this purpose with respect
to railways extending across the Territory from the Texas
to the Kansas boundary. The provision-in both cases in
identical language-save that the one referred to the laws
of Texas and the other to the laws of Kansas-was as
follows (act of Feb. 24, 1887, c. 254, ยง4, 24 Stat. 420;
act of March 2, 1887, c. 319, ยง4, id., 447):
"SEc. 4. That said railroad company shall not charge
the inhabitants of said Territory a greater rate of freight

O(TOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

2-30 U,S.

than the rate authorized by the laws of the State of Texas
for services or transportation of the same kind: Provided,
That passenger rates on said railway shall not exceed
three cents per mile. Congress hereby reserves the right
to regulate the charges for freight and passengers on said
railway, and messages on said telegraph and telephone
lines, a'ntil a State government or governments shall exist in
said Territory within the limits of which said railway, or a
part thereof, shall be' located; and then such State government
or governments shall be authorized to fix and regulate the
cost of transportation of persons and freights within their
respective limits by said railway; but Congress expressly
reserves the right to fix and regulate at all times the cost
of such transportation by said railway or said company
whenever such transportation shall extend from one State
into another, or shall extend into more than one State.
Provided, however, That the rate of such transportation of
passengers, local or inter-State, shall not exceed the rate
above expressed: And provided further, That said railway
company shall carry the mail at such prices as Congress
may by law provide; and until such rate is fixed by law
the Postmaster-General may fix the rate of compensation."
The same provision is found in similar statutes passed
in almost every year from 1884 to 1902 and relating to
lines intended to serve as highways of interstate communication.' When Oklahoma became a State, the laws
Referring to Laws of Texas: Acts of July 4, 1884, c. 177, ยง 4, 23
Stat. 69, 70; July 1,1886, c. 601, ยง 4, 24 Stat. 117, 119; Feb. 18, 1888,
e. 13, ยง 4, 25 Stat. 35, 37; May 14, 1888, c. 248, ยง 4, 25 Stat. 140,
142;.May 30, 1888, c. 337, ยง 4, 25 Stat. 162, 163; June 26, 1888, c.494,
ยง4, 25 Stat. 205, 207; Oct. 1,1890, c. 1248, ยง4, 26 Stat. 632, 634; July 30,
1892, c. 329, ยง 4, 27 Stat. 336, 338; Mar. 1, 1893, c.188, ยง 4, 27 Stat.
24, 525; Aug. 4, 1894, e. 215, ยง 4, 28 Stat. 229, 230; Mar. 23, 1898,
c. 87, ยง 4, 30 Stat. 341, 342.
Referring to Laws of Kansas: Acts of July 4, 1884, c, 179, ยง 4, 23
Stat. 73, 74i June 21, 1890, c. 479, ยง 4, 26 Stat 170, 171; June 30; 1890,

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of other States which were referred to in these various
acts ceased to be operative within its limits, and by virtue
of its Statehood and with the direct sanction of Congress,
it became authorized to prescribe reasonable maximum
rates for intrastate transportation throughout its extent.
Oklahoma v. A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277, 285;
Oklahoma v. C., R. I. & Pac. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 302, 306.
The decisions of this court since the passage of the Act
to Regulate Commerce have uniformly recognized that it
was competent for the State to fix such rates, applicable
throughout its territory. If it be said that in the contests
that have been waged over state laws during the past
twenty-five years, the question of interference with interstate commerce by t~he establishment of state-wide rates
for intrastate traffic has seldom been raised, this fact itself
attests the common conception of the scope of state authority. And the decisions recognizing and defining the
state power wholly refute the contention that the making
of such rates either constitutes a direct burden upon interstate commerce or is repugnant to the Federal statute.
. In Dow v. Beideiman, 125 U. S. 680, the statute of

Arkansas, enacted in April, 1887 (April 4, 1887, Acts 1887,
c 638, ยง 4, 26 Stat, 184, 185; Sept. 26, 1890, c. 947, ยง 4, 26 Stat. 485,
487; Feb. 27, 1893, c. 171, ยง 4, 27 Stat. 492, 493; Mar. 18, 1896, c. 60,
ยง 4, 29 Stat. 69, 70; Mar. 30, 1896, c. 82, ยง 4, 29 Stat. 80, 82.
Referring to Liws of Arkansas: Acts of June 1, 1886, c. 395, ยง 4, 24
Stat. 73, 74; July 6, 1886, c. 744, ยง 4, 24 Stat. 124, 125; Feb. 18, 1888,
P. 13, ยง 4, 25 St 35, 37; Mqy 30, 1888, e. 337, ยง 4, 25 Stat. 162, 163;
Feb. 26, 1889, e. 280, ยง 4, 25 Stat. 745, 746; Feb. 24, 1891, c. 288, ยง 4,
26 Stat. 783, 785; Mar. 3, 1891, c. 535, ยง 4, 26 Stat. 844, 846; Feb. 24,
1896, c. 30, ยง 6, 29 Stat. 13, 15; Mar, 2, 1896, e. 38, ยง 4, 29 Stat. 40, 41;
Apr. 6, 1896, z. 93, ยง 4, 29 Stat. 86, 88; Jan. 29, 1897, c. 108, ยง 4, 29
S'tat, 502, 504; Mar. 30, 1898, z. 104, ยง 6, 30 Stat. 347, 349; Jan. 28,
T9, c. 65, ยง 5, 30 SUat. 806, 808; Feb. 4, 1899, c. 88, ยง6, 30 Stat. 816,
818; Mar. 3, U899, c. 453, ยง 6, 30 Stat., 1368, 1370.
Referring to laws of Territory of Oklahoma: Act of Feb. 28, 1902,
4" 134, ยง 4, 32 Stat. 43, 45.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

p. 227) which established three cents a mile as the maximum fare for carrying passengers within the State on
railroads over seventy-five miles in length, was sustained
against the objection of the owners of the Memphis and
Little Rock Railroad who attacked the act as confiscatory
and arbitrary in its classification. The same statute was
again upheld in St. Louis & San FranciscoRailway Co. v.
Gill, 156 U. S. 649. In Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, the statute of that State (March 7,
1887, Gen. Laws 1887, c. 10) creating a commission with
power to prescribe intrastate rates was adjudged to be
invalid, but this was upon the ground that the act as construed by the state court made the rates published by the
commission final and conclusive and precluded any judicial
inquiry whether they were reasonable. In Chicago &c.
Railway Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, the act of the
legislature of Michigan (June 28, 1889, Pub. Laws 1889,
p. 282) fixing the maximum fare for passengers Within the
State at two cents a mile in the case of companies whose
gross earnings exceeded three thousand dollars a mile was
unsuccessfully assailed as confiscatory and no contention
was advanced that such an act operating throughout the
State was an unwarrantable interference with interstate
commerce.
In Reagan v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362,
the trustee of a railroad mortgage attacked the statute
of Texas (April 3, 1891, Gen. Laws 1891, c. 51, p. 55) which
established a railroad commission with authority to regulate tariffs, and the order of the commission providing a
schedule of classified rates for the transportation of goods
within the State. The challenge was of the tariff as a
whole and the inquiry was whether the body of rates was
unreasonable and such as to work a practical destruction
of rights of property. Viewed in this aspect, the court,
upon the allegations admitted by demurrer, held the action
of the commission to be beyond its constitutional power

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court enjoining the
rates. โขThe decree, however, was reversed so far as it
restrained the commission from discharging the duties
imposed by the statute and from proceeding to prescribe
reasonable rates and regulations. A further question was
presented in Reagan v. Mercantile Trust Company, 154

U. S.413, in respect to the same statute and .order as
applied to the Texas and Pacific Railway Company which
had been organized under the laws of the United States
(March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 573, c. 122) and operated its road
not only within that State but also for several hundred
miles outside. .It was insisted that this company was "not
subject to the control of the State, even as to rates for
transportation wholly within the State," the argument
being that it was not within the. state power to limit the
Federal franchise to collect tolls. But the court held that
the act of Congress did not go to the extent asserted but
left the company, as to its intrastate business, subject to
state authority.
The effect of intrastate rates upon interstate rates was
urged in Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, and in the cases
decided therewith. These suits were brought by stockholders of the Union Pacific Railway Company, the
Chicago and Northwestern Railroad Company and the
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, to
enjoin the enforcement of the act of the legislature of
Nebraska passed in 1893 (April 12, 1893, Acts 1893, c. 24).
This was a comprehensive statute classifying the freight
transported from any point in Nebraska to any other
point in that State and prescribing tables of maximum
rates. The companies affected were interstate carriers
engaged in a vast commerce only a small portion of which
was wholly local to the State. On the eastern boundary
lay Omaha, a city of large importance in interstate trade,
situated on the Missouri river with Council Bluffs,
in the
State of Iowa, directly opposite. The point was distinctly

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U.S.

made in the Circuit Court that the statute interfered
with interstate commerce because, first, it established a
classification of freights different from that which prevailed west of Chicago, and second, by reducing local
rates it necessarily reduced rates on interstate business.
Mr. Justice Brewer, who tried the cases, overruled these
objections holding, that neither the convenience of the
carriers nor the consequences of competition with respect
to interstate rates could be pleaded "in restraint of the
otherwise undeniable power of the State." Ames v. Union
Pacific Railway Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 165, 171, 172. Having
disposed of this contention, the court considered the ques*tion of the reasonableness of the rates and reached the
conclusion that they were invalid because they amounted
to a deprivation of the carriers' rights of, property. On
appeal to this court the counsel for the appellees directed
attention to the conditions of transportation in Nebraska.
It was argued that the local traffic was carried over the
same tracks, in the same trains and often in the same
cars with the interstate traffic; that to separate the cost of
carrying the one sort of traffic from that of the other was
a "manifest impossibility;" and that it was a necessary
consequence of existing'conditions that, if Nebraska controlled the local rates, it at the same time controlled the
interstate rates. But this contention was not sustained
and the affirmance of the decree was placed upon the distinct ground that the rates were confiscatory. It was ruled
that the reasonableness of intrastate rates was to be
determined by considering the intrastate business separately. In answer to the suggestion that the conditions
of business might have changed for the better since the
decrees, the court called attention to the proviso in the
decrees intended to meet such a case, adding that if the
Circuit Court found that conditions were such as to permit the application of the state rates without depriving
the carriers of just compensation it would "be its duty

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion ofthe Court.

to discharge the injunction" and to make whatever order
was necessary "to remove any obstruction placed by the
decrees in these cases in the way of the enforcement of the
statute." (Id., p. 550; see Smyth v. Ames, 171 U. S. 361,

365.)
In that one of the Smyth Cases which was brought by
the stockholders of the Union Pacific Railway Company
not only was the case presented of a trunk line crossing
the State with a relatively small proportion of business
local to Nebraska, but the company had been formed by
a consolidation of several companies by authority of
Congress, one of them being the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, incorporated by the act of July 1, 1862, c. 120,
12 Stat. 489. By this act (ยง 18, id. 497), it was expressly
provided that Congress might reduce the rates of fare if
unreasonable and might fix the same by law whenever
the net earnings of the entire road and telegraph should
exceed a dertain amount. But this language, while showing that Congress intended to reserve the power to prevent
unreasonable exactions, was not deemed to be equivalent
to a declaration that the States through which the road
might be constructed should not regulate rates for intrastate transportation. The court said: "It cannot be
doubted that the making of rates for transportation. by
railroad corporations along public highways, between
poihts wholly within the limits of a State, is a. subject
primarily within the control of that State. . . . Congress not having exerted this power, we do not think that
the national character of the corporation constructing the
Union Pacific Railroad stands in the way of a State prescribing rates for transporting property on that road wholly
between points within its territory. Until Congress, in
the exercise either of the power specifically reserved by
the eighteenth section of the actof 1862 or its power under
the general reservation made of authority to add to, alter,
amend or repeal that act, prescribes rates to be charged by

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

the railroad company, it remains with the States through
which the road passes to fix rates for transportation beginning and,ending within their respective limits." (169 U. S.,
pp. 521, 522.) It is plain that had the intrastate rates,
established by the comprehensive statute of Nebraska,
not been found .to be confiscatory they would have been
sustained in their application to all intrastate traffic notwithstanding the reserved power of Congress over the
Union Pacific line and despite the argument based upon
the interdependence of interstate and intrastate rates.
The cases of Louzisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503, and Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Co. v. Eubank, 184 U. S. 27, concerned the validity of the
long and short haul provision of the constitution of Kentucky adopted in 1891. In the first case, violation was
charged with respect to the transportation of coal from
Altamont to Lebanon, an intermediate station, as compared with charges for transportation from Altamont to
Elizabethtown and Louisville, all places being within
Kentucky. The difference in rate was justified by the
company on the ground that at Louisville the coal hauled
from Altamont came into competition with that brought
down the Ohio River and at Elizabethtown with western
Kentucky coal brought there by the Illinois Central Railroad. The contention that the state provision operated
as an interference with interstate commerce was presented
and overruled, the court saying: "It is plain that the provision in question does not in terms embvace the case of
interstate traffic. It is restricted in its regt lation to those
who own or operate a railroad within the State, and the
long and short distances mentioned are evidently distances
upon the railroad line within the State. The particular
case before us is one involving only the transportation of
coal from one point in the State of Kentucky to another
by a corporation of that State. It may be that the enforcement of the state regulation forbidding discrimination in

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rates in the case of articles of a like kind carried for different distances over the same line may somewhat affect
commerce generally;, but' we have frequently held that
such a result is too remote and indirect to be regarded as
an interference with interstate commerce; that the interference with the commercial power of the general government to be unlaWful must be direct, and not the merely
incidental effect of enforcing the police powers of a State."
(183 U. S., pp. 518, 519.) In the Eubank Case, which had
been argued before the first case was decided, it appeared
that the state court had construed the same provision of
the Kentucky constitution as embracing a long haul from a
place outside to one within the State (Nashville and Louisville) and a shorter haul on the same line and in the same
direction between points within the State. The court
held that, so construed, the provision was invalid as -being
a regulation of interstate commerce because it linked the
interstate rate to the rate for the shorter haul and thus
the interstate charge was directly controlled by the state
law. (184 U. S., pp. 41, 43.) The authority of the former
decision upholding the state law, as applied to places all of
which were within the State, was in no way impaired and
the court fully recognized. the power of the State to prescribe maximum charges for intrastate traffic although
carried over an interstate road to points on the state line.
(Id., pp. 33, 42.)
The case of Minneapolis & S Louis Railroad Co. v.
Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257, involved shipments of hard coal
in carload lots from Duluth, Minnesota, to points in the
southern and western portions of that State. The Railroad
and Warehouse Commission of Minnesota, in 1899, prescribed a joint rate to be observed by the St. Paul and
Duluth Railroad Company, the Minneapolis and St. Louis
Railroad Company and other carriers. The state court
directed the issue of a writ of mandamus to compel compliance with the order. It was objected that the act under

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

which the order was made was unconstitutional so far
as it assumed to establish joint through rates over the
lines of independent connecting railroads and to divide
joint earnings, and that the tariff as fixed was not compensatory. This court affirmed the judgment. In Alabama & Vicksburg Railroad Co. v. Mississippi Railroad
Commission, 203 "U.S. 496, the company made what it
called a "rebilling rate" on grain shipped from Vicksburg
to Meridian, Mississippi, which was applicable only in
case of shipments received at Vicksburg over the Shreveport line. It gave, however, to such shippers an option for
a specified time to send other grain from Vicksburg instead, and thus it was in fact a local rate. To end this
discrimination, the state commission, in 1903, fixed the
same rate for all grain products shipped from Vicksburg to
Meridian. It was urged that the effect of the order would
be to force the plaintiff to enter into joint through interstate tariffs and divisions with all lines reaching Vicksburg by rail or river whether it desired such arrangements
or not. The court sustained the order holding that it
was competent for the State to enforce equality as to local
transportation, and that this equality could not be defeated "in respect to any local shipments by arrangements
made with or to favor outside companies."
In Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. North Dakota, 216
U. S.579, the Attorney General of North Dakota charged
the company with continuous violation of a law fixing
rates for the carriage of coal within the State (North
Dakota, Laws of 1907, c. 51) and asked for an injunction.
It appears by the record that in its return to the rule to
show cause in the state court, the company alleged that
the statute was void because repugnant to the commerce
clause and also that the rate fixed thereby was confiscatory.
In support of the last contention the return set forth that
the maximum rates for carrying coal which the company
was allowed to charge under the act in question, were

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

greatly lower than the rates for similar service fixed by
Minnesota for that State (reference being made to c. 232
of the Laws of 1907, the commodity rate act no~w in question) and those fixed by the Railroad Commissions of
Illinois and Iowa, respectively; and that the conditions
existing in North Dakota made it impossible to transport
coal at a less rate than in the States named. The contention that the act violated the interstate commerce clause
was said by the Supreme Court of the State to be based
upon the assumption that state regulation of local rates
on interstate lines amounted to an interference with
interstate commerce. In view of the decisions of this
court, the last question was not considered open to debate. State v. Northern Pacific Railway Co., 19 N. Dak.
45, 55. This ruling was not challenged by the argument
for the plaintiff in error here, and the question as to interference with interstate commerce was treated as removed from the case by the holding of the, state court
that the rates applied only to transportation within the
State. (216 U. S., p. 580.)
To suppose, however, from a review of these decisions,
that the exercise of this acknowledged power of the State
may be permitted to create an irreconcilable conflict withthe authority of the Nation, or that through an equipoise
of powers an effective control of interstate commerce is
rendered impossible, is to overlook the dominant operation
of the Constitution which, creating a Nation, equipped
it with an authority, supreme and plenary, to control
National commerce and to prevent that control, exercised
in the wisdom of Congress, from being obstructed or destroyed by any opposing action. But, as we said at the
outset, our system of government is a practical adjustment by which the National authority as conferred by
the Constitution is maintained in its full scope without
unnecessary loss of local efficiency.. It thus clearly appear i that, under the etstablished principles governing

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

state action, the State of Minnesota did not transcend the
limits of its authority in prescribing the rates here involved, assuming them to be reasonable intrastate rates.
It exercised an authority appropriate to its territorial jurisdiction and not opposed to any action thus far taken
by Congress.
The interblending of operations in the conduct of interstate and local business by interstate carriers is strongly
pressed upon our attention. It is urged that the same
right-of-way, terminals, rails, brilges, and stations are
provided for both classes of traffic; that the proportion of
each sort of business varies from year to year and, indeed,
from day to day; that no division of the plant, no apportionment of it between interstate and local traffic, can
be made to-day, which will hold to-morrow; that terminals,
facilities and connections in one State aid the carrier's
entire business and are an element of value with respect
to the whole property and the business in other States;
that securities are issued against the entire line of the
carrier and cannot be divided by States; that tariffs
should be made with a view to all the traffic of the road
and should be fair as between through and short-haul
business; and that, in substance, no, regulation of rates
can be just, which does not take into consideration the
whole field of the carrier's operations, irrespective of
state lines. The force of these contentions is emphasized
in these cases, and in others of like nature, by the extreme
difficulty and intricacy of the calculations which must be
made in the effort to establish a segregation of intrastate
business for the purpose of determining the return to
which the carrier is properly entitled therefrom.
But these considerations are for the practical judgment
of Congress in determining the extent of the regulation
necessary under existing conditions of transportation to
conserve and promote the interests of interstate commerce.
If the situation has become such, by reason of the inter-

TRE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Coult.

blending. of the interstate and intrastate operations of
interstate carriers, that adequate regulation' of their interstate rates cannot be maintained without imposing requirements with respect to their intrastate rates which
substantially affect the former, it is for Congress to determine, within the limits of its constitutional authority
over interstate commerce and its instruments the measure
of the regulation it should supply. It is the function of
this court to interpret and apply the law already enacted,
but not under the guise of construction to provide a more
comprehensive scheme of regulation than Congress has
decided upon. Nor, in the absence of Federal action, may
we deny effect to the laws of the State enacted within the
field which it is entitled to occupy until-its authority is
limited through the exertion by Congress of its paramount
constitutional power.
Second. Are the State's acts and orders confiscatory?
The rate-making power is a legislative power and necessarily implies a range of legislative discretion. We do
not sit as a board of revision to substitute our judgment
for that of the legislature, or of the commission lawfully
constituted by it, as to matters within the province of
either. San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S.
439, 446. The case falls within a well defined category.
Here we have a general schedule of rates, involving the
profitableness of the intrastate operations of the carrier
taken as a whole, and the inquiry is whether the State has
overstepped the constitutional. limit by making the rates
so unreasonably low that the carriers are deprived of their
property without due process of law and denied the equal
protection of the laws.
The property of the railroad corporation has been devoted to a public use. There is always the obligation
springing from the nature of the business in which it is
engaged-which private exigency may not be permitted
to ignore-that there shall not be an exorbitant charge
VOL. CUNNXx--28

OCTOBER TERM, 1912
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

for the service rendered. But the State has not seen fit to
undertake the service itself; and the private property
embarked in it is not placed at the mercy of legislative
caprice. It rests secure under the constitutional protection which extends not merely to the title but to the right
to receive just compensation for the service given to the
public. Stone v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., supra; Georgia
Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174, 179; Chicago &c. Ry.
Co. v. Minnesota, supra;Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., supra; St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S.
649, 652; Covington &c. Turnpike Road Co. v.-Sandford,
164 U. S.578, 596, 597; Smyth v. Ames, supra; San Diego
Land & Town Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739, 754;
San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, supra; Stanislaus
County v. San Joaquin Co., 192 U. S. 201, 215; Knoxville
v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 17; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 41.'
In determining whether that right has been denied, each
case must rest upon its special facts. But the general
principles which are applicable 'in a case of this character
have been set forth in the decisions.
(1.) The basis of calculation is the "fair value of the
property" used for the convenience of the public. Smyth
v. Ames, supra (p,. 546). Or, as it was put in San Diego
Land & Town Co. v. National City, supra (p. 757), "What
the company is entitled to demand, in order that it may
have just compensation, is a fair return upon the reasonable value of the property at the time it is being used for
the public." See also San Diego Land & Town Co. v.
Jasper,supra;Willcox v. ConsolidatedGas Co., supra.
(2.) The ascertainment of that value is not controlled
by artificial rules. It is not a, matter of formulas, but
there must be a reasotable jidgment having its basis in a
proper consideration of all relevant facts. The scope of
the inquiry was thus broadly described in Smyth A. Ams,
supra (pp. 546-547): "In order to ascertain that value,

'THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
2o U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

original co'st of construction, the amount expended in
permanent improvements, the amount and market value
of its bonds and stock, the present as compared with the
(rginal cost of construction; the probable earning capacity of the property under particular rates prescribed by
.4atute, and the sum required to meet operating expenses,
are all matters for consideration, and are to be given such
weight as may be just and right in each case. We do not
say that there may not be other matters to be regarded in
estimating thef, value of the property. What the company
Js entitled to ask is a fair return upon the value of that
which it employs for the public convenience. On the
other hand, what the public is entitled to demand is that
no more be exaeted from it for the use of a public highway
tn the servies rendered by it are reasonably worth."
3.) Where the business of the carrier is both interstate
'umd intrastate, the question whether a scheme- of maxirnum rates fixed by the State for intrastate transportation
arfords a fair return, must be determined by considering
separately the value of the property employed in the intrastate business and the compensation allowed in that business under the rates prescribed. This was also ruled in
ihe Smyth Case (id,, p. 541). The reason, as there stated,
that the State cannot justify unreasonably low rates
for domestic transportation, considered alone, upon the
ground that the carrier is earning large :profits on its
interstate business, and, on the other hand, the carrier
cannot justify unreasonably high rates on domestic businc ,, because only in that way is it able'to meet losses on
its interstate business.
In the present cases, the necessity of this segregation
of the domestic business in determining values and results
ol operat ioB, was recogniized by both parties. Voluminous
testimony was taken before Ow Masler, and numerous
exhibits containing data and calculations were submitted
for the purpose of showing their respective estimates

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. 8.

of the value of the entire property of the carriers in Min.nesota, the amount of income and expense in that State,
their theories of apportionment between the interstate
a id intrastate business, and their contentions as to the
net return for intrastate transportation under the state
rates. The multitude of facts which are involved makes it
impossible here to present a comprehensive review, even
in a summary way. We must be content with a statement
of the salient points and deal only with those matters
which, after a careful consideration of the entire record,
we regard as controlling our decision.
In each of the three cases (save in certain particulars
with respect to that of the Minneapolis and St. Louis
Railroad Company) the method adopted by the Master
was as follows:
The period taken for the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the rates was the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908.
During this period, all the rates in question, freight and
passenger, were actually in force, with the exception of the
coinuodity rates prescribed by the act of April 18, 1907,
which had been enjoined. The amount of the reduction in
the intrastate revenue which would have been caused by
the application of the commodity rates is shown.
The Master found the present value of the entire property of the carrier, used in the public service in the State
of Minnesota. This valuation was as of June 30, 1908,
and was inade-on the basis of the cost of reproduction new.
The Master also made figdings as to the original cost of
construction, and as to the present value on the basis
of cost of reproduction new, of the entire system of the
carrier. The estimated value of the railroad property
within the State was divided between the freight and
passenger business upon the relation of the gross revenue
derived from each. The part of the total N'-aue which
was thus assigned to the freight business within the
7:ate was then divided between the interstate and intra-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

state freight business on the basis of gross revenue; and
a similar division was made between the interstate and
intrastate business of the property value assigned to the
passenger department. In this way the Master found
the value of the property used in intrastate transportation, freight and passenger, upon which he computed the
net return received by the carrier.
There was no substantial dispute as to the amount of
the entire revenue assignable to the State or as to its
division between interstate and intrastate business, as an
examination of the transactions in which the revenue was
obtained permitted the making of the requisite apportionments with reasonable certainty.
The Master also ascertained the total expense incurred
by the carrier within the State. 'this expense was first
divided between freight and passenger business. Those
items of cost which were directly incurred in each sort of
business, and not common to both, were directly assigned;
and such items were found to cover about sixty per cent.
of all expenses. The remaining items, those of common
expense, were divided between the freight and passenger
business upon the relation, as to most of them, of revenue
train-miles, and as to the others, of revenue engine-miles.
Having thus ascertained the share of the expense within
the State of the freight and passenger departments respectively, it remained to divide that share, in each case,
between the interstate and intrastate business. This
apportionment was made, in the case of freight expense,
upon what was termed an "equated ton-mile basis;"
and in the case of passenger expense upon an "equated
passenger-mile basis." That is to say, the Master concluded that the cost per ton-mile of doing the intrastate
freight business was at least two and one-half times the
cost per ton-mile of the interstate freight business, and
hence he divided the total freight expense according to the
relation of the interstate and intrastate ton-miles after

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

the latter had been increased two and one-half times.
In the case of the passenger expense, he concluded that
the cost per passenger-mile in the intrastate business was
at least fifteen per cent. greater than that in the interstate
business, and the total passenger expense was divided upon
-the relation of passenger-miles after increasing the int rastate passenger-miles fifteen per cent. By the use of
equalizing factors, the same result was obtained upon what
was called an "equated revenue basis." 2
The method is illustrated from the following extract from the findings in the Northern Pacific Case:
EQUATED TON-MILE BASIS.

Freight-On basis of I Intrastate
ton mile costing as muoh as 2.5
Interstate ton miles.
Actual

Equated

Proportion

Operating Exps.

Intra. ton mi. 130,580,988X 2.5=326,452,470=25.362% $1,355,273.82
Inter. ton mi. 960,709,494X 1.0=960,709,494=74.638% 3,988,444.43
1,091,290,482

1,287,161,964= 100.%

$5,343,718.25

EQUATED PASSENGER-MILE BASIS.

Passenger-On basis of 100 Intrastate passenger miles costing as
inuch as 115 Interstate passenger. miles,
Aetual

Equated'

Proportion Operating Ezps.

I ntrastate passenger miles 52,317,140X 1.15 - 60,164,711 = 37.347% $863,325.18
Interstate passenger mailes 100,931,1 SOX 1.00 = 100,931,180=62.653% 1,448,306.77
153,24.8,320

161,095,891 =100.%

$2,311,631.95

Eqiated Revenue Basis.-In the case of the Northern Pacific Cornpany it was found that the relation of freight revenue per ton per mile
derived from the intrastate business, as compared with the interstate
business, was as 1.4387 is tp 1.0000. The relation of cost per ton per
mile in the intrastate business in proportion to revenue, to the cost

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 T.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The net profits of the interstate and intrastate businesses, respectively, passenger and freight, were then
found by deducting the apportioned share of expense from
the apportioned share of revenue, and the rate per cent.
of the net profit upon the property value assigned to each
sort of business was computed. The Master concluded
that the returns from intrastate transportation were
unreasonably low and hence that the rates in question
were confiscatory.
The validity of the result depends upon the estimates of
the value of the property within the State and the apportionments both of value and of expense between interstate
and intrastate operations.
per ton per mile in interstate business in proportion to revenue, was
then found to be as 1.7377 is to 1.0000, as follows:
250 1.4387 1.7377
100 1.0000 1.0000
The actual intrastate freight revenue was multiplied by 1.7377 to
obtain the equated revenue and thus the same percentages were obtained as on the equated ton-mile basis, as follows:
EQUATED REVENUE BASIS,

Intrastate
Interstate

FREIGHT.
Equated Revenue

Actual Revenue

$1,555,342.92X 1.7377=$2,702,719.39=25.362%
7,953,734.41=74.638%
7,953,734.41X 1.

$10,656,453.80= 100.%
The relation of revenue per passenger mile intrastate and interstate
was found to be as 1.0092 is to 1.0000; and thus, the relation of cost
per passenger mile in reltion to revenue was as 1.1395 is to 1.0000.
The division was then made as follows:
EQUATED REVENUE BASIS.

Intrastate
Interstate

PASSENGER.
Equated Revenue

Actual Revenue

$1,015,150.34 X1.1395=$1,156,763.81 =37.347%
1,940,718.17=6 2.j53%
1,940,718.17 X1.
-

$3,097,481.98= 100.%

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

230 U. S.

It will -be convenient to take up the three cases separately:
1. Northern Pacific Railway Company.
The par value, April 30, 1908, of the stock of this company was found to be $215,539,634:99, and of the bonds
$190,256,577.66; total, $405,796,392.65. (Included in this
statement of capital stock is the sum of $60,539,634.99
received to April 30, 1908, upon subscriptions to new
capital stock ($95,000,000) authorized by stockholders'
resolution January 7, 1907.)
These securities and their value in the market rest upon
the entire property of the company. They include assets
of considerable value (for example, the stock of the
Northwestern Improvement Company owning extensive
coal lands) which, however, do not form part of what
may be called the operating property of the company, or
that devoted to the public service, upon which the fair
return is to be calculated (15 I. C. C. Rep. 376, 397, 407).
Referring to the market value of the securities, the Master
said: "Assets and property not devoted to public service
have not been valued, and as they are a large element in
stock valuation it follows that, value of bonds and stocks
is wholly unreliable and cannot be used in these cases
as an element in determining the value of operating property or as a basis for rate-making." In this view the
Master was undoubtedly right.
Much evidence was produced before the Master for the
purpose of showing the actual cost of construction and
equipment of the entire railroad system from the beginning down to April 30, 1908. This, the Master states,
could be shown only by the corporate books and records;
and in the early history of the original company these are
somewhat obscure and uncertain and, by reason of lapse
of time, could not be verified by other proof. The total
investment cost of the railroad system of the Northern
Pacific thus shown, was $369,252,755. This included

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

certain items which the Master held not to be properly
allowable as a part of the cost, and after their deduction
the cost was found to be $312,243,555. Of this investment
cost, it appears from the evidence, submitted by the company's controller that the sum of $128,184,985.82 was
expended for construction and equipment, and for improvements and betterments, during the period from
September 1, 1896, to April 30, 1908. The Master found
that the Minnesota track mileage is substantially 21%
of the track mileage of the whole system I and that if the
cost were proportioned accordingly, the amount assignable
to the State of the entire cost of construction and equipment, as stated, would be $65,571,462.
The Master, however, and the court below in confirming
his findings, held that rates were not to be predicated upon
the original investment.
Taking, as the basis, the cost of reproduction new, the
Master found the value of the entire railroad system or
operating property of this company to be $452,666,489.2
The value of that portion of the system which was in the
State of Minnesota was separately found, on the same
basis, to be $90,204,545. It was upon this estimate of
the value of the property in the State, as apportioned
between the interstate and intrastate business, that the
Master computed the rate of return.
The total net profits of the company for the fiscal year
'The Master found that the total track mileage of the system was
7695.80 and that the track mileage in Minnesota was 1625.20. In
both cases spurs, yards and sidings were included. In Minnesota, as
shown by the company's statement, the "passing, side and industry
tracks" amounted to 512.41 miles, leaving for the single track, and
second and third main track, miles, a total of 1112.79 miles.
2 This estimate did not include the interest of the Northern Pacific
in the Spokane, Portland & Seattle Railroad which was under construction, or the Big Forks & International Falls Railway or the Minnesota
& International Railway, or in certain lines in Manitoba under lease
which were found not to be part of the operating system.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

ending June 30, 1908, from its Minnesota business (interstate and intrastate) was found to be $5,431,514.56. This
was equal to 6.021% on the entire estimated value of the
property. This showing of the results of the entire business
at once directs attention to the importance of the methods
adopted in making apportionments, but before considering these, the question is presented as to the soundness of
the underlying estimate of value. May it be accepted as a
basis for a finding that the rates are confiscatory?
Values. The items entering into the valuation, are
set forth in the margin.'
Valuation-NorthernPacific.
1. Lands for right of way, yards and terminals...
$21,024,562
2. Grading, clearing and grubbing ..............
12,331,541
374,091
3. Protection work, rip-rap, retaining walls ......
253,250
4. Tunnels ............................
3,657,576
5. Cross-ties and switch-ties ...............
6. Ballast ..........
........................
1,960,969
5,645,307
7. Rails...... ....... .....................
727,228
8. Track fastenings...........................
303,717
9. Switches, frogs and railroad crossings .........
1,600,591
10. Track laying and surfacing.. ...............
3,586,063
1t. Bridges, trestles and culverts................
12. Track and bridge tools .....................
28,073
13. Fences, cattleguards and signs...............
471,609
14. Stockyards and appurtenances ...............
37,098
15. Water stations.,....................
......
436,489
16. Coal stations .................-.........
120,039
17. Stations, buildings and fixtures.. ...........
920,423
18. Miscellaneous buildings .................... 1,054,874
19. Steam and electric power plants, gas plants.
196,338,
20. General repair shops ......................
1,162,934
21. Shop machinery andtools. ................
529,322
22. Engine houses, turntables and cinder pits ..... 1,026,346
23. Track scales .............................
38,520
24. Docks and wharves... ..................
768,306
25. Interlocking plants and
26. other signal apparatus....................14,430

THE MINNESOTA 1tATIE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The first item is:
"Lands for right-of-way, yards and terminals$21,024,562.90."
This is for the bare land, without structures or improvements of any sort, as the entire cost of reproduction
in building the road and erecting all the existing structures
is covered in other items. The Master states that the
amount thus allowed for land is made up as follows:
"Terminal properties, St. Paul appraisement of Read, Watson
& Taylor, as modified by railroad company ............
$7,645,100.24
"Add 5 per cent for the cost of acquisition and consequential
damages...................
382,255.01
27.
28.

}

Telegraph and telephone lines .............

285,145

28Y2. General office furniture ..................
73,654
29. Solidification of roadbed. (Absorbed in above)
Total 1 to 28' .....
$58,728,685
30. Engineering, superintendence, legal expenses,
42 per cent 1 to 28 .............
....
2,785,036
31. Locomotives. ........
... 3,454,040
32.. Passenger equipment .......................
1,349,829
33. Freight car equipment. ........
...........
7,519,722
34. Miscellaneous equipment ..............
372,477
35. Marine equipment (none)
Total items I to 34 ........
Freight on construction material-absorbed.
Contingencies, 5 per cent 1 to 34..........
Stores and supplies in Minnesota .........
Interest during construction, 4 per cent 22
years Items 1 to 36 ......................
40. Interest in terminal properties, St. Paul depot,
Duluth depot, Minnesota Transfer .........
36.
37.
38.
39.

$74,209,789
3,710,479
2,658,976
7,420,957
'.,204,344
$90,204,545

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

"Property acquired after appraise328,725.69
m ent.......................
"Minneapolis appraisement of Elwood, Barney and Ridgeway,
as modified by railway com4,027,616.17
pany.....................
"Add 5 per cent for acquisition and
201,380.80
consequential damages.......
"Property acquired after appraise227,737.26
ment ....................
"Duluth, appraisement of Stryker,
Mendenhall and Little....... 3,602,443.43
"Add 25 per cent for railway value,
cost of acquisition and consequential damages ............
900,610.85
"Total value of terminals........ 17,315,869.45
3,708,693.45
"Lands outside of terminals. .....
"Grand Total .................. 21,024,562.90"
The appellants insist that no more than $9,498,099.21
should have been allowed.
It is contended that the valuation was made upon a
wrong theory; that it is a speculative estimate of "cost
of reproduction;" that it is largely in excess of the market
value of adjacent or similarly situated property; that it
does not represent the present value, -inany true sense,
but constitutes a conjecture as to the amount which
the railway company would have to pay to acquire its
right-of-way, yards and terminals, on an assumption, itself
inadmissible, that, while the railroad did not exist, all
other conditions, with respect to the agricultural and industrial development of the State, and the location, population and activities of towns, villages and cities, were
as they now are.
We may first .consider the basis for the finding with
respect to the "lands outside terminals, " that is, the rightof-way and station grounds, etc., outside the three cities.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(a) Lands outside terminals. The complainants' witness was Mr. Cooper, the Land Commissioner of the
company, who has charge of the land grants for its entire
system, of its right-of-way and land purchases, and has
had a wide experience in connection with land values
along the lines of the railway. In the latter part of 1906,
the State notified the company to report the value of its
properties, requiring a statement in one column of the
"market value" and in another column, of the "value
for railway purposes." Mr. Cooper was instructed to
prepare the valuation for this report. From the information he received in special inquiries, and his own knowledge, and following what he understood to be the instructions from the State, he set down under the heading of
"market value," not the market value in the proper sense
of that term,.but what in his judgment it would cost the
railroad company to acquire the land. This included an
excess which he estimated the company would have to
pay over the market value of contiguous and similar
property if it were called upon to undertake such a reproduction, of its right-of-way. It did not, however,
embrace an allowance for payments which might have
to be made for improvements that possibly might be
found upon the property in such case, or for the consequential or severance damages which might possibly
have to be met, or fqr the expense of acquisition. These
supposed additional outlays he undertook to estimate.
For this purpose he increased the "market Value" as
stated (in the case of agricultural lands generally multiplying it by three) and thus reached the amount set down
as the "value for railway purposes." As it serves clearly
to illustrate the theory upon which the land valuations
were made, we make the following excerpts from Mr.
Cooper's testimony:
"The Master, When you speak of value, you mean cost of
purchase?

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

"Witness: Cost of purchase; we are using the word 'value'
somewhat wrongly, as we are talking along here. It is
the cost of purchasing that property to-day.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Witness: The word 'value' doesn't seem to me to fit this
case, because all the time we are figuring on the cost of
reproducing this property, and our instructions from
the State use the word 'reproduce.' Now, if a railroad company could buy property at what is generally considered its value, the -word 'value' would fit
in all right, but there isthis excess which a railroad
company has to pay beyond what is generally accepted as its value whiah increases the cost of reproducing a railroad property.
"Q. And this excess' which you now speak of is included
in your market values as reported to the State and
used in your testimony?, A. That is right.
*
*
. . Well,. now, does the term 'market value' as
you have used it in making this report to the State
and in your testimony here, have the same meaning,
or is it used in the same sense with reference to the
values you have fixed and reported to the State for
properties on the right-of-way outside of the terminals
and outside of the larger cities? A. Oh, yes.'
"Q. As in the cities here? A. Yes; the same rule was
applied all through in the Minnesota valuations.
*
*
*
*
*
*

*

*

"Q. Therefore, your judgment as to the value of the railroad property is always that it is higher than the
value of contiguous property? A. Yes, yes, that
is true.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Q. So that, in every case, what you call the market
value is the value of contiguous or similarly situated
property, with an additional amount which a railroad
company is ordinarily compelled to pay? A. That
is right.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Q. You have put into the market value the excess which
a railroad company pays for land? A. That is correct,

"Q. Then, -when you multiply that by three, you are

"Q.

"Q.

"Q.

"Q.
"Q.

multiplying by three one of the elements going to
make up excessive cost to a railroad company?
*
*
*
*
*
*
A. That is right.
And you are unable to state how much upon the
average you have added to the true or normal market value, to allow for the additional amount whjch
the railroad company would have to pay upon the
hypothesis that it is now compelled to purchase the
land? A. That is correct.
And then having determined, to your satisfaction at
what figure or sum you would place the market value
of this property to the Railroad Company, as you
have described, you have added another sum for
severance damage, cost of improvements unnecessary
to the Company, easements in abutting property,
and general expenses? A. That is correct.
And you have determined that, in agricultural communities this second addition is shown by the use of
the multiple 3? A. I think the multiple of 3 is too low,
and I so testified in this case. When you are going
through a highly cultivated country, I think the
multiplier of 3 is not enough.
But that is what you used for the purpose of the
right-of-way value of land through the agricultural
communities? A. That is right, in this State.
And in the cities, in the three large 'terminals, you
have added to what you describe as the market
value of the lands to the Railroad Company, ascertained as described by you already, the amount
necessary to produce .the difference showh in your
testimony between the market value of the tearminals
and the right-of-way value? A. That is right.
And while you are able to show, and we can ascertain

OCTOBER TERM, -112.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

from an inspection of your testimony, the amount of
the difference between the market value to the Railroad Company, as you have described, and the rightof-way value, and, in the rural communities or agricultural districts, fhe difference between the market
value to you and the right-of-way value, there is
nothing in any of your exhibits which will show, nor
are you now prepared to state, the difference in what
might be termed the normal, true, ordinary market
value of the lands to the ordinary individual, and the
sum which you have fixed as the market value to the
Railroad Company if it were now compelled to purchase? A. That is correct."
The "market value" of the lands (outside of the
three cities) thus fixed and reported to the State was
$2,008,491.50, and the increased amount estimated, in the
manner stated, which was reported as the "value for railway purposes" was $4,944,924.60. The latter amount was
submitted by the complainants in this case as the value of
the lands. The Master thought: that the complainants'
witness used too large a multiplier and allowed 75 per
cent. of the amount thus claimed, or $3,708,693.45, stating that this was determined upon as the "fair reproduction value of the property." This allowance, it will be
observed, was about $1,700,000 in excess of Mr. Cooper's
estimate of "market value" as that term was used in
making the report.
(b) Terminal properties. This term is used to designate
the lands for the right-of-way, yards and terminals in
St. Paul, Minneapolis and Duluth. The total original
cost of these lands to the company (according to its statement based on the best information obtainable) including
purchases to April 30, 1908, was $4,527,228. 76. The Master allowed as their value, apart from the improvements
made by the company which, as we have said, were em-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

braced in the other items of reproduction cost, the sum of
$17,315,869.45.
In preparing the valuation for the report to the State,
Mr. Cooper employed real estate men in each of the cities
to make an appraisement. He instructed them, as he
testifies, "to make a conservative report of the cost reproducing the properties owned by the company in each
of their respective cities." They divided the property
into districts and reported their estimate of units of value,
as, for example, by the square foot. Mr. Cooper took these
reports, discussed their valuations with the appraisers
and aided by his own knowledge, formed an independent
judgment, in no case increasing and, in some instances
(with respect to certain St. Paul and Minneapolis property) reducing the appraisers' values. He then set forth
under the heading "market value" in the report to the
State, as described in the testimony we have quoted,
his estimate of what it wohld cost the company to purchase these lands, exclusive of improvements that might
be upon them, severance and consequential damages
and expenses incident to acquisition. The amounts he
thus fixed were as follows: For the property in St. Paul,
$7,645,100.24; in Minneapolis, $4,027,616.17; in Duluth,
$3,555,593.93. In the case of the St. Paul and Minneapolis properties the amounts are precisely those adopted by
the Master in his findings, and to this he adds 5 per cent.
to cover cost of acquisition and consequential damages.
The Master was of the 6pinion that the appraisers of these
properties were "fully impressed with their value for railroad purposes" and that their appraisement as verified by
them before him and modified by the railway company
"is a generous valuation and should be accepted as full
railroad value of the terminal .properties," and it was so
accepted with the addition above stated. With respect
to the Duluth property, wher6 the appraisement appears
to have rested upon the ordinary values of real estate,
VOL. ccxxx-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the .Court.

230 U. S.

the Master sets forth as~the appraised value, $3,602,443.43,
to which he adds 25 per cent. or $900,610.85 "for railway
value, cost of. acquisition and consequential damages."
In reviewing the findings, the court below reached the
conclusion that "the Master in effect found that the cost
of reproduction and the present value of the lands for
the terminals in the three great cities, including therein
all cost of acquisition, consequential damages, and value
for railroad use which he allowed, was only about 30
per cent. more than the normal value of the lands in sales
between private parties. -He found the value of the lands
outside the terminals to be only twice their normal value."
From our examination of the evidence we are unable
to conclude that the excess stated may be thus limited.
What is termed the normal value does not satisfactorily
appear. It further will be observed-from the summary
of valuations we have set forth inthe margin '-that the
amount thus allowed in Item 1 for lands, yards and
terminals, both in and out of the three cities ($21,024,562),
was included in' the total on which 412 per cent. was
allowed in Iten 30 for "Engineering, superintendence,
legal expenses," and again was included in the total on
which 5 per cent. was allowed in Item 37 for "Contingencies," and, in addition, was included in the total on
which 10 per cent. was allowed in Item 39 for "Interest
during construction."
These are the results of the endeavor to apply the costof-reproduction method in determining the value of the
right-of-way. It is at once apparent that, so far as the
estimate rests upon a supposed compulsory feature of
the acquisition, it cannot be sustained. It is said that the
company would be compelled to pay more than what
is the normal market value of property in transactions
between private parties; that it would lack the freedom
ISee note, p. 442.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they enjoy, and, in view of its needs, it would have to
give a higher price. It is also said that this price would
be in excess of the present market value of contiguous or
similarly situated property. It might well be asked, who
shall describe the conditions that would exist, or the
exigencies of the hypothetical owners of the property, on
the assumption that the railroad were removed? But,
aside from this, it is impossible to assume, in making a
judicial finding of what it would cost to acquire the property, that the company would be compelled to pay more
than its fair-market value. It is equipped with the governmental power of eminent domain. In view of its public
purpose, it has been granted this privilege in order to
prevent advantage being taken of its necessities. I t
would be free to stand upon its legal rights and it cannot
be supposed that they would be disregarded.
It is urged that, in this view, the company would be
bound to pay the "railway value" of the property. But,
supposing the railroad to be obliterated and the lands to
be held by others, the owner of each parcel would be entitled to receive on its condemnation, its fair market value
for all its available uses and purposes. United States v.
Chandler-DunbarWater Power Co., decided May 26, 1913,
229 U. S. 53. If, in the case of any such owner, his property
had a peculiar value or special adaptation for railroad
purposes, that would be an element to 'be 'considered.
Mi.sissippi &c. Boom Company v. Patterson, 98 U. S.
403; Shoemaker v. iUnited States, 147 U. S. 282; United
States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co., supra. But still the inquiry would be as to the fair market value of the property;
as to what the owner had lost, and not what the taker
had gained.' Boston Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217
U. S. 189, 195. The owner would not be entitled to demandZ payment of the amount which the property might
be deemed worth to the company; or of an enhanced value
by virtue of the purpose for which it was-taken; or of an

OCTOBER TERM. 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

increase over its fair market value, by reason of any added
value supposed to result from its combination with tracks
acquired from others so as to make it a part of a continuous railroad right-of-way held in one ownership. United
States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., supra; Boston Chamber of
Commerce v. Boston, supra. There is no evidence before
us from which the amount which would properly be
allowable in such condemnation proceedings can be ascertained.
Moreover, it is manifest that an attempt to estimate
what would be the actual cost of acquiring the right-ofway, if the railroad were not there, is to indulge in mere
speculation. The railroad has long been established; to it
have been linked the activities of agriculture, industry
and trade. Communities have long been dependent upon
its service, and their growth and development have been
conditioned upon the facilities it has provided. The uses
of property in the communities which it serves are to a
large degree determined by it. The values of property
along its line largely depend upon its existence. It is an
integral part of the communal life. The assumption of
its non-existence, and at the same time that the values
that rest upon it remain unchanged, is impossible and
cannot be entertained. The conditions of' ownership of
the property and the amounts which would have to be
paid in acquiring the right-of-way, supposing the railroad
to be removed, are wholly beyond reach of any process of
rational determination. The cost-of-reproduction method
is of service in ascertaining the present value of the plant,
when it is reasonably applied and when the cost of reproducing the property may be ascertained with a proper
degree of certainty. -But it does not justify the acceptance
of results which depend- upon mere conjecture. It is
fundamental that the judicial power to declare legislative
action invalid upon constitutional grounds is to be exercised only in clear cases. The constitutional invalidity

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

must be manifest and if it rests upon disputed questions
of fact, the invalidating facts must be proved. And this
is true of asserted value as of other facts.
The evidence in these cases demonstrates that the appraisements of -the St. Paul and Minneapolis properties
which were accepted by the Master were in substance appraisals of what was considered to be the peculiar value
of the railroad right-of-way. Efforts to express the results
in the'terms of a theory of cost of reproduction fail, as
naturally they must, to alter or obscure the essential
character of the work undertaken and performed. Presented with an impossible hypothesis, and endeavoring to
conform to it, the appraisers-men of ability and experience-wcre manifestly seeking to give their best judgment as to what the railroad right-of-way was worth. And
doubtless it was believed that it might cost even more to
acquire the property, if one attempted to buy into the
cities as they now exist and all the difficulties that might
be imagined as incident to such a "reproduction" were
considered. The railroad right-of-way was conceived to
be a property sui generis, "a large body of land in a continuous ownership," representing one of the "highest
uses" of property and possessing an exceptional value.
The estimates before us, as approved by the Master, with
his increase of 25 per cent. in the case of the Duluth property, must be taken to be estimates of the "railway value"
of the land; and whether or not this is conceived of as paid
to other owners upon a hypothetical reacquisition of the
property is not controlling when we come to the substantial question to be decided.
That question is whether, in determining the fair present value of the property of the railroad company as a
basis of its charges to the public, it is entitled to a valuation of its right-of-way not only in excess of the amount
invested in it, but also in excess of the market value of
contiguous and similarly situated property. For the pur-

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

pose of making rates, is its land devoted to the public use
to be treated (irrespective of improvements) not only as
increasing in value by reason of the activities and general
prosperity of the community, but as constantly outstripping in this increase, all neighboring lands of like
character, devoted to other uses? If rates laid by competent authority, state or National, are otherwise just and
reasonable, are they to be held to be unconstitutional
and void because they do not permit a return upon an
increment so calculated?
It is clear that in ascertaining the present value we are
not limited to the consideration of the amount of the actual investment. If that has been reckless or improvident,
losses may be sustained which the community does not
underwrite. As the company may not be protected in its
actual investment, if the value of its property be plainly
less, so the making of a just return for the use of the property involves the recognition of its fair value if it be more
than its cost. 'The property is held in private ownership
and it is that property, and not the original cost of it, of
which the owner may not be deprived without due process
of law. But still it is property employed in a public calling,
subject to governmental regulation and while under the
guise of such regulation it may not be confiscated, it is
equally true that there is attached to its use the condition
that charges to the public shall not be unreasonable. And
where the inquiry is as to the fair value of the property,
in order to determine the reasonableness of the return
allowed by the rate-making power, it is not admissible to
attribute to the property owned by the carriers a speculafive increment of value, over the amount invested in it
and beyond the value of similar property owned by others,
solely by reason of the fact that it is used in the public
service. That would be to disregard the essential conditions of the public use, and to make the public use destructive of the public right.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The increase sought for "railway value" in these cases
is an increment over all outlays of the carrier and ever the
values of similar land in the vicinity. It is an increment
which cannot be referred to any known criterion, but must
rest on a mere expression of judgment which finds no
proper test or standard in the transactions of the business
world. It is an increment which in the last analysis must
rest on an estimate of the value of the railroad use as compared with other business uses; it involves an appreciation
of the returns from rates (when rates themselves are in
dispute) and a sweeping generalization embracing substantially all the activities of the community. For an
allowance of this character there is no warrant.
Assuming that the company is entitled to a reasonable
share in the general prosperity of the communities which
it serves, and thus to attribute to its property an increase
in value, still the increase so allowed, apart from any improvements it may make, cannot properly extend beyond
the fair average of the normal market value of land in the
vicinity having a similar character. Otherwise we enter
the realm of mere conjecture. We therefore hold that it
was error to base the estimates of value of the right-of-way,
yards and terminals upon the so-called "railway value"
of the property. The company would certainly have no
ground of complaint if it were allowed a value for these
lands equal to the fair average market value of similar
land in the vicinity, without additions by the use of
multipliers, or otherwise, to cover hypothetical outlays.
The allowances made below for a, conjectural cost of acquisition and consequential damages must be disapproved;
and, in this view, we also think it was error to add to the
amount taken as the present value of the lands the further
sums, calculated on that value, which were embraced in the
items of "engineering, superintendence, legal expenses,"
"contingencies" and "interest during construction."
By reason of the nature of the estimates, and the poiPs

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

to which the testimony was addressed, the amount of the
fair value of the company's land cannot be satisfactorily
determined from the evidence, but it sufficiently appears
for the reasons we have stated that the amounts found
were largely excessive.
Finding this defect in the proof, it is not necessary to
consider the objections which relate to the sources from
which the property was derived or its mode of acquisition,
or those which are urged to the inclusion of certain lands
which it is said were not actually used as a part of the
plant; and we express no opinion upon the merits of these
contentions.
The property other than land, as the detailed statement
shows, embraced all items of construction, including roadbed, bridges, tunnels, etc., structures of every sort, and
all appliances and equipment. The cost of reproduction
new was ascertained by reference to the prices for such
work and property. In view of the range of the questions.
we have been called upon to consider, we shall not extend
this opinion for the purpose of reviewing this estimate, or
of passing upon exceptions to various items in it, as their
disposition would not affect the result.
The Master allowed the cost of reproduction new without deduction for depreciation. It was not denied that
there was. depreciation in fact. As the Master said,
"everything on and above the road-bed depreciates from
wear and weather stress. The life of a tie is from eight to
ten years only. Structures become antiquated, inadequate
and more or less dilapidated. Ballast requires renewal,
tools and machinery, wear out, cars, locomotives and
equipment,, as time goes on, are worn out or discarded for
newer types." But it was found that this depreciation
was more than offset by appreciation; that "the road-bed
was constantly increasing in value"; that it "becomes
solidified, embankments and slopes or excavations become
settled and stable and so the better resist the effects of

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rains and frost"; that it "becomes adjusted to surface
drainage, and the adjustment is made permanent by concrete structures and rip-rap"; and that in other ways, a
road-bed long in use "is far more valuable than one newly
constructed." It was said that "a large part of the depreciation is taken care of by constant repairs, renewals,
additions and replacements, a sufficient sum being annually set aside and devoted to this purpose, so that this,
with the application of road-bed and adaptation to the
needs of the country and of the public served, together
with working capital .
. fully offsets all depreciation and renders the physical properties of the road not
less valuable than their cost of reproduction new." And
in a further statement upon the point, the "knowledge
derived from experience" and "readiness to serve" were
mentioned as additional offsets.
We cannot approve this disposition of the matter of
depreciation. It appears that the Master allowed, in the
cost of reproduction, the sum of $1,613,612 for adaptation
and solidification of road-bed, this being included in the
item of grading and being the estimate of the engineer of
the state commission of the proper amount to be allowed.
It is also to be noted that the depreciation in question is
not that which has been overcome by repairs and replacements, but is the actual existing depreciation in the plant
as compared with the new one. It would seem to be inevitable that in many parts of the plant there should be
such depreciation, as for example in old structures and
equipment remaining on hand. And when an estimate
of value is made on the basis of reproduction new, the
extent of existing depreciation should be shown and deducted. This apparently was done in the statement submitted by this company to the Interstate Commerce
Commission in the Spokane Rate Case in connection with
an estimate of the cost of reproduction of the entire system as of March, 1907. (See 15 I. C. C. Rep. 395, 396.) In

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

the present case, it appears that the engineer of the state
commission estimated the depreciation in the property
at between eight and nine nillion dollars. If there are
items entering into the estimate of cost which should be
credited with appreciation, this also should appear, so
that instead of a broad comparison there should be specific
findings showing the items which enter into the account of
physical valuation on both sides.
It must be remembered that we are concerned with a
charge of confiscation of property by the denial of a fair
return for its use; and to determine the truth of the
charge there is sought to be ascertained the present value
of the property. The realization of the benefits of property must always depend in large degree on the ability
and sagacity of those who employ it, but the appraisement
is of an instrument of public service, as property, not of the
skill of the users. And when particular physical items are
estimated as worth so much new, if in fact they be depreciated, this amoifnt should be found and allowed for.
If this is not done, the physical valuation is manifestly
incomplete. And it must be regarded as incomplete in
this case. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 10.
Apportionment of Values. As the rate of net return from
the entire Minnesota business (interstate and intrastate)Y
during the test year was 6.021 per cent. on a valuation of
$90,204,545, and would be greater if computed upon a
less value, we are brought to the question whether the
methods of apportionment adopted are so clearly appropriate and accurate as to require a finding of confiscation of property used in the intrastate business.
The apportionment of the value of the property, as
found, between the interstate and intrastate business was
made upon the basis of the gross revenue derived from
each. This is a simple method, easily applied, and for
that reason has been repeatedly used. It has not, however, been approved by this court apd its correctness

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is how challenged. Doubtless, there may be cases where
the facts would show confiscation so convincingly in any
event, after full allowance for possible errors in computation, as to make negligible questions arising from the use of
particular methods. But this case is not of that character.
In support of this method, it is said that a division of the
value of the property according to gross earnings is a
division according to the "value of the use," and therefore
proper. But it would seem to be clear that the value of
the ue is not shown by gross earnings. The gross earnings
may be consumed by expenses, leaving little or no profit.
If, for example, the intrastate rates Were- so far reduced as
to leave no net profits, and the only profitable business was
the interstate business, it certainly could not be said that
the value of the use was measured by the gross revenue.
It is not asserted that the relation of expense to revenue
is the same in both businesses; on the contrary, it is insisted that it is widely different. The Master found that
the revenue per ton-mile in the intrastate business, as
compared with the revenue per ton-mile in the interstate
business, was as 1.4387 to 1.0000. And, on his assumption
as to the extra cost of doing the intrastate business,
he reached the conclusion that the cost per ton-mile in
proportion to the revenue per ton-mile in the intrastate
business, as compared with the interstate business, was as
1.7377 to 1.0000. It is contended, according to the computations, that only a little over 10 per cent. of the entire
net revenue of the test year ($5,431,514.66) was made
in the intrastate business, and that 90 per cent. thereof
was made in the interstate business; but approximately
21 per cent. of the total value of the property was assigned
to the intrastate business.
If the property is to be divided according to the value
of the use, it is plain that the gross-earnings method is
not an accurate measure of that value.
In Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. Co.
v. Tompkins, 176

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

U. S. 167, the court below had found the value of the
plaintiffs' property in South Dakota to be $10,000,000,
and had divided it between the interstate and intrastate
business according to the gross receipts from each. Mr.
Justice Brewer, in delivering the opinion of the court,
after referring to the result reached, said:
"Such. a result indicates that there is something wrong
in the process by which the conclusion is reached. That
there was, can be made apparent by further computations,
and in them we will take even numbers as more easy of
comprehension. Suppose the total value of the property
in South Dakota was $10,000,000, and the total receipts
both from interstate and local business were $1,000,000,
one half from each. Then, according to the method purthe property used in
sued by the trial court, the value oft
earning local receipts would be $5,000,000, and the per
cent. of receipts to value would be. 10 per cent. The
interstate receipts being unchanged, let the local receipts
by a proposed schedule be reduced to one fifth of what
they had been, so that instead of receiving $500,000 the
company only receives $100,000. The total receipts for
interstate and local -business being then $600,000, the
valuation of $10,000,000, divided between the two, would
give to the property engaged in earning interstate receipts
in round numbers $8,333,000, and to that engaged in
earning local receipts $1,667,000. But if $1,667,000
worth of property earns $100,000 it earns six per cent.
In other words, although the actual receipts from local
business are only one fifth of what they were, the earning
capacity is three fifths of what it was. And turning to the
other side of the problem, it appears that if the value of the
property engaged in interstatebusiness is to be taken as
$8,333,000, and it earne& $500,000, its earning capacity
was the same as that employed in local business-six per
cent. So that although the rates for interstate business
be undisturbed, the process by which the trial court

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reached its conclusion discloses the same rediction in the
earning capacity of the property employed in interstate
business as in that employed in local business, in which
the rates are reduced." (Id., pp. 176-177.)
The value of the use, as measured by return, cannot be
made the criterion when the retutn itself is in question.
If the return, as formerly allowed, betaken as the basis,
then the validity of the State's reduction would have to be
tested by the very rates which the State denounced as
exorbitant. And, if the return as permitted under the
new rates be taken, then the State's action itself reduces
the amount of value upon which the fairness of the return
is to be computed.
When rates are in controversy, it would seem to be
necessary to find a basis for a division of the total value of
the property independently of ievenue, and this must be
found in the use that is made of the property. That is,
there should be assigned to each business, that proportion
of the total value of the property which will correspond to
the extent of its employment in that business. It is said
that this is extremely difficult; in particular, because of the
necessity for making a division between the passenger and
freight business and the obvious lack of correspondence
between ton-miles and passenger-miles. It does not
appear, however, that these are the only units available
for such a division; and it would seem that, after assigning
to the passenger and freight departments respectively,
the property exclusively used in each, comparable useunits might be found which would afford the basis for a
reasonable division with respect to property used in common. It is suggested that other methods of calculation
would be equally unfavorable to the state rates, but this
we cannot assume.
It is sufficient to say that the method here adopted is
not of a character to justify the court in basing upon it a
finding that the rates are confiscatory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Apportionment of Expenses. As already stated, it was
held in dividing the freight operating expenses, that the
cost of doing the intrastate freight business was two and
one-half times that of doing the interstate freight business.
That is to say, the division of expenses was made according
to ton-miles, interstate and intrastate, after the intrastate
ton-miles had been increased two and one-half times.
The substantial question is whether the proof established this extra cost with that degree of certainty which
is requisite to support a decree invalidating the state
rates.
It appeared that the cost of intrastate business was not
kept separately or set up in the accounts or statistics of
the company.
The president of the company testified as to his judgiment in the matter, whi6h was based, in the absence of
such accounts, upon the general facts of operation. His
testimony was supported by that of other eminent railroad
men, who testified in the Great Northern & Minneapolis
and St. Louis eases. The elements entering into the greater
expense of doing intrastate business were defined to be:
That the average haul was shorter, being (in the case of the
Northern Pacific) 104.52 miles for intrastate transportation as against 485.3 miles for interstate transportation;
that the state business had to be handled twice at~terminals; that the local short-haul business used most valuable
terminal facilities in order to obtain its proper handling
from the larger distributing centers, and used -those
facilities to a greater extent for the tons handled than did
the longer through business; that the amount of clerical
and warehouse labor in connection with the local business
was much greater than in the case of the long-haul through
business; that the chances of damage were greater in the
short-haul business because of the greater number of
individual transactions; that in the short-haul business
there was an excess of equipment for loading and unload-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing; that local or way freight trains were "loaded lighter';
that the wear and tear on the local trains was greater
because of frequent stopping and starting; that there was
increased switching resulting in greater damage to equipment and tracks; that the local train was' generally on
the road more hours than a through train and therefore
consumed more coal; that in -the smaller stations the
amount of shifting was large; that many of the local trains
carried passengers, involving two stops at each station,
one for passengers and the other for the local freight
work; that the manner of operation of local trains increased the chances of injury to employ6s; that the shorthaul business moved irregularly and spasmodically and
that its facilities were worked at their full capacity only
for limited periods.
From these considerations, which were elaborated in the
testimony, the witness reached the conclusion that the
"so-called local short-haul intrastate business costs anywhere from three to six or seven times, as much as the socalled long-haul through interstate business."
In the
Great Northern case, the witnesses expressed the opinion
that the extra cost of intrastate freight was three or
four times greater than that of the interstate freight.
One witness said that it would be from four to six times.
These estimates', it is understood, had relation to the cost
per ton mile.
The appellants do not dispute that business carried for
short distances on local trains is more expensive than the
handling of other business, but it is insisted that this is
due solely to the different train service that it receives..
It is said that all through trains start from divisional
points and run from one end of the division to the other.
without stop; that the local trains are made up of cars
carrying business destined for points intermediate the
termini of the division and takle up all traffic originating
at the intermediate stations; that the word "local" as

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230.U. S.

applied to these trains is not synonymous with intrastate,
but that the local trains carry a large part of the interstate
traffic both in receiving and distributing it; and that by
far the greater part of the extra cost of the local train
service is properly chargeable to interstate business. It
is also insisted that so far as this extra expense can be
charged to intrastate business, it is adequately met by
the additional revenue of that business, which per ton
mile, as compared with the interstate business, is as
1.4387 to 1.0000.
To establish these propositions, and to meet the iestimony of the complainants' witnesses, the appellants introduced an elaborate series of calculations, made by a
professional accountant, which were deduced from the
results of an extended examination of the records of the
companies. The witness made computations as to the
character of the freight on each road, dividing it between
through and local freight upon each operating division,
and then sub-dividing it between intrastate and interstate
freight. It is contended .by the appellants that these
calculations are sufficient to show that in the case of the
Northern Pacific, about 91 per cent. of the freight on
through trains was interstate and about 9 per cent.
intrastate, and that on the local trains the interstate
freight amounted to 68.67 per cent. and the intrastate,
31.33 per cent. Calculations of this witness were also
introduced showing his division of the total expenses between the passenger and freight business, and then in
each department between the interstate and intrastate
business; and by means of these, it was estimated that,
under the rates in question (assuming them to have been
applied to the business of the fiscal year ending June 30,
1907, to which the calculations were directed), the net
profits on the intrastate business as a whole would have
been slightly more than six per cent. upon an amount
equal to the share of property value attributed to that

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

business by the Master's estimate and apportionment of
total value.
These computations are assailed by the appellees as
inaccurate and as based upon erroneous estimates. We
shall not go into the details, and, for the present purpose,
we may assume that the appellees are right in their
criticism.
Our conclusions may be briefly stated. The statements
of the complainants' witnesses as to the extra cost of
intrastate business, while entitled to respect as expressions
of opinion, manifestly involve wide and difficult generalizations. They embrace, without the aid of statistical information derived from appropriate tests and submitted
to careful analysis, a general estimate of all the conditions
:of transportation and an effort to express in the terms of a
definite relation, or ratio, what clearly could be accurately
arrived at only by prolonged and minute investigation of
particular facts with respect to the actual traffic as it was
being carried over the line. The extra cost, as estimated
by these witnesses, is predicated not simply of haulage
charges, but of all the outlays of the freight service
including the share of the expenses for maintenance of way
and equipment assigned to the freight department. And
the ratio, to be accurately stated,. must also express the
results of a suitable discrimination between the interstate
and intrastate traffic on through and local trains respectively and of an attribution of the proper share of the extra cost of local' train service to the interstate traffic that
uses it. The wide range of the estimates of extra cost,
from three to six or seven times that of the interstate business per ton mile, shows both the difficulty and the lack
of certainty in passing judgment.
We are of opinion that on an issue of this character
involving the constitutional validity of state action,
general estimates of the sort here submitted, with respect
to a subject so intricate and important, should not be
VOL. CCxxx-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

accepted as adequate proof to sustain a finding of confiscation. While accounts have not been kept so as to show
the relative cost of interstate and intrastate business,
giving particulars of the traffic handled on through and
local trains, and presenting data from which such extra
cost, as there may be, of intrastate business may be suitably determined, it would appear to have been not impracticable to have had such accounts kept or statistics
prepared at least during test periods properly selected.
It may be said that this would have been a very difficult
matter, but the company having assailed the constitutionality of the state acts and orders was bound to establish its case, and it was not entitled to rest on expressions
of judgment when it had it in its power to present accurate
data which would permit the court to draw the right
conclusion.
We need not separately review the findings with respect
to the division of passenger expenses, as the same considerations are involved, with the distinction, however,
that the extra cost attributed to the intrastate business is
relatively small as compared with that charged to intrastate freight. And, in view of the conclusions reached on
the controlling questions we have considered, we express
no opinion with respect to the method adopted in dividing
expenses between the passenger and freight departments.
For the purpose of determining whether the rates permit a fair return, the results of the entire intrastate business must be taken into account. During the test year
the entire revenue, as found, from the intrastate business,
passenger and freight, amounted to $2,897,912.26. All
the rates in question were in force save the commodity
rates and it is further found that the loss that would have
accrued in intrastate commodity business, by the application of the commodity rates which were under injunction,
would have amounted to $21,493.67.
As neither the share of the expenses properly attrib-

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

utable to the intrastate business, nor the value of the
property employed in it, was satisfactorily shown, and
hence it did not appear upon the facts proved that a fair
return had been denied to the company, we are of the
opinion that the complainant failed to sustain his bill.
(2.) Great Northern Railway Company. The Master
found that at the time this suit was brought the par value
of the stock of the company was $149,577,500, and of
bonds $83,119,939; total, $232,697,439. On June 30, 1908,
the par value of the stock was $209,962,750, and of bonds,
$97,955,939.39; total $307,918,689.39. The property upon
which these securities and their value in the market are
based includes, it is found, a very considerable amount
not devoted to the public service.
The balance sheet of the company of June 30, 1908,
showed the book valuation of the entire system, employed
in the public service, to amount to $319,681,815. The
Master held that various items were included which
were not properly allowable as a part of the cost, and deducting these, there remained as the book-showing of the
total amount expended in construction and equipment,
$295,401,213. The Minnesota track mileage was found
to be practically 32.59 per cent. of the total mileage,
and upon this basis, the amount assignable to the State
of the total cost, as stated, amounted to $96,271,255.
The Master found that the cost of reproduction new
of the entire system was $457,121,469.1 The value of. the
portion of the system in Minnesota was separately found,

on the basis of reproduction new, to be $138,425,291.
The net profits of the company during the test year from
its Minnesota business, interstate and intrastate, were
$8,180,025.11, equal to 5.909 per cent. upon this estiInated value.
The items entering into the estimate are the same in
,1This (id iot include the interest of the company in the Spokalw,
Portland & Seattle Railroad, or likies under construction.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

character as those set forth in the estimate of the value
of the property of the Northern Pacific Company.1
Included in this reproduction cost was an allowance,
for "lands for right-of-way, yards and terminals," of
$25,172,650.80, as follows:
"St. Paul, appraisement of Read,
Watson and Taylor....... $ 6,433,348.00
"Add 5 per cent. for cost of acquisition and consequential damages ............. .. ........
321,667.40
"Minneapolis, appraisement of Elwood, Barney and Ridgew ay . ......................

11,619.765.00

"Add 5 per cent. for cost of acquisition and consequential damages .................

...

580,968.15

"Duluth, appraisement of Stryker,
Mendenhall and Little .......
713,280.00
"Add 25 per cent. for railroad value,
cost of acquisition and conse178,320.00
quential damages.........
"Total value of terminals......
19,847,366.55
"Lands outside of terminals ......
5,325,284.25
"Grand total ................. 25,172,650.80"

The appraisements thus referred to, adopted by the
Master with the additions stated, were made by the appraisers in the three cities who were employed in the case
of the Northern Pacific Company. The valuations were
made at the same time, and upon the same basis, as the
corresponding valuations in that case and are open to the
same objections. In the company's estimate of the value
of the lands outside these cities, the amount stated as the
market value was largely increased to obtain the "rightof-way value"; with respect to lands in agricultural seeSee page 442.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tions, the "market value" was generally multiplied by
three; and of the total amount of the estimate of the company the Master allowed seventy-five per cent. as in the
Northern Pacific case.
In addition, 4Y2 per cent. of the aggregate land values,
as found, was allowed in the item for "engineering, superintendence, legal expenses" and the further allowance of
16 per cent. of these land values was made in the item of
"interest during construction" (4 per cent. for 4 years).
In the physical valuation estimated on the basis of the
cost of reproduction new, the Master made no deduction
for depreciation, while, on the other hand, there was included under the item of grading the sum of $3,219,642 for
adaptation and solidification of road-bed. The engineer
of the state commission estimated the depreciation in the
property at approximately $13,000,000.
What has already been said in the case of the Northern
Pacific Company with respect to estimates of value, the
apportionment of value, the testimony as to the extra
cost of doing the intrastate business and the division of
expenses between interstate and intrastate business, is
equally applicable here.1 In these respects there is no
material distinction between the two cases and the same
conclusion must be reached in both.
(3.) Minneapolis & St. Louis RailroadCompany. This
case presents distinct considerations. The lines of this
company consist of about 1028 miles of track of which
396 miles are operated under lease or trackage rights.
Of its owned mileage (632 miles) approximately sixty
per cent. is in the State of Minnesota. The Master thus
describes it: "It runs south from the inland cities of St.
I The total revenue received by the Great Northern during the fiscal
year 1908, from "its intrastate business, passenger and freight, was
$4,641,829.58; iAdt
it was found that the loss that wvould have been
sustained by th"Application of the enjoined commodity rates to the
intrastate commodity traffic would have amounted to $87,261.43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Paul and Minneapolis to Des Moines, with a branch
to Storm Lake, Iowa, and a branch to the South Dakota
grain fields. Along its entire line it comes in sharp competition with strong intersecting railroad lines, and,
while as before stated, it subserves a useful public purpose
and is operated in response to public demand, it can be
maintained only by the exercise of the highest economy
and watchfulnessin its operation and to succeed must be
given greater latitude than is necessary with respect to
the more favorably located and prosperous lines of railway."
The less favorable situation of the road is fully recognized by the appellants who object to its being regarded as
affording a fair test of the sufficiency of the rates. They
say that its "total mileage and the geographical location"
are such "that it cannot be taken as typical of the railway
situation in Minnesota"; and they insist that "the important and material questions are raised by the showing
made in the Northern Pacific and Great Northern Cases."
And the appellees, on their part, assert that "it cannot be
seriously contended that the rates complained of axe sufficient to yield any reasonable return on a proportionate
value of the property used in the conduct of the business
covered by the rates"; that the net income of the road
"from all sources is scarcely sufficient to pay interest on
its outstanding bonds;" that "the value of the property
is greatly in excess of the par value of the bonds"; and
that, as it seems to the appellees, "this company must
earn more money or go into the hands of a receiver, within
a comparatively short time."
The main facts are: Tle par value in 1908, of its stock
and bonds was $30,01.1,800, divided as follows: stock,
$10,000,000 (preferred, $4,000,000, common, $6,000,000);
bonds, $20,011,800. It appeared that no dividends had
been paid on the common stock since 1904. The annual
interest charges amounted to $952,583.

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The book, cost of its property, after deducting items
disallowed by the Master, was $28,574,225; and this, if
divided according to mileage, would give to Minnesota as
its share, $17,127,390. The mileage basis of division,
however, fails to take account of the fact that the property
in Minnesota has a greater relative value.
The Master found the total value of the property in
Minnesota on the basis of the cost of reproduction new
to be $21,608,464. In this estimate there was included
the sum of $5,999,397.90 for lands, yards and terminals.
Of this amount $4,556,298 was allowed for the lands in
Minneapolis on the estimate of the same appraiseis who
had been employed in that city by the other companies;
and to this the Master added five per cent. The lands
outside these terminals were valued at $1,215,285.
The net earnings of the entire system, after paying
only operating expenses and taxes, from 1903 to 1909,
were found to be as follows: 1903, $1,398,895.30; 1904,
$1,229,524.49; 1905, $1,277,870.96; 1906, $1,511,961.99;
1907, $1,419,822.54; 1908, $1,220,862.21; 1909, $1,286,494.08,
The net earnings of the company on all its business
in Minnesota, interstate and intrastate (involving any
use of the property valued as stated), after paying only
operating expenses and taxes, were, during the same
period: 1903, $1,222,941.77; 1904, $1,052,478.74; 1905,
$1,054,853.35; 1906, $1,109,260.56; 1907, $895,977.66;
1908, $742,377.46; 1909, $794,472.58. The reference in
each case is to the fiscal year ending on June 30.
It thus appears that the net return from the entire
Minnesota business in 1907 was about 4.14 per cent. on
the estimated value of the property ($21,608,464) in
Minnesota; in 1908, less than 3.5 per cent.; and in 1909,
less than 3.7 per cent.
The Master made his computations, with respect to the
return permitted under the rates in question, upon the

OC,"TOBER TMRI, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 I. S.

operations of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907. The
class rates had been effective from November 15, 1906, and
the passenger fare act from May 1, 1907. It was estimated
by the Master that the additional loss, which would have
accrued in the intrastate business if these rates had been
in force during the entire fiscal year ending June 30, 1907,
and if in addition the commodity rate act, which was enjoined, had been applied to the intrastate traffic of that
year, would have amounted to $131,358, thus making a
very serious reduction in a return already inadequate;
and his conclusion was that the rates in question were
plainly confiscatory.
It is not necessary here to reproduce the computations,
as we are satisfied, after a careful examination of the evidence, that while the methods of estimating value, and
of apportionment, which have been disapproved in the
discussion of the cases of the other companies are subject
to the same objections in this case, so far as they have been
employed, the margin of error which may be imputed to
them is not sufficiently great to change the result. The
net return from the entire business in Minnesota, interstate and intrastate, fell to $742,000 in the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1908, and it is plain that the latter amount
would have been largely reduced had the commodity rate
act been enforced. In view of the actual results of the
business in the State, and the clearly established facts
with res)ect to the conditions of traffic upon this road,
the conclusion cannot be escaped that the rates prescribed
by the acts and orders of Minnesota would not permit a
fair return to this company.
Without approving, therefore, the methods of calculation which have been adopted, but recognizing the peculiar
situation of this road, and the undoubted effect of the
rates in question upon its revenues, we are of the opinion
that the decree, so far as it rests upon the confiscatory
character of the rates as applied to this company, should

THE MINNESOTA RATE CASES.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be affirmed. In the desire, however, to prevent the possibility that the decree may operate injuriQusly in the
future, we shall modify it by providing that the membcrs
of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission, and the
Attorney-General of the State, may apply at any time to
the court by bill or otherwise, as they may be advised, for
a further order or decree, whenever it shall appear that,
by reason of a change in circumstances, the rates fixed by
the State's acts and orders are sufficient to yield to the
company reasonable compensation for the services rendered.
The decrees in Numbers 291 and 292 are reversed and the
cases remanded with de-ections to dismiss the bills respectively without prejudice.
The decree in Number 293 is modified as stated in the opinion
and, as modified, is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

concurs in the result.

