OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

in this he made a mistake, it was one made in the course
of the exercise of his legitimate jurisdiction under § 14 of
the new Judicial Code, and we cannot compel him through
a writ of mandamus to undo what has thus been done.
Ex parte Burtis, 103 U. S. 238; In re Parsons,150 U. S. 150.
Aside from what has been said the long delay in asking the extraordinary remedy of mandamus would fully
justify this court in the exercise of a sound discretion in
denying relief.
The rule must be discharged.

ARIZONA COPPER COMPANY, LIMITED, v.
GILLESPIE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 106.

Argued January 27, 28, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.

In Arizona, by statute, all rivers, streams, and running waters arc
declared public, and may be used for purposes of milling, mining and
irrigation. The first appropriator is first in right to the extent necessary for his purposes; and neither the user for mining purposes nor
the user for agricultural purposes is placed upon a higher plane than
the other.
Where users of waters are placed, as in Arizona, upon the same plane,
the rights of lesser users are not subordinated to those of greater
users; nor is a wrong done by one to the other condoned because of
the magnitude or importance either of the public or the private in-.
terests Of the former.
Where one of several users of waters is wrongfully injuring the others
there is a remedy either at law or in equity; the latter depending upon
circumstances including the comparative injury of granting or refusing an injunction.
Where, as in this casp, the record does not show the damage which the
injunction might cause the defendant, but does show that the interests' of complainant and others of his class might be irreparably
injured by a continuance of the nuisarice, equity may grant relief.

ARIZONA COPPER CO. v. GILLESPIE.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The limitation of necessary use on the right of an appropriator of water
applies to quality as well as quantity; and the right to use necessary
water does not include the right to so destroy the quality of all the
water not used as to continuously injure the property of the other
appropriators.
The maxim si utere tuo ut alienum non iWdas applies in Arizona and
elsewhere to the use of waters by one appropriator as against another.
Although the nuisance may be a public one and others may be danaged thereby, one who shows that he suffers a special grievance net
borne by the public, may maintain a separate action for equitable
relief.
In this case held, that the contamination of waters in Arizona by a copper plant constituted a nuisance as to the lower appropriators and,
under the circumstances, an injunction was properly granted, the
Supreme Court of the Territory having provided in the decree that
the defendant might have the injunction modified on constructing
remedial works to prevent contamination. Georgia v. Tennessee
Copper Co., 206 U.,S. 230.
12 Arizona, 190, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the relative rights of appropriators of water in Arizona and the jurisdiction of a
court of equity to enjoin the contamination of the water
by an upper appropriator using the water for mining purposes in favor of a lower appropriator using it for agri-

cultural purposes, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John A. Garver and Mr. Walter Bennett for appellant:
Even if the acts complained of constituted a public
nuisance, the injury to the plaintiff did not differ in kind
from that sustained by other members of the cominunity
in which ihe plaintiff's farm was situated; a d, colscquently, the plaintiff could not maintain the action.
Joyce on injunctions, § 1081; Live Stock Co. v.- Mcllquan,
14 Wyoming, 209; Donahue v. Stockton Gas &c. Co.,
6 Cal. App. 276, 280; Kuehn, v. Milwaukee, 83 Wisconsin,
583; Jarvisv. Santa Clara, 52 California, 438.

The injury to the plaintiff did not differ in kind from

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

230 U. S.

that sustained by the other members of the community;
consequently, plaintiff could not maintain the action.
All streams of running water in the Territory Were made
public, for the purposes of irrigation and mining, including,
necessarily, as one of the incidents of the latter, the use of
water in the reduction of the ores. See Rev. Stat. 1901,
Arizona, Par. 4168, § 1; Par. 4169, § 2; Par. 4174, § 7;
Par. 4178, § 11; Par. 4179, § 12; Par. 4180, § 13; Par. 4196,
§ 29, which are substantially identical with Rev. Stat. of
1887, §§ 3198-9, 3203-5.
As the mining company can lawfully use the streams for
the purposes of its business, such use cannot be unlawful or
constitute a public nuisance, unless the company so wilfully or carelessly uses the water as to infringe upon the
rights of others. Kinney on Irrigation, §8 250, 251; 40
Cyc. 708, 713; Hill v. Standard Mining Co., 12 Idaho,
223, 236; Bernard v. Sherley, 135 Indiana, 547, 555.
Nothing of that kind was found by the court below,
and nothing of the kind is alleged in the complaint.
Even if the mining industry had not been so clearly
authorized by the legislature, it is the paramount industry of the State and overwhelmingly dominates all the
other industries. The public convenience will always be
considered in determining whether certain acts constitute
a nuisance. Pomeroy's Eq. Remedies, § 529.
Appellee has no exclusive or superior rights as prior
appropriator.
The common-laW doctrine of riparian rights has not
obtained in Arizona since 1887; and it probably has never
been recognized there. Rev. Stat. 1887, § 3198; Rev.
Stat. 1901, § 4169; Boquillas Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S. 339.
At common law, all riparian proprietors have precisely
the same rights to flowing waters, and no one could so use
the stream as to interfere with its reasonable use by those
above and below him. - Kent Comm. 439; 40 Cyc. 559;
New York v. Pine, 185 U. S. 93, 96.

ARIZ)NA COPPER CO. v. GILLESPIE.
230 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The court below erred in holding that by the abolition
of riparian rights plaintiff, as the first appropriator had
acquired the exclusive right to the use of the water which
could not be interfered with by the defendant. This error
was both as to law and facts.
No one could acquire an exclusive right to the use of
any stream for the purpose of :irrigation. All that a prior
appropriator is entitled to, as against others, is a sufficient
quantity of water to satisfy his appropriation, while its
quality cannot be impaired 'so as to interfere seriously
with the use to which it has been appropriated. Section 22,
Political Code, Arizona; Kinney on Irrigation, §§ 250,
251 -.40 Cyc. 708, 713.
Under the common-law doctrine of riparian rights a
lower riparian owner cannot complain of the reasonable
use of the stream, even if he is injured thereby. Merrifield v. Worcester, 110 Massachusetts, 216; Hayes v.
Waldron, 44 N. H. 580; Strobel v. Kerr Salt Co., 164 N. Y.
303, 320; Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Sanderson, 113 Pa. St.
126, 146.
The principle of priority is not recognized as between
an hppropriator for irrigation and a subsequent appropriator for mining -purposes. The- legislature of Arizona
in giving precedence to the mining industry merely recognized the fact that the welfare of the State is peculiarly
dependent upon the development of its mineral resources.
In view. of the natural conditions, it was -nevitable
that the legislature should have expressly provided that
the principal industry of the Territory should not be
hampered by claims of prior rights on the part of farmers
The only duty owing by a mihing company to other
users lower down the stream using the water for irrigating
purposes, is to so conduct its business as not unnecessarily
to interfere with the rights of such users.
Even if defendant has operated its reduction works
VOL. ccxxx-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

230 U. S.

carelessly, the plaintiff has an adequate remedy at law
for the damages sustained.
Under the policy of the law prevailing in Arizona,
appellee has no greater right to stop the operation of the
appellant's works than he would have to enjoin the construction of a railroad, where the railroad company possessed the power of eminent domain. Story v. N. Y. El.
R. Co., 90 N. Y. 171, 179; Am. Bank Note Co. v. N. Y.
El. R. Co., 129 N. Y. 252, 270; New York v. Pine, 185
U. S. 93, 104.
There is no ground for claiming that the damages sustained cannot be estimated. The mere fact that it might
be difficult to assess the exact damages is no reason for
granting an injunction. Wakeman v. Wheeler & Wilson
Co., 101 N. Y. 205, 209.
There should be no absolute injunction because it is
unreasonable to close the works completely when efforts
are being honestly made to lessen the evil, and because,
under the decision below, no showing is possible that the
appellant can exclude all waste material from reaching the
water.

Ina suit in equity, the conditions existing at the time
of the trial control. Haffey v. Lynch, 143 N. Y. 241, 248;
Dieterich v. Fargo, 194 N. Y. 359, 363; United States v.
Trans-MissouriFreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290, 342..
There is a distinction between the case of a suit brought
by a State and one brought by an individual, and the
disposition of this court is to grant equitable relief in
the former case but, in the latter, to leave the owner to
his action at law. See Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co.,
206 U. S. 230, 238.
•A permanent injunction will not be granted unless the
evidence clearly establishes the invasion of the plaintiff's
rights by the defendant, with a resulting substantial
injury, and there is no finding that any appreciable injury
to the plaintiff's land was caused by the defendant alone.

ARIZONA COPPER CO. v. GILLESPIE.
230 U. S.

Counsel for Appellee.

The injunction should be denied, because it would not
materially improve the plaintiff's condition. Wood v.
Sutcliffe, 3 Simons (N. R.), 163.
An injunction' will not be granted where the injuries to
the plaintiff are slight and where the consequences of
the injunction to the defendant and others may be very
injurious. 1 Spelling on Injunctions, § 417; Powell v.
B. & G. FurnitureCo., 34 W. Va. 804; Clifton Iron Co. v.
Dye, 87 Alabama, 468; Madison v. Ducktown &c. R. Co.,
113 Tennessee, 331; McClure v. Leaycraft, 183 N. Y. 36,
44.
Equity regards relative values. While an emission of
smoke might constitute a nuisance in the City of New
York, it might afford no just ground of complaint in other
places such as Pittsburgh. Bates v. Holbrook, 171 N. Y.
460, 475.
In the contemplation of personal rights, equity will
not lose sight of the public interest. A court of equity is
never active in granting relief against public convenience
merely for the purpose of protecting a technical legal right:
Smith v. Clay, 3 Brown's Ch. 639, note; Knoth v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 187 N. Y. 243; New York City v. Pine,
185 U. S. 93, 99.
If the judgment in this case is sustained, a precedent will
be established that will inevitably affect the'-entire mining
industry of Arizona. To permit the plaintiff to refuse to
accept a sum representing the damages actually sustained
or likely to be sustained by him, and insist upon an unconditional injunction which will result in obstructing and
possibly terminating a great industry, would be to furnish
him with a club to compel payment of the sum he deems
the measure of his damages. New York City v. Pine,
I85 U.,4. 93, 97.
Mr. Ernest W. Lewis, with whom Mr. Thos. Armstrong,
Jr., was on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Mn. JTTY'rTIc LuRTON delivered the opinion of I he court.

This is a bill for an injunction to restrain the appellant
from polluting a public stream, whereby the appellee has
sustained a special injury as a lower proprietor.
The Arizona. Copper Company, Limited, is engaged in
mining and reducing copper ore near the town of Clifton,
Arizona. Its concentration and reduction works, in which
ores are treated, are situated upon or adjacent to small
streams tributary to the Gila River. Much of the tailings and waste material from the reduction work is carried by the water used in the reducing process into the
streams adjacent, or is deposited nearby and is later
carried by the rains into the streams, and thence into the
Gila River. The appellee, William Allen Gillespie, is, the
owner of 276 acres of arid land on the Gila River and some
25 miles below the point where the water polluted above
finds its way into the river. He has reclaimed this land
and brought it into a high state of cultivation, through
irrigation, by means of water drawn from the river into
the Montezuma Canal, and thence, by ditches, spread
upon his cultivated land. In the dry seasons, particularly,
this water so used for irrigating purposes deposits upon
his land the tailings and waste material so suffered to get
into the tributaries of the Gila River from the reduction
works of the appellant above.
Gillespie and those preceding him in title began the
irrigation and cultivation of this tract of land in or about
1872, and have continuously appropriated a sufficiency of
water necessary for irrigating purposes from the river.
A large body of like land situated in the same valley has
been irrigated in the same way by waters drawn from the
Gila River by the Montezuma and other like canals constructed and maintained for irrigating purposes, and a
large agricultural community has grown up dependent
upon irrigation.

ARIZONA COPPER CO. c. (ILLLESPIE.
230 1i. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

In the mountains through which the streams tributary
to the Gila, River pass are great deposits of rock containing
copper ore, and since 1872 many mines have been operated.
later the ore was treated in reduction and concentration
works which have increased in extent of operations from
ime to time, until at the time this suit was begun the
capital engaged aggregated several millions of dollars and
3,000 men were employed in and about the mining and
reduction operations. Prior to 1885 the operations car-,
ried on by the mining companies do not appear to have
polluted the tributaries of the Gila to any serious extent.
Later the operations were enlarged and methods adopted
which began to more and more seriously pollute the water
used for irrigating purposes by the proprietors below.
Thus both courts below found,-" That in or about 1885
the first concentrator was erected for the reduction of ore
in connection with the mining enterprise herein mentioned;.
that some six or eight years before the
institution of this action, the water of the Gila River, at
other than flood periods, theretofore clear, became discolored by slimes, slickens and tailings and began to deposit such slimes, slickens and tailings through the irrigaing ditches herein mentioned in the normal and necessary
course of irrigation upon the lands of plaintiff and other
lands herein mentioned." The court below further found
that the quantity of such waste material carried b5 the
river and deposited upon the lands of the appellee "continuously increased until after the institution of this
suit." The harmful aod damaging character of these
deposits was found in most explicit terms by the court
below' and the charaeter of the injury elaborately explained. The appellee's bill alleged that the injury to his
crops and to his land was continuous and that his remedy
at law was inadequate, and his prayer was that the appellant be perpetually enjoined from polluting the streams
to his injury.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

Originally there were two other corporate defendants
and like relief was sought against them. One was found to
be improperly a party and the bill was dismissed as to it.
The other defendant was the Shannon Copper Company.
As to that company the court below found:
"That after the commencement of this action and before
the hearing of this cause the Shannon Copper Company,
in consideration of the dismissal of this action as to it,
agreed to spare no reasonable effort or expense to minimize
the amount of said tailings and waste material from its
said works which may find their way into said river, and if
possible to do so by any reasonable effort and expense,
that it would prevent the flow of any of said tailings and
waste material from its said works from flowing into said
river, and that said efforts should be made at once, and
continued without interruption until the object thereof
should be accomplished."
The District Court made a full finding of facts and
enjoined the appellant from 'in any manner depositing
or suffering or permitting to be deposited, or suffering or
permitting to flow into the waters of the said Gila River,
or into the San Francisco River or said Chase Creek in
such manner that they may be carried into the waters of
said Gila River, any slimes, slickens or tailings."
This judgment was to go into effect January 1, 1908.
But when the record was filed, upon appeal, in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, that court, upon a bond being
executed, suspended its operation until the case should be
determined by it. Upon a final hearing that, court confirmed the findings of fact by the court below, but modified
its judgment by p'ermitting the appellant, at its own
expense, "'to construct settling basins at or near the
,heads of the canals, or elsewhere along the river, by means
of which the tailings and slimes carried by the Gila River
from appellant's concentrators may be arrested and prevented from being deposited upon the farming lands."

ARIZONA COPPER CO. v. GILLESPIE.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"This suggestion," said the court in its opinion made
part of the judgment, "does not appear to have been
presented to the trial court, and its decree is so drawn that
such means of relief may not be availed of since appellant
is enjoined from permitting any tailings or slimes to reach
the waters of Gila River. We think, to enable the mining
company to take advantage of any efforts it may make in
this direction, it should be left to the discretion of the trial
court hereafter upon a proper showing made to it temporarily to modify the injunction so as to permit of reasonable experiments being made to ascertain the probability
of successfully erecting and maintaining settling basins
to effectually dispose of the tailings and slimes withqut
detriment to the lands lying under the canals, and with
authority in the District Court likewise permanently to
enforce or modify the injunction in accordance with the
conditions as they shall be found to be." Thus modified,
the judgment was affirmed. Later, it being made to appear
that the appellant had designed and put into operation
large settling basins and otherwise attempted to arrest,
settle and dispose of the slimes, slickens and tailings from
its works, and had succeeded in arresting much of the
waste material, and was in good faith operating and
maintaining such works, the court suspended the operation
of the judgment pending an appeal to this court.
In Arizona, by statute, all rivers, streams and running
waters are declared public, and may be used for purposes
of milling, mining and irrigation. The first appropriator
is first in right to the extent necessary for his purposes.
Whatever advantage there may be in a first appropriation of water is with the appellee. There is no question
about the quantity of water appropriated by the upper
user, the objection being that the quality of the water
which comes down to the lower proprietor after it is used
by the Copper Company is no longer fit for irrigating
purposes. Whatever the relative importance of the great

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

mining and reduction works, using the water on the
upper reaches of the Gila River and its tributary streams
and of the agriculturists using the same water below, from
either a public or private point of view, the right of the
lesser interest is not thereby subordinated to the greater.
That is sometimes a consideration when a plaintiff seeks
relief by injunction rather than by an action at law for
damages. Th wrong and injury, whether it results from
pollution of a stream or otherwise, is not condoned because
of the importance of the operations conducted by the
defendant to either the public or the wrongdoer, and for
that wrong, there must be a remedy. Whether upon a bill
such as this a court of equity will restrain the acts of the
party complained of, or leave the plaintiff to his action at
law for damages, must depend uipon the nature of the
injury alleged, whether it be irremediable in its nature,
or whether an action at law wil I afford an adequate remedy,
and upon a variety of circumstanees, including the comparative injury by granting or refusing the injunction.
Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507.
The court below found that but one of three concentrators operated by the appellant would be affected by an
injunction, and that the extent of the hardship from closing that concentrator had not been shown., On the other
hand, the court found that the agricultural interests of a
large and prosperous commuhity would suffer great injury and possible ruin, if the pollution should go on.
The Arizona statute places a water user for mining
purpcses upon no higher plane than a user for iriigation.
The suggestion that the right to use for mining and
reduction purposes cannot be exercised without polluting
the streams with waste material, tailings, etc., and that
the lower user cannot, therefore, complain of the necessary
consequences of the legal right conferred by statute, is
without force. The only subordination Of one water user
to another is the right of the first appropriator to a suffi-

ARIZONA COPPER (0. v. GILLESPIE.
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ciency of water for his necessary uses. That includes the
quality aswell as the quantity. What deterioration in the
quality of the water will constitute an invasion of the
rights of the lower appropriator will depend upon the facts
and circumstances of each case, with reference to the use
to which the water is applied. Atchison v.<Peterson,supra.
In giving a right to use the waters of the public streams for
mining purposes, the statute does not provide that such a
user may send his waste material or debris down the
stream to the destruction or substantial injury of the
riparian rights of users of water below, and no such
invasion of private property rights should be inferred or
implied from the right to use water for mining purposes.
Woodruff v. North Bloomfield Mining Co., 18 Fed. Rep.
'753. The maxim sic utere tuo ut alienum non lmedas is as
fully recognized in the jurisprudence of Arizona as it is
elsewhere, and that was the maxim which governed the
decision of this case in the courts of Arizona.
That the contamination of the waters of the Gila River
constituted a public nuisance which affected a large
community of riparian owners and users of the waters for
purposes of irrigation, may be true. That as a public
nuisance a public prosecution for its abatement might
have been maintained, may be also conceded for the purposes of this case. But it is equally true that the appellee
had and would continue to suffer a special injury not
borne by the public.
Herb the appellee alleged a special grievance to himself
affecting the enjoyment and value of his property rights
as a riparian owiaer and as an individual user of the water
for purposes of irrigation. This gives him a clear right to
apply for preventive relief. City of Georgetown v. Alexandria Canai Co., 12 Peters, 91, 98; Mississippi & M.. R.
Co. v. Ward, 2 Black, 485.
The modification of the decree of the trial court so as to
enable the appellant to complete the construction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

230 U. S.

remedial works 'specified and heretofore mentioned, met
every reasonable equity which was asserted by it. It is in
substantial accord with the decree of this court in a somewhat similar case. Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206
U. S. 230. We find no error in the decree of the court
below and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

CITY OF OWENSBORO v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 244. Argued April 22, 1913.-Decided June 16, 1913.
Rights conferred by a municipal ordinance on a corporation qualified
to conduct a public business come from the State through delegated

power to the city.
A municipal ordinance granting to a corporation qualified to carry on a
public business, such as a telephone system, the right to use the
streets for that purpose, is more than a mere revocable license; it is
the granting of a property right, assignable, taxable and alienable, an
asset of value and a basis of credit.
Such a grant is one of property rights in perpetuity unless limited in
duration by the grant itself or by a limitation imposed by the general
law of the State or by the corpoiate powers of the municipality.
The powers of municipalities of Kentucky to grant licenses in the streets
for telephones were not limited in 1889 as to time; and, under a
charter provision giving power to regulate streets and alleys, a municipality had ample power to grant a franchise to a telephone company
to place and maintain poles and wires thereon.
A corporation is capable of taking a grant of street rights of longer
duration than its own corporate existence if the grant expressly
inures to the benefit of the grantees, assigns and successors. St.
Claf Turnpike Co. v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63, distinguished.
A reservation to alter or amend in a municipal ordinance, granting
rights in the streets to a corporation to carry on a public utility, as
the necessities of the city demand, is simply a reservation of police

