OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

230 U. S.

FOURCHIE RIVER LUMBER COMPANY v. BRYANT
LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
ARKANSAS.

No. 296.

Argued May 6, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Carriers, whether saw-mill companies or railroads or both combined,
cannot purchase land by rebating to the grantor a part of the freight
rate on interstate shipments over the road built on the right of way.
A rebate made for purchase of land is illegal even though much less
than the value of the land acquired.
The prohibitions of the Act to Regulate Commerce against rebates
cannot be evaded by calling them differentials or concessions, nor by
taking the money from a corporation that is the same as the rebating carrier.
97 Arkansas, 623, reversed.

TIE facts, which involve the right, under the Act to
Regulate Commerce, of a carrier to pay rebates to a shipper

in consideration of a right of way granted by the latter,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Luther M. Walter and Mr. W. E. Hemingway, with
whom Mr. U. M. Rose, Mr. G. B. Rose, Mr. D. H. Cantrell, Mr. J. F. Louqhborouqh and Mr. M. W. Borders
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The contrac(t of August 3, 1905, became invalid as to the
rate for transportation of logs when tariffs were filed by

the Fourche River Valley & Ind. Terr. R. 1. (1o. pr,scribing another and different rate from the contract
price.
The award of the arbitrators and the judgment of the
court awarding damages equal to the amount of the
division of the joint rate received by the Fourche River
Valley & Ind. Terr. R. R. Co. constitutes a device where-

I

230 U. S.

k.. B. (.,
hU

r. HR YANT LA[MIN

(,,(), 317

Argument for 1)cfe'ndani, in Error.

by the Bryant Lumber Company is given transportation
at less than the published interstate rates.
The Interstate Commerce Commission alone has jurisdiction in the first instance to require establishment of
switch connection or award damages for failure to make
such connection or damages for unjust discrimination.
Chicago & Alton 1R. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155; Armour
Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Tex. & Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil (o., 204 U. S. 426; United
States v. Union Stock Yard & Transit Co., 226 U. S. 286;
Int. Corn. Comm. v. D., L. & W., 216 11 S. 531; Balt. & Ohio
v. United States, 215 U. S. 481.
Mr. Charles C. Reid, with whom Mr. T. M. Mehaffy
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
No right or immunity under the Interstate Commerce
Act having been pleaded or,claimed by the plaintiff in error
with sufficient particularity until the motion for rehearing
was filed in the state Supreme Court, it was then too late
to sustain writ of error. Miller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535;
Texas & Pac. R. R. Co. v. So. Pac. Co., 137 U. S. 48;
Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692, 698; Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291; Budzisz v. Ill. Steel Co.,
170 U. S. 41
The writ will not be sustained because the judgment
of the state court was based upon grounds entirely sufficient to sustain it independently of the Interstate Commerce Act, and did not regard the act as involved. Ballinger v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Detroit City R. R. Co. v.
Suthard, 114 U. S. 133; Fisherv. Cockrill, 5 Pet. 248; Allen
v. So. Pac. R. R., 173 U. S. 480.
The Fourche Lumber Con pany itself has no interest
in nor is it concerned with the validity of the rates charged
by the Fourche River Valley & Ind. Terr. R. R. Co. No
right of plaintiff in error under the Interstate Commerce
Act is denied or involved and it cannot set up such right

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

for another. McNulta v. Lochridge, 141 U. S. 327; Brown
v. Smart, 145 U. S. 455; Owings v. Norwood, 5 Cranch,
344; Hale v. Gaines, 22 Howard, 144; Iron Clifts Co. v.
Negaunee, 197 U. S. 463; Long v. Converse, 91 U. S. 105;
Pinney v. Sheppard et al., 177 U. S. 170.
That the Fourche Lumber Company received by reason
of its affiliation with the Fourche River Valley & Indian
Territory Railroad advantages in the way of rate concession which it enjoyed over the Bryant Company was a
question of fact which was determined by the judgment
of the lower court and which this court will not review.
Hendrix v. Atchison, 167 U. S. 673; Gardner v. Bonesteel,
180 U. S. 362; Christianv. Miller, 197 U. S. 313; Chapman
Land Co. v. Bigelow, 206 U. S. 41; Thayer v. Spratt, 189
U. S. 376.
MR. JusTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Bryant Lumber Co. had its mill and saw mill plant
at or near Bigelow, Arkansas, on the Rock Island Railroad. The Fourche Lumber Co.'s plant was located near
by on a spur track laid about a mile from the main line
of the Rock Island R. R. Both of these lumber companies
owned timber in a rough, hilly country which could only
be reached by a railroad, belonging to the Bryant Co.
The Fourche Lumber Co. had already built a road on this
land, claiming that it had been granted a right-of-way by
the Bryant Co., and had applied for a railroad charter.
This application was resisted by the Bryant Co., which
denied that it had made any grant of a right-of-way.
Finally, and in order to avoid threatened litigation the
parties, in August, 1905, entered into an agreement in
which, among many other matters, it was provided that
a charter should be granted to the FourcheRiver Valley
& Indian Territory R. R., to be orgapized by the Fourche
Company; that the Bryant Co. would grant this Fourche
Railroad a right-of-way and that the Fourche Co. was to

FOURCH4E R. R. CO. v. BRYANT LUMBER CO. 319
230 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

arrange for the building of switches to enable the Bryant
Co. to reach its timber, which was to be transported at
371Y2 cents per 100, and that "the price for hauling future
acquired lumber of the Bryant Co. over the Fourche R.
V. & I. T. R. R. should be fixed by a board of arbitrators,
who should have authority to settle any differences that
might arise between the parties as to the details of carrying
out the contract," and "so that the Bryant Co. might be
secured against any discrimination in favor of the Fourche
Co. in the transaction of its business, and the Fourche
Co. shall be required to carry timber and other freight
equally without discrimination for or against the Bryant Co."
The Fourche Co. agreed that it would cause the contract to be ratified by the Fourche River Valley & Indian
Territory R. R. Co. Thereafter the contract was carried
out; the Fourche R. R. was incorporated; the Bryant Co.
made to it a conveyance of the right of way as stipulated;
the railroad was constructed and hauled freight in intrastate and interstate commerce.
There was evidence that all of the stock of the
Railroad,
except one or two qualifying shares, were held by the persons who owned the Fourche Lumber Co., but the two
corporations kept separate books, and when the Railroad
made dividends they were paid to its stockholders of
record.
In August. 1907, differences arose between the parties
and under the provisions of the contract the Bryant Co.
demanded an arbitration of several matters in issue-among others submitting to the Board the following
proposition:
"Fourth.. That the Fourche River Lumber Company
through the Fourche River Valley & Indian Territory
Railroad Company shall secure to the Bryant Lumber
Company from the Fourche River Valley & Indian Territory Railroad Company, the same freight concessions as

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

are now enjoyed by the Fourche River Lumber. Company,
through its interest and the interest of its owners in the
Fourche River Valley & Indian Territory Railroad Company."
The arbitrators found in favor of the Bryant Company
and the terms of the award not having been complied with,
the Bryant Company brought suit against the Fourche
Lumber Company.
It appears that under the blanket rate, then of force,
the same rate of freight was charged from any point in
Arkansas to St. Louis, -toMemphis or to Oklahoma points
Out, of this through rate the Rock Island allowed 2, 3 and
312 cents to the Fourche R. R. on all lumber originating
on such road and shipped over the Rock Island to St.
Louis, Memphis or Oklahoma. This division of through
rate between the two roads on interstate shipments was
noted on the tariffs filed with the Interstate Commerce
Comniission.
On the trial, the president of the Bryant Co. testified
that it had shipped 13,25.1' 7 59 pounds of lumber in interstate shipments, and on it the Bryant Co.'claimed 2 cents
per 100.
Being asked what wwa,1, Ile basis of the claim he said:
"They are getting it. o. Who is getting it? A. The
Fourche River Vy. & 1ndidan River R. R., which are the
same people as the Fourl, - River Lumber Co. Q. They
are two separate and distinct corporations? A. Yes." In
reference to the claim fko.s, failing to lay the tracks and.
switches as agreed he was ! sked: "Did the Fourche R. R.
furnish you with a profiflo A. I don't know that it was
the Railroad Co., it was the lumber company I think.
Q. Who did you get the profile from?-The Lumber Co. or
the Railroad Co.? A. I don't know. To me they are all
,the same. Q. I understand that; it js to your advantage
to have them all the sain., but as a matter of fact from
which institution did you get the profile? A. I could look

FOURCHE R. B. CO, v. 'BRYANT LUMBER CO.
230 U. S.

321

Opinion of the Court.

-t the papers and see which 6i1 wrote the letter, but it is
ie samie people all the time."
The defendant exeepted to the refi'USll of the court to
instruct the jury that "a payment to the plaintiff of the
differentials provided in the award of the arbitrators would
be the granting to the Bryant Co. of a rebate forbidden
by law, enabling the Bryant Co. to transport its goods at
less than the tariff rate and you will find for the defendant
on that issue." Instead of giving the charge requested the
court instructed the jury that "under the contract, and
findings of the arbitrators, the Fourche Lumber Co. was
required to pay the Bryant Co. the same differentials that
the Fourche R. R. received on interstate shipments of the
Fourche Lumber Co. If you find from the testimony that
the Fourche R. R. has received certain differentials from
the Rock Island on interstate shipments and that the
Fourche Lumber Co. has not paid to the Bryant Lumber
Co. the same differentials on lumber that the Bryant Co.
has shipped to the same territory, then you are instructed
that the defendant (Fourche Co.) is indebted to the Bryant
Co. the amount of any such differentials which it has not
paid."
A judgment on the verdict rendered in accordance with
this charge having been affirmed, the Fourche Lumber
Company brought the case here, insisting that the charge
and verdict were in violation of the Interstate Commerce
Act, and, in effect, amo.nted to the giving of a rebate to
the Bryant Lumber Company. The latter replies that
the suit is against the Fourche Lumber Co. and that there
is no law preventing one company from paying the whole
or any part of the freight due by another. That may be
true but not where that other party is sued as being in
effect a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce.
The arbitration was demanded and the award made on
the theory that, inasmuch as the contract provided that
there should be no discrimination,; he Bryant Company
VOL. ccxxx---21

OCTOBE R TERM,, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

was entitled to receive from the Fourche Lumber Company "the same freight concessions as are now enjoyed by
the Fourche Lumber Company through its interest and
the interest of its owners in the Fourche Railroad." This
suit is based upon the assumption that the two companies
are identical in fact, though different in name.
Thus treating it, the 'case is as though the Bryant
Lumber Company had sued the Fourche Lumber Company, doing business as an interstate carrier, for so much
of the through rate as had been paid to it on the division
by the Rock Island for hauling' the Bryant Company's
shipments of lumber. - To state the proposition is to manifest its illegality, and to show that thereby the Bryant
Company would get a reduction on the through rate on
all of its lumber originating on the Fourche line.
The Fourche Railroad was not only incorporated as a
common carrier but is treated as such by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and, under the filed tariffs of the
Rock Island road, receives a part of the through rate on all
lumber originating upon the line and shipped in interstate
commerce. The status of this road is discussed in Tap Line
Cases, 23 I. C. C. 277, and its right to a division of the
freight recognized notwithstanding the fact that the stockholders are the same as those who own the shares of the
Fourche Lumber Company. But it receives this part of
the through rate, not as a concession, but for services
actually rendered by it as a common carrier in hauling
freight for part of the distance between the point of origin
and the point of destination. In any other view it would
have been unlawful for the Rock Island to pay, and, if so,
no, agreement to divide such unlawful receipts would be
enforced by the courts. On the other hand, if the Fourche
Railroad was lawfully paid for such services in hauling
the lumber it would be illegal, directly or through a subsidiary, to give to the shipper a part of such joint rate
under any pretext whatever. Carriers, whether saw-mill

FOURCHE It. R. CO. v. BRYANT LUMBER CO.
230 U. S.

323

Opinion of the Court.

companies or railroads or both combined, cannot purchase
land by rebating to the grantor a part of the freight rate
on interstate shipments over the road built on the right
of way, even though the amount of such rebate was much
less than the value of the land thus acquired. Cf. Louisville & Nashville Ry. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467; United
States v. Lehigh Valley Railroad, 220 U. S. 257; United
States v. Union Stock Yards, 226 U. S. 287, 308.
The Commerce Act prohibits the payment of rebates,
and its command cannot be evaded by calling them differentials or concessions, nor by taking the money from
the Railroad itself or fromn a company that is proved to
be the same as the Railroad. Otherwise nothing would be
easier than for lumber companies to charter a railroad,
collect freight as a railroad, but pay it out as a lumber
company to shippers.
The suit in the present case proceeds on the theory that
the Fourche Lumber Company and the Fourche Railroad
are the same and that therefore the division of the through
rate allowed to the Railroad was in fact received and enjoyed by the Lumhber Company. And yet, notwithstanding that fact, it is claimed that if the Fourche Lumber Company should, under the contract, pay a part of
that freight to the Bryant Company it would do so as a
saw-mill and not as a carrier. The law will not permit
such a chameleon-like change. The Fourche Lumber
Company and the Fourche Railroad are either the same
or different. If they are the same it cannot refund a part
of the rate to the Bryant Company. If they are different
the Fourche Lumber Company was not bound by the
terms of the contract to make the payment now demanded. The court below found that they were the same
and not different, and it results that its judgment must be
Reversed.

