OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

230 U. S.

OMAHA & COUNCIL BLUFFS STREET RAILWAY
COMPANY v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.

No. 458.

Argued February 19, 20, 1912.--Decided June 9, 1913.

The meaning of the Act to Regulate Commerce and whether it applies
to street railways carrying passengers overa state line cannot be determined from statements made in Congress (luring the debates on
the bill; the act must be interpreted by its own terms as looked at
in the whole.
In terms the Act applies to all carriers engaged in the transportation
of passengers or property by railroad, and the scope of the act depends on the definition of the word "railroad" as used in 1887 when
the act was originally passed.
Street railways for passengers only, as they existed in 1887, were not
within the contemplation of Congress in passing the Act to Regulate
Commerce, such railroads are not subject to its provisions or under
the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission even
though they carry passengers across the state line.
Quwre to what extent since the passage of the act of June 18, 1910,
interstate railways doing passenger, freight and express business are
now under the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and if so, to what extent.
191 Fed. Rep. 40, reversed, and 179 Fed. Rep. 243, affirmed.

TiE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission over certain classes of street
railway systems, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Lee Webster, with whom Mr. FredericD. McKenney was on the brief, for appellants:
The original and amendatory statute regulating commerce at the time said order was made, did not include
street railway companies. The term "railroad" in said act
applies only to commercial railroads as distinct from
street railway companies,

OMAHA STREET RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
230 U. S.

325

Argument for Appellants.

See express statement to that. effect by Senator Cullom,
chairman of the committee having the bill in hand.
Cong. Rec., Vol. 17, Pt. IV, p. 3472; Wilson v. Rock Creek
Railway Co., 7 I. C. C. Rep. 83.
The word "railroad" as used in the constitutions and
statutes of the various States does not include street
railway companies, and street railway corporations are
not governed by laws relating to railroads. This distinction between the two kinds of railroads was well known
at the time of the passage of the act to regulate commerce.
'In the following cases the word "railroad" as used in
the constitutions and statutes of the several States does not
include a street railway. Street railways are not included
-infellow servant acts, in railway commission acts, in
judgment lien acts, and other laws enacted to govern and
control railroads, unless specifically mentioied therein.
Street Ry. Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 106 Iowa, 467; Funk v. St.
Paul Ry. Co., 61 Minnesota, 435; Lincoln Traction Co. v.
Webb, 73 Nebraska, 136; Dailyv. Milwaukee & E. R.L. Co.,
119 Wisconsini 398; Lincoln Street R. R. Co. v. McClellan,
54 Nebraska, 672; Omaha Street R. Co. v. Boesen, 74
Nebraska, 765; Railroad Co. v. Railroad Commissioner,
73 Kansas, 168; State v. Cain, 69 Kansas, 186; Manhattan
Trust Co, v. Sioux City Cable Ry. Co., 68 Fed. Rep, 82;
Bridge Co. v. Iron Co., 59 Ohio St. 179; Front Street Cable
Ry. Co. v. Johnson, 2 Washington, 112; Louisville &c. Ry.
Co. v. Louisville City Ry. Co., 2 Duvall (Kentucky), 175;
In re New York District Ry. Co., 107 N. Y. 42; Railroad
Commissioners v. Market Street R. R. Co., 132 California,
677; Thompson-Houston Co. V. Simon, 20 Oregon, 60;
Sams v. St. Louis Ry. Co., 174 Missouri, 53; State v. Duluth
Gas Co., 76 Minnesota, 96; Gyger v. West Phila. Ry, Co.,
136 Pa. St. 16; Riley v. Galveston City R. R. Co., 35 S.W:
Uep. 826; State v. Lincoln Traction Co., Nebraska, Jan. 3,
1912; Sears v. Railway Co., 65 Iowa, 742; Freiday v. Sioux

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

230 U. S.

City Transit Co., 92 Iowa, 191; Massachusetts Trust Co. v.
Hamilton,Rep. 588.
Under the constitution and laws of Nebraska, appellant
is a street railway and is not a street railroad.
There is a well defined and marked distinction between
railroad corporations and street railway corporations under the constitution and laws of the State of Nebraska.
Lincoln Street Railway v. McClellan, 54 Nebraska, 672;
Omaha Street Ry. Co. v. Boesen, 74 Nebraska, 764; Lincoln
Traction Co. v. Webb, 73 Nebraska, 136; Tyrrell v. Lincoln
Traction Co., January 3, 1912.
Appellant is incorporated as a street railway company
under the laws of the State of Iowa which also recognize
the well defined distinction between street railways and
railroads. Sears v. Railway Co., 65 Iowa, 742; Freiday v.
The Siou't City Transit Co., 92 Iowa, 191; City R. R. Co. v.
Cedar Rapids, 106 Iowa, 476.
The dual functions of a commercial railroad and a
street railway cannot be combined in the same corpora-.
tion. Gillette v. Aurora Ry. Co., 228 Illinois, 261; Chicago
& Southern Traction Co. v. Flaherty, 222 Illinois, 67;
'Bradley Mfg. Co. v. Traction Co., 229 Illinois, 170, 176.
The Act to Regulate Commerce has been under discussion, and various amendments have been made thereto
since its first enactment in 1887. If Congress intended
to extend said act to include street railways why has not
such amendment been made when other amendments
were being made to the act?
In deciding whether the Act to Regulate Commerce
applies to street railways it is proper to consider' the
inconveniences that would result to the public by compelling interchange of freight and cars and passengers
between commercial railroads and street railway companies, as well as the fact stated supra that there exists
no necessity, nor public dema d for the regulation of
street railway companies by the Interstate Commerce

OMAHA STREET RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.

327

230 U. S. Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Commission. Michigan Ry. Co. v. Hammond Electric Ry.
Co., 83 N. E. Rep. 650; Massillon Bridge Co. v. Cambria
Iron Co., 59 Ohio St. 179.
The order of the Commission is void because it was
beyond the scope of the complaint, and for the further
reason that the effect of the order is to require appellant
to receive and carry in its cars to all points within the city
of Omaha, and without compensation, persons who have
paid a fare of ten cents to ride on the bridge line from
Council Bluffs, Iowa, to the eastern boundary of the city of
Omaha, and is therefore a direct interference with what is
intrastate business.
Mr. Charles W. Needham for the Interstate Commerce
Commission:
The power of Congress to regulate commerce is not
confined to any particular agency or instrumentality.
Gibbon v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Employers' Liability Case, 207 U. S.
493; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S.597.
It embraces all the instruments by which such commerce may be conducted. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275; citing Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691;
Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S.196; Hooper
v. California, 155 U. S. 648, 653; United States v. E. C.'
Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1.
Commerce as used in the commerce clause of Constitution has reference to transportation, that is, the movement
of either property or persons. Chicago R. R. Co. v. Fuller,
17 Wall. 560.
Congress exercises its regulating power by direct and
appropriate legislation and in this case through the
Interstate Commerce Commission acting under the
powers granted by the Act to Regulate Commerce. See
the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, and the
acts supplementary thereto, see also Texas R. Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the Intcrstate Cornwire (,tnistiion

230 If. S.

Int. Comm. Comm., 162 U S. 197; Cincinnati R. Co. v.
Int. Comm. Comm., 162 U. S. 184; Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co. v.
United States, 215 U. S. 481 Tnt. Comm. Comm. v, Chi., R. I
& Pac. Ry., 218 U. S. 88; Southern Pacific Co. v. nt,
Comm. Comm., 219 U. S. 433; Southern Pacific Terminal
Co. v Int. Comm. Comm., 219U, S. 498; Int. Comm. Comm.
v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 220 U. S 235.
The Act to Regulate Commerce as amended defines the
carriers subject to the act.
Congress and the Interstate Commerce Commission
have jurisdiction over a common carrier operating cars
by electricity, and the fact that it is an O]ectric striet
railway does not exempt it from such regulating power.
As to legislative construction see Willson v. Rock Creek
R Co., 7 I. C. C. 83, 88.
See also Chi. & Mil. Electric R. R. v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co.,
13 I. C. C. 20; Beall v. Washington & Mt. Vernon Ry.,
20 I. C. C. 406; Cincinnati Traction Co. v. B. & 0. S. W.
R, R. Co., 20 1. C. C. 486.
If the Act to Regulate Commerce did not include "street
electric passenger railways" there was no reason for
excepting this class of railways ffrom the additional power
conferred upon the Commission to establish through routes
and joint rates. As to judicial construction, see Grinsfelder v. Spokane Street R. Co., 53 Pac. Rep, 719; Densmore v. Racine M. R. Co., 12 Wisconsin, 649; McCleary v,
Babcock, 82 N. E. Rep. 453, 456; Riggs v. San Francois
County Ry. Co., 96 S. W. Rep. 707, 708; Heastonville R. R.
Co. v. Philadelphia,89 Pa. St. 210; Gyger V, Philadelphia
City Passenger R. Co., 136 Pa. St., 96; Cheaton v. McCor-

mick, 178 Pa. St. 186; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Rapid
Transit Co., 192 Pa. St. 596; Penna.R. R Co. v. Pittsburq,
104 Pa. St. 552; Rafferty v. Central Traction, 147 Pa. St.

579; Reeves v. Philadelphia Tr. Co., 152 Pa. St 153;. Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Allentown, 192 Pa. St. 596; Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 497.

OMAHA STREET RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
230 U. S.

329

Arguiimut for the hnterstato Commcrce Commission.

The comprehensive language of" the statute includes
trolley lines and every common carrier engaged in interstate traffic by railroad.
Appellants are not ordinary'street car companies; they
are bridge and railway companies. The bridge company
was not organized as a "street" railway company) but as
a "railway and bridge company," and its lessee, as operating company, is exercising these functions.
. Traffic over a bridgespanning navigable waters separating two States is interstate commerce. Covington &
CincinnatiBridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204.
The railroad; is an interurban road connecting two
cities located respectively in two States, and such transportation and facilities constitute interstate commerce.
Gibbon v. Ogden, supra;Gloucester PerryCo. v.Pennsylvania,
114,U. S. 196; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; C., B. &
Q. R. Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155; Wabash, St. L. & P. R. Co.
v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.
Where several instrumentalities of commerce have been
merged in one ownership by purchase or lease and are
operated by one company, such instrumentalities, in so
far as they are used for interstate commerce, are voluntarily brought under the jurisdiction of Congress and the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The fact that one or
more of such instrumentalities are used in a greater degree
for intrastate business than for interstate business does
not lessen the regulating power of the Interstate Commerce Commission over the interstate traffic, and the
Commission may establish a through route and a joint
through rate for interstate traffic over all of said instrumentalities. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Int. Comm.
Comm., supra.
The fact that these corporations are organized under
state laws, general or special, as commercial or as street
railways does not change the character of the commerce
nor exempt the companies actually doing the interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

230 U. S.

business from Federal regulation as to the interstate
traffic.
The fact that this company does not carry freight, but
confines its business to the carrying of passengers, does not
exempt it from Federal control.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Thurlow M. Gordon, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the UnitedStates:
The Act to Regulate Commerce covers, among other
things, "any common carrier or carriers engaged in the
transportation of passengers or property wholly by railroad." Even assuming for the purpose of argument that
this generic language does not include merely municipal
trolley railroads, it still includes the species of railroad
known as "interurban" railroads.
The Interstate Commerce Commission reported as a
fact, and upon facts sufficient to justify their conclusion,
that the appellants were an "interurban" railroad, as
distinguished from a local street railroad,
'It is of no importance that this species of railroad did
not exist at the time the act was originally passed, because it falls within the generic term, and also within the
policy. Weems v. United States, 217 U. S. 349, p. 373;
De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, p. 197; Bishop v. North,
11 Mees. & W. 418.
Nothing in the language or context excludes this species
of railroad from the general language. The word "railroad" does not exclude it, and indeed "interurban railroads" are considered to be "railroads" as distinguished
from "street railways" by the laws not only of Iowa,
Code, ยง 2033 a and b; Cedar Rapids &c. M. C. Ry. Co. v.
Cummins, 125 Iowa, 430, and of Nebraska (Cobbey's Ann.
Stat. of Nebraska, 1909, ยง 10517); but by numerous other
authorities. City of Philadelphiav. Philadelphia Traction
Co., 55 At]. Rep. 762 (Penn.); Cincinnati&c. ElectricR. R.

OMAHA STREET RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
231D U. S.

331

Argument for the United States.

Co. v. Lohe,.68 Oh. St. 101; Malott v. C. & E. St. L. Electric
R. Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 313; Riggs v. St. FrancoisCo. Ry. Co.,
120 Mo. Supp. 335; Montgomery St. Ry. Co. v. Lewis, 148
Alabama, 134; Katzenberger v. Lawo, 90 Tennessee, 238;
Hestonville &c. R. R. v. Philadelphia,89 Pa. St. 210; In re
Washington Street Ry. Co., 115 N. Y. 442; Central National
Bank v. Worcester H. R. Co., 13 Allen, 105; Egan v. Cheshire
St. Ry. Co., 78 Connecticut, 291; Savannah &c. R. Co.
v. Williams, 117 Georgia, 414; Rafferty v. Central Traction
Co., 147 Pa. St. 579; Bloxham v. Consumers' &c. Co., 36
Florida, 519; City of Chicago v. Evans, 24 Illinois, 52, 55;
Citizens' R. Co. v. Pittsburg, 104 Pa. St. 522; Clinton v.,
Iowa, 37 Iowa, 61; Lieberman v. R. ,R., 141 Illinois, 140;
Baldwin, Am. Railroad Law, 9; Birmingham R. Co. V.
Jacobs, 92 Alabama, 187; Diebold v. Ky. Traction Co., 24
Ky. L. R. 1275; Elliott on Railroads (2d ed., Ch. XLIV).
The essential thing, however, is not the classification
of the operating company under the corporation laws of
the State, but the nature of the operation within the
intent of the Interstate Commerce Act. Liverpool Ins. Co.
v. Massachusetts, 10 Wall. 566.
The mere use of electric power rather than steam does
not take a railroad out of the sphere of the Interstate
Commerce Law. Malott v. C. & E. St. & Electric Ry. Co.,
108 Fed. Rep. 313; Diebold v. Ky. Traction Co., 25 Ky.
L. Rep. 1275 (77 S. W. Rep. 674); Riggs v. St. FrancoisCo.
Ry., 120 Mo. App. 335; Stillwater & St. R. Co. v. Boston
&c. R. Co., 171 N. Y. 589.
Nor does the fact that it carries no freight. Sections
1, 6, 15, 20 and 22 of the Statute.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has constantly
assumed jurisdiction over this class of railroads. Willson
v. Rock Creek Ry., 7 1. C. C. 83 (decided in 1897); C. & M.
Electric R. R. Co. v. I. C. R. R: Co., 13 1. C. C. 20; Beall
v. W. A. & Mt. V. Ry., 20 1. C. C. 406;, C. & C. Traction
Co. v. B. & 0. S. W. R. R. Co., 20 1. C. C. 486.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
()pirio, of 111 ( ou

This assumpt ion of

.

230 tJ. S.

has
auridi(,tioU
generally been ac-

quiesced in, there being now in the public records of the
Commission between 3,000 and 4,000 electric-railway

tariffs.
This assumption of jurisdiction was confirmed by Congress by the amendment in 1910 of ยง 15, withdrawing
from the Commission the power to establish a through
ro'te between "street electric passenger railways not
engaged in transporting freight in addition to their passenger and express business and railroads of a different
character."
Even if prior to this amendment the Commission did
not have the power, it was granted by the amendment
and thereby the order was ratified. Hamilton v. Dillon,
21 Wall. 73, 88, 95; Mattingly v. Dist. of Col., 97 U. S.
687, 690; Nat. Bank v. Shoemaker, 97 U. S. 692; United
States v. Heinszen, 206 U. S.370.
At least the amendment validated the order from the
time it went into effect, which was June 10, 1910. B. & 0.
R. R. Co. v. I.C. C., 221 U. S.612.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

The Omaha & Council Bluffs Railway & Bridge Company was chartered as a Street Railroad Company under
the laws of Iowa. It owned street car lines in Council
Bluffs and, in 1887, was authorized by Congress to
construct a bridge across the Missouri River and to operate thereon "steam, cable and street cars." (March 3,
1887, 24 Stat. 501, c. 356.) The Omaha & Council Bluffs
Railway, chartered as a Street Railroad under the laws
of Nebraska, owned the street car lines in Omaha and its
suburbs, South Omaha, Benson, Dundee and Florence.
This street railroad had no right of eminent domain and
was not authorized to haul freight, being limited by its
charter to carrying passengers only. By lease it acquired

OMAHA STREET RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
230 U. S.

333

Opinion of the Court.

the bridge and car lines jn Council Bluffs which thereafter
it operated as part of its system. Complaint having been
made that certain interstate fares were unreasonable, a
hearing was had before the Commerce, Commission, which,
on November 27, 1909 (17 I. C. C. 239),ordered a reduction in the rate between Council Bluffs, Iowa, and points
beyond the Loop, in Omaha, Nebraska. The two companies, lessor and lessee, thereupon filed a bill in the
United States Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska
to enjoin the, order. The case was heard before three
Circuit Judges, wIo,) 79 Fed. Rep. 243) granted a tempo-

rary injunction.
The case was transferred to the Commerce Court, which,
on October 5, 1911, dismissed the bill, 191 Fed. Rep.
40.
On the argument of the appeal in this court, the sole
question discussed was whether the provisions of the
Commerce Act as to railroads applied to street railroads,
the appellant relying, among other things, on the fact that
during the discussion in the Senate the author of the bill
and Chairman of the Senate Committee to which it had
been referred, said (17 Cong. Rec. Pt. IV, p. 3472) "that
the Bill is not intended to affect the stage coach, the
street railway, the telegraph lines, the canal boat, or the
vessel employed in the inland or coasting trade, even
though they may be engaged in interstate commerce,
because it is not deemed necessary or practicable to cover
such a multitude of subjects." After quoting ยง 1 and
this statemeif. and construing it in the light of the broad
scope of the act, the Coni-merce Court held that the meaning of the statute could not be determined from statements
used in debate. We concur in that view. The act must
ISEc. L. Tha, the provisions of this acL shall apply to any corporation or any person or persons engaged in the transportation of oil or
other Commodity, (xcept. water and e'cptiatural or arificial gas, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

be interpreted by its own terms, and we must look to it

as a whole, in order to determine whether it applies to
Street Railroads, carrying passengers between cities divided by a state line.
The statute in terms applies to carriers engaged in the
transportation of passengers or property by railroad.
But, in 1887, that word had no fixed and accurate
meaning, for there was then, as now, a conflict in the
means of pipe lines, or partly by pipe lines and partly by railroad, or
partly by pipe -lines and partly by water, who shall be considered and
held to be common carriers within the meaning and purpose-of this act,
and to any common carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation of
passengers or property wholly by railroad (or partly by railroad and
partly by water when both are used under a common control, management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment) from one
State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia to
any other State or Territory or from one place in a Territory to another place in the same Territory, or from any place in the United,
States to an adjacent foreign country, or from any place in the United
States through a foreign country to any' other place in the United States,
and also to the transportation in like manner of property shipped from
any place in the United States to a foreign country and carried from
such place to a port of transshipment or shipped from a foreign country
to any place in the United States and carried to such place from a port
of entry either in the United States or an adjacent foreign country.
Provided, however, That the provisions of this act shall not apply to
the transportation of passengers or property, or to the receiving, delivering, storage, or handling of the property wholly within one State
and not shipped to or from a foreign country from or to any State or
Territory as aforesaid.
The term "common carrier," as used in this act, shall include express
companies and sleeping car companies. The term "railroad," as used
in this act, shall include all bridges and ferries used or operated in connection with any railroad, and also all the road in use by any corporation operating a railroad, whether owned or operated under a contract,
agreement, or lease, and shall also include all switches, spurs, tracks,
and terminal facilities or every kind used or necessary in the transportation of the persons or property designated herein, an(l also all freight
depots, yards, and grounds used or necessary in the tranaportation or
delivery of any of said property.* (24 Stat. 379.)

OMAHA STREET RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
230 U.S.

335

Opinion of the Court.

decisions of the state courts as to whether street railroads were embraced v'vithin the provisions of a statute
giving rights or imposing burdens on railroads. The
appellants cite decisions from twelve States holding
that in a statute the word "railroad" does not mean
"street railroad." The defense cite decisions to the contrary from an equal number of States. The present
record discloses a similar disagreement in Federal tribunals. For not only did the Commerce Court and the
Circuit Court differ, but it appears that the members
of the Commission were divided on the subject when
this case was decided and also when the question was
first raised in Willson v. Rock Creek Ry. Co., 7 I. C.
C. 83.
This conflict is not so great as at first blush would appear. For all recognize that while there is similarity between railroads and street railroads, there is also a difference. Some courts, emphasizing the similarity, hold that
in statutes the word "Railroad" includes Street Railroad,
unless the contrary is required by the context. Others,
emphasizing the dissimilarity, hold that "Railroad" does
not include Street Railroad unless required by the context,
since,'as tersely put by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky,
"a street railroad, in a technical and popular sense, is
as
different from an ordinary railroad as a street is from a
road." Louisville & PortlandR. R. Co. v. Louisville City
Ry. Co., 2 Duvall, 175.
But all the decisions hold that the meaning of the word
is to be determined by construing the statute as a whole.
If the scope of the act is such as to show that both classes
of companies were within the legislative contemplation,
then the word "Railroad" will include Street Railroad.
On tile other hand, if the act was aimed at Railroads
proper, then Street Railroads are excluded from the provisions of the statute. Applying this tiniversally accepted
rule of construing this word, it is to be noted that ordinarv

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

railroads are constructed on the companies' own property.
The tracks extend from town to town and are usually
connected with other railroads, which themselves are
further connected with others, so that freight may be
shipped, without breaking bulk, across the continent.
Such railroads are channels of interstate commerce.
Street Railroads, on the other hand, are local, are laid

in streets as aids to street traffic, an(-[ for the use of a
single community, even though that community be
divided by state lines, or under different municipal control. When These street railroads carry passengers across
a state line they are, of course, engaged in interstate
commerce, but not the commerce which Congress had in
mind when legislating in 1887. Street railroads transport
passengers from street to street, from ward to ward, from
city to suburbs, but the commerce to which Congress
referred was that carried on by railroads engaged in hauling passengers or freight "between States,", "between
States and Territories," "between the United States and
foreign countries." The act referred to Railroads which
were required to post their schedules-not at street corners where passengers board street cars, but in "every
depot, station or office where passengers or freight are received for transportation." The railroads referred to in
the act were not those having separate, distinct and local

street lines, but those of whom it was required that they
should make joint rates and reasonable facilities for interchange of traffic with connecting lines, so that freight
might be easily and expeditiously moved in interstate
commerce.
Every provision of the statute is applicable to railroads.
Only a few of its requirements are applicable to street
railroads which did not do the business Congress had in
contemplation and had not engaged in the pooling, rebating and discrimination which the statute was intended
to prohibit. This was recognized in Willson v. Rock

OMAtA STREET RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
230 U. S.

337

Opinion of the Court.

Creek Ry.Co., 7 . C. C. 83, where, although it was held
that the statute applied to a street railroad between
Washington, D. C., and a point in Maryland, the Commission nevertheless said (7 1. C. C. 88): "It may be
conceded that this class of railroads was not specifically
within the contemplation of the framers of that law,
for the evils which it was intended to remedy would, in
the-nature of the case, but rarely arise in the management
of such roads in their dealing with the public."
Street railroads not being guilty of the mischief sought
to be corrected, the remedial provisions of the statute not
being applicable to them, commands upon every railroad
'subject to the act" being such that they could not be
obeyed by street railroads because of the nature of their
business and character and location of their tracks, it is
evident that the case is within that large line of authorities which hold that under such a statute the word
"railroad" cannot be construed to include street railroad.
But it is said that since 1887, when the act was passed,
a new type of interurban railroad has been developed
which, with electricity as a motive power, uses larger

cars and runs through tIhe country from t'own to town,
enabling the carrier to haul passengers, freight, express

and the ]hail for'long distances at high speed.

We are

not dealing with such a case, but with a company chartered
as a street railrowl, doing a street railroad business and
hauling no freight. The case was heard on demurrer,
with the opinion of the Commission treated as a part of the
record. It indicates that at some points the line is on
private property, but where this is and to how great an
extent does not appear. Indeed, the record does not show
that electricity was used as a motive power, though, in the
light of modern methods, fhalt may possibly be assumed.
But it affirmatively appears that the company was
chartered as a street railroad, and hauls no freight and
isdoing only a business al)propriate to a street railroad.
Vo01. CcXXX. -22

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

So that whatever the motive power or the size or speed
of the cars is immaterial. In any event, there were "street
cars" referred to in the act of Congress authorizing the
construction of the Bridge from Council Bluffs to Omaha
(24 Stat. 501). The company used such cars and did a
street passenger business only. It laid its tracks in
crowded thoroughfares of those cities and their suburbs
and it is manifest that Congress did not intend that these
tracks should be connected with Railroads for hauling
freight cars and long trains through and along the streets
of Omaha and Council Bluffs.
It is contended, however, that the amendment of June 18,
1910, 36 Stat. 539, 553, c. 309, shows that Congress considered that street railroads were under the jurisdiction of
the Commission inasmuch as it then provided that "the
Commission shall not establish any through route, classification or rate between street electric passenger railways not engaged in . . . transporting freight
and railroads of a different character." It is contended
on the other hand that in that statute Congress distinctly
recognized that a street electric road was "a different
character of railroad," and apprehending that the broad
language of the amendment of 1910 might be construed
to take in street railroads, this provision was inserted
out of abundant caution to prevent that result, as in the
case of establishing routes wholly by water, which certainly were not within the terms of the original Act.
This section of the act of 1910, however, having been
passed after the order was made by the Commission,
Nov. 27, 1909, is not before us for construction and, manifestly, cannot be given a retrospective operation, though
the Government insists that it should be given a prospective operation and in its brief contends that "even
if the Commission's order was without lawful authority
at the time it was made (Nov. 27, 1909) the amendment
of 1910 either ratified it altogether, or, at least, validated

OMAHA i'FREET 1Y. v. INT. COM. COMM.
2;$0 U. S.

339

Opinion of the Court.

it for the future," and, therefore, it was contended "that
the judgment should be affirmed, or if not affirmed as
rendered, should be modified to set aside the order only
in its operation prior to June 18, 1910," on which day the
amendment as to electric street passenger cars became
effective. Mattingly v. District of Columbia, 97 U. S.
687; Lowrey v. Hawaii, 206 U. S. 206; B. & 0. R. R. v.
I. C. C., 221 U. S. 612, are cited to show that Congress
might ratify what had not been originally commanded.
The first two decisions relate to transactions of a nature
entirely different from that here involved; and, in the Baltimore & Ohio Case, which was more like this on its facts, the
parties pending the suit stipulated that the order should
apply only to the future, and it was said that the "question
of the authority of the Commission at the time the order
was made has become a moot one" (621). There was no
such stipulation here, and there being nothing to show that
Congress attempted an express ratification, and it being
open whether the amendment was intended to confer a.
jurisdiction not previously given, the motion of the Government to make the order of November 27, 1909, effective from June 18, 1910, cannot prevail.
The decree of the Commerce Court is reversed and that
of the three Circuit Judges made permanent.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITvNMy did not hear the argument and
took no part in the decision of this Case.

