]FEBRUARY TERI 116.
from Lningg Gogel & Co. which it is said came to their
haiids.-

CARGO 01

sHm
IIAZAJID

The capture it is alleged was made within the limits
v.
andjurisdiction of Spain. Of this there- is no sufficient cAurnwz
evidence, which renders it unnecessary to say what influ- &oTnRts.
ence that fact, if established, might have on thq ultimate
decision of the Court. The suppression of the paper in
question is also very imperfectly made out; and if it had
been brought into Court and formed part of the evidence
in: the cause, it could not possibl& do the Appellant afly
good; ,for a paper ierely signed by Luning, Gogel &
Co. and converted into a letter of instructions by Mr.
Worrall, in Liverpool, td suit his own purposes, as must
have been the case here, could Eave but liftle effect ill removing any one of the. niumerous doubts which the citcumstances of this case are so well ca1culated to excite.
A motion has also been made for an order ror further
proof. If the Court entertained any difficulty as to the
reality (if this transaction, or believeettliat Messrs. Luning, Gogel & Co. could prove that they were, in fact;
the owners of this property, perhaps itmight listen to
the application late as it is; but believing, as it does,
that the evidence, as it now stands, is not susceptible of
any satisfactory explanation, and that the captors havL
made out a clear title to the whole cargo shipped by Mr.,
Woyral, it cannot, in justice to them, make any such
order.
,The sent~nce of the Circuit Court is, therefore, unanimously affirmed with costs.

SHIP SOCIETE, MAP.TiasoN, BtAsT.U.

1815.

March
2bseul....TonD,

OJ.

J.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court if a

aneal

for othe ilistrict of Georgia, affirming the decrde of the vetl te cap.
district Court which allowed freight pro rata itineris, to turd an. hcr
heis"" 'Waythe Swedish ship Societe, captured on her outward voy-'Zst
fm Ens"VOL. Ix.27

SUPREME COURT t. S.
1im age from England to Amelia Island, with a British ear
go on board, which was condemned as prize of war.

S0cirnT,

MARTINsoN.
MASTER.

--.-

By the charter-party, the. outward cargo to Amelia
l'land. was to be carried freightfree, and the homeward

cargo w-s to pay at the rate of three pence linfrp,.nny
cotton, and in the same proportion for

to Amelanu
ear- a pound
• "I. for
Ela Island
-ying a hostile other goods.
cargo, wlich is

co,,demied, &

if by the char-

ter-party

the

outwd cargo

FINKNEY

S- JowEs,

for

the ship o-wnier,

Contended, that the freight ought to have been given
to be ascertain.
below.

is to be carried
free of freiht, according to the charter-party, and not
but the hmiei- eti by a~sesqors as ordered in the Court
wvard cargo is
topqV ai a cer-

tais ri e to ise SWANN, stated that he wished to interpose a claim to
of the ship Societe. in behalf of the officers and
asc, rtuioed by tle %trgo
"I
the nurc of
the ca.o, vet Ire s of the Uniti-d tates' brig Rattlesnake and Enterth.. Cotisi ;Vil prize as having been concerned in her captilre ; aid was
decree freight

pro rata dne- not certain whether thi'i Court would now receive the
Sof -lie out- claim, or whether it should be presented to the Court

ward cargo, to below.
•be assessed. p'-on the priniTan COuRT,
plesof a (lUairerit.
turn
cult Court.
TW3a- Cort
v~ill not al ow

.~arch 6th. .tbsent....ToDD, .

anew claim to
be interposed

bere, but wiJil

rend
111,3
cause to tbe

said that it must be laid before the Cir.

MARSHALL,

h..J. deliveved the opinion of the Court

C(jur!, 's follows
,muit
wher tit - any

he presented

William Little, a naturalized citizen of the United

States. entered intol a charter-party with Magnus Martinson', master 6f"the Swedish ship, called the Societe,
at London, on tbe 1t0th day of November, 18t3, %1hereby the said Martinson let, and the said Little took the
said ship to freight for the voyage and on t6o terms
mentioned in the charter-party.
It was agrred. among other things, that tile vessel
slonll take on hoard a cargo, prepared for her in tile
Thame-s, and dolivrr it at Amelia Island, freight free.
At Am-lia Islend slip, was to take on -board such return
cargo as might be tendered to her. If shie #ould not
be loaded there, she was to proceed to such port in the

FEBRUARY TERM1 i8m5.
United Statea as the agent of Little.should direct, and

Thl,

there receive her cargo. There were other provisional SoCIn.TE,
stipulations, and it was agreed that the freight on the MAnTINsoN,
return cargo should be a sum specified in the charterparty. which exceeded what would have been paid as .TASTL.n.
freight o the return cargo alone had it been totaliy
unconnected with the outward voyage.
On her voyage to Amelia Island, the Societe was
captured by an armed vessel of the United States, and
brought into tie district of Georgia, wherethe cargo was
libelled and condemned as enemy property.
A claim for freight was interposed by the master oi
the Societe. and the district judge appointed commissioners to ascertain the value of the freight on the voyage to Amelia Island, and decreed freight conformably
to their report.
The Claimant of the cargo and the master of the ship
both appealed to the Circuit Court, where the sentence
of the district judge was, in all things, affirmed. From

that sentence an appeal was prayed to this Court.

The cases already decided in this Court on the questions of domicil and trading with the enemy having
completely settled this case, so far as repected the claim
to the cargo, that part of the sentence is afirmed withodt opposition.
On the part of the master, it is contended, that his
right to freight ought to be measured by his charterparty, not by any e.timated value of the freight on ile
voyage to Amelia Island.
'Had the charter-party contained any stipulation for
freight to Amelia Island, that stipulation would unquestionably have governed the Court. B.ut the outward
cqrgo was to be delivered freight free. So far, then,
as the case is controlled by the express sipulations-of
the.charter-party, the vessel is entitled to the whole
freight dn. a return cargo never taken on board, or to
nothing.
The Court knows of' no case of capture where the

SUPREME COURT U. S:
THE
VCIETE,

neutral vessel has been allowed freight for a cargo not
taken with her. There is no lien on on. cargo for

31-Er N- freight which may accrue on another.

The Court can

perceive no principle on which a cargo to be deliverpd

SON,

MASTER; freigh, free can he burthened with the freight agCrec to
be paid on a cargo to be afterwirds taken oi board.
In this case, too, no sum in gross is to be paid for Creig lit,
but a sum dependin- on te quantity anti quality of the

return cargo. 'As between the captor and neutral ownei., the Court cannot consider this as one entire voyages
but as distinct outward and inward vJyages,
If the claim to freight on fie return voyage, not coinmeneed at the time of capture, cannot be stl,tained, the

Court perceiveos no other rule which could imve heen
adopted than that which the district Court did adopt,
Freight hais been allowed On the whole voyage to Amelia island as on a quantum meruit.
Thn captors not 'having appealed. no question can
arise on the propriety of having allowed the ship any
freight whatever. The Courtp however, will say that
it is satisfied with the allowance which is made,, and
which is certainly an equitable one.
The sentence is affirmed with costs.
The officers of the Rattlesnake and Enterprize, armed vessels of the United States, offered a-petition to this
Court to be permitted to claim for themselves and tlheir
crew a share of the prize in the case of the Societe ; alledging that tley are entitled equally with the officers
and crcw or the G-n-boat by whom the said (,argo was
liielled ; which pi-titirn was rejected, and the claim was
not'recrived ; it bring the opinion of this Court that the
claim of. the pntitioners must be made in the Circuit
Court, to which tihe cause is remanded.

1815.
Feb.

THE UNITED STATES v. GILES AND

OTHEns,.

-25d.

.Absent....ToDD, J.
THIS Was-a case certified from the Circuit Court for
beror the
d ab or s ofr- the district of New York, in which the opinions of the
Ifa nmarhal

