SUPREME COURT U. S.
ed, when the petitioner had not by replication denied
the answer of the Defendant, in which he states a salo
of the.said slaves in pursuance of an order of the said
. Orphan's Court, 'and without receiving any evidence
tiat the said slaves were not sold, 'or that they remain
still in possessina of the said Defendant, is erroneous,
and that the dec'ee of the Circuit Court, aflirmn"g the
same, is also erroneous; and that the said decree o affirmance ought to be reversed and ann' lled, and the
cause remanded to the said Circuit Court with directions to reverse the said decree of the said Orphan's
Court, and to remand the cause to the said Couet that
further proceedings my he had therein according to
law. All which is ordered and decreed accordingly.

GETTIINGS

v.
iauncir,
.-

Marsh

THE UNITED STATES
10th.

V/.

"BRYAN AND WOODCOCK.
(Garnishees of Hendrickson.)

.9b'sent ....T3DD,.
lhe .h Sec.
ERROR
(-n of the art Delawar
of the 3d of
.3areh, 17-7,

I,

to the Circuit Court for the district of

-iir.g
a priorlo pay ment

States out

This was an attachment of the effects of Hendrick_
son, a bankrupt, in the hands of his assignees, Bryan
of and Woodcock.

the. eFects of
their dt-hto. ,
did not apply

-Hendrickson was stirety foreGiorge Bush, late colto a debt due lector of the customs at Wilmington, in an ollicial bond
nofcilbn
gtn
befom e 1
Bush lied on the 2d of Fbt.uary, 1797,
efore, that dated in i791.
vct,
althdugh BY an adjustment of his accounts at' the treasury in
te lldalicc,
s adiust
'not iol, it appeared fhat the balance agamnst him was
cd at the rea. %3, 53 06.

sury nntil after
the act ww

I-AL

In the Court below it was agreed that the case should
depend on the question, -' Whether, under the 6th sec,tion of the act of congress of March the 5d, 1797. the
"United States are entitled to satisfaction- of their de.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i1.

375

"mand out of the effects of the bankrupt Hendrickson, U. STATES
10.
,in the hands of the garnishees, as .ssiguees of the
"cbankrupt, prior td the claims, or any part of them, of R:rYATT
"cother creditors of the said bankrupt being satisfied ?" & WODCOCK.

The judgment in the Court below was against the
United States, and they brought their writ of error.
WEiLs, for th1 Defedants iu error.

In respect to the priority supposed to be established
by this act, if it be considered as applying to this case, it
will be a priority set up, if not by an cx post facto
law," by a retrospective law.
Two questions here present themselves for consideration.
1. Was congress competent to enact such a retrospective law?
2. Has such a law been enacted-is the act of the 3d
of March, 1797, retrospective?

First enquiry. W s congress competent to enact
such a retrospective law?
It has never yet been contended that these prioriies
rest, for support, upon any ancient and royal ground
of prerogative. Our constitution is a government of
definite, delegated authority: and the powers nut .given,
belong to the peoplc., not only by -clear and unavoidable
inference, but by positive and express reservation. No
attempt has yet been made in any of the Courts'of te
United States, to set up this claim, upon the ground of,
prerogative. Congress have considered it as not resting upon that ground; o1 tfly would have deemed it
urrtecessary, to make statutary provisions upon the subje&r. It has been decided, that they have the power to
establish a fair priority, in behalf of the. government.
They have the power to impose and collect taxes; and
it is certainly their duty to provide for their faithful collection and payment into the punlic treasnry. A fair
priority has been considered, iV not abMolutely "necessary," at least, ",conducive" to this end; and the power

AUPREME' COURT'U. S.
w. STATEs

V..
ERYA?

to establish it, consequently given expressly, by th
clause in the' constitution, emphatically termed the
,sweeping
c
clause.Y'

& WOOD-

COCK.
-------

Had the constitution omitted this clause, still, it would
seem, for the fair and legitimate execution of the pow-

ers expressly delegated, that there would be, from necessity, conferred the right to exercise ary means, for that
purpose, that were ii Proper and pecessary." To give
body and substance to this abstract right; to bring this
latent power into light, and to demonstrate its existence,
as well as its proper form and proportion; to show it,
in the constitution, to the eye, what it is in perfect reason, it is declared that congress shall, have power " to
inake all laws," not that they, in their good pleasure,
with a discretion that acknowkdges neither guide' nor
restraint, not to make any, and every sort of law 'they
way chuse, in furtherance of iny special power, but only
thooe "which shall be NEcBssAY- and PnorEnfor carryirg into execution theforegoing powers vested, Ily this constitutiOn, in the government of the United States, or in any
department, or officer thereof."

An act which cannot be traced up to any original,
nor yet to this secondary power, in the constitution,
proceeds not from it. and, of course, partakes not of the
character of law. An act declaring itself to have proceedjed from the secondary power, which shall be manifestly improper and unnecessary, or either, cannot have
emanated from that power; and is both a stranger and
an-enemy t6 the constitution.
The limitation upon the secondary power was, originally, of a more striking and implosing character than
it now appears,-bince the adoption of the amendments
to the constitution. Most, if not all, of the high and
important prii'ileges, fenced about by those amendments,
owed their security and protection, previous to the
adoption of these amendments, to these, two talismanic.
words, if I may use the term. Without soine restraint
imposed upon this sebondary power, most probably the
ineans to effect a lawful purpose would have been wht
congress pleased to make theni. An unlimited power
over the means of accomplishing a proper end, would
have been as terribly pernicious in politics as in morals.

FEBRUARY Tr=

1815.

It would have been not even a new mode of despotism. u. sTATB
T.
Nothing in the constitution could have stayed its monstrous course. It might, and probably would have crush- BRYAzi
ed beneath it, in its destructive progrgss, every atom of & wooncocN.
civil and religious liberty.
And, further, it cannot escape our observation that
the people, ih their provident care of themselves, have
established, certain criterions, by which the proprietyand
ecessit of measue' shall be tested. I referto the preamble of the constitution, where the moving causes--the
great motives of establishiug this government, are set
out; and placed, as it were, for guards and sentinels at
its very threshold.
As there was, originally, no express provision in the
constitution destined to protect the privileges which are
now so sedulously guarded by the amendments, so is
there still none to be found to forbid the enactment, by
congress, of laws impairing the obligation of contracts,
or those that are ietrospective. To pass the former
would notbe ,,prper," because it would be to traveloa
path of error, which the people have positively forbidden their own state governments to use. It. would not
be ,proper," because it would overturn instead of cc est.aZishing justice"' it would be to frustrate in place of
promoting one'of the first great objects of the people in
forming this goverment.
As to retrospective laws we learn, in our report-. from
an authority which has always been, and I trust will
long continue to be, respected in this Court and in this
country, that an earnest, but unsuccessful attempt was
made in the convention to prohibit, expressly, to congress the exercise of the power to pass retrospective
lawvg, as well as ex post facto lav a. We are uot, however, to conclude, from the failure of the attempt to ex.pressly inhibit the exercise of this power, that it was
delegated to congress by letter or implication. The
convention evidently departed, with reluctance, from
the great and noble theory of government which they
kept so steadily before them. The whole stock (if power, they knew,.was in the hands of tile people--it all
belonged to them. Their business was not to specify
what they kept for themselves, but to particularize what
48
VOL. IX.

SUPREME COURT U. Sd
U. STITES they surrender in trust, for their benefit, t6 the govern-

v.
ment. It is true they sometimes departed from this
BRYAN rule; as thoy did 'when they prohibited the enactment,
& wooD- by congress, of exposificto laws. They sucpped out of
'cocK.
the course which. with such visdom, they prescribtd to
_.:- thdmselves, not so much to guard against the exercise of
.a power which they then expresly (as they would without it, have almost as clearly) withheld, &4 to ohviate,
upon a point of the highest interest and feeling, the misconc.eptions of ignorance; and to quiet the appreliensions and suspicions of fear and jealousy. Tle 'power
to pass r6trospective laws, then, is w ither expressly
given, nor expressly -withheld. When *suclh acts are,
therefore. -passed by congress, they must derive tleir
authority from being ", proper and nvcessary" means to
the exercise of some other power expressly given. Some
such laws, in given cases, it is nc't denied, may be comprised by this definition; and be fairly regarded as entirely constitutional. It is, notwithstanding, contended
that thrse must alays be considered as cases of exception, proving, the general rule, that retrospective acts
are not ,s necessary and prope-' means to give duo effect to the powers vested i in the government, or in any
department or officer thereof." If congress, thus vlothed with every power that ought to be desieed, 'with
abundant means for a wise and .provident government,,
should fall into the mistakes of short-sighted min, they
must, like him, pay the forfeit of error, and the price of
experience, It caun.t be ,,necessar and proper," nor
will it, establish justice," to transfer to others the consequences of their own improvidence. Such. the Defendants in this case, contend would virtually be the offeet of retrospective liens and priorities, in favor of the
goVermnent, and at the expense of the citizen. The exercise of such a power would overturn all the rules by
which men are governed in calculating the chances of
safety, and in pstimxiting the risks of danger, when they
give credit to each other. To set up such liens and prioities wond not be "proper," because it would inipair
the obligation, of contracts between.citizen and citizen,
by rendering unavailing the means of ensuring theie execution. It would not he 6proper"," because it would
he lessening the security for private ipnoperly." if not
taking it away by undue eprocess" of law. It is true
that the creditor, who does not obtain security for the

-.

FEBRUARY TERM iib.
payment of his debt, cannot escape the lawful conse- U. STATr.
*.
quencie or a subsequent act of his debtor. His dependence for saft-ty, in this respect, is placed upon his BRYAr.i
knowledge of the character of hiq debtor, and upon his & wooDown vigilance. But, most assuredly, he ought to have coox.
full reason to rely that the character of any concern in
whica his debtor has bev-n alr!-ady i ngaged, will not be
changed by matter of subsequent enactment, so as to enhanctiis risk of danger beyond what it was w!en the
debt was contracted. Such a mode of legislation, I repeat, would violate anti not ',estblish justicT :" by enfeebling cinfidence between man and man, it would retard inf-t'.-, of ,ronoting the general welfare :" it
would '-impair the obfigation of contracts :" it would
be virtually taking away private ,,poperty" without
" due process of law." An act, tten, producing an of
these effecA could not have been "necessaj and proper;" dnd is not warranted by the constitution: and;
of course, the Plaintiffis in this caqe are nut -s entitled"
(to lise the expression in the stated case) to the satisfaction they claim under it.
2. The Defendants are ne.xt to enquire whether such
a law has. been passed: wiiether the 5th section of the
act of the. 3d of March, 1797, is retrospectie?

If thero be any doubt whether it was the intention of
congress to give to this art a retrospective eff'ect, evry
objection which can be fairly urged againsL its constitutionality will incline the Court to such a constrqctitn as
will rescue it from that imputation. Tie Defendants
insist that it was not. intended to have this efflect.
Until this law was passed there was no other in force
securing to the United States priority of payment, I xcept in cases of custom house bonds for duties.
The first act giving this priority was passed on the
p 7) and is confined to the
3ist of July, 1789, (1 Tol 1.
case of custom house bonds. The 21st section of that
act provides that, "f In all cases of insolvencj, or iwhere
" any estate in the hanlds of executors or administrators
isfthll be in siffleient to pay all the debts due front the de.
" ceased, the debt due to the United States ow ANY guch
-noND, (i. e. for the payment of duties) shall be.first
"satisfied."

SUPREME COURT U. S.

380
it.
STATES

v.
3pYA:N

& WOOD-

The next law, giving priority to the United Statess
The
is that of the 4th of August, 1790, (1 Vol. p. i2.)
15th section is in these words: "That -where any bond
",forthe payment of duties shall not be satifed on the day

coCK. , t became due, the collector shallforthwith cause a prose"cution to be conmenced for the recovery of the money
"i thereon, -by action or suit at laiv, in the 'proper
CoMrt
ith)wving cognizance thereoJ; and in all cases of insolt,enu6 cy, or whzere any estate in the hands f executors or ad" inizstratorsshall be insufficient to pay alt the debts due
"from the deceased, the debt due to the United States, ON
"ANY sUt BoNy," (i. e. for the payment of duties,)

shall be first satiqfied."
Nor does the.act of the 2d of May, 1792, (2 vol. p.
78) create. this priority. The 18th section, refcrs to
bonds given ,,for duties on goods, wares and merlcandize imported." It transfers the priority of the United
States to the surety, or his representatives, upon payment of the debt on such bond. The extension, by this
section, of the case.s of insolvency mentioned in the 45th
section of the act of 4th August, 1790, applies only to
the subject matter of that section, which were bonds for
duties. The same was the subject matter of this section.

If, upon any other bonds than custom house bonds, a
priority had been sicured to the United States, why was
ijot a transfivr of that priority provided for in behalf of
the surety, or his representatives, who paid the bond, as
well as in the case of bonds for.duties ?
4

After the law of 3d of March, 1797, establishing a
general priority in cases of subsequently contracted
debts, the provisions on this head in subsequent acts
assume a corresponding chhracter. Thus in the act of
the 2d of March, 1799, section 65, (1Vol. p. 316) the
provisions are co-extensive with the then established
pi'iority. The first member of this section continues
the priority in respect to bonds for duties. ".It re-enacts
in the same words the 15th section of the act of 1790,
(I Vol. p. 221) giving that priority. The next membtr
of this section is general, and declares the liability' of
the representatives of a debtor if they pay any debt in
preference "t to the debt or debts due to the United States."

FEBRUARY TERIZ

isiS.

Here are no words like those used in the acts of 1789 u. STATES

and 1790, above referred to, to limit and restrain the

V.

meaning to any particular " bond" or debts. Their li- BRYAN
ability commences upon the payment of any debt in pre- & Voon-

ference ",to the debt or debts dite to the United States."
The first proviso of this st.ctiun respects bail. The second proviso mnkes a general regulationi in behalf of

sureties, or their reliresentatives, who pay tbe debt due
to the United States upon tny bond "for duties on
goods, wares or merchandize imported, or other penalty-;" and the cases of insolvency, in this act mentioned,
are declared to extend to the cases of assignment, attachment and'bankruptcy.
That therd was not given to the United States the
priority, except in cases of custom house bonds, until
the act of 1797 was passed, was conceded by their counsel in the case of Fisher and Blight, (2 Cranch, 362.)
The 5th section of the act of the 3d of Mlareb, 1797.
referred to by the agreement of the par'ties in this 5uit,
as before mentioned, is in the following words: "That

f v
7here.any revenue ocer, or other person hereafter be"coming indebted to the United States by bond or otherfc 'wsq, sllg become insolvent, or -where the estate of any
"deceased
debtor, in the hands of executors or administra" tors, shall be insuffcient to pay all the debts duefrom the
c, deceased, the debt due to the United States shall be first
ccsatfied;. and the priority hereby established shall bc
.6 deemed to extend as -well to ases in -which a debtor, not
cc having szfficient property to pay alt his debts, shall make
"ca volttatary assignment thereoj, or in -which-the estate
" and efects of an dbsconding, concealed, or absent debtor
"6shall e attached by process of la6, as to cases in 'which,
f. an act of legal bankruytcy shall be committed."
The Defendants insist that there is error in the punctub.tion of this section; and that it ought to be read
with a comma at the end of the second line (of the printed sOction) between the words "person" and "hereafter." It would then read - That "wheifany revenue offzcer, or other person, hereafter becoming indebted," &c.
The section thus pointed will establish for the United
States a priority in case of subseqently created debts,
where, 1. The debtor is Insolvent. 2. Where he makes

cocK.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
t. STATES
T.
]UYAN
& VooDcocK.
---

a voluntary assignment of his effects, not having sufM-.
cient to pay all his debts. 3. Where an attachment
shall issue against the effects of an absent, absconding,
or conceaied debtor. 4. Where the debtor shall commit
an act of legal banf.ruptcy. 6. Whe.o his effects, in the
hands of executors ot admiitrators, shall not be sutfcient for the payment of all his debts. Without this
latter provision, it has always beeii apprehended that
the declared priority in cases of insolvency would not
bind executors and adminitrators: and it has uniformly been introduced to create in that case, not a greatero
but only an equal priority. There can he no reason for
supposing '(notwithtanding the general words' of this
member of the sectiofn, respecting executors and administrators) fliat it was intended to extend the priority in
this'case to debts previously, as weil as subsequently created. The subject matter of the section, with the punptuation we contend for, must be, considered a. provision
for debts sulbsequently coniracted. To understand its
subject matteri other than is here ingicted upon, is to
suppose the establishment of diffiTent priorities, without
any reasonable motive or inducement for discrimination.
In such case the gneiral (retrospective, as well as prospective.) priority would apply to thb case of a revenue
officer, to the case of a deceased debtor, and to the cases
of voluntary assignment, attachment and bankruptcy.
The limited (or prospective) priority would extend only
to caseo of persons (othe" than -revenue officers) becoining insolvent. Why this distinction between the insolvent and the ethez' debtors ? And, in this view of the
subject, what meaning is to be attached to these words,
46 and the priority hereby established, shall be deened
to extend,' &c. ? According to the construction, which
we oppose, the priority established by the previous part
of the section was general as it respects revenue offi.
cers, and executors and administrators; and 'limited as
it respects other persons. If it had been the intention
of le legislature t establish different priorities, they
%iouldhave negatived, by their expressions, the individuality of the priority: most probably. they wduld
have said. in place of the words they have used, "and
tle priorities hereby respectively established." Then if
a "crevenue officer" assigned, if his effects were'attached as those of cc an absent, concealed or absconding
debtor," or if lie committed "a legal act of bankrupt.

FEBRUARY TERMi

1815.

ey," a general priority would attach.

If any

other,u. 9TATE!

person" came within this description, a limited priority

would attach.
But there is a'still greater obstacle to remove before
the .-onstruction of the Plantiffs can 'prevail. It would
make a distinction, without reason, between "revenue
officers" ard custom house officersi and, indeed, between - reVenue officers" and all other nominal agents
of tLe government, whether accountable by bond or
otherwise. A general priority would attach in case of
a "revenue officer" only ; and a linied priority in case
of other receivers 6f the public money.
It cannot be said that. "revenue officers" coroprise
custom house officers. 'Itis very true that money arising from customs constitutes part of the public revenue.

Nor is it intended to be denied tbat, in trict propriety,
the collectors of those.customs vjiglt be termed "reve.-

nue officers." But it is insisted that t e terns used
were not intended to have that meaning, but a linited,
appropriated and technical meaning. It is believed that
in no other sense have they ever been used. in any act
ofeongress, Had it been the design of the legislature
to use this definition in its enlarged, and not its accustomed sense, they would have taken cdre to have marked their departure, from fermer observances, in a manner that would have admitted of no doubt; in away
too" that would have denoted, with precision, as occasion might require, the generic, and specific signification
of'the terms. And, besides, the legislature, after passing. this law, have, themsvlves, Z.learly disaflirmed the
construction to which we object, by resortilig again to
these expressions, and undeviatingly using them in their
former, limited and specific sense.
If the Defendants interpretation of the words'"rovenue.officer" is correct, then the fifth section will not,

whatever may be its proper punctuation, establish a re-

trospective priority in the case of custom house offiers.
For jf the Court adheres to the existing punctuation of
the statute, then custom house officers will be embraced
by that part of the section. Which refers to persons becowing-indebted to the United Stetes a*er the passing

of this Law; and the extension of the prlority, in the

T.
DDYAI?
& 1OOD-

coczE.

381

SPREME 'COURT U. S.-

cases mentioned, in the latter pait of the sectiob, wal
adapt itself necessarily, and even inthe absence of 'the
usual technical words of discrimninadon, to that wbich,
BRYAN
& WOOD- as occasion serves. will become its proper subject matCocK. ter.' Thus, if the extension is to apply to a revenue officer,-the priority will be general-retro§pe-twve, as well
as prospective; but if the extension is to apply to " any
othrr lerson,"- (and, of course, including custom house
oflicers) the priority will only be prospective.

V. STXTES

v.

If either of the general views here taken of this sub'ject is cor'rect, the United States, in this 'cae, are not
",entitled, under the 5th section of the act of congress;
, passed the 3d of March, 1797, to satisfaction of their
,demands, out.of the effects of Isaac Hendriclson the
"bankrupt,,in the hands of the garnislwes. as'assignees
"of the bankr.upt, prior to the claims. .r any part of
"thm, of other creditors bf said bankrupt being satis"f ied.;" because the debt due to the United States was
created prior to the enactment of that law.
Rusr, .ttorncy General.for the United Statis.
The reasons in support of the cldim of the United
States do 'not rest-upon the rights of preriogative, but
upon the terms of the legislative grant. It mtu't be admitted that the legislature had power to grant the priority which is claimed in the case of public officers; and
the judgment of this Court, in opposition to all objections however well stated, has recognized and established the legitimacy of the grant inevery case of a public
debtor, whatever miglit be the origin or miture of the
debt The existence 'of the power is,°ther6fore, no lo'ngor open to dispute, whatevei speculativw doubts may be
cherished as to.its propriety; or %,hatever cobtroversy
way' arisb upon the case proper for its applicatop.
But, the legislative power is limited in its exercise by'
the positive provisions of the constitution, and it is provided, among other things, that congress shall not pass
an expostfacto law. The act of the 3d of March, ±797,
having been passed subsequent to the death -of the col.
lector; and, of course, subsequent to the period of the
debt's being contracted; the question is mad6; whether
the. act would not. assume the character 6f an ex post

FEBRUARY TEIM s815.
facto law, if it were to be applied to the present case.
The answer in the negative is maintained by the following general reasons.

U. STATMS

T.
BRYAN

& woon-

:1. In ascertaining the true import of the terms, ex cocm
post facto, this Court has decided that they only apply to criminal cases. The present is a case of debt.
2. Laws having a retrospective effect in civil cases,
both as to rights afid remedies, have never been, on that
account alone, deemed unconstitutional. Theorectically,
retrospective laws may sometimes be condemned; but,
practically, they are common to every system of jurisp~rudence. A member of the convention, who framed
the constitution of the United States, "had an ardent
desire to have extended the provision respecting expost
facto laws to retrospective laws in general ;" but, having
falled in accomplishing that desire in the convention,
when he became one of the ornaments of the bench of
the Supreme Court f the United States, he concurred
in the judgment flat congress possessed the power to
pass retrospective acts in relation to civil, though not
ex postfacto laws in relation to criminal cases.- (See 3

Dan. 397.)

If, therefore, congress has passed an act which must
have a retrospective effebt, the Court will not, merely
for that cause, declare it unconstftutional and inoperative. Before the act of the 3d of March, 1797, was
passed, congress had provided, in favor of the United
States, for a prierity as to the payment of debts upon
bonds for duties. But no similar priority was made applicable to the cases of revenue officers; of accountable
agents; of debts on bonds other than bonds for duties;
or on contracts. These presumed defects in the law
produced the act of'the 3d of March, i797, and it must
be expounded most liberally to remove the defects, and
advance the remedy in contemplation. With respect to
revenue officers, it was the policy, and m'ist be taken to
be the meaning of the law, that, when they prove insolvent, the priority shall attach in favor of the United
States, with a full retrospective effect. But when a
debtor, not a revenue officer, proves insolvent, lie must
have become indebted to the United States after tho
passing of the act in order to establish the claim of pri-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ority. Such, I have been informed,* has been the cult.
struction in the Supreme Court of rennsylvania in a
BRYAn" case of the co'mmonwiealth, for the use of the United
'& WOOD-' States, against Lewisi the surety of the administrators
CocK. of Delany, who was collector for the port of Philadel--- .phia, and died indebted to the United States, before the
act of the 3d of March, 1797, was.passed. The provision of the 5th section of the act respecting the priority
of payment, and of the estate of a deceased debtor in the
hands of executors or administrators, was considered,
intthe same case, as a substantive provision, analogous
to the provisions in most codes, by which, upon the decease of a debtor, the law undertakes to class his debts,
and prescribe the order of payment; as, for instance,
apecialties -before simple contract debts, and debts due
to the state before those due~to individuals.

r. s ATns

T.

It has been suggested, however, that a collector of
the customs is not a revefnue officer within' the meaning.
of the act of the 3d bf March, 1797. But, the fact is,
that the collector has, peculiarly, been deemed such an
officer; as wffl by practical experience as nnder the
terms of the act itself. If the Court should decide otherwise, it is to be feared that the security given would be
far short of the intention and policy of the act of 1.797.
The government had, obviously, more at risk upon the
fidelity of the collectors of the customs than upon avy
other class of revenue officers. That they are embraced
under the designation of revenue officers in the act, it is
believed has been taken for gi'anted in the different District and Circuit Courts of the United'States.
Mfarch -Xith. .Absent....TODD,
LVIVGSTOX,

.

J. delivered the opinion of the Court as

follows:
The United States claim a priority in payment out of
the estate of Hendrickson in the hands of the Defent
dants. Hendrickson, it appears, was one of the sure.
ties of George Bush, late collector at Wilmington, who
died on the "2dof. February, 1797, in debt to the United
Mr. Dallas, who artued the case, ho been kind enough to favor we
lth.he ~ormatiow.

FEBRUARY TERM i8ig.
States, as appears -by a subsequent adjustment of his U. STATE;
accounts at the treasury in the sum of 3,153 dollafs and
T.
6 cents. By the 5th section of the act of the 3d of xRYA
March, 1797, under which this priority is claimed, it is & WooDdeclared that where any revenue officer, or other per- cocic.
son, hereafter becoming indebted to the United States
by bond or otherwise, shall become insolvent, &c. the
debt due to the United States shall be first satisfied.
The Court is of opinion that Hendrickson was indebted to the United States before this act passed, that
is, at the time of the death of the collector, althQugh the
accounts of the latter were not ettled until after its
passage; and that, therefore, the law which secures a
priority against the estates of persons who shall thereafter become indebted, does not apply to this case. The
judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

THE BJIG CONCORD, TAYzon,

1815.

M1ASTL.

March

1th.

Absent....TovD, J.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Circuit if captured
Court, affirming that of the District Court, whicl re- fPoaa ried
neutral
stored to the Claimantsx neutral Spanish merchants at oYner, be by
Tenerife, 20 pipes of ,wine, part of the cargo of the cn.et r.l
urtrder
British brig Concord, captured by the Americanpriva- une
*teer Marengo, in August, i812, without piaymeut of da-.nn aaertiards
fe
fa
ties ; although the same had been, by consent of th
proctors for the parties, sold under an order of the Crt, thd'proprareh'-reteeds
Court.
doted to
The cause being submitted without argument;

stored to ruth
•

STORY, J. delivered the opinion of the Court, as follows:

thethe
oner,
amount or
dutiC3 due to

US. upog

then imrtatioa
f
go-Xh rWust 40

This is the case ot a stupment made by a neutral Pq.,
house on board of a British ship which was captured,
on a voyage from Teneriffe to London, by the private
armed ship Marengo, and brought into the port af New

