SUPREME COURT U. 8;
if the danger was so pressing, and the vessel nearly on
her beam ends, was not-relik:f sought by throwing over
Iv.
the deck-load, or a part of it? The Court does not mean
U.STATF5. to say that it was the master's duty to sacrifice the cat'go rather than 'go to a foreign port; but from his not
disembarrassing himself of an incumbrance wvhich must
have been so in'ich in his way, it may well be doubted
whether tie situation of the brig were as perilous as is
now represented. or the lives of the crew exp9sed to the
dangers we now hear of.
BRIG
T'RUGGL

Fi'om the declarations of the Claimant as to his intentions previous to the voyage an argumcnt was drdawn in
his favor.
It is sufficient: to say. that such declarations are not
evidence, and if they were? mi ht, iii a case otherwise
mysLerinus, rather increast thl , lu suspicion. As little dependence is to bp placed on the fact, that for a foreign o 'vage, high .r wages would have been demanded
than for one to Charleston. Althoumh the original
agre; mnet with the mariners may have been, and probably was for Charleston, there can he no doiibt that the
owner wouhl have an interest, in a case of this kind, to
raise them full as high as seametn would'have a right to
expect, if the vessel were carried, -and especially without
a palpable necessity; to an interdicted foreign port.
Considering then, the suspicious source from which the
testimony is derived, and the ,infavorahle and unexplained circumstances which have been stated, the Court is
unanimously of opinion, thht the sentence of the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.

185.
Feb.

RANDOLPH v. DONALDSON.

16th.

.qbaseIZ....MARSALts

, Ch. J.

TODD,

J'.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the ilistriet of
to Virginia. in an action of debt, brought by Donaldson
tse sttRnl
Jrllotadrc,
agaiti8st Ranolhl~llate- marshal of that district, forr the
prneQs
under
.n ,to;
commtt~d
If

FEBRUARY TERM iW .
escape of one Baine who being taken inexecution by nLN.moLn
V.
the deputy marshal, had been delivered over to the jailor
of the statu piison of Botetourt county, fim whose cms- moniALDso'.
tody he escaped,
The action was in the common form, and the Defen- rfm thu

dant pleaded aildebet, upon which issue was joined. '
Upon the trial the Defendant below took two bills of

exception.

ntd Sate
e-cipe, the
M =10

Nbie.

The first bill of exceptions sets forth the judgment and
exception of Donaldson agaifist Baine, and the mar
sha's return of the. e,.ecution in these words cc Execuc t,-d, and the Defendant imprisoned in the jail of Bu6c tetourt the 13th November, 1797, as per the jailor's
",
receipt in my possession-Samuel Holt, D. M. for
",David M. Randolph NI. V. D." It further sets forth
the evidence of the fact that the original debtor, Baine,
was e,n at large; c; whereupon the counsel for the
cc Plaintiff prayed the Court to instruct the inry that
c -althouigh the marlhal, the Defendant, by his deputy,
"c had delivered the said original debtor, Taine, to the
-jailor of Botetourt county, where he was committed
"c to jail. yet that the Defendant was liable to the Plaincc tiff f-)r an escape, upon the discharge bf the debtor
.-by the said jailor, unless an escape warrant has been
c taken out, as the law directs: whereupo.n the Court
"cinstructed the jury that in law the mnarshal would be
" liable to the Plaintiff if the said Baine escaped out of
"c the said jail, with the consent, or through the negli",gence of the said jailor.: as the act of the jailor was,
" in that respect, the act of the. marshal. The Court
-also instructed the jury, that if the eicape of the said
" Baine from the jail of' thisaid c.:unty of Botetourt
" had taken place. after the expiration of the time when
iite said David Meade Randolph was marshal of the
c Virginia district, he would he liable for such escape,
" unless lie shall prove that he had assigned over the
" said Baine to his successor in orfnnce by .a deed of as- signment; or by an entry on the rec6rds of this Court,
- that he had malle such assignment according to an
"act of asgembly of the commonwealth of Virginia up.
" on tht sabj ,ct, entitlel 4 an act to reduce into one
" all acts and parts of acts relating to the appointment

SUPREME COURT U. S.
and duties of sheriffs ;" the section of which act
referred to in the instruction is in the following words:
"XXII, and for removing all controversies touching
"the manner of turning over prisoners upon a sherift
"quitting his office, Be it firther enacted, That the do"livery of prisoners by indenture, between the old sher"iff and the new, or the entering upon record, in'the
"'county Court, the names of the several prisoners and
"Fcauses of their commitment delivered over to thinew
",sheriff, shall be safficient to discharge the late sherdf
"c from all suits or actions for any escape that shall hap" pen afterwards." To which opinion and instructions
"the Defendant excepted,"

RZANDOLPR6,

v.
DONALnSON.
-

"

The 2d bill of exceptions. stated that " the Defendant
6 offered evidence of the insolv.-ncy of Baine at the time

" of his imprisonment and discharge, and moved the
Court to ins truct the jury that if they were satisfied
",of the insolvency of Baine, and that Donaldson neither
"resided himself, nor had any known a;ent, in the
"county of Botetourt, at the time of Baine's imprison"miret and discharge, to whom notice might be given
" that lie was insolvent and that security for the prison
,,fee.s was required, that in these circumstances, the
,,jailor wis legally justified in discharging him under
"the act of the general assembly of Virginia in such.
"case made and. provided. But the Court was of opi,nion that in the application of this act of assembly to
"the case of a marshal, the whole district of Virginia
,was to be considered as his county, and it was suffii cient if the said Donaldson had any such known agent
t in the ditrict ef Virginia; and so instructed the ju"ry; to which opinion and instrustion the Pefendant
cc excepted,"
Thejury found a verdict in the following words : "cWe
i of the jiry find that the said Alexander Baine in the
.,declaration mentioned did escape from the jail in
,ithe county:of Bdetourt, with the constnt of the
"Defendant, the then marshal of the Virginia dis,,trict, as in thel declaration is set forth ; and there,
,,fore we find fo.the Plaintiff thle dobt in the declara",tion mentioned and assess his damages to .one thou'f sand dollars."

FE-BRUARY TERIM iMiS.

79

Ypon this verdic judgment -was rendered for the
Plaintiff, and the Defendant took his writ of, error.

nwAziD=

v.
IDONALD-

C. LE, for the Plaitfffin error.
By the law or Virginia it is necessary that the jury
should state, -in their verdict, that the escape was with
the consent of the sheriff The verdict, in the present
case states the consent of the rharshal ; but the jury
found the fact in consequence of the instruction of the
Court.
-1, The first opinion to which an exception was taken
was that the marshal was liable for theL negligence of
thejaitor,
The jailor was not the deputy nor the officer of the
marshal, but the'deput% of thesheriffofBotetourtcounty. He was not an officer of the United States but an
officer of the commonwealth of Virginia. He was not
appointed by. nor under the control of, nor responsible
to the marshal.
By the judiciary act of the tnifeed States, Tol. I, p. 66,
28, the marshal is expressly made liable for his deput.es " and shall be held answverable for the delivery, to
", his successor, of all prisoners which may be in Ida
6, cutstody at the. time of his removal, or when thd term
", for which lie is appointed shall expire, and for that
-,purpose may retain such prisoners in his custody un"6 til his successor shall be appointed and.qualified as
'o the law dirccts."
On the 23d of September, 1789, .ol. 1, p. 3M2, congress resolved ", that it be recommended to the legisla,, tures of the several states to pass laws making it'ex,, pressly the duty of the keepers of their jails to receive
"cand safe keep therein all prisoners committed under
,, the authority of the United States, until they shall be

s dis'charged by due course of the laws thereof, under

"°the
like
"Jendtties
qs in the•ca~e of prisoners commit", ted- under the authorify of such states respectively ;
" the United States to pay for the use ani keeping of
" such jails, at the rate of 50 cents per month for each
" prisone that shall,rnder their anthority, be commit-

so.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ted thereto, during the time such prisoners shall be
,,therein confailed4 and- also to support such of said
"prisoners as shall be committed for offences."

RANDOLPH"

.
IDONALD1SON.

In consequence of this recommendation, the legislature of Virginia passed " an act for the safe keeping of
- prisoners committed, under the authority of the Uni,,ted States into any of the jails in this commonwealth."
F. P. new Rev. Code, .ol. 1, p. 43, by which it was enacted , that it shall be the duty of the keeper or the jail
every district, county or corporation within this
I Fin
,,commonwealth, to receive into his custody any pri",soner or prisoners, who may be from time to time
, committed to his charge, under the authority of the
, United States, and to safe keep every such prisoner
, or prisoners according to the warrant or precept of
commitment, until he shall be dischar.ged by the due
"course of the laws of the United States."
2. m And tfiat the keeper of every jail aforesaid,
"shall, be subject to the- same pains and penalties for
6,any neglect or failure of duty herein, as he would
be subject to, by the laws of this commonwealth, for
"a like neglect or failure, in the case of a prisoner con,mitted under the authority of the said laws."
The keepir of the, jail is directly liable to the party.
It was not intended that lieshould have a double remedy, viz : against the keeper of the jail and the marshal.
Nothing could be more unreasonable than to make the
marshal liable for the conduct of a person not appointed by him, over whom lie has no control, and against
has no remedy. When the. marshal had dewhom lie
livered the prisoner to the keeper of the jail he Jad discharged his 'duty and was no longer liable. The prisoner was no longer in the custody of the marshal, bitt
of the jailor.
2. The second opinion of the Court, to wnicn an exception was taken was that, if the escape was after the
Defendant had ceased to be. marshal, still lie was liable
unless he had assigned over Baine as a prisoner to his
successor in manner provided by the law of Virginia.
The bbservations already made aro.an answer to this

FEBIWUARY TEIM 1M8i.
opinion. The marshal was bound by the law of thi RiAnnT.P T
W.
United States to deliver to his successor only such prisone-rs as were in his custody. Baine was not in his DoNALsoN.
custody, and therefore he was not hound to deliver him
over-and if not bound to deliver him over, he could Miot
be liable for his escape.
The opinion was objectionable also on another ground.
By the law of Virginia, the delivery over of pris,,ners
by indenture, and the record of the names of the prisoners delivered over, is not the only evidence hich a
sheriff may produce of the fact of the delivery. ''he
statute is cumulative only. It describts a mode by
which he may certainly exonerate himself, and the kind
of evidence which would be conclusive, but dces not deprive him of the right of proving the delivery over of
the prisoners by other means. The act of congres says
nothing of thi mode of delivery nor of the'mode of In oof.
The marshal was not bound to. take out an escape
warrant as required by the law of Virginia (I P.- '.
118,) because the prisoner was in the custody of the
jailor, and not of the marshal. Besides the marshal
must of necessity reside at a great distance from many
of the jails and it would be unreasonable to oblige hint
to superintend them all.
S The third opinion objected to at the trial %asthat
in applying the Virginia law of sheriffs to the marshal,
the whole district was to be considered as his county;
and therefore if the Plaintiff had an agent in any county
it was sufficient to prevent his discharge without notice.
The words of the act of assembly relative to the residence of the creditor or his agent, ought to be. taken
strictly. The laws of the state are to be takeli as rul &
of decision where they apply. But in this caAe they
were not applicable.
IL, L T1Lo6u, contra.
If doubt, exist as to the construction of a law, the
argument ab iconveanienti has great weight. If the
jailor is not liabli to the marshal, the Uited States are
not able to enforce their judgments. The jailor of a

VOL. IX.

Ii

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BADoIPH

V.
DONAL

soN.
•----

-

county is the officer of the sheriff who may br may not

require security. A district jailor gives security only
in the sum of 1500 dollars. It is not very important
whether the jailor is liable, as the remedy winld gener.
ally he of little value. But if he is liable it'does not follow that the marshal is not.
Under the resolutfon of congress and the act of Virginia the. jailor is only liable to the same ipains and
]penalties," strictly and tehnically considered, asif, &c,
That is he is only liable criminally, and not civilly, Ho
is liable to punishment for a voluntary escapep but not
to a civil remedy.
It cannot reasonably be presumed that the legislature
meant to confide the revenue, the debts of individuals
and the exectition of. the criminal laws of the United
States to the responsibility of a county jailor.
It is not unreasonable to charge the marshal, for lie
has by law all the power necessary for the sare keeping
ofhis prisoners. La6'of thw United States, vol. 1, p. G5,
He may call out guards, or he may have an 6fficer on
purpose to keep his prisoners.
He is bound to deliver over all his prisoners to hi&
successor and if bound to deliver over4 he is bound to
safe keep.tlhem. If those who, are confined in the coun.
ty jails are not in his custody, there are none in his
custody. Wio is to produce them on habeas corpts.
In case of epidemic disease, who is to remove them?
Wihe is to bring them into Court for trial ? Who is to
receive the money t@ion execution ?
If the legislature of the United States meant thus to
hatard the revenue, the criminal jurisprudence, and the
property of indivituals, they would not have left it to
inrerence, but haee been more explic it.
. As to the second opinion; it was r;ght if thd first
was right. There is no other mode by which a sheriff
quitting his office can relieve himself from responsibili.
ty. But there was no.evidence in tlte record that the
escape was after the Defendlant ceased t, be marshal,
and therefore the opinion was inapplicable to the case-

FEBRUARY TERM ii5.
and if so could not injure the Defendant. The bill of RAN.oLPHi
exceptions is always supposed to contain the ,wholu eviV.
dence in the cause. S Da!. S8.
D ,ONALDSON.

S. As to the third opinion. There was no evidence in
the case that the prisoner was discharged b,-cause there
was no agent of the creditor to pay his jail fees ; and
therefore this opinion also \ias inapplicable to the case,
and could not hurt the Plaintiff in error. But if tbe law
as to sheriffs in their counties is to be appliedto the
marshal of the disti ict, then the whole diqtrict must be
considered as his county. A creditor would have to
keep an agent in each county to receive notices, for it
would be impossible for him to know in which county
the marshal would imprison his debtor.
C. LJE, in reply.
It is unreasonable that the marshal should. be responsible for all the jailors in the state, over whom he has zio
control.
The sheriff is hound to commit a prisoner to the jail
of that county, 'in which he is arrested; and so is the
marshal. If the jail is bad, the justices of the county
are responsible. If the prisoner escape through thu negligence or by the consent of the jailor, the sheriff is liable, because the jailQr is his deputy. In Virginia if a
sheriff commit a prisoner to the district jail, he is not
liable, because the district jailor is not his deputy. A
Habeas Corpus would be directed to the jailor and not
the marshal. As to the risk of the revenue, the United
States bust suffer as otlhirs do ; they have thought proper to trust it to such keepers and if they suffer, the remedy is in their own hands.
As to'the second opinion; if there was no evidence to
justify it, that is another ground of rrror. But it appeared in the bill of exceptions that the witness was unce-tain whether it was before or after the Defindant ceased to be marshal that he saw the prisoner at large.
The opinion therefore wqs prejudicial to the Defendant.
8. As to the third opinion. The lav of Virginia, (i
P, P. 306, § 5,) deqlares it to bo unreasonable that a

SUPREME COURT U. S.
UItNDOLrII sheriff should be obliged to go ont of his county to give
v.
notice to creditors at whose suit any person rmay be in
uoN tI.D- his citstody, or to pay money levied on execution, and
enacts that where an execution shall be delivered. to the
sON.
sheriff of any other county than that in which the creditor"shall reside, such creditor shall name an agent in the
county where the execution is to be serv(d, for the'purpose of receiving notices and money; and if the creditor
fail to appoint such agent, the sheriff is not bound to give
notice previous to a discharge of such prisoner fou want
of security for his prison fees.
Thejailor was liable only in the same manner and to
Jhe same extent as he would have been if the prisoner
had been committed under the state authority. If committed under the state authority he would have had a
right to discharge the prisoner for want of security for
his fees without notice to the creditor. Tie Court
therefore erred in giving an opposite opinion.
Febraary 21st. ./bsent....MARsuALL,
STOAY, J.

Cl. J.

4. TODD,

J.

delivered the opinion of the Court is fol-

lows:
This is an action of debt brought against the former
marshal of Virginia for an alleged wilful and negligent.
escape of ajudmtnent debtor. At the trial of tie c~iis
in the Circuit Court of Virgima, several oxceptione4
wert, taken by the Plaintiff in error to tihe opinions of
the district judge who alQne sat in the cause; and the
validity of these exceptions is now to be considered by
this Court.
The first exception presents the question whether an
escape of a judgment debtor, after a regular commitment,,under process of the. United States' Courts, tora
state .jail, be an 6cape for which' the marshal of the
United States for the district is responsible.
Congress, by a resolution passed the 23d September,
1789. (1 Laws U. S. 362) recommended to the several
states to pass laws making it the dutJr of the keepers of
their jails to receive and safe keep prisoners committed
under the authority of the United States, tnder like,

FEBRUARY TERI I81.

85

'-fties as inthe case of prisoners committed under nANDOL Iu
T.
t . authority of such states respectively; and, by anotier resolution of 3A of March, 179i, (1 Lawrs U. S. DONAxnsoN.
357) authorized the marshals, in the meantime, to 'hire
temporary jails. In pursuance of the former recommendation, the legislature of Virginia, by the act of
12th November, 1789, ch. 1, (Revised Codp, 43) made
it the duty of the keepers of the jails within the state
to r.ceive and keep prisoners arrested under the pro.
cess of th& United States, and for any neglect or failure
of duty, subjected them to like pains and penalties as
in cases of prisoners committed under process of the
state.
The act of congress of 24th September, 1789, ch. 20.
§ 27 and 28, authorizes the marshals of the several districts of the United States to appoint deputies, and declares them responsible ror the defaults and misfemances
in office of such deputies. But there is no provision in
any act of congress declaring the keepers or state jails
quoad prisoners in custody under process of the United
States to be deputies of the.narshals, or making the latter liable for escapes committed by thp negligence or
malfeasance of the former. If, therefore, the marshals
be so liable, it is an inference from the general powers
and duties annexed to their office.
It is argued that the marshals are so liable, because.
in intendment of law, prisoners committed to state jails
are still deemed to-be in their custody: and in supprt
of this argument is cited the provision in the act of con.
greyss which makes the marshal, on the removal framn oi
the expiratio!n of his office, responsible for the deliver.,
to his successor of all prisoners-in his custody ; and authorizes him, for that purpose, to retain such prisumlir's
in his custody until his successor is appointed. And
this argument is further supported by its anal,'gy to the
case of sheriffs, and by the. extreme inconvenience
which, it is asserted, would arise from a contrary doctrine.
The argument is not without weight; but, upon mature consideration. we are of opinion that it cannot prevail. The act of congress has limited the resp insibility
of the marshal to his own acts and the acts of his depn-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RANDOLPR

0.
RONALD-

soNe.

ties. The keeper of a state jail is neither in fact r"
in law the deputy of the marshal. He is not appuintt

by nor removable at the will of the marshal.

When a'

prisoner is regularly committed to a state jail by the
marshal, he is no longer in the cuntody of the mar's,4d,
nor contriolable by him. '1he marshal has no uutboi'jty to command or, direct the kecpt'r inrespect to the
nature of the imprisonm'nt. Te keeper becomes responsit'Ie for his own aots, and may'expose himself by
misconduct to the - pains and penalties" of' the law.
For certain purposes, and to certain inttnts, the state
jail lawfully used by tilUnited States, may be deemed to be the jail of the United States, and that I,eper
to b' Ieep.-r of. the [Jnite.l States. But this would no
more make the marshal liable for his acts than for the
acts of any other officer of tim Unitud States whose appointment is altogether indelndent. And in thso respects there is a manifi-st ddl.,rence between the case of
a marshal.and a sheriff. The sheriff is, in law, the
keeper of the county jail. ari the jailer is his deputy
appointed and removable at his pleasure. Hp has the
supervision and c ntrol of all"lie prisoners within the
jail ; and, therefore, is justly made responsible by law
for all escapes occasioned by the negligence or wilful
misconduct of his under keeper.
On the whole, as neither the. act of congrpss nor the
doctrine of, the. common law applicable to the rase of
principal and agnt, affect the. marshal with I'eWsposibility for the escalle of a prikoni, reg'idlhy coimmitted
to the custody -f tile keeper id"a state jail, ne are all
of opinion that the d.cisi,,n of the Circuit Court upon
this point was erroncouw, and that the judgiment nust
be reversed.
This "decision renders it unnvct'ssarv, to con.iidcr thp
other points raked in tie bills of exception.

Judgment reversed.

