SUPREME COURT U. STATES.

MANDEVILLE
VIHE

UNION BANK OF GEORGETOWN.

Absent....LivNL-si'

181.
Feb.
Feb.

Term.
ath.

, J.TODD, J. and STOnY, .

ERR( R to the Circuit Court for the district' f By .mdn- n
.
Columbia, for the county, of Alexandria, in an action Oqf?
debt, by the Union Bank against Mandeville, upon his tqie aker au-

ad-e
dhO ¢sto die
promissory note •to C. I. Nourse, indorsed to the bank. bislk

to t,
On the trial below .aspecial verdict was found which credit
o tram
ovmer
note, the
states the following facts :

it
On the 15th of January, 1811, Mandeville, then and rt;=
wolhe a.
always an inhabitant of the town of ,Alexandia, (in 4he fraud upon the
county of Mexandria) for a valuable cosiderationtirnto-t.P
rset
madehis promissory note at the said town,'payable to C.I.
CWzeuenzeoi
at
negotiable
Nou~se (or order,) sixty days after date ;
trly the Union Bank of Georgetown ; payable at the Bank of,
the rarea
Potomac, in Alexandria, for 4i0 51.
The note was delivered to C. 1. Nourse, and on the
same day indorsed by him, and offered for discount at
the Union Bank, where it was rezularly discounted for
his use.
On the 30th of the same month, Mandeville being intormed that his note had been discounted, made no objection, and said that he had funds to meet it.
The note was not paid whenit became due, and was
protested for non-payment.

VOL. IX.

2

10
MANDE-

-viLL,,

v.

SUPREME COURtT U. SO

On the lath of the.same month (tie day. after the date
of Maiidevilles note) Ql arles 1. Nourse, for a full and

valuableconsideration, ex cuted and delivered to Mandeville, his'note of tbhatidate, payable in 60 days for
3mmA1. 0 400, negotiable at the Bank of Alexandria ; payable
at the Bank of Columbia, (in Georgetown.).

"NNION

On the 30th of the same month, C. I. Nourse became

further indebted to Mandeville by the acceptance of his
order of that dat', draNvn lt sight, and by acceptace
Made payable on he16t of Februaryfollowing,in favor
of C. Page for the use of Mandeville, for 64 dollarsneither df whic), has been paid. The Union Bank
tranacts its butsiness in Georgetown, in the county of
Washington.
On the ad oC February, 1811, Mandeville inserted an
advertisement in the- Alexandria Gazette, cautioning
all persons against receiving assignments of any notes
given by hini'to Nourse, as he had discounts against
them.
Mandeville, in the-'tourt below offered to sett-ofl' the
note and acceptlinces of Nopr*e, against his own note
upon which the suit was brought; but upon the special
verdict, the Court below rendered judgment against him
for its whole amount ; and hebrought his writ of error.
.y the laws of Virginia, in for.ce in the conty of Alexandria, the Defendant is allowed to sett-off against the
assignee of a promissory itote an.1 just claim which he
had against the origipal payee before notice of the assignmnent of the note.
But by the laws of Marylahd, in force in the county
of Washingion, a promissory note, payable to order, is
subject to the same rales as in England under the statute of Anhe.
On' behalf of the 'Plaintiff in error, it was contended
that the note, being made at Jlexandria nd'to be paid
irre, W'as to be gover,.d by the laws of Vii.ginia, and

that as he hold Nourse's note, b6fore lie had notice of

FEBRUARY TERM I8tM
the assignment of his own, he had a right to offset it in zk.nD.
V1Ll1
this suit.
"0.

On the otherside it was said that it was immaterial wNiou
by which law the note was to be governed ; ,for it was nmK.
made with a view. expressed on its face, to be dis-ount.ed by the Plaintiffs; whreby the Defendant had wav.d
any offset to which he might have a right. Besides
whih, upon being informed that the note was discounted by the Plaintiffs, be did nnt object, nor insist upon
had funds, (mani-g funls ot
his sett-offo but sad lie.
Nourse's) ti meet it. By which conduct a so he waived
his tlight to the sett-off.
Feb. 9t.
MARSHALL, C&. Z7. delivered the opinion
of the Court as follows:
It is entirely immaterial whether this question be. governed by the lavs of Virginia or of Maryland. By
neither of them can the discounts claimed by tie Plaintiff in error be allowed.
By making a note negotiable in hank, the mpker nifttiorizos the bank to advance on his credit to the owner
of the note the sum expressed otl its face.
It would be a fraud on the bank to sat up olls-Is
against this note in cnsequence of any transactions between the parties. These offsets are Naiv d and cannot, after the note has been discounted, be ag-ain a t up.
The judgment is to be affirmed with damages at the
rate of 6 per cent. per annum.

MEIGS

AxD

AL

-. MCLUNG'S

1815.

LyssEa.
Fe.

11th.

2bsentt... JoEso, J. ik TODD, J.
ERROR to the Circuit Court tor the district of East in the tzrety
Tennesse', in an .ct on of ejectment brought by art esua .
ni theChe.
l'Clung's lessee atgainst Meis and others

