SUPl:IEME COURT U. S.
sIP

thp ve.sels sailing without the cargo to a prohibited port

Court uindei-4tands the law, then, directing a bond
The
SlICHNMOND
to be given in double the value of the vessel ad carlo,
•".
V.STA'rES. to apply to dhe cargo if there be a cargo, but to the ves-

sel only if there be no cat-go.

The seizure of an American vessel within the teiritorial jurisdiction of a foreign power, is certainly an offence against that power, which imust be adjusted between the two governments. This Cou't can take no
cognizance. of it; and the majority of the Court is of
opinion that the la, does not connect that trespass, if
it be one, with the subsequent seizure by tile civil authority, under the proces of the District Court, so as to
annul the proceedings of ,that Court against the vessel.
One judge, who does not'concur in this opinion, considers the testimony as sufficient to prove that the Richmsond, when first seized by the gun-boat, was within the
jurisdictional limits of the United States.'
The sentence is affirmed with costs.

i815.
Feb.

'23d.

ARN OLD- AND OTHERS
V.

TIHE UNITED STATES.

Rhode

ERROR to the Circuit Court, for the district of
The dontile
dutiesimpoied Island, ii an action of debt, upon a bond in the penality
.by the act ot'of 3400 dollars, given July 2d, 1812, 'for duties at the

ust, utom
.8,
hbuse. The cause was decided below upon dogotis which murer to the pleas of the Defendahts who were the prinih cipal and sureties in the bond.
aiol

July

trict ou" that

It wa-a 'action of debt on a bond,1ated July 2, 1812,
given to. the United States for $310B. fIhjW condition of
tion, -o as to the bond, is is followb, viz. " The condition of this
?i-tto dues, "obljga on is such that if 'the 'above binmnden, S. G.
it is nreeoury "Arnold,'&e,. shall and do, on or beforo the d day or'
tit ,, October next, well and truly pay or cause to be paid
hSl
tO
it"unto the colliectoi"of the customs for the district of Pro*an
thrivt

AqT.b constitute
an importa-

FEBRUARY TERB I89.

:105

cc vidence for the time being, the sum of %L700, or the AimorV
"'amount of duties to be ascertainedas due, and arising tin & oTHEus
",certain goods,- wares andi merchaudizo enttred by the
T.
" above bounden S. G. Arnold, as imported in the brig U.STA.TES.
6 Dover, R. Fenner, master4 froin Havannia, as per en".try dated this day, then the above nvlligatton to be void, -itn
thi-U.
mesof
the
"&.",
Tie following indorsement
OIL the bond, viz. ste o e'a
colkctkn

&

trict, but
78 dollars and-uithht
,,Amount of duties ascertaijedas duei
"
thea 11"38 cents.

rh' of walo

THOMAS PECKHAM, Junr.

o inty.
jiort

Deputy GCollector."

if the falditien
of a bimu beto
pay 1700 dol..
lIra, or thr du.

The Defendants pleaded- that, a to 1708 dollals h--vahmy

and 38 cents, part anAl parcel bf said stm of. 3UO dol- to
Le bea-dlueupona
ned
Jars demanded by. the laintifl, with the interest there- ,tajng,,
on from the day wh;eti the same was payable. to the imported,
nt in tie itcip-is
time of the plea, being is dollars and 38 cents, they owe 'of dite obthe Plaintiffs the same, being in the whole the sum of li;ee to di.

:1721 dollars and 76 cents ; a;d that as to tile whole re- hGe th* .
sidue ofthe suni demanded, the 1jefendants say, that th re- Ment Of "
for the Plaintiffs, their said action ou.ht not to have and *do
• ", ",s" ,
, That an obli.
maintain, because th.y say, "that the brig Dover in the M=yant
"condition of the said bond mentioned, sailed from Ha- 'a-,
er
"vanna, on the 16th day ofJune, A. D. i8t4; bound to the e than tho
,"said district -f Providence, and that she arrived -withinLd.
t
"the Uaited States, on the 30th day of June, I8M2, and WIhte the
"within the said district of Providence, on the st day (fto
rile
"July, A. D. 1812, having on board the said goods, &c. from n act
the day,
"mentioned in the condition which said goods, &c. were done,
o y
h~1 the
s,imported into the said United States, oi the said 80th act !s done, is
" da ofJune, 18 [-, and into the said districtof Providenc to be ilC
"on the said 1st (lay of Julyj f812, in tile brig Dove',

,,&c.that Providence is the s-dlc port of entry in tle
"said district of Providence, and that on the'said 2d of
"July, iSi2, tile said goods, &c. were duly entered at the
' custo

house in the said district of Providence, as imported in the said brig Dover, &r. the Defendants
"further aver, that the buid aforesaid, was madei
"executed and- given by them to the. Plaintiffts as
i,aforesaid, for securing the duties due on the said
',goods, so imported as aLforesaid, in conformity'with, and by virtue and in pqrsuance of, tile act of
(c the con#ess, &c. passed onl the i0th day of August,
VOL. IX.
*

SUPREME COURT U. S.
"1799,.ent'tied "an act niaking furtherrrovision for tim
"p y.,yti(-t o the debts ot the iUiited S5ates," and also
T.
"sa cerian other act of coigress, passed on the th dlay
U.STATES. " of J unt, 1794,, Lnutled ,an act layia'g additional duties
,,on goods, &e. imported into the United States." The
6' Defendants also aver, that the duties due by the acts
6aforesaid, on the importation of &aid goods, &c. in
cc manner aforesaid, a~nounted at the time of the impor"tati.n of the. same as afo-esaid, to the aforesaid stm of
- i708 dollars and s8 cents, and no more, and wvere then
" and there ascertained by the said deputy collector, to
",that sum and no more, according to the condition of said
if boul, and in pursuance of the provisions of said statutes.
-They also aver, that atthetime of the entering of the said
"goods, &c. atthe custom house, as aforesidd, on thesait 2d
"day of July, 18t4i,nbither they, tho'Defendants, nor
,"the collector of the customs for saiddistrict of Provi"dence, had aly knowledge of the act, entitled " an act
"for imposing additional dtities upon all goods,.&c. im",ported from any foreign port or place, and foir other
",purpost's," passed on the ist day of J"uly. 1812 ; nor
;,was the said last mentionedl act promulgated, publish-ed afid mad9 known, at the district of Providenco ar.
,aforesaid, at the. time- of mak;ng the said entryp ns
,aforesaid,
and this the Defendants are ready Ao
"verify, &c.
ARNOLD

& OTHERS

To this plea, the Plaintiffs demurred.
In the Circuit Court, judgment was r~nderod for tlio
Pliintiffs', for 3128 dollars and 90 cents.
SPIKITN, On the part of the Plainiffs in error, contended,
. 1. That the act imposing double duties could .notp
-on'principle-s of law, or justice, be considered a' in operation until the 2d day of July. The words of that act
*are: that - an additional duty, &c,shall be levied and
"collected uoon all goods, &c. which shall,froin and af.,•ter thfepassing oj, this act, be imported into the United
i States, &c.'1
The act was approved by the president on the Ist day
of July, 1812. Byv the sounid construction of the words,

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
"from pnd after the passing of this act," it is contended AunoLD
that the first tiay of Juy, must be excluded; that the & oTXEfS
imeaning is tl:e same, as if the words used had been !rom
V.
and after the ist day of Jt ly, in which'case theIst day U.STAT.S.
of July wotrd certainly be excluded, and the act would not b in force until after that day. " F;om aud after the
passing this act," have also the same meaning, as frimr
and after th time, of pass'ng the act. The question would

then occur, as it now does, when or at what time was
the act passed, the answer is on thei st da% of July, and
of course, unless there arefractonsof a day, the duties
could not be levied and collected until after that day.
The act repealing the duty on salt passed in 1807, declares, 'sthatfronm and after the SIst day of December
6c next, so much of any act as lays a duty on iniported
ccsalt, be and the same is h~ereby repealed, and firou rud
6cafter
the day last aforesaid: salt shall be imported, &c.
ccduty free."
No one has ever pretended, -that salt could be imported duty free, until the 1st day of January, becaust, it
could pot be so imported, until from and after the day
preceding. The Court must undoubtedly give such it
construction to the act, as that no.litizen can, bypossibi.
lity be subjected to its operation before it had actuaU ,
passed. In order to prevent this, the Court must either
exclude the 1st day of July altogether, or they must admit fractions of a day, and suffer an enquiry into the
very moment of time on that day, when the act received
the signature of the president, and -waslodged in the
office of the secretary of state.
.Ifavessel had arrived in the morning of the 1st day
of July, and the act was not in fact approved by the president, until the afternoon of that day, it cannot ho protended, that the goods brought in such vessel, "were imported "from and after th' passing of the act." It is
well known, that acts are not generally presented to tho
president for his approbation, until about the middlo
of the day, and on the last day of the session, frequently -not until nearly the last hour of the day. The
difficulties iowever, attending an enquiry of th.s nature,
as well' as the imp-.,priety of calling on the president
for ififormation. as to thd moment when a law received
his saiction, may perhaps be sufficient inducements for

SUPREME COURT U. S.
AkuoLL' the Court to say, that when the rights and 'interests of
T.
the citizens are so materially involved, arid when by the
& OTliERS express words of the act, it is not to take effect, until
U.S ATES. from and after' the passing of the same, they will, as a
general rule exclude the day on which it passed. The
authorities, which nave a bearing on this qoestion are
various and contradictory. In the case of Pugh S-'wife
v. Duke of Leeds, C(.owper 714, these authorities are re.ferred to and commented upon by lord Mansfield with
his usual ability and sound sense.
Much inore subtlety than argument has been used to
prove a difference in the meaning of words made use'ol;
in instruments, to shew the time, when they should take
effect. When the words have been , fromlthe date," the
Court have sometimes said, it should include the day, and
where the words have been . from the day of the date,"
it shouhl exclude the. day. In some cases the Co rts
have eirlirely i.ejected thisdistinction, and have said, that
they do or may mean the same thing. In the case of
Bdllaiss -o. lcser, I Lord .Iayinnd, 2b0, on a bill of exchange, payable 10 days after sig.ht, the Court, two
ju:lges against one, decided, that the day on which the
bill was presented for payment was included. This
oltamon, however, was against the custom and practice
of mercliants. In the case o Iatter o. .fAsh, I Lord Rtaymal(, v. 85, the following distinction is made by counsel, and is adinittd by one of the judges, and not contradicted by the others, ,, that the word.s" from the date
v'when used to pass on interest included the (lay, aliter,
, When used by way of camwntation on matters of acf count." This distinction is in some measure recognized by lord Mansfield, in the above caseof Ptg4 t " Leeds,
in Cooper. [u this last case lord Mansfield says, that
the words - from the date," or s, frori tie (lay of the
.( date." may be either inclasive or exclusive, accordiig
to the subject matter, and *maybe construed either way,
t give effect to the transaction, or for the furtherance of
justice between parties. In the case now before the
Court, it is not necessary to include the day, for the purpose. of .iving effect ad- validity to the law ; and in
case thed.my is Included, manifest injustice may, and in
all probability will happen to the citizens of the Unit,1
States. For, if the*re can he no fractions of a day, the
art must in legal contemplatiofrbe considered as In force,

FEBRUARY TERM :81.
from the first moment of the day, on which it received AUNoILD
the sanction of the president. It is'understood, that by & OTEflUS
V.
the construction- at the treasury, the 1st day of July, is
exduded, and that the accounts of the collectors of the U.STAT.S.
customs are all'settled, excluding double duties. on goods
whicl, arrivwi on that day.
2. Even if the act went into operation' on the tst day
of July,. then was this case a complete importation, before that time. The vessel and cargo arrived within the
U. States, and within the limits of the. state of R. Islantd,
on the 30th day of June, andthe importation was then per-k
fected. Importation does not imply a bringing into any
particular port, to which the vessel may be destined ; a
bringing ithin the jurisdictional limits of the U. States,
either on land or water, 6s an importation.- -mporting and
bringing into the U. States, are used synonimously in various sections of the collection law, and the fair interpretation of both expressions is, that an importation is no more
than voluntarily initroducing property .within the juris-diction of the United States generally, and does not. require its actual arrival at the port of its destination.
The moment a cargo so arrives within the. United States;
and before it reaches its port ofdestination, the right of
the United States, attaches to it. A manifest of the c4rgo must be delivered to their officers, und the,cargo subjected in some degree to. their control. The U. States
then have, at least, an inchoate right to duties, of'wlich
th owner, cannot deprive them except by exportation,
witho it unladig; the right-to the duties accrues, on tiq
first entry of the vessel into the waters of the United
States, and not after her arrival at her port of destinatimn;
and no new right, on such arrival, accrues,, except the.
secondary right of ascertaining the amount of duties to bo
paid, and the extent of the security reqiuired for their,
which could not be ascertained, till after an Actual entry at the Custom house. The coming in of thu vessel to
the waters of the United States, fier proceeding to her
destined port, her entry there, is one transaction, and is
one act in relation to duties; and when she reaches
her destined port and enters there, the right of the United States attaches as from the first moment of her coining within the jurisdictional limits of tile United States.
and the responsibilities of the owner cannot be increased
or varied to his injury, by subsequent acts of the govern)nent.

ffo

SUPREME COURT. U S..

ANoLD
The ;6th section of the law clearly -liscriminatea be&.OTU ERS tween imlortation and entry. B3 the collectiln law, and

IV.

all the forms of manifest, entry, &c. it is clearly evinced

U.STAT L3. that

importation'precedes entry.

To Constitute an importation, there must be a Voluinta.
ry bringing of goods into the United States; the vessel
inust b. boind to the United StAtes, with an intent there
to unlade her cargo, or to.enter the same for exportation
without unlading.'
Coming in by stress of weather or other necessity is
not a legal importation.
SBly a construction given to the navigation acts of
Great Britain, coming into a port, with an intent.t, un.
lade, although bulk be not broken, is an importation,
but a mere coming within the limits of a port, without
aay intent to break bulk, or urnlade, is not an importation,
eitlr to make the customs becomp due, or to subject the
ship or goods to Iirfcitiire, or to oblige the,maste' to re.
port, or make entry, &c. (Beeve's Historj of the law mf
shipping, !Z60.,)
So goods siezed in a ship 20 miles below the Hope,
hut within th, limits of the port of London; are consitder,
ed as an importatior, (Reeves, p. 261.)
It is believed also, that, under our non-importation
law, arrival at any particular port of destination, is.not
necessary to constlrute an olhflnce tinder that act, but
that if the vessel i§bound to the United States with an
intent there to unlade 1er rarzo. the forfeittrd is incur.
red the moment the vessl vuluntarily entet-s the limits of
the United States. The words in the collection law and
non-importation act, are tho same, viz. "Imported iiito
" the United States," &c.
3.1fI', however, the importation. was not so complete,
as that the dutips accrued, on the arrival of the .vessel
within the jurisdictional limits of the United States ; it
is Contended, that the impgrtati-in was p'rfected, and the
right of tle United States t,, duties conplete ,on her arrival within the limits of any district of th6 customs of
.tih
United States,

FEBERUARY- TERM i8O.
The vessel, in the case before the Court, as is cones- AIINOL,)
sod by the. phadings, arrived within the limits or the & oTEMns
".
district bf Proviknce, which is about 20 miles, within
the jurisdictional limits of the United States, on the Jst U.STATES.
day of July; and if, in the fiscal sense of the term,, this
cqnstituted'an importation, and the law did not take effect. until the. 2d day of July, the goods so imp ahxd, cannot be subject to the duties imposed by that ict. We are
aware of the decision of the Court, in 1810; in fihe case
of the UhitedSlates c. VowPU S .MClean, in 5 Crancl.
The distinction there taken by the counsel for the Defendants, between a dishtict and aport of entrj, is recognized by the Court as correct. The Court say, " the
" duties did not accrue, in the fls'al sense. of the term.
"until the vessel arrived at the port of entry."
But with great deference we contend that the time of
importation,'even in the fiscal senise of the term, is not
ascertained merely by the entry of the mastvr, or of the
owner or consignee at the custom house, but by the arri-al of the vessel in the United States, or within the limits
of some place in the United States, designated by law.
Whether this place be a port of enlrqi, strictly so callcd;
or a district, the master and owueP have time givein them
by law, within which, after such arrival, they are allowed t make their entries at the custotn house. Suppose
the vessel, in this very casei had arrived at the port of
Providence, on. the 30th day'bf June, at twelve o'clock
the master, would be allowed, until twelve o'clck the
next day, to make his first report to the collector, and
he would not be obliged to exhibit a manifest of his cargo, before. .8 hours after his arrival,.which would not bo
until the 2d day of July; and the owner or consignee is
allowed 16 days, after the final report of the inaster, to
makli his entry, for the purpose of' paying or securing
the duties. As this vessel would then have arrived, before the law passed, she could not be subject to double
duties, although she might not have entered at the custom house, until -afterthe passage of the law. There is,
therefore, . material distinction betweeil importatiodand
entr. "When a vessel, bound to the United Sta es, with
a cargo, has once arrived within certain known and specified limits; when she has once passed the line of demarcation fixed by law, then, at least, if not before,
must the, goods ii such vcssel beconsjlered a legadLY

SUPREME COURT V. S,
ARNoLD
and fiscally imported, and subject to all the provisiong
& OTHERS of law, relative to the -sccurit" of duties upon them,
v.
The limits of a collection district are particularly desigU.STATES.

nated by law.

In every district, there is one, and but

one port of entry,. but in many of them, there are several
ports of deli'verij. These ports, however, whether of en'try or delivery, have no limits fixed or designated by

law.
*When a vessel has arrived, i within the limits of any
cc district of the United States," she is under the' com-

plete control of the government, and she cannot depart
from such district, ,,unless.to livoceed to some more in,,teriol' district," before a report or entry shall be mado
by the master, with the cd!lector of sonie district, under
the penalty of S100, and the custom house ifficers and
commanders of the revenue cutters; are authorized to arrest and bring back, any vessel attempting to depairt
from such district, &c. r'ivs
Vitd Slates, vol. 4, §
29. p. 3-6.) The provisions of the next succeeding section, viz. section SOthfp. 327, are, t6 thst Niithin 2-4 hours
,,after the arrival of any ship or Vessel, &C.at any port
,,)fthe Unitel States, established by law, at %Nhichan
"fofficer of the customs resides, the master is to make
,,a report of his arrival," and within 48 hours, is to
make a further report in waritin , with a manifest of tho
cargo, &c. It is certain, that the. word "'port" mention.
ed in this section, must be applicable to a port of delivery, at which a surveyor of the customs resides, as well
as to a port of entr~y, at which the collector of the district resides.
And, wheth'er the master, according to this section, is
obliged within 4.8 hours, after his arrival within the
limits of a district, to make report and entry to the collector of such district, or within 48.hours, after.his a 'r
rival at some parlicularpo)t, in such district; still after
the arrival of a vessel within thf- limits of such districty
she cannot depart from the same, unless to an interior
district, until the master has made a report, and exhibited a manifest if her cargo. to the collector of.such dis1trict. And after such manifest has been exhibited to the
collector, she is not peimitted to depart froni such dis-'
trict, witli the W'hole or any part of her cargo, eithell to
a foreign port, of t afty other district,'until bonds are

FEBRUARY TERlI

iM5.

1i

given for the due entry and delivery of the goods, which A .oL
are destined for another district, or if the goods are des- & OTH.US
V.
tined for a foreign port, that they "fshall not be landed
"in thi United States, unless due entry thereof shall U.STATES.
"thave been first made, and the duties thercu on paid or
"csecured to be paid, according to law." (7'tde 32, 3S
tk. 3! sections, pages 331--3--S 4" .) If the goods are
intended for exportation, they must be so reported in
the manifests, and then the vessel importing them, may
proceed cfrom the district, within which such ship or
itvessel shallfirstarrive'"'&c. on giving b-nd, as abov
If the goods or any part of them are
stated (sect. 3-2.)
destined to any other district, the vessel, in which they
were brought, may proceed to such other district, on
such .conditions, as are specilied in the S-th sertiod.
'This section declares,' "6that before any ship or vessel
ishall depart from the district, in which she shall first
"arrive, foranotheil district, (provided such. departure
be n-,t within os hours after her arrival within sud
"district) with goods, &c. brought in such ship from a
,, foreign port or place, &c. the master, &e. shall obtain
"from the collector of the district, from which she shldl
-,be about to depart, a copaj of the report and manifest
-. made by such, master," &c. Then the word district is
used, and not polt; and the proviso seems to shew, pretty clearly, that within 48 hours after the arrival of a
vessel, within -a district, a report and manifest must be.
made to the collector of such distrit.
And when a vessel departs with goods from one district to any other. district, the master is obliged within
4 twenty-four'hours after the arrival of such ship ,%ithin
"t any other district, so to mbike report or entry, to or
i"with The collecr Qf such othir district," &c. &c.
(&e page.385, sect. 04.) The condition of tl bonds, in
both cases, shew that the goods are considered as imported into the district, And not into particular ports, and
that the -bonds are given to secure the payment of the
duties upon thein in case they should be landed in ny
other pot of the United States. With regard to importation, the -words of the condition are, "whereas the
o6 follo ;ing goods, &c. imported into the district of." &c.
In the case of tke. United States o. Vowel aitd MII an,
the Court say, the vessel must arrive atthe port of entry,
before the. duties accrtued. If by an arrival at aport of
.15
VOL. IX

SUPREME COURT U. S.
AivoLNl
entry, is meatit that a vessel must actually go to a port
& OTHERS of entry as established by law, before a right to the du.
V.
ties can attach or an entry can be made by the master
U.STATES. or owner, the position is believed to be incorrect.; as by
the 19th section 'of the collection law, a vessel'dcstined
to a port of delivery, in many of the districts, may go
directly to such a port of delivery, without even touchIng at a f ort of entry, and the master and owner, may
afterwards'enter the vessel and camo, and pay or secure
the duties, with the collector at the port of entry in such
'district, without taking the vesseLor cargo to such port
of entry.

The provisions of all the sections of the law fNom the
25d to the 35th inclusive, relate principally, if not solely,
to the conduct of the master, or person having charge of
the vessel, with a r'argo bound to the United States;
anfd that the object of all the prvisions in these sections,
is to ascertaiii the amount and kind of goods, which ho
has imported, is to prevent their being unladen, without
the assent of the government.
If the vessel' be ownedin whole or in part by a citizen
of the Unit d Stat.s, the master is to have a manifest
orthe cargo on board ; a cbpy of this matifest, must be
delivered tQ an officer of the customg, if within four
leagues of the coast; a like copy must be delivered to. an
officer of the customs, after his arrival within the limits
of any district,'and a 'certificate of such officer is to b6
entered on the original manifest; the last copy is to bo
sent to the collector of the district in which such vessel
bas arrived, and 'the original manifest certified by such
officer, must be delivered to such collector by the mas,
te', or he must make oath, that no such.copy had been
applied for, &c.. (See 25th.secti-m, page 32-2) and the
master is finally to deliver to the collector of the district'
under oath, a manifest containing the partioulars of tho
cargo on board; and after this has been done bythe m.aster, the owners or consignees of goods thus impo'ted, are
t4 come forward and pay or ccpre the duties upon
them ; and for this, purpose are. to make a particular.
entry of such parts of the cargo, as are owned by or
consigned to them. The form of thiias'ntry is given in
the 86th sec. of the law. and is headea., by the Nyords - -

"6entry afmnJee-handizoimported b~y," &c.

FEBRUARY TERM 1815,
The complete control "ofthe government over the yes- AmnoD
sel, from the monent of her arrival within any district, & OTERS
is shewn by the 53d section of the law, puge 3 5. This
V.
section provides ", that it shall be lawful for the collec- u.STATES,
66 ter of any district in which any ship or vessel may ar6c
rive and immediately on her first coming -within such
of district, &c. "to put on board-such ship or vessel,
6c hiLvst remaining "within such district, or in going
",from one district to another. one or more inspector, to
" examine the'cargo, &c. and to perform such' other du.
- ties," &c, ,cfor the better securing the collection of
i' the duties."'
4. The bond was taken under the former impost lay
as stated in the plea, 4nd accordingly was an explicit con.
tract for such duties'as that !aw imposed and no other;
and whatever claim the Plaintiffs may have for double
duties, no more-than the single duties ought to he re.
covered on this bond,
If any duties are to be paid, on account of the import.
ed articles, beyond the tariff dstablished by the former
impost-law, they are not recoverable in this action on
the bond given, under that law; but recourse must-be
had to some other process for the recovery of such fur.
ther duties.
The sureties (and. in this case two of the Defendants
are sureties) will not be made liable beyond the responsibility which.they expected on entering into the obligation. They epected to be holden for no mor6 than the
duties under the .forffer impost law ; and the proceedings on the pqtrof government wai.'anted that expects"
tion. The time 'ofgiving the bond, the district where
it is tajken and the.penal sum,, being rather less than
the amount of double duties, is now demanded, .evince
conclusively, that the bond, with its condition was not
for double duties, but for the single duties,
Every argument, which can be urged for a demand of
double duties, inay-be urged with equal force, and far
more apparent equity to sustain some other process, in
-hich the sureties would not be subjected to the peculiar
.haredshipof being compelled to hay double duties, for

SUPREME COURT U. S.
.A2OTM which they coulA hahre no idea of being responsiblep
& OTaERS .hen. the bond was given.
VWITA-TES.

This view of the case is according to the essential
facts admitted by the pleadings. On the 2d of July,
i8il, after the imported articles had been properly inspected, the amount of duties was ascertained and indorsed on the bond 'in the collector's office. Tile indot~swment was expressed in these terms - amount of
6c duties ascertained as due, 1708 doll. 38 cents." Bond
for securing, the duties being required before granting
apermit.to land the articles from tile importing vessel,
a gross estimate of the amount of duties only, could be
made.at the mo.oent of taking the bond, (see section 49,
page 359-60) and that estimate was L700 dollars as
mentioned in the condition.
When the articles had been tuly inspected, eftei the
permit to land, and after return of such inspection, (see
'age3)1-2) but not before, the duties could be and
were ascertained in the regular course at the collector's
offce. The precise am6unt of duties was then ascetftained according to the former impost law) and
found to be 1708 dollars and 38 cents, and was so
indorsed on the bond according to known provisions
of law. Shall that indorsed amount be tle measure
of the demand on the bond? After the duties had
been so ascertained and indorsed on the 2d of July, if
a deposit -of goods, (according to sec. 12, page 382-3)
hd been made for securing the amount of the duties for
which the bond hid been given,.what would have been
the measure for determining the sufficiency of such security ? It was lawful for the collector, in lieu of sureties to accept of a deposit of so much of the goods, as
should in his judgment, be sufficient. And this deposit,
from the nature of the case. was to, be received only after
the articles had been landed, and consequently after the
amount of duties was regularly ascertained. The dep6sit, therefore, must have been for securing the specific sum of 1708 dolls. ahd 38 cents, and only that sum
when due could, by lawbe charged for duties to bepaid
from the proceeds of the deposited goods.
In the present case) there is no question about the
fairness of the proceedings at the custom house. The

VEDRUAIrr wERM 1815.
wbole transaction was according to the regular cour

orml.oLD

of business. Whatever was uncertain in the condition& oTHnzn
W.
of the bond, was reduced to certainty by the idorsezent; and thefuil extent of the obligation was then set- p.STATEs.
tled by fair agreement of the proper agent on the part
of the United States. That extent of coulrse would be
the measure of pledges to sureties. Such extent would
measure the charge for duties on the part of a consignee, who might be principal in a bond. And if the
consignee were ordered uy an owner, who made the shipments abroad, to se'! promptly and pay over the proceeds of sales, the whole might be completed and all accounts between them closed at a place remote from the
seat of government, such as New Orleans, before any
knowledge could there be had, of the act for imposing
double duties. All the official information and proceedings within tlhe district bad united to assure him of freedom from all duties or customs, on paying the amount
required according to the former impost law.
In such a case, to exact double duties from a consignee,
who had entered the goods at the custom house, would be
manifest injustice. It would operate as fraud or extortion or both. Is it for this Court to believe the legislature capable of intendingsuch wrong?
But where is the difference in principle between such
a case and the case now before the Court. New Orleans
is not the only district where imported articles might
be sold by a consignee, or by the owner himself, under
such a full conviction of being liable to single duties only, and without a possibility of just compensation or redress, if the government may afterwards surprize him
by exacting double duties. if a liability to double duties were known to an owner, at the time of making entry, lie might choose to have the articles entercd for
exportation according to the terms allowed by the general law relative to the collection of duties on imposts.
But this privilege might be taken away, by the construction, under which the double duties are demanded
in the present case.
The intent of the parties gives a rule'for aecision in
cases of contract. At the date of this bond. was it mrn-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
A*nORxLD

tually intended to secure the payment of'double duties?

&-oTHEns No such alligation is found in the pleadings; nor is

v.
such intention to be fairly inferred from the admitted
r.STATFS. facts. On the contrary, the intention fairly understood
on each side, was to decure the payment of the single
duties only as icquired under the former impobt law.
And thii intention is apparent filom the penal sum of
the bond, with the gross estimate of duties as mentioned
in the condition, and the ascertained amount of duties
indorsed on the bond.
As the wijle transaction at the collector's office is
agreed to have been fair, the fact of that indorsement
is'decisive to prove, that with reference to the district
where the goods wore entered and, delivered, no rule of
duties on imposts. had been made known, other than the
former impost law. ' And the general principle of all la,
r~quires the rule to be prescribed or made known befort it can be obligatory, To this principle Blackstonb
has reference in the first and fourth volumes of his commentaries. It is true, he has said, Ignorantiajurisquod
1pisqpe tenetur scire, neminem excusat, And ris he has
stated, as a maxim of the Roman, as well as of the English law. But,'according to him, the possibility of
lknowledge is esential to the obligation of knowing the
laiv. To enforce any positiv: rule as a law, before the
individual could be iiresumed to know it, would be alike
inconsisent with public justice and civil right.
Indeed, this qualification relative to the opportdnity
and consequent presumption of knowledge, is so essential that the statement might otherwise be questioned as
deficient in accuracy. Fur the maxim, in terms as stated by Blackstone, is not iound in the text of the Pandests.indicated by 'his note of reference, (4, 3ackstone
Com. page 27,) nor does that text warrant the position
stated by Blackst .no as a maxim, unless it be considered as applicable to the case of a law, which might be
known by every one, and which, therefore, every oile
is holden to know, and this may be deemed the fair im.
port of the Latin terns, in which the position is stated.
If so considered, and not otherwise, it agrees with the
general doctrine of the Roman law, and is a principle
of universal jurisprudence.

FEBRUARY TERM [8i.
In relation to positive law, that principle implies the AMOLD
necessity of ita being made knot n, before it can impose & oTnrl
any obligation. Positive law is a manifestation of the
v.
legislative ,ii1i; and although there may b!a legiplative u.sT.TES.
will, it does not become a law, where it is not manifested.
There was no argument on the part of the United
States.
Feb. 234. *.bsea....ToDD, J.
STOILY,

. delivered the opinion of the Court as

follows:
The United States brought an action of debt gaint
tha Defendants on a bond given forthe payment of duties on goods imported in the brig Dover into the
port of Providence.
Up'on the pleadings in the Court bhebw, judgment was
given in favor of the United States, and the Defendants
have brought the present writ of error to reverse that
judgment
The material facts are, that the brig arrived within the
limits of the United States on the 30th day of June, 1812;
and within the collection district of Providence, on the
first day of July, i812. On the second day of July, an
entry was duly made at the custom house and the prsent bond was then executed.
The principal question which has been argued is,
Wvhether on these facts the goods are liable to the payment of the double duties itposed by the act of the first
day"ofJuly, 18M2, ch:..12. That act, pro.rides "that an
9,additional duty of 100 per cent. upon the permavientdu" ties now imposed by law, &c. shall belevied and collected
c,upon all goods, wares and merchandize$ which shall,
"from and after th, pas ing of this act, be imported int9
66 the United States from any foreign port or place."
It is contended that this statute did not take effect unti;
the second day of July; nor indeed until it was formally
p~romulgated and published. We cannot yield assent
to this construction. The statute vas to take effect

120

SUPREME COURT U. S.

AE&ovi
from its passage; and It is a 'general rule that where
oTi'EiRs the computation is to be madefrom an act done, the. day

IV.

on which the act is done is to be included.

U.STATES.

It is further contended that the importation was complete by the arrival of the vessel within the jurisdictional
limits of the United States, on the thirtieth day of June.
We have no difficuity in overruling this argument. To
constitute an importation so as.to attach the right to du.
ties, it is necessary not only that there should be an arrival within the limits of the United States, and of a
collection distict but also within the limits'of some port
of entry. Thig was expressly decided in the case of tho
United State6 v. Vowell, 6 Cranch, 368.
Without therefore adverting to the consideration of
the regularity or sufficiency of the pleadinA we are all
of opinion that on the merits the judgment must be -affirmed.
Judgmen.t affirmed "withsixper cent. damages and cbsts.

THE ST. LAWRENCE, W BB,

1815.
b.

MASTEU.

(, f'Gregor and Penniman Claimants.)

god,

Absent....TODD, ..
It; upon the ,

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Courf
district of New Hampshire, condemning the ship

breakingotof fr the

awarwith
this ecp
St. Lawrcfice
country, our
e ti
uers
except those

and cargo. All the claims' in this case,
of .!iGregor and Penninian for certain
tith- parts of the cargo, were settled at the last term, v-1

right to
draw their
property frot
the eneny's
enuatry, it
mnust be done

within a
sonable
Eleven

No further proof laving been produced, the case was

.. submitted to the Court without argument.

time.

,ionthis arter
thiC lecla'atzotl
of war is too

lat,

with regard to these further proof was ordered.
r

February25th. aqbsent....ToDD, .
SToRY, J. delivered the opinion of the Court Lq follows:

