388

SUPREME COURT U. S.

York for adjudication. Pending tile prize proccedlngs,
the goods were sold by an interlocutory order of the District Court, and the proceeds brought into the registry.
Upon the hearing, the property was decreed to be restored to the claimants without payment of duties ; and
this decree was afterwards affirmed in the Circuit Court.
The cause has been brough't, by appeal, to this Court
for a final decision.

TRE
33RIG
PONCORD,

AITLOR,
31USTER.
----

We are all of opinion that the proprietary interest of
tiue claiindntg is completely proved ; and therefore the
decree of restoration must be affirmed,
With respect to the duties, we are all of opinion that
the decree of the Courts below was erroneous. Where
goods are, brought by superior force, or by inevitable nocessity, into the United States, they are not deemed to
be so imported, in the sense of the law, as necessarily to
attach the right to duties. If, however, such goods ai'o
ffterwards sold or consumed in the country, or incorporated into the geperal mass of its property, they become
retro-actively liable to the payment of duties. In the
present case, if the goods had been specifically restored,
and afterwards withdra;wn from the United States by the
Claimants, they would have been'exempt from duties.
But having been sold, by order of the Court, for the gencr al benefit, the duties indissolubly attached, and'ought
to have been deducted from the proceeds by the Courts,
below. The decree in this resnect must be reversed.'

THeE 'NEREIDE, BJ[ENNnTT,
MIach

MAST

4 R.

6th.

AJbsent....ToDD, 3.
THIS wa an appeal by Mfauel Pinto, from the sentence of the Circuit Court for the distriot of New York,
affirming (proformc) tile sentence of the District Court

which condemned
that part of the cargo which was
.
iy," that free claimed by him.

The gpul.
t

in k7+ea-.

"ships shall

9' make free
1' go"
doe

pat imply

The facts of the case are thus stated by the chief
the justice in deliveing tte opinion of the Court.

FEBRUARY TEIi

10i5.

xim
Manuel Pinto, a native of Buenos Ayres, being in
London, on tile 26th of August, i8i3, entered into a con- x"awxixo,
tract with John Drinkald, owner of the ship" ,'ereide," Eh-Nr.Tw,
whereof William Bennett was master, whereby the said 1ASTEA...
Drinkald let to the said Pinto the said vessel to freight
pr
cnverc
for a.voyage to Buenos
tian trot
. ... A yres. and back again to London, p
on the conditions mentioned in the charter party. The ,, enem thit
owner covenanted that the said vessel, being in all re-,"w
m k6
spects sea-worthy, well manned, victualed, equipped, "'enem
provided, and furnished with all things needful for such The tmta vessel, should take on board a cargo to be provided for wthSpand, s
nitcontnin, cl
her, that the master should sign the customary hills of the.
rep11
lading, and that tile said ship being'laden and dispatched, or by irmitzashouldjoin and sail ivith the first convoy thatshouli de- .i., tat
part from Great Britain for Buenos Ayres: that on his enemy zwP3
arrival the master
dt mecn.
.... should give notice thereof to thie emy
da
agents or assigns of the said freighter, and make delive- lie pri
ry of the dargo according to bills of lading ; and that or etaldt:,
the said ship, being in all-respects sea-worthy, manned, nrule of
&c. as before mentioned, should take and receive on deeldnin the
nt..
..
board at Buenos Ayres all such lawful cargo as they ju,,ela
should tender for that purpose, for which the master States.
Anetral-ane
bills of lading:
should sign the customary
ema.
. " and the lawfully
•
ship being laden and dispatched, should sail and make ., an 'm
the best of her way back to Londen, and on her arrival be emnt
deliver her cargo according to the bills of lading. For "I I "
unloading the outward and taking in the homeward carhoods
la=
days, and for do notneutnrlt
go, the owner agreed
'thiLr
" o,
"
" to allow go running
unloading the return cargo, 5 running days. .he owner tharacter by
also agreed that the freighter and one-other person whom thearrnent,
he i ight appoint should have their passage without be- nr y the reiag chargeable therefor. In consideration ofthe premises by w herA.,
PrOde
cause to he sent along' side
the freighter agreed to
.
neutraJl (10t naO
• send,or
"of the ship, such lawful goods as he might have to shipt ai insuch -r.
mamet cr -ite
others, and dispatrh her therewith res-iance,
or could procure from ....
in time to join andsail with the first convoy, and on her
h
arrival at Buenos Ayres to receive the cargo accordin.g ,tier the

to bills of lading, and afterwards to send along side ofb

o

the ship a return cargo and dispatch her to London,,end burd at the
on her arrival receive the car.go according to bills of ti"e or the
lading, and to pay freight as follows, viz. for the outward cargo 7001. together with five per cent. primage,
tobe paid on signing the bills of lading, and for the homeward, or return cargo, at the rate mentioned in the
charter party. He was also to advance the master at

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Buenos Ayres, such tnoney as might he necessary fore
disbursements on the ship. It was provided tlat all the
freight of the outward cargo, except on the goods lielongMASTEIZ. ing to the freighter, which should not exceed 4001.

TUB
?-EREIDE,
ETT,

should be received by the owner on the bills of lading be.
ing signed ; and in case of, the loss of the ship such
freight should be his prbperty ; but if she arrived safe
back with a full cargo, then the freiglteP sho~ri be credited for, the excess of the said freight over and above
the sum of 7001. A delay of 10 running days over and
above the time stipulaied is allowed the freighter, le
paying for such demurrage at the rate of 101 los per day.
Under this contract a cargo, belonging in part to the
freighter, in part to other inhabitants' of Buenos Ayres,
and in part to British subjects, was taken on board the
Nereide, and she sailed under convoy some time in November, 1813.
Ber license, or passport, dated the 16th of November,
states- her' to mount 10 guns and to be monned by i6
mncII.

The letter of instructions from the owner to the master
is dated on the 2-1-th of November, and contains this passage: cc Mr. Pinto is* to advance you what money you
requim-fo~slip's use at River Plate, and you will con-sider yourself as under his directions so far ais the
i charter party requires."
On Vhe voyage, the Nereide was separated from hot'
Ponvpy, and on the 19th of Decenibei, 1813, Ven in
sight of Madeira, fell in with, and after an action of
about fifteen minutes, vas captured by the Anerican
privateer -The Governor Tompkins." She was brought
into the port of New York, where vessel and cargo were
libelled ; and the vessel and that part of the cargo which
belonged to British subjects were condemned without a
claim. That part of the cargo which belonged to Spaniards was claimed by Manuel'Pinto, partly for himself
and partners) resfding in Bueios Ayres, and Tartly for
the other owners residing in the same place. On the
hearing, this part of the cargo was also condemned. An
appeal was taken to the Circuit Court,where the sentence

FEBRUARY TERDI 1805.
of the District Court was affirmed, proforia, and from
that sentence an appeal has been prayed fo this Court.
HorE3w, af NYew York,for A .Sppellant.
It is true this vessel was armed, but Pinto had no
agency in arming her. She was an armed vessel as
early at least as May, It8ii, before the War between the
United States and Great Britain. It is ti'ie site sailed
with convoy, but this she was obliged by law to do. It
is true also 'that she resisted the capturing vessel; but
neither Pinto, who was a passener on board, nor any
other neutral passenger, gave any aid in the engagement,
The claim of Pinto, in behalf of himself, his father
and sister, who were jointly °interested with him in tho
busimss which he carried on in his own name, was or
three descriptions of goods.
:1st. Of goods of which they were the sole owners.
2d. Of goods of which they owned one undivided moxety, the other being owned by British merchants.
3d. Of goods in which they claimed an interest of
one-fourth, the residue being British property.
As to this last claim he is charged with inalafides, lip-cause in his examination in preparatbri he stated without qualification that he*Wei the owner of one-fourth part
of those goods, whereas in his claim and test affidavit le
states the fact to be that lie had agr'eed with certain 1ritish merchants, that if they would give him I0per cent.
npon the sales, lie would select for them such goods as
would sell, at Buenos Ayres, at an advance of 150 per
cent. upon their cost and charges ; that lie selected these
goods under that contract ; that his commissions would
have amounted to one-fourth of the original cost, and tP
that extent he believed himself interested therein:
There was no attempt to impose upon the C'ourt, he
voluntarily explained the nature of his intcihst; if he
was mistaken as to the legal effect or -such a contract,
.yet'-no improper motive can be attributed to him.

THE
NMn-DE
3MAs5.J-E

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TE
Neither Pinto, nor any person connected withl him,
NERUEIDE, joined in the battle. If he had done so, he might have
'BENNETT, been considered as taking p.rt in the war, and thereby

bXASTER. excluding himself from the protection to which lie is
now entitled by the law of nations. He remained in
the cabin during the whole e ngag.ment, and had no concern whatever in th defence of the ship. It is true that
.be stats upon his examination in preparatorio
,,i that he
- belonged to the ship at the time of her capture, and had
" control of said ship and cargo." But his answers were
written by the commissioner, and le being a foreigner,
probably did not observe the force of the expression.
Tie nature of his control is explained by all the other
circumstances of the case to be a control within the
limits of the charter party. It is'evident he could have
no lawful control over the management of the ship from
the time of her sailing from London until her arrival at
15uenos Ayres. The letter of instructions from the owner of the ship to the master, shows that the master was
under'he dirfction of Pinto so far only as the charter
party reqitiredl
It has been hdretofore said that Pinto bad acquired a
hostile character arising from domicil. There is, however, no ground for such a pretence. It is trte that in the
chart-ir party he is said to be 4, of Buenos Ayres, but
"now residtugiu the city of London ;" and in his examination in preparatorio,he states " that for seven years last
cc past lie has lived and resided in England and Buenos
t .yres." But lie at the same time states thatilhe is a native of Buenos Ayres, that lie now lives there, and has
generally lived there for 55 years, and has been admitted a freeman under the new government of Buenos
Ayres. Even if lie had acquir9d a domicil in England,
which is not true, yet he had turned his back on that
country and was on his voyage home. 5"res. J.Tn. 787
Somerville v. Somerville. Pnto's test affidavit shows
particularly that his birth, residence, and cnnmorcial
establishment had always been at Buenos Ayres, except
during his occasional temporary absences in his commercial -pursuits. The test affidavit is always good evidence
ifi prize causes. The party is obliged to put in his chin
upon oath, and it is to be taken as true until contradicted by better evidence.

FEBRUARY TERM 18111.

393

The Court is now for- the first time called upon to de-

Trne

tide the question whether fieutral property forfeits its z,'Ettmun,
character of heutrality by being put on board an armed isE-iNETT,
ship of the enemy?
MSTEfl.
.Thre generairukl. is that.the property of a friend in a

hostile vessel is not liable to condemnation.
There are but two excentinns to the neutral rilit to
trade.
:I.He shall not carry contraband or war.
2. He-shall not violate a blockade.
If the sailing in an arned vessel of the enemy had
been also an exceptioi, it would unquistionably have
been noticed by some writer upon the l.w of nations.
But no such exception is to be found in the books.
If such be the doctrine, w'hat degree of force will he
sufficient to forfeit the neutral character of the goods ?
If she carried a single musket, the principle must be the
same as if she mounted fifty cannon. And sailing under
convoy would be still more clearly within tha rule.
Vattel, b. s,c. 5, § 75, lays down the general principie thus: "-Since it is not thiplace where a thing is,
"which determines the nature of that thing, but the
"quality of the person to whom it belongs; things, be.:
cc longing to neutral persons, which happen to be in ait
" enemy's country. or the enemy's ships, are- to be disc" tinguished from those belonging to the enemy."
No hint is given that a distinctior isto be takeh between the armed and unarmed ships of the enemy. Agaiu
in b. 3,c. 7,§ 116, lie says, ",the eff'cts of neutrals found
"cin an enemny's ship, are to be restored to the owners,
caca itbst whom there is no right of confiscation." S~e
also Duponced's Byokershoek. 102, 1618. 2 .Xzuni, Mg~.
Chitty, 1Hi. Ward, 21. MVr. JeffersoL's.leter to . Genet,
24th Janu'ary, 1793, among our own state papers, in the
department of state.
This Court will not, in contradiction to all these. au50
VOLi 1X,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TE

thorities, make a new exception to the rights of neutral

The
N.REIn, commerce.
BENNET', to iinpair them.
MASTER.

policy of this country is to extend, not

A neutral aids the belligerent much
more by carrying belligerent.property, than by employing
a belligerent vessel to carry neutral goods; yet the ntett.
tral vessel carrying the bfliigeri-nt goods, is always rest)red, and with freight, unlesb she forfeie her neutral
character by her hostile conduct The neutral character may'be forfeited by fraudulent conduct of the master.by violation of blockade-by carry in. cntraanil go¢.ds-by false destination and by resisting seaich. These
are the only exceptions to the general' ule that the pro.
perty of a friend must be'restored. But there must be
an -actual or an implied connivance between the master
of the vessel, and the neutral owner ot the goods in order
to sulject the neutral cargo to condemnation br the acts of
themater. i Rob. 67,(,an. ed.) th Jlercurius. Id. 130,
the Cohinthia. Id. 277, tw .Tenge "'obias. 5 Rob. 23-9

tl ,Shepherdess. fit the case of the Maria (the Siwedisk
covloy) the merchant vessels had receiVed orders from
the convoy to resist search.

The unneufral character of a nmstel' shall not forfeit
neutral property. on board a neatral vssel. Can you
then punish the innocent neutral for the legal exercise,
by the hostile master of a belligerent vessel, of his rights
of war?

If this property is to be condemned, it must be on the
ground of resistance; for it is understood that it has been
decided by this Court that shipping neutral p.,operty on
board an armed nteutral vessel even, will not subject it
to condemnation. If'resistance be not the ground on
which condemnation is claime, then in a case where
no resistance is ma'ae, if neutral property be found on
board an en6my's ship arm'cd merely for resisting thtv
piratical boats of South Aincrica, it is liable io'con-

demnation.
It is true that a neutral cannot lawfully rescue his
shipcaitured by a belligerent, because iehas redeess
has been improperly copturby'the lawv of nations if fie
ed, 3 Rob. 227 (ln. ed.) the Dispatch. I Rob. 287, the
.3aria. But here the force was not used by a neutral.
''he ship ownpr and the master-were open aiid avim'ed
enemies, and as such had a pefcct right to defend their

FEBRUARY TERDI 1815.
ship by force.

It was a lawful force.

Cathafina,Elizabeth.

5 Bob. 206,

But it will be said that the right to search isimpaired.
The right of search is applicable only tu a neutral ship.
Ifn case of a belligerent ship, the right of search is superseded by the right of capture.. The privateer had a
right to capture the Nereide, but, strictly speaking, had,
no tight to search her. Pinto, by placing his goods on
board a hostile ship, made them certainly liable to captufe, although not to condemnation. lie gave us the
right of capture in lieu of the right of search.
The putting of neutral goods on board an armed vessel of the enemy, is analagous to the placing them in a
fortified town. If they are placed there before investment they are not liable to condemnation, ifcapturcd';
but ifplaced there after investment they are liable.
But it will be contended that the fi'teenlh article of the
treaty of 1795, between Spain and the United Sttcs,
(Laws of the United States, vol. :!, p. 526.) hias altered the
rule of the law of nations on this subject, and that neutral Spanish goods found on board an enemy's ship are
liable to condemnation as enemy's goods.
The words of the article are, "cAnd it is hereby stipu,,lated that free ships shall also give freedom to gouds ;
" and that every thing shall be deemed free and exempt
which shall be. found on board the ships belonging to
"the subjects of either of the contracting parties, al- though the whole lading, or any part thereof, should
",appertain to the enemies of either; contraband goods
" being always excepted."
.Itwill be contended, that if free ships make free
goods, enemy's ships must make enemy's goods.
But we contend, that although by the treaty free ships
make free goods, yet the rule of the law of nations still
:remains in full force, that free goods found in an enemy's ship are also free, Nothing but an express stipu.
lation in a treaty can deprive the Spanish subject of his
rights under the law of nations. The treaty cqntains no
such express stipulation. "The article stipulated does

Tim

ERlfEIDE,
IIENNETT
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

not necessarily imply its converse.

WEREIDE, not inconsistent with each other.

BENNETT entitled to the benefit of both.

The two rules are

The n eutral nation ia

Ward, 115.

MASTER.

It some of our treaties will be found express stipulations as to both points ; in others as to one of the points
only; which fact shows that the two propositions are not
considered as inseparable. ' The treaty of 1782, with
Holland, adopts both rules-free ships are to make free
goods, and hostile ships, hostile goods. So also does
the convention of 1800 with France. P'ol. 6,appendix,

p. 22.
As to the Spanish ordinance of Spain, cited in 2 zu.
ni, 139,.which declares even the goods of Spanish subfound on board an enemy's ship,
jects to be good prize if'
it is a mere municipal regulation and docs not appear to
have been adopted inpracti e against the citizens of the
United States, even if it were in its terms applicablo
to them.
It is said that Spain would condemn our goods fountd
on hoard her enemy's ships, and therefore, upon the
principle of reciprocity, we ought to condemn her goods
found.on board the ships of our enemy. But the principle of reciprocity applies only 'to the case of salvage.
It is not a rule of the law of nations as to prize of\var.
The proprietary interest of Pinto, his father and sisler, and of the other inercliants of Buenos Ayres in
whose behalf he has interposed a claim, cannot be disputed. Their national character is clearly made out.
Th'e goods are not liihle to forfeiture, either on account
of his residence in London, or the character of the ship,
or the opposition which she made, or by the treaty of
Spain; or the principle of reciprocity. They ought
therefore to be restored; and without payment of the
duties, inasmuch as it was not a voluntary importation.
I)ALLAS, conttra,for the captors,
Contended, that there was evidence tending to show
that Pinto, had caused the ship to be armed, and had
caused sundry British passengers to be taken on board,
That lie had acsome of whom fought in tdin battfh.

FEBRUARY TER

isiS.

quired aBritish character bydomicil; and that he had not TnU
renounced that character by turning his back on Eng- rEnigmE.
land, inasmuch as he meant to return.

DI.nNTZT,
MfASTLnM

That Pinto must be considered as the owner of the
vessel for the voyage, and as having a control overhPm regard to her resistance.
He admitted that neutrals have a right to carry on their
accustomed trade in the usual manner; and to employ the
mnerchant vessels of the enemy for that purpose; but
not to arm a hostile vessel, nor to hire a hostile vessel
already aimed.
He divided his argument into three points:
-..
That the property cannot be restored .without further proof, both on the subject of domicil and. on that of
proprietary interest. And that, -under the circumstances
of this case, Pinto is not entitled to time for further
proof.
9 . That by force of the treaty between Spain and the
United States, taken in connexion with the existing law
of Spain, the property is liable to condemnation.

S. That a neutral connot lawfully hire gn armed vessel of our enemy, and in the course of that trade engage
in battle with th- Uniter:States.
:. As to further proof respecting ixis doinicil.
In his examination ih preparatorohe states, that for
the last seven years he resided in England and Buenos
Ayres. This fact stood unexpla;ined upon the record
for nearly a month. He then states in his test affidavit
that he was then a-resident of Buenos Syres, where he
had generally resided for 35 years; but says nothing
In eqplanation of his former assertion, that he had resided
the last seven years in England and Buenos Ayres. Why
did he not state how long he had resided in each place?
This leaves a doubt, which the Court would permit him
to explain;if he stoud fair in Cour4 The charter party
!lso states him fu.be then a resident in England.

-

398
Tl
NEREIDE,
vZiNETT,

MASTER.

SUPREME COURT. U S.

Then as to his proprietary interest, lie thst swears
that lie is the sole owner; but afterwards conttadicts
himself, and says he made a mistake, and that his father
and sister are jointly interested with him in the property. Again, lie first states the printing aparatuj to be his
property, and afterwards admits that it.ihelonged to
-Britishsubjects.
Witl regard to the one-fourth which he claimed of
sundry parcels of goods, he first swears that it belongs
to him absolutely, and afterwards states that lie was only
entitled to a commission upon the sales of them. So
also with regard to an invoice of buttons, lie first claimed
them as his own, 4nd afterwyards disclaimed them as Bri-

tish property.
Again his testimony is cqntradicted by Fitzey, his
confidential clerk, who testifies that part or tme property
claimed by pinto,,belonged to the government of Buenos
.,yres.
It is certain then that the evidenqe is not clear in his
favor, as to his domicil, and as to his proprietary interest.
Is lie entitled to further prof
lie has lured an armed vessel of the enemy whili has
fought an American vessel, and would have cal)tured
her if she had been able. There is no case in which
restitution has been awarded under surh circumstances,
Suprose an American frigate had captured a British
frigate laden with specie belonging to the Spanish government, would it lhtve Been restored ? Hor, was it in
the case of the Peacock-and the Epervier ?
Pinto chartered the wjhole.ship. He permitted every
thing to be put on hoard; the hostile.property as well as
the neutral. He was to receive freight for the hostilo
property, and a higher freight on account of the, armament. He knew that if this armament was employed to
protect the nrutral property it would protect the hostile
also. lie impliedly undertook that the enemy's property should be protected. He was therefore interested in
so doing, and identified his interest with that 'of the
belligerenL The armament was clearly intended to he
used against the Americans, as all the cruizers of Franpe

FEBRUARY TERM i8iS.
had been driven from the ocean, and never appeared in Toz
those southern latitudes.
NEREXID,
nENl~ETT,

He says in his examination that he was interested in MASTER.
the vessel and cargo and freight; and in a subsequent
answer he states that he had the control of the ship ane
cargo. It is clear therefore that he participated in the
belligerent character, and is not entitled to further proof.
See 6 Rob. 460, the Atlantic.
2. As to theeffect of the Spanish treaty, in connexion
with the existing law of Spain.

The trety says that cc free ships shall make free
goods." This implies the converse proposition that hostile ships shall make hbstile goods.
This treaty followed the memorable discussion which
took place between this government and Genet, in 1793.
At that time w6 had a treaty with Prussia, f2 Vol.Laws
.S. 308, art. 2.) which contains the same stipulation
that free ships shall make ffee.-oods; but is sirent as to
the converse proposition. The two treaties are to'be
construed alike. Genet complained that we permitted
the British t take Frendi goods out of our vessels. Mr.
Jefferson was one 'of the negotiators of that treaty, and'
it is clear that he understbod it .simplying that enemy
ships should make enemy goods. See his letters as secretary of state to Mr. Genet, of 24th Jul+, 1793, and to
Mr. Morris of the 16th of August,'i793. The administration of our government constituted, at that time, per-

haps as wise acabinetas ever existed. This t6caty was
their act. The .proper construction mist be that the
eonverse rule is implied. Ward, 1" -05.
But when the treaty is taken in connexion" with the
existing law of Spain at the time of making the treaty,
there can be no doubt. By that law enemy ships make
enemy goods. 2. .Azuni 139. The lMr. Debron there
mentioned was a Spaniard. There were two ordinances
onein 1701, the other in :ZI8. They are referred to in
2. Yalin, 252. b. S. tit. 9. art. 7. As to these ordinances, it is-singular that they do not say that the goods of
a friend In an enemy'sship shall be liable to confiscation;
but that the goods of a Spanish subject in an eremy's ship

SUPREME COURT V. S.
Tmm
sznzDEE,

shall he so liable. This however implies the other propo.
siti6n ; for if the goods of their own subjects were so liathe goods of a friend would, a fortiori, be liable.

BENNET,ble,

MASTEN.

It is said that these ordinances have not been enforced
against im. But we are not bound to show thatfact. It
is sufficient for us that the law exists.
Reciprocity is the permanent basis of the law of nations.
3. If a neutral hire an armed vessel of our ebemyp
and with armed force resist our belligerent rights, he
forfeits his neutrAl character.
A neutral may pursue his accustomed trade 'inhid
usual manner ; but the law of nations allows nothing
further.
It has been said that the only test of neutrality is impartiality to the belligerents. This is true only in a national point of view. But when individuals are concern'd,.a very different test applies. (See the case of the
Tulip.) A neutral cannot justify furnishing one belligcrent with transports, by furnishing them to the otker
also. ('ee Vattel, b. S. eh. 7. § 109. l10, where will be
tund the whole doctrine of the law of nations on this

subject.)

The general rule is that nothing qhall be done by a
neutral to invigorate the belligerent.
A right of peacefuf commerce is not a right to set
forth a warlike expedition. On that principle a govern.
ment might be neutral and all. its subjects, belligerent.
The words'of the elementary writers are to be constru.ed according to.the subject upon which they treat. They
all speak of a peaceable merchant vessel, not an armed
vessel.
Neutrals, says sir W. Scott, may trade in the samne
mnannr as before the -war,provided they take no direct
part in the contest. It is not necessary to show that
the party actually put a match to the guns. This vessel was forced intar action by Pinto ; at all events sh6

FEBRUARY TERM 18i5.
was brought into action by means of Pinto.
direct part in the contest.

Tam

He had a

NERI.3DE,
3Lr"ixETT,

The authority cited from Bynkershoek, is in our fa- NXAST'R.
Tvor, if we interpret the words according to the subject
matter. He says a neutral may let as well as hire a
vessel, but it must be a lawful letting and hiring. He
did not mean to say that a neutral rhay carry on a peaceful trade in a hostile manner. In the next sentence he
says you may employ the vessel and the labor of the belligerent.
it is clear that he means an unarmned vessel.
What are the rights of the belligerent in regard to
the neutral
lie may searchthe vessel, the cargo and the papers.
We have reason to complain'of a neutral who puts a
cargo like tlis (a great part being belligerent) on board
a belligerent armed vessel, whereby our right of search.
is eluded,. without a battle. A icutral may, indeed, if
he can, elude the riglt of search by superior sailing, but
ie cannot lawfully prevent it by force.
In the case cited from S Rob. 906, there is not evidence
that the vessel was-armed. If the fact had been so it
would undoubtedly -have been mentioned by th6 reporter,
or the judge; Their silence shows that it was not
armed.
The slightest recourse to belligerent force in support'
of neutral rights is fatal. A neutral vessel may armi
but she cannot resist belligerent rights. A neutral must
not directly nor indirecty contribute to the force of aii
enemy. In I Rob.287, the .Maria,it is decided that resistance of the convoy ship is the resistance of the whole onvoy; and that the resistance of the ship affects the cargo.
In the case of the ELtsebe, 5 Rob. 171, (Dig. Ed.) one of the
questions was whether the cargoes, belonging to subjects
of the Hans Tounts, laden on board SwCdish vessels, and
gailing under Swedish convoy, were liable to condemnation ? the-convoying ships having resisted search by the
Britiqh fleet. It was contended on their behalf that they
were not involved in the penalties of Swedish resistance,
5t
VOL IX.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
which was an act of the Swedish government, and didJ
THFB
IqEREIDE, not bind the subjects of other powers,; that the propriHENNETT, tors of these cargoes were not privy to this fact ; and
MASTER. that the masters of the vessels were not the agents of the
cargoes, so as to bind them. Sir William Scott, after
stating that there was in the'charter party an express
stipulation that the, ship should sail with convoy, sa.,ys,
" But I will take the case on the supposition that there
" was no such engagement. The master associates him" self with a convoy, the instructions 'of which ho must
,, be supposed to know ; he 1us the goods under wlawfid
"cprotection, and it must be presumed that this is 1ione
i with due aixthority from the owners, and for their bei nefit. It is not the case of an unforeseen emergency
- happening to the shil at sea, where the fact itself
i proves the owners to be ignorant and, innocent ; and
"'where the Court has held, that being proved innocent
" by the very circumstances of.the case, they~shaUI not
" be bound by the mere principle of law which imposes
"on the employer a responsibility for the acts of his
i agent. On the contrary it is a matter done antecedentlj
" to the voyage, and must therefore be presumed to be
- done on communication with the owners and with their
9c consent; 'and the effect of this presumption is such
,, that it cannot be permitted to be averred against ; in
", as much as all the bvidence must come from the 6ug.
sc pected parties theinselves, without affhrding a possi,, bility of meeting it, however prepaied. Tie Court
" has, therefore, thought it not unreasonable to apply
"cthe strict principle of law. in'a case not entitled to any
,, favor) and holds, as it does in blockade cases of that
" description, that the master must be taken 'to bb the
" authorized agent df the cargo, that he has acted under
",powers from his employer, and that if lie has exceeded
cc his authority, it'is barratryi for which he is personal.
" ly answeraWe, and for which the owner must look to
" him for indemnification. I pass over many considerit.
"tions whie have been lroperly pressed in argument;
"t but I cannot omit to observe that this is not merely a.
" question arising on a single fact of limited consequence;
"t it is a pretention of infinite importance, and of great
,, extent, being nothing Ie, titan .an opposition to
"tthe general law of. search, by wlich, if it- ould in
dc one instance be admitted, the whole provisions of the
" law of nations on that hea4 might bq effectually doli-

FEBRUARY TER4 i8i5.
Cc ed ; for if this principle could be maintained, by an
T
q' interchage of cpnvoys the whole unlawful business NEUID.E%
- might be carried on with security. To put the goods 33ENNET
, of one country on board the-ships of another, would mAsTrU.
"be a complete recipe for the safety of the 'goods with

"a trifling alteration, easily understood, and easily
es practiced, while the mischief itself would exist in full
"force."
The same principle was afterwards advanced by the
Danish governmefit in relation to American ships sailing under British convoy, and acquiesced in by the
American government. See the letter from our minis-

ter', Mr. Irtin, to the secretary of state of 23d June,
181t. and the letter front the Swedish minister, Rosenci-ntz. to Mr. Irvin, of the 28th of June, I81. S ate
papers, V. 2 A, 235.
A neutral cannot employ the force of his own govem.
ment, nor tht of another -neutral, much less that of a
belligerent, to protect himseltf froim search. If yon cannot make use of the convoy, you cannot take the g$ins
of that 5c nvoy and protect yourself. It is'not the modification of the. force, bit the force itielf that is unlawful.
If a neutral, insured assuch, range himself under convoy, the policy is vacated.
This case is not like that of neutral goods ]ut into a
fortifie(ttown before investment: it is more like that of
goads placed there after ,investment. They were put on
boird with a full knowledge that the vessel would h(- 11L,vested, (if a land term may be, permitted in speaking of
a naval transaction) that is, that she would be liable to
search.
PnI12~ Y, on the samne siie,
.Contended that this property ought to be condemned
upon three grounds.
±.

The treaty.with Spain.

2. The principle of reciprocity; and,
3. The conduct of Pinto in hiring an armed lcssel of
the enemy, which made resistance

SUPREME COURT U. S.

q
ItEEIDE,
BEN NETT,
MASTIR.
--

1:-As to the ,Spaiiisli treaty. It contains tie stipula..
tion that i,free ships shall tiake free goud," ind it
does not l.e'ative the converse proposition that enemy
ship,0 shall make "eneiny goods. Hence we are at liberty to give ti.e stipulation its full extent hnd scopb.
This principle was first attempted to be established
by Holland immediately after tie treaty of Munster.
They sought to establish by treaty tharthe flag'should
coiimunicate its character to the cargo. This was the
original form of the proposition, It necessarily involyel the principle that hostile ships should make h~stilo
gooils. How preposterous would it be to sqiy that neutr~l ships should make neutral goods, but enemy's ships
should not Make enemy's goods.
It is the universal understanding among nations t hat
the two propositions are mutually connected, and .tho
one implies the other. It might have been necessary in
the outset to express both, but wien. the principld wag
generally understood, that necessity ceased. The Unit.
ted States had no interest in extending' the iange of the
principle; and in all hep treaties,.except tbose ivith
Spain and Pi-ussia, she has stipulated for both parts of
the rule. There is no reason, either in the commercial
br belligerent policy. 6f the United States, which should
induce her to stop short with the proposition, tha.t free
ships'should make free goods, and not go on to adopt
the converse.
Spain had no motive to adopt the principle with the
limitation under consideration. In her treaties with,
Frane,"Holland and England, she adopts the principle
in its whole extent. She took. it.'with lite 'qualifictition'
that neutrals should not put their goods on.board a belligerent vessel. In her treaty with England she ozpresses only the converse, viz: that "enemy ships'sliall
make enemy goods. '
It has bben said that she limited the principle by acceding to the armed neutrality; but that was a more
ephemeral act, and its validity depended upon an event
Whici never happened-the accession of England.
2. As to tbhe aw of Spain and the principle of recio

FEBRUARY TERM Msg5.
procity. In the oroinance of 17,02 it appears to be her
wni
favorite principle that c enwrny ships shaUl make Cnerny xNuB.nn,
goods." In the ordinance of 1718 the same principle is BENN.r,
adopted and ordered to be carried into execution. These MASTE.
ordinances were re-enacted in 1739, 1756, 1779, 1794
and 1796. The treaty now under consideration vas

wedged -inbetween two of these ordinances; those of
179t and 1796. Is it possible that Spain, the, declared
enemy of neutral rights, meant to Tpcognize a principle
like this, which had never before been taken under the
protection of any nation? Are, wve to suppose that
Spain, ly this treaty, meant to abandon her own local
law? Spain has had this principle in abhorrence. By
her ordnance of 1718 she says that if any part of the
cargo is hostile it shall communicate its character to tha
ship and all the residue of the cargo. This princilflo
cannot be undrstood but iji the manner for which we
contend.
By the law of Spain, therefore, this property would
be liable to condemnation.
By the rule of reciprocity it ought to be condemned
here.
But it is objected that the Spanish law has never
been enforced against us. It is sufficient for us to show
that it exists. In the absence of'contrary proof the presumption is that it has been executed.
It is -said also that the rule of reciprocity applies only
to the case of "e-capture and salvage. But sir W.
Scott, in the Santa Cru,

(4 Rob. 53, hin. Ed.) says

that " this principle of reciprocity is by no ueans peco" liar to cases of re-capture: it ib found also to operate
"in other cases of inaritinie law: at the breaking out" of a war it is the constant practice of this country to
"condemn property seized before the wiar, if the enemy
"condemns, and to restore if the enemy restores. It is
" a principle sanctioned by the great foundation of the
d la: of England, magna chartaitself; which prescribes
"cthat at the commencement of a war the enemy's mer,chants shall b6 kept and treated as.our own merchants
",are treated in their country."

SUPREN1E COURT U. S.
rTAL
NEREXDE,
4ENNTT,
WASTER.

The principle of reciprocity has been distinctly re.
Cognized and adopted by the law of Spain. R9gland
remonstrated, but Spain answered that Holland had not
resisted the maritime principles of England.. TtiO s.omn

answer was received from. France when we complained
of the Berlin and Milan decrees. The British orders
in council also iwere founded upon the same prinelio.
Great Britain attempted'to justify them by the assertion that we acquiesced in the Berlin and Milan decrees. The assertion was not true; but it shows tbat
Great Britain acknowledged the rule of reciprocity as
a rule of the law of pations.
3. As to the armament and resistance.
The undisputed facts are that Pinto hired the whole
vessel, and took in goods on freight for his own benefit.
That the vessel was armed, sailed,, resisted, and was
captfired.
It i'cohtended that lie could lawfully do all this. If
lie could, lie was a "cchartered libertine." Cart a lieutral surround himself ,,with all the pomp and circumstance of war ?" The idea of our opponents exhihits a
dis.ordiarertm-an incongruous .mixture of disrordant
attributes; a centaur-like figure-half man, half ship;
a phantastic form, bearin*g in one hand the spear of
Achilles. in the otlier the olive branch of Minerva; the
frown of defiance on her brow, and the smile of conciliation on her lip, entwining the olive branch of pcace
around the thunderbolt of Jupiter, and hurling it, thus
disguised, indiscriminately at friends and foes.
From the authorities cited qn the other side, an inference is attempted to -be drawn that a neutral may
lawfully employ an armed merchant vessel of the enemy to transport his goods. But none of those autlorlties speak of an armed vesssl. Such a vessel unquestionably has power, to mAke captures. If she has a
commission, the captures are for her own benefit; if
she has no commission, she captures for the crown.
Her prizes aro droits of admiralty. It is truo that if she
sails without a pass, or some document to show her natioial chractdr, she would be considered as a pirate;
but this vessel had a British pass. If all neutrqls may

FEBRUARY TERMA si

,x

lawfully hire-such vessels, the ocean may be covered Tr
with them, and they might more effectually aid the ene- -naRlnDE,

my than his own navy.

BENNETT,
31AST-U.

Bynkershoe, says the neutral must do nothing to the
prejudice of the belligerent. It is incumbent, therefore,
upon Pinto to show that he did us no prejudice by chartering such an armed vessel. We say he thereby infringed our right of search. It is said that the right or
search is a right to search the ship only. But why
search the ship? To see what sort of a cargo she has.
The cargo, therefore, must be searched as well as the
ship. A neutral cannot carry contraband goods, nor
violate blockade, nor carry his own property if it be the
produce of his estate in the enemy's country. To prevent this the belligerent has a right to stop and sefrch
his cargo. In this case it is the hostile character of the
vessel which constitutes the offence, in as much as it pl~evented our right of seach.
In the case of the B!sebe the cargo was forfeited by
sailing under convoy which resisted' search. Pinto
fall3 by the fate of war. He identified himself with a
kostile, armament; lie knew the necessary consequence
of his act; he knew it would be the duty of the ship to
resist; and that resistance would be made if there
should be any chance of escape thereby. He must be
either at peace or war. Ho cannot claim the advantages of both conditions at the same time.
E

ETT, in reply,

After removing the oltjections which had been raised
as to the British domicil of Pinto, and as to some variations between his testimony in preparatorioand his test
affidavit, &c. ohs'rved,
As to the treaty with Spain, that the maxim cfree
ships shall make frce goodsp? does not imply the converse, that hostile ships shall make hostile goods, There
is certainly no necessary connexion between Ithe two
maxims, nor have they ever-been supposed to be necessarily counectedL The one is the claim of a neutral,
the other of a belligerent. What is the rule of justice?
That free ships should make free- goods, and that frec

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

En.REzn,
BENNBaTT,
31ASTER.

-

goods, in belligerent ships, should be free also.

When-

ever the two maxims have been connected in a treaty,
it has been where one of the maxims was important to

one of the parties as a neutral nation, and the other to
the other party as a belligerent nation.
In the treaty of the armed neutrality in i780, the interest of the Dutch was to have the benefit of both maxims, The Dutch idea however was discarded by the
northern confederacy, and the two maxims completely
separated.. The empress of Russia in her manifesto of
the 26th .of February, 1780, declaring the principles
which she intended to follow, states this principle in the
fOlowing words, c( That the effects belonging to the
,subjects of the said warring powers shall be free in
"all neutral vessels, except contraband merchandize."
But she says nothing respecting neutrai goods found on
board belligerent vessels. It cannot be supposed that
she meant to surrender her neutral rights by more implication. The principle is expressed in nearly the
same words in the treaty of armed neutrality of 1780 ;
nothing is there said respecting neutral goods in belligerent vessels. The king of Prussia, however, in his
answer to. the Russian manifesto, explicitly claims the
freedom of neutral goods on board belligerent shipsp as
wvell as of belliger.nt goods on board' of neutral ships.
These facts show that in the general understanding of
all Europe, the two maxims were entirely distinct and
independent. See also ,fartens's Law of.J'Pationf, transLWted byl Cabbct, 318. The United States did not exist

as a nation until after the two maxims wero thus completely separated.

Only three of the treaties by the Unite4 States have
been produced on the other sode. There are in fact
eight in which the principle' is mentioned. I The
treaty with France of the 6th of February, 1778, iol. I
V. 398, which. expressly adopts both maxims; the United States having in that instance yielded to the belligerentclain of France. 2. The treaiy with Holland of
the 8th of Octoberj 1782, vol. 1, p. a56. 3. The treaty
with Sweden of 4d April, 1783; evol.
2, p. 256o adopts

only the maxim that free ships shall make free goods.
4. The treaty with Prussiaof 1785, vol. 2, P. 320, which
adopts the principle free ships, &c. only. S. The treaty

FEBRUART TERII I85.
THE
.oL
2, p. 869, which stipulates that
with Morocco, 1787,
free ships shall -makefree goods, and that neutral goods z1,E DE,
on board of belligerent vessels shall also be free. This RENnLTf,
latter stipulation was necessary, in zs much as the Bar- MASTER.
bary powers pay little respect in practice to the law of
nations. 6. The treaty of 1795, with the Dey of Algiers, -vol.2, p. 500, which adopts the maxim,free ships,
free goods. 7. The treaty with Spain of :.795, voL 2, p.
526, adopts the same maxim. 8. The treaty with Tripoli, of 1796, -vol. 4., p. -1, adopts the same maxim and
further stipulates that neutral goods shall be free in belligerent vessels. It was not necessary that such a stipulation should be inserted in the treaty with Spain, because Spain knew the law of nations nd professed to
respect it.

If there be no doubt, then, as to the construction to be
given by the Spanish treaty, there is no necessity to dismiss the ordinance which is supposed to be connected
with it. The principle which they call the rule of reciprocity ought more properly to be called the rule of
retaliation.
But there is no such ordinance of Spain as is pretended. The ordinance applies only to Spanish goods
found on board t~ie vessels of the enemy, and was a more
temporary provision to continue only during the war.
It appears by the extract from D'idbreu, found in 2
jzuni, 1.89, that the liability of the goods of neutrals
found on board the vessels of the enemy depended bpon
treatizs and not upon that ordinance.
The rule of retaliation is not a rule of the law of nations. The violation of the law of nations by one nation does not make it lawful for the offended nation to
violate the law in the same way. It is true that states
may resort to retaliation as a means of coercing justice
from the other party. But this is always done as an act
of state, and not as the mere result of a judicial execufiqn of the law of nations. It is the effect of policy, not
of law. Such were the measures adopted by the orders
in council of Great Britain, and the offensive decrees of
France, and of other nations under the control of France.
which have been mentioned on the other side. The government of a state always undertakes to punish the vioVOL. IX.
A,

441
Tn.H
WEREIDE,
ifENNETT,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

latio, of its rights and it chooses its own means.

But

the tribunals of justice must decide according. to law.

"MASTER. - rthe cases alluded to by sir W. Scott in the Santa
Cniz, are cases in whiclv the government cotld lawfully
exercise its discrelion in receding from its acknowledged
rights. Thus in the case of property seized at the
breaking otrt of a war, the government would have an
unquestioned righit to condemn or to release it. It was
not the rgkt to condemn which depended upon, the rule
of recipr'oity, but the. inexpediency. It was nora question of law, but of policy.
As to the armament, and the resistance.
It is difficult to say in what fact the opposite party
coisider the criminality to exist. Is it that Pinto took
unarmed passen.ers on board? This waslawful. Was
it the taking on board enemy goods ? This was innocent.
Was it in chartering an armed vessel ? There is no rule
of the law of nations against it. Was it in arming the
vessel ? The fact is not proved. Was it in joining in
e combat? It is fully proved that lie tookno part in
the contest.
But it is said that chartering the vessel makes him
owner forthe voya.e. This is not the rule in a Court of
4dmiralty. Even if an enemy charter a neutral vessel
lie is not owner for the voyage. The vessel is always
restored. Bynkershoek says it is not unlawful for a
neutral to hirc a vessel from the enemy, for commercial
purposes. But it said that he means an unarmed ves.
sel. There is nothing to support that idea. rhe natural presumption is that an enemy's ship would be armed.
It'is said also that a neutral may deposit his goods in
an armed belligerent vessel under a bill of lading, but
n1'under a charter-party. That is, that several neutral
merchants may severally occupy the whole ship, but
that one cannot. A.distinction founded upon no differenre of principle cannot alter the cse. flow does lie
call the belligerent faculiesof theship into action, more
in one case than in the other? Does the nentral add to
her belligertnt faculty, by lading her deeply-vad giving
her a destination from which she dare not depart in quest
of her enemy ?

FEBRUARY TERM iSi5.
This is not a commmssioned vessel. That case Mniglt TflD
be different. The Eperier -was a comissioned vessel, NELEDE,
and it is said was coming from Bermuda with bullion
for the British troops in Canada; otherwise probably a
claim for the bullion would have been interposed. In
the'case of the British packets captured during the present war, was the property of the neutral passengers
confiscated ?, These vessels were armed and commissioned. But.there is no distinction taken in the books
between commissioned and uncommissioned vessels, except that the latter cannot make captures, under the pe-

nalty of being treated as pirates.

2 .q-uni, 233.

If the doctrine he true in regard to an armed vessel,
it must be equally true with regard to convoy; yet they
do not pretend that this vessel is liable to condemnation
because she sailed with convoy. The law of England is
now that no vessel shall sail without convoy. Such a
doctritio would go to .prevent neutral property from being laden on board an English merchantman. Did
England suppose, when she was passing.the law requiring
all vessels to sail with convoy, that she was cutting herself off from all neutral freight?
When writers on the law of nations speak of a belligerent vessel, what do they mean ? They -speak of it as
of a wolf which you can only hold by the ears-Lumm
aurirus tenere. They mean a vessel carrying on uwar.
But-can a vessel carry on war without arms ? What degree of armament is sufficient to make it unlawful for a
neutral to employ her ? One musket, or two, or twenty ?
The Con olato del M3are, was written long before the
knowledge of fire arms, and does not speak of the distinction between armed and unarmed. In all the battles
in which England has been engaged, and in all her commercial transactions, has such a case iiaver occurred be-

fore? If it has, why are the books silent upon the sub;
ject. Why has not a single writer in the worhl mentioned
thedifference between neutral goods found in an afmed
and in an unarmed vessel of the enemy? See 2 Azui d,
191, 195,196, 197, and the authorities there cited.
The owner of the ship was an enemy.. He had a perfect right to arm and defend his ship. The master, for

ENNETT
MASTEn.

SUPREME COURT U. S:
THE

this purpose was his exclusive agent.

His act in do.

fending the ship cannot be attributed to the innocent
BExEwTT, owrer of the cargo, wAho also had a perfect right to put
WEREIDE 9.
MASTER.

his goods on board Sich a ship; and who did not interfere
in the combat. But it is said that a neutral has only a
right to carry on his accustomed trade in his accustomed
manner. Where is it said that it must be carried on in
his accustomed-manner ? There is no authority for such
a restriction, nor any principle to justify it.
But this trade from London to luenos Ayres was al.
ways carried on in British ships, and often if not generally armed. This was a voyage carried on in the accustpmed way.
It is said also that by. putting these neutrA goods 'on
b.'rd an armed vessel our right of search, as a belligerent nation, was impaired.
Buthow is the right of search applicable to this case?
This is a secondary right, auxiliary to the belligerent
right of capturing the enemy's goods on board a neutral
vessel. Itis applicable only to a vessel bearing a neutral Bag. The belligerent has a right to know whether
the cargo be really neutral, and for that purpose must
examine it atgea. But ifthe vessel bears the flagofan
premy, there is no necessity to search the nature of the
cargo at sea. You have tie right to capture at once,
and bring her in, when the cargo may be examined ;
the neutral must make out his claim, and is never entitled to damages for the delay or the detention.
. Why does neutral resistance of search
forfeit the car.
go as well as the vessel, although the owner of the cargo
had no concern in the vessel nor in the resistance? it is
because the act of resistaice was wholly unlawful'; and
the owner of the cargo can recover damages, from the
owner of the vessel or the master. But here the resistance was lawful; Pinto could never recover damagef
against the master for defending his ship.
March i.

.Jbset....TonD, 3.

MAARsHAuaT, Ch. J.after stating the facts of tho caaec
delivefed the opinion of the pourt as follows-

FEBRUARY TERM 1L815.

m; In support of the sefitence of condemnation in this
case, the captors contend,

TuH
HEREIME,
I3ENKFRT'

:. Thatthe Claimant, Manuel Pinto, has neither made mAST-Un.
sufficient proof-of his neutral character nor of his property in the goods he claims.
2. That by the treaty between Spain and the United
States the. property of a Spnish subject in an enemy's
vessel is prize of war.

3. That on the principles of reciprocity this property
should be condemned.
&. That the conduct of Manuel Pinto and of the vessel has impressed a hostile character on his property and
on that of other Spaniards laden on board oftheNcreide.
1. Manuel Pinto is admitted to be a native of Buenos
Ayres, and to carry on trade at that place in con nexion
With his father and sister, who are his partners, and who
also reside at Buenos Ayres ; but it is contended that
he has acquired a domicil in England, and with that dopficil the English commercial character.

Is the bvidence in any degree doubtful on this point ?
Baltaza Ximenes, Antonio Lynch, and FelLx Lynch,
tiree Spaniards; returning- with Pinto in the Nereide,
all depose that Buenos Ayres.is the place of his nativity
and of his permanent residence, and that he carries on
trade at that place.
In his test affidavit Manuel Pinto swears in the most
explicit terms to the fact that Buenos Ayres is, and always has been the place of his permanent residence;
that'he carries on business there on account of himself,
his father, and sister, and that he has been absent for
emporary purposes only. His voyage to London, where
he arrived in June, i8i3, was for the purpose of purchasing a cargo for his trade at Buenos Ayres, and of
establishing connexiovis in London for the purposes of
his future trade at Buenos Ayres.
This Vlain and direct testimony is opposedp

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
ZEREIDE,

3ErNNETT,
MIST L.

1. By Pis exiitnination in Zreparatorio.

In his answer to the first interrogatory he says that

he wag born at Buenos Ayres, that for seven Yeirs last
past, he has lived and resided in England and Buenos
Ayres, that he now lives at Buenos Ayres, that he has
generally lived there for thirty-five ycal s last past, and
has been admitted a freeman of the new government.

Whatever facility may be given to the acquisition of a,
commercil domicil, it has never heretofore been contended that a merchant having a fixed residence, and
carrying on business at the place of his birth, acquires
a foreign commercial character by occasional visits to a
fbreign country. Had the introduction of the words "seven years last past" even not been fully accounted for by
reference to the interrogatory, those words could not
have implied such a residence as would give a domicil.
But they arefully accounted for.
In his answer to the 12th interrogatory he repeats
that he is a Spanish American; now lives and cari'ies
on trade at Buenos Ayres, and has generally resided
there.
2. The second piece of testimony relied on by the,
counsel for the captors is the charter party. That instrument states Manuel Pinto to be of Buenos Ayres
now residing in London.
The charter party does not state him to have been formerly of Buenos Ayres, but to be, at its date, of Buenos Ayres. Nothing can be 'more obvious thin that the
expression, now residingin London, could be intended
to convey no other idea than that he was then porsonally
in London.As little importance is attaqhed to the covenant to receive the return cargo'at the wharf in London. The
performance of this duty by the consignee of the cargo
as the ageilt of Pinto, would be, a complete execution
of it.
Had the English character been iriendly and the Spanish hostile, it would have been a hardy attempt iideed in

FEBRUARY TERMI ii.
Mr. Pinto to found, on these circumstances, a claim'to a

TH1

domicil in Fngland.

TERBIDE.
B3ENNLTT,

Thi question respecting ownership of the goods is
not so perfectly clear.
Tie evidence of actual ownership, so far as the claim
asserts property existing, at the time, in himself and
partners, is involved in no uncertainty. The te~t affidavit annexed to the claim is full, explicit, and direct.
It goes as faf as a test affidavit can go in establishing
the right which the claim asserts. All the documentary
evidence, relating to this subject, corroborates this affidavit. The charter party shows an expectation that, of
a freight of 700L the goods of Mr. Pinto would pay400L
The very circumstance that he chartered the whole vc§sel furnishes-strong inducement to the opinion that a
great part of her cargo would be his own.
The witnesses examined in preparatorzo,so far as they
know any thing on the subject, all depose to his interest.
V liam Puzey was clerk to Pinto, and he deposes to
the interest of his employer, on the knowledge acquired
in making out invoices and other papers belonging to
the cargo. His belief too is, in some degree, founded
on the clharacter of Pinto in London, where lie was spoken of as a man of great respectability and property
and from the anxiety he discovered for the safety of the
property after the Nereide was separated from her convoy.
The bills of lading for that part of the cargo which is
claimed by Pinto, are filled up, many of them with his
name, some to order, and the marginal letters in the
manifest would also denote the property to be his. Where
he claims a part of a parcel of goods the invoice is sometimes to order, and the marginal letters would indicate
the goods to be the'property of Pinto and some other
person.
Tlhis testimony proves, very satisfactorily, the inteirest ofPintos house in the propetty he claims. There is
lo counter testimony in the cause, except the belief expressed by Mr. Puzey, that for a part of the goods Pinto was agent for the government of Buenos Ayres. This

ASsTER.
-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THn
EI.9IDE,
BERNETT,
MASTER.

belief of Mr. Puzey is supposed to derive much Ayeight
from his character as the clerk of Mr. Pinto. The im-

portance of that circumstance, however, is much dimin-

ished by the fact that he had seen Pinto only a week before the sailing of the Nereide, and that hedoes not
declare his belief to be f6unded on any papers he had
copied or seen; or on any communication made to him
by,his employer. The.e are other and obvious grounds
for his suspicion. A part of the cargo consisted of arms
and military accoutrements ; and it was not very surprising that Puzey should conjecture that they were
purchased for a government about to sustain itself by
the sword. But this suspicion is opposed by considerations of decisive influence, which have been stitqd at
the bar. The defiand for these articles in Buenos Ayres by the government would furnish sufficient motiveor
to a merchant for making them a part of his.cargo. In
a considerable part of this,warlike apparatus, British
subjects were jointly concerned. It is extretreely improbable, that, if acting fo his government, lie -would hive.
associated its interests with those of British merchants.
NTor can a motive be assigned for claiming those goods
for himself instead of claiming them for his governmelnt.
They would hiot by such claim become his if restorel.
He would still remain' accountable to his governmentp
and the truth would lhavQ protected the property a vffectually as a falshood, should it remain undetected. By
~laimin.q these goods for himself, instead of his government, he would commit a peijury from which he could
derive no possible advantage, and which would expose
to imminent hazard, not only those goods lut his whole
interest in the cargo. The Court; therefore, mustconsider
this belief of Mr.Puzey as a suspicion,'which a full knowledge of the facts ought entirely to dissipate. If there
was nothing in the cattse but this suspicion, or this belief of Mr.Puzey,' the court would not attach any inportance to it. But Mr. Pinto himself .has, in his examination in preparatorio,been at least indiscreet in asserting claims notto be sustained ; and in terms which
do not exhibit the real fact in its true shape. In his
answer to the 12th interrogatory he says "And thia
" deponent also has one-fourth interest as owiler of
",the following goods, &c. viz.15 bales of merchandize,"
&c. In his claim he thus states the transaction under which his title to the one-f urth of these- goods ac-

FEBRUARY TERM i8w5.
orued. He had agreed with certain persons in England
to select for them a parcel of goods for the market
of Buenos Ayres, of which he was to be the consignee,
and which he would sell on a commission'of 10 per cent.
on the amount of sales at-Buenos Ayres. These goods
were selected, purchased, and .consigned to Manuel
Pinto. The hills of lading were in lIis possession, and
he considered his interest under this contract as equal
to one-f6urth of the value of the goods, "wherefore," he
says, ,"he did suppose that he was interested in the
said goods and merchandize for hirhself, his fathei, and
sister, and well entitled, as the owner thereof, or otherwise., to an equal f,urth part of the said goods, inasmu~c as his commissions as aforesaid, would have been
equll to such fourth."
It is impossible to justify this representation of the
fact. The reasoning might convince the witness, but
the language he used was undoubtedly calculated to mislead the Court, and to extricate property to which the
captors were clearly entitled, 'although the witness
:aight think otherwise. Such misrepresentations must
be frowned on in a prize Court, -and must involve a
CIaim, otherwise unexceptionable, in doubt aid danger.
A witness ought never to swear to inferences without
stating the train of reasining by 'which his mind has
been conducted to them. Prize Courts are necessarily
watchful over subjects of this kind, and demand the utmost-fairness in the conduct of Claimants. Yet prize
Courts must distingnish between misrepresentations
which maybe ascribed to error of judgment, and which
Are, as soon as possible, corrected by the party who has
made them, and wilful falsehoods Which are detected by
the t03timony of others, or confessed by the party when
detection becomes inevitable. - In the first mase there
may be cause for a critical and perhaps suspicious ex..
amination of the claim and of the testimony by %01-hit
is supported; but it would be hitrsh indeed to condemn
neutral property, in a case in which it was clearly proved
to be neutral, for one false step, in some degree equivocal in its character, whica was so soon corrected by the
party making.it. ,
The case of Mr. Paul's printing press is still less dubious in its appe rance. It would require a very criti.
VOL. IX.
5

TRE
TZEREIDEp

.

,rx'

MASTF]Ii

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THuI&,
NEREIDE,
BENNETT,
WASTEn.

cat iniestigation of the evidence to decide whe!hler this
press is stated in his answer lo the 12th interro tAey
to be his property or not. Four presses are said ;n tiat
answer to belong to him ; but he also says in his answer to another intelTogatory; perhaps the 26th, that
Mr. Paul had one printing press on board. Whlther
there were five presses in the cargo, or only ibur, has
not been decided, .because the declaration made in his
examination in prepizratoriothat one of .the presses be.
longed to Mr. Paul proves unequivocally that the mstake, if he made one, was not fraudulent.
That he should state as his, the propierty %wiichbeionged to a house in Buenos Ayres, whose members all
resided at the same.place, and of which he was the acting and managing partner, was a circumstance which
could not appear important to himself, and which was
of no importance in the cause. These trivial and accidental inaccuracies are corrected in his claim and in his
test affidavit. The Court does not think them of sufficient importance to work a confiscation of goods, of the
real neutrality of which no serious doubt is entertained.
2. Does the treaty between Spain and the United
States subject the goods of either party, being neutral, to
condemnation as enemy property, if found by-the other
in the vessel of an enemy? That treaty stipulates that
neutral bottoms shall make neutral goods, but contains
no stipulation that enemy bottoms shall communicate
the hostile character to the cargo. It is contended by
the captots that the two principles are so completely
identified that the stipulation of, the one necessarily in.
cludes the other.

Let this proposition be examined.
The rule tfat the goous of an enemy found in the ves.
sel of a friend are prize of war) and that the .go'ds of a
friend found in-the vessel of an enemy are to be restoredy
is believed to be a part of the original law of nations, as
generally, perhaps universally, acknowledged. Certainly 't has been fully and unequivocally reeoiniz-d
by the United States. This rule is fdunded on the simplo and intelligible principle fhat war gives a full right
to capture the goods of an enemy, but gives no rig ht to

FEBRUARY TERDI ii,
capture the goods of a friend. In the practical application of thts principle, so as to form the rule, the proposi-

Tim
nLnDE,

tions that the neutral flag constitutes no protection to BENNETT,

enemy property, and that the belligerent flag communicates nb hostile character to neutral property, are necessarily admitted. The character of the property,
taken distinctly and separately from all other. cunsiderations. depends in no degree upon the character of the
vehicle in which it is found.
Many nations have believed it to be their interest tq
vary this simple and natural principle of public law.
They have changed it by convention between themselves
as far as they have believed it to be for their advantage
to change it. But unless there be something in the nature qf the rule which renders its parts unsusceptible of
division, nations must be capable of dividing it by express compact, and if they stipulate either that the neutral flag shall cover enemy goods., or that the enemy
flag shall infect friendly goods, there woudd, in reason,
seem to be no necessity for implying a distinct stiphlation not expressed by the parties.. Troaties are formed
upon deliberate reflection. Diplomatic men read the
public treaties made by other nations and cannot be
supposed either to omit or insert an article, common in
public treaties, without being aware of the effect of such
omission or insertion. • Neither the one nor the other is
to be ascribed to inattention. And if an omitted article be not necessarily implied'in one which is inserted,
the subject to which that article would apply remains
under the ancient rule. That the stipulation of imnmu.
nity to enemy goods in the bottoms of one of the parties
being neutral does not imply a surrender of the goods
of that party being neutral, if found in the vessel or an
enemy, is .the proposition of the counsel for the Claimant, and he powerfully sustains that proposition by
arguments arising from the nature of the two stipula-tions. The agreement that neutral bottoms shall make
neutral goods is, lie very justly remarks, a concession
made by the belligerent to the neutraH. It enlarges the
sphere of neutral commerce, and gives to the neutral
flag a capacity not given toit by the law of nations.
The stipulation-which subjects neutral property, found
in the bottom of an enemy, to condemnation aq prize of

3LASTEn.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T

,-

wynH- i.
MENNk.TT,
MA6TERI.

war, is a concession made by the neutral to thie bellige,

rent. It i:arrows the sphere of neutral commerce, and
tak,.s from the neutral a privilege he possessed under
th law of nations. The one may be, and, often is, exchang d for the other. But it niay be the interest and
the will of both parties to stipulate the one without the
other; and if it be their interest, or their will,' what
shall prevent its accomplishment? A neutral may give
some other compensation for the privilege of transporting enemy goods in safety, or both parties may find an
interest in stipulating for this privilege, and neither may
be di!posed to make to, or require from,, the othr the
surrender of any right as its consideiation. What shall
restrain independent nations from making such a compact? And how is their intention to be communicated
to each other or to the world so properly as by the compiact itself?
If reason can furnish no evidence of the indissoltibility of the two maxims, the supporters of that proposition
will tc;rtainly derive no aid from the history of their
progress from the first attempts at their introduction to
the present monient.
For a considerable lengt-h of time they were the companions of each other-.-not as one maxim consisting of a
single indivisible principle, but as two. stipulations, the
one; in the view of the parties, forming a natural and
9livious consideration for the other. The celebrated
compact termed the. armed neutrality, attempted to effect- by force a great revolution in the law of nations.
The attempt failed,- but it made a deep and lasting impression on public sentiment. The character of this
effort has been accurately stateWd by the counsel for the
Claimants. Its object was to enlarge, and not in any
thing to diminish the rights of neutrals. Theogreat powers, parties to this agreement, contended for the principle, tiat free ships should m:ke free goods; but not for
the converse maxim ; so far were they from supposing
the one to follow as a corollary from the other, that the
contrary opinion was openly -and distinctly avowed.
The king of Prussii declared his expectation that in
future neutral bottoms would protect the goods of nit
enemy, and that neutral goods would be safe in an enemy bottom. There is no reason to believe that this opi

FEBRUARY TERI

I8SM.

&ionwasnot common to those powers who acceded to
the principles of the armed neutrality.

1*w

N-PIDZ,
BY4NNTLT

From that epoch.to the present, in the various trea- BtAsTER.
ties. which have been formed, some contain no article
on the subject and consequently leave the ancient rule
in full force. Some stipulate that the character of the
cargo shall depend upon the flag, some that the neutral
.fag shall protect the goods of an enemy, some that the
goods of a neutral in the vessel of a friend shall be
prize of war, and some that thd goods-of an enemy in a
neutral bottom shall be safe, and that friendly goods
In the bottom of an enemy shall agho be safe.
This review which was taken with minute accuracy
at the bar, certainly demonstrates.that in public opinion
no two principles are more distinct and independent of
each other than the two which have been contended to
be inseparable.
Do the United States understand tl.is subject ditrerently from other nations ? It is certainly not from our
treaties that this opiion can be sustained. The United
States have in some-treaties stipulated for both principles, in some for one of Ithem only, in some that neutral
bottoms shall make neutral goods and that friendly goods
shall be safe in the hottom of an enemy.. It is therefore
clearly understood in the United States, so far as an
opinion can be formed on thir treaties, that the one
principle is totally independent oftic other. They have
stipulated expressly for their separation, and they have
sometimes stipulated for the one without the other.
But in a correspondencebetween the secretary of state

or the United States and the minister of the French re-

public in 1793, Prussia is enumerated among those nations with whom the United States had made a treaty
adopting the entire principle that the character of the
cargo should be determined by the character of the flag.
Not being in possession of this correspondence the
Court is*unable to examine the construction it has received; It has not deferred this opinion on that account.
because the point in controversy at that time was te
obligation imposed on the United States to protect belli

SUPREME OU:RT U. S.
THE. gerent property in their vepsels, not ditc liability of their
property to capture if found in the vessel of a belligeNN'ETT, rent. To this point the whole attention of the write:r
aAs.TE1..
was directed, and it is not'wonderf'l that in munnioning
incidentally the treaty with Prussia which contalns tte
principlo that free. bottoms )i&:."e free goods, it should
have escaped his recollection that it did not contain the
converse of the maxim. On the talents and virtues
which adorned the cabinet 'of that day, on the patient
fortitude with which it resisted the intenperate violince
with Nhich it was assailed, on the firmness with which
it maintained those principles which its sonso, of duty
prescribed; on the wisdom of the ruls it ftdopted, no
panegyric has been pronounced at the bar in which the
best judgment of this Court does not concur. But this
respectful deffcrence may well comport with the opinion,
that an argument incidentally brought forward hy way
of illustration, is not such full authority as a decision directly on the point might have been.

W36hknin,

3. the third point made by the captors is, that what.
ever construction might b6 put on orr treaty with Spain,
considered as an independant measure, the ordinances
of that government wpuld subject American property,
under similar circumstances, to confiscation, and therefore the property, claimed by Spanish subjects in this
case, ought to. be condemed as prize of war.
The ordinances themselves have not been produced,
nor has the Court received such information respecting
them as would enable it to decide certainly either on
their permanent existence, or on their application to the
United Stateg. But be this as it may, the Court is decidedly of opinion that reciproc;atiag to the subjects of a
nation, or retaliating on them, its ,njust proceedings tok'ards our citizens, is a political not a legal measure.
It is for the consideration of the government not of its
Courts. The degree and the kind of retaliation de.
pend entirely on considerations foreign to this tribunal.
It may be the policy of the nation to avenge its wrongs
in a manner having no affinity to the injuey sustained,
,ir
it may be its policy to recede front its full rights and
not to avenge them at all. It is not for its Courts to
interfere with the proceedings of the nation and to thwart
its views. It is not for us to depart froin the boaten trac-

FEBRUARY TEI

18i6.

prescribed for us, and to tread the devious and iotricate
THE
path of politics. Even in the case of salvage, a case pe- NERLD*.
culiarl within the discretion of Courts, because no fixed n. 'r,
rule. is prescribed by the law of nations, congress has not MASTEIU.
left it to this department to say whether the rule of foreign nations shall be applied to therm, but has by law
applied that rule. if it be the will of thegovernment to
apply to Spain any rule respecting captures which Spain
is supposed to apply to us, the go'ernment will manifest
that will by passing an act for the purpose. Till such
an, act be passed, the Court is bound by the law of nations which is a part of the law of the land.
Thus far the opinion of the Court has been formed
without much difficulty. Although the principles, Is.
sorted by the.counsel, have been sustained on both sides
with great strength of argument, they have been found
on examination to be simple and clear in themselves.
Stripped. of the ihmposing garb in which they have been
presented to the Court, they hate no intrinsic intricacy
which should perplex the understanding.
The remaining point is of adifferentcharacter. Belligere.nt rights and neutral privileges are set in array
against each other. Their respective pretensions, if not
actually intermixed, come into close contact, and thio
line of partition is not so distinctiy marked as to be,
clearly discernible. It is impossible to declare in favor
of either, witbout hearing, from the other, objections
which it is difficult to answer and arguments, %i
hich it ir
not easy to refute. The Court has given to this subject
a patient investigation, and has endeavored to avail itself of all the aid which has been furnished by the bar.
The result, if not completely satisfactory even to ourselves, is one from which it is helieved we should not depart were further time allowed for deliberation.
4. Has the conduct ot Manuel Pinto and of the
lNereide been such as to impress the hostile character on
that part of the cargo which was in fact neutral i
In considering this question the Court has examined
separately the parts which compose it.

The vessel was armed, was the property of an enemy)

SUPREME COURT U. &.
'rnE
NE
DE,
BENNfETT,

MASTER.

and made resistence.
claim?

IHow

do these facts affect tho

Had the vessel been armed by Pinto, that fact would
certainly have constituted an important feature in the
case. But the Court can perceive no reason for believing she was armed by l'im. He chartered, it is true
the whole vessel, and that he might as rightfully do as
contract for her partially ; but there is no reason to believe that he was instrumental in arming her. The
owner stipulates that the Nereide " well manned, victus, ailed, equipped, pro'ided and furnished with all things
66 needful for such a vessel," shall be ready to taje on
board a cargo to be provided for her. The Nereido,
then, was to be put, by the owner, in the condition in
which she was to sail. In equipping her, whether with
or without arms, Mr. Pinto was not concerned. It appears to have been entirely and exclusively the act of
the belligerent owner.
Whetherthe resistance, which was actually made$ is
in any degree imputable to Mr. Pinto, is a question of
still more importance.
It has been argued that lie had the whole ship, and
that, therefore, the resistance was his resistance.
The whole evidence upon this point is to 'e found in
the charter party, in the letter of instructions to the
master, and in the answer of -Pinto tor one of the iter'.
rogatories in priparatoiio.
The charter party evinces throughout that the ship
remained under the entire direction of the owner, and
that Pifito in no degree partio'pated in the command of
her. The owner appoints the master and stinulates for
every act to be performed by the ship, froni the date of
the charter party to the termination of the voyaqe. In
no one re.pect, except in lading the vessel, was Pinto to
have any direction of her.
The lQtter of instructions to the master contahms full
directions i-or the regelation of his conduct, without any
other reference to 'Mr. Pinto than has been already
stated. That reference shows a positive limitation of

FEBRUARY TERM 18i5.
Tm
*his power by the terms of the charter party. Conseqiiently he had no share in the government of the ship. NEREWE,
BENN'ETT,

But Pinto says in his answer to the 6th interrogatory .NUSTER.
that lie had control of the said ship and cargo."
Nothing can be more obvious than that Pinto could
understand himself as saying no more than that he had
the control of the ship and cargo so far as resperted her
lading. A part of the cargo did not belong to him, and
was not consigned to him. His control over the ship
began and ePidtd with putting the cargo on board. He
does not appear ever to have exercised any authority in
the management, of the ship. So far from exercising
any during the batth-, lie went into the cabin where he
remained till the conflmct was over. It is, then, m.ast ap.
parent that when Pinto said he had the control of the
ship and cargo, lie us..d those terms in a limited sense.
He us-d them in refer,-nce to the power of lading her,
given him by the. charter party.
If, in this, the Court be correct, this cause is to be
govwned hy the principles which would apply to it had
the Nereide been a general ship.

The next point to be considered is.
the right of a neutral to place his goods on board an armed belligerent
merchantman.
That a neutral may lawfull put his goods on board
a belligerent ship for conveyance (;n the ocean, is universally recognized as the original rule of the law of nations. It is, as has already been stated, founded on 'le
plain and simple principle ihat the property %fa friend
remains his property wherevcr it m .y Le found. cSSince
it is not," says Vattel, 6. the plaue where a thing is which
determines the natere of that thing, but the character of
the Perion to whom it belonis, things bel:mwging to neutral persons which happen to be in an enem) s country o- on board an enemy's ships, are to be distinguished ?f'om those wh:ch hel-ng to the enemy."
Bynkershoek lays down the same principles in terms
equally explicit; and in terms entitled to the more consideration, heause he enters into the enquiry whether a
VOL.lX,
5

126

Tij

SUPREME C6URT U. S.

knowledge of the hostile character of the vessel can ef%

NER.IDE, feet the owner of the goods.
BENrNETT,
MASTER.

The same principle is laid down by other writers on
the same subject, and is believed to be contradicted by
none. It is true there were some old ordinances of
France declaring that a hostile vessel or cargo should
expose both to condemnation. But these ordinances
have never constituted a rule of public law.
It is deemed ot much importance that the rule is universally laid down in terms which comprehend an
armed 'as well as an unarmed vessel; and that armed
vessels have never been excepted from it. Bynkershoeka
in discussing a question suggesting an exception, with
his mind directed to hostilities, does not hint that this
privilege is confined to unarmed merchantmen.
In point of fact, it is belibved that a belligerent merchant vessel rarely sails unarmed, so that this oxception from the rule would be greater than the rulo itself,
At all events, the number of those who are armed and
who sail under convoy, is too great not to have attraq-,
ed the attention of writers on public law; and this exception to their broad general rule, if it existed, would
certainly be found in some of their works. It would be
strange if a rule laid down, with a view to war, in such
broad terms as to have univers*al application, should be
so construed as to exclude from its operation almost
every case for which it purports to provide, and yet
thit not a dictum should be found in the books pointing
to such construction.
The antiquity of the rule is certainly not unworthy of
consideration. It is to be traced back to the time when
almost every merchantman was in a condition for selfdefence, and the implements of war were so light and so
cheap that scarcely any would sail without them.
A belligerent has a perfect right to arm in his own
defence; and a neutral has a perfect right to. transport
his goods in a belligerent vessel. These rights do not
interfere with each other. The neutral has no control
over the belligerent right to arm-ought he to be accountable for the exercise of it

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
By placing neutral property in a belligerent ship,

THE

,that property, according to the positive rules of law, .nz RLE,
Tv.T,
does not cease to be neutral. Why should it be changed nN
by the exercise of a belligerent right, universally ac- mAsTER.
knowledged and in common use when the rule was laid
dqwn, and over which the neutral had no,control?

The belligerent answeis, that by arming his rights
are impaired. By placing his goods under the guns (f
an enemy, the neutral has taken part with the enemy
and assumed the hostile character.
Previous to that examination which the Court has
been able to make of the reasoning by which this proposition is sustained, one remark will be made which
applies to a great part of it. The argument which,
taken in its fair sense, would prove that it is unlawful
to deposit goods for transportation in the vessel of an
enemy generally, however imposing its form, must be
unsound, because it is in contradiction to acknowledged
law.
It is said that by depositing goods on board an armed belligerent tile right of search may be impaired, perhlaps defeated.
What is this right of search? Is it a substantive and
independent right wantonly, and in the pride of power,
to vex and harrass neutral commerce, because there is
a capacity to do so ? or to indulge the idle and mischievous curiosity of looking into neutral trade? or the
assumption of a right to control it? If it be such a substamtive and independent right, it would be better that
cargoes should be inspected in port before the sailing of
the vessel, or that belligerent licenses should be procured. But this is not its character.
Belligerents have a full and perfect right to capture
enemy goods and articles going to their enemy which
are contraband of war. To the exercise of that right
tme right of search is essential. It is a mean justified
by the end. It has been truely denominated a right
growing out of, and ancillary to the greater right of
capture. Where this greater right may be legally ex.

SUPRME COURT U. G.
THE
2q.REIDFE,

ISEWNEVTT,
MASTER.

ercised withbut search, the right of search can nevoi
arise or come into question.
But it is siid that the exercise of this right may be
prevented by the inability of the party claiming it to
capture the belligerent carrier of neutral property.
And what injury results from this circumstance ? If
the property be neutral, what mischief is done by its cs.
caping a search. In so doing there is no sin even as
against the. belligerent, if it can be effected by lawful
means. The neutral cannot justify the use of force or
fraud, but if by means, lawful in themselves, he canes.
cape this vexatious procedure; he may certainly emplovr
them.
To the argument that by placing his goods in the
vessel of an armed enem ', he connects himself with that
enemy and assumes the hostile character; it is answer,
ed that no such connexion exists.
The object of the neutral is the transportation of his
goods. HIs connexion with the vessel wbich transports
them is the sime, whether that vessel be armed or unarmed. "nbe act of arming is not his-it is the act of a
party who bas a right so to do. He meddles not with
the armamenit noir with the war. Whether his goods
were on bard or not, the vessel would be armed and
would sail. His goods do not contribute to the arma.
merit further than the freight lie pays, and freight lie
would pay were the vessel unarmed.
It is difficult to peri'cive in this argument any thing
which does not also apply to an unarmed vessel, In
both instances it is the right and the duty of the carrier
to.avoid capture and to prevent a search. There is no,
difference except in the degree of capacity to carry this
duty into effect. The argument would operate against
the rule which permits the neutral merchant to employ
a bellige''rent vesssel without imparting to hls goods the
belligerent character.
The argument respecting resistance stands on the
same ground with that which respects arming. Both
are lawful. Neither of them is chargeable to the goods

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
or their owner, where he has taken no part in it. They
Tim
are incidents to the character of the vessel; and may NEREIDE,
BENNLTap
always occur where the carrier is belligerent.
MASTER.

It is remarkable that no express authority on either
side of this question car be found in the books. A few
scanty materials, made up of inferences from cases dependibg on other principles, have been gleaned from the
books and, employed by both parties. They arc cer-teinly not decisive for or against either.
The celebrated case of the Swedish convoy has been
pressed into the service. But that case decided no more
than this, that a neutral may arm, but cannot by force
resist a search. Tihe reasoning of the judge on that 'ccasion would seem to indicate that the resistance condemned the cargo, .because it was unlawful. It has
been'inferred on the one side that the goods would be
infected by the resistance of the ship, and on the other
that a resistance which is lawful, and is not produced by
the goods, will not change their character.
The case of the Catharine Elizabeth approaches more
nearly to that of the Nereide, because in that case as in
this there were neutral goods and a belligerent vessel.
It was certainly a case, not of resistance, but of an attempt by a part of the crew to seize the capturing v~ssel.
Between such an attempt and an attempt to take the
same vessel previous to capture, there does not seem
to be a-total -dissimilitude. But it is the reasoning of
the judge and not his decision, of which the Claimants
would avail themselves. He distinguishes between the
effect which the employment of rorce by a belligerent owner or by a neutral owner would have on netutral goods. The first is lawful, the last unlawful. The
belligerent owner violates no duty. He is held by force
and may escape if he can. From the marginal note it
appears that the reporter understood this case to decide
in principle that resistance by a belligerent vessel would
not confiscate the cargo. It is only in a case without
express authority-that suchinaterials can be relied on.
If the neutral cikaracter of the goods is forfeited by
the resistance of the belligerent vessel, why is not the
neutral character of the passengers forfeited by the same

-

SUPRIME COURT. U S.
cause ? The master ant crew are prisoners of -war,
THE
-fEflptinF, why are not those passengers. who diI not engage in the
BENNETT, conflict also prisoners ? That they are not would seem
MAsTER.. tO the Court to afford a strong argument in favor bf the
goods. The law would operate in the same manner on
both.
It cannot scape observation, that in argument the
neutral freighter has been continually represented as
arming th6 Nereide and impelling her'to hostility. He
is represented as drawing forth and guiding her warlike
energies, The Court does not so understand the case.
The Nereide was armed, governed, and conducted by
belligerents. With her force, or her conduct the neutral
6hippers had no Concern. They deposited their goods
on board the vessel, and stipulated for their direct trans
portation"to Buenos Ayres. It is true that on her passhe had a rikht to defend herself, did defend herself,
sage
and might have captured an assailing'vessel; but to
search for the enemy would have been a violation of the
charter party and of her duty.
With a pncil dipped in the most vivid colours, and
guided by the hand of a master, a splendid portrait has
been drawn exhibiting this vessel and her freighter as
forming a single figure, composed of the, most, discordant materials, of peace and war. So exquisite was the
skill of the artist, so dazzling the. garb in which the fig re was presented, that it required the exercise of that
cold investigating faculty which ought always to belong
to those who sit on this bench, to discover its only imperfection : its want of resemblance.
The Nereide has not that centaur-like appearance
which has been ascribed to her. She does not rove over
the ocean hurling the thunders of war while sheltered by
the olive branch of peace. She is not composed in part
of the neutral character of Mr. Pinto, and in part of the
hostile character of her owner. She is an open and declared belligerent; claiming all the rights, and subject
to all the dangers of the belligerent character. She
conveys neutral property which does not engage in her
warlike equipments, or in any employment she may make
of them ; which is put on board solely for the purpose
of transportation, and which encounters the hazard in-

FEBRUARY TERK i810.

'13't

cident to its situation ; the hazard of being taken into
port, and obliged to seek another conveyance should its

carrier be captured.

In this it is the opinion of the majority of the Court
there is nothing unlawful. *The characters of the vessel
and cargo remain as distinct in this as in any other case.
The sent,nc, therefore, of the Circuit Court must be
reversed, and the property claimed by Manuel Pinto for
himself and his partners, and for those other Spaniards for
whom he has claimed, be restored, and the libel 'as to
that Property, be dismisped.
Jon,-soN, J. Circumstances, known to this Court,
have imposed upon me, in a great measure, the responsibility of this decision. I approach the case with nil tho
hesitation which respect for the opinion of othdrs and a
convictio'n'of the novelty and importance of sonie of the
questions are calculated to inspire. The same respect
imposes upon me an obligation briefly to state the course
of reasoning by which I am led to my conclnsion.
On the minor points I feel no difliculty. There is
nothing to support the charge of English domiciliation;
the-charges of prevarication are satisfactorily explained'
and.on the question of nitional character, we must yet
awhile reluctantly yield to the acknowledgement that
Buenos Ayres is not free.
On the constrtiction of the Spanish treaty, I feel as
little hesitation. That a stipulation calculated solely. to
produce an extension of neutral rights, should involve in
itself a restriction of neutral rights ; that a mutual and
gratuitoug concession of a belligerent right, should draw
afteri it a necessary relinquishment of a neutral right,
which hAs never yielded but to express and (generally)
extorted stipulation; are conclusiops wholly irreconcilable"to any priciple of logical deduction.
Nor does the argument tounted on reciprocity stand
on any better ground. There is a principle of reciprocity known to Courts administering inter-national lawt;
but I trust it is a reciprocity of benevolence, and that the
angry passions which produce revenge and retaliation
will never exert their influence on the administration of

TiLE
NEREIE,
1EN-WLTTr
31ASTJSPl

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tnr

justice. Dismal would be the state of the worldi and

NERSiDE, melancholy the office of a judge, if all the evils which
BENNETT,
MAST8R.

the perfidy and injustice of power inflict on individual
man, were to be reflected from the tribunals which profess peace and good will to all mankind. Nor is it easy
to see how this principle of reciprocity, on the broad
scale by which it has been protracted in this case, can
be reconciled to the distribution of power made in our
constitution among the three great departments of government. To the legislative power alone it must belong to determine when the violence of other nations
is to be met by violence. To the judiciary, to administer law and justice as it is, not as it is made to be by
the folly or caprice of other nationS.
The last question in the case is the only one on which I
feel the slightest difficulty.
The general rule, the incontestible principle is, that
a neutral has a right to employ a belligerent carpier.
He exposes himself thereby to capture and detention,
'but not to condemnation.
To support the condemnation in this case, it is neces.
sary to establish an exception to this rule and if is itnportant to lay down the exceptions, contended for, with
truth and precision. In the first place, it is contended that a neutral has
not a iight to transport his goods on board of an armed
belligerent.
right be conceded, Pinto, in this
Secondly, that if thir
case, has carried the exercise of it beyond Ihe duties of
fair neutrality;
1. By laying the vessel under the obligation of a coiltract to sail with convoy:

2. By chartering an entire armed vessel of the enemyp
and thus expediting an armed hostile force :
3. By taking in enemy goods on freight, apd thereby
laying himself under an implied contrAct that the ar.
mament of the vessel should be used in its defence :

FEBRUARY TERM iSMi.
TnEZ
.1. It was also contended that he had, in fact, armed
u.rupmE,
the vessel after chartering her, and increased hr force
BF.T-e
by admitting passengers:
31ASTEJU

5. That the correspondence, fbund on board, shews
that the armament was immediately directed against
capture by Americans.
On the first and pfincipal ground much may be said,
but nothing added to the ingenious discussion which it
has received from counsel.
The question is, why may not a neutral transport his
goods on board an armed belligerent? No writer on the
law of nations has suggested this restriction on his
rights ; and it can only be sustained 6n the ground of
its obstructing the exercise of some belligerent right.
What belligerent right does it interfere with ? Not the
right of search, for that has relation to the converse case;
it is a right resulting from the right of capturing enemy's goods in a neutral bott;,m. It must be then the
right, which every nation asserts, of being the sole arbiter of its own conduct towards other natuons, and deciding for itself, whether property, claimed as neutral,
be owned as claimed. The question is thus rairly stated
between the neutral and belligerent. On the ona hand,
the neutral claims Ole right of transporting his g'oods in
the hostile bottom: On the other, the beliigerentubjects
to his doing it under such circumstances as to impair
his right of judging., between himse!f and the neutral,
on the nenltrality of his property and conduct. The
evidence of authority, the practice of the world, and the
reason and nature of things must decide between them.
All these are, in my opinion, in favor of the neutral
claim.
Every writer on inter-national law acknowledges the
right of the neutral to transport his goods in a hostile
bottom. No writer has restricted the exercise of that
right to unarmed ships.
Every civilized nation (with the exception of Spain)
has unequivocally acknowledged the existence of this
right, unless it be relinquished by express stipulation
55
VOL. IX.

SUPREME COURT I. S.
E

andeven with regard to Spain, the evidence is wholly

xBznRnnx,

unsatisfactory to prove that she maintains a different

BFNETT,
MASTE R.

doctrine.

T

My present belief is, that she doe not; but.

admit that she ddes ; and surely the practice of one nation; and that one not the most enlightened or commercial, ought not to be permitted to control the law of the

world.
And what is the decision of reason on the merits of
these coriflicting pretensions ?
Her first and favorite answer would be, that were the
cales equally suspended between the parties, the decision
ought to be given in favor of humanity;
Already is the aspect of the world sufficiently darkened by the horrors of war. It is time to listen to the
desponding claims of man engaged in the peaceful pursuits of life.
But there are considerations in favor of the neutral to
which the heart need not assent; they are addressed to
the judgment alone.
Admit the. claim of the belligerent, and you fritter
a~vay the right of the neutral until it is attenuated to a
vision.
Admit the claim of the neutral and it is attended with
a very immaterial change in therights and interests of
the belligerent.
Where are we to draw the liie ? If a vessel is not
to be armed, what is to amount to an exceptionable armament? It extends to an absolute and total privation of
the right of arming a hostile ship. Resistance, and even
capture, is lawful to any belligerent that is attacked.
On the other hand, what injury is done to the belligerent by recognizing the right of the neutral ? Tie car.
go of a belligerent neither adds to nor diminishes his
right to resit. If empty lie must be subdued before he
can he possessed ; and. if laden, the" right or faculty,
of resistsnce is in no wise increased. It is inherent ii
her nktional character, and can be exercised by strict
right, without any reference to 'the cargo that sh con-

FEBRUAR Y TERU181.
tains,

Suppose the case of a vessel and cargo wholly

T.UE

neutral; even she possesses a natural right to resist NEnE1DE,
seizure; but her resistance must be effectual, or inter- BENNiETTt
national law pronounces her forfeited. What injury re- SIASTEIL

suits to the belligerent cruizer ? If the cargb be really
neutral, the exercise of his right of judging becomes inmaterial; and if it be contraband, or otlerwisr subject to
condemnation, what reason in nature can be assigned
why the-neutral owner should not throw himself upon
the fortune of war, and rely upon the protection of your
enemy ? You treat him as an enemy, if .captured, and
why should not he regard you as an enemy, and provide
for his defence against you ? I can very well conceive
that a case may occur in which it may become the policy of this country to throw down the gauntlet to the
world and-assert a different principle. But the policy
of these States is submitted to the wisdom of the legistuare, and I shall fe7l myself bound by other reason,; until the constitutional power shall decide what modifications it will prescribe to the exercise of any acknowledged neutral right.
The second ground of exception resolves itself into
several points, and presents to my mind the greatest
difficulties in the. case.
1. There is a stipulation contained in the charterparty that the vessel shall sail with convoy.
2. Pinto chartered the whole vesscl.

s. He took in sub-affreightment of hostile goods.
4. It is contended he had contributed to the arming
and manning of the vessel after chartering her.
5. And that her equipment was pointedly againt

American capture.
With regard to the two latter points I am of opinion
that the evidence does not prove that Pinto contributed
to the armament of the vessel; and if she was armed
by the owners, that it was against American capture is
immaterial. As to the passenger5, Pinto had no con.
trol over the reception of them into the vessel. Re lad

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
taken the iold and two births in the cabin ; as to the
residue it remained subject to the disposal of the captain
DLtNETT, or owner.
THE

NEREIDB,
MASTER.

With regard to the three other points, after the best
conhidiration that I have been able to give the subject,
I satisfy my mind by two considerations.
1. I will not now give an opinion upon the abstract
ease of an -individual neutrad to all the world. It is
known that'Pinto was liable to capture both by the
French and Carthagenians. This justified h;m in placing himself under British protection ; and if, in the exercise of this unquestionable right, ho 'has incidentally
impaired the exercise of ou' right of seizure for adjudicdtion;\we have nothing to complain of. The case occurs daily ; and nothing but candor and fairness can be
exacted of a neutral under such circumstances.
2. There appears to prevail much misconception with
regard to the control acquired by Pinto, in this vessel,
under the chatter parry. uis contva'at gave him the occupation of -the hold of the vessd and two births in the
cabin ; but went no farlher. Over the conduct of the
rnaster and crew, in navigating or defending the vessel,
it communicated to ti'm no power. It is true that by the
condact of the master and the fate of the vessel, he might
be ;iicidenially affected as astzb-freighter, and so fAir he hmtd
an iit6rest in her defence; still, however, it is redu:'iblo
to the goneral interest which lie hAd in the pr'formauce
of the voyage, and it does not appear that he ever acted
utder an idea of being authorized to control the, conduct of the captain, or took any part in the conflict which
preceded the capture.
I am of opinion that the judgment shoult be reversed
and the property restored.
STORY, J. My opinion will be confined to the point
last argued because it definitively disposes of the cause
against the claim of Mr. Pinto.

The facts material to this point are that Mr. Pinto
chartered the Nereide, an uncommissioned armed ship
belonging to British subjects, for a voyagefrom London

FEBRUARY TERM 181.

437

THE
to Buenos Ayres, and back to London at a stipulated
frc,,ght. The ship was to be. navigated during the voy- h-EuP.Ir
r9
age at the expense of the. general owner, who expressly BnETT
covenafited, in the charter-party with Mr. Pinto, that '.AsTrE.R
she. should sail on the voyage under BI.itisih convoy.

Mr. Pinto, havingthus hired the whole ship, took on board.
sundry shipments, partly on his own or Spanish account,
and partly on account of British merchants from whom
he was to receive, in lieu of freight, aportion of the profits and commissions. The M-.re'de sailed with her cargo itndef British convoy. ahd with instructions from the
owner to the master to govern himself, in relation to the
objects of the charter-party, according to the direction
of Mr. Pinto who accompanied the ship in the voyage.
During~ te'passage to Buenos Ayres, the NereidLe was
accidentally separated from the convoy, and, while endeavoring to regain it, was, after a vigotous but unsuccessful resistance, captured by the l;rivateer Governor
Tompkins, and brought into New York for adjudication.
It is expli.itly asserted, inthe testimony, that fr. Pinto
took no part in the resistance at the time of the capture.
The question is, whether, upon these farts, Mr. Pinto,
assuming him to be, a netltral, has so incorporated himself with the enemy interests as to fo feit that protection
wuch the neutral character would otherwise aflbrd him.
The general doctrine, though formerly subject to many learned doubts, is now in:"ntrovertibly established,
that neutral goods may be lawfully Ipt on board of an
enemy ship without being prize of war. A.s this doctrine'is asserted in the most broad And unqualified manner in publicists, it is thence attempted to be inferred,
by the counsel for theClaimant, that no distinction can
exist whether the ship be armed or unarmed, or be captured with or without resistance-aramnents of this sorl
are.liable to many objections, and are in general wholly
-unsatisfactory. Elementary writers rar.-ly explain the
principles of public law with the minute distinctions
which legal precision requires. Many of the mst important doctrineq of the prize Courts w ill not be found to
be treat-d of, or even glanced at. in the elaborate treatises
of Groties, or Puffendorr, or Vattel. A striking illustration is their total ilencC as to the illegality and pe-

433
THE
N'E1tMDin,
B.FNNETT,
MASTER,

SUPREME, COURT U. S.

nal consequences of a trade with the' public enemy.
Even Bynkershoek, who writes professedly on prize
law, is deficient in many important doctriues which every day regulate the decrees of prize tribunals. *And the
complexity of modern commerce has added incalculably
to the number as well as, the intricady'of questions of national law., In what publicist are to be found the doctrines as to the iltega.ty of'cirrying enemy dispatches,
and of eiigaging in the coasting, fishing, or other privileged trade of the enemy? Where are transfers iu
transitupronounced to be illegal ? Where are accurately
and systematically stated all the circumstances which
impress upon the neutral a general, or a limited, hostile.
character, either by reason of his domicil, his territorial
possessions, or his connexion in. a house of trade, in the
enemy country ? The seafch would be nearly in vain in
the celebi-ated Jurists whose authority has been quoted.
to silence the present enquiry. Yit the argumentwouldbe no less forcible that these doctrines have not a legal
existence because not founA!in systematic treatises on-the
law of nations, than that which has been so earnestlr
pressed upon us by tli counsel for the Claimants. The
assumed inference is then utterly inadmissible. The
question before the Court must be settled upon other
grounds; upon- a just application 'of the principles
which regulate neutrdl, as well as belligerent, rights and
duties. Let-us then proceed to consider thenm:It is a clear maxim.of'national law that a neutral is
bound to a perfect impartiality as to all the belligerents.
If he.incorporate himself into the measures or policy of
either; if lie become auxiliary to the enterprizes or ,dts
of either, he forfeits his neutral characer-nor is this all.
In relation to'his commerce le is bound to subr .t to the
belligerent right of searchland lie cannot lawfully adbpt
any measures whos6 dir.ct object is to withdraw ,that
commerce from the most liberal and accurate search
without the applidation on-the part of the belligerent of
superior force. If he resist this exercise of laviful right,
or if, with a view, toresist it, lie take theprotection of iu
armed neutral convoy, he is ,4eated as an enemy, and
his property is. confiscated. Nor is it at all material
whether the resistance be direct or constructive. The
xesistance of the convoy is the resistance of all the ships
associated under the common protection, without any

FE BRUARY TERAI I85.
distinction whether the convoy belong to the same or to
TIM
a foreign, neutral sovereign-for upon tlhe principles of stamina,
natral justice, a neutral is justly chargeable with the UBNrF.T,
acts oitlhe party:. which' he voluntarily adopts, or, of
,ST
which he seeks the shelter and protection. quz sentit .

conintdum seattre debet ct onus-these prIhciples are recoguized in the memorable cases of th'Jfaria,I' Rob.
S19, awl the Elgebe, 5, Pob. 173; ant can never be
shaken without delivering over to endless controversy
and conflict the maritime rights bf the world.
It has however been supposed, by the counsel of the
Claimants, that a distiiction exists between taking the
protection of aneutral, and of abelligerent, convoy. That
in the former case all armament for resistance is unlawful; but in the latter case it is not only lawful but'in tto
highest degree commendable. That although an unawfut act, as resistance by a neutral convoy, may justly arfeet the whole associated ships; yet it is otherwise of a
lawful act, as resistance of a belligerent ship, for no fore
feiture .canreasonably grow out of such an act which is
strictly justifiable.
The fallacy of the argument consists in assuming the
very grohnd in controversy; aud in confounding things;
in their own nature entirely distinct. An act perfectly
lawful in a belligerent, may be flagrantly wrongful-it
a neutral. A belligerdnt may lawfully resist search ; a
neutral is hound to submit to it. A belligerent upay
carry on his commerce by force; a neutral cannot A.
belligerent may capture the property of his enemy on
the ocean ; a neutral has no'autliority whatever to make
captures. Tile same act, therefore, that, with reference
to the rights and duties of the one, may be tortious, may,
with reference to the'rights and duties of'the other,. be
perfectly justifiable.. The act then, as.-to its character,
is to be judged of, not merely by that of the parties,
through whose immediate instrumentality it is done; but
also by the character of those, who, having co-operated
in, assented to, or sought protection from, it, would yet
withdraw themselves from the penalties of the act. It
-is-analogous to the case at common law where an
act, justifiable in one party, does not, from that,'ract-alone,
shelter his coadjutor. They must stand or fall upon

SUPREME COURT U. S,
their own merits. It wguld be strange indeed, if, beVRE
•EREIDE, cause a belligerent may kill his enemy,, a neutral may
IBENNETT, aid in the act; or because a belligerent may resist search,
MASTER. a neutral may co-operate to make it elfectual. It is
therlefore an ssunmption, utterly inadmissible, that anutral can avail himself of the lawful act of an enemy to
protect hiwseltf in an evasion of a clear belligerent
right.
And what reason can there be for the distinction confended for? Why is the resistance of the. convoy deemed
the resistance of the whole neutral associated ships. let
them belong to whom they may ? It is not that there
isa direct and immediate co-operation in the resistance,
because the case supposes the contrary. It is not that
the resistance of the convoy of the sovereign is deemed
an act to which all his own subjects consent, because the
ships of foreign subjects would then be exempted. 'itis
because there is a constructive resistance resulting ilt
law from the common association and voluntary protiex
tion against search unler a furi knowledge of the intentions otthe convoy ? Then the pliJciple alphes as ,.ell to
a belligerent 4s to a neutral convoy ? For it is nmtifest that the belligerent will at all evonts resist search;
and it is quite as manitlest that the neutral seeks
belligerent protectiunwith an intent to evade it. Is it
that an evasion of search, by.the employment, protection
or, terror of force, is inconsisteot with neutral duties?
Then a fortiorithe principle applies to a case of bellige.
rent convoy, for the resistance mast be preshmed to be
more obstinate and the search more perilous.
There can be but little doubt that it is upon the latter
principles that the penalty of confiscation is applied to
neiutrals. The law proceeds yet farther and deems the
sailing tinder convoy as an act per se inconsisttent with
neutrality, as a premeditated attempt to oppose, if
practicable, the right of search, and thefrer attributes
to such preliminary act, the full effect of actual rests.
tane. In this respect it applies a rule analoqous to
thatin cases of blockade, where the act of sailing w.'itli an
intent to break a blockade is deemed a sufficient breach
to authorize confiscation. And sir W. Scott nianif-stly
recognizes the correctness of this doctrine in the Maria,

FEBRUARY TERM Ism1.
although the circumstances of that case did not require

its rilgorous application.
Indeed, in relation to a neutral convoy, th evidence of
an intent to resist, as well as of constructive resistance,
is far more equivocal 'than in case of a belligerent convoy. In the latter case it is necessaily known to the
convoyed ships that the belligerent is bound to resist
and will resist until overcome by superior force. It is
impossible therefore t(. join such convoy without an 'itention to receive the protection of belligerent foice in
such manner and uider such circumstances as the belligerent may choose to apply it. It is an adoption of
his acts, and an assistance of his interests during the assumed voyage. To render the convoy an effectual protection, it is necessary to interchange signals and instructions, to communicate information, and to watch
the approach of every enemy. The neutral solicitously
aids and co-operates in all these important transactions,
and thus far manifestly sides with the. belligerent and
performs, as to him, a meritorious service-a service as
little reconcileable with neutral duties, as the agency of
a spy, or the fraud of a bearer of hostile dispatches.
In respect to a neutral convoy the inference of constructive co-operation and hostility is far less certain and
direct. To condemn, in such case, is pushing the doctrine to a great extent, .since it is acting upon the presumption, which is not prrmitted to be contradicted, that
all the convoyed ships distinctly understood and adopted
the objects of the convoy, and intimately blended their
own interests with hostile resistance.
There is not, then, the slightest reason for the favorable distinction, as to the belligerent convoy, assumed by
counsel. On the contrary, every presumption of hostility is, in such case, more violent, and every suspicion
of unneutral conduct more inflamed. And so in the argument of the Maria, i llob. 346, it was conceded by
the counsel for the Claimants, and recognized by the
Court. It was there, said by counsel that it seemed admitted by the Court on a former day that there was a
just distinction to be made between the two cases of convoy, viz: between the convoy of an enemy's force, anti
a neutral convoy; that the former (i. e. enemy convoy)
would stamp a prinzari characterof hostility on all shi ps
so
VOL. IX.

T/Th

N PEImE,
33EYfl'ETT.
BU5E.R.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

EREIDE,
AENNBETT,

MASTER.

sailing under its'protection, and it would rest on tile
parties to take themselves out of the presumption raised
against them ; but that, even in that case. itwould b.' nothingmoro than a presunlption, which had been determined
by a late case before the Lords, the Sampson, Barne,
ani asserted American ship sailing with French cruizers
at the time they engaged some English shils, and, ommunicating with the French ships by signal for battle.
That, in that case, although there had been a condemnation in the Court below, the Lords sent it to farther
proof to ascertain whether there had' been an actual resistance. 'Sir Win. Scott emphatically observed, ,iI do
, not admit the authority of that cise to the extent to
"which you push.it. Thatquestion :isstill reserved.
,although the Lords might Nish to know, as much of
"the facts as possi6le." It isclear, from this language,
that the learned judge did not admit that the patuty could
be legally permitted to coritradict the presumption of
hostility attached to the sailing under an enemy convoy.
On the contrary, he seemed to consider that the primary character of hostility, which, it was conceded on all
sides, was stamped upon such conduct, could, hot be permitted to be rebutted, but was conclusive upon tie par.
ty. The case of the Sampson was originally heard be.
fore the Court of vice admiralty, and the decree of condemnation was never disapproved of, if not 'ultimately
afflimed, by the Lords of Appeal. I have been assured
by very respectable authority that no proof of actual resistance ever was, or could have been, made on the final
hearing. ,The case, therefore, afrn'ds a steong inference
of the law as understood and administered in the prize
Courts of Great Britain.
And it may be added, in corroboration, that in Stuart
V.Wo'; S T. R. 323, 332, sir W. Scott (then advocato
general) asserted, without hesitation, that if the neutral
refused search, or sailed tinder convoy of the enemy's
ships of war, or conveyed intelligence to the enemy,
they are wavers of tile rights of neutrality. The. very
circumstance of his putting these three cais in connoxion to illustrate his general argument, affords the most
cogent proof that he considered himself as statin.; a doctrine equally clear and well established as to all of themndSince this opinion was delivered I find, by an account of all the appeals,
-nd final deciions thereon before the lords of' appeal, published by order oV

FEBRUARY TERM MSig.
And this doctrine seems conformable-to the sense of TmE
other European sovereigns. In the recent cases of the !rn.DE,
American ships captured while under British convoy by EM,.RT.T
the Danes, the right of coudemnation was not only as- MAsTEn.
serted and enforced by the highest tribunal of prize, but
expressly affirmed by the Danish sovereign after an
earnest appeal made by the government of 1he United
Statets. On that occasion the Danish minister piessed
the argument " that he who causes himself to be prod,tected by that act, (i. e. enemy convoy) ranges him6,self on the side of the protector, and thus puts himself
",in opposition to the enemy of the protector, and evi"c dently renounces the advantages attached to the cha-c racter of a friend to him against whom he seeks the
"cprotection. If Denmark should abandon this princi" ple, the navigators of all nations would find their ac" count in carrying on the commerce of Great Bi-!tain.
" under the protection of English ships of war without
" any risk ;" and he further declared ., that none of the
"cpowers in Europe have called in question the justice
" of this principle." State papers, 1811, p. 597.
It cannot be denied that our own government have
acquiesced in the truth ad correctness of this statement.
And if to the general silence of the other European
sovereigns we add the possitive examples of Great Britain and Denmark, (the latter of whom has not of late
years been deficient in zeal for neutral rights) it seems
difficult to avoid the conclusion that the doctrine is as
well founded in national law, as it seems to me to be in
justice and sound policy.
Another argument which has been urged in favor of
the assumed distinction ought not, however, to be omitted. It is that a party, neutral as to one power, may be
the house of commons in 1801, that the judgment of condemnation in the
Sampson was affirm d by the lords of appeal. The following is a tmsript
cf the printed account: "Sampson, "JoshaDarner, master; cargo. sugar,

takten by Mssnmajesty's ship
'n
r odadspe~cie,
"coflPe, mitten, indhio
"ofwvir Penelope, Bartholomew Samuel Rowley, esq. commaneder, claimed
"for American subjects for ship, cargo nridspecce--entence appealed froom

,pronounced at Jamaica .22d April, 1794-ship, eargo an1 specie conldemn"e.
Sentence in the Court of Appeals, viz: Slit of ,hMa-,1798, tentenec
-affirmed; as to the specie cladined on behalf of Wancktuth and Iutilh;
"'and 2lst of June, further proof directed to be made of the property of the
"'ship, cargo, and rest of the specie. 29thun ,1799,hlp,cargoanaspee
1
-,condemned!"

SUPREMIE COURT U. S.
an enemy as to another power, and lie may lawfully
.EREIDE,
place himself under belligerent convoy to escape from

TILE

NENnETT,
MASTER.

his own enemy. In such a predicament it is, therefore,
always open to the neutral to explain his conduct in

taking convoy, and to show, by proofs, his innocent intentions as to all friendly belligerents. In my judgment
this supposed state of thin.s would not remove a single
difficulty.
it is not in relation to enemies that the question as to
taking convoy can ever arise. It has reference only to
the rights of friendly belligerents ; and these rights remain precisely the same whatever may be the peculiar
situation of. he neutral as to third parties. Was it ever
hard of that a neutral might lawfully resist the right of
search of one power, because he was at war with another? And is not the evasion of this right just as injurious wh~ether thu neutral be atpeace with all the
world, or with a part only ?
There would be extreite difficulty in establishing, by
any disinterested testimony, the fact of any such special
intentions as the ar.gumcnt supposes. Independent of
this difficulty, it would. in effect, be an attempt tolrepol,
by positive testimony, a conclusive inference of law flowing from the very act of taking convoy. The bellige.
rent convoy is bound to resist all visitations by enemy
ships, whelthcr neutral to the convoyed ships or not.
This obligation is distinctly known to the party taking
its protection. If, therefore, he, choose to continue under the convoy, he shows an intention to avail himseit
of its protection tinder all the chances and hazards of
-war. The abandonment of such intention cannot ,be
otherwise evidentd than by the overt act of quitting
convoy. And it is impossible to conceive that the mere
secret -wishes or private declarations of a party could
prevail over his own deliberate act of continuing under
convoy, unless Courts of prize would surrender themselves to the most stale excuses and imbecile artificps.
It would be in vain to a ,minister justice in such Court,
if mere statements of intention would outweigh the legal effects of the acts of the parties. Besides, the injury to the friendly belligerent is'equally great whatever
might be the special objects of the neutral. The right
of search is effectually prevented by the presence of an-

FEBRUARY TERM iSiM.
perior force, or exercised only after the perils and injaries of victorious warfare. And it is this very evasion

THE
NXfLEIDE

of the right of search that constitutes the ground of con- BF-ETT,
demnation in ordinary cases. The neutral, in effect, MASTE.
declares that he will not submit to search until the ene- -my convoy is conquered,-and then only because he cannot avoid it. The special intention of the neutral then
could not, if proved, upon principle prevail, and it has
not a shadow of authority to sustain it. The argument
upon this point.was urged in the Maria and Elsebe, and
was instantly repelled by the Court.
On the whole, on this point my judgment is, that the
act of sailing under belligerent or neutral convoy is of
itself a violation of neutrality, and the ship and cargo
if caught in delicto arejustly confi-cable; and further,
that if resistance be necessary, as in my opinion it is
not, to pgrfect the offence, still that the resistance of the
convoy is to all purposes the resistance of the associated fleet. It might, with as much propriety, be maintained that neutral goods, guarded by a hostile army in
their passage through a country, or. voluntarily lodged
in a hostile fortress, for the avowed purpose of evading
the municipal rights and regulations of that country,
should not in case of capture he lawful plunder, (a pretension never yet asserted) as that neutral property on
the ocean should enjoy the double protection of war and
peace.
If these principles be correct, it remains to be considered how far the conduct of ir. Pinto brings !lin
within the range of their influence. It is clear that in
the original concoction of the voyage it was his intention to avail himself of British convoy. The covenant
in the charter party demonstrates this intention; a
covenant that, from its terms, being made by the ship
owner, must have been inserted for the benefit and at
the instance of the charterer. Under the faith of this
stipulation Mr. Pinto put his own property on board
and received shipment from persons of an acknowledged hostile character. The ship sailed on the voyage, under British convoy, with Mr. Pinto on board, and though
captured after a separation from the convoy, she was in
the very attempt to rejoin it. There is no pretence,
therefore, of an abandonment of the convoy, and the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
corfJts delicti, the chiarccter of hostility, impressed by
the sailing under convoy, if any attached, remained notBENNETT, withstanding the separation. It is like the sp.lllng for a
MASTER. blockaded port, where the offence continues, although at
the moment of capture the ship be, by'stress of'wcather,
driven in a direction fron the port of destination;' for
the hostile intention stil remains unchanged.
THE.

ERFAnIDE,

And here to avoid the effiect of the general doctrine,
we are met with another distinction founded upnn the
,-upposed difference between a belligerent and a neutral
merchant ship as to the taking of convoy. It is argoted
that the belligerent ship has an undoubted right to take
the protection of the ?onvoy of the nation to which she
belongs; and that this extends a perfect and lawful imIiunity to the neutral cargo on board.
It is certainly incumbent on the counsel for the Clhimant to support this exception to the general rule by
precedent or analogy. Nothing has been offered which,
in my judgme'nt, affords it the slightest support. It is
not true that a neutral ran shelter his property from
confiscation behind an act lawful in a belligerent. The
law imputes to the neutral the consequences of the act
if he might have foreseen and guarded against it, or if
lie voluntarily adopts it. Was it ever supposed that a
neutral cargo was protected from seizure by going in a
belli.gerent ship to a blockaded port? or that contraband
goods, belonging to a neutral, were exempted from confiscation because on board of such a shipbound on a
.yoyage lawful to the belligerent, but not to the neutral?
,yet th6 pretensions in these cases seem scarcely more
extravagant than that now urged. Why should a neutral be permitted to do that indirectly which he is prohiibited from doing directly? Why should lie aid th6
enemy by giving extraordinary freight for belligerent
ships sailing under belligerent bonv6y vith the avowed
p.urpose .. f escaping from search, arid often with the concealed inilention of aiding belligerent commerce, and yet
claim the benefits of the most impartial conduct? Until
some more solid ground can be laid for the"distinction
than the ingenuity of counsel has yet suggested, it
would seem fit to declar. ita lea non scripta est.
But even if the distinction existed, it could not apply

FEBRUARY TERM ism5.
Tirz
to the case at bar. This is a case where the, Claimanf
becomes the charterer of the whole vessel for the voy- KfnUmDm,
age and stipulates for the express benefit, of convoy. JENSIT-i
The ship, though navigated by a belligerent master and MASTER.
crew, was necessarily under the -ontrol and management of the charterer. He was the real effective dux
negotii. . Whatever may be the technical doctrine of the
common or prize law as to the general property in the
ship,, the charterer -was, to all purposes important in
this enquiry, the owner for the voyage, and the master
his agent. Can there" be a doubt that, as to the shipments of the enemy freighters, Mr. Pinto was responsible for th6 acts of the master? Was he not materially
interested in the safety and protection of'these shipments" in respect to freight, commissions and profits ?
If they had been, lost by capture, from the negligence of
Mr. Pinto or of the master, when by ordinary diligence
and resistance the loss might have been avoided, would
not -Mr. Pinto have been rcspopsible? How then it
can be consistently held that the ship was not essentially governed and managed by Mr. Pinto, and all hev
conduct incorporated with his interests, I profess to be
unable to comprehend. For what pprpose should he
insist on a covenant for convoy, if lie never meant to
derive aid and protection from it to the whole cargo on
board, and to range himself and his interests on the
side of resistance? His private conduct at the time of
the capture, when resistance was almost hopeless, affords no 6vidence to repel the irresistible presumptions
-fromhis deliberate acts.
-

And here again ?t has been argued that Mr. Pinto
had no hostile intentions against the United States; but
that the taking of convoy was simply to resist the
French and Carthagenians, who are the encinies of his
own couhtry. If such special intention could, in point
of law, uphold his claim which, fur the reasons already
stated, I am entirely satified it conld not, yet there is
not, in the present case, within my recollection, any proof
of such special intention. It rests upon tie mere suggestions of counsel. How, indeed, could Mr. Pinto
show that he meant to yield his property to the search
ot the cruizers of the United States, when the deliberate act of assuming British convoy precluded the possibility of its exercise, unless acquired by victory atLer
resistance?

18

SUPREME COURT U, S.

If this view of the case be correct, it must be pronounced that Mr. Pinto, by voluntarily sailing under
BEqNNETT, convoy, forfeited his neutrality, and bound his property
MASTERt. to an indissolubly hostile character.
TiN
NEREIDJE,

This, however, is not the only ground upon which
the claim of Mr. Pinto ought to be repudiated. There
was not merely the illegality of sailing under enemy
convoy up to the very eve of capture, but the fact bf
actual resistance of the chartered ship, and submission
to search only in c-nsequence of superior force.
An attempt,, however, is made to extract tile case at
bar, from the penalty of confiscation attached to resistance of search, upon the ground that Mr. Pinto took no
part in this resistance. It is asserted, that a shipper In
a general ship is not affected by the act of the enemy
naster; that the charterer of the whole ship is entitled
to as favorable a consideration ; and that there is no
difference, in point of law, whether the ship have, or
have not a commission, or be, or be not armed. It will
be necessary to give to these positions a full examina.
tion.
In the first place, it is to be considered whether a neu.
tral shipper has. a right to put his property on board of
an armed belligerent ship without violating his neutral
duties. If the doctrine already advanced on the subject
of convoy be correct, it is incontestible that he has no
such right. If he. cannot take belligerent convoy, a fortiori he cannot put his property on board of such convoy; or, what is equivalent, on board of an armed and
commissioned ship of the belligerent. What would be
the consequences if neutrals might lawfully carry on all
their commerce in the frigates and ships of war of another belligerent sovereign ? That there would be a perfeet identity of interests and of objects, of assistance and
of immuiity,- between the parties. The most gross
frauds and hostile enterprizes would be carried on under
neutral disguises, and the right of search would become
as utterly insignificant in practice as if it were extinguished by the common consent of nations. The extravagant premiums and freights which neutrals could well
afford to pay for this extraordinary protection would
enable the belllgerent to keep up armaments of incalcu.

FEBRUARY TERM I±i8.
lable size, to the dismay and ruin of inferior maritime T'ZH
powers.
Such false and hollow neutrality would be hN-nfrlW,
infinitely more injurious than the most active warrare. BE.N!ETT,
It would strip from the conqueror all the fruits of vic- m~sATE~i.
tory, and lay them at thc feet of those whose singular
merit would consist in evading his rights, if not in collusively aiding his enemy. It is not therefore to be admitted that a neutral may lawfully place his goods under
armed protection, on board of an enemy ship. Nor
can it be at all material whether such armed ship be
commissiomnd or not: that is an affair exclusively between a sovereign and his own subjects, but is utterly
unimportant to the neutral. For lether thearmnament
be employed for offence, or for defence, in respect totlird
parties, the peril and the obstruction to the right ofsearch
areequally co,mplete. 1Noris ittrue, as has beenassertedin
argument, that a non-commissioned armed bltip has )3o
right to capture an enemy ship, except in her own dofence. The act of capture without such pretext, so far
from being piracy, would be strictly justifiable upon
the law of nations, however it might stand upon the municipal law of the country of the capturing ship. Vattel
has been quoted to the contrary; but on a careful examination, it will be found that his text does not warrant
the doctrine.
--

I have had Occasion to consider this point in another
cause, in this Court, and to the opinion then delivered I
refer for a more full discussion of it. If the sulbect capture without a commission, he can acquire no property
to himself in the prize; and if the act be contrary to
the regulations of his own so.vereign, lie may be liable
to municipal penalties for his conduct. But as to the
enemy he violates no rights by the capture. Such, on an
accurate consideration, will be found to be the doctsine
of Puffendorf, and Grotius, and Bynkershoek, and they
stand confirmed by a memerable decision of the lords of
appeal, in 1759. 2 Brown's civil 'and adin. app. 562-Grotius lib. S, ch. 6, s. 8, 9, i0-and Barbegracs note on
S. 8, Puffeudorf,lib. 8, ch. 6, s. 2i, 4c. Bynk. 2, P. J. ch.
3, ,, 16,17. 2 Woodes. lect. 432. Consol. de.?larecl. 287
288. 4 Inst. 152, 15-.
Zonch, adm. 101. Casaregis
Disc. 2z. %. Com. dig. admiralty. E. S. Buds. c. 27.
Admitting, however, (what to me seems utterly inadVOL. IX.
57

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tim

missible) that a fieutral may lawfully ship his goods on

NEu.n.DE, board the armied ship of an enemy, it will be o' little
3F.VNFTT'

BIASTDR.

avail, unless he. is exempted from the consequences of
all the acts of such en'iy. If the shipment be innocent,
it uxili he of Hide avail ill this case, if the resistence of
the enemy mn.ster will compromit the nfeutral character
of the dargo. To the eslablislLment, therefore, of such
an exemption, the exertions of coiotscl have been stren'ously du'tected. It has been inferred from the silence of
el.umentarv writers, from the authority of analagous
cases, and fron the positive declmtrations of the Court,
in the CathriaElizabtth, 5 Rob. .206.
The arqitraent drawn from the silence of Jurists ]IRs
been already sufficiently answered. It remains to consider th-at which is urged upon the fooming of authority.
Tie reasoning from supposed analagous cases is quite as
unatisfaotory. It is not true, as to neutrals, that the act
of the master never binds the owner of the cargo unless
th master is proved to be the actual agent of the owner.
The act of the master may be, and very often is, conclusive upon the cargo, although no general agency is establishpd.
Suppose he violate a blockade, 'suppress
and fraudulently destroy ,he ship's papers, or mix up
under the same cover enemy interests, will not the cargo
share the fate of th- ship ? The cases cited are mere exceptions to the general rule. They, in general, turn
upbn a settled distinction, that the act of the master shall
not bind the cargo, where the act under the circumnstaies
could not have been within the scope or contemplation
of the shipper at the time of shipment; or where llis
ignorance of the voyage,, and of the intended acts of the
master, is placed beyond the possibility of doubt. See Vi'e
qdons, 5 Rob. 256. The Very case of resistance is a
strong illustration of the principle. The resistance of
the neutral master, has been deliberately held to be conclusive on the neutral cargo. The Rizebe, 5 Rob. 173.
The Catherina Elizabeth, 5 Rob. 206. What reason
can there be for a different rule in respect to a belligerent master?
If must be admitted that the language of the Court in
the case of the Catherina Elizabeth Would at first view,
seem to support the. position of the Claimant's,counsel.
On a close examination, however, it will not be found to

FEBRUARY TERI

18iM.

ThE
assert so broad a doctrine. The. case was of a res t e
attempted by an enemy master having ,n board a nu NZRmEy
tral cargo; and this rescue attempted, not of the captured. nuni.TT.,
but of the capturing,ship. It was arguen that this re- flASTEU.

sistance of the master exposed the whole car.go. entrustdd to his management, to confiscation. The Court held
that no such penalty was incurred. That the r-sistance
could only be the hostile act of a hostile person who was
a prisoner of -war, and who, unless under parole, liad a
perfect right to emancipate himself by seizing his own
vessel. That the case of a neutral master differed from.
that of an enemy master. No duty was violared by such
an act on the part of the latter ; tupzim aurbus teneo,
and if he could withdraw himself he had a right sc, to do.
#hd that a inateritdfact in the case was, that the master
did not attempt to withdraw his property, but to rescue
the ship of thp captor and not his own vessel. Such was
the decision of the Court, upon which several observations arise. In the first place the resistance was not
made previous to the capture ; and therefore whatever
may be the extent of the language, it must be restrained
to the circumstances of the case in judgment, otherwise
it would be extra.-judicial. In the next place it would be
impossible to conceive how the fact, as to what vessel
was seized, could be itateria!,if the argument of the present Claimant be correct, for in all events the resistance
as to the cargo would be without any legal effects. In the
last place it is clear, that the case is put by the Court
upon the ground, that the master at the time of the act
had been dispossessed of his vessel by capture, and was
a prisoner of war. He was, therefore, no longer acting
as master of the ship, and had no further management
of her. His rights and duties, as master, had entirely
ceased by the capture, and there could be no pretence to
affect the ship or cargo with his subsequent acts, any
more than with the acts of any other steang-r. The case
would have been entirely different with a neutral master,
whose relation to his ship continues itwithstanding a cap.
ture and carrying in for adjudication. The case therefore admits of sound distinctions from that at bar, and
cannot be admitted to govern it.
There is another text, n9t cited in the argument, which
may be thought to favor the doctrine of the Claimant's
counsel. It is the only passage bearing on the subject in

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tim

controversy which has fallen under my.notice in any

NEREIDE, elementary work. Casaregis, in his commercial, disBENNETT, CoUrses, (Disc. 24, n.22) has the following remarks :MASTER. ccerum tamen notandum est quod si nuais ininica one.

,,ratainercibus mercatorum amicorum aggresgafierit atc teram inimicant et mercatores aut domini mercium ope.
s ram ac industriurm dedissent pro ea aggredienda tunc
-merces dominorun. cadunt etiam sub preda, si navis
,,predicta.onerata 7nercibus"fuerit deproedata, 4-c. 6-c. et
cc regulariter bona eorum qui auxilium inimices nostris
cc prwstant .%eel confederati cur Us sunt, prwdari pOSc sunt." It is obvilms that Casaregis is here considering the case of an attack of an enemy merchant ship,
laden with a neutral cargo, upon the ship of its enemy
in which the former is unsuccestful and is captured.
Under such circumstances he holds, that if the neutral
shippers, or the persons having the management or the
cargo (doinini wercium) have aided in the attack, the
cargo is forfeited, upori the ground that all who assist
or confederate with an enemy are liable to bc pludered
by the law of war. He does not touch the case, where an
enemy merchant ship simply makes resistance in her
own defence, or resists the right of search; nor how
far the master of such ship is the dominus merclurn, or
can by his own acts bind the cargo. Much less has he
discussed the question as to what acts amount to an incorporation into the objects and interest- of the enemy,
so as to affix a hostile character. It does not seem to
me that his text can be an authority beyond the terms
in which it is expressed. It pronounces affirmatively
that a co-operation'in an attack will induce confiscation
of the cargo, (which cannot be doubted;) butit-does not
pronounce negatively that the resistance of an enemy
master will not draw after it the same penalty. And
if it were otherwise, it would deserve consideration
whether the opinion of a mere elementary writer, respectable as he may be, delivered at a time when the
prize law was not as well settled as it has been in the
present age, should be permitted to regulate the maritime
rights of belligerent nations.
The argument then, on the footing of authority, fails.,
for none is produced which directly',points at circumstances like those in the case at bnWr. And upon principleit seems quite is difficult to support it. f am unable

FEBRUARY TERM i15.
to.perceive any-solid foundation on which to re. a diisTU.
tinction bettwccn the resistance of a neutral and cf an VaER111DE,
enciy waster. The injury to the belligerent is in both ukN.ETT,9

pases equally great, for it equally withdraws the neutral
property from the right of search, unless acquire-! by
siperior.firce.

And until it is established that an ene-

my protection legally, suspends the right of search, it
cannot be that xesistance to such right should not be
equally penal in each party. I have, therefore, no difficulty in holding that the resistance of the ship is, in
all cases, the resistance of the cargo', and that it makes
no difference whether she he armed or una,'ned, coramissioned or unc.nnmi-sioned. He who puts his property
on the issue of battle, must stand or fall by the event of
the qontest. The law of neutrality is silent when arms
are appealed to in order to decide rights ; and the captor
'is entitled to the whole prize won by his gallantry and
valor. This opinion is not the mere inference, strong
:as it seems to me to be, of general reasoning. It is fortified by the consideration that in the earliest rudiments
of prize law, in the, great maiitime countries of Great
of
Britain and France, confiscation is applied by wa%%y
penalty .for resistance of scarch to all vessels withont
any discrimination of the natimial character of the vessels or cargp,.'. The black bouk of the admiralty expressly articulates that any vessel nakin. esi-tMnce may
be attacked andf seized as enemies ; nd this Iule is caforced in the nienorable prze instructions of Henry N 11.
Clerk's Praxis 6k, Rol). Collect. .1farit.p. 10, and'note, aiul
p. H1S. The ordinance of France of 158t, is equally
broad; and declares all such vassels good prize ; and
this has ever since remained a settled rule in the prize
code of that nation.
. r-alin informs us Ihat it is also the rule of Spain ;
atil that in France it is applied as well to French"cessels
and cargoes Ls t,those of neutrals, and allies, Col .Aarit, 118, 1-din Traits des 'rizfs, ch. 5, § 8, p. 80. There
is not to be found in the maritime code of any nation, or
in any commentary.threon, the least glimmering of antiority that distinguishes, in cases of resistance,the fate
of the cargo, from that of the ship. If such a ditinction could have been sustained, it is almost incradible
that not a siugle ray of light should have beamed upon
it during the long lapse of.ages, in which maritime. war-

m.ibTt.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
NEREIDE,
BENNETT,
MASTER.

fare has engaged the world. And if any argument is
to be drawn from the silence of authority, I know not
under what circumstances it can be more forcibly applied than against the exception now contended for.
But even if it were conceded that a neutral shipper in
a general ship might be protected, the concession would
not assist the present Claimant. ,His interests were so
completely mixed tip and combined with thb interests of
the enemy; the master was so entirely his agent under
the charter party, that it is impracticable to extract
the case from the rule that stamps Mr. Pinto with a
hostile character. The whole commercial enterprizo
was radically tainted with a hostile leaven. In its very
essence it was a fraud upon belligerent rights. I, for
a moment, it could be admitted that a neutral might
lawfully ship goods in an armed ship of an enemy, or
might charter such a ship, and navigate her with a neu,
tral crew, these admissions would fall far short of succouring the Claimant. He must successfully contend for
broader doctrines, for doctrines which, in my humble
judgment, are of infinitely more dangerous tendency
than any which Schlegel and Hnbner, the champions of
neutrality, have yet advanced iptothe field of maritime
controversy. I cannot bring my mind to believe tfiat a
neutral can charter an armed enemy ship, amid-ictual
and man her with an. enemy creW, (for though fuinished directly by the owner they arc-iri effect paid and
supported by the chartereri with the avowed knowledge
and necessary intent that she should resist every enemy; that he can take on board hostile shipments on
freight, commissions and profits; th'., he can stipulate
expressly for the benefit and use of enemy convoy, and
iiavigate during the voyage under its guns and protection;. that he can be the entire projector and conductor"
of the voyage, and co-olprate in all the plans of the
owner to render resistance to search secure and effectual ; and that yet, notwithstanding all this conduct, by
the law of nations he may shelter his property from
confiscation and claim -the privileges of an inoffensive
neutral. On the contrary, it seems to me that such conluct is utterly irreconcileable with the good faith of a
iriend, and unites all the qualities of the most odious
hostility. It wears the hibiliments of neutrality only
when the sword and the armour, of an enemy become

FEBRUARY TERA i.i.
useless for defence.

If it be, as it undoubtedly is, a vi-

TnZ

olation of neutrality to engage in the transport service NEhn.DE
of the enemy, or to carry his dispatches even on a neu- D3ENN.r.TT,
tral voyage, how much more so must it be to inlist, all MASTER.
our own interests in his service, and hire his arms and
his crew in order to prevent the exercise of those rights
which, as neutrals, we are bound to submit to ? The
doctrine is founded in most perfect justice, that those
who adhere to an enemy connexion shall share the fate
of the enemy.
On the whole, in every view which I have been able
f:o take of this subject, [ hin satisfied that the claim of
Mr. Pinto must be rejected, and that his property is
good prize to the captors. And in this opinion I am
authorized to state that I have the concurrence of one of
my brethren. It is matter of regret that in this conclusion I have the misfortune to differ from a niqority of
the Court, for whose superior learning and ability I entertain the most entire respect. But I hold it an indispensable duty not to surrender my own judgment, bbcause a great weight of opinion it against me, a weight
which no one can feel more sensibly than myself. Had
this been an ordinary case I should have contented myself with silence.; but believing that no more important
or interesting question ever came before a prize tribuhial, and that the national rights, suspended on it, are of
infinite moment to the maritime world, I have thought
it not unfit tW pronounce my'own opinion, diffident in-

deed of is fullness and accuracy of illustration, but en.
tirely satisfied of the. rectitude of its principles.

