FEBRUARY TERIMT isig,
.assent of the minister, unless such assent be expressly TErnnsr
& OTHERS
Aispensed with by sbme statute.
"re

On the whole the majority of the Court are of opinion TAYLOR
that the land in conitroversy belongs to the Episcipal &0TIIERS
church of Alexandria, and has not been divested by the
revolution, or any act of the legislature passed since that
period; that the Plaintiffs ax'e of ability to maintain the
present bill ; that the oveiseers of thte poor of the parish
of Fairfax have no just, legal, or equitable title to the
said land, and ought to be perpetually enjoined front
claiming the same; and thht asalQ of the said land ought,
for the reasons stated in the bill, to be, decreed upon the
assent of the minister of said church (if any there be)
being given thereto; and that the present church wardens and the said aames Wren ought to be decreed to
convey the same to the purchaser; and the proceeds to
be applied in the manner prayed for in the bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court is to be reformed so
as to conform to this opinion.

THE BRIG SHORT STAPLE AND CARGO,

(caltawayand others, Claimants,)

i81.
Feb.

1U31

THE UNITED STATES.

Absent....Jnx'so , J. 5 TODD, .
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Circuit Court, for the district or Masqachusetts, which af- Q ,re;

t

firmed that of the district Court condemning the brig th ti,uIL-,
Short Staple and cargo.

embrgm ha"
1803,a

The facts of the case. are thus itat-d by the (hieftwr~l
°
wrhith 1t=1
Justice in delivering the opinion of the Court.
deatrntef.u,
r
f hd.i .
This vessel was libelled in the district Court of Mnas-',
sachusetts, in March, 189, for hawfvi violated the cma- blc toe, de .

SUPREME COURT U, S.
bargo laws of the United States, by sailing to a foreigii
port. The fact is admitted by the Claimanits, who allege, in justification of it, that the vessel was captured,
10.
while on her voyage to Boston, by a British armed vestl.STATES. sol, and carried into St. Nichola Mule, where the government of the place seized the cargo.
nation for gothat the Short Staple sailed
ing toaforeign It appeared in evidence
-pI.t
If a vessel be from Boston, about the loth of October, 1808, with incaptured by a stUtictions to procure a cargo of fl.,ur, and return theresuperior force
with to Boston, unless the enibargo should be removed
an
master and a before tie commencement of her return voyage, in wi ich
small for bO
Put.on board, case she was directed t0 proceed to the. island of Gmnlait is not theJoupe. At' Baltimore she took on board a cargo of
duty of the flouir and sailed t0ence for Baston, about the 28th of
of the captur- October. She was detained, s 'ieral days, in Hampton.
edvse to t-.Roads,by contrary winds. During this detention, th
tempt to rs
,cue her-for British armed vessel Ino put into Hampton Roads foe
they mayex. the purpose
of repairing
thereby
,:' some damage sustained in a
pose thevesselstorm on the coast. The Ino had been in the port of
to condemns- Boston whild the Short Staple lay then-, and had clearoalthoghs ia.ed out- for the Cape of Good [lope, tohough her real desotherwise
,oeent.
tination was J.maica. The reason her captain has
since assigned for this imposition, was that by clearing
out for the Cape of Good [lope, he. was allowed to take
on board a larger su'pply of provisions tifari wohil have
been allowed, had lie cleared out for any port in the
West Indies.
]BRIG

SHORT
STAPLE

As soon as the wind was favorable, the Short Staple,
together with another vessel, likewise bound from Bal-'
fimore to Boston, called the William King, put to seap
and was followed, by the Ino, who soon overtook.them,
and took possession of them both as pi-ize, alleging that
they were bound to a French Island. The captor put a
prize-master afid two"hands on board the .hort Staple,
anti sailed in'conipany with them until they fell in with
a Brithiih shilj of war. The captain of the Ino directed
the prize-master to meet tme ship of war, and submit to

hev orders ; while the lno, dreading that her hands

might be impressed, made sail to the windward -and escaped. After their papers had been examined, the Short
Stade hnd the William King were permitted to proceed

on their voyage, and were carried intr St. Nichola
Iole, the place appointed by the captain of the Ino for

FEBRUAffY TERM 1815.
' reeting them -hen he was separated from them by toie BUIG
ship of war. They arri*ed at the Mole about two days suooT
after parting froin the Ino, whr followed them, and en- sTArLC,
tered the port soon after them. The government of the
-.
place insisted on detaining one of the vessels, as provi- U.STIT1S.
sions were scarce at the Mole, and the Short Staple was
given up to them. Her cargo was landed tinder the direction of the government, and purchased at about S 32
per barrel. Raving received about S 1,200 in part pay
for the cargo, tie captain of the Short Staple sailed to
Turk's Island, and loaded her with a cargo of salt, Uith
which he returned to a port in, Massarlusetts, \where
his vessel was seized as having violated the embargo
laws. The William King appears to have heen carrid to Jamaiea, and there liberated without having
been libelled. The Short Staple was condemned in both
the District and Circuit Courts, and the case is brought
before this Court by-writ of error.
P. B.
tended,

zY 4"I. G. Axoty,far Ihe .ppellants., con:

i. That no law prohibited the Short Staple from gong to the West Indies; and
2. That-she was carried there by the superior force
of a British vessel of war.
1. There was no law then in force by which the brig
could be condemned for going to a foreign port.

The only embargo laws then in force which could affect this vessel were the original embargui act of 2-d
Dec. 1807. ('o. 9. p. 7,) and the supplementary act of
9th of January, i808-vol. 9. p. 0.
The first act laid cc an embargo on all ships and vessels bound to any foreign port or place," and directed
that no clearance shoull be granted for any foreign voyage; and that, no registeredor sea-letter vessel, haiing
on board a cargo, should be allowed to depart from one
port of the United Stites to another port of the United
States, unless the master, &c. should give bond in double the value of vessel and cargo, that the cargo- should
be re-landed in the United States. The act did not

VOL. IX

SUPREME COURT U. S.
JRIG
suoxrT

give any forfeiture.

Thefirst section of the 2d enmbnrgo

law (the supplementary act of January 9th, i808,) roSTAPLE, ]atcs -only to vessels ,6 licensedfor. the coasting trale."
,o.
The *ld-section
relates only to vessels licensed for the
V.STATtS.fiSheries or -whalingvoyaces.
''he Sd section enacts, that - if avy vessel" "shall,
c ontrary to the provisions of this act, or of the act to
-which this is a supplement," " proceed to a foreign
"port or place," ",such vessel shall be wholly forfeited."
If any forfeiture is given it must be by this sectionand this section applies .oly to sitch vessels as shall
violate'the provisions of this or the former act. Tho
,,,provisions of this act" do not apply to a registered
vessel, but only to licensed coasters and fishing Tessels.
The first embargo law (lid not forbid a vessel to sail to a
foreign port if she should have a clearance but relied
upon.the bond and security that the 9argo should be relanded. It was the violition of a contract not an offence
against law. It was a breach of the condition of the
bond, bmt no crime. Every man has a right to refuse
to cbmply with the condition of his bond if he will pay
the penalty. The.United States, in the present instance,
did resort to the bond. It is true they did not recover,
because the jury found a verdict against them upon the
issue of fact. But they have had their remedy.
A registered vessel could only violate the provis;ons
of. the first or, second exlabargo law, by going t6 a fo.
reign port -without a clearance; or by going to a port of
the United States 'without giving bond. A vessel Which
had a clearance and had given the bond was not forbfdden to go to a foreign post. The Short Staplc had a
clearance and had given the bond. The provisions of
the supplementary act could only be violated by licensed
coasters and fishing vescels, and are not applicable to
the present rase. The vessel did not go to a foreign
port contrary to th provisions of the act, but cbntraUT.
to the condition of the bond.
Jonns, contra.
The only questi/ns are whether the 3d section" of tho
2d embarygo law superadds the forfeiture of the vessel

FEBRUARY TER

isis.

to the penalty of the bond, for violation of the previous

law, or whether it provides a forfeiture for the violation

of a new prohibition.

MMr
snooT
sTAPLEY
V.

The expression, " contrary to the provisions of this U.STATES.
-act or of the act to which this is a supplement," mean
contrary to the spirit and intention of those acts. Tic
spirit of the former act was unquestionably a prohibition of all foreign trade. To go with a cargo to a foreign port was clearly against the spirit of the embargo. A vessel violates the provisions of the act when
she violates the bond which the act provides. The act
declares that an embargo shall be laid on all vessels
bound to a foreign port. The word embargo is equivalent to a prohibition. And the words tbound to a fo.
reign port" mean a vessel intending to go to a foreign
port--not merely a vessel ostensibly hound in such port,
But if the vessel, by violating the bond does not violate the law which requires the bond, yet the third section of the second embargo at creates a nbw offence,
viz: that of going to a foreign port. It is coupled, in
the same sentence, with the prohibition to put foreign
goods on board of another vess-l, which is unquestionably an entirely new offence, and yet, according to the
words of the act, must he done contrary to the provi.
sions of this or the former act. This shows that the
legislatur6 did hot mean to confine the forfeiture to violations of the first act, or of the tvo first sections of thp
second act.

Observed that the word embargo meant a restraint,
or crinfinement of vessrls already inp
port, and could not
affett,the conduct of a vessel after she had left the port.
If she has a license to leave the port, the embargo, as
such, cannot make her subsequent conduct unlawful..
Februaryi7th. ,Abscnt....JioHNso., . and ToDij, 3.
MAxsHA L; Ch. J.after stating the facts of the case,
4leivered the opinion of the Court as follows:

It has been contended by the. Plaintiffs in error,

SUPREME COURT t. S.
BRIG
SHOitT
STAPLE,

v.

:. That the Short Staple being a registered vessel,
and having given bond as required by law for re-landing her cargo in the United 'States, is not liable to forfeiture, if she has violated the condition of that bond.

U.STATES.

2. That her sailing to a foreign port, being under
the coercion of a forco she was unable to' resist, is justifiable under the laws of the United States.

The first error has been pressed with great earnestness by the-counsel for the Plaintiffs; but the Court is
not convinced that his exposition of the embargo actn
is a sound one. On this point, however, it will be tinnecessary to give.an opinion;, because we think the necessity under which the Claimants justify their going
into St. Nichola Molep is sustained by the proofs in the
cause.
It is not denied that a, real capture and carrying into
port by a force not to be resisted, will justify an act
which, if voluntary, would be a breach of the laws imra
posing an embargo. Nor is it denied that If such capture be pretended, if it be made with the consent and
connivance of the parties interested, such fraudulent.
,bapture can be no mitigation or the offence. The whole
question, then, to be decided by the'Court is a question
of fact. Was this capture real-was the force su~ch -a
the Short Staple could not resist? or was it made ir
consequence of some secket arrangements between the
captor and captured ?
It is contended, on the part of the United Statep, that
the circumstances of this case are stch as to outweigh
all the positive testimony in the cause, and to prove, in
opposition to it, thut the Short Staple was carried into
St. Nicbola Mole, not by force, but with. her consent,
and by proviouq concert between her owiters and the
captain of the Ino.
Those circumstances are,
i. The arrival and continuance of the Ino in the port
,of Boston, while the Short Staple lay in that--port pre.
rious to her departure for Baltimore.,

FEBRUARY TERM

ig.

2. Her clearing out for the Cape of Good Hope while
her real destination was Jamnaica.

iuuci
snonT
STArLES,

3. The continuance of the Short Staple in Hampton

Roads until the arrival of the Ino.

A. Her capture on a coasting voyage which would
not justify susuicion.
- Her being carried to a port where there iv'as a
good market, and there given up; and,
6. That the William King, when carried to Jamaica,
was also given up without being libelled.
TIhat these circumstances are some of them such as
to justify strong suspicion, and such as to require clear
explanatory evidence to do away their influence, is unquestionable. But the Court cannot admit that any; or
all of them together amount to such conclusive.evidence
as to render it impossible to sustain the defence.
That the Ino should arrive in the port of Boston
while the Short Staple lay in that port is nothing remarkable. 'It furnished an opportunity of concerting
any future plan of operations with the owners of the
Short Staple, or of any other vessel ; but is certainly
no proof of such concert. There is no evidence that
-the respective owners wero acquainted or had any communication with each other; and the wholotestimony
is positive that no such communication took place.
That the Ino should have cleared out for the Cape or
Good Hope, when h~r real destination was Jamaica, is
sufficiently accounted for. It enabled her to take on
hoard a considerable quantity of provisions, an article
in demand in Jamaica, which she Would not have been
permitted to do had her real destination been known.
This may lie a fraud in the Ino, but cannot affect the
Short Staple.
That the Ino should have arrivbd in Hampton Roads
while the Short Staple remained tliere, ind should have
followed her to sea, and have captured her, are unques*lonably ci1cumstnmeos which justify strong suspicion,

V.
U.STArTES.

62

SUPREME COURT U. S.

SHORT

and which would be sufficient for the condemnation of
the vessel, if not satisfactorily explained: but it is not

STAPLE,

conceded by the Court that they admit of no explana-

BRiE

T.
L.STATES.

tion.

These circumstances are not absolutely incom-

patible with innocence.
It is proved by testimpny to which there is no excep.
tion, ahd which no attempt has been made to discreditp
that the Short Staple was absolutely wind-bound the
whole time she remained in Hampton Roads; and that
she atteplted to put to sea before the arrivalof the Ino,
but could not. Had this capture ever been pre-concerted in Boston, the Ino and Short Staple 'would more
probably have contrived to meet on the return voyAge
of tho lattei, that to have adopted the course of the fno

waiting in port for the arrival of the other, and then
sailing Out almost together.
. The arrival of thd Ino in Hampton Roads is completely accounted for. She had suffered by the ptrils of the
sea, and put in )r necessary repairs. This fact is
proved positively, and no opposing testimony is produced.
. That the Ino shoull haver pursued the Short Staple
on a coasting voyage, and have captured her, was a
wrong not to be Junstifled. It,is said to have ben so
atrocious a tort, that its reality.is incredible. The fact,
however, is completely proved. The master of the
Short Staple swears that he Was on his voyage to BostoA I that his intention was to proceed to that port;
that he had had no previous communication with the
Ino,.and had no expectation of being captured by her,
or of 'beiuig torned out of his course. The other persons on board the Short Staple testify to the same facts,
as far as their knowledge extends. The owner of the
1no, who was on board, and her officers, swear that
tley had no previous communication with ttio Short
Staple or her owner; that there was no conceft of any
sort between them; that they were informed by 'some
person on shore, while the Ino lay in Hampton Roads
for repaiis, that the Short Staple and-the William King
were on a voyage to a French island; that expPoting

to find something which would.justify ?.ondemnation meprize, they determined to examine'those vessels, and,

FEBRUARY TERM 18i.
although, on examination, they found nlgthing to justify
capture, they still hoped that something would appear
in future; and that, at the worst, they should incur no
risk of damages, because they should carry the vessels
and cargoes to a good'market. In this confidence, they
determined to take them to Jamaica.

nii

snouT
STAPLn,

V.
U.STATfls

This disposition in the captors, however indefensible,
is very-probable. It grew. out of the state of the two
countries; and no individual who was captured in consequence of it ought, if his own conduct eontributed it
no degree to that capture, to be made the victim of it.
That she was carried info St. Nichola Mole, and
there givrn up to the government of the place, is, i1r
itself, a circumstance throwing some suspicion on the
transaction, and requiring explanatioh. The testimony
explains it. The Ino was separated from her two
prizes by a fact-which.is fully proved, and which sumcienfly accounts for that separation. That her captain
should, when about to leave them, appoint som6 near
port as the place of meeting again, was almost of
course; and that he should have relinquished one Of the
vessels to the government of the place ceases to bd matter bf much surprize when it is recollected that he could
not have much expectation of making her a prize; that,
nIn
fact, the capture was made with scarcely any hope
of condetnnation, but with a certainty that it would
produce some additional supply of provisions, and could
injure no person. The criminalty of this mode of thinking, whatever it mjght be, was not imputable to the
owners -of the Short Staple.
It has been contended that, during the separation of
the Ino from the captured vessels, a- rescue ought to
have been attempted. There. having been, during that
period, but three persons belonging to the Ino on board
the Short Staple, they might have been overpowered by
the American crew; but the attempt to take the vessel
from them waa no part of the duty of the Americans,
and might, in the event of re-capture, havo exposed the
vessel and cargo to the danger of condemnation, of
which, without §uch rescue, they incurred no hazard.
The abandonment of the WilriUm King without li-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BRio

belling ier, is the iiatural consequence et havilig bccn

SnORT able to find no circumstances of suspicion which might
STAPLE, tempt the captors to proceed against her. It undoubt-

,.

edly proves, what the captain of the lno avows, that he

U.STATES. acted under a full conviction of being exposed to no

risk by the capture, though lie should reap no advantage from it.
The interest which coastin. vessels had in fictitious
or concerted captures, undpubtedly subjects all captures
to a rigid scrutiny, and exposes them to much suspicion. 'heo case of the Claimant ought to be completely
rade
out. No exculpatory testimony, the evistence of
which ik to be supposed from the nature of the transaction, ought to be omitted. The absoince of such testimony, if not fully accounted for, would mako an imprcssion extremely unfavorahl6 to the claim. But where
the testimony is full, complete- and concurrent; where
every circumstance is explained and accounted for ina
reasonable manfier; where the testimony to the i~noceuce of the owners and crew of the vessel is positive,
proceeding from every perqon who can be supposed to
have'any knowledge of the facts, and contradicted by
none ; the Court cannot pronounce against it. This
would be to allow to suspicious circumstances -acontroling influence'to which they are not entitled.
The sentence of the Circuit Court, condemning the
Short Staple, is reversed and annulled, and the cause
remanded to that Court with directions to decree, a
restoration of the vessel to the Claimants; and to dismiss the libel.
SToRY, J stated tlat lie dissented from the opinion
of the Court aid 'adlhered to the opinipn which .he gavo
in the Court below, in which he had the concurrence of
one his of bretheren.

iSis.
Feb.

11th.

PARKER

.

RULE'S LEssF.,,

--

Jbsent...JomqsoN, .'and TODD, J4
Under the act
ERROR. to the Circuit'Court'or the district of
of
con collcrt
toWest
e Tennesseep
e
a
of ejectment,
an aqtion otss
!AJayand

