SUPREME COURT U. S.
181*5.
Feb.

TIM MARY, STAFFORD, MASTF

20tb.

Albsent....ToDD, .
The
uandem.
APPEAL from the sentence of file Circuit Court for
atsnenemy's the dist;-ict of Rhtode Island, condemning the cargo of the
prnperty, fMary, as prize to the privateerPaul Jnes.
want of a
claim, cannot

This cause was argued at last term by STOcKToN and
the Claimants, and J.WOODWARD for the
k l_ pe- Captors, (ante, -vol.8, p. 388,) when leave as given
tent for the bY jLis Court, for further proof, by affidavits, on the folprejudice the

claim ,go
ror
caT
butheri PINKNEY for

Claimant

of

the czuan to

controvert the

fact that the

vessel
was en-

lowing points;

1. As to the citizenship of X. J.Visscher.

emy's proper-

ty, so far
as
2. As to the names of the other heirs of general Fish.
that fact could
prejudice hiser, who are interested in the property ; the place of their
claim.
residence, and their national character.
One Claimant
cannot be in-

jured by the S. As to the time When N. S. Visscher, %ventto Encontumacy of gland; the olject lie had in view in going thither; how
another.
The holder oflong he resided there ; when the cargo was purchased;
,a.
bottomry and when he returned to the United States.
bond ,cannot
claim in a
Court of prize.

4. As to the iustructigns which the Paul Jonesliad on
An Amoerican board at the time of the capture of the Mary ; and partifromEngland c411arly whether the president's instruction of the 28th
in Aug. 1812, of August, 181,, had been delivered to the captain. or
fn consequence
of the repeal
come ,to his knowledge, at the time of the capture 3
of the Briish or whether the Paul Jones had been in port, after tho
,ordersin coun- 28th of August, IM, and before the capture.
vessqel

sailing

,cil,
and com-• .
A
pelled by dan.
gers of the
The captors also had leave to make further proof as
seas to put into
Ireland, where to the same points.
she was neces.

sarily detained

Th

ul April,
e further proof now offered consisted of the afidai8.,
when vits of the Claimant, N. 3..Visscher, Jacob S. Pruyn, and
ge aled a- David Gelston, collector of the customs for the port of
gain for tho

United States, New York. The affidavit of N. J.Visscher stated, in
ndertec protectiou"o•
a substance, that be, and sundry other persons, (whos6
B-itishlicense, names and-places of residence are mentioned, and whe
beingcaptured are, all citizens and residentts of-the United States,) are

.MBRUARYT TERM

8

2,

T"
the sole heirs at law and personal representatives of the
late general Grret Fisher. who died in London intes- 3MAuy,
tate. That he, in behalf of himself and as agent for the sTAmOrFoD
other heirs, went to England, (having first obtained leave MASTE.1.
from the war department, he Ueing a military officer in ---the service of the United States,) in consequence of an - thec
P AKerf
agr~ement between him and the other heirs, dated June
to the by=,=3
CmCL
9I, l18ii, (which •original
" in" agreement is aunexed
o
dite
]prct.........
affidavit.) H&arrived in England on the 22d of Auigust, .,n
o.rthe
1811, and obtaioed letters of admintstration on the.estate ti
Aug.
1811 d The
of general Fisher, 'collected the effects, converted them 28th
into cash, paid the debts, and was prepaied to remit the ,.ujy C
bance to the United States long before the war was th,.,oi
"
known in England; and was waiting for a favorable
opportunity of investing the same in property that could
be advwntageously sent to the Unite.d States, the balanco
of exchange being then greatly against him, and not being able to invest thew'hole in Unted-States'stock. That
as saon-as the revocation of the English orders in counci took place, suppobing that it would be followed by
therepeal of the non-imporation law of the United Siates,.
he gave orders for the purchase of Britisl goods to nearly the wh6le amount of the balance remainifig in his
hanas,which purchase, including thq goods nvn in questioa, was made by Harman Visger, hisagent, beore lw
-warwas known in Egland, who caused them to be sent
to Bristol to be shipped, where they arrived in July and
August; whence they were shipped early in August on
boardhe American brig Mary. That the goods were
the sole property of the Claimant, for himself and the
other heirs of general Fisher. That lie left England as
*aoOn as his business was settledg and arrived in the United States, on the i9th of October, 1812.

The affidavit of Mr. Prnyn c6nfirms that of Mt. Visgcher, as to the residence and citizenship of the Claimant,
and the others interested in the cargo.

.The affidavit of Mr. Gelston Htates the fact that a
copy of the president's instruction of the 28th of 'Auglist, 1812, was given to the cohmander of the Paul
.JToiis before she sailed on the cruize in which she captared the Mary.
1oTferther prbif wa oftlered on the 'part6f the Cap-

torn.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TIM

SToCToN, for the Claimant,

MA:UY,

s.wvaoRD,
M.sTEnL

After reading the further proof -offered by te Claimant, said lie should rest the case, in the openiugj upon
the argument formerly made.
J3.WooDwA4Dfor the Captors,
Was directed by'th.Court to show wherein this case
differs from that of the 21homnas Gibbons, decided at lust
teim, upon the effect of the president's instruttion of the
28th .of August, 1812.

The Thomas Gibbons was hn American
'WOODWARD.
vessel and sailed -so early as to be presumed to have
sailed in consequence. of the repeal of the orders in counu
cil. But we contend that the Mary, sailing from Ireland, under a British license, as late as April, 1813,
(which litense was obtained for the vessel and cargo, by
a British subject in his own name.) and laden with British goods, must be taken to be a British vessel, and not
as sailing in. consequence of the: repeal of the British orders in council, within the meaning of the instruction of
the 28th of August. But the fact that the vessel has not
been claimed, is clear proof that she was British.
The voyage frot Ireland in April, 1813, asfaras respects those instructions,is a voyage.de 'novo, whatever it
may be considered to be upon more general principles
of law.
The intent- of these instructions was to protect
American vessels and their cargoes, sailing- from En.,
giand unler the impression that the repeal of the orde;
ii4 council wouli have been followed by a repeal of our
non-importation law, and a ce.4sation of hostilities; but
not to protect vessels sailing witil a full knowledge that
those consequences had not, and probably would not fellow the repeal of the orders in council. At the time the
Mary sailed all such expectations had ceased. The in-

structions are derogaitory to the rights of war, and the

party wishing to protect himself thereby must bring himself strictly within their meaning. and intent. The. vessel and cargo were safe at Wvaterford, atid the political
relation between the two countries was then well in-

FEBRUARY TERI 181r.
derstood, there' was -no necessity of her sailing from
thence; she knew that the war was raging with ipcreas-

ed violence.

TimE

mAny,
STAFPOUD,
MASTIt.

The new license although it refers to the old one bears
a very different character. To old one was innocent
because, it was not then the license of a belligerent, and
did not give a nelligerent character to what it protected ;
-but the new had all the characters o;f a belligerent license, notwithstanding its connexion with the old. When
she sailed, she knew, or might haic knpwn, and taken
warning by the act of congress of the 2d of January,
1813. which extends the protect on or the, instructions
only to vessels sailing before the 15th -of Septembler,
1812. The instructions me.'ge in, or are controled by
the provisions of that act. A vssel coud not be proteced by the instructions unless she sailed not only in
consequence of the i'epeal of the orders in council, but
before the 15th of September, IM81.
The necessity tor a new license shews that it was a
new voyage. She was obliged to. take -new papers gni
a new clearance. But if a voyage. V. legal in its coinmencement, and before it be finishedbecom.e illegal, and
the party has an opportunity to put an end to it, he is
bound to do so. The prosecution of the voyage, after a
knowledge of its illegality, and. after an opportunity
given to abandon it, must be considerednsplacing the
party in ddicto.
If this property was purchased after knowledge oF the
war had reached England, it is liable to 'cntemnation.
The invoices are datkd the 13th of August, and the war
was known in Liverpool on the 18th of July. By the
order for farther proof the Claimant is called ulion to
prove the time 'when the cargo was purchased. No such
proof is offered. The affidavit Df Mr. Visscher, if it
could be considered as proof, does not state the time, but
merely statesin general terms that the purchasowvis made
before the war was known in England. This is not such
proof as the order requires. The proof of the fact if it
exist, is in England, why has it not been obtained ? It
is the most mater'ial fact in the case. The voluntary
affidavit of the party himself, who is so deeply interested in the cause cannot be evidence. At the last term
VOL. IX;
17

SUPREME COURT V. 9.
IM-

the Court wanted further evidence of that fact.

Tho

A.RY, have not obtained it, nor is it shown that it was out of
sTA FSomRY 9 the power of the Claidiant to produce it. It %'asin his
-WASTER. power. But it was not in our power to produce evidence
--

--

of the contrary. 'It is not probable that the witnesses
would have consented to a voluntary examination on our
part and we had no means to compel them to testify. We
rely upon this defect of evidence.
EMMETT, on the same side.
Tie condemnation of the vessel, is final and conclusivethere being no appeal. Part of the caigo is in the sanie
condition- i6o bundles of sleel, worth about i000 dollars,
are unclaimed and of course no appeal was taken and
theybelong to the Libellants. N. J. Visschor filed two
claims, and therefore had time to rectify the mistake if
any were made.
It is clear ther0fore that there were articles on board
which did not belong to N. J. Visscher, and that ho' intended to' disclaim certain parts of the cargo.
This case is nnt within' the reason of the decision ift
the case of the Thomas-Gibns. The intention of the
instructions was tq exempt thp property from capture,
not to give it an entire immunity. This could be done
only by the legislative pbwer. 'The object of the instrudtions was to suspend the prize act in this particular until the le.pisJature could interfere.. In the case of the
Thomas Gibbins, this Court, in deliycring its opinion
has conniectcd" the instructions with.the act of, congress
of 2d January, 1S, and seems to hld out the idea that
th? time of sailing of a vessel must' be limitsd to'the Ath
of September, in order to be protected by the instruc
tions The art of congress had made that definite which
the L 9tructions had left undefined, If the instructions
and the act are not thus to be connected and construed
together, there.is nyn time limited, and a vessel may at any
period of the %iarbe protected by those instructions.
Does this vessel come within those instruc.tions ? Is
she a vessel owned by citizens of the United States ? She
has been condemned as enemy'.s property. From that.
sentence there has beeh no appeal. It is conclusive,

FEBRUARY TERM1

4i86.

But although that objection seems conclusive, yet
there is a still stronger ground of condemnation. She

Tnm
MIARY.

did not sail from Vaterford until nine months after war STAFFoRIRi
was declared. Here was ample time for countermand- ztAsrhr.
iug her voyage after knowing Ihat the repeal of the orders in council %ould not produce a c, sation of hostilities. Can such a case be protected by the instructions.
The further proof furnishes irresistablc evidence of
trading with the enemy. The order for further proof
calls for evidiice of the national character of Viqscher,
and those interested with him in the claim, and of the
time 'When tite goods -were purchased, a, well as with re-

gard to the question whether the instructions wi-re on
board the privateer. It is clear therefore that the Court
were not tLen satisfied as to any of those points.
No further competeilt evidence has been produced s
to the time of purchase. The Court %ill not receive an
proof the affidavit of the interested party himself, when
it is clear that better evidence must have been in his
power. Why did he not produce the afidavit of his
agent who made the purchasis, or the bills of pmcels,
which he must have in his possession, by which to settle.
with the other heirs. These bills of parcels also would
have shown Ahethcr other parts of the cargo as well as
the i6U bundles of steel, did not belong to Harman
Visger.
But this was a clear case of trading. Visscher was
only to collect and remit the proceeds of the estate. Instead of which he goes to trading with it for his own
benefit, not that of the heirs. By undertaking to ship
goods he took the risk on himself, and if lost, he must
account to the other heirs.
It is immaterial, however, whether the goods were
purchased before or after knowledge of the war. 8 T'.
R. 5.51. the case of St. Philip cited in Potts 4- Bell, from
the IMS. notes of sirB. Simpson.
LnMIGSTON,

.

Was not this point settled in the

case of the Rapid
,-METT,

I think it was; but lest it should not

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TRE

Ldtu-T,
STAEFORD,
MASTL.R.

--1

have been, I refer the Court to the case of the J fto'w
Liisa 0fargaretha. i Rob. 170, (Aimer. Ed.) .citd iii
the case fir the i.Jop.-i Rob. 177, The Eengheid.-I
Rob. 178, The Fortuna.-iRob. 181, sir William Sxcott's
judginent in the Hoop, wherie lid does not allow an excuseo
either of ,'onvenienee or necessity.' A license from tile
government of the United States ought to have bde ii btained for the Mary, or the voyage abandoned. I Rob.
180i Thec Williaini
A distinction is attempted to be taken between this
onto ahd that of the Ralpid. It is said this vessel was
If a vessel has been in motion so far that there is 11o
opportunity of countermanding the, voyage, this disthiction might be relied upon. But here there was time for
countermanding.. Upon this point see again the case of
the Fortna. When was the Mary in motion? Wat
'was published in Londdn on the 26th of July. Tit
vessel did not begin to load till August, and did not sail
from Bristol till three weeks after knowledge of the war.
N. J. Visscher himself was present and' ni14t have countermanded the. voyago. hwch is a 'ir'unistance of gt'eat
ihiportance. 5 Rob. 1,12, (Eug. Ed.) Ji!#roo Vat ha-

*rinti.
STORY,
. 'the case of the Rapid differs from this.
She went from this country to that of tlio. enemy after
knowledge of the war.

As to the Rapid, the :c6ndemntion wai
ExvET'.
oing to the presehce, of Harrison, who might hav6
"coun'tcrmated the voyage, but did not. Whether ,the
party be in the country' at the iime of the hr-aking out
or the war, or goes there afterward is immaterial; in
each casb he is equally bkound to countermand the Voyag.. The present case therefore is precisely that of the
Rapid.
But N. J. Visscher was in England long after the Mary "putIWO Watbrford. He did not leave England till
the 7th of September; the Mary arri.Ved at Waterfbrd
in August. He knew that the vessel ihust romain there
till thf spring, and that he could slot arrive in th6 Uni-

FEBRUARY TERM 1816.
ted States until nearly a year after the declaration of Tfr.
war. Why did he not apply to the United States for a 3Afly,
STAFFOUP 1
license ?
DIASTEIL

The sailing from Waterford was a new voyage. We
are to consider the transaction, not in a commercial
po.nt of view, but as it is afficted by public policy and
national law. To everj belligerent purpose it was a voyage de noro. It is not prot ctcd by the act of congress
of 2d Fanuary, 8A3. That act riquires that the vessel
should have sailed before the 15th of September, 1812.
arid should have sailhd in consequence of the, repeal of
the orders in c.unril. 'i' act has no prospjieclr view.
Visseher knew that it ii not protect this vessel. He
traded at his peril. I Rob.. i81, The H1oop.
But if. contrary to expectations, this property shotjhl
be restored-wce trust it will be with costs. There was
no proof of property on board. She was found sailing
willi a British license dated long after the war was
known. She had sailed long after the l5th of Scptember,
anI -did not appear by any documents on board to be
within the president's instructiniis of the 28th of August, 1812. It. is not usual to give costs after an order
for further proof. If the papers withheld, had becn producetd it is probale.a great deal more. of the property
Would be found to belong to Harman Visger.
Pxx~rqY, in reply.
It is said that Mr. Visseher has been trading for his
own benefit. upon .tie funds he received. There is no
foundation for such an ass'iti'Li. The letters of Har.
man Vis.er, and. all the documents show that the goods
Were pu'rchased and shipped for the joint benefit of all
the heirs. He did the best for the interest of all concerned, according to his judgment, and agreeably to the.
agreement of the parties. which contemplates and provides for the case of his being obliged to remit goods,
and binds him to cause theiii to he insured.
Two questions arise in this case,
1. Was the Mary the property of an American citizen?.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TlE
MAIRty,

2. If so, was she, when captured, sailing in conse.
quence of the repeal of the British orders in council?

BTAFFORuD,

MASTBIL.

1.

Was the Mary the property. of an American citi-

zen ?
All the documentary evidence shews that she was ?
But it is contended that she was the property of ono
$nmith a Scotsman, and this assertion depends upon the
evidence of the cook, who says lie believed it because
Snith ordered the men about. But it appears that this
cook as shipped just as the vessel sailed.
It is said also that the stip, not having been claimed,
was condemned,' and no appeal has been.prayed, whiclD
shows conclusively that she was British property.
The reason why she was not claimed appears in the
evidence. She was hypothecated for more than she was
worth. If lost by capture the owner is not personally
liable, but if lie should claim, and the vessel should be
restored, he wonld be liable for the amount of the bottomry bond. Visscher, whd held the bond, could not claim
in his own name, for it has been decided that such a lie
on the ship wili not support a claim, anid he could not
use the name of the owner without his consent, which lie
would certainly not give to impose a liability on himself. It was his int-rest to make it a total loss. A sen.
tence of condemnation founded up'rn the want of claim
accounted 'for in such a manner, cannot surely bo cnuelusive evidence that the ship was not bont, fide owned
by an.Amnericin citizen.
2. Was she sailing in consequence of the repeal of the
orders in council?
This voyage., unquestionably had its inception in consequence of that repeal. We think this case falls procisely within the principles decided in that of the Thomas
Gibbons. But it is said that the deviation to Waterford
makes it a new voyage. That this was a continuation
of the voyage at the common law, is admitted; but not
i a Court ofprize. Why should there, in this respect9
be a difference between the law merchant and the law

FEBRUARY TERM i i8r.
Tiations ? We contend that the law of nations, being more
enlarged, is less rigid than the law merchant.
But as to prize law, the English Courts of prize always connect voyages of this kind. Coidinnity is the
favorite doctrine of a prize Court Tihe British
Courts of. prize, on the subject of contraband of war,
seem to have been enamored of this ductrine of continuity ; they condemn vessels returning with the proceeds
of contraband; thereby making the homeward voyage
the outward voyage, and the proceeds of contraband tho
contraband itself.Butit is said that this -vessel was bound on an illegal
voyage, and therefore cannot plead distress.' She actA'f
on the belief that the repeal of the orders in council
would produce peace, as all others did, and if she was
in error, coanuiunis errorfacitjus.
The president's instructions an the act of congress
go on the ground that this error was excusable.
This vessel is Within the benefit 4f the maxim izhis Def
'neminifacitinjuriamn. She.would certainly have been pro.
tected by fhat maxim. if she had been all that time drive,
about the Atlantic by storms and contrary :in,. 5. and
her case is still the same ; she was still in itin're. It is
said that the instructions were a substitute for. a legislative act, and that the act of congress has superceded
the instrctions. This we do not admit. [hey may
both stand together-their objects are different.
But we are referred to the policy of the instructions
and it is said that this vessel was not within that poliry.
The adventure was undertakee in the belief that the war
would cease; the going to Waterf-rd and the detention
there were necessary to the prosecution of the voyage.
But it is said there was lcus peniteidiw. That Visscher knew how long the vessel would he detained there,
and therefore ought to have abandoned the voyage.
There is no evidence of that fact if it were material.
But if he did know it, he knew also that thi voyage was
innocent in its inception, and that its continuity cnjild
aot be broken by this necessary deviatioii.

Tim

mny,
STAFEOnU,
MAiTEU.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TUE
MAity,
STAFFORD,
MASTER.

As to his obtaining a second, British, license, it van
necessary-; he could not leave Waterford without it. It
was not a voluntary act, He acted tnder a vis miajor.
The second license was only a renewal of the 1i rs ; if
he had authority to go at all, lie might lawfully use the
the Uihited States, lie did
neans. After his return t.'
not apply 11r an American license because lie was daily
expecting the arrival of the Mary; bt.sides he knew that
she was protected by the president's instructions.
The opposite argument is raised upon the suppnsition
that she must not only commence her voyage under an
impression that war had ceased, but must continue under the same impresiion during the whole voyage.
.Must she return, if, in the midst of the Atlantic, she is
undeceived ?
The. voyAge was commonceu under a Delie" that war
had ceased, and was cootinued under the ittipression
that she would he prtected by the instructions of the
president. Althofugh thv're was war between the United
as peace between
States and Grnat Britain. yet tl,'re v%
the United Statu-s and this adventure. This case, in
prin'ciple. is exactly that of the Thomas Gibbons.
But we are accused of not having produced sufficient
further proof of the proprietaIy intere.4t in the cargo and
the time of purchase. 'rhey say the oply evidence is the
affi;lavit-ofN. J. Vis.sclher-tistis in propria cauia. Suchc
testimony is, and always must be admitted in prize
cuises. N. J. Visscher is a'man ofChir character. But
his testimony was matter of supererogation. Every
do-ument and paper showed before that. the property
was American.
But they say that as we undertook to furnish further
proof we ought to have done s,-that we were in possession of the bills of parcels and ought to have produced them. The fact is not so, nor can it, in the nature
of commercial transactions be so. We had tie invoices,
but not the 4ills of parcels, they were the vouchers of
Harman Visger, who made the purchases; they remained in England and' it could' not be expected that we
should send there for th'm. N. J. Visseher has produced his test aiidavit, which is all that could he expected.

FEBRUARY TERlI 1±8M.
Tur
But there is an objection to the omission to claim 160
bundles of steel. By a comparison of the ships papers mAtrzl
with the claim it will be found that he meant to daidn. STAEPOI
and did claim, the whole ofthe cargo. The omissi - of SASTFX.
this item was by mistake.

The rule that every trading with an enemy subjects
to confiscation, will not, I trust, be sanctioned by this
Court.
All thp essential parts of this transaction took place
in peace, or in irnagined peace. The rule of trading
with an enemy is not absolutely inexorable.. See the
case of the .lzaonna del Grade, and the principles stated by sir W..Scott in the Hoop. The danger of treasonable intercourse is the ground of the rule. But here
was no such danger. Anothtr ground of condemnation
of goods is said to be their adherence to the enemy.
But here, Instead of adhering to the'enemfy, the goods
were withdrawn by the earliest opportunity. It was
Certainly for the interest of the United States, that the
goods should he withdrawn from the power of the enemy. - But it is said that it was contrary to his allel
giance. Is it contrary to his alldgiance to do thit, the
forbearance of which would be for the-advantage of the
enemy? Whyphould we give a new face of terror to the
principles of war ?
The case of the Rapid was essentially different. Ttere
zyas opportunity for treasbnable intercourse. She sailed from this country after the Nvar was declared. Let
not the rule be made an iron rule. It has been carried
far enough. There is not a shadow of authority for
condemnation in a case like this, where a mere remittance of funds acquired before the war was intended to
b- made at the first knowledge of the war.
All the cases cited against us, are to hibfound in tha
tase of the Hoop, except one referred to in Pottsand Bell.
Not one of them includes the present case. 1. The Iingeiid Jacob, -was a clear case of 'mercantile trading in
open war. '2. The Lady Jane. This case is'relied upon because the cargo was the. produce of goods sent to
Spain before the war. But the commercial advent-re
was planned and concocted during the war. S. The
VOL. IX.
Is

SUPREME COURT U. S.
-. ,
o1ARY.
STAPFORD.
If1q EzR.

Deergarden of Stockholm, was a case of frade with the
memy wholly originating during war. 4. The Elizoabeth
of Ostend, was anoth,r clear case of trading during war.
5. (he JuffIMw Louisa .Jlararetha.
, According to the
tafement
of this case in Bosanquet and Puller (Escot. s
case) part of the goods were purchased' long after the
war had broken outy and the adventure was projected
in the heat of the war. Ouie part of the cargo was considere, as infected by the other. 6. The St. Louis or
.E Jlleswandro. In hat case the goods were shipped in
the midst of the wai, and were bound to. the port of an
enemy. 7. In the case of the Compte de Wohrontoff, the
goods were shipped long after the existence and luowledge of the war, and in the regular prosecution of trade.
8. So in the Expedite -con Rotterdam, the exportation of

goods was from the enemies country in the midst of the

war. 9. In the case of the Bcla Guidita,the voyagC was
dire'ct to an onemy country with provisions. 10. In the
-enigheid, the voyage was to, not from, the enemy's
country, and was after the knowl, dgo of the war. In
tht case there might be .treasonable intercourse, but
here there could be none. 11. The Fortuna, was the
case of a voyage to the enemy's country, which might
have be,,n rountermandqd after knowledge of the war.
12. In the case ,of the Freeden, the voyage was also to,
an enemy's port after notice of the war. I3. In the
William, which is a case much ri-liped on by the opposite counsel, it appears in 8, T. It. 560 that the sugars in
question wore received by the British merchant's agent
froni-the enemy, after the war broke out, and were received in the course of ageeraL trade, whirh is thb fea-

ture that distinguishes this case of the NMary from all
that have been cited.
The Claimants.in tlihse cases were general merchant*
in the regular prosecution Of their trade; but ours is a
single case of accidental remittance of finds, constituting no part of a general 'trade. To this long list of
cases-sir John Wichll h Potts and Bell, 8,T. ft. 556,
has added one more-The St. Philip, in 1747, where the
lords refi.'ed evidence that the goods were bought before
the war, being of opinion that the efretq of Dritish subjerts, taken trading vith the enemy, are good prized
rTiisis certainly a hard cae..
It is very briefly staled;

none of the particular circumstances being mentioned,

FEBRUARY TERM iS1.
It does not appear how long after the hreaking out of

T=

the xxar the go( ds N ereshipped, N1Iich %%oult be a -.-ry MAnRY,
inportt nt consideration in the innoce-nce or guilt ul the sTArt.onn,

transa:ton.

MASTF.R.

This Court it is presumed will not push the law of war

to its litflz.st extent. and certainly not farther than it
has been extended by the English Courts.
As to costs. If the Mary was within the president's
instructious, the captors are not entitled to costs and
expenses.
STORY, J. When further proof has been ordered,
are not costs and expenses to be allowed of"course ?
PLxrNY,,

I think not.

Febrnary 25th.

.bsent....Tonn, J.

MAPSALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the Court
as follows:
Nanning J. Visseher, an American citizen, administrator of general Garret Fisher, deceased) \ ent to
Great Britain in the year 1811, fur the purpbse of collectig the estate of the said general Garret Fisher in
that coi.ntry, and remitting it to the United States for
those who were entitled to it by law. Immediately after
the repeal of the orders in council, the said Nanning J.
Visscher invested a considerable portion of the funds of
the said estate in British merchandize, and engaged the
brig Mary, a vessel having an American register, to
convey it to the United States. The Mary was engaged at Waolwich and came round to Bristol, where
her cargo \\ as procured. She began to take it on boayd
on the 3d of Angust, t812; and on the 1. th of August,
having completed her lading, she sailed from the port
of Bristol for the United States, having on board a
British license dated on the 8th of July, 1812. While
prosecuting her voyage she encountered such severe
weather, and received suci damage, as to be under the
necessity, in order to avoid the danger of foundering at
sea, to put into the port of Waterford, in Ireland, for
the purpose of being repaired.. While lying in Wateirr

140
THE
.MARY,
STAFFORD,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.,

ford and undergoing-repairs, she was also detained by
a generalembargo, impobed on all American vessels in
the ports of Great Britain. The Mary, being released
by the high Court of admiralty, and her kepairs being
completed, her license was renewed on the 27th of
March, 1813, and she sailed from Waterford, for Newport, in Rhode Islanm, on the 7th of the following month.
On the 2'Zd day of .'pril she was captured by the American privateer Paul Jones, captain Taylor, and brought
into Newport, Rhode Island, where the vessel and cargo were libelled as enemy propi'rty. No claim being
put in for the vessel, she was condemned ; but the cargo. which wai claimed by NanningJ. Visschi'r, for himself and the other heirs of' general Fisher, was 'estored.
From this sentence the caphors appealed. In the Circuit Court the sentence of the District Court was reversed and the cargo was coidemned. From this sentence of condemnation an app(;a was taken to this
Court, and the case was argued at the last term.
The president's instructions of the 28th of.AngubG
1812, were then for the first time relied on, but it was
not admitted on the part of the captors, that these instructiOns were known to captain Taylor. iFor the ascertainmenxt of this important fact, it was necessary to
admit further proof.
It being uncertain how this fact would appear, the,
Court also directed further proof on other points which

were involved in some degree of doubt.
It is now proved incontestibly that the instructions of
the 28th of A'ig.st were on board .the Paul Jones at the
time of the capture. These additional instructions direct ",the public and private armed vessels of the United
"States not to intercept any vessels belonging to citi"zens of the United States, coming from British porte
"to the United Siates; laden with British nierchandize,
" in cons.quenc of the alleged repeal of the British or",ders in council."
The effect and operation of these instructions were
settled in the case of the Thomas Gibbons. -The only

enq uiry to be made in this- case is, do they apply to the
Mary?

FEBRUARY TERM islP.
To sustain their application it must appear,
:1. That the Mary belonged, at the, time of. capture, sTAMvoIJVP
to a citizen 81 the United States.
A6STTL.R
Z That she was coming ft om a British port to tie
United States ; laden %ith.,Britis.h mercbahdize, in consequence of the alleged repeal of the British orders I
council.
:. Was the Mary the property of an American citizen ?
She carried an American register, whirh represented
her as the property of James D.. Kennedy, incitizen of
the United States.
She saiied from Charleston, in South Carolina, as an
American vessel, commanded by captain Stafford, a native American citizen, who continued to cobmmand hle
until her capture, and who always supposed her to be
'the property of Mr. Kennedy. Rer first license, which
'was granted before intelligence of the declaration of
war had reached'England, was granted to her as an
American vessel; and in the renewed license she waw
still considered as an American vessel.,
In opposition of this testimony is the deposiuon of
one of the mariners, who supposes one Smith,fa British
subject, to be a part owner of the. Mary, because the
captain so informed him, and .because Smith ordered
the people-about as much as Mr. Keninedy or the captain.
So much of this deposition as refers to me inforlmailion of tle captain, is not very probable; and if true,
must either discredit the captain's testimony, or be.considered as a. communication made for some particular
purpose while the vessel was in a British -port. That
part of it which states Smith to have ordered the people about as much as Mr. Kennedy, is not very intelligible, since Mr. Kennedy, the.owner of the Mary, does
not appear to'have been on board the vessel, or at Bristol, or at Waterford.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TElE
MARY.
STAFFORD,
MIASTER.

Had a claim been put in for the MAry, this testimony. opised to the pi oof furnished b the I'egistrv and
the deposition of the captain, would have been ligLt indeed.
But no claim was filed for the Nary, and she was
consequently, according to the course of the Lourt of
admii'afty, condemned as enemy property.
This sentence is now relied oi by ti-e captors as establishing the fact. The argument has b, ii'pressed
with great earnestness, and is certainly entitled to serious consideration.
The conclusive Pff,,ct which the captors would give
to this sentence is founded in part on reasoning %iA.ich
is technical, and in part on the oleration %0hichthe fact
itself ougbtto have on tlt luwan mind in producing a
conviction ti-at the claim was not filed because it could
not be sustained.
A sentence of fL Court of admiralty is.said not only
to bind the subject matter on which it is pronouneed,
bit to prove conclusively the facts which it ass, r'.
This principle has ben maintained in the Courts of
England, particularly as applying to cases of insurance,
ant has been adopted by this Court in the case of
Croudson and others va. Leonard. Its application to the
ease at bar Will e,considered.
The Mary was not condemned by the sentence of a
foreign Court of admiralty in a case prior to and distinct fron, that in which the cargo was libelled. Silo
was comprehended in the same libel with the cargo.
The whole subject formed but one cause, and the
whole came on together before the same judge. By tho
rules of the Court the condemnation of the vessel was
inevitable; not because'in fact she was British property, but because, the fact was chargedl and was not re".
pelled by the owner, he having failed to appear and to
put in his claim. The judge could not close ltis.vyes
on this circumstance ; nor could lie.
in common justice,
subject the cargo, which was claimed according to the
Pourse of the Court, to the liabilities incurred by beinz

FEBRUAAY TERM i8ib.

Il

TUE
imported. in a hostile bottom. Ia the same cause, a
fact, not controverted by one party, who does not appear, ",xny,
and therefore as to him taken for confetsed, ought not, STA-FrOR,
m"
on that implied admission/to be brought tb hear upon
--another who does appear, does controvert, and does dis
prove it. The owners of the cargo had no control over
the owner of the vessel. Visscher cotl not force Kennddy to file a claim; nor could Visscher file a claim for
him.
The evidence that the vessel wig Ameripan property
coufd not be looked into so far as respected the rights
of Kennedy, because he was in contumacy ; but Visscher
was not in contumacy. He was not culpable for, and
therefore ought not to suf, r for, the contumacy of Kennedy. That contumacy, in reason and injustice, ougl!t
not to have prevented the Disirict Court from looking
into .the testimony concerning proprietary interest in
'the vessel, so far as the rights of other Claimants depended on that interest. Nor is the Court informed of
a legai principle which should have restraird the digtrict judge from looking into this testimony. Xf we
reason from analogy, we find no principlp adopted by
the Courts of law or equity, whith in its-aplicAtion to
Coufts of adtihirdlty., would seem to subject one Claimant to injury from the contumcy of another.
A judgment against one Defei aot for the w4nt of a
plea, or a decree against one Deibnaaut for want of an
m
answer, does not prevent any, other Defeniant ft.
contesting. so far as respects himself, the vtry fact
, hich. jLadmitted by the absent party.
No feason is perceived why a diffbrent rule should
prevail in a Court of admiralty, nor is the Court intormed of any 6ase in which a differcnt rule has been
established.
If the District' ourt was -not precluded by the nonclaim of the owner of the vessel from exarainirg the
fact of ownership, so far as that fact could afflt the
cargo, it will not be contended that an Appellate Court
way not likewise examine it.

This case is to be distinguished from .Ahbso which

SUPREMn' COURT U. S.
Tna,
MARY,
STAFFORD,

.fAsTrER.

have been decided on policies of insurance, not only by
the circumstance that the cause respectihg tho vessel
and the cargo came on at the samo time before the same
Court, but by other differences in reason and in law,.
which appear to be essential.
The decisions of a Court of exclusive jurisdiction are
necessai-Ily conclusive )n all other qourts, because t
subject matter is not examinable in them. With respect to*its-If no *rlason is ierceived for yielding to
them a further conclusiveness than is allowed to th6
judgments and decrPes of Court, of common law and
equity. They Hind the subject initter ,as between parties and privies.
..The whole world, it is said, are parties in an admi,ralty-cause; and, tberfire, the whole world is bound
'by the decision. The reason on which, tbis dictum
stands will determine its ext.-nt, Every person may
.make himself a party, and appeal from the sentence;
but notice of the controversy is necessary in order'to
become'a p.arty, and it is a principle of natural 'juwtice,
of untversal obligation, that before the rights of an individual be bound by a judicial sentence,.he shall lve
notice, either actual or implied, of the proceedings
against him.. 1Vhere. these proeeedin."s are against the
person, notice is served personally, or by publication ;
wheire they are iui rem, .nrotice is served ,upon the thing
'itself. This is.,eoessarily notice td all those who hvo
any interest ii t e tfiing, and is reas'onable because it
is necessary, anrd because it is the'part of comnon pridence for all those. who have any interest in it, to guard
that inttrest by persons who are. in. a situation to protect it, Every person, therefore, who could'assert any
title to'the. Mary, has constructive notice of her seizure,
and mayffairly be con'sidered as a party to'the libel.
But those who have no interest in the vegsel which
could bje asserted in the .Court of admiralty, have no
notice of her seizure, and can, on no principle of justice
or reasqn, be considered as parties in the cause so far
as respects the vessel. When such person is 'brought
before a Court in which the fact is examinable, no sufficient reason is perceived for precluding him 'from reexamining it. The judgment of a Court of common law,
or the decree of a Court of equity, would under such

FEBRUARY TERM isi5.
TtE
eircumstances,be ie-exam'inable in a Court of common
law, or a Court of equity; and, no reason is discerned 3nuy,
why the sentence of a Cour of admiralty, under the STAFFORD,
same circumstances, should not be re-examinable in a MASTER.
Court of admiralty.

This reasoning is not at variance with the decision
that the sentence of a. foreign Court of admiralty, condemning a vessel or cargo' as enemy property, is coiclusive in an action against the underwriters on a policy in which the property is warranted, to be neutral.
It is not at variance with that dbcision, because the
queston of prize is one of which! Courts of law have no
direct cognizance) and because the owners of the vessel
and cargo were narties to the libel against ther,
In the case of Croudson and al. v. Leonard, two judges
expressed their opinions. Tlse who were silent, but
who concurred in the opinion of the Court, undoubt,-dly
acquiesced in the reasons assigned by thosej'udges. On
the cqnclusiveness of a foreign sentence, judge JAhnson
said, ",The doctrine appears to "e to rTst on" three
"very obvious eonsidrations: the propriety of leaving
",the cognizance of prize questions exclusively to
".Courts of prize jurisdiction; the very great inconcc venience, amounting nearly to an iimpos3ibilily,_nf
afolly investigating sught cases in d Court. of common
"law; and the impropriety dt reVising the decisions
"6of the maritime'Courts of other nations, Wiliose juris" diction is co-ordinajte throughout the world."
These reasons undoubtedly support the opinion
founded 611 them , but it will'be readily perceived that
they would nbt apply to the caso before the Court.
After stating the c'onclusiveness of the sentence of
Coults of exclusive jurisdiction, judge Washington said,
" This. rule, when applied to the sentences of Courts of
6admiralty, whether foreign or domrstic, produces the
te doctrine which I am now considering, upon tim
"cground that all the world are parties in an admiralty
",cause. The proceecalngs are in ren; but any person
" having an interest in the. property may interpose a
Sclaim, or may prosecute an appeal from the seutenee.
ill
'VOL. IM

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ru
HB
M1ARY,
3TAFFORD,
M.ATER.
------

"cThe insured is emphatic Ily a party, and in' every irl,
"stance has an opportunity to controvert the alleged
"gr,,unds of condemnation, by proving, if ho can, the
,' neutrality of the property. The maiter is his imme,diate agent, and he is also bound to act for the benefit
"of all concerned; so that in thid respect he also repro66 sents the insurer."

The very foundation of this opinion that the insured
is bound by the sentence of condemnation is, that ho
was in law a party to the suit, and had a full opportunity to assert his rights. This decision cannot be applicable to one in which the person to' be affected by the
sentence of condemnation was not, and could not be a
Darty 9 it.
If the sentence coindemning the Mary did not tec)mically preclude the owners of the cargo from 'asserting
in the Court of admiralty her American character, the
weight of the evidence 'on that point is to be fairly estimated.
In support of 'her American character, the documentary evidence is complete and uneqitivotal; and the corroborative testimony is calculated to strengthen a beliei
in the verity of the register. In support of her hostile
character' the omission of the owner to .file his claim is
c1iefly relied on. The importance of this circumstance
is not to be controverted. 'Its Weight, however is much
diminished by the consideration that the case affqAds no
rea.;onable ground for believing that the owner could.
have been restrained from Making his claim by the apprehension of f.iling to support it. There is no testiwony, and there i nso re s'in to suspect that any testi.
mony was attainable which could have suqccssfuliy op.
posed the i-egister. This consideration gives plausibility to the argument that the worthlessness of the vessel,
the bottoimry bond. with which she was charged# the expectation that the eodemna inn would relieve him from
that debt, might be the motwves for not resisting that
Condemnation. It is p'ssible. too, that in point of fict,
he might not have actnal notice of the' probeedings.
This is not to be in sumed, and is nt to benefit the

owner; but it is nussikle; and may be taken into the

1TEBRUAR

TERM1 1iS.

W7

account in estimating the effect of this negligence on
persons who are not culpable for it.
It has been said that the owners of the cargo, and
that Nanning J. Visscher, who held the bottoniry bond,
ought to have filed a claim. But the interest under the
bottomiry bond could not have been assertcd ; nor had
the owners of the cargo any right to the vessel. Had
they known that they weie to be, in any mannrr, affected by the character of the vessel, they might, and
m6st'probably woul d have exerted themselves to have
brought forward Kennely as a Claimant, or to have
accounted for his silence; but in the District Court the
president's instructions were unknown, and their effect
unthought of. The owners of ihe cargo, therefore,
neither troubled themselves about the vessel, no. attempted to account for the claim to her not being.-filed.
When afterwards in this Court the bearing of those instructions was discovered, and further proof was directea; that direction did not extend to proof which might
account for the failure of Kennedy to assert his title to
the vessel. This may excuse the Claimants for not
producing testimony to that point.
Upon the best consideration we have been aile to bestow upon the subject, the Court is of 6pinion that the
Mary, in this claim, must be deemed ta have been the
property of an American citizen.
2. Did she sail frim'a British port in consequence
of the allege repeal of the British orders in councilZ
That the voyage in its inception was produced by
the opinion that the repeal of the British orders in.
council would terminate the differences between the two
nations, is too clear for controversy. Had the Mary
proceeded directly from Bristol to her port of destination in the United States, the counsel for the captore
would not contend that it was not a voyage described
by the instructions of the 28th of August. Bt the delay in the port of ,Wate.rford, it is said, has broken the
cotiuity of the voyage, and in deciding on its character, the departure -from 'Vaterford, not the departure
from Bristol, must be considered as its commencement,

TnE
31A lY,
STAFORDp
SlAhTER.

sUP1IEArh
THE

MARY.
STAFFORD,
MASTEI.

COURT U. Is.

It is not denied that; in a cortimercial sense, this io
one continued voyage,'to take its date at the departure
of the Mary from Bristol. But it is utged that where
the rights of war intervene, a different cunstruction
must .take place.
The Ccurt does not atcede to the correctness of this
distinction.

The Mary was forced into Waterford by irresistible
necessity, and was detained therir by the opciration of
causis she could not control. Ead her departure been
from a neutral port, and she had been thus forced;
during the voyage, into a hostile port, would it be alleged tiat she had incurred the liabilities of a vessel
sailing from a, port of the enemy ? It is believed that
this allegation could not be sustained, and that it would
not be made. But as btween the captors and the cap•tured in this case, the voyage was, in its commencenient, as innocent as if made from a friendly port. The
detention at Watei-ford, then, can no more affect the
character of the voyage in the one case than in the
bther.
But it is said that the owners of the cargo ought to
!ave-applied to the American government for a license
to bring it into the United States.
So far as respects tle captors, there could be no necessity for a license, since th vessel was already v-otected, from tlipm by the orders of the president uner
-whichthey sailed ; and for any other purpose a license
was unnecessa-y, provided -the importation, if the voyage had been immediate and direct from Bristol, could
bl justified.
If a cargo be innocently put on board in, an enemy
country, if at that time it be lawful to import itinto the
United States, the importation 6annot be rendered unlawful by a detention occasioned, in the course of the
voyage, either by the perils of the sea, or the act of the
eniemy, unless this effect be produced by some positive
act of the legislature.
There is no such act.

FEBRUARV TERM ISi.

19

-It bas been conteiided that the act for the remudios
TU
of fines. ptnalties and forfeitures in certain cases, passARY,
ed on the 2d of January, 1813 cohutrols the. instructions STAFEJRD,
given by the presi4ent on the 28th of August, 1812, and
sAb
run.
limits the' eiperation of those instructions to~the specific
cases described by congr.ss ; and as that act pi'otects
only thos- importations which were made previous to
its passage. it has been argued that the presidcnts instructions can go no further.
Independo'nt of tl. war, all British merchandize was
exelulrd from the ports of the United Siate. by a system ,tfpolicn s's1qpised to have been founded on the
Brit'sh orders in c.auncil.
The secretary of -the treasury had power to reon'it
forfeitures incurred under these laws. When the orders in council were repe.aled, large shipments were
made of British merrhandize by American merchants
in the full confidence that the American restrictive system would fall with the orders which produced it. This
opinion and the proceedings in consequence of it, were
thought excusable both by the executive and legislative
departments of government. The president instiucted
the crnizers of the United States not to molest vessels
of this description, ",but on the contrary, to give aid
"and assistance to the same; inorder that such vessels
"and their cargoes may be dealt with on their arrival,
cc as may be decided by the competent authorities."
These instructions act solely on the rights of wvar,
and regulate the. conduct of the public and private armed,vessels of the United States.
The legislature passed au act on the. 2d of Januar3
18i3, taking away th6 discretion of the. secretary of tho
treasury, and airecting him absolutely to remit all pmnalties and forfq.itures incurred by violating the non-in
tercourse laws, in all cases nf importation made before
the passage of the act, in American vessels, provided
the goods were the property of citizens of the United
States, and the vessels departed from any port of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland between
the 2 d da of June and the ith of September then
preceding.

150

SUPREME COURT. U S.

This act does not contemplate the conduct of captors,
or the rights of war. Its sole object is to iemit certain
-TAruFoRD, penalties'already incurred by a violationof municlipal
MASTER. lawy. The legislature, does not appear to have had in
view the instructions given by the pre'sid~nt to the armed vessels of the United States, much less to have intended to control thos '. instructions,
'THE

m,,RY,

But, in effecting flese different objects,.the executive
and the legislature were impelh.,. by the .am motivethe peculiar hardship, of exposing the citizens of the
United States in such a case to the p .nalties either of
he one intrNded to protect
war, or of municipal law.
ffom capture, the other fiom firiiture, property 'which
had- been shipped in thie reasonable confidence that
peace and commercial int' rncourse Ieteeu. theo two
countries were the fruits of the repeal of the British
orders in council. The president recgnizelI the principle, but left the thne within which it stiould .operatei
to be decided by the armed vessels and by the Courts,
according to the circumstances of each case. 'rite legislature prescribed certain limits within which it should
operate. This Court, in construing, the less explicit
instructions of the president, Nith respect to the departure of a vessel fNom a .British port, has respected the
mnore explicit language of the legislature on tio same
subject. But the instructions of the president relate
only to the departure of the vessel. They do not exterd to the time of its arrival. In this respect there is
nothing to be explained. Consequently the act of congress can furnish no aid in their construction. That
the instructi6nq were intended to protect from capture
all vessels which had sailed in that c, nfidence which
was inspired by the repeal of the British orders in
council. however the voyage mi.ght be protracted, is
apparent from their language,- and from the fact that
they continued to be delivered to tie armed vessels of
the United States after the passage of the act of the 2d
of January, 1813.

It'is the unanimous opinion of the Court that the
Mary was, at the time of her capturef.prntected by the
instructions under which the captor sailed.
This opinion renders all inquiry into the character 9f
-the cargo unne( issary.

FEBRUARY TERM iSiS.
The counsel for the captors have claimed their costs
and expenses, on the ground that there was probable

cause of capture,

TnE

.1AEY,
STAF OnDy

This claim is sustained by the Court. Further proof
has been reqvired, and the latehess of the period at
which the Mary was found bn the ocean. justified a suspicion that her case was not one to which the instructions of the president extended.
-The sentence of the Circuit Court condemning the
ca.rgb of the Mary is reversed, and the cause is remanded to that Court with directions to dismiss the libel so
far as respects the cargo, and to restorc the same to the
Claimants, and to allow the captors their reasonabje
costs and expenses.

DOE,

LEssEE OF

LEWIS An WIFE,
V.

MFARLA.ND

i815.
t b

Ila

AND OTHERB.

bsed ....ToDD, J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court, for the district of Ken-itui otnes.
tat
E
tacky, in an action
- of ejectment.
,
ex.cutor or n
*U, mzde la

The case was submitted to the Court at last term, by Vwni, ,kthe
~w Plinti
WicK-i"FJbr
WVacRLIFE, for
1w
Plain~f~rtril
it error, and G. At. BiBE, vng
e r,to land
for the Defie7dants,. upon notes of an argument, and was it, Fuenky,
argued at this term, Vy C. LE.,for the 'laififfs in error. 1,utm tea.

February27th. .AbSellt....TODD,
•
• J.
MAfsn.m
as follows:

, Ch. J3. delivered tLe opinion of the Court

menttry in

. toto,
Ke
enable him
mntinf an 1P
eKh radt ra
im
Kentucky.
Ir"Ue "ihamZ

This is a writ of error'to a judgment rendered in the . I"
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of the vboic
a
Kentucky, in an ejectment by the Plaintiffs in error. .c, dee4
a ".
Ihi
ag" nst the Defendants.

