SUPREATE COURlTi U. S.
si[mxs
V.
GUTHUIE

& A..

rections to order the said CMarle.s .Simms to convey to
the Plaintiffs in the Circuit Court respectively the land
included in his patent, and lying within tl~eir several
clait-s as made in their bill, and as sto tained b) the
evidence in the cause. All which is ordered and decreed-accordingly.

181
Feb.

SPEAKE AND OTHERS
loth.

"0.

THE UNITED STATES.

Obsenlt..ToDP, J.
A bond taken
by
or
the virtue
Ist se tioa

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
Columbia, in an action of debt for 8787 dollars upon a
-e n

by the collector of
ofhhbapbond dated 14th April, 1808, tnL
la orJaua the port of Geor.getown, w4lt conition to be void if the
Ot, void
'8, alis brig
y foreign port
I Active " should not proceed to any
i/ot
tho men '"or place, and the cargo should be riAanded in siome
b. - or,4 port of the United States." The bond was executed
thaies Rf

y. peak. the master of the vessel, and by Beverly and

Thr ohi.

to deny

th1

thPCISY
e',
su.h
abid

Ober the owners of the cargo, in compliance with the
1st section or the. act of congreqs of the 9th of January,
1808, entitled . an act supplnentary to the art. entitled an act lhying an eibarks on all ships and ves&sds
:s
it,the ports and harburs of the United States."
l.

is double the
true.- ralu ofg, p. 10.
the vei

auu

CrhMf!x±nae Pr

The -Defendants having pleaded severally, sundry
pleas, upon which issues i fact. weye joined, pli-aded
beerefry
a bond and ajboitly, (after. oyer,) Ist. , that they ought not to be
Diew ofiri.-,6 charged with the debts aforesaid by virtue of the wrisrted, by ea.
sent of"all the": ting obligatory aforesaid, because they say that the
parti-,
w;i,,
said
writing obligatory vas required and taken, by
out m'akwm~the e
bond

6.

o ie 'JohnBqrnes," collector, &c. - by color of his

consent "said officd as collector as aforesaid, and by pretence of
i
b'Y boprv.
d an act of congreis. entitlel,"
act of Januaryb
arol tvi-•€
. . &c. (the
..
.
!
deiie; alio it9thb, 1808, vol. 9, p. 10,) c which .said writing obligatory
sch

is immatetld

&tand the condition thereof were not taken by the said

FEBRUARY TERM 1i5.
inference. The whole case shows that Ash retained his s1xh4s
claim to both improvements, and designed to, in'ludo
10.
both in his preoemption. They are both included inhis GorTuInI
survey. His declaration, therefore, that be meant to & :Ar.
settle at MCollon's spring, and the slibsequent building of a cabin at that spring, no more -proves which
improvement was the foundation of his title than if he
had declared a design to settle at any other place on
the same tract of land, and had carried.that intentibn
afterwards into execution by building at such place.
This Court is of opinion that .3here is error in so
much of the decree of the Circait Court as directs the
survey of Ash's pre-emption to be made on the improve.
ment commenced by MiColiom, which is at black A in
the plat to which the decree refers ; and that'the said
pre-emption right ouglitto he surveyed on the improvement originallv made by Ash himself, which is at figure
9 in the said p at. The decree, therefore, must be re.
versed, and the cause remanded to the Ciicuit Coart;
with directions to conform their decrec to the opinion
given by this Court.
The '4ecree of this Court is as follows:
This cause, came op to be heard on the transcript df,
the record from tile Circuit Court, and was argued by
counsel; on consideration where6f ti e Court is of bpinion that there is error in so much of the interlocutory
and final decrces of the said Court as directs Charles
Simmi to convey to the Plaintiffs in that Court the land
included in his patent and in the survey directed to be
made, by that Court. of the claim of the said Plaintiffs,
which survey was ordered to be made in a square form,
including the. improvement at M-Collom's spring which
is designated in the plat by the black letter A in the
centre; and that the said decrees ought to be reversed
4.nd annulled, and the dause remanded'to the Circuit
Court with dire.tions to -cause the said pre-emption
right of the said Ash ti lie surveyed in a square form
with the lines to the cardinal points, and including the
improvement originally made by the said John Ash,
senr. which isdesignated in the plat filed in the said
cause by figure 2 in the centre; and with further di-

PEURUAULY TERI 18i6.

20

,1 Sohn Barnes, colleItor," &c. ,,-lur.zuan to the said sPmARi
, act or counress, but contrary thereto in this, viz. that &,OTILWS
cc the said writing obligtry was not sealed or deliverV.
,ed by the said Robert Ober tatdil after the vessel in the USTAEs.
,condition of the said writing obligatory mentioned
, luutd received a clearance in due form from the said Col- rhirther the
c, lector, .ti after she had been, dlowoed to depart and had c"' ell . Gr
",acnaiy departedfrom the Said port of Georgetouln un- tr th-e..
dc der the dearance so as aforesaidgranted to her. h. rea- 'ut;" C2 the
c,son w1v.reof the said writing obligatory is vi anti of
",no effrct in law; and thii, the said Defendant. are
-ready to verify wherefor- they pray judgment if t'ey
on.ght to be .char.ed with the debt aforesaid by virtue
'of the writing obligatory afeamsaid."
To this plea there was a general demurrer and joinder.
2d" Joint plea. That they ought not, to be charged,
&c. ",because they say that the said writing obligatory
6c was required and takeni by one John Barnes," collector, &c. " by. color of his said office as collector and by
ft pretence of an act of congress,?' &c. (the art of 9th
January, U08) "c which said. writing obligatory" and
"the condition thereof were not taken by the said John
,, Barnes, collector as aforesaid, pursuant to the said
", act of congress, but cohtrary thereto in this, to wit:
"6that the said writing obligadt ry was taken in a sum
-more than double the value of the vessel and cargo in
the. condition of the said writing obli.atory mention" ed ; by reason whereof the said writing -bligatory be", came void and of io efrect in- law; anti (his, the
s; said Defendants are ready to verify ; wherefore." &c.
To this plea also there was a genieral demurrer and

joinder.
Sd. Joint plea. The Defendants say that the Plaintiffs
ought-not to maintain their action against th,"m, es be:, causl. they sa'v that on the loth day of April, 1808.
", at," &c. ,. the said writing dbligitory was signed and
" sealed by the said Defendants, .osias Jt. Speake, and
. Robert Beverly and a certain Ebenezer Eliason and was
4; then and there delivered to one .Iobn Barnes," collector, &c. -, fo r the purpose of obtaining a clearance for
cc the vessjel in the condition of the said writing obliga-

SUPREME COURT. U S.
sv.mKE , tory, mentioneilunder the authority of An act of con.
& OTHERS tE gress, entitled," &c. (vol. 9, p. 10,) ,4 and the said
.
6Dfendatits say that after the said writing obligatory
V.sTAT.so ff was so executed and delivered as aforesaid, a clear.
- fance wis graqted-in due form of law to the said yes,, sel, and after she had departed frim the port of
if Georgetown, under the said clearance, and while the
c; said -writingobligatory was in the custody and keep,in- of the said John Barnes," collector, &c. s the
if said writing obligatory, by the authority, consent and
"c direction of the said John Barnes collector as afore"said, was materially altered and changed in tfis,
"to wit: that the name and seal of the said Ebenczet
" Eliason were. cancelled-- and erased from the baid
- writing obligatbry, and the name, signature and seal
if of the said Defendant, Robert Ober substituted and
, inserted therein, without the license, consent or au.
,, thority of the'said Defendant, Robert Beverly, where"c by the said writing obligatory was of no force or ef
4 feet whatevpr as the joint deed of them, the said Dc.
" fendants, Josias M. Slieako, Robert Beverly and Ro.
f, bert Ober; and so the said Defendants say that the
16 writing obligatory is not their joint deed ; and this
- they are ready. to verify ; wherefore they pray judg• ment if the United States ought to have or maintain
if their action aforesaid against them."
Replication.
", That the said writing obligatory was so altered and
-f.changed," &(. ,, with the assent and by'the concur,;:ent license, direction and authority of all the said De,
"6fendants and of the said *Ebenezer Eliason,. arid not
" without the license, consent and authority of the said
,Josias M. Slieake, Robert Beverly and Robert Ober in
"c manner and form," &c.
To this replication there was a general demurrer and
joinder.
th. Joint pea. This plea was exactly like te 3d,
except that itdid not aver that the substitution of Ober
for Eliason was without the consent of any of the De-'
fendants.

FEBRUARY TERM 1816.

-To this.plea -also there was, a replication like that to sPELAr
& OTunXI
the 3d plea and. a neueral deniqrr'er and joinder.
V.

The Court.below decided all.the demurrers in favor u.sTAT.s.,
of the United States. At the trial of th6 issues of fact, a bill of exceptions was taken by the Defendants, which
stated that the attorney for the United States produced
the bond m the declaration meiitioned'and iroved its
executon by the subscribing witness, who, bein; crossexamined, by the counsel .for the Defendants, testified,
thatthe Defendants, Speako and Beverly, came to the
collictoris~office and executed the bond, but the collector
would not rant' a clearance without another obligor
when thl name of the Defendant, Ober, was mentioned.
by the other Defendants, but as he was then absent,
they proposel that ond Ebenezer Eliasoft should be ad.
ded as the thhd obligor, and. that he should sign sind
sealthe-obligation; but that a blank should be. left in its
body to be filled-afterwards .with the name of Eliason
or Ober, and th4t.,it shQulderxmain in the possssibn of
the collector for. some tirde to givo an opportunity to
Oher to execute the same; and it was understood aEnd
agreed be ve~xkthepaies- aforesaid,' that upon the return of Ober, if he should exequte the sqme, the name
and sear of Eliasoth shquld be striken out, and that of
Ober -should .be signed in. his 'stead, -mtl that Is name
should be inserted in the body o'the bond. Accordingly with this'understanding, the bond was executgd by
Speake and Beverly in.the forenoon, and in th afternoon of the same day.b Eliason, in the absenceof Speake
and Beverly, biut upon .the conditidL a.reed upon- between the collector and himself and Spe€eake and Beverly,
that his name should be e ia.ed from the bond, upon,
Ober's executing the same. After the bond was so executed, a clearancp was granted, and after the vessel

had sailed, the Defendant, Ober, came to the oflice and
executed the bond, and the blank in the body of the
bond v4s filled with. his. name when that of Eliasonj
with his sedl, was erased; at which time neither Speqke
nor Beverly was present, nor had they given any assent to the 3aid transaction .other than what.had taken
place. at the time of their- execution of the bend. The
witness further testified that it appeared from the papers in the collectors office, -that Speake was the 'soiG
ownei of the vessel, and resided in Washington county,

82

SUPREME COURT U. S.

SPEA KE in the oistrict of Columbia, and that Beverly and Ober
& oThu.is were the owners and shippers of the cargo.
V.
U.STATES.

Whereupon the counsd.l for the Defendants prayed
the Court to instruct the juvy, that if they sl.ould belit ve
that the bond aforesaid was executed aid eras d at the
periods and under the circumstances s~ated Iby the Witnxess or. his cross-examination, and that at the time of
such executin, Speake 'was the sole owner of tbte vessel, and the other Def'ndwoits. Beverly and Ober, the
owners and shippers ofthe cargo, t, y oug-,st to find the
issucs for the Defend:nts on thejoint and several pleas
of non est factum ; which instructi,.n the Cuurt refused
to give as prayed ; but at the instance of the altorney
of the United Statbs,'inistrucred them, that if they should
find from the eviden:'e that the erasure of tlin snatnre
and seal of Eliason and tlies~ubstitution of the signature
and seA of Ober, and the insertion of his name in the
body of' the obli.:'ion, was done with the assent and in
pursuance of the request and agreement of all the parties to the bond, expressed anti well understood at the
time they. respectively executed the same, then the jury
ought to find all the iesues of non est factum, joined in
this cause, for the. United States. notwithstanding it
should appear that such alteration of the liond was not
made till after the vessel had cleared out and sailed from
Ge.?getown. To which refusal anti instr.uction the
Defendants excepted, and broughttiheir writ of error.
S#,wx" and C. "LEE,for the.-Plaintiffsin error.
1. As to the first joint plea, that the bond was not
executed by Obpr, until after the-vessrl liad sailed.

The.collector was bond to take the bond before the

sniliing'o the vessel.

When an othcr is authorized -by

law to do an act he can only do it as the law requires.
Th law must be ronstrued strictly, and strictly purslied.-S call. 421. If the defect had appeared upon the
face of the. bond this case would be clearly in our favor.
Oi, case is analigous to that )f a sheriff who may take
bail hef'ore the return of the writ, but not afterwards.
2 M1itty's leading. 478. So in the case.of, a sheriffs
bond in England, if not taken according to the statute
it is void-2 Saaund. 00. After the departure of the yes-

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.

sel the power of the collector to take the bond ceased" OAIZL
The cases all show that such an averment may be made. & oTnEu,
1 Lord Ray. 349, Pullein o. Butson. 2 Wils. 3-7, Cal
V.
lins -D.Blantem
V.STATUS.
2- The same argument applies to the 2d joint plea.
The law.authorizes a bond to be taken in only double
the value of the vessel and cargo. If the ofllcer requires
a bond in a larger sum, he exceeds his authority and the
bond is void.
3d, The third joint plea and the bill of exceptions,
present a question of great importance ; shall'a parol
agreement authorize an officer to make a naterial alteration in -asealed instrumen? The consequences of such
a doctrine would be most dangerous.- If one party) can
be thus substituted for another, why may not the sum
be altered ? "hy niotthe whole instrumeut lie clanged ?
Why may it not be discharged by paro'l ? Why Way not
an entirely different contract be .substituted. It is in
direct hostility to the rule of law that a sealed contract
cannot be denied, nor varied, nor discharged by parol.
The bond was not- delivered as ai eWroi'. It was delivered to the only agent of the United States authorized to receive it. It then became complet4,ly executed.
No material alteration could be made qven by the consentof all the parties, if that consent was evidenced
merely by parol. Even if it had beei expressly delivered as an escrow, yet if delivered to the collector, it
could not be as an escrow. A bond'cannot br delivered.to
the olige as an.escrow. Riddle v.Aross, aiite, vol. S.p. 351.
By the delivery it became absolute and binding upou
4l the pariea. A discharge of one was the discharge
of all. 9 Co. 137, Tliroughgoodfs case. . Co: 27, Ilenry

Figot's case. - It is of no consequence whether the namnd

of Eliason were material-or not. An immaterial alteration by the 6bligee avoids the bond. No parol underl.
standing or agreement of. the parties can prevent a
material alteration from making the deed void. Ore.
.1Iz. 627, .Marklum -v. Gonaslon. The replication .adnits the erasure and alteration, but relies on the fact
that it was done by the consent of all the parties. No
subsequent parol consent can vary a written instrument
under seal. There would -be no safety if such a doeVOL. IX.
5

SUPREME COURT U. S.
"SPEAKr trine should, prevail as is necessary to support this re.
& OTHERS plication. Thv're would be no safety in a sealed instruV.
moent if the. sulysequent agreement, or even the underU.sTArEs. standing 9f the parties at the time of its execution, could

be given it evidence by iiarol4 to vary the instrument.
JoNEsy contra.

t. :As to the first plea. The law does not require the
bond to be given beF're the departure of the veusel.
By consent of the parti s it may be given afterwards.
The plea, states that ont, of the obligors executed tlo
bund after the vessel had sailed. There is nothing Ii
thela;w to mike the deed void for thatcause.
2. As to the second plea. The obligors are estopped
by their bond from denying the value of the vessel and
cargo. The bond in their own voluntary act. They
have.agreed to the value. If the question of value were
open after giving the bond, it would lead to endless
litigation.
's. As to the erasure. There is- no authority which
ics.
forbids such, an, alteration by the consent of all pare
In the case in Croke, the alteration was made without
consent of parties. It is immaterial whether the consent he prior or subsequent.

February i6th.....qbsent TonD, J.
STORY,

.. delivered the opinion of the Court as,

fellows:
This is an action of dobt brouglt upjon a bond given
ifiider the f est section of the embargo act of the Dth of
Jan. 1808. I. 8. After oyer of the bond and condition,
various lpleas were pleaded by the D.,fendants ; but it is
unnecessary to consider a'ny others than those upon
which questions have been argued at the liar.
The second separate plea, of the Defendant, Robert
Ober, and the first joint plea of all the Defendants alleges, in substance, that the bond wac taken by the collector of the customs at' Georgetown, by color of his
offluv, and by prelence of the act of congress afo'ebaidy

FEBRUARY TEII i815.
and thit the bond and condition were not taken pursu- spEAr.
ant to the act of congress, hut contrary thereto, in this, & OTHEnn
to wit: 'that the bond was not sealed or delivered until
V.
after the vessvl in th same condition mentionvd had r.sTAT.S.
receive.d a cleitrance in due form, and after she had actually departed from the port of Georgutown, under the
clearance, by reason whereof tLe bond is void.
To this plea there was a general demurrer and joinder in demurrer; on which the Court below gave judgment for the Uuited States.
It is argued by the Plaintiffs in error, that the act of
-congress of the 9th of Janurary, i1808, sec. i, huving declared that no vessel licensed for the coasting trade
shall be Wllowed to depart from any port of the United
States, or shall receive a clearance until the owner, &c.
shall give bond to the Uuited States in a sum double
the value of the vessel and cargo, &c. the time of giving
the bond is of the essence of the provision; and that if
the bond be not taken until after the clearance or de,
parture of the vessel, it is ilegal and yoid.
We cannot yield assent to-this argument. In our
opinion, the statute, as to the time of taking the bond
and granting a clearance, is merely !Iirectory to the
collector. It is undoubtedly his duty to comply ith the
literal requirements of the statute. If lie wrglect so to
do, it is an irregularity which may subject him to personal peril and responsibility. If the state of facts has
existed to which the statute provision is applicable, the
authorit to require and the duty to give the bond attaches; and. by the voluntary consent of the parties, it
muay well be given wunc pro func. Upon any. other construction, -the owner of the vessel mnight be involved in
great difficulies.. If the collector be not authorized to
receive the bond after a clearance, neither is lie authorized to grant a cleara ce before he has received-tho
bond. A clearance, therefore, granted before such bond
should be given, would be illegal and void; and a departure from port under such void clearance, would
subject the owner, vessel and cargo to the forfeiture in,
flidted -by the third section of the act. There is no et,
ror in the"udgment of the Court below in this plea.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
sPEAKE

The second joint plea oflthe Defendants,'aleges tial

& OTnEuS the bond was not taken pursuant to the act of ctngressp

v.
U.STATES.

but contrary thereto, in this, that the bond was taken
in a suni more than double the value of the vessel and
cargo, whereby the-bond became, void. .On d'emurrer
to this plea and joirider in.dvmurrer, the Court below
gav e judgment for the United States ; and we are of
optmon tnt the judgment so given ought to be aflirmed.
There is no allegation or pretence that the bonq was
unduly obtained by the collector, colore oFicii, by f'rau
oplression or circumvention. It must, thereforep be
taken to have been a voluntary bona fide bond. The
v7alu was a-'matter of tuicertainty,.and the ascertaiq~ing
of that'value was the joint act and duty of both parties.
When once that value was ascertained and agreed to
by the partie.9, 'and a bond executed in conformity to
such agreement, the parties were estopped to deny that
it was not the true value. If an issue had been taken
upon th6 fact, the evidence on /ite face df the bond
vould have been conclusive to thejury ; and if so, it is
'not less conclusive upon demurrer. It woul be dangerobs in the extreme to admit the parties to avoid a
sealed instrument by averring that there was an error
in the vhtuo by an innocent mistake, or .by accident, or
V circumstances against "whieh no hutilan foresight
cQuld guard. A mistake of one dollar would be as fatal as Otten thousand dollars. Stppose the d6uble valio
were under'rated, could the United States avoid the
bond, and theroby subject the party to the penalties of
the third'soction ? W iere the law provides that the penal sum nf a bond shall' be e'qual to the double value,
and the parties vohuntarily and without frafid asgent
t6 thi' insertion of a given sum, -it isas much an estoppel as if the',bod had specially recited that such sum
was the doubl talue.
The tbhil'd joint plea in substance alleges that after the
bxfcution of the bond, anl after the clearance and dopartiue-of' the vessel fnd cargo, the bond was,' by th6
authority, cdnsent and directibn of the collector, materially alteredl and changed, iW this that the name of
Eb~ifeze Eliasoon was cancelled and erased fromtlie
•bod, and "the name,'signature ant goal of the Defend'ant. Roberi 0be', ''ubstitqted ahd "Inserted thereiri,
without the license, consent, or authoritr of the Defen-

FEBRUARY TERM 18i5.
dant, Robert Beverly, whereby tle, bond became of no srEtHE
fo ce. J o this plea the United States replied that tile & OTlIEnS
r.
bond was so altered and changed with the assent and
by the concurrent license, direction and authority of all r. STATES.
the Defendants, and of the said Ebenezer Eliason, aud
not without the license, cofis'ent and authority of the.
Defendants, and prayed that the.same might be enquired
of by the country. To this replication there was agejneral dcmurrer andjoinder in demnorrer, on which tht.
Court below gave judgaient fnir the United States: and
ve are of opinion that th.ejudgnenc was right. It is
clear, at the common law, that an alteration or addition
in a deed, as by adding a newlobligor, or an erasure in
a deed, as by striking out aft old obligor, if done with
the consent and concurrence of all the parties to tile'
deed, does not avoid it. And this principle equally applies whether the alteration or erasure be made in pursuance of an agreenfent and consent prior or subsequent
to the execution of the deed ; and the cases in the books
in which erasures, interlineations and alterations in.
deeds have been held to avoid th-m, A ill be found, on
examination, to have" been cases in which no such consent had been given.
It has been objected tliat this principle of letting in
parol ev;dence'fo prove alterations in a deed to be made
by consent, exposes to all the mischiefs against iihidlh
the statute of frauds.was intended to guard the public.
If this objection wefe valid, it would equally apply to
such alterations when made bcforet1.e execution of the
deed; for if not takeih notice of by a memorandum on
the deed itself, they must be proved in the same manner. - But it is to be considered that the parol evidence
is not admitted to explain or contradict the terms o' the
written contract, but only to ascertain what those written terms are. On non est factumn, th6 present validity
of the deed or contract is in issue; and every circumstance that goes to shew that it is not the (Iced or contract of the party, is proveable by parol evidence. It is
of necessity, therefore, that the other party should supportit by the same *evidence. The fact, that there is
an erasure or inerlineatidn apparent on the face of tle
deed, does niot, of itself, avoid it. To produce this eCfeet, it mu t be shewn to have been made under circumstances that the law does not warrant. Parol evidence

SUPREME CORT U. S.
SrP.uKE is let in 'for this purpose; and the mischidf if any)
& OTHERS Wouldequally
T.

U.STATES.

press on both sides. The prinjiple, how-

ever, which has been already stated, is tpo firmly fi:ed
to be shaken by any reasoiing oh iucoO12ent.
The decision upon the third joint plea rendere it unnecessary 'to examiffe the bill of eeceptions taken at the
trud on the issue of von-cstfabitm. That bill presents
the same point as the tl:ird joint plea, with this dibference only, that the alteration' in the deed by the addition
of a neW obligor was, n fact, made in pursuance of an
agreement entered into between the parties prior-to the
original exccuti6n of the deed.
On the whole, the majority of the Court are of opinion
that the judgment of the Court below must be affirmed,
LYXGST0oN,'•K

In dissenting from the Court in i(F

judgment ox! the issue of law arising out of the third
joint plea, I can only sa-y,.that I am not prepared to admit that every alteration whatever hi a'deed, afterlits
execution, for such is the extent of the opinion juat giwv
en, may be proved by parol testimony. After perfect,
ing a deed in one form, no material alteration liould be
set up unaccompanied by a new deliver~y, and a note or
memlo'andum the'reof; otherwise, a bond, which is peoved
by a subscribing witness to have been 'actually given
for only one. hundeed dollars, may be converted into'
one for. as many thousand, if the obligee can only produce a witness who will say that he umerstood Ihe ob.
ligor as assenting to it. The only case which 1 havo
been able to find of those cited, such is the diflictilty of
piocuring books in this place, is the: one, in-Levinz, p,.
I, 35, which establishes that affer the delivery of a
bond. a n w obligor may be added in this way ; not that
the name of one may be struck out, Ind another substi.fixted in his place.. 'Without denying the authority of
the -case, piy answer' to it is, that such addition might
he of benefit, but could .not injure the first set of obligers; Ind thercibre the Court inight feel less difficulty
In admitting such fact to be proved. It is,therefor'e,
.ointcrference with this decisin, to say, that nQ change
whatever iv a sealed instrument, after its execution,
which may increase -the Ihibility or be, in.any %%iy,to
the 'prejudice of the party whobo deed it is, (and such

FEBRUARY TEIM. ifit.
is the case here) shoul4 be palmed on him by parol tes. sruz
timony ; aid so, 'vice wJAa.nthat no alteration which & OTHERS
may be, in any way, injurolbs to the grantee or obligee,
V.
should be set up by the other party; but that the terms V.STATES.
in which the deed is originally oxecuted should alone be
binding, until alterations are introduced into it by the
same solemnities which gave existence to the first.
Such, in my opinion, is the salutary rufle of the common
law; and therefore I think that thejudgient of the Circuit Court ought to be reversed.
BAEsHALL, Ch. X.

Was rather inclined to' think that the plea was good,
which stated that thie Gond wa giveif for more than dogble the value of the vessel and cargo. If the bond was
given for moretlian double that value lie thought'it was
void in law.
He should not however have intimated his opinion on
this point if a.dissenting opinion 1'ad not been given on
another p6int in the cause, and his silence might tiavo
been construed into an assent to tlhentire opinidij of the
Court as'it had been delivered.

TABER -v.PERROTT AND LEE.
Feb.

14th

Absent....ToDD, ".
ERROR to the Circuit Court for' the.district of RhodeA
Island, in an action of assunpsit to recover from the De.....
fen,lant's Perrotl and Lee, the amount of certain bills of of .x
cn
exchan.ge put into their hands., to collect, by the Plain- blnk itiff Taber and his deceased partner, Gardner.
liven itto ti
to deliver
to C.
f.ir
€llectin,

At the trial below several excaptibns werq taken, in anti
nhecal
tc p-e
tected
Which the following
0 fa6ts appeared.
the amount
to
the edit ofA

The Plainhlff produced a vifness, Tohn., )loss, who anrd U,inabeing'aerduly
and sworn testifid, that Messrs.
i.
c.
ad admitted
Grnat
rLmerchants of Rhode Island, werec msautthoLi,
Gardner,
Taber and

r"-

