SUPREME COURT U. S.

4..6
181 6.

PRATT,

AND

OTiArES, Origival Cow1nlaiants,

February 2d.

THOMAS LAW,

AND

WILLIAM CA1MPBELL,

OriginalDefendants.

THOMAS LAW, Oiginal Conn lainant,
PRATT, AND oTIRS, Original Defcldanls.

PRATT,

AND 0TUE1RS,

Orizgnal Complaiuanls:'

WM. M. DUNCANSON, AND SAMUEL WARD,
Original Defendants.
AND

WILLIAM CAMPBIELL, Original (ouiplainaut,
'V.

rRATT, AND' OfThUS; AND DUNCANSO0

AND

WARD, Original Defendants.

THESE several suits in chancery in tho Circuit
Inthe salesor
lo s, in the city Court for the county of Washiington, in the'district of
or ls lg- 'Columbia, being involved in each otlier and relating to
.. ot caealei'r their
proportion of

the same property, were liard and. ai'gtued has one cause.

thw..i,,tern -if- The first of these suits, in the order of time, was that
|ey lait out for of p2r(tt and others v. Duncanson and Ward, which was
encfitoi'tlose instituted on the 21th of March, 1801. The bill pIayed
lts; altlough that Duncanson and Ward might be enjoined from sellwhich
soang certain squares in the city of Washington,
thacthcm
has been her-- h'ad been mortgaged by 4orris, Nicholson and Greentof?, - U. rer- leaf, to Duneanson, to indenmify film against the return
siy aequiesoed in by pur-

of certain bills oftexchange'wbich lie hai drawn for their
part
a purchaser
taken
been
had
alleged,
was
it
hasaecliziese,
1 whereof, viz: 17,600,
ehtse.v; awl ifaccommodation, to the amount of 112,000 sterling, a

up by 1rWard, who claimed payment from Duncanson, and
persuaded him to advertiz-e the mortgaged property for
anec accord- sale. The bill iflleged that although the bills had been
inify, without taki up by Ward,' he had done it as the agent oh Greenobijecajon. yet
hp does uot leaf. one of the mortgagors, and with his fuds; and
in hatpactlec
ed a

neiy-

FEBRUARY TERM I85.
prayed for general relief. The squares which were PnATT
thus niortgaged to Duncatsoh, were included in a pre- & oi'ms
o.
vious mortgage to Thomas Law.
LAW
The next suit in order of time, was that of Pratt and & cAtwothier.s -. Thomas Law anl Wilam Campbell. The bill BE..
was filed on the 14Uh of December, i804.
thereby ac- -

Its ohjects were to compel Law to release to the quirea re

Complainahts, who were assignees of MIorris, Nicholson "Pitin -ueh
of

and Greeifleat certain squares in the city of Washing- proportibn
aaley, ne
itF,,
ton which had been mortgaged by them to secure to n1Y,
him the conveyance of certain lots and squares, in the m
same city, which they had contracted to convey to him, tnoney ubhit
and which he was to select f:iom a larger number which therefor
they bad purchaked of the commissioners of the city ; ifapur&.ar
to compel Law to complete his selection; and to vacate 'f ty ! : 7
certain releases made by him, at the solicitation of 1WiLalta
Campbell, who had attached the equity of redemption of.e ,me,

some of the squares, which were included in tie mort- ry trnl l
gage to Law.

purek-ed,
or
to th:proporad
etio
d re-

The third suit, in the order of time, was that of T'hol ceve, conveywas Law -o P raWrld othrs. The bill was filed on the :es thu
4th of Octobir, 1805, and its object was to foreclose other F=
the mortgage given to secure to Law the conveyance" of is not bou d o
build in pro2,400,000 square feet of land in the city of Washington, oa tt
a.greeably to a certain contract between him and Arorris, tots conveyed,
Nicholson and G reenleaf; because about 400,000 square un the
feet, which Law contended he had selected agreeably to ber rcreyed.
his contract, hadnot been conveyed to him.
itwouhi be di

The last of these suits, in the order of time, was that fievit to a-er.
of Willialm Canq&Ul -v. Prattand othiers, (assignees of ti h nir
Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf,) awM
. 1.Duncan- the breth+of
son mu Samuel Ward. The hill was filed in June, 1806, co"rd,
.ortum in daanid was in the, nAture of a bill of interpleatler. Its oh- the
n'M by
ject was to obtain a release, from Duncanson. of the.!Wdrthe tmortgage..ivenmor~age~lvento
to him
', ',
hm by
b Morris, Nicholson and Green- J"m[
ntpereted,
leaf, to indemnify him againmt the return or certain bills thn courtt-Il
of exchang e drawn by him fbr their a'ccommodation, and not uredrte
which Campbell allegedi had been taken .up by them, or inpry nor the
some of them - which rele.a se, if made, would "enure to &ae , nor
tin
I-s
the bemefit of Campbel.. in as much as he had attached, direct
,timu
and under the proceedings upon the attachment, had vificltus.
VOL. IX.
58

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RTT purchased Morris and Nicholson's equity of redernp&'OTHERs tin.
I,.

LAw

In order to understand the argument of counsel, and

& cA.N-

theopinion of the Court, it may be necessary to state

n.., more minutely the'allegations of the parties.
Where-a Lon-

The bill of Pratt and others against Law and Camp-

stated that Morris, Nicholson and, Greehloaf, on
the 3d of December, 179-,, gave to the Defendant, Thohah been in
part executed i=s Law, their bond with condition to convey to him in
bya
conveydays from that date, "2,190,000
ance of partof fee simple within'90
wihi
the land, and 61 square feet of land in the city or Washington, the said
tract for the -bell,
sale of lanti

the
vendor
unable
to corl. c. Law having paid them the sum of five pence Pennsyl.ivania currency per square foot, for the same."
re-the residue, a court of

deequity will

rer'the re- .

Trhat on the 4th of Decemher, 179-1, (tile day after the

payment of a date of the bond) a written agl',emcnt was executed bepropfwtonate
tween the 'sa'ne parties,
by which,relacvnue
(after reciting tie
part ot the
~at
purchase ms-bond) MIorris, Nicholson and Gveehleaf, covenanted
|iey with inte- that if Law should, within 18 months, be displeased with
rest.
Ifjhree per- his purchase, they would return him the purchase moony,

with interest, at the expiration of that term. And Law
that if, within the saint, term he should finalderann.y the ly determine to keep the land, he would, within 4 years
drawe of bills fromithe tine of such determination, cause to be built on
-of exchar.ge
drawn for
every third lot, or in that proportion, one brick dwelling
zons

mortgagg

tbeirdont poL-covenanted

the'raccor-in
modation,
case n pr

test; and if
bof

thetht'

house, or 6ther brick building, at least two stories high;
the lots were supposed to average 5,265 square feet

each.

The bill further charges that Law did, witmin

limited time, elect to keep tile land, and thereby be-

agrer- to tAke came
npa
t ment

liable to build the hous es mentioned in the agreeof the 4tl of D'ecember, 179, but had not bitlt
on heirreturn them. That on tile 0th of March, 1795, the parties
uridti lrotst, entered into another agreement, by which Law was " to
tben if two ot
have his selection under his contract of the 4th of Dctotakeup
,cember last, in all squares in which the said Jrorris
theirs wo
6c and Greendeaf
thrds. where~. have a right of velcclion, excepting water
by the other is property, and exceping such squares as are now al,noilggors i ,p.opriattel, or respecting which the said Morris,
n, lted
to c Nichelson and Greenleaf have made arrangements, a
hole o te c"list of which 4quares is lkereunto annexid." By the
bsu,
1in ofs" same agreoment Morri., Nicholson and Greenleaf covewhich he re- nanted to mertgage t9 Lav other squares and hof which
quests the
were then in their possession, until they could give him
'

FEBRUARY TERM i815.

a good title to such property as lie might select; Law PrnATT
agreed to give up his right to return the property, and & OTUEELS
T.
therebymade the purchase absolute. He als9 agreed to
select by squares and not by lots, and to close his selec-

LAW

tion withhn 90 days from the date of the agreement, and & cam-"
stipulated that the houses which he was to buildshould DELL.
b9 such houses as .Morris ana Greeldeqf were obliged to drflerut
build by contract with the commissioners.
I .etile to
"
The bill further states that Morris, Nicholson and toho'

Itfor

Greenleaf, agreeably to that contract, on tle Ith of Sep- hi benflit, a
tember. 1795, mortgaged to Law 857 lots, and 3,333 is tlfireby

t upon
square feet of land, the condition of, which mortgage -re

was, that Morris Nicholson and Greenleaf should pay pro. yto
the penalty of the bond, or, agreeably to its condition tliamentcr
and to the contract of the l0th of March, 1795, convey tu i-s of
to Law, in fee simple, with general warranty, 2,100,000 vo7 or that
square feet in the city of Washington.

=

ro.,

tit Wh le.

W e.
That Law selected about 2,000,000 square feet, but Qu-?
ther ain making his selections violated his agreement of the quent incunk.
l0th of March, 1795, by selecting lots in squares from brntercan

a pri.
comlw|
hitumr- .which he was excluded by that agreement, to the injury or

of.Greenleaf who never assented to such seleftion.

cer td Me=

the ona cratin uh!h he

-That Law had obtained titles to about 2,000,000 ofQ1-efa-th,

square feet, and that there remain to be conveyed to him not- of the
about 400,000 square feet, when lie shall have complied =Lbh 1,.inwith his contract of selection, and when lie shall have cuhtnct:

built the stipulated number of houses.

Anded.

redc.niptian

That on the isth of.Mlay, 1796, Greenleaf conveyed Pr r-e=t
to ]Robert Morris and John Nicholson, all his interest in i lhble to 2tthe city of Washington, excepting three squanrs, ,,and tachment.
;c excepting all such lots, lands or tenements as 7were either
cc conreyed or sold, or agreed to be conveyed by aff or either
" of them, the said Greeideaf, Jforris and Yokichason, or
",any of their agents or attorniesto auy person prior to the
"oth of duly, 1795."
That on the 26th of 3ue, 1797, Morris, Nit'bolson
and Greenleaf conveyed all their interest in the city of
Washington to Pratt and others: the present Complainantq.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
That Law, knowing the Complainant's interest in the
:PRATT
& oTHBRS property, and with intent to injure the Complainhults.
and to benefit the Defendant, Campbell, on, the 4th of
V.
September, and 5th of October, 1797, exceuted two deeds
LAW
& oAmx- releasing to Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf, part of
BELL. the mortgaged property, which had been attaqhed by
Campbell; which releases were executed by Law with
a full knowledge of the interest of the Complainants in
the mortgaged property; in defiance of their express
prohibition; and with a fraudulent intent to vest the
legal estate in Morris and Nicholson so as to give effect
to the attachment of Campbell. That Campbell had engaged to indemnify Law for that act. That the releases were executed without the knowledge or consent of
Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf, or either of them, and
were never delivered to them or either of them, but
were put on record by Law. The Complainants pray
that those deeds of release may be vacated and annulled.
They state that they are ready, able, and willing, to
carry into effect the contracts between Law and Morris,
Nicholson and Greenleaf, and to do every thing that in
justice and equity ought to be done on their part; but
that Law has refused and neglected to build the houses,
and to make his selection within the time limited, and
out of the squares prescribed ; has violated his contract
in setting up a claim and keeping the property mortgaged as a collateral -security for making him titles to
property, which titles he has prevented by refusing to
select the property, &c.
The bill requires Campbell to state when, from whom,
and atwhat price lie obtained the notes of Morris and
Nicholson, upon which his attachment was issued; and
prays, for general relief.
The answer of Law admits that he had received conveyances for " about 2,000,000 of square feet of ground
under the contract, but not within the time stipulated 0" it
states the number and kind of houses which be had built;
denies that he was bound to receive conveyances with a
condition to build ; tife building contract being independent of the contract to convey the land. It states that
lie was induced to enter into the building contract, by
the contract which Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf had
entered into with the commissioners, and others to build

FEBRUARY TERM iiS.

,1

alarge number of houses, which contract it avers, they

never complied with.

ru&T

& OTHEIES
V.

It states, also, that Morris and Nibholson assigricd LAW
Law's building contract to the commissioners of the city, & CA31rand that the present Complainants are not the assignees iFra .
thereof, nor have any interest therein ; and that if they
had, their remedy is at law and not in equity.
With regard to the releases of Sej texpber and Octoher, 1797, he says that the mortgaged property Nps
more than aample security ; that Morris and Nicholfon,
were in' 1797, generally deemed bankrupts, that their
creditors were suing out attachments, and he thought it
unjust to keep covered, by his mortgage, from fair creditors, a property so much more than enough to secure
his demands, and thierefore executed those releases.
He admits that Campbell gave him a bond of indemnity,
but denies that he received any compensation. He admits als6 that one of the Complainants desired him not
to execute them; but he disregarded the rquest.
Exceptions -having been taken to this answer, Mr.
Law fied an amended answer, in which lie insists that
he was released from his building contract because he
had not r6ceived titles for all the lots ho had purchased;
or that, as he had originally'fotr years from the date of
the contract, to complete his buildingd, and was to have
had his titles in 90 days, he ought to be allowed four
years from the time of receiving hi titles. He affirms
that he made his selection, within the time limited by his
contract, and exhibits a copy thereof. He avers that by
the contract of March l0th, i79, he had a right to select as 'vell from, the property which Greeideaf had contracted to purchase in his own name from D. Carroll,
as fromthat Which .llorrs awl Grcenleaf had contracted
to purchase from the commissioners ol the city. That
on -the l4th of Marchi 1796, after much trouble and'
vexation he received his first conycyance of a part of
his lots, amounting to 773,[22 square feet; to obtain which he had to release to Morris, Nicholqon
and Greenl~af a part of the mortgaged property, viz.
squares No.465,468,469,170, 495, and498.
e avers
that any variation which may appear between his original selection and the squares afterwards conveyed to him,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRAr was occasioned by the slow compliance on the part of
& OTHERS Mo'ris, Nicholson and" Greenleaf. with their contracts
IV.
with Carroll and the commissioners. ile states that
LAW'
they gave him full liberty to make another silection of
& CAMP- any lots within their purchases or contracts4 and refers
.BzLL. to Morris and Nicholson's letter to him of the 17th of
-September, 1796, in which they say, "c you may select
"t by squares out of any that are within our selection, al" though not chosen by you already, except water pro"cperty, or where we have since your selection, or be".fore improved on, or contracted for the sale of that
-vwhich you desire; and we wish you now to name the
,squares, as the selection and titles shall be completed
"for you without delay."

That in consequence of that letter he made another
selection including other squares, and on the 20th of July, 1797, received another conveyance of lots from the
commissioners containing 1,1-12,0684 square feet., That
lie also r~ceived a debd dated January 28th, 1797, 'lirectly from Moris and Nicholson, for 128,223 square
feet, the title to which has since been decided by the
chancellor of Marylknd, not to have been in them but
the commissioners of the city.
He also states that after receiving these three conviyances "lie had selected to have the residue of what was
"cdue conveyed to him 'out' of the half of square 713,
"square 699, and square 696, containing 314,829 squiare
efeet, which, if the deed of January 28th, 1797, had
" remained good would have 'been near the quota to
"c which hewas entitled ; but the said squares, or the
,,proper portion ther'eof never were copnveyed, though
"cthe 4aid Morris and Nicholson frequently promised so
",to do. That the said Squares were a part of the pro-.
,,perty which they had contracted to purchase of ti
,,,.'sa-d
Carroll accordiig to their contract of th 26th of
cc September, 1793 ;' (a copy of which isexhibited and
appears to be a contract by Greenleaf alone, with Carroll.) He refers to a letter from Morris and Nicholson
to him of the i9th of March, 1797, in which they say
,,.we are equally anxious with you to get Mr. Carroll
"v.paid on his (Mr. Carroll's) account, upon our account,
"dand upon your own account; and yet with all this anx,,iety we do not agree to sign the articles, which were

FEBRUARY TERM I85.
".handed us yesterday; our objections thereto will be PFATT
"cfiled. But to make your mind at ease on the subject & oTruns
"cof the property to be cnveyed to -yqoby WIf.Carroll, and
v.
"c ours at ease aboitt getting our property released from
LAW
"your mortgage, which it then ought to be, we propose & c7Arac-to enter into a contract, with penalty; with You, to fix nExx.
cc a limited time within which the moneyshall be tendered to
",0Ir. Carroll,say-in six weeks, and on your part to covecc nant therein, that upon so doing you will release to us
,our mortgage when Or. Carroll makes the riles." )Ic
refers also to a letteifrom Mr. Morris to bin of the 2ist
of June, 1797f, in "which Mr.. Morris says, c I am in
",pursuit of money for .31r. Carroll and expect success,
"c but I hope, when it comes, he wil not plague himself
",and embarrass us by a refusal of it. He otight to
"chave had his money, a~nd I have piways lamented that
",we could not pay it when due? but certainly we will
" pay as soon as we can."
The answer then avers that Morris and Nicholson nver'paid the purchase money due to Mr. 'Carroll, nor
in any other respect complied with the contract vith
him, whereby they forfeited all right to the purchase of
the.troperty therein mentioned, and disabled themselves
from conveying to thd Defendant, Law, the property he
had so selected. That one oC the. purposes of the deed
of assignment under which the Complainants claim title,
was to pay Mr. Carroll IS,000 dollars due upon that
contract, whereby it became their duty to pay that sum
so as to obtain titles.for the Defendant, Law ; but they
never did pay that sum to Mr. Carroll, and it is not
now in their power to comply specifically with the contract between the Defendant, Law, and Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf.
To this answer-exceptions were also taken,-and the
Complinants, Pratt and others, filed an amended bill,
in which they contend that the Defendant, Law, had not
made his selection ip due time and manner according to
the origpial contract; that, therefore, the Complmnants
might now satisfy the balance of the contractb., a conveyance of such lots as they should deem proper; au4
under that 'itea had tendered to Mr. Law a conveyance for the quantity pf,lail which be. had a right to
cldim.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
That by the original contract Mr. Law had a right
PRATT'
& OT ERS to select ohly out of the property.whici .Ionisazd.G'eenV.
leaf had contracted to purchase from the comnissioners;
LAW
for that was the only contract which gave them a right of
& CAMP- selection.
BELL.o

The Complainants also contended that, if, upon Mr.
Law's failure to select his lots within the time limited,
the right of selection did not revert to Morris, Nicholson
and Greenleaf, yet he was bound to close his selection in
a reasonable time, and before Morris and Nicholson had
completed their selection under'the contract of Xforris
and Greendeaf with the commissioners; and that, after
closing their selection, they were not bound to convey
to Mr. Law, any lots not selected by them, or not before
that time selected by him and notified to them. They
admit that although Mr. Law bad forfeited his right of.
selection, yet Morris and Nicholson, being desirous of
gratifying him, and of stimulatin.; him to make the stipulated improvements, caused to be conveyed to him, by
deeds dated the 11th of March, 1796; and the 20th of
JTuly, 1797, 1,935,008 square feet of land, without annexing thereto the condition of building which they had
a right to insist upon, including thereini sundry lots, not
within his right of selection, whereby lie obtained more
valuable lots, and on better terms than he was entitled to
under his contracts.
They aver that they are the bona jhlc purchasers, for
a valuable consideration, of Morris, Nicholson and
Greenleaf's equity of redemption in the mortgaged property, without notice of any agreements or transactions
between them and the said Law, other than those which
appear on the face of the bond of the 3d of December,
179-,, the agreement of the Ith of December, 1794, that
of Mardh 10th, 1795, and the niortgage of the lth of
September, 1795; and are not in equity bound by any
other agreement; if any such exist.
They further state that the legal estate of the mortgaged premises, never was in Morris and Nicholson, or
either of them, but was in Greenleaf alone. That after
Greenleaf had sold to Morris and Nicholson his interest
.n the Washington lots, being largely their creditor, lie
caused all their propefty in the city to be attached by

FEBRUARY TERN 18i15.
process, issued under the laws of Maryland, on the 2iat PRATT
of April, 1797, which attachment was for the benefit of & OTIILlS
the Complainants, and was laid on the same property
-0.
'which on the following day wan attached at the suit of LAw
the Defendant, Campbell, which attachment, in favor & c& rPof Greenleaf, was continued until and after the 26th of BELL.
June, 1797, when Morris and Nicholson assigned and
tfansferred to the Complainants for a valuable consi4eration all the attached property ; whereupon Greenleaf's attachment was dismissed by consent of the parties, inasmuch as the Complainants had, by the assignment, obtained all the benefit which they could have obtained by prosecuting the attachmentto judgment of
condemnation. They aver,,therefore, that if the Defendant, Campbell, had any equitable claim to the property
by virtue of his attachment, the Complainants have a
prior equitable claim by virtue of their prior attachment.
But they aver also that neither Morris nor Nicholson
ever had such an estate in the mortgaged premises as
could be the subject of an attachment at law,, or as could
be condemned at law, wr as could be seize& and sold under a fier! facia.s; and that the Defendant, Campbell,
had iotice of the Complainant's legal and equitable title when-he purchased the property,
That if Morris and NIcholson had any equitable interest therein, it was subject to the duty of dbing'justice to Greenleaf, the legal proprietor, by paying all
they owed him, before the trust as to tiem would be decreed to be performed; and if they had an equity of redemption in the mortgaged lots, alid if any thing was
seized, condemned ind sold, under the said Campbell's
attachment, it could be only the right which Morris and
Nicholson had to redeem the said lots, by conveying to
Mr. Law the balance of property due to himf and by
satisl ying all equitable claims which Greenleaf had upon them. And that if the Complainants should be compelled to convey to Mr. Law the balance of property
which he claims, the Defendant, Campbell, can have
no right to the lots as against the Complainants ntil
he shall have satisfied them for all the property which
they shall have been so compelled to convey to the DeVOL." IX.
59

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PrATT findant, Law, and shall also have satisfied all equitable
& OTHERS claims of Greenleaf upon Moi'ris and Nicholson.

V.
LAAw
& CAMP-

mEL-L.

The Claimants further state, that they have been in.
formed and believe that the attachments of the Dofendant, Campbell, wcre fiunded upon notes of Morris and
Nicholson, purchased upon speculation at market, and
at a price far below tieir nominal value; and they contend that Campbell could not, in equity, recover, even if
lie had a prior lien upon the lots, more than the. bona
file actual value wvhich he gave for the notes, with legal
interest thereon. They call upon him to state what consideration he gave fbi the notes; an(d at what price lie
purchased in the mortgaged lots at the sale under tho
f.,fit. issued upou thejudgmen. on his attachments.
The answer of the Defendant, Campbell, disclaims all
benefit and title under or by virtue of the releases executed by the Defendant, Law, at his request; but
claims to hold entirely under the'judgment of the Cojirt
of appeals of Maryland upon his attachments ; and refers to his bill of interpleader, (as he terms it)and the
transcript of the record of the Court of appeals of Maryland exhibited therewith; by which transcript it appears that the attachments were issued mi the 21st of
.April,1797, by virtue of the act of assembly of Maryland, of 1795, ch. 56, entitled i a supplement to the act,
entitled an act directing the manner of sutng out alachtrnis in. thigs province and iftiting the ex~tent of thein ;"1
and commanded, the sheriff"i to attach, seize, take and
i saekeep all the lands, tenements, goods, chattels and
ccredits," oTRobert Morris, which should be found in
his bailiwick, "to the value of, as well the damages
- aforesaid, as," &c.; and to have the same before trie
judges of the general Court, &c.; then and there to'be
condemned; according to the act of assembly aforesaid,
to the use of the said V. Campbell, unless the said Roburt Morris should appear and answer to the said William Campbell in a plea of tresspass on the case, &c. according to law. The sheriff was also commanded to
make known to the gariishees that they appear, &c. to
show cause why the lands, tenements, &c.should not be
in
condemned, and execution thereof h a and'made ias
other cases of recoveries and judgments given in -Courts
of record according to the directions of the act of assem-

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.

467

bly aforesaid, &c.. The like process was issued against rnATT
& OTHERS
the property of Mr. Nicholson.
0.

On the 22d of April, 1797, the sheriff levied these at-

LAw

tachments on part of the property included in the mort- & CtAMP-

mage to Law, and particularly set forth in the sheriff's
return.

On the return of these attachments, Morris and Niih.olson appeared by attorney, and upon argument, the
general Court quashed the sheriff's return; whereupon
Campbell took a bill of exceptions which .stated thht
the Plaintiff, Campbell, offered in evidence the (Ieed or
the l3th of May, 1796, from Greenleaf to Morris and
Nicholson ; whiereby Greenleaf conveyed to them all his
property in the city of Washington, excepting 3 squares,
and excepting all such squares, lots, lands, and tene"ments, as were either conveyed or sold, or agreed to
"be conveyed either by'all or either of them, the said
"Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf, or any of their
"agents prior to the 10th of July, 1795." That Campbell prayed condemnation of one moiety of certain
squares, particularly described, as the property of Morris, and the other moiety as the property of Mr. Nicholson. That Morris and Nicholson offered in evidence
the mortgage to Mr. Law of the 4th of September, 1795,
which included those squares; and that Campbell offered in evidence one of the releases of Mr. Law, dated
the 5th of October, 1797, to Morris, Nicholson and
Greenleaf, which are mentioned in the bill of Pratt -and
others -P.Law and Campbell, Morris and Nicholson then
offered in evidence the deed of trust from Morris, Nicholgon and Greenleat ,o the Complainants, Pratt and
others, of the 26th" of June, 1797, conveying to them all
the right and interest of .M.rris, Nicholson and Greenleaf ifi the city of Washington ; and proved that the
aforesaid deed of release from Mr. Law, to Morris
Nicholson and Greenleaf, waq lodged by Mr. Law alone,
in the proper office to be recorded ; and that it was executed by Mr. Law with a knowledge' of fie aforesaid
deed oftrust to the Complainants, against their will and
express prohibition, and without the knowledge or assent of Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf, or eithiel of
them; whereupon the general Court of Maryland was

BELL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRv.r of opinion that neither Morris and Nicholson, ior
& OTHEPiS either of them, had ",such an estate in those .squares,
-V
,,whereof the rIlaintiff could have judgment of conXAW
,,demnation."
& CAMUpon this bill of exceptions the cause was carried to
U_._, the Court of Appeals of Maryland, who reversed
the
judgment of the General Court " as to the land contained
" in the return of the sheriff of Prince George's Coun"-ty ;" and adjudged "$that the lands and tencmnents so
, as aforesaid attached, that is to say;" (&c. describing
them) c be condemned towards satisfying unto the said
se William Campbell, as well the said sum of," &c.
- and that the said W. Campbell have thereof execution,"
&c; - Wheretp)6n execution issued f'oih the Court of Ap- peals, returlable to the General Court." This execution was a secial-fieri faeias, which after reciting the
ttachuit, the sheriff's return, thejudgmeot of the GeAvral Court, the Writ of error,' and the judgment of the
Court of Apieals, commands the sheriff of Prince
George's County, that of the lands and tenements attached, (describing the .quarcsj, &c.) he cause to be nade
the damages and co~ts, &c.

Upon this execution the sheriff sold the attached prop.
erty to W. Campbell the Plaintiff, for a comparatively

small sum.
Under these proceedings the Defendant, Campbell, in
his answer contends that, by the laws and constitution
or Maryland, his title and interest in the said lots is con.
elusive upon all the world, and that the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of Maryland cannot be opened. ,He
admits, howeve', that lie acquired by those proceedings,
no more interest or title than M1oriis and Nicholson had
in the property at the time or the attachment, and that
Mr. Law's mortgage was a prior incumbrance ; but denies that there is any other lien or incumbrance thei'con.
He contends that he has a right to redeem tile lots from
that mortgage on any terms which should be agreed
upon between him and Mr. Law.
le affirms that the
Complainants knew of his attachment when they took
their deed of assignment of the property.
Hodenie
thattie Complainants had any valid attachment, prior to
his. He admits that Morris and Vicholson had only an

l.
FEBRUARY TERM 1815
equitable title in the lots at the time of his attachment. xAr -,
He admits that he knew of the assignment to the Corn- & oThrais
plainauts when Mr. Law executed his release, and at the
V.
time lie purchased the property under his attachment.
LAW
He demurred ioso much of the bill ai charge(I that

& cA3rp-

lie purchased the notes of Morris and Nicholson, (upon
which the attachment issued) on speculation, t o low
price, and to so much as required him to state what con.,

sideration lie paid therefor. To this answer the Coin..
plainants excepted, because the Defendant. Campbell, did
not answer that part of the bill to which he demurred.

The bill of Lazv against Prattand others, stated tie

bond of Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf of the 3d
December, 1791, to convey to him 2,100,000 square feet
of ground in the City of Washington ; the agreement of
the 10th of March, 1795; and the mortgage of the 4th
of September, 1,95. That he had received conveyances
for 7.73,12i square feet on the i-4th of March, 1796 ;
for 1,112,'J681 square feet on the 20th July 1.797 ; and

for 128;223 square feet by a subsequent conveyance,
the title of which last mentioued quantity was defective.
That Morri- and Nicholson, having obtained all the
right, title, and interest of a/lthe joint property ATM.
N. & G. in the city of Washington, in the year 1797 became insolvent, and conveyed the same to the Defendants,
Pratt and others. That neither bl. N. & G. nor the Defendait.q, i 'att and others, did procurefrom the Camissioners of the City of Washington, a good, clear, and sufficient title to the property, out of which ithe Complainant,
Law, had the the right of selection ; so that although'ho
made his selecfion, and requested a conveyance of the remaining 4.00,000 square feet, the Defendants refused to
.convey the same, and are unable to comply with the engagements of M. N. & G. witl him. Wherefore leprays
a decree that they should pay hin the original purchasemoney of five pence, Pennsylvania currency, per square
foot for the amount of square feet unconveyed, with interest, from the 3d December 1791, by a certain day ;
and in default thereof, that they should be foreclosed of
their equity of redemption ; and for general relief.
. The joint and seeral answer of the Defendants, Pratt

Brn.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
and others, admits the bond of 3d December, 1791, the
agreement of the loth of March, 1795, and tile mortgage
V.
of the 4th of September, 1795, which, it is averred; was
executed to remedy a defect in a former mortgage ol' the
LAw
& CAMP- lith May, 1795. TJhe Defendants also produce the agreeThey admit that
BrLL. ment of the 4,th of December, 1791.
the Complainant, Law, had received good titles to
L,9l5,l89& square feet in part compliance with tie condition of the bond ; and that the title to the 128,223
square feet was defective. They admit that M. N. & G.
became insolvent and conveyed all their interest to these
Defendants as trustees for certain creditors.

PRATT
S OTHEns

They do not'admit that either they, or M. N. & G.
were ever bound to procure a'good title to all the propertylout of which the Complainant had a riglitto select;
nor that he made his selection within the time limited
by the contract of the loth of Mareh, 1.795 ; nor thal
they, or.M. N. & G. ever refused to convey to him any
jiroperty which he had a right to demand under those
agreements.
They say that they have been inforined and beligive
that the Complainant, Law, never made a deflnite and
final selection of lots to satisfy the condition of the bond;
but,' without authority or limitation of time, assumed the
right of varying hi choice from time to time according
as circumstafices indicated a prospect of increasing value, and did not confine himself to the property, nor to
the terms contained in the contract of the l0th of March,
1795. They admit, however, that Morris and Nicholson, as a matter of indulgence, acquiesced in the selections thus made, as far as they had the ability to convey
the lots so selected.
They contend that upon the Complainants having
failed to make his seleetion within the limited time, the
right to select reverted to M. N. & G. and that the Corn
plainants, as their assignees, had a right to select and
tender a conveyance for the balance remaining unconveyed ; and that they had done so, but the Complainant
refused-to accept the same.
They contend also that the Complainant is not entitled to relief in equity, until lie !hall have complied with

FEBRUARY ,TER

85.

471

his agreement to build sertain houses according to tie RATT
agreements of the o4th of December, ±791, and loth of & orznus
-.
March-, 1795 ; and they aver that the damage they have
sustained by.r6ason of his not h aving built the houses,
TAw
exceeds tWe value of the property remaining to be con- & cAMtveyed to him.
JAnLL.
Thej claim th6 benefit of his releases of certain parts
of the mortgdged property, dated March fitth, 179- Sep-tember 4th and 0lctober 5th, 1797, copies of which they
exhibit, and
They deny, iii general terms, that the mortgage is rorfeited or the condition thereof broken.
After replication to this answer, the Complainant, Law,
filed an amended bill stating in substance the same matters which are contained in his answers to the bill of
Pratt and others against him.
To this amended bill, the Defendants, Pratt and others, filed their answer referring to the proceedings in
all the causes before mentioned, and praying that the
whole may be considered as one cause. They aver that
the building contract constituted a material part of the
consideration in the sale of lots to the Complainant;
that the assignment of that contract to the conln'ssioners of the city, by Morris and Nicholson, was not valid,.
and did not exonerate the Complainant from his obligation in equity to perform it. They proceed to state %ith
more minuteness the facts and transactions stated in their
original and amended bills against Law and Campbell.
They deny that Morris and Ntciolsou could authorize
the Complainant to make a new selection so as to embarrass the mortgaged property, or to disable themselves from complying with the term.; of the mortgang-e
whereby subsequehit incumbrancers, whose rights accrued before such new selection, could be defeated.
Thewdeny also, that they are bound by any agreements between the Complainant and M. & X. of which
they had not notice at the time of tile assignment to
these Defendants.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRATT

The Complainant having in his amended bill stated

& OTHERS that he had solicited to have the residue of what was duo

T.
YAW
& CAmP-

--

I;=,

to him conveyed out of half of square 743, square 699j,
square 696, square 730, and the square north of 697, the
Defendants in their answer deny his right to select either of those sjuares.. As to the square 743 which is the
only one in which Morris and Greenleaf ever held any
definite interest, they aver that all their interest therein,
consisting of one moiety thereof has been conveyed to
him. That as to the square 696 and 730, the Complainant was express.y prohibited from selecting them by the
contract of the 10th of March, 1795 ; and that neither
of the squares 699, 730, 696, and north of 697 are mentioned in the Complainant's selection of December $th,
1795, nor in any former selection pretended to have been
made by him ; that neither of those squares ever belofi6.
ed to M. N. & G. or either of them, nor are included in
the .6000 lots bought by Morris and Greenleaf of the
Commissioners, or have been apportioned to them or
either of them, or can of right be claimed by them, or
either of them, under any contract.
To this answer there was a general replication.
The bill of Pratt and others, against Duncanson and
Ward, was originally filed to obtaif an injunction to
prevent Duncanson from selling certain quares which
he had advertised for sale under a mortgage dated the

12th of Seiptember, 1795, given to him by Morris, Nicholson, and Gieenleaf to indemnify him'against the return
of certain bills of exchange which he had drawn for their
accommodation for 12,0001. sterling, 7,6001. sterling# of
which had been taken up by the Defendant, Ward, with
the funds of Greenleaf, and the residue by Greenleaf
himself; ind to obtain a conveyance of those squares to
the Complainants! who were the assignees of Morris,
Nicholson andGreenleaf's equity of redemption. tThose
squares were all included in the prior mndrtgago to ihouias Law.
After Duncanson and Ward had filed their aiswers.
and testimony had been taken in the cause, by which it
appeared that the facts stated in the bill were true,
CA.kSIrELL filed a bill against all'the parties
WILLII
to the cause, viz : Prdtt and other's, assignees of Morris.

FFBRUARY TERI 18:15.

Nicholson aild Greenleaf, anit D wiCaSson and Ward, in -rnATr
which bill, (which he calls a bill of interpleader,) lie & OTIMUs
sets forth his attachment of ftie squares included in the
V.
mortgage to Duncanson, the condemnation thereof by
x.Aw
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland, & c.ir(while the city of Washington was under the jurisdic- DBLL.
of Maryland,) thefierifyctas issued upon that judgment,
and his purchase of the squares at the sheriff's sale;
whereby he avers lie acquired the equity of redemption
of those squares. He states that the bills, mentioned in
the mortgage had all been discharged by Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf or one. of them, or with their funds,
and the property thereby exonerated f and prays for a
conveyance thereof 'to him; and for general relief.
The Defendants, Pratt and others, in their answer,
admit that they have heard that thb Complainant, Campbell, claims the lots mentioned in his bill, by virtue of a
pretended judgment of condemnation upon certdin pre..
tended attachments issued upon certain pretended claims
against Morris and Nicholson; but they deny the validity
ofthoseclaims and ofall proceedings rounded thereon; and
aver that if any such judgments of condemnation have
been obtained,they wereoltained, as they believe, byfraud
and imposition practised upon the Court rendering such
judgments, by producing to such Court certain pretended deeds of release fraudulently executed by Thomas
Law, (meaning the releases mentioned in the bill of Pratt
and othersv. Law and CampbelL) They aver that they
.were not parties to such judgments,, and can not be
hound thereby. That the proceedings exhibited by
the Complainant appear to be proceedings at law?, and
41ot in equity ;'.and therefore, that ifthe Gomplainant
has any title under those proceedings, it must be I title
(itlaw, and his-remedy is at law and- not in equity;
and that no proceeding by these Defendants against
Duncanson and Ward in equity, can injurg the -Complainant's title at law, ifany he has. They thefore
deny his right to relief in equity, and corttend thati
the
'Court, as a Court of equity, ihs not jin-isdiction iii the
ease stated by the Complainant in his bill. They do
not admit that ny valid attachment was laid ow the
property jbefrIe the assignafent from AT. N. & G. to
them. They aver that on the day before the date of
Camnpbells attaclment. Greenleaf, being a large Cedi.

VOL IX.

60

471

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

PRATT tor of Morris and Nicholson, 'caused attachments in his
& OTHERS name, but for.the use of these Defendants, to be laid on
the same property ; which attachments remained in full
T.
force (if the property was liable to ateachment for the
LGAW
& CAMP- debts of Morris and Nicholson) until and after their asBhELL.

si-nment of their interest therein to these Defendants,

when -they, having by the assignment obtained all the
benefit which they could have obtained by prosecuting
the attachments to judgment of condemnation and sale,
caised the attachments to be dismissed. And therefore
that if Campbell could claim any title in equity under
his attachiuents,' these Defendants have a prior claim in
cqtuity by virtue of their prior attachments, and the assignment from Norris, Nicholson & Greenleaf. They
deny that the legal title was ever in dorris and Nicholson, or either of them, but was in Greenleaf alone, until
convey.ed to Thomas Law by the nortgage of the Ith of
September, i795, in whom it remained until his releases
of the 4th of Septembe'r, and 5th 'of October, 1797, which
releases, if valid, enured to the benefit of these Defendants.
As to certain squares contained in the mortgage to
Duncanson, viz..the square ca-it of 51-6, the square cast
6f 5-i,7, the squares 5!9 and 596, the sqtrare east of
596, and the square 597, they aver that long bieforo
Campbell's pretended attachment, viz. on the -10th of

June, 1796, Morris and Nicholson conveyed to the said

Greenleat all their interest therein for a valuable consideration, since which time M. & N. hive. never had

any interest therein.
They aver that the Complainant, had notice of all
these facts at the time of his purchase at the sheriff's
sale under his attachment.
They coutend also that if the Complainant could, by
any process at law, attach the tquity of redemption, yet
lie can have no remedy in equity, unless he has o~re4l

and can show himself able to redeem the property by a
compliance with the contrAct between Law .and M.
N. & G. which he has not done.
They say they have heard, and believe that the Com.
plainant's pretended attachments were founded on notes

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
of M. & N. purchased in market at a great discount as rn.At
an object of speculation, with a view to take tile chance & OTUEUS
v.
of such an attachment ; and they are advised that if the
Complainant should in equity have a prior lien on the L&I
property, he could not claim, in equity, (as against these & QA31rDefendants who are boma fide creditors of _M6rris and nEa.
Nicholson, and purchasers of their equity of redemption
for a valuable consideration, and Avho are s.:eking for
satisfaction 6ut of the saime fund) more than the amount
of money actually paid by the Complainant, for the
said notes and bills, with lawful interest thereon.
One of the Defendants, John Miller, junior, assignee
of Greenleaf, under the _R~nbrupt law of the United
States, answering separately, for himseli, statesthat the
bills for li2,000 sterling, in the bill nentioned were sold
and the proceeds thereof equally dividaed between lorris, Nicholson and Greenli af, each of whom were bound
in equity, as well as by agreement to take uxione third
of the amount, if they should come back protested.
That th y did'come back*protested; that Morris and
Nicholson wholly failed to take up any part the o1r
but the whole %as paid by Greenleaf with his own separate funds. and that Morris and Nicholson are still
indebted to him -for two thirds of the amount of the
U2,000 sterling, with interest, charges, damages and
costs of protest, and were also otherw;su largely indebted to him at the time of tle attachment. That upon taking up the bills, Greenleaf informed Duncanson
-thereof and forbade him to release the mortgage, on his
intimating a design so to do, and requested him to retairr the same as a security to him, (Greenleaf) for the
two thirds of the amount of the said bills, which Duncanson agreed to do; and thereby became in equity a
trustee of the mortgage for the benefit of Greenle-f;
and this Defendant as his assignee claims a right to
stand on the same equitable ground as Duncanson would
have stood upon if the bills had not been taken up, so
far as respects two thirds of the amount of the. bills,
with damages, &c.; and therefore to have a prior equity
to that of the Complainant, if any lie has.
There was evidence tending to show that Mr. Law
made a selection of squares within the time stipulated.
And that the public property in tose sqnareg, A hiih

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRATT Morris and Greenleaf had contracted to purchase of the
& OTHimtS commissioners, was more than sufficient to satisfy 11r.

v.

Law's contract. That the commissioners had conveyed
to.him about 2,000,000 of square feet; and that it was
& eAmp- pt'obable they would have conveyed the relnaining4100,000
nEp=.
square feet, also at the same time, if Mr. Law would ha%e
taken them out of the squares contained in his first selection. No tenderhowever was madetohim of thebalauce
out of those squares, and there was evidence that Mlorris, Nicholson and Greenleaf, had acquiesced in Mr.
Law's claim to have part of thib property which Greenleaf had contracted to purchase of Mlr. Carroll, although
neither Greeileaf nor Mforris and Grecnleaf,,over had
any any right of selectiou in that property. There was
also evidence that it was the universal practice of the
commissioners, in selling lots, to charge each lot with
its proportion of the alley laid out for the genexal benefit of the lots in the squares; and that such practice
bad been uniVersally acquiesced in.
mAw

With regard to the opinion of the Court of Appeals
of Maryland, 6pon the subject of Campbell's attachinent, there was evidence that the counsel for Morris
and Nicholson had written a letter to judge Runivy, the
ihiefjudge of the Court of Appeals of larylanud, requesting to know the extent and ground of the opinion
of the Court upon which the.ludgment was rendered
and received from him the following answer:
"The Court of Appeals signed a regular judgment
" under their hands. It does not contain the point up"c on which they gave it; but my brethren thought the core"nantfir a quiet einjoyrentS -was a (casefor years, vhich
cc was (in interestsubject to attachment, and this ifinucied
cc theirjudgment and they ga'e it accordingly. The opic nibn, (whether a fee simple, or an 'estate for years)
cc will not alter the nature of the judgment, which, in
,c my opinion, ANill be only of such interest as the party
"had in the estate, auid, f tried in ejedctment, can only
,, operate so far. I own, privately I was, of opinion
"c that an attachment ought to lie agaifist a mortgagor's
66 interest, because he is considered, in chancery, as th'e
" The mortgage from Morri, Nkeholqnn and Grcenh, if to M'. Law,
enntiiaied a covenant thnt they should quictly nijov thu mm tgtnicd propcrlo)
ntitl the condition of the mougag, should Lieln.;ken.

FEBRUARY TERM im.
" owner; because I would not send a man to chancery
nAT'T
- in so plain a case where there ought to have been & oTimns
v.
"c conformity in law; and because all men would secure
" themselves under this artifice. This also was agreAIW
" able to the practice of the iy of London, where an & cAm,- equitable interest is attachable. But on this thLejudges BFix.
- gave 1w opinion. Stfficient to them was it, that in their
", opinion any interest was attachable, and upon eject"c ment this would have been disclosed.

cc In conformity to my opinion I pointed out a case or
"two, that was in my common place book, to Mr.
"Shaaff, that indicated an equitable interest attachable.
", But this was done as an individual, not as a judge;
"but, being at the time of judgment, he might have
,c mistaken. At the same time I remarked, and do so
"now, that the distresses of my family and my own
" state of health, were such that I could not be so much
"master of the subject as I wished.
"You were wrong in delaying opening the points so
cc long, in'which you obliged the Court to give a judg",ment so late in the cause. And wherein is theirjudg"'ment, (hastily obtained) better than that of other
- Courts ? It quite destroys the use of a Court of the
c last resort.
c I have opposed, I shall hereafter oppose, this prac"tice totis virbus., ergo caveto.
"'There is no impropriety in asking the Courts opi,c nion; they always wih their sentiments to be known ;
" and will, I hope, in a land'of law and liberty, always
cbbe willing to disclose them when required.

"c1 am, &c.
" st March, 1801.'"
These causes having been heard .together as one
cause, the Court below decreed as follows:
In the case of Pratt and others v. Law and Campbell,
" That tfe Complainants' bill be dismissed."

SUPREME COURT U. S.
:PRATT

& OTHERS
v.
iw
& CAMPBELL.

In the case of Law v.Frait and others, that the Defendants should pay to the Complainant on or before
the ist of April, 181', 925,832 88, being the original
p-irchase money for the part not conveyed, with interest from the 3d of December, 1794., and in default thereof, that the mortgaged property should be sold to raise
the same, &c.
In the case of Prattand others v. Dnveanson and Tlrrd,
no decree appears to have been inade.
In the case of Campbell v. Pratt and others, (assignees of.Morris; .NJictolson and Greenleaf.) and Duneanson
and Ward, the Defendants, Duncansoin and Ward, never answered the'bill, nor was it taken for confessed
against them, nor was the bill dismissed or abated as to
them, but the. Court below decreed i that tb Defendants," Prattand others, "' and William M. Duncanson,'
cc and Samuel Ward, release, convey and transfer to the
",Complainant, William Campbell, all their interest
" and estate in the squares and lots of land sold under
",the Complainant's attachment, a mentioned and set
"forth in his bill ; and that the said Complainant, his
"c heirs and assigns, be forever quIbted, in the title, posccsessictn, and enjoyment of said squares and 'lots,
c,arainst all the claims, interest and estate of the said
ccDefendants."
From these decrees, Pratt and others appealed to this

Court.
The cases were argued at great-length by JoNzs and
P. B. Kry, for the "ppellants, and bl,3. Lxw, IiV.S.
KEY and 1 'In.n , trr the .Atppellees, Law and Vamp-

MI.
In the case of Law T.Pratt and others, fhe argument
turned almost entirely upon questions of fact.
In .the cases of Fratt and others o. Law and Campbell,
andi Campbell v. Frait and others, and Ward and Duncan.
son, the following questions were made•
1. Wbetber Campbell, by the judgment of condemnation, in the Court of Appeals of Maryland, and tho pro-

FEBRUARY TERM iis.
ceedings under it, acquired Morris and Nicholson's equi- PRATT
& OTILnRS
ty of redemption in the squares attached?
0.

2. Whether 1. Miller, the assignee of Greenleafj had

LAW

apriov equitable lien upon thesquares mortgagedtoDun- & CAxircanson, to the extent of the two thirds of the amount of DRL..
the bills of exchange secured by that mortgage ?

S. Whether Campbell was bound to disclose the consideration lie gave for Morris and Nicholson's notes,
upon which he obtained the attachments ?
P. B. KByfor the .4ppellaWts,contended,
1. As to the first point, that nothing was condemned
under those attachments, but the legal estate of Morris
and Nicholson, if they had any.
An equitable estate is not liable to attachment or execution under the laws of Marylaid.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland,
jn this case, does not lurport to condemn tihe equity of
redemption, nor to designate what interest in the land
Morris and Nicholson had.
It appears, by the letter from Judge Rumsey, the
Chief Judge of that Court, that the majority of the
Court was of opinion that the covenant in the mortgage
to Mr. Law, that Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf
should quietly enjoy the land until default made, gave
them a legal estate, ii the nature of an estate for years,
which was liable to condemnation ; and that the Court
intended to condemn nothing r'ore than the le.gal estate,
whatever it might be, which Morris and Nicholson had
in the land -at the time of the attachment. That it was
the ego, and rot the"equitable estate, which they considered liable to condemnation, appears from the language of the judge, ,,But oi& this" says lie, (meaning,
on the question whether an attachnent ought t0 be
agaixst a mortgagor's interest) - tl.eJudes gave o opi,nion. Sufficient to them was it, that, in their opinion,
"any interest was attachable, and upow- ejectinent, this
, -wouldhave been.diso.sed." Now no interest could, in
Maryland, have been maintained upon ejectmeut, but a

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRATT

&

oTHErS9

-0.
LA&w

legal estate; which sho'is that the Court of Appeals
contemplated the condemnation of.a legal interest only.

'This is sufficient to show that the judgment "ofthe Court
of Appeals is not conclusive evidence that the equity of

& IbAMr- redemption of Morris and Nicholson was affected by the
ELE.

attachment.
By the construction which 'the Courts of Maryland
have uniformly given to the British. Statute of 5 G. 2,
making lands in the colonies liable for debts, nothing
but the legal estate is liable to execution at law. The
rule is the same in England, 2 .Lk. 292, Plunket v. 1enson. 3 .ttk. 200, Shirley v. Watts. 3 .4lk. 739, Burdcu
,. IKennedy. Thie act of assembly of Maryland, 179!,
ch. 60, sec. 10, is'founded upon this known ant acknowledged rule of law. It recites that, " whereas it often
" occurs that persons against whom judgments or decrees
" are obtained, hold and possess,or claim lands,tenements,
" or hereditaments, by equitable title only, and the bredi69 tor or creditors of such persons are often without reme4c dy, either at law, or ii equity;" and then goes on, to give
the chanellor power to decree a sale of the equitable title ; and togive the purchaser all the remedies which
the person had whose equitible title is thus sold.
That act of Maryland in I810, (4. 60) which, for the
first time subjected equitable 'estates to legal process,
wvas passed ten'years after tle judgment of the Court of
Appeals in"this case, and is strong, if not conclusive
evidence, that such'estates were not b'efore that time liable to such process.
But if an equity of redemption be liable to attachment,
yet the Complainant's equity is prior to that of Campbell, for they had a prior attachment, in the name of
Greenleaf, against Morris and Nicholson,' which wa.s
continued until they obtaified an assignment of that equity of redemption which was the object of their suit. If
I attach the personal property of a man, and before coidemnation he sell it to. me in satisfaction of my clahi,"I
am under no obligation to proceed with my suit tojttdg.
ment. I have already obtained the fruit of my action.
If he does voluntarily wbat the law would compel him
it is sufficient.
to &QI,

FEBRUARY TERM i8i5.
2. -As to the prior equity df lMiller, assignee of Green- PRATT
leaf, under the bankrnpt law of te United States.
& OTHES
"0.

Greenleafconveyed his rights in tho Washington pro- rAw
perty, on the 13th of May, 1796' with certain excep- & CAMPtions, reservations, and conditions.
BELL-That conveyance was expressly made subject to this
mortgage to Duncanson. All the rightq df Greenleaf,
growing out of those exceptions, resTvations and conditions were assigned, by the bankraiptcy, to Miller,
one of the Detfendadts to Campbell's bill, and one or [Lm
Complainants in the bill against Liv and Ca'mpbell.
The bills secured by the mortgage to Duncanson
were sol, and the proceeds quaily divided between
Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf, each of whom. agreed
to take up -ne third of the-amouit thereof'if they should
return protested. They returned protested, and Greenleaf was obliged to take up the whole. Upon doing this,
he requested Duncauson not to release the mortgage,
but to retain it as his security. This Duncanson agreed
to do; and thereby became a: trustee, in equity, of the
mortgage for the benefit of Greenleaf.
Ten of these squares, mortgaged to Duncanson, had
been conveyed by MoTis and Nit holson to Greenleaf,
in June, 1796, subject to Law's and Duncanson's mortgage-Morris and Nicholson, therergre, at the time of
the attachment, had no equity'of redem'ition in trose ten
sqeares. Four ather srmar'es are claimed by Ashley,
another of these Defendants, to 'whom Morris and
Nicholson had assigned their equity .f redemption pior
to Campbell's attachment.
3. As against these Defendant, who are seekipg
ststfaction out of the same fudffwith Campbell, lie ought
not, even if he has a prior lien, to be permitted to enforce it beyond the amount %)f what lie paid for
Morris and Nicholson's notes, with' interest, Equity
'will not permit him to profit by our loss. - Equality is
kquity"- "axims in Equity, p. 9._) "A stranger,
c; who btiys in a prior incumbrance, shall be allowed
"6only what he really paid, as against other incumbranSe 'rs." -:t
- ern. 176. "cBut as against the owner of
VOL. IX.

61

SUPREME COURT U. S.
"the estate, who made the incumbrance, or his heir, he
niis "cshall be allowed the whole that is due upon it."

PRANcc

& ow
IV.

Moriis and Nicholson, it is true could not set up this
W
& cAmr- defence; but we, who are their bona, fide creditors, and
nim.,
assignees of their equity of redemption for a valuable
consideration, have a rightato redeem Campbell's incumbrance by paying him his purchase money and ihterest.
F. S. Izy, for Campbell, relinquished the claim as to
the ten squares, conveyed to Greenleaf, and the four
squares assignedto Ashley.
As to Miller's claim to a lien in consequence of Green.
leaf's payment of.the bills, he contended that no such
lien was thereby created, or could be created, without
an actual assignment of the mortgage. The condition
of the nmortgage was. that Morris, Nicholsrn and Greenleaf, or one of them, should take up the bills. One of
them did take up the. bills and thereby the mortgage
was discharged. The lien no longer existed, and the
property reverted to Morris and Nicholson.
As to the claim that Campbell should b6 compelled to
gave for the notes, he contended that
take only what hg
-the judgment of the Court of Appeals had ascertained
the amount of this debt, and that the judgment could not
now be opened.
As to the question whetheran equitable interest could
be attached, he relied upon the judgment of the Court of
Appeals as conclusive.
As to the prior attachment by Greenleaf, for the use
of Pratt and other's, lie contended that it created no lien
in as much as it was not prosecuted to.judgment. That
the 4ttachment and the Qdeed of assignmen could not be
connected together so as to preserve the inchoate lien
which was commenced by the attachment.
Fi

y,on the same stde.

aimpbell contbnds, -not only that Ie has ai equitable,
but a legal title. His -attachment" gave him a legal title,
to an equitable tniiSg. If it did not, it gave him no i'ile.

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
Upon the great principles of justice, real property is as

PnA
u
much liable for a man's debts, as personal. L.ses were & OTUEUS
never extended in Ei ngland until' the statute of 1r 8.
V.
And the Courts always refused to extend trust until the
rAyw
statute of frauds authorized them so to do. Nor could & CAMPau equity of redefiiption -be affected at !arv.
lo.=1
But this question hern turns wholly upon the local law
of Maryland, and the construction of the statute-under
which these attachments were issued. It is the act of
1795, eh. 56, which auth6rizes a justice of peace, &c. to
issue his warrant to the clerk of the Court requiring
him to issue an attachment - aainstthe lauls, tenements,
goods, chattels and credits" of the debtor.
The single questinn is, whether these were the lands
of Morris'and NUibholson at the time of the attachthent.
From the time of the colonization of Maryland, its
jurisprudence has been divided between Courts of Law,
and. Courtsof Chancery. If the statute speaks the langAiage of the Courts of Chancery, as well as of law, the
case is clear. In Chancery, the mortgagor, and not thm
mortgagee, is owner of the land. The equity ofredemption descends, to th. heir; the testator may devise it;
his wife is entitled to dower; the husband is tenent by
courtesy; in.short, the mortgagor is owner of the land,
as'against all the world except the mortgagee. The
legislature, by its acts, speaks to the "wltol jurisprudence of the state, not to one branch only.
A trust estate tvas*liable to executiop and attachment
long before. Why should not an equity of redemption
be equally liable? The act expressly makes credils, liable to attachment, which was as contrary to the course
of the common law as to subiect equitable interests in
land to condemnation.
Lord Mansfield, in a case in Douglass's reports
(Doug. 610,_) says, it is an affront to common sense to
say that the mortgagor is not the real owner. The
equity of redemption is tho substantial ownership in
the view of all the world.
The act of Maryland in ISO, applies to executions

SUPREME COURT U. S,
PRiTT only, and riot to attachments, upon equitable interests in
& OTHERS lands. The legislature supposed the case of 'attachineizts already provided for.
v.
LAW
The act of1794, only shows thatthelegislature thought
& CAAP3ELL.
eanitablo interest in lands ought to bd as, much liable
for debt. as legil interests.

They alsp thought it expedient to give the purchaser
of an equitable interest under the decree of the Court.
all tlid remedies legal as well as eqluitable which the
debtor formerly had.
The case of Waters v,Stewvart, (i. Caine's Cases in Er.
v'or, 47) is precisely analagous to this. The statute of
N w York, upon which that .case arose, subjected to
execution, c iahds, tenements and real estate ;"' undep
which expressions, it was decided that an equity of redemption, of a mortgage in fee, was liable to be sold by.
virtue of aJlerifacias.
It is said however that the Court of Appeals in Maryland was of opinion that the covenant for quietenjoy.
mqnt was equivalent to a lease for years, which is a lc-.
-gal estate, and that they did not mean to condemn any
thing more than that legal interest. But that covenant
created no legal estate. No specific term was mentioned during which Morris and Nichblson should hold it.
It was not an estate for years If "ny thiig was condcmnedl by the judgment of the Court of Appeals, it
must have been the equity of redemption ; for that was
the only interest in Morrisand Nicholson at the time of
the attachment. T",that .!eqlity of redemption, Campbell acquired a legal right.
But it is said that Campbell purchased the notes of
Ma'ris and Nicho1son at a discount, and ought to be
permitted to enforce is lien only to the extent of his
purchase money and interest. There is no evidence of
the fact; but if there wag, yet if h was guilty of no
fraud, he became the creditor of Morris and Nicholson,
to the full amount of the notes , he was-pan gira with
the other creditors, and he who got ilia first attachment
was in the be3t situktion. Campbell obtained the first
cifectivelien. That of Grecnlvrf was only incipiwnt.

FEBRUARY TER1I 1815.
It was abandaned before it was complete. The assign-

Pn&

ment cannot be connected with it. The claim under the & oTrEs
attanhmdit is a claimn in the post; that'under the assigno
ment is A claim iL the per. No two claims.can be more
Law
distinct. They cannot be amalgainated, nor is the lat- & cA.Meter a continuation of the former. The deed does not iErL.T.
purport to be a continuation of the lien; nor could it
transfer what Morris and Nicholson did not possess,
.Xdn dat qui non habet.
But it has been objected that the-judgment cannot be
executed by afieri facias, which is applicable only to
legal estates in possession. But if'the condemnation of
an equity of redemption is sanctioned by the act, the
sale .of that equity under a fier facias is equally sanctioned. The one is a necessary consequence of the other. An execution is as natural to a decree in equity as
to a judgment at law. In both cases the thing is to be
taken to satisfy the debt.
This is no longer a mere equitable lien. It is a right
of property, derived from the attachment, the judgment
the execution, the sale, and the purcllase, which it may
be necessary for a Court of equity to effectuate; but
the right is a legal right.
This was a proceeding in reem, and the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of Marylai-:d, is cmclusive against
all the world.
As to the rule cited from, .Maxims in .Equity,.p. 9, ahd
found also in I Vern. 179, that " a stranger who buys
" in a prior incumbrant.e shall ho alliwed only what he
"really paid, as against othr incumbrancers ;" its authority is doubtful. It is'questioned by two cases; pne
in S/ kzcld, cited in the margin; and the other in 2 Alk.
51, MIullet -. Park. And the doctrine applies only to
ageqts, trastets, heirs. at law, or executors.
Campbell's indumbrance was a legal one.
atute title.
P. B. 'EY,

He had a

zn meptj.

There cannot be a legal title to an equitablIe thing. It

4,86

SUPREME COURT U. S.

is a solecism. No legal right can exist without a legal
rimedy. It is true there may be tenant by cotirtesy in
an cqui4' of redemption ; but lie has no legal estate.
V.
He has a just title, but it is an equitable title. His reLAW
& cAmrP- medy is in equity, ant not .at law. A trust estate may
nr.x. be sold under afierifacias,because such a proceeding is
expressly authorized by the statute of trauds. The
general rule is that equitable rights.must be enforced by
equitable means, and. legal rights by legal means.

&

PRATT
OTHERS

The case in New York wasaecided upon the statute
of that state, and a long previous practice under the statute of 5 C. 2, c. 7.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland;
does not-purport to decide- what sort of a title M orris
and Nicholson had in the property attached. It was
sufficient for them that Morris and Nicholson were in
possession. They considered that possession under a
covenant for quiet enjoyiment, as a legal estate; and that,
gave judgment of condemnation in order that Campbell
ight make out his title in ejectanent. So says the Chief
Judge of that Court in his letter, and that opinion is
peefectly consistent with the tbrms of the judgment. No
inference can be drawn, from the judgment, that tile
Court was of opinion that an'equity of redemption was
subject to attachment; and tile judge afflirms' that on
that pointthe Court gove no opinion. The point ig
therefore entirely 6pen for discussion. No case has
been produced from Maryland in which an equity of redemption has been sold tinder afierifaeiasor altachrienf.
The want of such a case is strong evidence Qf thme ,mlversal 6pinion of the Courts of judicature in MKaryl:und
c.04,
C. 60, and
upon that point; and the statutes of
1810, c. [60, seem conclusively to ahow what was.the
opinion of the legislature.
.Mlarch t. Jouxsoi"
Court as follows :,

, J. delivered the opinion of the

In order to present at distinct view of time numerous
questions which arise out of this intricate and volmnminous case, we will pursue them through a history ol' the
transactions in which they originated: and consider
them in order as they oetur.

FEBRUARY TERM -18I0.
Itis well known that at the founding of this city, the PI.Tm'
propfietors of the soil gratuituously relifiquished a pro- & oin-m a
portion of their property to commissioners appointed to
v.
receive it.
A.W
& CAriTMorris, Nicholson and Greenleaf purchased city
sLL..
lands to the amount of fifty millions of square feet, to
which quantitj they were entitled on the 3d of December, 79.
Of this quantity, 6,000 lots were purhased
from the commissioners; 2260 lots of Daniel .Carroll, and
the residue of other persons nutnecessary to be specified
in this case.
In the agreement with the commissioners they stipulate to chuse the lots by squares; to build twenty houses
per anum for seven years; and until the year 1796,
not to sell without the building stipulation.
In the agreement with Carroll, the divisim was to
take place by lots ; not by seectimi, but alternakly in order; and a variety of builditig and other stipulations
were entered-into, which not being complid. Yith. Carrol re-ehtered on his land, and the contract was finally
abandoned.
On the 3d of December, 1.79-1 Lw entered into a
contract with M'frris, Nicholson and Grenleaf for the
purchase of 2,400,000 square feet of city land al the
rate of five pence, Pennsylvania currency, per foot, for
which Law paid them 1.50.000, and took their bona to
convey him that quantity of tand, in the penalty of
1.100,000.
To securethis bond the mortgage was given which is
the principal subject of these suits.
On the ±3th of May, 1796, Greenleaf conveyed all
his estate and interest in the Washington lands to Morris
and Nicholson, who on the 26th of June, 1797, executed
an assignment of all their interest to these Complainants,
(Pratt and others). Greenleaf afterwards becoming
bankrupt, John Miller, one of these Complainants, was
made his assighee
In the several-bills and answers relaf iveto these transactions, there are various contradictory assertions on

SUPREME COURT U: S.
PRITT

& oTimms
v.
,LW
& CAmP"B~ r
.--

the subject of fraud ; but as there is no evidence to sostain any charge of that kind, and all the various writings executed.between the parties appear fair, unimpeaclied and reconcilable, we shall wholly reject the consideration"of that subject, and dispose of the case upon
the unequivocal i-leaning of the contracts of the parties,
nd their various acts whici have relation to the exectttion of those contracts.
Bythe bond to make titles, dated Dec. 3, 79-b, Morris, Nicholson hnd Greenleaf, are simply bound to make
titles to Law, for the specified quantity of land in the
city of Washington, leaving the situation of it, and the
mode of selection entirely undefined, and of course retaining it to themselves.
On the day following, the same parties entered into
articles of agreement, having relation to objects which
appear not to have entered into their contemplation
originally,, And which'ou the face of them, bear the appearahice of perfect reciprocity. An option is given to
Law to decline his purchase ii eighteen months, and
Law stipulates that if lie should not then d6cline it, ho
shall be bound to improve every third lot pursuant to
the original contract of Morris and Greenleaf with the
commissioners, in a specified time
On the 1oth of March, 1795, Law purchases other
concessions. By relinquishinj his right of declining the
purchase, lie is allowed the right of selecting the property to be conveyed to him "excepting water property,
"and excepting such squares as are now appropriated,
c, or.respecting which the said Morris, Nicholson and
"Greenleaf have made arrangements." A list of the
excepted squares is subjoined, numerically distinguished.
Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf also stipulate to secure Law in the discharge of their contract by a mortgage of other lands in the city " which are now in their
" possession, until they can give -ood and sulficient titles
- to the said Law, of such property as he may select
cc and of which the titles are not already vested in them.''
but Law is to select by squares; to select in ninety days,
and to build in conformity %ith Mlorris and Greenleaf's
contract with thetommissioners.

FEBRUARY TEMt

ig.

From this contract emanated the mortgage of the 4th PATT
of September, 1795.
& OTHE.D
10.

It was evidently incumbent on Law to makehis seltc-. TAW
tionin ifinety days, or shew some adequate cause, to ex- & c&.3Wcuse him from the discharge of that part of his agree- BELL.
mont. The evidence that he did make. his selection in
the prescribed time is contained in his amended answer,
drawn from him by express allegations in the bill, and an
exception to his answer, in which he swears that his selection was made in due time, and that a copy of his selection, thus madej, was, in due time, communicated to
the other parties. This fact, therefore, being uncontradicted by any evidenee, and confirmed by the solicitude
expressed by Law, in all his coriespondence, to obtain
his titles, must be considered is established, and throws
upon the opposite party an obligation to shew either,
that-he complied with the selection so made, or some
sufficient reason why it w.is not complied with. For
these purposes they contend that it was in part complied
with, and that it was the fault of Law himself that it was
not wholly complied with.
It appears that on the t4th of March, 1796, there
were conveyed to LaWV, 792,939 square feet of ground
and on the 20th of July, :.797, 1,155,857 squpwe feet.
In these conveyances Law acquiesce5j with two exceptions;
1. That i2S,223 square feet contained in squares
t'27, 789, and 729 have since been recovered bf him by
due course of law:

2. That in the computation of square feet supposed to
be conveyed to him, are included the superficies of the
alleys passing through those squares in which the entire
squares were not conveyed.
To understand this objection it is necessary to remark
that, in the division between the commissioners and the
proprietors, it frequently happened that several lois in
a sqtare were assigled to the proprietor. In the selections made by 1E rris and Nicholson, and in those made
by Law, the exigency of the agreement to chuso by
C
VOL. IX.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
r9ATT squales was considered as gratified by the choice of all
& OTiHRS that part of a square which had been allotted to thecommissioners.
IV.
LAW
& c, p- To the first exception, the assignces reply that Law
E L. was conusant of the defect of'title in the squares allud- ed to; that lie took them with his eyes open, and therefore cannot now claim indemnity.

But we do not subscribe to this opinion. There is no
evidence, iii the casei that. lie did agree to take these
sqnares unt onere. The letter of the ist of September,
1799, proves n othiig of the kind. The condition of the
obligation is not complied with by a conveyance of a defectivetitle.

The obligation to convey a good and sufficient title
witi a general warranty will carry with it the obligation to refund in case of eviction. Law's knowledge of
the incumbered state of the t*itl,,. is of .no consequence

whilst the opposite party was under an obligation to
make that title good and suflicivnt. The assignees are.
in~this respect, in no better situation than the original
parties. Their rights and interests are altogether sub-

ordinate to those of Law. They take the property in
every respect incumbered with the obligation to make
good ,the contracts of Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf
with him, not only on general principles, but by txpress
exception in favor of existing liens and incumbrances.
With regard to the allowance for the superficies of the
alleys, we remark, that if the alleys be comprized under
the denomination of streets, the conveyance of the ground
which- they cover would, be void, and unquestionably
will not amount to a gratification of the contract. But
from the president's instructions of the 17th oF October,
1791, there is reason to think that they were rights of
wiy appurtenant t6 the lots of each, square respectively.
If this claim of-Law's extended to the alleys in those
squares of which the whole was conveyed to him, theri
would be, some ground for disputing it. But as it is
confined to those squares only in which the right could
not bo merged, because some one ormore of the lots were
the property of another. we think the allowance ought
to be made; f~r I.aw certainly has not acquired a titlo
in fee simple in those alleys.

FEBRUARY TERM i8iM.

491

. "Itis contended that it was in Law's power to have PRATT
obtained a fall performance; and they charge him with &.oTfEas
various acts to whici alone they attribute the non-cornV.
pliance on their part.
LAW
& CAMPr1; His frequent varying of his selections.
B]lEL.
On this subject there is a great variety of evidence and
many contradictory allegations. But upon the whole,
it appears that atter acquiescing in a number of changes, the selections about the last of the year 1796, settled down to 699, 696, and half of 743, and the deficiency, if any, to -be supplied out of squares 730, and north
of 697.

But Law's inclination to vary his selections furnishes
no sufficient excuse; for a tender of a conveyance confor .:ably to any one of those selections would have been
a performance.
On the 5th of December, 1796, it appears a deed was
tendered and this is asserted to have bten a legal performance of their part of the agreement. Law contends
that it was not because it contained the building stipulation, a distinct; independeu, contract. and which ought
not to have been made a part of this conveyance. This
question appears at that time to have beerA submitted to
counsel and decided in favor of Law. Whether correctly or not, it i&now too late to enquire; 'for it appears
to have been acquiesced in, and conveyances executed for
niearly the whole of the same land which was contained
in the tendered deed. 'The conveyance tendered cannot,
even ir In unexceptionable form, be now considered as a
performaTice for the balance unconveyed, since the land
contained in it canstitutes a great part, of that for which
cfedit'is given upon the agreement ; and after receiving
conveyances in a different form it is surely too late now
to contend for .the sufficiency of those tendered.
3. It is contended that the selection of.squares 69S
699, and 743 was Aut sanctioned by the contract of
Maroh, 1795, and therefore Morris and .Nicholsoi were
under no obligation to convey.
It appears that these squares were situated in Carroll's

SUPREME COURT U. S.
. aA.T

land, and, in the division' between Carroll and the Carm.
They thus
became a part of that land out of wheh, ltorris and
Nicholson were tq be-entitled to have cobveyed to them'
their 220 lots, and it is contended that Law's right of
selection could not extend to these lots because they
were to be assigned alternately ; whereas Law's right of
selection was to be made by sqilares out of those in
which Morris and-Greenleaf, had the right of selection.
It appears however, that Morris and Nicholson acquiesced in Law's right tO select, from Carroll's land, and in
a letter of March 1Sth, i797, explicitly acknowledges it.

& OTHERS missioners, were assigned to the former.

v.

LAw

& CAMPnTnT.

The solution Pf this apparent inconsisteny is to be
found in an observation previously made on another
point in this case. A selection by squares was in practice considered by these parties as complied with when
made of all those lots contained in, any given square
which were owned by the party bound to convey. There
could then he no reason for excluding Law from enjoyin.g his right of selection from among the squares contained in Carroll's land. The objection certainly come&
too late at this day. In Morris's letter to Mr. Cranch,
of February 22dj

1796p

is contained an express recogni-

tioki of the correctness of that selection, or at least of
his accepiance of it in lieu of one more correctly made.
This act with its attendant consequences must be con'
sidered by this court as givin'g legitimacy to the selection though it had- becni otherwise inderensible. Had
Law been then informed that this selection was not authorised by con'ract he would have been thrown on his
right to amend his selection, at a time when lie might
have done it with little prejudice to his interest. Blut at
this timn it is surely too late to retract hn assent given
nearly twenty yeer.? ago.
With regard to the two other squares selected, as it
was only provisional, to make up any deficienry that
might exist after conveying the three positively selected ;
until the throe absolutely chosen were conveyed, nothing
final could be done with these.
The last of)Jection is founded-on Law's failure to com.
ply with his building contract.

FEBRUARY TERM Ami5&
But to this we answer : Law was not restricted as to PnA,

the specific lots on which the buildings were to be erect- & oTrunMa
10.
ed. This choice, therefore, extended over the whole,
zLw
aud the obligation was* not complete until the whole
land was conveyed to him. We are of opinion that the & cAa
selection was sufficiently proved ; and that Morris, Brx
Nicholson and Greenleaf were in default with regard to
the deficiency of land. On them, therefore, must ffil the
consequences, of a state of things produced by their own
default.
But ihere are other reas.ons, furnishpd by the case, in
support of this opinion.
Law had advanced very considerably in the discharge
He asserts (and it is hardly
of his building contract.
possible to believe otherwise) that hW" was originally in,
duced to enter into that stipulation in consideration of
similar stipulations entered into by Morris, Nicholson,
and Greenleaf with the Commissioners and Carroll, and
urges their failure as his excuse in part for desisting from
building. But be this as it may, it is impossible for the
ingenuity of man to devise any expedient by which a
mean of comparison can be resorted to that would enable this Court, or a Jury to ascertain the injury resulting from this cause, or the sum in damages by which it
We therefore put the building
may be compensated.
contract entirely out of the case.
It then only remains to decide what remedy Law is
entitled to.
It is contended in behalf- of Morris, Nicholson and
Greenleaf that it should be by specific performance or
by an issue quitntum danificatus; that, at-any rate, it
should not b.e by a decree to refund the purchase money
with interest, as the value of the residue was necessarily diminished by the grafification of so larg6 a proporotion of his right to select.
To obtain a specific performance is no object of Law's
bill; it is incumbent on the opposite party therefore to
shew some ground of right to force such a .decree upon
him. But considering, as wo do, that Law is not in default, there can be no reason to decree a specific perfor-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MRATT

mance when every thing shews hat it would be produc.

& oTjHas tire of nothing but loss. Bpsides. a specific performance,
'V.
such as would answer the ends of jutice belwcen these
parties, has now become impossible; Carroll's property
LtAW
& c A.-r- is resumed ; a large proportion of the land, purchased of
the Commissioners, sold under legal process, and thus
73zL.
the benefit of selection so diminished that if performance
were to take place, it must take place stripped of this its
most valuable appendage; whilst the diminution of the
value of property, and the change of circumstances, produced by a lapse of twenty years, would render it mockery to call any execution specific.
An issue quantum damnifleatts it is certainly competent to this Court to order in this case ; but it is not consistent with the equity-practice to order it in any case
in which the court~can lay hold of a simple, equitable,
,and precise rule to ascertain the amount which it ought
to decree.
In this case, the failure on the part of Morris, Nicholson and Greenleaf, certainly was as early as December,
-1796, at a time when there Is no reasot) to suppose that
any diminution in the value of property had taken place.
And as to the argument that the value of the right of
selection diininished in proportion tothe exercise of it;
that each subsequent choice was of less value than the
preceding, we think it i? a sufficient answer that Law
never appears to have enjoyed the full bepefit oft his
rigfit of selection in consequence of the difficulties which
appear at all times to have obstructed his getting titles
from the Commissioners or others. And finally when
his choice settled- down upon the squares 727 789 and
729, and on Carroll's snuares 696, 699, and half of IMS,
he was evicted from the three former, and never could
get the titles to the three latter. Now these squares
nearly make up his deficiency and there is reason. to believe they are among the most valuable of his choice. At
anrrate they appear to have been the favorite objects of his
choice. We are therefore of opinion that the rule of equity
in this case is that adopted by the Court below ; to wit,
refunding at tbhirate of-purchase according to the quailtity actually deficient; but that interest is to be calculated only from the time when the selections were finallly
nmde, which we fix at 1st of January, 1797.

FEBRUARY TERMI

U8i.

With regard to the actual deficiency it is understood MIt.TT
that* there -vill he no difficulty in .adjusting it as the & oTumDs
measurement and calculations of Mr. King will be acIV.

qu-iesced in.

.'We must next determine in what manner the money
to be decreed to Law, in pursuance of the foregoitig
principles, is to be raised from the mortgaged premises;
and this leads us to the connexion between the interett
of Law, and those of Campbells and Duncanson.
Campbell was holder of the negotiable paper of Morris and Nicholson to a considerable amount.
Greenleaf had conveyed to Morris and Nicholson all
his interest in the mortgaged premises, so that each of
them was entitled to an undivided half part of the equity
of redemption. Campbhll sued out an attachment against
M,orrisand Nicholson severally, under the laws of MarVland, (as this part of the District was then under the
jurisdiction of Maryland) and h',d it levied on qundry
of these mortgaged squares, specifically designtitiu
thenj. by their numbers. An issue was made up, and at
the trial before the Court to which the writ was returadle, the question wis distinctly made whether the equitabh, hcrest of the Defendants in these squares was the
subject of atthebmcnt. That Court decided that they
were not; and the Plaintiff appealed to the Court of Ap'peals to. have their judgment reversed.
On the hearing before the Court of Appeals the decislon of that Court is reversed and the squares attached
are specifically and numerically condemned to satisfy
the debt due to Campbell. And finally, process issues
out of that Court, to the sheriff of the county, reciting
the attachment and condemnation of these squareso describing them with equal precision, and commanding
the sheriff to make, from the said lands, the money necessary to satisfy the judgment. Under .his writ, the
squares, syo-.mndemned, were sold ; Campbell becomes
the purchaser; and Law, at the instance of Campbell,
andL without the privity of the assignees, executes a release, to MOrris and Nicholson, which is put on record ;
at the same time taking a bond of indemnity, from
Campbell, against. all,consequences that might result
from this act.

LT.W
& CAMPnrI.L

496
PRATT

& oTHRs
-0.
zAw
& cAMPn3.ir.

SUPREME COURT.Ui S.

Much ability has been exhibited in argument on the
question whether an equitable interest in lands and tenements be the subject of attaclment unde' the laws of
Maryland. But we are of opinion that we ire not now
at liberty to enter into the consideration of that question.
The decision of the Court of Appeals is final and contlurive on this point. The question was fully brought before them ; and althoug4i it had not fixed the law, wotld
have fixed the fate of these lands beyond reversal.
Some doutt is entertained, by one member )f the
Court, whether the laws of Maryland go farther than
to authorise the condemnation of this interest to satisfy
the judgment so a to leave'the Plaintiff still under the
necessity of applying to an equitable tribunal to effect a
sale. .
But the majority ard of opinion thattho attachment-act,
in making this interest tangible, makes it subject to the
ordinary process of the Law-Courts, aild that in vesling.
in the courts in %hich the condemnation takes place, the
power to issue execution as in case of other judgmentsv
it has'left it with those Courts so to fashion its process
as to meet the exigency of each case. In thi.4j case, the
very special nature of the execution shews that it las
been fashioned with -great care and Itarning. We therefoe hold the sale, under this execution, to be valid.
Some conclusions were attehpted to be drawn, in fit-vor of the assignees, from the inadequacy of the price at
which the"-property sold, and from the following state
of facts : Greenleaf had issued an attachment, to the
use of the assignees, against this property of Morris
and Nicholson, a day prior to, that of Campbell. Subsequent to that of Campb'ell, MJorris and Nicholson asassign all their interest in this property to these assignees. Greenleaf's attachment was never prosecuted to
judgment.
.It is contended that this union between the prior lien
and.the interest attached, defeats the immc'diate lien.

But.we Wnnot admit this conclusion.

FEBRUARY TERM iSis

49Y

Levying an attachment has the double effect of creat- MAT
lg a lien and instituting an action. But the lien is on- & o,
ty inchoate ; it awaits thejudgment of the Court for its
consummation, and must fall with the suit. To decide yAM
otherwise would be to pernit the Defendant, by colu- & CA3Wsion,'or his own act, to nullify the lien of the subsequent BEL.
Attachment.
As to the inadquacy of price, the evidence is full to
show that it was produced altogether by the steps takes
by the agents of tle assignees to embarrass or prevent
the sale, and by thesupposed weight of the incumbrances resting upon the land. In this respect, therefore,
tlere is no imputation to be cast upon Campbell.
'With regard to the release, it is very evident that, as
it was never accepted by tile assignees, it ought in no
wise to operate to their prejudice; nor ought Campbell
to derive any benefit from it, as it was gratuitously proposed by him under an arrangement with Law. Give
efficacy to this release, and consider how it will operate.
Campbell purchases at a reduced price, subject to aa
incumbrance ; but give effect to this release and he
holds an absolute fee absolved from all'incumbrance.
Again, the property, mortgaged to Law, is liable for
the whole amount to be raised for his indemnity ; but
give efficacy to this 'release, and whilst Campbell acquires an unincumberd estate, on the one hand ; on the
other, the residue of the mortgaged property, (that of
which the assignees have not been deprived by sale of
the sheriff,) must be sacrificed to raise the money due to
Law. From this it will follow, either that a rateable
abatement should be made, by Lav, proportionate to the
squares by him released to Campbell, or that those
squares should contribute their due proportion towards
paying Law.
Before we proceed to apply these principles to the fi.
nal disposal of the case, H is necessary to shew in what
manner the interests of Duncanson and Ward become
involved with those of these other parties.
Duncanson at the reqttst of Morris, Nicholson and
VOL. IX.
63

198
FRIT
& OTUUlES

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Greenleaf, and for their use, drew bills on- a variety of
correspondents-to the amouht of 12,0001.

LA
the 12th of September.. 1795, Morris, Nicholson
& CAMPandOnGreenleaf,
executed a mortgage of eighteensquares
B&L.
in the city of Washington to indemnify Duncansoit
aigainst the return of these bills. They were eighteen
of the squares previously mortgaged to Law.

Of these bills about 7,6001. were returned under protest as the property of Ward ; and that sum, together
with the damages, was paid, on the 26th of D ember,
1796, to Ward by Greenleaf. No satisfaction was entered on the mortgage, nor any assignment demanded
until a day long subsequent. The residue of the bills
were also returned and paid by Greenleat.
Thus circumstanced, whilst the mortgage appeared on
record in full life, when in fact defunct, as the purpose,
for which it was created, had been answered, the attachment of Campbell was levied on thirteen of these squares,
and they were finally condemned, sold, and purchased by
him. After the sale, notice was given to Duncanson,
not to release, and that'an assignment to Miller, the as.
signee of Greenleaf, would be demanded of hiim. The
demand of GI'ecleaf, on Morris and Nicholson, arising
from taking tip these bills, was contained ihi his assignment to Miller; and this payment is amoig the items
making up the debit side of the account stated between
Greenleaf and Morris and Nicholson.
Miller, the assignee, contends that he is entitled to
such an assignment from Duncanson, and therefore to
be considered in this Court as entitled to all the advantages which he would have derived from such an assignment if actually made.
On the one hand, Campbell had, at the sale, all the
benefit of this sum as an existing incumbrance upon the
land. It was, in fact, so much credited on the purchase
money for which it sold ; but on the other, it is contended that it was a fraud upon the Public to keep up the
appearance of an existing mortgaix on this property
when it was in fact satisfied; that the agents of the assignees alone knew this fact, and good fiith demanded
ofthem that they should have avowed it.

FEBRUARY TERM 18I.

699

We, are of opinion that the answer to this argument PRATT
is complete. The assignees did not conceive it to be a & OTumE
satisfied mortgage; they then supposed, and now con.
V.
tend, that an equitable interest in the security, given for LAW
the payment of the bills, resulted to Greenleaf for two & CAMPthirds of the sum paid by him on the bills and passed to BELL.
them on the assignment. This reply, whether correct
in point of law or not, certainly removes all imputation
of fraud. But if it did not, what reason can be assigned
why Campbell should take to himself a benefit from it?
Had it been productive, in any mode, of injury or loss
to him, it might have been urged -with some plausibility;
but there is no reason to suppose. that any such effect
has resulted from it. It could only operate to reduce the
sales of the squares; and in this respect all the effects
produced by it resulted to his benefit altogether.
_____.

One thing is indisputable; that i*f this mortgage be
decreed satisfied, Campbell has acquired an interest
which he never purchased, and acquired that interest in
property which ought otherwise to belong to the assignees. It might perhaps be made a question whether the
whole amount, apparently secured by the mortgage
ought not to be made the measure of compensation to the
assignees ; for to that amount it may reasonably be supposed the price of the property was reduced at the sale;
to that amount were they damnified, and to that amount
the purchaser was benefited. But it would not be consistent with the nature of these purchases to apply that
rule to them with strictness. The uncertainty under
which a purchase is made, when made subject to an unliquidated incumbrance, gives such a purchase somewhat the nature of a speculation which the purchaser
ought, to a reasonable extent, to have the benefit of, if
itprove lucrative. It is, therefore, only on the ground
of an equitable existing lien upon the mortgaged premises, or equitable claim upoii Campbell, that the Court
can decree in favour of the assignees.
And as Campbell has filed his bill of interpleader, in the nature of a
hill to redeem, we think the Court at liberty, when dezreeing in his favour, to impose on him such equitable
terms as the nature of the case suggests.
The foregoing reas.nning proves that Campbell ought
in cgnsc~ence, to make compensation to the niortga-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRATT

& OTH{ERS
V.
LAW
& CAMPBELL.

gor, the former proprietor of the fee, for that part of the
interest which the mortgage appeared to c6ver. He
did not purchase it, and therefore, although strict right
may secure to him the whole, he ought to be charged
with a sum *in compensation for the interest so acquired
above what was proposed to be sold.
Again, had these bills not been taken up, and the holder prosecuted all the drawers and indorsers to iusolvency, there can be no doubt* that the holder would have
been ehtitled, to charge the mortgaged premises, in equity, with the payment of the bills. But what difference
is there, in equity, between the case of any other holder
ef these bills, and that of Greenleaf, who, when liable.,
equitably, only for one third, was compelled to take up
the whole, 'and did it with his own funds ? It consists.
only in this ; that the one becomes creditor for the whole;
the other only for two thirds.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that tie thirteen
squares purchased by Campbell should be rateably charged with the payment of the debt resulting, under these
transactions, from*Morris an'd Nicholson to Greenleaf.
PRATT AND OThRES, Plaihts below')

V.
Taos. LKV AND WM.CAMPE

DECREE.
I.J

THIS cause came on to be heaid, &c. Whereupon
it is ordered, adjudged and decreed; that the decree of
the Circuit Court for the district of Columbia, in this
case be reversed and annulled; and this Couit decrees,
That the Complainants shall be permitted to redeem the
mortgaged premises, exclusive .ofthoso squares purchased by-he said William Campbell, upon paying and satisfying to the said Thomas Law, at the rate of five pence
Pennsylvania currency, ler square foot, for the actual
difference between the nuinber of square feet conveyed
to the said Law and the number of 2,400,000 square feet
which Morris, Nicholson and. Greenleaf were bounitd to
convey, deducting from the number of square feet, said
to have been conveyed to Law, the square Mlet covered
by the alleys in those squares in which the untirp square

was not conveyed to Law, with interest, on tho sum so
ta be liquidated, c rculated from the firstday of January,
1797, at 6 per cent.

VEBRtTARY TERM 18i5.

,01

And it is further decreed, that towards paying and sa- __.__
tisfying the sum so to be ascertained, the said William & .....
Campbell do pay and contribute a sum proportionate to & o ......
U
the ratio, which the squares purchased by him bear to the
residue of the premises mortgaged to Law, in quantity & c
of square feet, with interest thereon froa the ist of Jan- MILL.
uary, 1797.
That on payment of the said sum, the said Thomas
Law shall re-convey to the Complainants all those
squares, or other mortgaged -premises which were nut
sold as aforesaid; and to the said William Campbell
all those squares which the said William Campbell attached and purchased as in bill and answer set forth.
And the Court rutfier decrees, that if thr' said Wil-

liam Campbell shall not, in six montlis after the liquida-

tion of the sum to be paid by him and notice thereof)
with interest thereon as aforefaid, pay and satisfy to the
said Complainants, the sum so liquidated, then the sid
squares, so purchased by him, shall be sold under order
of the said Circuit Court, to pay and satsfy that sum ;
and that this cause be remninded to the said Circuit
Court for further proceedings necessary to carry itdt
effect this decree.

BRATT AND

oTinRs,
V.. Defendants belo

DE
DECREE.

TaomAs L~w.

THIS cause came on to be heard, &c., Whereupon
it is ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the decree of the
Circuit Court be reversed and annulled ; and this Court
decrees, that the said mortgaged-premises, whereof the
said %ThomasLaw prays foreclosure, shall be sold, under orderof the Circuit Court, for the district of Columbia, in the county of Washington, to pay and satisfy,

to the aid Thomas Law, so much of the sum adjudged
to the said Law, in the case of these Defendants, against
the said Law and W. Campbell, decided at this term, as
will be proportionate to the ratio Wvhiich the said portion
df the said premises bears to that proportion of the said
premises to whicli the said Law executed a release in
favor of Campbell, as in bill meutioned : unless the said

502
PRATT

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Complainants shall, in six months arter liquidation of

& OTHERS the-gaid sum, and notice thereof, pay and satisfy to the

IV..
LAW
& CAMP-

BELL.

said Law, so much of tie sai, sum as is, in this decree,
ordered to be raised. Upon payment of which sum the
tle said Complainants, his
said Law (shall) release t.,
Ci
interest in the sai premises.
It is further ordered, that this cause be remanded to
the Circuit Court for the distribt of Columbia, in the
county of Washington, for further procccdings to carry
into effect this decree.

Defendants elow
V."l

PR&TT AND OTIiERS,

EC
DECREE

WILLIAM CAIMPBELI.

THIS cause came on t Oe heard, &c. Whereulpon
it is ordered. adjud-ed, and decreed, that the decree of
the Circuit Court be reversed and annulled ; and this
Court decrees, that whenever William Campbell shall
pay and satisfy to John Miller, Juniar assignee of James
Greenleaf, so much of the t\ o thirds of the sum paid by
Greenleaf on the bills secured by the morlgage to Duncanson -iswill be proportionate to the ratio which the
squares bought by aginpbell subject to the mortgage to
Duncanson, bear, in quantity, to the whol, 1.8 squares
mortgaged to Duncans.n, then tie said Campbell slall
hold the. said squares so purchased by hiim, free and discharged of the said mortgage ; and the said Duncanson,
and tile Complainants shall thereupon convey and lissign
to the said Campbell all ticei' right and interest in the
said squares so purchased by him.
And it is further ordered and decreed, that if tle said
Campbell shall not within six months iiext after the liquidation of the sum to be.paid by him and notice thereof, pay and sajisfy the said sun to the said Miler, they
tie said squares so purchased by him shall be sold undei
order of the Circuit Court, and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment thereof'; having, regard neverthe.
loss, to any otler existing prior lien upon the said
squares: and this cause is remanded to the Circuit Court
fbr furtler proccedings thereon to carry into effit thi
dereve.

