SUPIEME COURT U. S
ST.LAW-

Nearly all the cargo consisted of goods belonging (as
it must .now be deemedl) exclusively to British mer'

nENcf.,

chants.

!M~z
wEBE,
tST=.

He was, thei:fore, engaged in an illegal traf

fic of the most noxious nature; a traffic not only prohibited by the law of war y but by th municipal regulations of hiq adopted country. His *whole property,
therefore, embarl~ed in such ai enterpitize, must alike
be infected with the taint of forfeiture.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, thereforey
as to thew claims, be affirmed with costs.

18M.
Feu.

DRU0MIMON D'S

ADMmisT1gATons

V.,

oth.

MAGRUDER & Co's. ThusnPzs.

Absent....LIviiiGsToe,

J.

Smi0Rr, J. and

TODD, J

THIS was an appeal from the decree of tho Circuit

Yfthe
a.~
tion of exe.

Court for the- Yirgitia district, in a suit',in chancery

tohant
oan brought Sy the trustees for the creditors of IV.B. Ma4- Cd. agaiht Drummond's administrators, to
itoftheCom.'grude
be
plainant's,
pl uinttb compel the latter to-account for funds put into the hailtfsby the Deen- of their intestate by W. M. Magruder & Co.
drnt in his an-

swer, who calls
o
u ontheo-

Ths Defendants, in their answer, say they know no.

such lhm or co-lartuersliip as Win. B. ,Magruderck Co.
proof thereof they carmit admit it, and hope the cOmplainants will
Court be put to tile pirnof of it. They have rio knowledge of
in
the this
b~eloir,
pI'ahmt to

the deed of trmsf mentioned hr the bill, and hope the
prese that Complainants will be required to make ample proof
other thereof. That W. B. Magruder was largely in debt to
1
ae thZa ap- their intestate, andthey belie' e the fnds put into his
p-s in the lihnds by' Magruder were intended to be applied to that
transcript of
ebt
the reord.
A copy ofa
tho.
The only proof of the ded.of tx'ust appearing in.
deed
Olerk of the
Court *ihout transcript of the record, was a copy certified by one
ti- cerifiate Gibson, who calls himself clprk of Baltimore county;
of te presdis judge tht without any cqrtificate from the presiding judge that
boWlt VhIn

FEBRUARY TERM i815,
his attestation was in due form. It purported to iie an mustassignment of personal estate only, and was not requir- mzoND's
ed by the laws of Maryland to be recorded.
AMs'
"V.
MGhUDFR&c o's
TRUSTEES

P. B. KzY, for Atppdllants, contended,
1. That the Complainants have not shown any title
to call the-Defendants to accouint....
2.

the attestica
pf th.,erk Ea

That on reversal this Court must dismiss the bill.

cannot be me.

They claim as favored creditors at the expense of td.- ei
Drummond, who is an equally meritorious creditor ofin equity.
Magruder. They have no equity to be let in 4z o rrP thi a deproj to make a new case.
ee up a
tediitu213

-

If the bort below had dismissed the bill, relief could 1"'On to einiot have been given -on a bill of review, -unless new evi- bly Dr Mcda
dence, not known at the time of the first trial, should in b ',
have been produced. This Court cannot send the cause nc
lthe
back for a newtrial., or if they can, they will not infia- Matly,
. . creditors.bt
the rcaLm to
ver of these exclusiyely favored
Abe Coatu Le-

R. L. TA YLoit, contra,

The cause is now placed an very different ground
from that on which it appeared in -the Cotrt below.
There the question was, wvhether the Defendants could
set offl
a debt due to their intestate from T. B. .Magruder, against this claim in the right -of W. B. M'lagruder

p-Co.
The only queston now is whether the. Court -below
err d in giving. a decree in favor of the Cu.mplainants
without evidence of the execution of the original deed
of assigumnet. The"Court below could -ot have decreed in favor of'the Complainants, unless they had
been satisfied of the execution -of the deed, 'ir the proof
of its execution had been waved by the other party.
This Court, therefore, will presume that tjie execution
of the deed was so proved, or the proof waved. Exhibits nay he proved vi'oa voce at the trial. It was not
necessary to reduce the testimony to writing. Etarrison
6I. Prac. 403. Laws of U. S. voL. t,p. 68. vo. 6, p. 100,
If incompetent evidence was admitted in the Court be.

todrt rurthtr

SUPREME COURT U# S.
DRummOND's

low without objection, it is no cause for reversal of the
decree.

ADMR'S.

P. B. KEy, in reply.
3JAGRU-

DER&co's.
TRUSTEES

The execution of the deed was put in issue by the
answer, and it ought to appear upon the record that it
was proved. If the ComplAinants have failed to put
the proof upon the record it is their own fault.
The answer puts in issue the right of the Complai.
nants to sue. A copy from the record, even if properly
authenticated, would not have been sufficient, because
it is not such a deed as the law requires to be recorded.
Februar:25th. .Absent....Ton, J.
WAsHINGTON,

J. delivered the opinion of the Court

as fullows
The Appellees filed their bill on the equity side of the
Circuit Court of Virginia for the purpose of recovering
a sum of money due from William Drummond td William B. Magruder & Co. To entille themselves to sustain this suit, they allegp in their bill that they are
creditors and trustees of William B. Magruder & Co.
hy virtue of a deed of assigrnment annexed to the. bill as
part thercof. This exhibit purports to be an assignment to the Complainants of all'the partnership effectN
debts and credits of William B. Magruder & Co. in
trust fior the payment of certain favored creditors of
that company, amongst whom are the Complainants.
The Appellants, filed their ans'wer denying any knowledge of such a co-partn-rship as William B. Magruder
& Co. and call upyon the Complainants to prove the
same. They also deny any knosvledge of the deed of
trust mentioned in and annexed to the bill, and call
,upon the Complainants to make full proof of it. To
this answer there was a general replication; and the
cause being heard upon these proceedings, the exhibits
and examination of witnedses and the report of the
master commissioner, a decree was rendered for the
Complainants for the sum reported to be due from the
Defendant to William 13. Magruder & Co. from wicth
decree the Defendants appealed to this Court.

FEBRUARY TERM I8g.
The exhibit mentioned in and annexed to the bill, al- DR1uMleged to be an in tenture of assignment from William B. zoxp's
Magruder & Co. to the Complainants, appeak-s to be a ADMR's.
-o.
copy of a sealed instrument certified to be a true coy
from the records of Baltimore county Court, tinder the !Aiuhand of William Gibson, who styles himself clerk of ER&C0's
that Court. The record contaihs no other evidence of TrusTzeS
the authenticity of this instrument; and the qustion
-is, whether the Circuit Court erred in decreeing upon
this evidencd in favor of the Appellees.
-The right of the.Appellees to bring this suit isi by
their own showing, merely derivative; and) consequently, it was incumbent on them to prove by legal dvidence
that the deed of assignment from William B. Magruder
& Co. under which tley claimed this right to sue a
debtor of that house, was duly exeruted. The ahstvcr
put this matter directly in issue by denying any knowledge of the deed exhibited with theill, and requiring
full proof'to be'made of it. This Court is not at liberty
to presume that any other ptoof of this deed was given
in the Court below than what appears on the ecord.
That proof consists in the certificate of a person.who
styles himself clerk of Baltimore county Court, that
the paper to which his certificate.is annexed, is a copy
of a dedd taken from the records of the Court of that
coqnty; but there is no such certificate as thi act of
congress requires to satisfy the Court that the attestation affixed to this copy, is in due form. It follows that
the instrument so certified cannot be noticed as a copy
of a deed from William B. Malgruder & Co.; and as it
is the foundation of the Complainants' right, the Court
erred in decreeing in favor of the Cbmplainants upon
such defective evidence. But as this Court cannot fail
to perceive that the objection to the proof of this instrument is merely technical, arid was probably not made
at all in the Circuit Court, it would seem improper to
dismiss the bill absolutely. The Court is unanimous in
reversing the decree; and a majority are of opinion
that the cause ought to be remitted to the Circuit Court
of Virginia for further proceedings to be had therein.
Decree reversed and remanded for further proceedings.

