BY

FEBRUARY TERM I8im

POLIL'S LEssEE

'v.

WENDAL & AL.

1815.
reb.

ABbsent... LivINGSTON~, . ToDD, 3. lc

7s

STI1UY,.

THIS case as stated by the chief justice in deliver- ne Ct

ing the opinion of the Court, was as follows :

oT..

k781,
m..,.,
th Lr4

c

.

This is a writ of error to a judgment in ejectment fe,Oil nat
'rendered in the Circuit Court of the. United States, for zn rom *-...
mt
tthe district of West
On the trijal, tho Plato- ing
......"nnessee.
fnt
cntrk?
;
,
tiff below, who is also Plaintiff in error, re.ied'on a pa- rLi ,,n,
tent regularly issu, d from the state of Nor.h Carolina, II.1heo
tha
for 5000 acres of land, dated the f7th day of April, i800, mre
500 ac%
unr rlmi pur.
which patent included the lands in controversy.
The D'.f4ndants then off.,red in evidence a patent is-.

htadplr,

sued also from the state of Nprth Carolina, and dated on entrus, I=
un;tbg
1795,Anipurporting to convey 25050 frmra
the 2Sth of Aukst.
the 28thof
eraml entre
.Ity
acres of land to John Sevit-r. which patent also compre- mcnI.reading of this and
rt tuch
p.tent;
hended the lands in controversy. To the
• ,
ull-ca
drir togrant the Plaintiff objeeted, because,
tries is altow.

1. By the laws of the slate of North Carolina no .rant t"y Ie "t
could lawfully issue for as large a numbcr of acres as'are i7a 8,te .t,
thu o!liteaincluded in that grant.
d= the
no Rt'ant.
MA.
2. The amQunt• of the consideration originally expres-~VaBl
WII
=" dered in thai said grant appears to have been torn out.
. I
3. The said grant on its fare appears fraudulent, the .,ut
tsimm,
number oif acres mentioned being '25060, thp numhor tied
warrants forty of 640 acres each. and yet the courses and ticn othie

distances. mentioned in its body, include more than theiIT
COrI, isto
50,000 acres.

be rftaliced.:
In

tenn ti.-'

These objections were over-Tiled and the patent went the :o,,tgto the jury. To this opinion of the Court the counsel OIt t e
gralls ar~r
for the Plaintiff excepted.
the cier po-

The counsel for the Plniniff tlen ofr'rd to prove for et an the
A patet j .
the purpose of avoiding the said grant.
Elmlttu thLt

1. That the forty warrants of 610 acres each mention- u the

jmii-

SUPREME COURT V. S.
ed in the said grant, purport, on their face, to have been

y1otxK's

issued by Landon Carter, entry taker or Washington
county, and that the land covered by the said grant is
WENiEi.L situated between the Cumberland mountain, and 'rennes& A-L.
see river and not within the said county of Washington.
LESSEL

."

oto
af"therequiqits
law have

e That the consideration of ten pounds for every

omplied

hundred acres wasfraudulently inserted in thesaid grant,
by pr"'urmentof said grantee J6hn Sovier.

bn

Wa.

A patent is
void at law if

Nid S. That no entries 'were made, in the office of the
no title, or if
try taker of Washington or elsewhere authorizing
ibe
I('r
.- issuing of such warrants.
the state

tout had ioanuth ity SO to
41o
itNortlh Ca-

That
I. the pretended warrants are forgeries.
.5.
That at the time of the cession of the western part

rulithe wnt
oP an

enth

entry

nullilies a I-of Ihe state of North Carolina to the Unitkd States, and

tent.

at the time of the ratifiratiotn thereof by congress, on the
1790, the said pretended
day of
Cart.l,- warrants did not exist, nor w,.re any locations or entries
the U. in the oflices of the entry taker of Washington county

After ihe cps.
bysi fl-,

Nordt
stnto

rrnmer il no fI'om which they
ri lit to grant t' eir issuance.

appear to have issued, authorizing

those
lands to
any other

grantee who

6.

That no consideration for the said land was ever

be-

paid to the state of North Carolina or any of its officers.

fore the cessii;"'
e

And, to prove that since the execution of the said

hiot

tl

the, such ingrant the consideration mentioned therein had been al.cijienttitle ex- tered frpm .60shillings to ten pounds, the counizel f'rthts
foe

TAw.

s "'Or

Plaintiff offered to read as evidence a letter addessed
by the said John Sevier, to James Glasgow, then secretary of state for the state of North Carolina, hi the
words fillowing, to wit:
"Jnesborough, 11th Jl'a.ember, 179o.
,,D..t1z siR.

"I am highly s,.nsible of your goodness and friend,
-ship inexecuting in. busines at your ofie iii tie man.
"nr and fornm which I took the lilierty to r'otiest, Per"uhit me to solicit a completion of the small remainder

FEBRUARY TERM ISM.39
'" of my business that remains in the hands of Mr. Gor"sdon.

FoLmes

LESSEn
0.

"Should there be no impropriety, should considerl WENDEL1.
e"myself much oblige| to have ten pounds inserted in & A .
-the room of fifty shillings. I b tve directed Mr. Gor,don to furnish unto you a plat-if theautountof thre. 6-10.
4, acres which I consider mys-Ifind wbd to yo previded
", you would accept the s.1me in fiu of what I .aww
in.
",debted to you for fees, &. which I beg you will please
66 to acept in case you can conceive thai the three war6rants will be adt-quate to the surs I am indebted to you.
I am with sincere and great esteem,
Dear sir, your most obedient servant,
cc Han. James Gtassgo-m."

1OHN SEVIER."

Endorsed thus,
,"Hoi. M.

GLAsS GOW, Secretary of State."

6. fr. Gordon."
The counsel for the Defendants objected to the recep
tion of this testimony, and it was rejectei by the Court.
To this opinion also an exceptim was taken.
A: general verdict was rendered for the Defendants,
on which the Court gave judgment.
This judgment has been brought up to this Court by
writ of error.
C. LnE,for the Plaintiyin error.
Two questions arise in this cause.
1. Whether the fraud does not vacate the grant to
Sevier?
2. Whether the evidence of that fraud should not habw
been admitted
12
VOL. IX

SUPREME COURT U. S.

90
1o0ls'

i.'Tle invalidity of the grant to Sevier appears upon

LEssEF it. face. It is mutilated by tli erasure of the consideraW.
tion. And it has been fraudulently altered in a material
WiNqDLL
& Al.

part.
By the law of North Carolina, the survey must be
annexed to the patent, and is a substantial part of it.
From this survey it appears that under .0warrants, for
640 acres each, amounting to 25060 acres, there have
lipn granted to him more than 50,000 acres.
These objections having been made at .hetrial below,
ought to have excluded the patent from the consideration of the jury.
There is a diffP'rence, between a puwic and a private
grant. A patent must be issued according to'the requisites of the law or it will be void. It takeq effi'ct mere.
ly by the provisions of the law, anti if not made pursit.
ant to law, can convey no title. 3 Co. 77, Fernnor'scase.
10 Co. 110 Legate's case. 6 Co. 55, Lord Chando's ease.
5 Co. BarwickIs case.-Co. Lilt. 260.
In the case of a sale of land by a sheriff for taxes, the
proceedings must be regular and according to the law
which authorizes the sale, or it will be void. So tinder
the bankrupt laws, and the Lord's act in England. The
same rule of law applies to a grant from a state; and the
pailty may take advantage of it, in eJectment. I Haris
4" .Mienry's repors,
,5, The Lord Proprietary of
XdMrjland -o.
.ennings i .Al. So if a bond or releaw be
6ffered, inevidence, the other party may shew it wa.s obthined by fraud. And ii' any objection appear upon the
face of the instrument, the Court will take notice of it. 6
Craich 70, ',eale v. 2Vornton.
2. The Court ought to have permitted the .laintifl to
give evidence, of the'fraud and of the want of foundation
for the patent. In ejectment the deeds are not declared
upon, nor set forth in the proccedings, so that the opposite party has nto opportunity to plead the fraud, or the
erasUr', &c. He can only produce these facts in ovi.
dence by way of objection so aq"to prevent such deedi
from being read in evidence to thejuiy.

FEBRUARY TERUTM A81.

9L

HIthe eitry taker in W~ashingtoan county hmd no au- rowiJ'8
dority to issue the warrants for thest. lands; tley are M. s=
void. The evidence of that fact ought therefore to have
V.
been admitted.
WA .L1NDEM
& AlJ.
The evidence of collusion between Sevier and the secretary of state, -and of ihe other fa.ts statcd in the bill
of exceptions, ought to have been received. For however slight the evidence might have been of somse of the
facts, yet it ought to have been left to the jury. 6 Crancl
50, Mryland Ins. Co. v. Woods.
The Court below decided that no vidence could be
given to invalidate the patent, extept what regarded the
entries.
Mr. Lee cited the followiun statutes of North Carolina, from IredelPs revised code, p. 2o05, the act of 1777,
ch. t, § 3, 2i.-Id. p. 322, fhe act of 1783, ch. 2, § 2.-id.
p. 315, the act of1784,.-4 *1sesion, by which the lands
were ceded to the United States. Anti the acts of 1781,
October session, p. 386, ch. 19,, 6. 1778, p. 252.-17869
ch. 20,,§ 20.-i789, chi. 3, p. 167, aid1791, ch. 21, § 5
JoNFs, cedra.
1. The first objection was to the admission in evidence
oftheliatentto Sevier, for any purpase. There was no"thing on the face of the patent to make it void. It was
not mutilated. There were blanks in it, but no mutilation; and there is no evidence that it was mutilated.
There could be only three kinds of consideration ; fifty shillings--ten pounds-or military service. It could
not by lav be either the fir8t or the last. It must therefore have been ten pounds.
The act of the officer carries a presumption that the
proper consideration was paid ; and th statute shows
whqt that consideration ought to have been.
2. The next ojection is that the grant comprehends
50,oo6 acres instead of 25 060.
But the grant is only for the 2,O0O,

although the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
OL119,s

ymss.,
V.
.w.NP Ei
& AL.
-

survey may include more. The statute which p'ohibits
grants for more. titan 5,000 acres, d,e1s not vacate such
grants. It is only directory to the officer; and such
grants are recognized by.the laws of North Carolina.
178~, ch. 19. The excess is no evidence of such fraud
as will vacate the deed.
The -Defendants were not bound to show the correctness of their entries; nor any' thing else prior to th,
patent. The entries were merged in the patent.
As to the second bill of exceptions: it present. but
one point. T;he only evidence offered and rejected was
th- letter of Sevier to Glassgow. For although it states
that tlh Plaintiff offered to prove other facts, yet it
does not state that he offered evidence of those facts.
But if the bill of exception imports that such evidence
was offered, yet the Defendants were innocent purcha.rs. The contest is not betwecn the original parties. They were not bound to look beyond the patent:
and if the fictc were proved, which the Plaintiff offered
to prove, yet the pitent is not thereby made void, but
voidable by proppr process. Tho king may avoid his
grants where a ;ubject could not, 10 Go. 113, Legate's
ca.e; but it must be either by quo iwarranto or scirc
facias, or information in the nature of a quo -warranto;
which is a-process in the nature of a procoeding in ren:
There is-no instance where it has been declared void
when brought collaterally into question. And although
a s'otut., dreclares a grant void, yet it is not actually
void, hut voidable. 7 Bac..db. 61, B. 6 Cranch, ;L80,
Fletcher v. Peck.
In the case from Harris and X.1J,cnj 's reports, the
state of Maryland sought to set aside the grant by on
infomatiun, and it only shiews that upon such a process
the frad upon the stut,: may be given in evidence. In
tho present case no fraud or irregularity has been suf
ficiently alleged to set aside the deed.
1. It is said that the lands did not lie in Washington
county. This is no objection;( because the party had
a right to iremove his entry.

FEBRUARY TERM i81.
2. The charge that the consideration of 101. was FoLa's
frandulently inserted, is too vague and general. If the Lnss=
party had not paid the 0l1. he was still indebted to the
V.
state in that sum; and the deed is not for that caus6 WENDELL
old as to an innonent purchaser.
& Ax.
3. That there were no entries authorizing the warrants. This objection is equivocal, and involves questions of fact and law.
4. That the warrants were forgeries.
The patent cannot be declared void for any prior ir
regularity. In ejiectment you must stop at the patent.
And the prior patent gives the better title.
5. That at the time of the cession of the lands to the
United States there were no entries authorizing the
warrants.
This is in substance the same as the third objectiou.
It is too general and vague, and involves fact and law.
6. That no consideration was paid. This, if true,
does not avoid the patent; for if the money was not
paid Sevier remains debtor for it to the state.
.With regard to the letter to Glassgow, it is not. material what alteration was made as to the consideration.
No evidence of alteration was important, unless it were
such alteration as would vacate the deed. This letter
contains no such evidence. It must .have referred to
some other patent; because the letter was dated in November, 1795, and refers to some instrument then iu complete; but the patent in this case was completed in
the preceding August.
As to the issuing of the grant by the state of North
Carolina after the cession of the territory to the United
States, the act of cession provided for the issuing of
such grants upon entries previously made. It does not
appear that the entries in this case were not made before the cession. The Plaintiff's grant was also issi.ed
by the state of North Carolina, fivQ years after tho i)efendant's.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
vot's

LESSEEI

C. LxE, .in.reply..
The practice of"Englaiid, as to revoking patents, is
The

Wm~rL, no rule respecting the land laws of this country.

& AL.
-.-

register of' the land affice is only anjfficer of the law;
cank transfer nothing but Ptcording to his authority,
and cannot grant contrary to law.
The patent is void on its face. It appears to have
been obliterated. 'his fact, together with the letter to
Glasgow, ought to have been left to the jury as tending to prove a fraudulent alteration in the deed.
Unless the patent conveys all the land within the described botanrs, it is vague and uncertain. It cannot
'be limited to the 25,060 acres. If it conveys any thing,
it conveys the whole b0,000 acres.
February21st.

.Absent....TOD, J.

MAssHAL, Ch. .1. after stating tue case, delivered
the opinion of the Court as follows:

The first exception is to the. a.dmission of the granL
set up by the Dvfendants in bar of the Pltintiff's title.
This objection alleges the grant to be absolutely void
for thufee causes.The first is,
That no grant could lawfully issue for the quantity

of land expressed in this patent.
If this objection be well founded, it will beconclusive.
Its correctness depends on the laws of the state of North
Carolina.
The act of 1777, oli. I, opens tie land office of the
state, and directs an entry-taker to %e appointed in each
county, to receive entries made, by the citizens, of its
vacant lands, The third section of this act contains a
proviso that no person shall. be entitled to claim 9
greater quartity of land than 640 acres, where the survey shall he bounded" by vacant land, nor more than

FEBRUARY TE RI i8ts.
i,O00 acres between lines of land already surveyed for PoL's
other persons.

LESSE
10.

The fourt4 section fixes the price of land thus to be wrn.Enm
entered .at 50 shillings per hundred acres; after which & A..
follows Aproviso that if any person shall claim more
than 6-0' acres fTr himself, and lOo acres for his wife
and each of his children, he shall pay for every hundred
acres exceeding that quantity, five pounds,-and so in
proportion. But this permission to take up more than
the specified quantity of lands at five pounds for every
hundred acres, does n)t extend to Washington coilnty.
In June, 1781, ch. 7, the land office was closed, and
further entries for lands, prohibited. Jn April, 1783, ch. 2, the land office was again opened, and the price of lands fixed at ten pounds for each
hundred acres. The ninth section of this act authorizes
any citizen to enter, with the entry-taker to be appointed Oy the assembly, "6a claign for any lfads, provided
"such claim does not exceed 5,000 acres."
This act limits the amount for which an entry might
he made. But-the same person is not, in this act, forbidden to make differ'nt entries; and entries were trans;
ferrable. .No prohibition appears in the act, which
should prevent the assignee of several entries, or tie
person W'ho has nade several entries, from uniting them
in one surey and patent. The Cburt does not perceive,
" in r,,ason or in the directions of the law respicting sur* veys, any thing which should r-strain a surveyor from
including several entjies in the same survey. The forn,
of surveys, which is prescribed by law, if that rulb
should be considered as applicable to surveys made on
several entries united. may he observed, and, in this
case, is observed, notwithstanding the union of different
entries.
In April, i781, ch. 19, the legislature again took up
this subject, and, after reciting tfit it had been found
impracticable, to survey most of the entries of lanus
madb adjoining the large swamps in the eastern parts
of the state agreeable to the manner directed by the
acts then in force, without putting the makers thereof

SUPREME COURT U. S.
voL es to great and unnecessary expenses, empowered surveyors in the eastern parts of the state to survey for .ny
,., person or persons, his or their entries of lands in or
WENDELL adjoining any of the great swamps in one entire survey.
LESsEu

& AL.

The third section enacts, " that where two or more
"persons shall have entered or may hereafter enter
"lands jointly, or where two or more persons agree to
c"have their entries suiveyed jointly in one or more
" surveys, tL, surveyor is empowerrd and requiA'cd to
ccsurvey the same accordingly in one entire survey;
" and the persons so agreeing to have their entries surcc veyed, or entering lands jointly, shall hold the same
",as tenants in common, and not as joint-tenants."
The fourth section secures the same fees to the surveyor a"d secretary as they would have been entitled
to claim, had the entries been surveyed and granted
separately.
As all laws on the same subject are to be taken together, it is argued that this act shows the sense of the
legislature respecting the xr'do of surveying entries,
and must be taken into view in expounding the various
statutes on that subject. It evinces unequivocally the
legislative opinion that, as the law stood previoui to its
paAsage, a joint survey of two entries belonging to the
same person or to different persons, could not be made,
The right to join different entries -in the same survey,
then, must depend on this act.
The first and second sections of this act relate exclusively to entries- made in or adjoining to the great
swamps in the eastern parts of the state.
The third section is applicable to the whole country,
but provides only .for the case of entries made by two
or more persons. It is. therefore, contended that the
Court cannot extend the provision to the case of distinct entries belonging to the same person.
For this distinction it is impossible to conceive a rea-.
son: No motive can le imagined 1nr all.wing two or
more persons to unite, their entries in one survey, which
does not apply with at least as much force for allowing

FEBRUARY TERM isiS.
a single person to unite his entries adjoining each other roLit's
in one survey. It appears to the Court that the case LI'Ss,
10.
comes completely within the spirit, and is not opposed
by the letter of the law. The case provided for is, wEnIDELT
" where two or more persons agree to have their entries & A.'
",surveyed jointly," &c. Now this agrees-uent does not-prevent the'subseqaenl assignment of the entries to one
c f the parties; and the assignment is litseif the agreement of the assignor that the assignee inay surve., the
tha entries jointly or separately, at his eleetion. "lao
Coui-t is of opinion that, under a sound construction of
thislaw, entries which might he joined in one survey,
If remaining the property of two or more. persons. may
be.so joined, though they become the property of i single person.
The second objection to the admission of the grant
is, that the-amount of the consideration origii:dly expressed on its face appears to have been torn out.
The grant stands thus: -for
c of pounds," &C.

and in consideration

The Court is unanimously and eleariy of opinion that
there is nothing in this objection. It-is not suggested,
nor is there any reason to believe, that the words were
obliterated for fraudulent purpbsea, or fob the purpose
of avoiding the grant. They may have been taken out
by some accident ; and there is no difficulty in supplying the lost words. The consideration pnid was ten
]pounds for each hundred acres ; and theye can be no
doubt that the word " ten" is the word which is obliterated. Had the whole grant been lost, a copy might
have been given in evidence; and it would be strange
if the original should be excluded because a word which
could not be mistaken, and which, indeed, is not esential to the validityof the grant, has become illegible.
The third exception is, that the grant, on its face,
appears fraudulent, because it has issued for 25,060

acres of land, alth6"ugh the lines which circumsc'rihe it,
and which 'are recited in it comprehend upwards of
0,000 acres.
Without inquiring into the effect of a graftt conveyYOL. IX.
I%

98

SUPHEME COURT U. S

.Poi's ing 50,00. acres of lind under a sale of 2V,000 acreg,
it will bi sufficient to observe that,'in this caseotho 4ur". .plus land i.comprehended in prior vntries, and. is con.
WENiDLL stquefitly not conveyed by .this-grant. This.exceptiong
& AL.. therefore, is inapplicable to the case.
LESSE

It is the opinion of this Court that there was no or.
ror in permitting the grant under which the Defendant
claimed title, to go to the jury.
Te remaining exceptions were taken aftei the grant
was before the jury, and are ftr'causes not apparexit on
Its face. They present one general questio of great
importance to land holders in the state of Tennessee.
'It is-this :'Is it, in.any, and, if in auly, in what, eases,
allowable, in an ejectinent, to Impeach a grant from the
state, for causes anterior to its being issued ?.
Incases depending on the statutes of a state, and
more especially in those respecting titles to land, this
Court adopts the construction bf the state where that
construction is settled, and can be ascertairled. But it
is -not understood that the Courts of Tennesse- have de.cided any other point bearihg on the subject than thisp
that unde0 their statutis declaring an elder grAnt founded on ' younger .try to be void, the priori(y of enfties
is exaniinable at law; and that a jtnior patent fouinled
on'a prior enitry bhall prevaif in an ejectment againlsta

scnioi patent founded on a'jbnior entity. The question
•whether there are other cases in which a party may, at
law, go. beyond'the gritnt fdr the'purposeof avoidiig it
remains undecided.
. Thelaws for the sale of pulic lards provide many
.guards to se'ure ihe reglilarify of grants, to protect the
Micipient rights-of individuals, aad also to protect'tho
state fromimposihon.- Officers are- appointed to superintend the business; and rules are framed prescribing
their duty. These rules are, in general. directory; and
when all the .plocbedings te completed by a patent issued by the authority of the*state, 'a compliance With
these.rules is pre-sjiupposed. That every lperquisite
has' been performed, is an inference properly deducible,
and which every man has a right to draw from the existence of the grant itself. It would, therefore, be oe-

FEBRUARY TERbt

.Tii.

"tremely unreasonable to avoid a grant in any Court for roL's
irregularities in the conduct of those who areappointed LESSEE
'.
by the government to supervise the progrn ssive course
of p. title from its comiuencerfint to its consummation wExP.ix
in a patent. But there are some things so essential to & x..
the validity of the contract, that the great pi in( ipl. s of
justice and of law would be vi',Iated, did there not exist
some tribunal to which an Wijured party might appeal,
and in which tife means by which an elder title was acquired, might be examined. In general, a Court of
equity appears to be a tribunal better adapted to this
object than a Court of law. On an ejectient, the pleadings give no notice of those latent defccts of wh;ch the
party means to avail himself; anil, should he be allowed to use them, the holderof the elder grant might often
be surprized. But iri equity, the specific points must
be brought into view; the" various circumstances connected with those points are considered ; and all the
testimony respecting them may be laid before the Court.
The defects in the title are the p~trticular bjects of investigation ; and the decision or a Court in the last resort upon them is decisive. The Court may,,.on a view
of the Whole case, annex equitable conditions to its decree, or order what may be reasonable, without absolutely avoiding a whole grant. In the general, then, a
Court -of equity is the more eligible tribunal for these
questions; and they ought to be excluded from d Court
of law. But there are cases in.which a grant is absolutely void; as where the stito has no title to the thing
granted; or where the officer had no authority to issue
tile grant. In. such cases,, the validity of tie grant is
necessarily examinable at law.
Having premised these gener.d piinciples, the Court
will proceed to cousider the exceptions to the opinion of
the Cirruit Court in this case, and the testimony rejected by that opinion.
The case does not present distinct excepti.gns to be
considered separately, but a single t xeeption to a single

opinion, rejecting the whole testimony ofti.red by the
Plaintif. " The Plaintiff offered to prove that no entries
we ever made authorizing the issuing of the warrants
on which the grant to Sevier was founded, and that the
warrants themselves were forgeries. He also offered

SUPREME COURT U. S.
to prove that, at the time of the cession to congress of
the territory in which tlivwse lands lie, the warrants did
not exist, nor were there any locations in the office from
ivE
LL which they purport to have issued, to justify their is& AL. s,,ig.
POLK's
iFss.
V.

In the state of North Carolina itself, the want of an
entry would seem to be a defect sufficient to render a
grant null.
The act of 1777, which opens the land office and directs the appointment of an officer in each county, denominated an entry-taker, to receive entries of all vacant lands in his county, directs the entry taker, if the
lands shall not be claimed by some other person within
three months, to dpliver to the party a copy of the onti;y with its prOper number, and an order to the county
sfirve r to survey the same. This order is called a
warrant.
The ninth section of the act then declares, "that
"every right, &c. by any person or persons set up or
,pretended to any of the before mentioned lands, which
"shall not be obtained in manner by this act directed,
"or by purchase or inheritance from some person or
"persons becoming proprietors by virtu6 thereof, or
"which shall be obtained in fraud, evasion or elusion
"of the proyis.ions and restrictions thereof, shall be
" deemed and are hereby declarel utterly void."
The act of 1783, which agains opens the land office,
pLppoints an entry-taker for the western district, and
prescribes rules for making entries in his oflice, and for
granting warrants similar to those which had been
framd for the government of the entry-takers of the
rerpective counties.
In the year 1789 North Carolina ceded to congress
the territory in .vhich the lands lie for which Sovier's
grant was made, reserving, h6wever, all existing rights
Jnder the state, which were to be perfected according
to the laws of North .0arolina. This cession was accepted by congress.
Sevier's survey is dated on the 26th'day of May, 1795.

FEBRUARY TERM Isis.
The lands for which the warrants were granted, by Yo h's
virtue of which the survey was made, lie within that LEss
district of country ior which the land office was opened
V.
by the act of 1777. Had the survey been made on the wENDELL
land originally claimed by these warrants, it must have & .4m.
been a case directly within the ninth section of the act;
and the right is declared by that section to be utterly
void. But the survey was made dn different lands by
virtue of an act which cmpowers the surveyor so to do
in all cases of entries on lands prei ,usly apprapriated.
This clause in the law, howevir, does not authorize a
survey where no entry has'been made; and such survey would also come completely within the provision of
the ninth section. In such case, there is no power in
the agents of the state to make the grant; and a grant
so obtained is declared to be void.
This subject is placed in a very strong point of vie%%
by considering it in connexion with the cession made to
the United States. After that cession, the state of
Worth Carolina had no power to sell an acre of laud
within the ceded territory. No right could be acquired
under the laws of that state. But the right was reserved to perfect incipient titles. The fact that this 'title
accrued before the cession does not appear on the face
of the grant. .t is, of course, open to examination.
The survey was not made until May, 1795, many years
posterior to the cession. It purports, however, to have
been made by virtue of certain warrants founded on entries which may have been made before tlhe cession.
But if these warrants had no existence at tlie time o
the cession, if there were no entries to justify them,
what right could this grantee have had at the time of
tihe cession? The Court can perceive none; and if
none existed, the gr-ant is vold for want of power in the
state of North Cakolina to.make it.
If, as the Plaintiff offered to prov the entries were
never made, and the warrants were forgeries, then no
right accrued under the act of 1777; no purchae of
the land was made from the state; and, independent of
the act of cession to the United States, the grant is void
by the express words of the law.
If entries were made in the county of Washington.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PoL's but no commencement of. right had taken place in the
ceded territory previous to the cession, so as to bring

LEssEE

v.

& AL.

the party withip the rcserration contuined in the a't of
cession. then the grant must be void, there being no'authority in'the-grantor to make it. In rejecting testimony to thesepoints, the Circuit Court erred; and their
judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded for
a new trial.

1815.

THE SHIP RICKNMOND,

WENDELL

Zeb.

isth.

".

THE UNITED STATES.

4tbsent....TorbD

.7.

The moiAPPEAL from the sentence of the Circnit Court for
tereourse nct the district of Georgia ailirmng the sentence of the dL.

triet Court, which condemned thl ship Richmond, for a
p. 13, which - violation of the non-ifltercorsc act of 28th oftJune, i80M ,
reu',res a yes- vol. 10, p. 13,
by departing from Philadblphia bound on
we boun(l to a
pe.r~iittejlport a foreign voyage to a permitted port, without having
toeive bond i. given bond not to go to a prohibited port.
of28hnf.lune,
1809. Vol. lp

double the amout of irssel and cargo

The case waq argued

by

IARPER

for tie Appellant

rot t) go to a and Jo.s and PW.uqEy for the United States.
Irohibited
port, is applis l sailin
sel satilhog in
ballast.
Iarnerehant
.Wessel ofthe
United States,
Weseized by
the naval force
c the United

Pebrtary 22d.
MAUSIAL;"eCh.

as

follows:

.bscid ... TODD,

J.

J. delivered the oninion of the Cout

The ship Richmond, an American registered vessel,

,itbin sailed froin Philadelphla in ballast, in December, 1809,
tn- te-itorisi with a clearance for New York, but proceeded to Portsa
to of mouth in'Great Britain, where she arrived in 1810., Sie
friendly, pow- made two voyages to Amelia isla'nd in East Florida,
Cr f il-1 dluring the second of which she was seized in St. Mary's
tion ofthelaws
J.nuary lOth, 1812; and .liofthe United river by gun-boat N.. 6,
itisan
"t..te,,.belled io the distriet CoutAof Geor gia, for violating the
ohane .sgaicnt
tt powr act passed the 28th of June, 1809, for amending the nion.'-te,

