SUPREME COURT U. S.
PoL's but no commencement of. right had taken place in the
ceded territory previous to the cession, so as to bring

LEssEE

v.

& AL.

the party withip the rcserration contuined in the a't of
cession. then the grant must be void, there being no'authority in'the-grantor to make it. In rejecting testimony to thesepoints, the Circuit Court erred; and their
judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded for
a new trial.

1815.

THE SHIP RICKNMOND,

WENDELL

Zeb.

isth.

".

THE UNITED STATES.

4tbsent....TorbD

.7.

The moiAPPEAL from the sentence of the Circnit Court for
tereourse nct the district of Georgia ailirmng the sentence of the dL.

triet Court, which condemned thl ship Richmond, for a
p. 13, which - violation of the non-ifltercorsc act of 28th oftJune, i80M ,
reu',res a yes- vol. 10, p. 13,
by departing from Philadblphia bound on
we boun(l to a
pe.r~iittejlport a foreign voyage to a permitted port, without having
toeive bond i. given bond not to go to a prohibited port.
of28hnf.lune,
1809. Vol. lp

double the amout of irssel and cargo

The case waq argued

by

IARPER

for tie Appellant

rot t) go to a and Jo.s and PW.uqEy for the United States.
Irohibited
port, is applis l sailin
sel satilhog in
ballast.
Iarnerehant
.Wessel ofthe
United States,
Weseized by
the naval force
c the United

Pebrtary 22d.
MAUSIAL;"eCh.

as

follows:

.bscid ... TODD,

J.

J. delivered the oninion of the Cout

The ship Richmond, an American registered vessel,

,itbin sailed froin Philadelphla in ballast, in December, 1809,
tn- te-itorisi with a clearance for New York, but proceeded to Portsa
to of mouth in'Great Britain, where she arrived in 1810., Sie
friendly, pow- made two voyages to Amelia isla'nd in East Florida,
Cr f il-1 dluring the second of which she was seized in St. Mary's
tion ofthelaws
J.nuary lOth, 1812; and .liofthe United river by gun-boat N.. 6,
itisan
"t..te,,.belled io the distriet CoutAof Geor gia, for violating the
ohane .sgaicnt
tt powr act passed the 28th of June, 1809, for amending the nion.'-te,

FEBRUARY TERM i81,

103

intercourse law. The Richmond was condemned in both siir
the. district and circuit Courts, anl from their sentence R1cumozD
V.
the Claimants' have appealed to.this Court.
TI.STATES.

The Claimants contend,
M11101 mut
=Uwztcd
te- be

tva the t

t. That the vessel was not liable to forfeiture.

,overnmnents.
tarko no
2. That the seizure was made within the territory ofrThsOtrte

-

CC,Spain, and that all proceedings founded thereon arec72uc

The taw dO¢a

void.

nqt cenutee.

'When the Richmond sailed from Philadelphia, corn- uidi the mbshoen
mercial intercourse between the ports of Great Britain, "
i wt tt.r,
and those of the wnited States, was permitted. Btth
act ofthe 28th (faJue, 1809, vol. 0, p. 13, enact .t e n 0 the 15.
port
po lace it cit purth
vessel
"s-neship or.,,~
atnrrhpr.
~to a foreign
~ hasrvtmlsalwtthmtrhv
~been
~~~t
ienodth
~~ bound
~ntrcosnte
=oaneul the
ormaty be thus
,, which coiiercio
permitted, except, -&c. shall be alto: wed to depart unlss
shi
galv"the ovier or wies coignee or factor of such
"por vesstl shall, with the master, havegiven bond, with
cone or inure sureties, to the. United States,. in a sim
of thei vessel and cat-go, that the vcs"cdouble the valuet
"cset shall not proceed to any pct -or place with which
nor be
"commercial intercoursetds not thus parmiited-,
cdirectly nor indirectly eugred during tle voyage in
alace." If a vessel slia
th"any trade with such port or
depart without having gi'en such bond. tho vesel vitha

her cargo are declared to be wholly forfeited.

It is contended that this act does not apply to vessela
'departing from the United States to a purnitted pot. in

ballast.
nThe at i4 certainly not expressed wvith all the precision that could be wispt. The-ase conte mplated by
the legislature mo1(st probably wa~s that of a vessel sailing
thiatn ve.nieve
with a cargo; but there is reason lo b
se departing in ballast also, was within the maihg and

intent of tbe law.' The, botrd is providi d to prevent a
breach of the. existing, restrictive laws Ly a W'ssel clearing out or sailing For a peraaitt. dIport, but actually proceed ing to a prohibited port. This mtight be (lont- by a
vessel with or, Without a cargo:; and the condi ionm of the6
bond would be violated. in.its letter as well -aw spirit, by

SUPl:IEME COURT U. S.
sIP

thp ve.sels sailing without the cargo to a prohibited port

Court uindei-4tands the law, then, directing a bond
The
SlICHNMOND
to be given in double the value of the vessel ad carlo,
•".
V.STA'rES. to apply to dhe cargo if there be a cargo, but to the ves-

sel only if there be no cat-go.

The seizure of an American vessel within the teiritorial jurisdiction of a foreign power, is certainly an offence against that power, which imust be adjusted between the two governments. This Cou't can take no
cognizance. of it; and the majority of the Court is of
opinion that the la, does not connect that trespass, if
it be one, with the subsequent seizure by tile civil authority, under the proces of the District Court, so as to
annul the proceedings of ,that Court against the vessel.
One judge, who does not'concur in this opinion, considers the testimony as sufficient to prove that the Richmsond, when first seized by the gun-boat, was within the
jurisdictional limits of the United States.'
The sentence is affirmed with costs.

i815.
Feb.

'23d.

ARN OLD- AND OTHERS
V.

TIHE UNITED STATES.

Rhode

ERROR to the Circuit Court, for the district of
The dontile
dutiesimpoied Island, ii an action of debt, upon a bond in the penality
.by the act ot'of 3400 dollars, given July 2d, 1812, 'for duties at the

ust, utom
.8,
hbuse. The cause was decided below upon dogotis which murer to the pleas of the Defendahts who were the prinih cipal and sureties in the bond.
aiol

July

trict ou" that

It wa-a 'action of debt on a bond,1ated July 2, 1812,
given to. the United States for $310B. fIhjW condition of
tion, -o as to the bond, is is followb, viz. " The condition of this
?i-tto dues, "obljga on is such that if 'the 'above binmnden, S. G.
it is nreeoury "Arnold,'&e,. shall and do, on or beforo the d day or'
tit ,, October next, well and truly pay or cause to be paid
hSl
tO
it"unto the colliectoi"of the customs for the district of Pro*an
thrivt

AqT.b constitute
an importa-

