FEBRUARY TFRDM 1815.
ThE LIIdiED SIATES
Vo.

tis.
reb.

-1th.

THE CARGO OF THE SBIP FANNY,
JEIIN

GS, MASTE R.

A~bsent ....
ToDn, J.
APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court for trakr tite
the tisirit of Conuecticut, restoring the propert) W the "I""'
Qtr
owr-e act,
Claimants.

ISO,a vmt-a
frm Grnt

.irnn in
kd a

The American ship Fanny, was lad!en at Greenock,iai rO

Xta

Scoiland, vith a cargo.of Itih
guods, the propei- (f hev.tothe
citizens of the Unitci States, and sailed front thence on V'.Sti-C to
till. -th day of J uly, I8M2, after the relieal of tIm nrder.- 'zctasfr=m
heromer
in cmncil, and before
• the war between Great Britain and New
York-in

the United States was known in Greenck. The orders and irnce=.
dme anto the captain were to proceed to New York; but unless rv,,..to
he was perfectly sure of being allowed an entrance for d._irfltw
y
c-e irf n twfnh
ship and cargo, at Nqew York, he was not togo into tle tomake ahawaters of the United States, hit to send up aIt pilot boat 14r. and if

with his letters, so that the consignees might fix upon a

prevented by a
=uifil'

. Npt.
port of discharge. The master iad no knowledf, of the
war until his arrival on the coast, when lie received it _.
t
off Montau.;point, from a pilot boat, who also infoine
ullIII
i, iIn
tha. several Britisi frigates were. olf Sandy Hook, capturing American vessels. Whereupon lie despatched the lfora.ne
pilat boat, with letters for his oiwners byathe w~ay of New
London. Soon afterwards it became calm and the hip
drifting too near the shore lie dropped anchor. In the
course of thI'night it came on to blow agale, and finding
it impos.,ible to lay there lie attempted to get under weigh
and stand off, but b'f re lie could get- up the anrhor and
make sail he drifted so far in that lie could not fetit Montaug p-.int, and the pilot informing him that there was
good anchorage ground in Fort-liond-bay, and that it
would not bp safe. to keep out. lie proceeded with he ship
to that bay, intending to stand out as soon as the storm
abated. Ilaving there cast anrhor and rode out thegale,
his crew refused to get under meigh to go out of' the waters of the United States, alleging tht ttey understood
he bad a British license, and was going to put his ship

SUPREME COURT U. S.
U. STATES under the protection of British ships of war and they
were afraid of being impressed. He then determined to
vI.
come out into the sound an.[ there waitfor orders, withTHE
CARGO OF out going into any port. He dio so, but was boarded
about half way from Fort-pond-by to the race, Fisher'a
THE
FA NY. island bearing north, and seized by a revenue cutter,
N.ho carried h.m into New London, where the cargo was
libelled for having been shipped in Great Britain with
the knowledge. of the master, with intent to be imported
into the United States. contrary to the provisions of 'the
non-intercourse act of t st .Thiue, 1809, Vol. 10, p. 13.
In the district Court the cargo was condemne:d, but %as
r(stored by the Circuit Court. From this sentence the
United States appealed.
The cause was argued by JoNEs, for the United States,
and. DAGGETT, for the Claimants, in the absence ot the
reporter.
*alrc4lt Ist. Absent....ToDD .
.,ouxsn,
fillows:

. delivered the opinion of the Court as

This case bears every feature of fairness. The voyage was undertaken upon the kepeal of the orders in.
council. The vessel w.s lad, n in the sho,.t sliace of fiour
days, and saiiled without a knowledge of the war. 11er
destination was alterriativc-to New York, it' she could
eliter; if not, to a British pcirt. Upon arriving off MoIItaug, she receives notice of the war, and of, the danger
of capture in praecutini hter voyage to New York. A
pilt boat is th'n dispatx hed to New London by the .captain with notice to bis owners of his situation, and a re.
quest for ifistrtuctions.
To call off for instructions was fair and justifiable;
and to obtain them it was neces.a'ry that lie should await
the return of the pilot boat. Thus circumstanced, a
caln obliges him to drop anchor to prevent his drifting

on shore and a storm forces him into a bay for shelter.
Whilst there, his crew mutiny, and prevent his leaving
the bay, in oi'der to lie off and await the return of hir
messenger; and whilst plying in the waters betweei

FEBRUARY TERM iSi5.
Montaug and New London, he is seized by the revenue u. sTA~rs
i:.
cutter, anti forced-into the latter porL We are of .pinion
TILE
that there was nothing either in action or intention which
subjected this'vessel to municipal tr'friture. A condem- cARoo oF
nation is claimed on no otler'ground ; aiid the decree of Tfl1
FALIV'.
of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be affirmed.
The claiins of the several parcels of rerchandize seized in the Fanny, rest on the same circumstances, and
must likewise be restored.

THE FRANCES, BoyER,

MASTER,

(Dinhdam and iudloilph's claim.)

I8f5.
Fb.

IS&.

,Obsent....TonD 3.
IN this case fairtlier proof was ordered at the last if a 'Bri
mmutt OM.
with Wis
m,
(See .dtte- o. 8,p. 354.)

term.

PINKIN

,

for the Claimants.

ert of

i exnb.
Randolph by tue not
The property vested in Dunham.and
canfrmty
shipm:.nt. It

was made in couisequenco:of, althoii gh not wvoidt eor
cr.
strictly in conformity with, their orders; and delive'y nF an
to the master of tlizi vessi-l was tantamount to a delive- "in1111., .lu
ry to themselves. The invoices and bills of lading all kniri, gi-stated the goods to be shipped on their account awl risk. i. tht American
M
~ptian!zoo-e
wiar-m
.
"
lnafter
2-t
slipment
But if the property did not pass by the
thereis no reason why it should rint pass in transilu, e
so that it be before capture. It is true that it can nt or rjeiet
o.
re
vest in transitaso as to defeat a vested belligere.nt ri.
But if the transfer take place, according to the original ta uion the
tat they
terms of the contract, before a belligent right has .tccru- tit,
wi
ed, it is not within the principle nor the spirit.of the Cut
rule. 'If the further proof shows that the property had =,Ozcr a t
th oer;ts
it in the
""puts
absolutely vested in Dunham• and Randolph before the
TV cthe
captue, it must be restored.
I~~ihmfr.cdit
eith,? to
The further proof shows that the invoice, stating the e= tie uaIo'e
abipment to he made for their account and risk, was utheAte-

