FEBRUARY TERM 18:1.
CARGO OF THE SHIP HAZARD

V.
CAMPBELL Ami

1815.
Abrch d

omEns.

.d!bsint,...ToD%,X"
APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court for weutsi corce

tie district of Georgia, affirming that of the Circuit 'tB
If , Prty.-Tim
Court which .condemned the cargo of the Russian ship Frfrther
HIazard,
as Bitish property.

The Hazard was captured in December, 1813, about
6 miles from the land of Amelia Island, by a boat from
the United States Flotilla, and carried into St. Mary's,
in Georgia. The boarding officer, after examining the
ship's papers, returned them to the captain, and asked
the captain's permission to stay on board -that night,
which was granted ; and at the request of the captain.
the boarding officer assisted in piloting the ship over the
bar of St. Mary's river, and brought her to anchor, after which he asked again for the ship's papers and then
declared his intention to take the ship to St. Mlary's.
The captain in his protest states that the ship anchored
nearer to the Spanish shore and harbour than to any
other. The cargo was claimed in behalf of Luning, Gogel Co. of Gottenburg.
CHAALTON

and P. B. KIn,_for the .ppelans, con-

tended,
1. That in as much as RusSia and the United States,
had both adopted the'principles of the armed neutrality,
the principle, that free ships should make free groods,
was, as between those two nations, to be considered as,
part of the law of nations,.and that the cargo was protected by the Russian flag.'
2 That the capture was made within the territorial
jurisdiction of Spain, and therefore void.

3. That the boarding officer practised a rusede guerre,
not justifiable towards a neutral. Fraud in warmaybe

irrremf-d.

206
VARGO oF

SDIP
IIAZAnD

Iv.

SUPREME COURT U. S,

practised towards an enemy, but not towards a friend.
Duponceau's Bynkershoek, 15. There ought to have iveen
a vis major on the part of the. Americaits. They ought
not to have decoyed the vessel out of,neutral waters in.

CAMPBLLT order
&o0Th &:Is.

to capture her.

4. That the testimony'was not sufficient t counteractthe doczimentary evidence as to the interest of the 'Wainants. And,
5. That as the original German instructions from
Luning. Gogel & Co. were taken a-*ay by the'capturs,
and not produced on the trial, the Claimants ought to be
allowed time for further proof.
JoNEs and P-INKNEY, contra, insisted,
1. That" there was no foundation for the idea that
there can be a law of nations in force between Russia and
the Unite-d States; which is not equally in force between
the United States and all other nations. The United
States do not contend that by the law of nations free
ships make free goods.
q. That there is no foundation in fact for the al.
legation that the ship was captured within the jutisdiction of Spain; and if there was, Spain has not complained3. The artifice used, (if any -was used) was perfectly
justifiable. A neutral vessel must submit at all events.
The deceit lroduced no eflrct of which the Claimants
can complain.
4. That the evidence of fraud, in the use of the names
of Luning..Gogel & Co. to cover this property was too
manifest to require, argument. And,
6. That in a case so clearly fraudijlent as this, further
proof ought not to be allowed. It is alleged that the
German instructions have been fi audulently withheld by
th captors; their contents have been stated ift
substance by the super argo ; and if they were hero they
could.not alter the state of the case.

FEBRUARY TERI ii.
.3arC7L 6th.

Ibsed ....TODD, J.

LIVINGSTON.. J. delivered the opinion of the Court as
follows:

CAXIGG 01
UA

zAAD
T.

.The ship Hazard and cargo were libelled as prize of &oTnuns.
war in the District Court of Georgia,- where the latter
was condemned, and the ship restored to the master with
an alowance for freight. This sentence being aflirmed
by the Circuit Court, an appeal as to the cargo was taken to this Court.
The cargo was claimed in behalf -of Mesqrs. Luning,
Gogel & Co. pobjects of Sweden, and residing at Gittenburg. It is impossible to look at the,proofs in this cause,
without being at once convinced that this huse never
had any intrest in it. The papers found on board leave.
not the smallest doubt as to the hostile character of the
property, which is also abundantly proved by the witne.ses who were examined in the district Court. The ship.-ment was made by Mr. Worrall) a British merchant at
Liverpool, and an Enish pupercargo put on hoard by
the name of Diggles. under whom Mr. Dalmer, who filed
the claimi was to act as assistant supercargo. Between
Mr. Warral! and AMr. Lowden, who makes sonic figure
in this transaction, there is proved to esist such an intimate connexion as to render the one chargeable for' the
declaratious aud acts of the other, so far as they regard
this shipment. Mr. Lowden, in a letter to his correspondent at Charleston, which was on board of the Hazard. says-

There is likely to be a great dql of business

"cdone betwixt this and Amelia lslan;d.' The vessel that
"tis
O goes by has about 90001. worth on hoard. The
",parties interested are mq pa.ticular friends." And a
little further. onIt may perhaps be satisractory ta
"know that we have fil and unlimited authority froln
"a respectable house in Gottenburg. to make use of
",their name upon any occasion whatever ; so that, in
" case of capture or detention, the necessary pro ,f could
"easily be p oduced of the neutrality of the property."
Mr. Worrall writes to Mr. Smith. of Charleston. that
- the Russian vessel Hazard, bound to Amelia Island,
"was laden by him in codji.nction 'with somne other
dfriends." There was. also, a mnemoi'andum on board
for the government of the "sipurcargorsigned by Low-

2O08
CAGo

SUPREME COURT U. S.

oF den, containing, among others, this instruction,, should

"you be boarded at sea by men of war or privateersy
"you must uniformly declare the property to belong to
"Luning, Gogel & Co:of Gottf nburg, as it is 'representV.
cOi fuELL "ed to be by the documents accompanying the cargo.
&OTHERS. "Men of war are alit to board under false colors, and
,, if you dont stick to the text, you may be deceived." It
may be asked here, why was the supercargo thus cautioned to be on his guard, unless he-was in the secret, as
he doubtless was, that the docunients were colorable, and
the property ni fact British ?
SUIP

flAZARD

Mr. Dalmer,, in the claim interposed by him for the
car.go, does not swear to its neutrality, but only that the
gentlemen at Gottenburg are owners thereof, as far'as
he is informed ; and it is deserving of attention that Mr.
Diggles, the supercargo,, not only does not unite wiLh the
assistant supercargo in filing this claim, but, on being,
brought before the commissioners, refusesAo be swo'n or
examined as a witness in the cause. On his examination,
sometime afterwards, before the district judge, he states
that "h e is not acquainted with the owners of the cargo
,, or any part of it, and cannot swear that Luning, Go"gel & Co. are the-owners : that he received his instruc" tions from Mr. Worrall as agent of that house."
There was a short-letter of instructions on board, to
Oiggles and Dalmer, dated 8th October, i813, and proved.to be signed by Luning, Gogel & Co. but the body
of which must, no doubt, have been written by Mr. Worrail; or under his direction.
Now although the'invoice be made out in the name
and for the account and risk of Luning, Gogel & Co. and
a letter of instructions signed by them was found on
board, it would be giving more weight to these formal
documents than they are entitled to, should we say, that
they have satisfied us, nntwithstanding the mass of evidenc6 which this cause presents to the contrary, that the
property was other than British through every stage of
this transaction. Indeed, the advocates of the Appellant, despairing to convince the Court of its ne,:trality,
rely principally on an irregularity in the capture, and
on a suppression'by the captors'of aletter of instructions

]FEBRUARY TERI 116.
from Lningg Gogel & Co. which it is said came to their
haiids.-

CARGO 01

sHm
IIAZAJID

The capture it is alleged was made within the limits
v.
andjurisdiction of Spain. Of this there- is no sufficient cAurnwz
evidence, which renders it unnecessary to say what influ- &oTnRts.
ence that fact, if established, might have on thq ultimate
decision of the Court. The suppression of the paper in
question is also very imperfectly made out; and if it had
been brought into Court and formed part of the evidence
in: the cause, it could not possibl& do the Appellant afly
good; ,for a paper ierely signed by Luning, Gogel &
Co. and converted into a letter of instructions by Mr.
Worrall, in Liverpool, td suit his own purposes, as must
have been the case here, could Eave but liftle effect ill removing any one of the. niumerous doubts which the citcumstances of this case are so well ca1culated to excite.
A motion has also been made for an order ror further
proof. If the Court entertained any difficulty as to the
reality (if this transaction, or believeettliat Messrs. Luning, Gogel & Co. could prove that they were, in fact;
the owners of this property, perhaps itmight listen to
the application late as it is; but believing, as it does,
that the evidence, as it now stands, is not susceptible of
any satisfactory explanation, and that the captors havL
made out a clear title to the whole cargo shipped by Mr.,
Woyral, it cannot, in justice to them, make any such
order.
,The sent~nce of the Circuit Court is, therefore, unanimously affirmed with costs.

SHIP SOCIETE, MAP.TiasoN, BtAsT.U.

1815.

March
2bseul....TonD,

OJ.

J.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court if a

aneal

for othe ilistrict of Georgia, affirming the decrde of the vetl te cap.
district Court which allowed freight pro rata itineris, to turd an. hcr
heis"" 'Waythe Swedish ship Societe, captured on her outward voy-'Zst
fm Ens"VOL. Ix.27

