SUPREME COURT U. S:
to the unassuming conduct of Very whilst on board the

THE
PnOTIUS,

Grotius. from which they inferred that he was thero
merely as a passenger, is entirely consistent with the
IASTE.%. arrangement proved to have been made on board of the
privatecr that lie was not to interfere in the navication
of the vessel.

SHEAFE,

Upon the whole it is the opinion of a majority of the
Court that the validity of the capture of thoe Grotius as
prize of war is sufficiently established by the evidence,
and the captain having acquiesced in the subsequent arrangement as to the mode of sending in the vessel, she
ought to have been condenined to the use of the captors.
The dlecree of the Circuit Court condemning the ship
Grofius, &-. to the United States is reversed; and the
Court proreeding to) give such decree as the said Circuit
Court ought have given, it is further decreed and ordered that tle said ship be condemned as lawful prize to

th captors..
I81s.
Feb

GETTINGS -o. BURCH'S ADMINIsTRATIx.

02%

.ftbiseerror pn
It is error i,
the 'Orphan s
Couil fhr the cult
Washington
un1Y (r in.the

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the CirCourt for the district of Columbia, aflirrning that of
Orplhan's Court for the county of Washington.

the district of
Columbia
to
On the 13thilgeide a cause
ngainstthe an--urc,,
filed in
-swer of a Dc- setting
feidiant, if thr '

of February, 1813, the Appellqe, 3ano
the Orphan's Couirt a petition or libel

fol-th that by an order of that Court on the 11th
1805, the property of the deceased in her hands
beer. denicdby was delivered to the. Appellant who had become one of
a repitin ;.her sureties in the administration bondin the year1803,
Answerhadnt of June.
2nri ifthere be

1

no evidmene i and who obtained an order of that Court to sell the
the recording same. That he had made no return of sales, nor rencon ausoier dercd any account of his proceeding,
but still has tim
property ini
his possession, consisting of a negro woman
and her four children ; and praying that the property
may be re-delivered to her, she having been appointed
guardian of the infant children of the deceased, and he

FEBRUARY TERM 18i5.
ing ready to give good security to indemnity the Appel- Gs'rrIA,
iant against his responsibility on her administration
V.
bond, and to pay him any monies he may have paid oil nrncu.
her account as adiniaistratix.
A citation having been issued, the Appellant appeared
and filed his answer, in which lie says that. in pursuance
of the order of the Court he duly sold the property, and
is ready to account for the proceeds.
It does not appear by the record that any foninal replicbtion in writing was filed to this answer; and thai
circumstance seems to have passed unnoticed in the.
Courts below, and the cause was tried without any objection having been made on that ground.
Upon the trial of the cause in the Orphan's Court the
.judge ordered ana decreed that the Appellant should deliver up the property to the Appellee, upon her paying
him certain sums of money which lie had paid for her
as administratrix. The record does not show what evidence was before the Orphan's Court respecting thi sale
of the property by Gettings.
Upon the appeal to the Circuit Court, the sentence of
the Orphan's Court was affirmed.
The case was argued by JoNps,for the JJi)claut, and
by F. S. KEY, for the .Appellee, in the absence of tie repdrter.
Febrary 23d.
MAusuALI.,

.Absent....ToDD, J.

Ch..J. ordeied the following decree to he

enrolled :
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record of the proceedings of the Orphan's Court okr
the county of Washington, and of the Circuit Court for
the said county, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court that

T6e decree of the Orphan's Court for the county of
*Washington, ordering the said Kenzy Gettings to deli.
ver to the said Jane Burch, as adininLstratrix of Jesse
Burch, decset, the slaves in tle said decree mention-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ed, when the petitioner had not by replication denied
the answer of the Defendant, in which he states a salo
of the.said slaves in pursuance of an order of the said
. Orphan's Court, 'and without receiving any evidence
tiat the said slaves were not sold, 'or that they remain
still in possessina of the said Defendant, is erroneous,
and that the dec'ee of the Circuit Court, aflirmn"g the
same, is also erroneous; and that the said decree o affirmance ought to be reversed and ann' lled, and the
cause remanded to the said Circuit Court with directions to reverse the said decree of the said Orphan's
Court, and to remand the cause to the said Couet that
further proceedings my he had therein according to
law. All which is ordered and decreed accordingly.

GETTIINGS

v.
iauncir,
.-

Marsh

THE UNITED STATES
10th.

V/.

"BRYAN AND WOODCOCK.
(Garnishees of Hendrickson.)

.9b'sent ....T3DD,.
lhe .h Sec.
ERROR
(-n of the art Delawar
of the 3d of
.3areh, 17-7,

I,

to the Circuit Court for the district of

-iir.g
a priorlo pay ment

States out

This was an attachment of the effects of Hendrick_
son, a bankrupt, in the hands of his assignees, Bryan
of and Woodcock.

the. eFects of
their dt-hto. ,
did not apply

-Hendrickson was stirety foreGiorge Bush, late colto a debt due lector of the customs at Wilmington, in an ollicial bond
nofcilbn
gtn
befom e 1
Bush lied on the 2d of Fbt.uary, 1797,
efore, that dated in i791.
vct,
althdugh BY an adjustment of his accounts at' the treasury in
te lldalicc,
s adiust
'not iol, it appeared fhat the balance agamnst him was
cd at the rea. %3, 53 06.

sury nntil after
the act ww

I-AL

In the Court below it was agreed that the case should
depend on the question, -' Whether, under the 6th sec,tion of the act of congress of March the 5d, 1797. the
"United States are entitled to satisfaction- of their de.

