FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
Several other opinions were given by the judge, to TABY.U
which exceptions: were taken; but it is unnecessary to
W.
review them as they depended on the op.tion that Boss rxun0TT
was interested in the bills for whicli the action -was & LnB.
brought.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause sent back
for a new trial.

TERRETIT AD OTnnRs v TAYLOR Awp OTEMRS.

1815.
Feb.

Xbsent....onsoN,

. and ToDD,

17th.

.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the. idistrict of The regliim,
Columbia, sitting in the county of Alexandria.
eUtnbment
of EiWr~
Taylor and others, " members of the vestry of the by the co~ony

"cProtstantEpiscbpal
church, commonly
called the Epis--hof ter
Viier n,
u itht..c o a
r
t.

"'copal church of Alexandria in tjie parish of Fairfax' ti
66in the county of Alexandria and district of Columbia, la',tio tkt'
", on behalf of themselves and others, members of the 'itt r
"c said church, and of the congregation belonging. to the pimbe
11
to 9
"csaid church," filed their bill in chancery against .Ter-0.- s
rett and others, who were overseers of the poor-for the 'rite rechoW!
county of Fairfax, in the state of Virginia, and aptinst or the churm,
George D.-neale and John Muneaster, wardens -of the I') .
t
said church, and against-James Wren.
le .mva
irsntts
notre-

=Iocbe.

The bill charges that on the 27th of May, 1770, thO Thartetit.
vestry of the' said parish and church, to whom the Cokn- g of 1776,
plainants, together with the Def-'ndants, George De. the eurh ifs
iteale and John Muncaster, are the legal and regular z ihts to L-d,
i i
successors in the said vestry, purchased of' a certain
Daniel Jinnings a tract of land then situate in the coun- the €eotu.
...... Mlvr,
ty of Fairfax and state of Virginia, • but. now. in the i-Also
county of Alexandria in thz district of Columbia, con- g; nor di
taming- 56 acres, which the said Jonnings and his wife, te ts of
C1. 89
by deed of bargain and sale on the 18th of September, 1784,
'n 1785, c
:1770, by, the.direction of the then vestry, conveyed to a 37, infti
certain Tonsend Dade, since deceased, and the saidl.,7 of thz
;rames Wrini both then of the county of Fairfaxp and ed to b-. c

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TnVRnTT
& OTHE RS

IV.

the church wardens of the said parish and church for

the time being, and to their successors in office, for the

use and benejit o' the said bhurth in the said parish.

T.rYLOlt That in the year 1784, the legislature of Virginia
&OTHERS. passed an act, entitled "6an act for incorporating the
Pltotestant Episcopal church ;" by the third section of

cured
under
the constitu-

which, power is given to the ministers and vestry of the

ton, eiter 6i- Protestant Episcopbl church to demise, alien, improve
vil,
political,or
and lease
any lands belonging,
0a to the church.
That the
'
reiios
"rhigius
act of' 1786, entitled "an act to repeal the act for incoof
S'lietas
179R,
ch.9, porating the Protestant Episcopal church, and for other
und 1801, h. piurposes," declares that the ,act of 178,1 shall h repeal5, s atr as

they go t di- ed, but saves to all religious societies the property to
veit thEji-

th:em respectively belonging, and authorizes them to aptine to time, according to the rules of their
sect, trustees who shall .be capable of managing and ap-

l'theproperty pin, fr',,

acquirm
VI10,b

pre-

to1
the

p] ing such property to the religious use of such socieThat under'this last law the Complainants con-

revolutio"orby
purchase
yties.

ceive they
.
..have the power of requiring the church waral andinoper. dens of their church, who are the trustees appointed by
tive.
tl, vestry, under the direction of the vestry comtemilaTheact of
ted by the last mentioned act, to sell or otherwise dis1708, ch 9,
inereth ipeals pose of the said land, and to apply the proceeds of th
donation,
are
unconsfitution-

the
statutes
psd
r-

same.
eo to
g nthe reiigious use of the society or congregation

bel.iing to the said church, in such manner as the
vestry for the time being shall direct. That the Corn
p unants have becn, according to the rules and regulaopeatio all tions of the said soci,'ty, appointed, by the congregation,
thrviousl.itvest rymen and trustees of the said church, and have apacted, bou. pointed the Defendants, Dencale and Muncaster, church
as t1cy ar
wardens of the said church. That some of the present
naot Iflc"msstl.tt ith the congi egation of the cliirch were originally members of
peeliig the

'hurIf
sine
the revolution.
and left irill

pe:nett con-

the church whien the chutt'h was built and when the land

was purchased, and contributed to the purchase thereof,
state of Virginia, but have iiews in the church, and con.
lauds ciwo tribute to the support of the minister. That the lainds
lands cai,,t are wasting
Church-ward-

ens are ,!ot a That some of them reside in the county of Fairfax and
C~ra.....

be sold withon,
the innt onsent ofthe
pa;,son
(it

by tresspasses, &c.

That the Complai-

nants, as well as the congregation, wish to sell the lands
and apply the proceeds to the use of th' church ; but
there hieone) art. oppi-sed in iheir wishes by .thse Defendaits, "Ilerrvtt
and thevestry and others,.who are overseers of the pool for the couinty of Fairfax, and who claim the land undeir the act ot
Virginia of the 2th of Jpjiuaryi,802, autitorizing fhli

FEBRUARY TERMh 181.
sale of certain glebe lands in Virginia; which act was Tnnvmi
niot passed until after the district of- Columbia. was t e- & oTIznr
v.
parated from the state .of Virginia: in consequence of
-vhicli claim they are unable to sell the lands, &c. TAYLoR
wvherefor they pray that the Defendants, Terrett and &o=rns.
others, the overseers of the poor. may be perpetu lly
enjoined from claiming the land, that their title may be
quieted. and that the Defendants, Deneale, luncaster
and Wren, may be decreed to sell and convey the
land, &c,.
The bill was regularly taken for confessed against all
the Defendants. The Court below ddcreed a sale, &c.
according to the prayer of the bill.
The Defendants, Terrett and others, the overseers of
ihe poor, sued out their writ of error.
The cause was argued at last term by o-ns, for the
Plaintiffs in-error, and by E. 1. LEE and SwAih-, for
the Defendants in error.
. The opinion of the Court is so full that it is deemed
unnecessary to report the arguments of counsel.
Februanj17th. Xbsent...JomisoN, J. and Tom, J.
STORY,

. delivered the opinion of the Court m

rollovs:
The Defendants not having answered to the bill in
the Court below, it has been taken pro confsso, and the
cause is-therefore to be decided upon thetitle and equi.
ty apparent on the face of tfie bill.
If the Plaintiffs have shown a sufficient title to the
trust property in the present bill, we have no difficulty
in holding that they are entitled to the equitable relief
prayed for. It will be but the case of the cestuis qua
trust enforcing againdt their trustees the rights,of own-.
ership under circumstances in which the objects of the
truft would be otherwise defeated. And in our judgment it would make no diffei'nce whether the Episcopal church-were a voluntary society, or. clothed with
corporate powers ; for in.equity, as to objects 'which the

SUPREME COURT U. Si
TERRETT

laws cannot but recognize as useful and meritoriou%

& OTHERS the same reason would exist foi relief in the one case

T.

9s in the other.

Other considerations arising in tibs
which relief must bo founded, render an enquiry into the character and powers of
the Episcopal church, indispensable.

TAAYlOR case, material to the title oh
&OTHERS.

At a-very early period the religious establishment of

England seems to have been adopted in the colony of

Virginia5 antl, of coui'se, the common law upon that
subject, so far as it was applicable to the circumstances
,of that coloby. The local division into par.shes for ecclesiastical purposes can be very early traced; and the
subsequent laws enacted for religiou. purposes evidently pre-suppose the existence of the Episcopal church
with its general rights amd authorities growing qut of
the common law. What those rights and authorities
are, need not be minutely stated. It is sufficient that,
among other things, the church was capable of receiving endowments of land, and that the minister of the
parish was..during his incumbency, seized of the freebold of its inheritable property, as emphatically persona
ecclcsit, and capable, as a sole corporation, of transmitting that inheritanc6 to his' successors. Tile church
wardens, also, were a corporate body clothed with auth6rity and guardianship over the repairs of the church,
.and its personal property ; and the other temporal concerns of tlhii parish were submitted to a vestry composed
of persons selected for that purpose. In order more effectually to cherish and support religious institutions,
and to define the authoritirs and rights of the Episcopal officers, the le'gislature, friom time to time, enacted
laws ofi this rubject. By the' statutes of 1661, ch. 1, 2,
s, 10, and 1667, ch. s, provision was madd for tho erec-,
tion and repairs of churches and chapels of ease; for
the laying out of glebes aid church lands, and the building of a dwelling house for the minister; for the making of assessments and taxes for these and other pa.
3Schiil pu poses- for the appointment of church wardens to keep the church in repair, and to provide books,
ornamentS, &c.; and, lwqtly, for the election of a vestry
of twelve persons by the parishioners, whose duty it
was, by these and subsequent statutes, amb'ng other
things, to-make and proportion levies and asso~gment.s
and to purchise glebed and erect dwelling houses for

FEBRUARY TERM 18i5.
the ministers in each respective parish. See statute TEuuRTn
1696, ct. il-727, ch. 6--a1d M78, ch. 28-2, Tuct.- & OTIIMUS

cr's Blackst. Com. .qppx. note ..

IV.
TATLOU

By the operation of these statutes and the commonlaw, &oTrmns.
the lands thus purchased became vested, either directly -or beneficially, in the Episcopal church. 'The minister
for the time being was seized of the freehold, in law or
in equity, jure ecclesice, and, during- a vacancy, tle fee
-remainedin abeyance, and the profits of the parsonage
were to be taken by the parish for their own use. Co.
Lit. 30, b. 311, 342, b. 2, .Mass. . 500.
Such were some of the rights and powers of the Epis.
copal church at the time of the American revolution;
and under the authority thereof the purchase of the
lands stated in the bill b'effire the Court, was undoubtedly made. And the property so acquiied by the
church remained unimpaired, notwithstanding the revolution; for the statute of 1776, ch. 2, completely confirmed and establisited the rights of the church to all its
lands and other property.
The stat. 1781, ch. 88, proceeded yet further. it eypressly made the minister and vestry, and, in case of a
vacancy, the vestry of each parish, respectively, and
their successors forever, a corporation by the name of
the Protestant Episcopal bhurch in the parish where
they respectively resided, to have, hold, use and enjoy
all the glebes, churches and chapels, burying-grounds,
books, plate and ornaments approprilted to the us6 of,
and every other thing the property of the late Episcopal church, to the sole use and benefit of the corporation. The same statute also provided for the choice of
new vestries, and repealed all former laws relatin. to
vestries and church wardeps, and to the suppbrt of the
clergy, &c.and dissolved all former vestries; and gave
the: corporation extensive powers as to the purchasing,
holding, aliening, repairing and regulating the church
property.' This statule was repealed by the statute of
1786, cit. 12, with a proviso saving to all religious societies the property to them respectively belonging, and
authorizing them to appoint, from time to time, accord-'
iug-to the rules of their sect, trustees who bhould be
capable of managing and applying such property to the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
religious use of such societies; and the statute of 788i,
& OTHERS ch. 47, declared that the trustees appointed in the sevo.
v.
ral parishes to take care of and manage the property of
TAYLOR the Protestant Episcopal church, and their successors,
&OTHIERS. should, to all intents and purposes, be considered as the
successors to the former vestries, with the same powers
of holding and managing all the property formerly vested in them. All these statutes, from that of 1776, cl. 2d
to that of 1788, chf. 47, and several others, were repealed by the statute of 1798, cl. 9, as inconsistent with the
principles of the constitution and of religious freedom ;
and by the statute of. 1801, ch. 6, (which was pasged
after the district of Columbia was finally separated from
the states of Maryland and Virginia) the legislature
asserted their right to all the property of the Episcopal
churches in the respective parishes of the state; and,
among other things, directed and authorized the overseers of the poor, and their successors in each parish
wherpin any glebe land was vacant or should become
so, to sell the same and appropriate the proceeds to the
use of the poor of the parish,
TERUVTT

It is under this last statute that the bill charges the
Defendants (wh are overseers of the poor of the parish
of Fairfax) with claiming a title to dispose of the land
in controversy.
This summary view of so much of the Virginia statutes as bears directly on the subject in controversyq
presents ot only a most extraordinary diversity of opthion in the legislature as to the nature and "propriety o.
aid in the temporal concerns of teligion, but the more
embartfssing considerations of' the constitutional character and efficacy of those laws touching the rights and
property~of the Episcopal church.
It is conceded bn all sides that,, at the revolution, th
Episcopal church no longek' retained its character as an
exclusive religious establishment. And there can- be no,
doubt that it was competent to the people and to the
legislature to deprive it of, its superiority over other religious sects, and to withhold from it any support by
publictdxation. But, although it may be true. that ",religion can be directed only. by reason and conviction,
not by force or violence,"t and that 'all nlen are equal-

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
ly etitledto the free exercise of religion according to TEUnrETT
the dictates-of-conscience," as the bill of rights of Vir- & OTHER5
V0.
ginia declares, yet it is difficult to perceive how it ioilows as a con.sequence that the legislature may not en- TAYmo
act laws more effectually to enable all serts to accom- &oTLERS.

plish the great objects of religion by giving them cortorate rights for the management of their property, and
the regulation of their temporal as.well as spiritual concerns. Consistent with the constitutii.n of Virginia the
legislature could not create or continue a religious establishment which sliduld have exclusive rights and prerogatives, or compel the citizens to uorship under a
stipulated form or discipline, or to pay taxes to. those
whose creed they could not conscientiously believe. But
the free exercise of religion cannot be justly deemed to
be restrained by aiding with equal attention the votaries of every sect to perform-their own religious duties,
or by establishing funds for tha support of ministers,
for public charities, for the endowment of churihes, or
for the sepulture of the dead. And that these purposes
could be better secured and cherished by corporate pdw'
ers, cannot be doubted by any person who has attended
to the difficulties which surround all voluntary assoCiations. While, therefore, the legislature might exempt
the citizens from a compulsive attendance and payment
of taxes in su'pport of any particular sect, it is not per*ceived that'either public or canstitutional principles required the abolition of all religious corporations.
Be, however, the general authority of the legislatoLr
as to the subject of religion, as it xanty, it'will requird
other arguments to establish the position that, at the
revolution, all the public property acquired by thd Episcopal churches, under the sanctioo of the Iawsv,became
the property of tie state; Had the property thus'acqured been originally granted by the state or the king,.,
there might have been some color (and it would have,
been but a color) for such-an extraordinary reten.%ion.
But the property was, in fact and in law, generally
purchased by the parishioners, or acquired by tJe benefactions of piotis donors. The title thereto was indefeasibly vested in the churches, or rather in their legal
kgents. It was not in the power of the £rown to seize
or assurme it 5 nor of the parliament itself to destroy
tw grants, unless by the exercise of a power the most
VOL. 1X.

7

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TERRI;TT

arbitraryi oporessive and unjust, and endured only be-

& OTIABUS cause it coubi not be resisted. It was not forfeited; for
-v.
the churches had committed no offince. The dissoluti n
TAYLOR of the regal government no'more destroyed the right to
&OTHERS. possess or enjoy this property than it did the right of
any other corporation or individual to his or its own
Property. The dissolution of the form of government
ird not involve in it a dissolution of civil rights, or an
abolition of the common law under which the inlheritances of every man in the state' were held. The state
itself succeeded only to the .rights of the crown ; and,
we may add, with many a flower of prerogative struck
from its hands. It has been assi.rted as a principle of
the common law that the division of an empire create5
no forcitutre of previ ,usly vested rights of prirporty.
B ,elly
v. -farrison,2 John. C. 29. JAckon -v.Lunn, 5
.John.c.i
109, CG'tvin's case, 7, co. 27. And this principle is equIly e. tisonant with the common sense of
mankind and the ni-xims of et-rnal jnItice. Nor are
ve able t,,
perclve any sound reason why the church
laids escle~itid or devlved upon the state by the revolution any mire than 'the pr,'pqrty of any other corporation €i,'ted by the ro. al hounty or established by the
legklature. The revo'ution might justly take away the
public patromage, the exclusive cure of souls, and the
compulsive taxation for the support of the church. Beyond thes! we are not preparedl to admit the justice or
the authority of the exercise of legislation.
It is not, however, necessary to rest this cause upon
the glneral do;trines already asserted ; for, admitting
that, by the reiolution, the church lands devolved on the
State, the statute of 1776, ch. 2, operated as a new grant
and confirmation thereof to the use of the churcho
if the. legislatlre possessed the authority to-make such
a grant and confirmation, it is very clear to our, minds
that it vested an indefeasible and irrevocable title. We
have-no knowlidge of any authority or principle which
could support the doctrine that a legislative grant is revocable-in its own nature, and held only durante bene placito, Such a doctrine would uproot the very foundationg
of almost al*1the land titles in Virginii, and is utterly inconsistent with a great and fundarmeital principle of'a

FEBRUARY TERM igi5.
,republican goyernment, the right of the citizens to the TEcnn.TT
free ejoymentof their property iegallv acquired.
& OTHIUS
It is asserted by tie legislature of Virginia, in 179S TAYLOR
and is0l, that this statute was incoisistent %N
ith tlt-bill &oTtiitS.
of rights and constitution of that state, and therefore
void. Whatever weight such a declaration might properly have as the opiniom of wise and lcai ned men, as a
declaration of what the law has been or is, it can hve no
decisive authority. It is, howt-ver, encountered by the
opinion successively given by former legislatures from
the earliest ixistence of the constitution itself, whiich
were composed of men of the very first rank for talents
and learning. And this opinion, too, is not only a Cotemporaneous exposition of the rctistitution. but has the
additional w:ight that it was promulgated or acquisced
in by a great majority, iff
not the whole, ni the very'fraraers of the constitution. Without adverting. however,
to the opinions on the one side or the other, for the reasons which have been already stated, and others which
we forbear to press, as they would lead to too prolix and
elementary an examination, we are of opinion that
the statute of 1776, ch. 2, is not inconsistent with the constitution or bill of rights of Virginia. We are prepared
to go yet farther, and hold that the staiutes of MY, h.
88, and 1785, ch. 37, were no infringment of any rights
secured or intended to be secured under the constitution,
,effher civil, political, or religious.
How far thie statute of 1786; oh.12, repealing the statute of,1784 ,zh. 88,incorporating the Episcopal churches,
and the subseqeent statutes in furtherance thereof of
1788, chi. 7, and ch. b3, were consistent with the principles of civil right or the constitution of Virginia, is a subject of muck delicacy, and perhaps not without dimculty.
Itis observable, however, that they reserve to the churches
all their corporate property, and authorize the appointment of trustees to manage thesame. A prirate corp'ration created by th legislature may loose its fh an'hises
by a misuser or a nonuser of theni ; and they may be resumed by the goveifnment utider a judicial judgment
upon a quo warranto to ascertain and enforce the forfeiture.-This is the common law of the land, and is a tacit
condition annexed to the creation of every such corpration. Upoki a change of government, too, it may be ad-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T.URtT
& OTHERS

mitted that such exclusive privileges attached to a private
corporation as 4r inconsistent wi l the new government

may be abolished.' In respect, also, to public corporations which exist only for public purpos"s, such as
&OTIERS. counties, towns, citing, &c. the legislature may, under
proper limitations, have a right to change, modify, enlarge or restrain them, securing however, the property
for the uses ilf those for whom and at whose expense it
was originally purchased. But that the legislature can
repeal statutes creating private corporations, or confirm.
ing to them property already acquired under the faith of
previous laws, and by such repeal can vest the property
of*such corporations exclusively in the state, or disposc
of the same to.such purposes as they may please, without the consent or default of the corporator, Wo are not
prepared to admit; and we think ourselves standing upon the principles of natural justice, upon the fudamental laws of every free government, upon the spirit and
the letter of the constitution of the United States, and
upon the decisions of most respectable judi!ial tribunals,
in resisting such a doctrine. The statutes of 1798 ch. 99
and of 1801, cit. 5, are not, thereibre in our judgment,
operative so far as to divest th6 Episcopal church of the
propetty acquired, previous to the revolution, by pur•clie or by donation. In respect to the latter statute,
there is this fttacfjer objection, that it passed after the district of Columbia was taken under the exclusive jurisdiction of congress, and asto the corporations and pro.
pcrty within tnat district, the right of Virginia to legis.
late no longer existed. And as .to the statute of 1798s
ch. 9, admitting it to have the fullest operation, it mere1) repeal the statutes passed respecting the church sincq
the revolution , and, of course, it left in full force all the
statutes previously enacted so far as they were not. inconsistent with the present constitution. It left, therefore, the important provisions of the statutes of11661,
1696, 1727, and 1748, so far as respected the title to the
church laiids, in perfect vigor, with go much of the comInon law as attached upon these rights.
11.

TAYLOR

Let us now advert to the title set up by tho Plaintiffs
in tile present bill. . U ton mspecting the deed which is
made a part of the bill, and. bears date in.1770, the land
appears to havp.been cimveyed to the grantees as church
wardens of the parish of Fairfak and ti their successorm

FEBRUARY 'ER1

1815.

in that otficeforever. It is also averred in the bill that TERETT
the Plaintiffs, together with two of the Detrindants ( ho & OTHERS
1v.
are church wardens) are the vestry of tie. Protestant
Episcopal Ch..rch, commonly called the Episcopal TAtL'on
church of Alexandria, in the parish of Fairfax, and that &OTHERS.
the purchase was made by th vestry of said parish and
.church, to hom th. present vestry are the legal and regular surcCosos in the said vestry; and that the purchase was made for the use and bent fit or thesaid church
in the said parish. No statute of Virginia has been cited
which creates church wardens acorpoiation for the pur,
pose of holding lands ; and at common law their capacity wag limited to p rsoal estate. I B. C. 39.1-Bro. Corp.
77. 81.-I Itelic .br. 393. 4r. 10.-Com. Dig. fit. Esliseg
. 3.-i2 H. 7, %7. b._I 3 H. 7, 9, b.-37 H. 6, 30.-.j Bue's Ecelk. Law, 290.-Gibe. 215.
It would seem, therefore, that the present deed did
mot operate by way of graut to cnvey a fee to the church
wardens and their succyssors ; for their successors, as
such, could not take; nor to the chu:'ch wardens in their
natural Nipacity ; for ,.heirs" is not in the deed. But
the covenant of general w2rranty in the deed binding
the gi-antors and their heirs forever, and warranting the
land to the church wardens and their succe.ssors forever
may well operate by way of estoppel to confirm to the
church and its privies the perpetual and'beneficial estate
in the land.
One difficulty presented on the face of the bill was,
that the Protestant Episcopal church of Alexandria was
not directly averred to be the same corporate or unincorporate body as the church and parish of Fairfax, or
the. legal successors thereto, so as to entitle them to the
lands in controversy. But upon an accurate examination of the bill, it appears that the purchase was mad
by the vestry " of the said parish and church," "for the
use and benefdt of the said church in the said parish." It
must, therefore, be taken as true that there was no other
Episcopal church in the parish ; and that the .propert
belonged to the church of Alexandria, which in this res:
.peet, represented the whole parish. And there can be
no doubt that the Episcopal members or the parish of
Fairfax have still, notwithstanding a separation from
the state of Virginia) the same rights and privileges as

_511

SUPREME COURT U. S:

they originally poss.'ssed in relation to that church,
& OTHERS while it was the parish church of Fairfax.
TERRETT

TATLOR
&OTHERS.
.-

The.nextconsideration is whether the Plaintiffs, who
are vestr -meii, have, as such, a right to requirt, the lands
of the church to be sold in the manner prayed ifor in the
bill. Upon the supp,sition that no statutes passed since
the revolution are in force, they may be deemvd to act
under the previous statutes and the common law. By
those statutes the vestry were to be appointed by the
parishoners , for the making and proportioning levies
and assessments, for builling and repairing the churches
and chapels, provision. for the poor, maintenance of
th&minister, and stch other niressary purposes, and for
the more orderly managing all parochial affairs ;" out
of which vestry the ministep and vestry were yearly to
choose two church wardens.
As incident to their office as general guardians of tho
church, we think they must be deemed entitled to assert
the rights and interests of the church. iut the minister,
also having the freehold, either in law or in equity, during
his incumbency, in the lands of the church, is entitled to
assert his own rights as personaecclesive. No aliienation,
therefore of the church lands can be made either by himself or by the parishioners or their authorized agents,
without the mutual'consent of both. And therefore we
should be of opinion that, upon principle, no sale ought
to be absolutely decreed, unless with the consent of the
parson, if tile church be full.
If tlio statute of 7l%, ch. 88, b6 in f6rce for any pur.
pose whatsoever, it seems to us that it would lead to a
like conclusion. If the repealing statute of 1786, ch. 12
or the statute of 1788, ch. 17, by which the church
property was authorized to lie vested in trustees chos en.by the churnh, and their successors, he in force for
any purpose whiats.over, then the allegation of the bill,
that the Plaintiffs 16 haPco according to the rules and regitfations of their said society, been appointed by the congregation vestry-men and trustees of the said church,"
would directly apply, and authorize the Plaintiffs to institute the present bill. Still, however, it appeaid to us
that in case of a plenarty of te cliuich, no alienatioi or
sale of the church lands ought to take place without the

FEBRUARY TERIMT isig,
.assent of the minister, unless such assent be expressly TErnnsr
& OTHERS
Aispensed with by sbme statute.
"re

On the whole the majority of the Court are of opinion TAYLOR
that the land in conitroversy belongs to the Episcipal &0TIIERS
church of Alexandria, and has not been divested by the
revolution, or any act of the legislature passed since that
period; that the Plaintiffs ax'e of ability to maintain the
present bill ; that the oveiseers of thte poor of the parish
of Fairfax have no just, legal, or equitable title to the
said land, and ought to be perpetually enjoined front
claiming the same; and thht asalQ of the said land ought,
for the reasons stated in the bill, to be, decreed upon the
assent of the minister of said church (if any there be)
being given thereto; and that the present church wardens and the said aames Wren ought to be decreed to
convey the same to the purchaser; and the proceeds to
be applied in the manner prayed for in the bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court is to be reformed so
as to conform to this opinion.

THE BRIG SHORT STAPLE AND CARGO,

(caltawayand others, Claimants,)

i81.
Feb.

1U31

THE UNITED STATES.

Absent....Jnx'so , J. 5 TODD, .
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Circuit Court, for the district or Masqachusetts, which af- Q ,re;

t

firmed that of the district Court condemning the brig th ti,uIL-,
Short Staple and cargo.

embrgm ha"
1803,a

The facts of the case. are thus itat-d by the (hieftwr~l
°
wrhith 1t=1
Justice in delivering the opinion of the Court.
deatrntef.u,
r
f hd.i .
This vessel was libelled in the district Court of Mnas-',
sachusetts, in March, 189, for hawfvi violated the cma- blc toe, de .

