FEBRUARY TERM 1816
sale of land owvned by a non-resident, made by the col- rA~nirz
let.tor for the nrn-payment of taxes must depend not
V.
only on his having made the publications required in ntULE's
the 13th section, but on his having made those also i.ussrr.
which are required in the lith section. Those publications not having been made in this case, it is the opinion of the majorit) of this Court that tue sale is void,
and that the judge of the District Court committed no
error in givin. this instruction to the jury. The judgment is affirmed with costs.

1805.

BRIG STRUGGLE
(Thomas LeighT, Claimant..)

THE UNITED STATES.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court for A
who
Ofersan
ey
the.district of Massachusetts,
• . which
- . condemned the brig•at%for",'"I
Shuggle, fiur violation of the ron-iutereourse act of 281h tit pe
of June. 1809, -col. 10, p. 13, by going, with a cargo, to i.'ta,,
ilust
nae out tile
a prohibited port.
KsM r nn.
1Peoruary t8th.

.qbsent....JonsoN,

. and ToDD, .

der h ch hm
vS W'Fjlv't
f rlto as to
Icare no tm.

doubt
LIvING TON, J. delivered the opinion of the Court as t,.
Cf 11b e
into.CC.
follows:
..

...

Ciretimmnc"
! wrdm

This was an information, in the District Court of".,P, ~assachus,.tts, agaist the brigantine Struggle fir the tireteiiimsn
violation of the act of Congress of tle 28th of .Tune, 1809,
in departing from Portsmouth, in the United States. vith
a cargo of domestic growth and manufacture, bound to
a foreign port with which commercial intercourse was

not then permitted.
The lihel further states that lhie vessel arrived at said
prohibited port, with her cargo, and that no bond had at
any time been giveu to the United States, in the manner
required by law., that she should not proeed to any'in.

2
,-RIG

SUPREME COURT U. S.

terdicted.port, nor bo enigaged directly or indirectly, dur,

ST.UGGLZ ing ScH

voyage, in any trade with such port or plice.

V.

1.STATES.

The claim denies the'depaiture of'the brigantine from
Portsmnouth on a foreign" voyage, to a -port with which
commercial intercourse was interdicted,, or to any other
foreign port or place.; but'insists that she was duly
cleared, at th6 custoip house at Portsmouth, for Charleston, and that she departed and was sailing towards her
place of drslination, when by the violence of the winds
and waves she was drivcn out of her course, and becanta
so much damaged that shiq could not proceed on to
Charlegton; hut that it was necessaiy for the preservation of the vessel and cargo, and of theo lives of fhose on
board, to sail for t.:"
West Indies ; t hat she accordingly
went to Martinico, and thereto proceeded to St. Bartholomlews.
The cause being at issue oh this alle.dttion of the Claiihant, and a number of witnesses hlaving be n examined,
the District Court condemned-the vessel as forfieited to
the United States. This decree was affirmied by the
Circuit Court, from whosgsentrrice this appeal is -taken.
The master of the Struggle, who was -produced as a
witness,'swears that after being regularly cleared, sble
sailed filom Portsmouth" to Charleston, th'e cargo being
consigned to Joseph Waldron & Co. on whom he had
oi'ders to call for advice ; but itbeing runoured, at thQ
titheof his sailing, that the Iioniniercout so would shortly be rewoved," he was inforoled by. the owner that orders were given to .WaldroW & -Co. in that case, to send
the vessel to the West Indies, providld the prospects at
(3harleston shotld not be kqual to his expectation.. That
6 or 0 days after sailing they had a y'ery hieavy gale froa1
the south west which made such a trmendous 6da-tflia
it lecamo impossible to keep the vessel to. -That they
k t .ot less than 6000 leet
or seasoned sawrd lumber
on Ihedeck, besides loos" lumnhr, all or' wlticl, .in his
opinion, must iievitably have bran lost, ifthe vessel had
been kept head to. At one time an attempt was made to
heave hei to, and aftr" layinga li-w hours, the galo in.
crieased.rand knockej'the vessel down, bnr'.yards' being
nearly in the water, and the top ofthe deck loall, so shifted that they were oblged to put her before th wind to

FEBRUARY TERI 1815.
1Aight the deck load and clear the'companion way. Dur- inno
Ing several gales they were obliged to scud, and at one STRUGGLE
time for 23 hours together. Tley shipped several seas'
v.
which washed overboard a part of the loose lumber. u.STATuS.
About the 16th of February, the wind being less violt nt,
the deck load was faound so much soaked that it was like
green lumber, which made the vessel so crank that they
could not keep on the *ind with a six knot breeze. One
of the water casks was entirel leaked out; another partly out; aid the sails and rigging much injured. Ou a
consulhation with the people on board, they were all of
opinion that it *vould be extremely dangerous to attetppt"
coming on the coastin the state in which the vessel then
was, she being so top heavy as to be 'almost water logged. It being also the worst season in the year, they
unanimously thought that the.only way they .could sav
the deck load, and probably theit lives, would be to make
the first port they could. 'They accordingly bore avay
for the West Indies, and arrived at Martinico, which
was the first port they made. The cargo was there sold
at a low price, it not being thought safe to venture to sea
again, in the then condition of the vessel. After making
some repairs they sailed from Martinico for St. Bartlolomews, where they took-freight for Boston at which
placethey arrived in June, 8O.
This is the history of the voyage qiven-by th master.
and is substantially confirmed by the mate and tVo om
the seamen, who also swear that they shipped for wages
usual on a voyage to Charleston, which were lower than
those which were given for a voyage to the West Indies,
It also :ippears by the documentary evidence in the case;
that the Struggle had a regular clearance on board for
Charleston; that she was chartered, by the ClaimAnt,
of certAin merchants of Portsmouth "sto go to some.
southern port or to the West Indies ;" that the cargo
taken on board at Portsmouth was lumber, butter, and
crackers; and that she returned from St. Bartholomews,
to the United State., with a cargo on freight consisting
of 180 casks and 9 barrels of molasses.

.On these proofs the Court is now to decide whether
the Claimant has made out his alleg-ation that the vessel
was driven out'of her course by th violence of the winds
and waves, and.that her- condition was such as to umahe
VOL. I.
0

SUPREME COVRT V. S.
=iriG

it necessary, for her preservation and the safety of th
for a port in the West Indies.

5TRUGG'LE crew, to sail
T).
V.ST4'rES.
-

-

Were the Court bound to decide according to postfivo
testimony, without regard to other 6ircumstances, ortv
the sittuation aail character of the witneqss, it might be
difficult to say that the pleaofrnecessity had not been satisfactorily made out. The master, mate, and two of the mariners establish every thing %hich tile Claim.nt had undertaken to prove, so far as their positive declarationb
are entitled to credit. But when it is recollected how
many cascs or firtitious distress have been offered to the
Courts of the United States, as excuses for violations of
the restrictive' system, as it has been called, and that
those cases, whether rqal or ima.ginary, have generally
been supported by toe sanie species of testimony, it canno, bi- wondered at if this Court shall receivep with consid,'rable jealousy anti caution, evidence Whicl is so perpotually recurring, and which if compared, will be found
to present the sam'p uniform statement of facts, with very
f.-w sades of difference, all calculated to impress a be"icf that some overwhelming calamity, of which, in ordinary voyages, so little is heard, has produced a deiarture frmn the original legitimate destination of the vessel. When it is considered tor that the testimony, on
these occasions .comes from men, who, whatever their
characters may be in other respects, most be viewed as
accomplices in the offence, if any has been intentionally
committed, and are, to say the least, very much under
the iffliunce of those who have projected the voyage and
ar to-.be gainers by a violation of the law, it catnot bo
supposed (hat such testimony can be examined without
very considerable reserve and distrust.
Altholghoimere suspicion, not resting Uponi strong ci'.
cnmstances unexplained, sho'uld not be permitted to out.
weigh positive testimony in givin.- effiet to a penal sta
tute; yet it cannot be regardd as an oppressive rule to
require of a party.m ho has violated it to make out thi,
ris viajor under NA
hich Ihe shellers himself, so as to leave

no reasonable doubt of his innocence ; and if in the course
of §ich vomdicatiou 1,e si.ll pass in silence, or leav.e unexplained, ch cuilstances which militate strongly against
the .integrity of the transaction, he' cannoteomplain if the

Court shall lay hold of those circumstances as reasons

FEBRUARY TERM

Si5.

for adjudging him in delicto. What then are. tie ciitCum- XIIUG
stances in this case which it is diflicult to reconcile with STnUGG=n
the concurrent testimony of the Nitnt-sses who have been
V.

examined?

U.s TATTs

.1. If the Struggle' really encountered so much bad
weather and was obliged, to avoid shipwreck and to preserve the lives .o the crew, to abandon a: coasting for a
foreign voyage, it might be expected that, on her arrival
at Martinico, the ordinary process of survey woid have
been called for. Her situation would then have been ascertained by professional and ski.ful men. The not
taking a precaution so common in cases of distress and
so necessary for the master's exculpation if he acted
without'an understanding with his owner, while it
leaves us in great doubt as io the magnitiude of the injuries 'sustained, and the imminence of the d'inger to %%
hich
the vessel and crew ver4. thereby exposed, is but little
calculated to cxcite a belief of the great extent of either.
It is taken for granted that no such survey was had,
from the silence of all the witnesses upon the Subject,
and from the manifest interest which the Claimant had
in producing it, if it any degree supported'the testimony
or the defence _vhich he had set up.
2. A still more common document, and of which, notwithstanding, we hear nut aword, is a protest.. Perhaps
a case never occurs that A vessel is forced to abandon a
voyage without stating the reasons of such deviation in
the form of a protest at the first p rt at which she arrives.
Although, of itself, it would be no evidence, the mastermight have stated inJis testimony that he had made one
at Martinico. His'not having done so subjects him to
the just presumption of having neglected it altogetler,
and that his going thither was brought about by a necessity of his own contrivance, and not by the apt of God,
or adverse winds.

Again.-Although it is said that orders were sent by
the Claimant to the house of Waldron & Co'. hi Charleston. yet neither thes -orders, nor those to the captain,
both of vhich must he presumrd to be in writing, are
produced. Their suppression, (to say the least) is a circumstance of some suspicion. It may also be asked why,

SUPREME COURT U. 8;
if the danger was so pressing, and the vessel nearly on
her beam ends, was not-relik:f sought by throwing over
Iv.
the deck-load, or a part of it? The Court does not mean
U.STATF5. to say that it was the master's duty to sacrifice the cat'go rather than 'go to a foreign port; but from his not
disembarrassing himself of an incumbrance wvhich must
have been so in'ich in his way, it may well be doubted
whether tie situation of the brig were as perilous as is
now represented. or the lives of the crew exp9sed to the
dangers we now hear of.
BRIG
T'RUGGL

Fi'om the declarations of the Claimant as to his intentions previous to the voyage an argumcnt was drdawn in
his favor.
It is sufficient: to say. that such declarations are not
evidence, and if they were? mi ht, iii a case otherwise
mysLerinus, rather increast thl , lu suspicion. As little dependence is to bp placed on the fact, that for a foreign o 'vage, high .r wages would have been demanded
than for one to Charleston. Althoumh the original
agre; mnet with the mariners may have been, and probably was for Charleston, there can he no doiibt that the
owner wouhl have an interest, in a case of this kind, to
raise them full as high as seametn would'have a right to
expect, if the vessel were carried, -and especially without
a palpable necessity; to an interdicted foreign port.
Considering then, the suspicious source from which the
testimony is derived, and the ,infavorahle and unexplained circumstances which have been stated, the Court is
unanimously of opinion, thht the sentence of the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.

185.
Feb.

RANDOLPH v. DONALDSON.

16th.

.qbaseIZ....MARSALts

, Ch. J.

TODD,

J'.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the ilistriet of
to Virginia. in an action of debt, brought by Donaldson
tse sttRnl
Jrllotadrc,
agaiti8st Ranolhl~llate- marshal of that district, forr the
prneQs
under
.n ,to;
commtt~d
If

