OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Mrs. Louisa Hancock [the purchaser after the levy of the
attachment] having bought the land under these circumstances, took it subject to the plaintiff's [attachment] lien."
To the same effect is Paxton v Xeyer, 67 Texas, 96, 98. See
also County of Warren v Mfarcy, 97 U. S. 96, 105, Unon
'Trust Co. v Southern Havigaton Co., 130 U. S. 565, 570,
.Xurray/v.BRallou, 1 Johns. Ch. 566, 576.
For the reasons stated, we are of opimon that the title to
the land was in Schuler in virtue of his purchase at the sale
m the suit brought by him, and of the marshal's deed to him.
Judgment affirmed.

SMYTH v. N-EW ORLEANS CANAL AND BANKING
COMPANY
.A.PPEAL FROM THE

CIRIT

COURT OF THE UNRITED STATES FOP.

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 75. Submitted November 5,1891. -Decided November 23,1891.
The plaintiffin his bill set up in himself a legal title to real estate derived
from the State of Louisiana to which it had been listed as swamp or overflowed lands; averred that the respondents claimed the same land under
certain old French grants which had been recognized by the Land Office as
valid, and prayed that he might be declared to be the owner and put in possession of the premises, and have an accounting for rents and profits.
Held, that on these averments he had a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law, and that the bill must be dismissed.

THE court stated the case as follows
The controversy involved in this suit arose from conflicting
claims of the parties to lands in the suburbs of New Orleans,
alleged to be of great value. It seemed from the opinions of
the Secretaries of the Interior presented on the hearing, that
no regular survey by the Land Department of the government
was extended over the city and its suburbs prior to 1871. The
surveys previously made were only such as were required to
ascertain the boundaries .of old grants from the Spanish ar

SMYTH v. N. 0. CANAL & BA-NLKING CO.

65T

Statement of the Case.

French government. But in 1871 and 1872, under the direction of the Land Department, surveysw ere extended over the
city and adjoining country to Lake Ponchartrain, and township maps of the same were prepared and approved. One of
the townships described as township twelve south, range eleveni
cast, disclosed various lands which, being low and wet, fell.
under the designation of swamp or overflowed lands covered,
by the swamp-land grant to the State of. 1849, and they were
listed to the State. Within the township'there were extensive
improvements, consisting of railroads, gardens, race courses,
cemeteries and buildings of various kinds, such as are usually
found in the neighborhood of a large city
When it became known that the lands of the township were
held by the Land Department to belong to the State, and,
therefore, were open to sale, many parcels were entered bydifferent parties, the complainant in this case being one of
them.
It subsequently appeared that certain ancient grants covering the premises, alleged to have been made by the former
governments of Spain and France, were brought forward by
one of the defendants in this case, the New Orleans Canal andBanking Company, which claimed under them, for itself and,
its vendees, title to the lands. Proceedings were then. taken
to obtain a reconsideration of the action of the Land Depaxtment, a resurvey of the city and suburbs, and an annulment
of the listing of the lands in township 12, south, to the State,
as swamp and overflowed.
It would serve no useful purpose to detail at length the
various proceedings had under the direction of the Interior
Department exercising its supervisory authority over the
officers of the Land Department, to correct their alleged-erroneous action. They are stated at length in the opinions of
the Secretaries. It is sufficient to say that the genuineness,
and extent of the ancient grants were considered and established. The finding of the lands as vacant swamp and overflowed was set aside, and the listing of the same to the State
was cancelled.
The complainant thereupon filed his bill in the Circuit Court.
VOL. CxLI-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for appellant.

of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, by

which he seeks to have his alleged title adjudged to be valid,
and possession of the demanded premises decreed to him with
the rents and profits for their unlawful use and possession. In
the bill he detailed the various steps, taken through the instrumentality of the Land Department, to obtain title to the
premises. He set forth that by the Treaty of Paris of April
30, 1803, with the French Republic, the Whole province or
Territory of Louisiana, comprising the lands designated on
the official map of township 12 south, range 11 east, had been
ceded to the United States; that the lands had not been previously separated from the public domain, that since their
cession-the. United States had exercised ownership over them
and Congress had passed several acts respecting them and,
among others, the swamp land act of 1849, and that under
them the lands had been selected and listed, as swamp and
overflowed land, to the State, and he had become their purchaser. He also averred that he was the sole owner of 2295
acres of the lands by his purchase, of which he had received
patents for all but 800 acres, and for this balance he had been
prevented from receiving patents by the fraudulent conduct
of parties claiming under pretended ancient grants. After
reciting various proceedings before the Land Department and
in the District Court of the United States respecting the said
grants, the bill alleged that the Land Department had decided
that these ancient grants were complete French grants needing no confirmation, and obligatory upon it so far as to require
it to direct the public surveys to be closed on the lands covered by them. It charged that the various proceedings taken
by the department in that respect were invalid and unauthorized, and that from the invalidity and unauthorized character
of the proceedings the complainant's right to the lands was
not defeated nor impaired. It therefore prayed that the complainant might be declared the owner and put in possession of
the premises described, and have an accounting for the rents
and profits.
Mr J Ward Gurley, Jr., for appellant.

SMYTH v. N. 0. CANAL & BANKIING CO.

659

Argument for Appellant.

The facts charged in the bill fully justify maintaining the
suit on the/quity side of the court. Complainant has not an
-adequate Iemedy at law
Although complainant may have
a legal title, it is not a complete legal title to all the lands,
and he charges acts of fraud against one of the defendants
which have prevented and still prevent him from completing
his title to a portion of the lands, and which threaten to injure
his title to all the lands. This entitles him to the assistance
of a court of equity Boyce v Grundy, 3 Pet. 210, 215. The
multiplicity of suits which would be necessary at law -s sufficient to maintain the equity jurisdiction. Crews v Burckam,
1 Black, 352, 358. At law a separate suit against each defendant would be necessary
The fats set forth in the bill show that the Banking Company has for fourteen years been harassing complainant and
zasting clouds upon his title by claiming title under "pretended, false, fraudulent and invalid grants," and by a continued "fraudulent attempt to manufacture a title to said
lands," has prevented complainant from completing his legal
title to portions of said land, and from obtaimng the evidences
of said title from the officers of the Land Department, and
has caused the officers of that department to close the public
surveys upon the lines of said alleged grants, to cancel complainait's patents and to declare said alleged grants to be
complete French grants, needing no confirmation, m illegal
violation of complainant's rights.
To stop these acts, investigate these frauds, ascertain the
exact limits and location of the claim of each-defendant and
compel an accounting, only the equity powers of the court can
afford adequate and prompt relief, without a multiplicity of
suits and a great expense.
The case of liMpp v. Bazkn, 19 How 211, chiefly relied
upon in the opinion of the Circuit Court, differs widely from
the case at bar. In that case there was no array of acts of
fraud, no manufacturing of titles, no cancelling of patents, no
illegal and conflicting acts and decisions of the Land Department to be reviewed and reversed, no fraudulent acts by
defendants preventing complainant from completing his title,

OCTOBER TERMA,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

no boundaries of defendants' respective claims to be ascertained,
no multiplicity of suits to be avoided, as in the case at bar.
Read in connection with the cases hereinbefore cited, the case
of Hi2p v Babzn but strengthens the appeal to the equity
jurisdiction over the case at bar.
.Y' Henqy C. .illev for the New Orleans Canal and Banking Company, appellee. .fXr J L. Bradfoid for the same.
.r Gus. A. B 'eaux for the Metarie Cemetery Association,
appellee.
Mm. JUsTIdE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Notwithstanding the statement of the bill respecting the
alleged illegal and fraudulent use of the ancient grants produced, and the alleged illegal proceedings of the departwenti
the bill avers the possession by the complainant of a legal
title to the premises. Whether that title can be enforced
-against other claimants will depend of course upon the validity
of the ancient grants produced, and of the proceedings by
which- Louisiana; is alleged to -have acquired the property
That can be shown in an action at law as well as in a suit in
equity
If the State acquired a good title by the swamp land act of
1849, and the listing of the lands and patents to her, and she
sold the premises, as alleged, to the complainatit, he can
recover them in an action at law, and the rents and profits
accrued thereon since the defendants have been 'in possession,
and for that purpose there is no occasion for any proceeding
in equity The 16th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
which is carried into the Revised Statutes as sec. 723, declares
that suits in equity shall not be sustained in either of the courts
of the United States in any case where a plain, adequate and
complete remedy may be had at law The allegations as to
the illegality of the action of the Land Department, and the
fraudulent proceedings of the defendants in bringing forward
the pretended ancient grants, are entirely unnecessary to the

McLISH v. ROFF.
Syllabus.

maintenance of the action. The facts upon which a title te
the premises in controversy rests, or by which such title can
be defeated, can be readily shown in an action at law No
-discovery is necessary for the intervention of any equitable
jurisdiction, nor would there be any avoiding of a multiplicity
of suits by maintaining this proceeding in a court of equity
In a single action at law all the facts can be established and
all the questions necessary to determine the right to the
'property can be considered and disposed of. The allegation
of fraudulent proceedings respecting the acquisition of the
title does not convert an action at law into a. suit in equity
The title stated is merely legal, and as was said in the case of
-Hi"p v Bab?.n, 19 How 271, 2-77, where an ejectment suit in
equity was sought to be sustained. "The evidence to support
it appears from documents accessible to either party, and no
particular.circumstances are stated, showing the necessity of
the courts interfering, either for preventing suits or other
vexation, or for preventing an injustice, irremediable at law"
See also &cott v .Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 110.
The demurrer to. the bill was, therefore,, properly sustained
and the suit dismissed on the ground that the complainant
had an adequate remedy at law, such dismissal being without
prejudice to any subsequent action at law which the. complainant might be advised to bring.
Decee affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICe

BLATC FOFRD

took no part 'm the deoision of this

ease.

TfcLISH v. ROFF
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE INDIAN TERIORY.
NQ. 1158. Submitted October13, IS91.-Delded December 7, A91.

Under section 5 of the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat,_826,, to establish Circuit Courts of Appeal," etc., the appeal or writ of eior witch may
be taken" from the existing Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court,"

" in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue,' can be

