OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

In view of the principles laid down in the cases now referred
to, we have. no hesitation in saying that the Savannah River,
from its mouth to the highest point to which it is navigable,
is subject to the maritime law and the admiralty jurisdiction
of the UnitedStates. It follows, as a matter of course, that
Congress, having already, by the act of 1851, amended the
maritime law by giving the benefit of a limited liability to the
owners of all vessels navigating the oceans and great lakes of
the country, and withholding it from the owners of vessels
used in rivers or inland navigation, was perfectly competent
to abolish that restriction in 1886, and extend the same beneficent rule to the latter class also. We think that the act in
question, namely, the 4th section of. the act of 1886, is a constitutional and valid law
As regards the steamboat itself, and the business in which
she was engaged, in riew of the authorities already referred
to, there is not the slightest doubt that the case was one
within the admiralty jurisdiction. The steamboat was a regularly enrolled and licensed vessel of the United States, and
was engaged in maritime commerce on the Savannah River,
one of the navigable rivers of the United States.
T/e writ of.prohiitions densed.

PULL]MAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE -OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 1. Argued October 18, 1888. -Reargunent ordered November 5,1888. -Reargued
6,1890. -Decided May 25, 1891.

March

A statute of a State, imposing a tax on the capital stock of all corporations
engaged in the transportation of freight or passengers within the State,
under which a corporation of another State, engaged in running railroal
cars into, through and out of the State, and having at all times a large
number of such cars within the State, is taxed by taking as the basis of
assessment such proportion of its capital stock as the number of miles of

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. PENNS:YLVANIA.
Statement of the Case.
railroad over which its cars are run within thee State bears to the whole
number of miles in this and other States over which its cars are run, does
not, as applied to such a corporation, violate the clause of the Constitution of the United States granting to Congress the power to regulate
commerce among the several States.

THIS was an action brought by the State of Pennsylvania
against Pullman's Palace Car Company, a corporation of Illinois, in the Court of Common Pleas of the county of Dauphin
in the State of Pennsylvania, to recover the amount of a tax
settled by the auditor general and approved by the treasurer
of that State, for the years 1870 to 1880 inclusive, on the defendant's capital stock, taking as the basis of assessment such
proportion of its capital stock as the number of miles of railroad over which cars were run by the defendant in Pennsylvania bore to the whole number of miles in this and other
States over which its cars were run.
All these taxes were levied under successive statutes of
Pennsylvania, imposing-taxes on capital stock of corporations,
incorporated by the laws of Pennsylvania or of any other
State, and doing business in Pennsylvania, computed on a certain percentage of dividends made or declared. The taxes for
1870-1874 were levied under the statute of May 1, 1868, c. 69,
§ 5, which applied to corporations of every kind, with certain
exceptions not material to this case, and fixed the amount of
the tax at half a mill on every one per cent of dividend. Penn.
Laws, 1868, p. 109. The taxes for 1875-1877 were levied
under the statute of April 24, 1874, c. 31, § 4, which applied
to all corporations in any way engaged in the transportation
of freight or passengers, and fixed the tax at nine-tenths of a
mill on every one per cent of dividend. Penn. Laws, 1874, p.
70. The taxes for 1878-1880 were levied under the statutes
of March 20, 1877. c. 5, § 3, and of June 7, 1879, c. 122, § 4,
applicable to all corporations, except building associations,
banks, savings institutions and foreign insurance companies,
and fixing the tax at half a mill on each one per cent of dividend of six per cent or more on the par value of the capital
stock, and, when the dividend was.less, at three mills on a valuation of the capital stock. Penn. .Laws, 1877, p. 8, 1879, p. 114.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

A trial by jury was waived, and the case submitted to the
decision of the court, which found the following facts "The
defendant is a corporation of the State of Illinois, having its
principal office m Chicago. Its business was, during all the
time for which tax is charged, to furnish sleeping coaches and
parlor and dining-room cars to the various railroad companies
with which it contracted on the following terms The defendant furnished the coaches and cars, and the railroad companies
attached and made them part of their trains, no charge being
made by either party against the other. The railroad companies collected the usual fare from passengers who travelled
in their coaches and cars, and the defendant collected a separate charge for the use of the seats, sleeping berths and other
conveniences. Business has been carried on continuously by
the defendant in this way in Pennsylvania since February 1',
1870, and it has had about one hundred coaches and cars
engaged in this way in the State during that time. The cars
used in this State have, during all the time for which tax is
charged, been running into, through and out of this State."
Upon these facts the court held "that the proportion of the
capital stock of the defendant invested and used in Pennsylvania is taxable under these acts, and that the amount of the
tax may be properly ascertained by taking as a basis the proportion which the number of miles operated by the defendant
in this State bears to the whole number of miles operated by.
it, without regard to the question where any particular car or
cars were used," and therefore gave judgment for the State.
That judgment was affirmed, upon writ of error, by the
Supreme Court of the State, for reasons stated in its opinion
as follows "We think it very clear that the-plaintiff in error
is engaged in carrying on such a business within this commonwealth, as to subject it to the statutes imposing taxation.
While the tax on the capital stock of a company is a tax on
its property and assets, yet the capital stock of a company and
its property and assets are not identical. The coaches of the
company are its property
They are operated within this
State. They are daily passing from one end bf the State to
the other. They are used in performing the functions for

PULLMAN'S OAR CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

which the corporation was created. The fact that they also
are operated in other States cannot wholly exempt them from
taxation here. It reduces the value of the property in this
State, justly subject to taxation here. This was recognized
in the court below, and we think the proportion was fixed
according to a just and equitable rule." 107 Penn. St. 156.
160.
Pullman's Palace Car Company sued out a writ of error
from this court, and filed six assignments of error, the substance of which was summed up in the brief of its counsel as
follows "The court erred in holding that any part of the
capital stock of the Pullman Company was subject to taxation
by the State of Pennsylvania by reason of its running any of
its cars into, out of, or through the State of Pennsylvania in
the course of their employment in the interstate transportation
of railway passengers."
XIr Edward S. Isham and Afr William Barry argued for
the plaintiff in error at the argument on the 18th of October,
1888.
.Mr Edward .Isham ahd Mr3 Toh '. Runnells argued
for the plaintiff in error at the argument on the 6th of MNarch,
1890.
Mr TV S. Eirkpatrzck, Attorney General of the State of
Pennsylvania, argued for the defendant in error at both arguments. .MrJohn F Sanderson, Deputy Attorney General of
that State, was with him on the brief in both cases.
MR.JusTIoE GRnAY, after stating the

case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Upon this writ of error, whether this tax was in accordance
with the law of Pennsylvania is a question on which the de-'
cision of the highest court of the State is conclusive. The' on y
question of which this court has jurisdiction is whether the
tax was in violation of the clause of the Constitution of the
United States granting to Congress the power to regulate

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

commerce among the several States. The plaintiff in error
contends that its cars could be taxed only in the State of Iiinois, in which it was incorporated and had its principal place
of business.
No general principles of law are better settled, or more
fundamental, than that the legislative power of every State
extends to all property within its borders, and that only so far
as the comity of that State allows can- such property be
affected by the law of any other State. The old rule, expressed in the maxim mobilia sequuntur ]ersonam, by which
personal property was regarded as subject to the law of the
owner's domicil, grew up in the Middle Ages, when movable
property consisted chiefly of gold and jewels, which could be
easily carried by the owner from place to place, or secreted in
spots known only to himself. In modern times, since the
great increase in amount and'variety of personal property, not
immediately connected with the person of the owner, that rule
has yielded more and more to the lex stus, the law of the
place where the property is kept and used. Green v 'an
Buskrk, 5 Wall. 307, and 7 Wall. 139, Hervey v Rhode
Island Locomotve Wors, 93 U. S. 664, Jarkness v. Russell,
118 U. S. 663, 679; ]Talworth v Hwrfris, 129 U S. 355, Story
on Conflict of Laws, § 550; Wharton on Conflict of Laws,
§§ 297-311. As observed by Mr. Justice Story, in his commentaries just cited, "although movables are for many purposes to be deemed to have no situs, except that of the domicil
of the owner, yet this being but a legal fiction, it yields, whenever it is necessary for the purpose of justice that the actual
situs of the thing should be examined. A nation within whose
territory any personal property is actually situate has an entire
dominion over it while therein, in point of sovereignty and
jurisdiction, as it has over immovable property situate there."
For the purposes of taxation, as has been repeatedly affirmed
by this court, personal property may be separated from its
owner, and he may be taxed, on its account, at the place where
it is, although not the place of his own domicil, and even if he
is not a citizen or a resident of the State which imposes the
tax. Lane County v Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 77, Railroad Co.

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Pennsylvana, 15 Wall. 300, 323, 324, 328, Railroad Ca.
v Penzston, 18 Wall. 5, 29, Tapan v. .erckants' Bank, 19
wall. 490, 499; State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 607,
608, Brown v Houston, 114 U S. 622, Coo v Errol, 116
U. S. 517, 524, _Marye v. Baltimore & 0hko Railroad, 127
U. S. 111, 123.
It is equally well settled that there is nothing in the Constitution or laws of the United States which prevents a State
from taxing personal property, employed in interstate or
foreign commerce, like other personal property within its
jurisdiction. .Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 232,
Telegraph Co. v Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 46, , Gloucester Ferry
Co. v Pennsylvanza, 114 U S. 196, 206, 211, Western Unwn
Telegraph Co. v Attorney General of _lfassachusetts, 125 U. S.
530, 549, .3 farye v Baltimore & 0kw Railroad, 127 U. S.
117, 124 Leloup v .Mobile, 127 U S. 640, 649.
Ships or vessels, indeed, engaged in interstate or foreign commerce upon the high seas, or other waters which are a common
highway, and having their home port, at which they are registered under the laws of the United States, at the domicil of
their owners in one State, are not subject to taxation in
another State at whose ports they incidentally and temporarily touch for the purpose of delivering or receiving passengers or freight. But that is because they are not, in any
proper sense, abiding within its limits, and have no continuous presence or actual situs within its jurisdiction, and, therefore, can be taxed only at their legal situs, their home port.
and the domicil of their owners. Hays v. PacXc XaiZ
Steamship Co., 17 How 596, St. louts v Ferry Co.. 11Wall.
423, .Aorgan v Parham, 16 Wall. 471, Wiggins Ferry Co.
v. EastSt. Louts, 107 U. 9. 365, GloucesterFerry Co. v Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196.
Between ships and vessels, having their situs fixed by act of
Congress, and their course over navigable waters, and touching land only incidentally and temporarily, and cars or
vehicles of any kind, having no situs so fixed, and traversing
the land only, the distinction is obvious. As has been said
by this court "Commerce on land between the different

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

States is so strikingly dissimilar,.in many respects, from commerce on water, -that it is often difficult to regard them in the
same aspect in reference to the respective constitutional
powers and duties of the State and Federal governments.
No doubt commerce by water was principally in the minds of
those who framed and adopted the Constitution, although
both its language and spirit embrace commerce by land as
well. Maritime tranisportation requires no artificial roadway.
Nature has prepared to hand that portion of the instrumentality employed. The navigable waters of the earth are recognized public highways of trade and intercourse. No franchise
is needed to enable the navigator to use them. Again, the
vehicles of commerce by water being instruments of intercommunication with other nations, the regulation of them is
assumed by the national legislature. So that state interference with transportation by water, and especially by sea, is at
,once clearly marked and distinctly discernible. But it is different with transportation by land." Railroad Co. v.. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456. _!70.
In Gloucester -Ferry Co. v Pennsylvansa, on which the
plaintiff in error much relies, the New ;Jersey corporation
taxed by the State of Pennsylvania, under one of the statutes
now in question, had no property in Pennsylvania except a
lease of a wharf at which its steambcats touched to land and
receive passengers and freight carried across the Delaware
River, and the difference in the facts of that case and of this,
and in the rules applicable, was clearly indicated in the opinion of the court as follows "It is true that the property of
corporations engaged in foreign or interstate commerce, as
well as the property of corporations engaged in other business, is subject to taxation, provided always it be within the
jurisdiction of the State." 114 U S. 206. "While it is conceded that the property in a State belonging to a foreign corporation engaged in foreign or interstate commerce may be
taxed equally with like property of a domestic corporation
engaged in that business, we are clear that a tav or other bur,den imposed on the property of either corporation because it
is used to carry on that commerce, or upon the transportation

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

of persons or property, or for the navigalion of the public
waters over which the transportation is made, is invalid and
void, as an interference with, and an obstruction of, the power
of Congress in the regulation of such commerce." 114U. S. 211.
Much reliance is also placed by the plaintiff in error upon
the cases in which this court has decided that citizens or corporations of one State cannot be taxed by another State for a
license or privilege to carry on interstate or foreign commerce
within its limits. But in each of those cases the tax was not
upon the property employed in the business, but upon the
right to carry on the business at all, and was therefore held to
impose a direct burden upon the commerce itself.
loran v.
NAew Orleans, 112 U. S. 69, 74, Pwkard v Pullman's Souther Car Co., III U. S.34, 43, Robb-ns v Shelby Taxeing .Dzstret, 120 U. S. 489, 497, Leloup v Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 644.
For the same reason, a tax upon the gross receipts derived
from the transportation of passengers and goods between one
State and other States or foreign nations has been held to be
invalid. Fargo v Xfichigan, 121 U. S. 230, Philadelphia&
Southern Steamsh?p Co. v Pennsylvania,122 U. S.326.
The tax now in question is not a license tax or a privilege
tax, it is not a tax on business or occupation, it is not a tax
on, or because of, the transportation, or the right of transit of
persons or property through the State to other States or coun-.
tries. The tax is imposed equally on corporations doing business within the State, whether domestic or foreign, and whether
engaged. in interstate commerce or not. The tax on the capital of the corporation, on account of its property withis the,
State, is, in substance and effect, a tax on that property.
Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennsylvania, 114 U S. 196, 209,
Western Unoon Telegraph Co. v. Attorney General of Afassa-.
chusetts, 125 U. S. 530, 552. This is not only admitted, but
insisted on, by the plaintiff in error.
The cars of this company within the State of Pennsylvania
are employed in interstate commerce, but their being so employed does not exempt them from taxation by the State, and
the State has not taxed them because of their being so employed, but because of their being within its territory and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction. The cars were continuously and permanently
employed in going to and fro upon certain routes of travel.
If they had never passed beyond the limits of Pennsylvania,
it could not be doubted that the State could tax thenm, like
other property, within its borders, notwithstanding they were
employed in interstate commerce. The fact that, instead of
stopping at the state boundary, they cross that boundary in
going out and coming back, cannot affect the power of the
State to levy a tax upon them. The State, having the right,
for the purposes of taxation, to tax any personal property
found within its jurisdiction, without regard to the place of the
owner's domicil, could tax the specific cars which at a given
moment were within its borders. The route over which the
cars travel extending beyond the limits of the State, particular
cars may not remain within the State, but the company has
at all times substantially the same number of cars within the
State, and continuously and constantly uses there a portion of
its property, and it is distinctly found, as matter of fact, that
the company continuously, throughout the periods for which
these taxes were levied, carried on business in Pennsylvania,
and had about one hundred cars within the State.
The mode which the State of Pennsylvania adopted, to ascertain the proportion of the company's property upon which
it should be taxed in that State, was by taking as a basis of
assessment such proportion of the capital stock of the company
as the number of miles over which it ran cars within the State
bore to the whole number of miles, in that and other States,
over which its cars were run. This was a just and equitable
method of assessment, and, if it were adopted by all the States
through which these cars ran, the company would be assessed
upon the whole value of its capital stock, and no more.
The validity of this mode of apportioning such a tax is sustained by several decisions of this court, in cases which came
up from the Circuit Courts of the United States, and in which,
therefore, the jurisdiction of this court extended to the determination of the whole case, and was not limited, as upon writs
of error to the state courts, to questions under the Constitution
and laws of the United States.

PULLMAK'S CAR CO. v. PENNSYLVATIA.
Opinion of the Court.

In the State Railroad Tax Cases;92 U S. 575, it was adjudged that a statute of Illinois, by which a tax on the entire
taxable property of a railroad corporation, including its rolling
stock, capital and franchise, was assessed by the state board
of equalization, and was collected in each municipality in proportion to the length of the road within it, was lawful,, and
not in conflict with the Constitution of the State, and Mr.
Justice Miller delivering judgment said
"Another objection to the system of taxation by the State
is, that the rolling stock, capital stock and franchise are personal property, and that this, with all other personai property,
has a local situs at the principal place of business of the corporation, and can be taxed by no other county, city or town, but
the one where it is so situated. This objection is based upon
the general rule of law that personal property, as to its situs,
follows the domicil of its owner. It may be doubted very
reasonably whether such a rule can be applied to a railroad
corporation as between the different localities embraced by its
line of road. But, after all, the rule is merely the law of the
State which recognizes it, and when it is called into operation
as to property located in one State, and owned by a resident
of another, it is a rule of comity in the former State rather
than an absolute principle in all cases. Green v Tan Buskzrk,
5 Wall. 312. Like all other laws of a State, it is, therefore,
subject to legislative repeal, modification or limitation, and
when the legislature of Illinois declared that it should not prevail in assessing personal property of railroad compameq for
taxation, it simply exercised an ordinary function of legislation." 9.2 U. S. 607, 608.
"It is further objected that the railroad track, capital stck
and franchise is not assessed in each county where it lies,
according to its value there, but according to an aggregate
value of the whole, on which each county, city and town
collects taxes according to the length of tfie track within its
limits." "It may well be doubted whether any better mode
of determining the value of that portion of the track within
any one county has been devised, than to ascertain 'the value
of the whole road, and apportion the value within the county

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

by its relative length to the whole." "This court has expressly
held in two cases, where the road of a corporation ran through
different Stakes, that a tax upon the income or franchise of
the road was properly apportioned by taking the whole income
or value of the franchise, and the length of the road within

each State, as the basis of taxation.

-DelawareRailroad Tax,

18 Wall. 206, Eie Railroad v. Pennsylvanza, 21 Wall. 492."
92 U. S.608, 611.
So in IFestern Unson Telegraph Co. v. Attorney General of
.lassachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, this court upheld the validity
of a tax imposed by the State of Massachusetts upon the capital stock of a telegraph company, on account of property
owned and, used by it within the State, taking as the basis of
assessment such proportion of the value of its capital stock as
the length of its lines within the State bore to their entire
length throughout the country
Even more in point is the case of Mfarye v Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad, 127 U. S. 117, in which the question was
whether a railroad company incorporated by the State of
Maryland, and no part of whose own railroad was within the
state of Virginia, was taxable under general laws of Virginia
upon rolling stock owned by the company, and employed
upon connecting railroads leased by it in that State, yet not
assigned permanently to those roads, but used interchangeably
upon them and upon roads in other States, as the company's
necessities required. It was held not to be so taxable, solely
because the tax laws of Virginia appeared upon their face to
be limited to railroad corporations of that State, and Mr.
Justice Matthews, delivering the unanimous judgment of the
court, said
"It is 4lot denied, as it cannot be, that the State of Virginia
has rightful power to levy and collect a tax upon such property used and found within its territorial limits, as this property was used and found, if and whenever it may choose, by
apt legislation, to exert its authority over the subject. It is
quite true, as the situs of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company is in the State of Maryland, that also, upon general
principles, is the situs of all its personal property, but for

PULL1ANI'S CAR CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Field, Harlan, JJ.

purposes of taxation, as well as for other purposes, that situs
may be fixed in whatever locality the property may be
brought and used by its owner by the law of the place where

it is found.

If the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company is

permitted by the State of Virginia to bring into its territory,
and there habitually to use and employ a portion of its movable personal property, and the railroad company chooses so to
do, it would certainly be competent and legitimate for the
State to impose upon such property, thus used and employed,
its fair share of the burdens of taxation imposed upon similar
property used-n the like way by its own citizens. And such
a tax might be properly. assessed and collected in cases like
the present, where the specific and individual items of property so used and employed were not continuously thesame,
but were constantly changing, according to the exigencies of
the business. In such cases, the tax might be fixed by an
appraisement and valuation of the average amount of the
property thus habitually used, and collected by distraint upon
any portion that might at any time be found. Of course, the
lawlessness of a tax upon vehicles of transportation used by
common carriers might have to be considered in particular
instances with reference to its operation as a regulation of
commerce among the States, but the mere fact that they
were employed as vehicles of transportation in the interchange of- interstate commerce would not render their taxation invalid." 127 U. S. 123, 124.
For these reasons, and upon these authorities, the.. vrt is
of opinion that the tax in question is constitutional auw valid.
The result of holding otherwise would be that, if all the Statbs
should concur in abandoning the legal fiction that personal
property has its situs at the owner's domicil, and in adopting
the system of taxing it at the place at which it is used and by
whose laws it is protected, property employed in any business
requiring continuous and constant movement from one State
to another would escape taxation altogether.
Judgment affirmed.

MR. SUSTICE BRADLEY, with whom concurred MR. JusTiCE
FIELD and MhiR. JUSTICE EARLAN, dissenting.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Field, .Harlan, JJ.

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case, and
will state briefly my reasons. I concede that all property,
personal as well as real, within a State, and belonging there,
may be taxed by the State. Of that there can be no doubt.
But where property does not belong in the State another
question arises. It is the question of the jurisdiction of the
State over the property It is stated in the opinion of the
court as a fundamental proposition on which the opinion really
turns that all personal as well as real property within a State
is subject to the laws thereof. I conceive that that proposition is not maintainable as a general and absolute proposition.
Amongst independent nations, it is true, persons and property
within the territory of a nation are subjoet to its laws, and it is
responsible to other nations for any injt tice it may do to the
persons or property of such other natio is. This is a rule of
international law But the States of this government are not,
independent nations. There is such a thing as a Constitution
of the United States, and there is such a thing as a government of the United States, and there are many things, and
many persons, and many articles of property that a State cannot lay the weight of its finger upon, because it would be contrary to the Constitution of the United States. Certainly,
property merely carried through a State cannot be taxed by
the -State. Such a tax would be a duty - which a State cannot
impose. If a drove of cattle is driven through Pennsylvania
from Illinois to New York, for the purpose of being sold inh
New York, whilst in Pennsylvania it may be subject to the
,police regulations of the State, but it is not subject to taxation
there. It is not generally subject to the laws of the State as
other -property is. So if a train of cars starts at Cincinnati
for New York and passes through Pennsylvania, it may be
subject to the police regulations of that State whilst within it,
but it would be repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States to tax it. We have decided this very question in the
Case,.of State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232. The point was
directly raised and decided that property on its passage
through a State in the course of interstate commerce cannot
be taxed by the State, because taxation is incidentally regula-

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. PENNSYLVA2{IA.
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Field, Harlan, JJ.

tion, and a State cannot regulate interstate commerce. The
same doctrine was recognized in Coe v Errol, 116 U S. 517.
And surely a State cannot interfere with the officers of the
United States, in the performance of their duties, whether acting under the Judicial, Military, Postal, or IRevenue Departments. They are entirely free from state control. So a
citizen of the United States, or any other person, in the performance of any duty, or in the exercise of any privilege, under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, is absolutely
free from, state control in relation to such matters. So that
the general proposition, that all persons and personal property
within a State is subject to the laws of the State, unless materially modified, cannot be true.
But, when personal property is permanently located within
a State for the purpose of ordinary use or sale, then, indeed, it
is subject to the laws of the State and to the burdens qf taxation, as well when owned by persons residing out of the State,
as when owned by persons residing in the State. It has then
acquired a situs in the State where it is found.
A man residing m New York may own a store, a factory
or a mine in Alabama, stocked with goods, utensils or materials for sale or use in that State. There is no question that
the situs of personal property so situated is in the State where
it is found, and that it may be subjected to double taxation, in.the State of the owner's residence, as a part of the general
mas" of his estate, and in the State of its situs. Although
this is a consequence which often bears hardly on the owner,
yet it is too firmly sanctioned by the law to be disturbed, and
no remedy seems to exist but a sense of equity and justice in
the legislatures of the several States. The rule would undoubtedly be more just if it made the property taxable, like
lands and real estate, only in the place where it is permanently
situated.
Personal as well as real property may have a situs of its
own, independent of the owner's residence, even when employed in interstate, or-foreign commerce. An office or warehouse, connected with a steamship line, or with a continental
railway, may be provided with furniture and all the apparatus

OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley. Field, Harlan, JJ.

and appliances usual in such establishments.

Such property

would be subject to the lea re sdw and to local taxation,

though solely devoted to the purposes of the business of those
lines. But the ships that traverse the sea, and the cars that
traverse the land, in those lines, being the vehicles of commerce, interstate or foreign, and intended, for its movement
from one State or country to another, and having no fixed or
permanent situs or home, except at the residence of the oivner,
cannot, without an invasion of the powers and dutiesof the
Federal government, be subjected to the burdens of taxation in
the places where they only go or come in the transaction of
their, business, except where they belong. Hays- v .Pacft
_Mail Steamshkp Co., 17 How 596, 2lforgan v Parham, 16
Wall. 471, Transmortaton' Co. v Wheeling, 99 U. S. 273.
To contend that there is any difference between cars or trains
of cars and ocean steamships in this regard, is to lose sight of
the essential qualities of things. This is a matter that does
not depend upon the affirmative action of Congress. The
regulation of ships and vessels, by act of Congress, does not
make them the instruments of commerce. They would be
equally so if no such affirmative regulations existed. For the
States to interfere with them in either case would be to interfere with, and to assume the exercise of, that power which, by
the Constitution, has been- surrendered by the States to the
government of the United States, namely, the power to regulate commerce.
Reference is made in the opinion of the court to the case of
Railroad Company v ffaryland, 21 Wall. 456, in which it
was said that commerce on land between the different States
is strikingly dissimilar in many respects from commerce on
water, but that was said in reference to the highways oftransportation in the two cases, and the difference of control
which the State has in one case from that which it can possibly have in the other. A railroad is laid on the soil of the
State, by virtue of authority granted by the 'State, and is constantly subject to the police jurisdiction of the State, whilst
the sea and navigable rivers are highways created by nature,
and are not subject to state control. The question in that case

PULLMAIN'S CAR CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Field, l4arlan, JJ.

related to the power of the State over its own corporation, it
reference to its rate -of fares and the remuneration it was
required to pay to the State for its franchises-an entirelv
different question from that which arises in the present case.
Reference is also made to expressions used in the opinion in
Gloucester Ferry Co. v Pennsylvansa,114 U S. 196, which,
standing alone, would seem to concede the right of a State to
tax foreign corporations engaged in foreign or interstate commerce, if such property is within the jurisdiction of the State.
But the whole scope of that opinion is to show that neither
the vehicles of commerce coming within the State, nor the
capital of such corporations, is taxable there, but only the
property having a situs there, as the wharf used for landing
passengers and freight. The entire series of decisions to that
effect are cited and relied on.
Of cou-se I do not mean to say that either railroad cars or
ghips are to be free from taxation, but I do say that they are
not taxable by those States in which they are only transiently
present in the transaction of their commercial operations. A
British ship coming to the harbor of New York from Liverpool ever so regularly and spending half its tune (when not on
the ocean) in that harbor, cannot be taxed by the State of Nev
York (harbor, pilotage and quarantine dues not beihg taxes).
So New York ships plying regularly to the port of New Orleans, so that one of the line may be always lying at the latter
port. cannot be taxed by the State of- Louisiana. (",ee -cases
above cited.) No more can a train of cars belonging in Penn,sylvania, and unning regularly from Philadelphia to New
York, or to Chicago, be taxed by the State of New York, in
the one case, or by Illinois, in the other. If it.
may lawfully
be taxed by these States, it may lawfully be taxed by all the
intermediate States, New Jersey, Ohio and Indiana. And
then we should have back again all the confusion and competition and state jealousies which existed before the adoption
of the Constitution, and for putting an end to which the- Constitution was adopted.
In the opinion of the court it is suggested that if all the
States should adopt as equitable a rule of- proportioning the
VOL. c.-u-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion

Bradley, Field, Harlan, JJ.

taxes on the Pullman Company as that adopted by Pennsyl.
vania, a just 'system of taxation of the whole capital stock of
the company would be the result. Yes, if -t
But Illinois
may tax the company on its whole capital stock. Where
would be the equity then 2 This, however, is a consideration
that cannot be -compared with the question as to the power to
tax at all,- as to the relative power of the State and general
governments over the regulation of internal commerce,- as tothe right of the States to resume those powers 'which have
been vested in the government -of the United States.
It seems to me that the real question in the present case is
as to the situs of the cars in question. They are used in interstate commerce, between Pennsylvania, New York and the
Western States. Their legal situs no more depends on the
States or places where they are carried ip the course of their
operations than would that of any steamboats employed by the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company to carry passengers on the
Ohio or Mississippi. If such steamboats belonged to a company located at Chicago, and were changed from time to time
as their condition as to repairs and the convenience of the
owners might render necessary, is it possible that the States in
which they were running and landing in the exercise of interstate commerce could subject them to taxation2 No one, I
-think, would contend this. It seems to me that the cars in
question belonging to the Pullman Car Company are in precisely the same category
The case of the Westerrn Unswn Telegracph Omp any v
-Massachusetts, 125-U. S. 530, is entirely different from the
present. In that case there was no question as to the situs of
the property taxed. It was situated within the State, consisting of poles, and wires, and offices and a general plant for
telegraphic purposes. The property belonged in Massachusetts, and was consequently taxable there. There was a phase
of that case which led some of the justices of the court to
doubt as to the proper decision to be made. The difficulty
was this The tax was, in terms, lade upon a certain proportional part of the capital stock of the company That proportion was regulated by the number of miles of telegraph within

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, Field, Harlan, JJ

the State, as compared with the number of miles of telegraph
belonging to the company in the whole country It was
objected that the property of the company situated in Massachusetts had no necessary relation to the said proportion of,
the capital stock; because the aggregate value of the stock
might depend on property, franchises and amount of business
outside of Massachusetts, largely out of proportion to the
miles of telegraph lines outside of that State. But the difficulty of getting at the true value of the property within the
State, and of adopting any other rule for ascertaining it, as
well as the failure of the company to show that the rule
adopted produced any unfair results, finally induced an acquiescence in the decision, but expressly on the ground that
though the tax was nominally on the shares of the capital
-stock of the company, it was in effect a tax upon the property
owned and used by it in Massachusetts, the proportional length
of the lines in that State to their entire length throughout the
whole country being merely used as the basis for ascertaining
the value of that property The same difficulty as to the
method of determining value exists in the present case which
existed in that, but the more serious difficulty lies in the question of the situs of the property, and the consequent jurisdiction of the State of Pennsylvania to tax it. It is Aot fast
property, it does not consist of real estate, it does not attach
itself to the land, it is movable and engaged in interstate
commerce, not in Pennsylvania alone, but in that and other
States, and the question is, how can such property be taxed by
a State to which-it does not belong? It is indirectly, but
virtually, taxing the passengers, many of them carried from
New York to Chicago, or from Chicago to New York, and
most of them from one State to anothdr. It is clearly a burden on interstate commerce. The opinion of the court is based
on the idea that the cars are taxable in Pennsylvania because
a certain number continuously abide there. But how can they
be said to abide there when they only stop at Philadelphia
and other stations to take on passengers 9 And it is all the
same whether they cross the State entirely, or run into or out
of other States with a terminus in. Pennsylvania.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Appellant.

It is only by virtue of such of its property as is situated in
Pennsylvania that the Pullman Company can be taxed there.
Its capital stock, as such, is certainly not taxable there. In
the case of WFestern Unson TelegrapAh Co. v. Xt!asachusetts, the
tax was sustained only on the ground that it was a tax on the.property 2n Massachusetts. The idea that the capital stock,
as such, could be taxed was repudiated. The State can no
more tax the capital stock of a foreign corporation than it can
tax the capital of a foreign person. Pennsylvania cannot tax
a citizen and resident of New York, either for the whole or
any portion of his general property or capital. It can only
tax such property of that citizen as may be located and have
a situs in Pennsylvania. State Tax on _Forezgn Bonds, 15
Wall. 300. And it is exactly the same with a foreign corpora
tion. Its capital, as such, is not taxable. Gloucester Ferry
Co. v Pennsylvania, qua supra. To hold otherwise would
lead to the most oppressive and unjust proceedings. It would
lead to a course of spoliation and reprisals that would endanger
the harmony of the Union.
MR. JUSTICE BRowNf, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY v. HAYWARD.
.PPEAL IRO3I THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 38.

Argued March 6,7, 1890.-Dectded May 25,1891.

Following Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvarna, ante, 18, the judgment
of the court below is affirmed.

THE ease is stated m 'the opinion.
Xr Edward . .Isham and 1r- ,ohn S. Bunnells for appel.
lant.

