CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.

In

Po

GARNETT AND OTHERS.
ORIGINAL.

No. 1).

Original.

Argued March 9, 10, 1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

The law of limited liability is part of the maritime law of the United States,
and is in force upon navigable rivers above tide water, and applies to
enrolled and licensed vessels exclusively engaged in commerce on such
a river.
ON

the 2d of February, 1891, leave was granted to .Mr

Walter 7an Rensselaer -Ber y to file the petition of Garnett,
Stubbs & Co. and everal others for a writ of prohibition to
prohibit the judge of the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern Division of the Southern District of Georgia
from proceeding with a suit in admiralty in that court, in
which John Lawton, owner of the steamer Katie, had libelled
that vessel and summoned the petitioners as defendants. Leave
was granted, and the petition was filed, to which was attached
a copy of the libel.
It appeared that the Katie was a steamer engaged in the
carrying trade between Augusta on the Savannah River and
-Savannah, on the same river, both in the State of Georgia,
that in October, 1887, she received from the various petiVOL. CXL-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

tioners, and from various points along the river, cotton to be
transported for each petitioner, and that while making the
voyage she took fire and some of the cotton was burned, and
other bales were thrown overboard.
The owners or consignees of the cotton which had been damaged or lost brought
suits against Lkwton, as a common carrier, to recover in each
case, its value. There were ten actions in all, and their aggregate claims were about sixteen thousand d11ars.
Thereupon Lawton filed the libel in question alleging, as set
forth in the petition, "that the amount sued for in said cases,
and the loss and damage happening by means of or by reason
of said fire, exceeded the value of said steamboat and her
freight on said voyage, and that said fire was not caused by
any negligence of said libellant or of the master and crew of
said steamboat, and that under the act of Congress, approved
March 3, 1851, as amended by the act of Congress, approved
June 19, 1886, said libellant was not in any wise liable for
said loss or damage, and claiming further, in the event of any
liability, the benefit of the limitation provided in the .hird and
fourth sections of said, act of March 3, 1851, a copy of said
libel and its ' Exhibits' being hereunto annexed."
The petition further alleged "That afterwards, to wit, on
the 8th day of March, 1888, an appraisement of said steamboat
and freight was had, said steamboat being appraised at $3300
.and the freight at $196.75, making a total of $3496.75, for
-which said sum the said John Lawton entered into the usual
,stipulation on May 4, 1889."
YFrom the answer of the district judge it appeared that the
defendants in the admiralty suit had demurred to the libel and
had moved to dismiss the same "because the fourth section of
the act of Congress approved June 19, 1886, is alleged to be
uiconstitutional," and that the court had overruled the demurrer, and dismissed the motion, and ordered the cause to
proceed.
This fourth section is as follows "Section 4. That section
4289, of the Revised Statutes, be amended so as to read as follows ' Section 4289. The provisions of the seven preceding
sections and of section eighteen of an act entitled "An act to re-

IN RE GARNETT.
Argument for Petitioner.

move certain burdens on the American merchant marine, and
to encourage the American foreign carrying trade, and other
purposes," approved June twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and
eighty-four, relating to the limitations of the liability of the
owners of vessels, shall apply to all sea-going vessels, and
also to all vessels used on lakes or rivers, or in inland navigation, including canal-boats. barges and lighters.'
24: Stat.
80, 81.
MAr Samuel B. Adams for the petitioner.
I. Our main contention is that the words here used are
none of them limited, as an act of Congress must be in order
to be valid, even if the validity of such legislation is not confined to the commerce clause of the Constitution, and may be
supported by the clause touching the admiralty and maritime
jurisdictibn of the courts of the United States, and even
although this act can be regarded as simply a regulation of
the vessel itself.
We must bear in mind that we are not attacking an act of
a State, where the legislature has all the powers except those
prohibited, but an act of Congress, concerning whose powers
it has been properly said in Potter's "Dwarris on Statutes and
Constitutions," pages 367 and 368 "When those powers are
questioned, the only duty of the court is to see whether the
grant of specific powers is broad enough to embrace the act."
To the same effect are the decisions of this court in ffartin v
iunter's Zessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 326, Trade .Marl Cases, 100
U. S. 82, 93, and in Gilman v Philadephza, 3 Wall. 713,
725, 726.
In the Trade .Mark Cases this court, in holding that the
words "any person or firm" were too broad, uses this clear
and emphatic language, "When, therefore, Congress undertakes to enact a law which can only be v lid a
regulation
of commerce, it is reasonable to expect to find, on the face of
the law, or from. its essential nature, that it is a regulation of
commerce with foreign nations, or among the several States,
or with the Indian tribes. If not so limited it is in excess of
the power of Congress."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Petitioner.

We fully recognize the familiar principle that a law may be
constitutional in part and bad in part. Under this principle
the worcTs "sea-going vessels," covering maritime commerce,
may be saved because they are capable of separation from the
rest of the clause, but the courts never change, limit or restrict (which Nould change) the natural and obvious meaning
,of words so as to amend the statute into harmony with the
fundamental law If the words used are susceptible of two
constructions, one that will harmonize the law *ith the Constitution, and another which will bring it into hostility, the
courts will adopt the former construction. But when the
words used are clear and unambiguous, and these words evince
an unconstitutional exercise of power, the courts cannot save
the law
One of the main purposes of the law as it previously stood,- (although the excepting clause was -more comprehensive than the necessities of this purpose demanded,) was.
to save internal commerce from the operation of the limited
liability sections. And it seems to us clear that one of the
main purposes of the amendment was to include this internal
commerce. Whether this was a controlling purpose or not,
every word used which can in any wise be applied to the case
at bar, is broad enough to necessarily cover every form of internal commerce carried on by water, and every form of craft,
no matter how insignificant its draft, and no matter how exclusively local and humble its business. This court will be
asked, in order to save the law, that it limit this act of 1886"
to the constitutional limitations of Congress, when the purpose
of the law is that it be unlimited and unrestricted. If this act
be good, there is no limit to the power of Congress in the
regulation of commerce. The Constitution does not restrict
it to water, and therefore it can pass an act limiting ever so
radically the liability of a common carrier anywhere, no matter how thoroughly internal and local its business. T/e Genesee Ck'ef, 12 How 443, 452, Pemacola Tel. Co. v. Wester.
Unwn Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1, 8, 9.
'If this law can find support in the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction clause, then, we repeat, it is still, in all of the
terms that are germane, entirely too broad, unless this cofrt

IN RE GARNETT.
Argument for Petitioner.

can hold that this -jurisdiction covers all localities where it
chances to be a "little damp," and, under the guise of junsdiction, the United States courts can be given the power to
practically destroy the rights of citizens who are compelled to
patronize ships.
Wherever it is applicable, the law was radical enough
before. Under the decision of the majority of this court, in
Providence and _ew York Steamhip Co. v. Hill 3Janufactursng Co., 109' U. S. 578, in the case of loss happening by
fire, the owner of the ship is not liable at all unless the
neglect was shown to be his own personal neglect, and even
then, his liability is confined to his interest in the ship.
On aepount of the importance of the proposition that "it is not
within the judicial province to give to the words used by Congress a narrower meaning than they are manifestly intended
to bear" in order to save an act from the objection of unconstitutionality, we refer, in addition to the Trade -lark Case
to the following United States v Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 220,
221, Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 269, 301, 305 (a civil
case which applies the principle recognized in the Trade Miark,
Cases, and in United States v Reese), Sprasgue v. Tompson,
118 U. S. 90 , Allen v Louisiana, 103 U. S.80, State Tonnage Tax Cases, 12 Wall. 201, 217, 219, lreloup v Port of
.Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 647, and Lord v. Steamship Co., 102
U. S.541.
II. The commerce clause of the Constitution, upon which
we submit this legislation must be based, and to which the
decisions of this court and of other United States courts refer
such legislation for its sanction, not only does not authorize,
but it prohibits any act by Congress broad enough to control
-or regulate internal commerce or traffic between citizens of the
same State. This clause was intended to place such commerce beyond its control. See Veaz~e v ilfoore, 14 How
573 et seq., Gibbons v. Ogden. 9 Wheat. 194, 195 ,. Moore v.
Amerwan TransportationCompany, 24 How 37 and 39, The
-DanielBall, 10 Wall. 564, 565, The Trade .AXark Cases, 100
JU. S.95 et seq., Lord v. Steamship Company, 102 U. S.543,
Sands v, River Company, 123 U. S.295.

OCTOBER

TERMA,

1890.

Argument for Petitioner

III. Authority for this legislation cannot be found in the
clause providing that the judicial power shall extend to all
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
We admit that the jurisdiction of the admiralty court is
not circumscribed by the commerce clause, that the courts
may try cases involving vessels engaged in purely internal
commerce, and questions appertaining to such commerce. But
this affects only theforum. It does not concern the substantial rights of the parties.
A shipowner entitled to the benefits of the limited liability
act of 1851, need not go into a court of admiralty at all,
his rights are secured independently of the tribunal. lHe may
assert them by a plea to a common law action in any court.
See The Scotland, 105 U. S. 33, 34. Generally it will be found
that the remedies of the Distrmic Court are more full and complete, but the shipowner is not confined to this court, and his
rights are the same in any tribunal. If this be so, the correlative ricghts of his patrons ought to be the same, no matter in
what tribunal they may be adjudicated.
Other cases, in addition to those heretofore cited, hold thdit
the .validity of this legislation depends upon the commerce
clause. See Te War Eagle, 6 Bissell, 366, Lord v Steamshqp Co., 4 Sawyer, 292, The .ifame,5 Fed. Rep. 821, the
same case is affirmed-in 8 Fed. Rep. 367, Amemwcan Transportation Co. v 3foore, 5 Michigan, 392 and 393, Hleadrscj
v. Tlirg'ma &c. Railway Co., 48 Georgia, 549.
If, then, this legislation can be separated from its effect
upon the traffic rights and obligations of the parties concerned, and can be confined to a mere regulation of vessels,
we insist that no authoritative decision can be found which
will sustain the validity of a law of Congress requiring a
vessel engaged solely in internal commerce, and entirely digconnected from interstate or foreign commerce, to be licensed,
oil which otherwise regulates such a vessel. Many can be
cited against this power of Congress, and some of the decisions herembefore discussed are in point on this branch of
the case.
In Gibbons v Ogden, in discussing the power of Congress

IN RE GARNETT.
Argument for Petitioner.

over navigation, under the commerce clause, the court limits
it to that which is in some manner connected with foreign
nations or among the several States, or with the Indian tribes.
9 Wheat. 1, 197.
In the _Passenger Cases, 7 How 283, 400, Mr. Justice
McLean says: "If Congress should impose a tonnage duty
on vessels which ply between ports within the same State, or
require such vessels to take out a license, or impose a tax or
persons transported in them, the act would be unconstitutional and void."
In Sinot v .Davenport, 22 How 227, this court held that an
act of the State of Alabama, which was broad enough to
regulate vessels under the control of Congress was void, but in
treating of the control of Congress over ships, the court,
on page 243, recognizes the limitation contended for by us,
a limitation which the act of 1886 not merely ignores, but
proposes to repudiate.
The case of The Bright Star, I Wool. C. C., is very much
in point. The question decided by Mr. Justice Miller was
whether she was compelled to take out a license, and was
under the inspection laws. This question had been determined in the negative by the judge of the District Court, and
h'is decision was, on appeal, affirmed in a full and exhaustive
opinion. AMr. Justice Miller holds that it is not in the power
of Congress to regulate vessels confined to internal commerce,
and "that Congress has in its legislation steadily kept this in
view"
See also Th; Oconte, 5 Bissell, 463, The War Eagle,
6 Bissell, 366. In The Thomas Swan, 6 Ben. 42, Judge
Blatchford approves and follows Judge Miller's opinion, holding that The Thomas Sivan does not fall within the principle
of -Me Daniel Ball, ub?. supra. See also Gilman v Philadelphza, 3 Wall. 557, cited by Judge Miller in 1 Woolworth.
IV In conclusion, we submit what we have heretofore incidentally noticed, that if this legislation can be based upon
the jurisdictional clause of the Constitution, and if the commerce clause can be expunged, yet still it cannot be constitutional. In any event, in order for the courts of the United
States to have ]urisdiction, the waters must be navigable

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

waters of the United States which, as already noticed, are
waters which by themselves, or by their connection with
other waters, form a continuous channel for commerce among
the States, or with foreign countries. See The Genesee Chsef,
12 How 443, Allen v NTewberry, 21 How 244, The Hine
v Trevor, 4 Wall. 555, The Be/fast, 7 Wall. 624, Steamer
St. Lawrence, I Black, 522, Butler v. Boston Steamshkp Co.,
130 U. S. 527.
.fr P. G Erwtn,opposing.
MR. JusTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for a writ of prohibition to be directed to
the judge of the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern Division of the Southern District of Georgia, to prohibit said judge from taking further cognizance of a certain
suit instituted before him in said court. The suit sought to be
prohibited is a libel filed in said court by John Lawton, owner
of the steamboat Katie, seeking a decree for limited liability
for the loss and damage which accrued by fire on said steamboat in the Savannah River on the 12th of October, 1887.
A copy of this libel is annexed to the petition for prohibition.
It sets out the facts that Lawton was the owner of the steamboat; that she was an enrolled vessel of the United States, duly
licensed to carry on the coasting trade; that she had for twenty
years- been--engaged in transporting merchandise, goods and
commodities from and to the ports of Savannah and Augusta,
and intermediate ports and landings on the Savannah River,
in the States of South Carolina and Georgia, and that some
of the said goods -were transported by said steamboat as one
of the through lines of carriers, 'issuing through bills of lading
to and from ports and places within the State of Georgia,
and ports and places in other States of the United States and
foreign countries.
The libel then states that on the 8th of October, 1887, the
said steamboat left Augusta for Savannah and intermediate
places on the river in South Carolina and Georgia, intending
to load a cargo chiefly of cotton, being properly manned and

IN

RE GARNETT.

Opinion of the Court.

equipped, that on the 10th day of October, having then on
board 643 bales of cotton, she left a landing called Burton's

Ferry, and shortly after struck on a sand bar, and notwithstanding the utmost endeavor of master a-ad crew, remained
there till October 12th, when fire was discovered in the cotton
near the bow of the steamboat, that the fire spread with great
rapidity, and some of the bales of cotton had to be thrown
overboard to prevent it from spreading more, and after three
hours of the hardest and most hazardous work, the master and
prew succeeded in clearing the bow of the burning cotton, and
saving the vessel and a portion of the cargo, but leaving the
vessel much burned and damaged. A list of the cargo was
attached to the libel, which proceeded to state that nearly all
of the consignees of the cotton lost or damaged had brought
suits against the libellant; and a list of the suits was also appended to the libel, in two of which attachments were issued,
that the amount thus sued for, and the loss and damage happening by means of said fire, exceeded the value of the said
steamboat and her freight on said voyage, that the fire was not
caused by 4ny negligence of the libellant, or of the master and
crew, and that by reason of the exception against fire contained
re.the bills of lading and receipts, the libellant was not liable
for the loss and damage caused by said fire, that libellant did
not know the cause of the fire nor had any information as to
the cause, not being on board of the vessel at the time, and
that all the loss, destruction and damage to the bales of cotton
happened by means of said fire, and that said fire was not.
caused by the design or neglect of the libellant, but was solely
caused without his privity or knowledge.
After an allegation that the Savannal River is a navigable
stream lying partly in Georgia and partly in South Carolina,
and that the contracts for carrying the cotton were maritime
contracts, the libellant proceeded to contest his entire liability,
under the act of Congress in that behalf, and under the bills
of lading, and if he should be held liable be claimed the benefit of limited liability The libel concluded with the usualprayer for appraisement of the vessel, and a monition to all
persons claiming damages to appear, etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The petitioners, who now come to this court for a prohibition, allege that they are cotton factors and commission merchants, residing and doing business in Savannah, and that they
were the consignees of the cotton constituting the cargo of the
said steamboat, except a few bales. They state that the said
steamboat was engaged exclusively in inland navigation of the
Savannah River, between the ports of Augusta and Savannah
and intermediate ports and places on either side of the said
river, and that she was not a sea-going vessel. They further
state the various suits brought by them, respectively, namely,
ten different suits, mostiy in the city court of Savannah, for
different sums, amounting in the aggregate to nearly sixteen
thousand dollars, and that in all of said suits, except two
attachments, personal service was made on the said Lawton,
the owner of said steamboat. The petitioners further state
the filing of the said libel, and that an appraisement of the
steamboat and freight had been made, amounting to a total
of $3496.75, for which sum the said Lawton had entered int&
the usual stipulation. They further state that afterwards, on
the 9th of April, 1888, they objected to the said District Court
taking further cognizance of the case, and moved to dismiss
the libel on the grounds that the said court was without jurisdiction in the premises, and that the 4th section of the act of
Congress, approved June 19, 1886, on which the said action
was based, is unconstitutional and void, but that the said
court overruled the said motion and determined to proceed
with the further cognizance of the cause. The petitioners
further state, and rely upon the fact, that the greater part of
the cotton was shipped by Georgia consignors, from diverm
points or places within the State of Georgia, to be transported
to Savannah, Georgia, to consignees who were residents and
citizens of Savannah, and-was the subject of a commerce
strictly internal.
The act of Congress to which the petitioners refer as being
the act on which the libel of Lawton was based, and which
they contend is unconstitutional and void, is the 4th section of
the act approved June 19, 1886, entitled, "An act to abolish
certain fees for official services to American vessels, and to.

IN RE GARNETT.
Opinion of -the Court.

amend the laws relating to shipping, commissioners, seamen
and owners of vessels, and for other purposes." 24 Stat. 79.
By the section referred to, section 4289 of the Revised Statutes was amended so as to read as follows "Sec. 4289. The
provisions of the seven preceding sections, and of section eighteen of an act entitled ' An act to remove certain burdens on
the .American merchant marine and encourage the American
foreign carrying trade, and for other purposes, approved June
26, 1884, relating to the limitations of the liability of the
owners of vessels, shall apply to all sea-going vessels, and
also to all vessels used on lakes or rivers or in inland navigation, including canal-boats, barges and lighters."' The purport and effect of this section is apparent from an inspection
of the original limited l;ability act passed March 3, 1851.
9 Stat. 635, c. 43. After exempting ship owners from liability
for loss or damage occasioned by fire on board of their ships,
happening without any design or neglect of theirs; and for
loss of precious metals or jewelry of which they or the masters of their vessels have not received written notice, and
declaring that their liability shall in no case exceed the value
of their interest in the ship and freight then pending., for any
loss, damage or injury to any property caused by the master,
crew or other persons, without their privity or knowledge,
and making other provisions for carrying out the design of
the act, a final clause is added in the words following, to wit
"This act shall not apply to the owner or owners of any
canal-boat, barge or lighter, or to any vessel of any description whatever, used in rivers or inland navigation." The
whole act was afterwards carried into the Revised- Statutes
and constitutes sections 4281 to 4289, inclusive, the section
respecting precious metals and jewelry having been somewhat
enlarged by an amendment made in 1871. The final words
of the act above quoted constitute section 4289 of the Revised
Statutes, which, as before stated, was amended by the act of
1886 so as to make'the limited liability act apply to all kinds
of vessels, not only sea-going vessels, but those used on lakes
or rivers, or in inland navigation, including canal-boats, barges
and lighters. The 4th secfion of the act of 1886 also regulates

OCTOBER TERMK, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the application of the 18th section of an act approved June 26,
1884, 23 Stat. 57, which reduced the individual liability of 4
ship owner for all debts and liabilities of the ship to the proportion of his individual share in the vessel. This section
requires no further notice. The only question in the case
therefore is, whether the 4th section of the act of 1886, extending the limited liability act to vessels used on a river in
inland navigation, like the steamboat in question, is, as contended, unconstitutional and void.
Itis unnecessary to inquire whether the section is valid as to
all the kinds of vessels named in it, if it is valid as to the kind
to which the steamboat Katie belongs it is sufficient for the purposes of this case. And this question we think can be solved
by a reference to two or three propositions which have become
the settled law of this country
It is unnecessary to invoke the power given to Congress to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several states, in order to find authority to pass the law in question. The act of Congress which limits the liability of ship
owners was passed in amendment of the maritime law of the
country, and the power to make such amendments is coextensive wi 6h that law It is not confined to the boundaries or
class of subjects which limit and characterize the power to
regulate commerce, but, in maritime matters, it extends to all
.matters and places to which the maritime law extends. The
subject has frequently been up for consideration by this court
for many years past, and but one view has been expressed. It
was gone over so fully, however, in the late case of Butler v
Boston Steams/h.p Co., 130 U. S. 527, that we cannot do better than to quote a single passage. from the opinion of the
court in that case. We there said
"The law of limited liability, as we have frequently had
occasion to assert, was enacted by Congress as a part of the
,maritime law of this country, and therefore it is coextensive,
in its operation, with the whole territorial domain of that law
XYorwick Co. v. W'right, 13 Wall. 104, 127, The Lottawana,
21 Wall. 558, 577, The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 29, 31, Promdence & Nfew York Steamsk'ty Co. v Hill 3fanufacturmng Co.,

IN RE GARNETT.
Opinion, of the Court.

In The Lottawana we said 'It cannot
be supposed that the framers of the Constitution contemplated that the law should forever remain unalterable. Congress undoubtedly has authority under the commercial power,
if no other, to introduce such changes as are likely to be
needed.' p. 577. Again, on page 575, speaking of the maritime jurisdiction referred to in the Cohstitution, and the system of law to be administered thereby, it was said 'The
Constitution must have referred to a system of law coextensive with, and operating uniformly in, the whole country It
certainly could not have been the intention to place the rules
and limits of maritime law under the disposal and regulation
of the several States, as that would have defeated the urnformity and consistency at which the Constitution aimed on
all subjects of a commercial character affecting the intercourse
of the States with each other or with foreign states.' In The
Scotland this language was used 'But it is enough to say,
that the rule of limited responsibility is now our maritime
rule. It is the rule by which, through the act of Congress,
we have announced that we propose to administer justice in
maritime cases.' p. 31. Again, in the same case, p. 29, we
said 'But, whilst the- rule adopted by Congress is the same
as the rule of the general maritime law, its efficacy as a rule
depends upon the statute, and not uppn any inherent force of
the maritime law As explained in The Lottawana
the maritime law is only so far operative as law in any country as it is adopted by the laws and usages of that country,
and this particular rule of the maritime law had never been
adopted in this country until it was enacted by statute.
Therefore, whilst it is now a part of our maritime law, it is,
nevertheless, statute law' And in Providenc & 3Tew York
Steamship Co. v EMl .Manf'g Co. it was said 'The rule of
limited liability prescribed by the act of 1851 is nothing more
than the old maritime rule, administered in courts of admiralty in all countries except England, from time immemorial,
and if this were not so, the subject matter itself is one that
belongs to the department of maritime law' p. 593.
" These quotations are believed to express the general, if
109 U. S. 578, 593.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not unanimous, views of the members of this court for nearly
twenty years past, and they leave us in no doubt that, whilst
the general maritime law, with slight modifications, is accepted as law in this country, it is subject to such amendments
as Congress may see fit to adopt. One of the modifications
of the maritime law, as received here, was a rejection of the
law of limited liability We have rectified that. Congress
has restored that article to our maritime code. We cannot
doubt its power to do this. As the Constitution extends the
judicial power of the United States to 'all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction,' and as this jurisdiction is held to
be exclusive, the power of legislation on the same subject must
necessarily-be in the national legislature, and not in the state
legislatures. It is true, we have held thgt the boundaries and
limits of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction are matters
of judicial cognizance, and cannot be affected or controlled by
legislation, whether state or national. 'Chief Justice Taney,
in The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 522, 526, 527, The Lottawana,
21 Wall: 558, 575, 576. But. within these boundaries and
limits the law itself is that which has always been received as
maritime law in this country, with such amendments and modifications as Congress may from time to time have adopted.
"It being clear, then, that the law of limited liability of
ship owners is a part of our maritime code, the extent of its
territorial operation (as before intimated) cannot -be doubtful.
It is necessarily co-extensive with that of the general admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and that by the settled law of
this country extends wherever public navigation extends -on
the sea and the great inland lakes, and the navigable waters
connecting therewith. TFarvng v Clarke, 5 How 441, The
Genesee Cheef v Fitzhugh, 12 How 443, Jackson v The .Xlagnolia, 20 -How 296, Commerezal Tano'rtaion Co. v. Fitzhugh, 1 Black, 574." pp. 555-557.
It being established, therefore, that the law of limited liability is part of the maritime law of the United States, it only
remins to determine whether that law may be applied to
navigable rivers above, tide water, such as the Savannah River,
and to vessels engaged in commerce on such a, river, like the

IN RE GARNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

steamboat Katie, in this case. Of this there can be no doubt
whatever. The question has been settled by a long course of
decisions, some of which are here referred to. Genesee Chzf v
.Fitzkugk, 12 How 443, Fretz v. Bull, 12 How 466, Jackon
v IThe .Aagnolia, 20 How. 296, Nelson v Leland, 22 How 48,1
The Propeller Commerce, 1 Black, 574, The Hine v Trevor,
4 Wall. 555, The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, The Eagle, 8 Wall.
15, Te .Danel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, TIe gontello, 20 Wall
430, Exrparte Boyer, 109 U. S. 629.. In all of these cases it
wag held that the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction granted
to the Federal government by the Constitution of the United
States is not limited to tide waters, but extends to all public
navigable lakes and rivers. In some of the cases it was held
distinctly that this jurisdiction does not depend on the question of foreign or interstate commerce, bat also exists where
the voyage or contract, if maritime in character, is made and
to be performed. wholly within a single State. Mr. Justice
Clifford, in the opinion of the court in Tke Befast, said
"Principal subjects of admiralty jurisdiction are maritime
contracts and maritime torts, including capturesyure lelli, and
seizures on water for municipal and revenue forfeitures. (1)
Contracts, claims or service, purely maritime, and touching
rights-and duties appertaifding to commerce and 1avigation,
are cognizable in the admiralty (2) .Torts or injuries committed on navigable waters, of a civilnature, are also cogmzable in the Admiralty Courts. Jurisdiction in the former case
depends upon the nature of the contract, but in the latter depends entirely upon locality
Navigable rivers, which
empty into the sea, or into the bays and gulfs which form a
part of the sea, are but arms of the sea, and are as much
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States, as the sea itself. Difficulties attend every attempt to
define the exact limits of admiralty jurisdiction, but it cannot
be made to depend upon the power of Congress to regulate
commerce, as conferred in the Constitution. They are entirely distinct things, having no necessary connection with one
another, and are conferred, in the Constitution, by separate
and distinct grants." pp. 637, 640.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
-Opmion of the Court.

Jackson v The -Magnoliawas a case of collision between
two steamboats on the Alabama River, far above tide water,
and within the jurisdiction qf a county A libel in admiralty
was filed by one of the parties in the District Court of the
United States, which was dismissed on the ground of want of
jurisdiction. This court reversed the decree and maintained
the admiralty jurisdiction. Mr. Justice Grier, delivering the
opinion of the court, said. "Before the adoption of the present constitution, each State, in the exercise of its sovereign
power, had its own Court of Admiralty, having jurisdiction
over the harbors, creeks, inlets and public navigable waters,
connected with the sea. This jurisdiction was exercised not
only over rivers, creeks and inlets, which were boundaries to
or passed through other States, but also where they were
wholly within the State. Such a distinction was unknown,
nor (as it appears from the decision of this court in the case
of Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441) had these courts been driven
from the exercisb of jurisdiction over torts committed on navigable water within the body of a county, by the jealousy of
the common law courts. When, therefore, the exercise of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction over its public rivers,
ports and havens was surrendered by each State to the government of the United States, without an exception as to subjects
or places, this court cannot interpolate one into the constitution, or introduce an arbitrary distinction which has no foundation in reason or precedent." p. 298.
In _Telson v Leland, the same conclusion was reached, and
the same doctrine maintained. That was also a case of collision between a steamer and a flat-boat on the Yazoo River,
which lies wholly in the State of Mississippi, and empties into
the Mississippi River.
In the case of The Prop-eZer Commerce it was held that in
order to bring a case of collision within the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts it is not necessary to show that
either of the vessels was engaged in foreign commerce, or
commerce between the States. Maritime torts, such as collision, etc., committed on navigable waters above tide water,
are cogmzable in the admiralty, without reference to the voyage or destination of either vessel.

IN RE GARNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case of The Belfast, it was decided that on an ordinary contract of affreightment the shipper has a maritime lien
which may be enforced in the admiralty courts, although the
contract be for transportation between ports and-placeswithin
the same State, provided it be upon navigable waters, to which
the general jurisdiction of the admiralty extends.
In the case of The 3Yonte lo, it was held that Fox River, in
Wisconsin, is a navigable river, although made such by artificial improvements, and that a steamer navigating the same is
subject to the'laws of the United States with regard to the
enrolment and license of vessels, and is iiable to be proceeded
against in admiralty for non-compliance with such laws.
In Exparte Boyer, it was decided that the admiralty jurisdiction extends to a steam canal-boat, in case of collision between her and another canal-boat, whilst the two boats were
navigating the Illinois and Lake Michigan Canal, although
the libellant's boat was bound from one place in Illinois to
another place in the same State. Mr. Justice Blatchford, de•livering the opinion of the court in that case, said •"Within
the -principles laid down by this court in the cases of The-DanseZBall, 10 Wall. 557, and The 3Montello, 20 Wall. 430,.
which extended the salutary views of admiralty jurisdiction
applied in The Genesee Chif, 12 How 443, The Hine v
Trevor, 4 Wall. 555, and The EaglZ, 8 Wall. 15, we have nodoubt of the jurisdiction of -the District -Court in this caseNavigable water situated as this canal is, used for the purposes.
for which it is used, a highway for commerce- between ports.
and places in different States, carried on by vessels such as.
those in question here, is public water of the United States,
and within the legitimate scope of the admiralty jurisdiction
conferred by the Constitution and statutes of the United States,.
even though-the canal is wholly artificial, and is wholly within
the body of a State, and subject to its ownership and control,.
and it makes no difference as to the jurisdiction of the District
Court that one or the other of the vessels was at the time of
the collision on a voyage from one place in the State of Illinois to another place in that State. The Befa t, 7 Wall. 6241."
pp. 631, 632.
VOL. cx-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

In view of the principles laid down in the cases now referred
to, we have. no hesitation in saying that the Savannah River,
from its mouth to the highest point to which it is navigable,
is subject to the maritime law and the admiralty jurisdiction
of the UnitedStates. It follows, as a matter of course, that
Congress, having already, by the act of 1851, amended the
maritime law by giving the benefit of a limited liability to the
owners of all vessels navigating the oceans and great lakes of
the country, and withholding it from the owners of vessels
used in rivers or inland navigation, was perfectly competent
to abolish that restriction in 1886, and extend the same beneficent rule to the latter class also. We think that the act in
question, namely, the 4th section of. the act of 1886, is a constitutional and valid law
As regards the steamboat itself, and the business in which
she was engaged, in riew of the authorities already referred
to, there is not the slightest doubt that the case was one
within the admiralty jurisdiction. The steamboat was a regularly enrolled and licensed vessel of the United States, and
was engaged in maritime commerce on the Savannah River,
one of the navigable rivers of the United States.
T/e writ of.prohiitions densed.

PULL]MAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE -OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 1. Argued October 18, 1888. -Reargunent ordered November 5,1888. -Reargued
6,1890. -Decided May 25, 1891.

March

A statute of a State, imposing a tax on the capital stock of all corporations
engaged in the transportation of freight or passengers within the State,
under which a corporation of another State, engaged in running railroal
cars into, through and out of the State, and having at all times a large
number of such cars within the State, is taxed by taking as the basis of
assessment such proportion of its capital stock as the number of miles of

