FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO. (3)
Statement of the Case.

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY (3)
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 36.

STATES FOR

Argued April 16, 17, 1891. - Decided October 26, 1891.

A Connecticut corporation made in 1876 a loan of ten thousand dollars for
five years at nine per cent to a citizen of Illinois, the- loan being evidenced by note, secured by deed of trust on real estate in the latter
State, providing that nothing contained in it should be so construed as
to prevent a foreclosure by legal process, and that upon any foreclosure,
the corporation should recover in audition to the principal, interest and
ordinary costs, a reasonable attorney's or solicitor's fee, not exceeding
five per cent for the collection thereof. It. was also stipulated in the
deed, that the decree or order for foreclosure should direct and require
that the expenses of such foreclosure and sale, including the fees of
solicitor and counsel, be taxed by the court at a reasonable amount, and
paid out of the proceeds of the sale. The highest rate allowed by the
laws of Ilinois at the time of the loan was ten per cent. The borrower
paid the agent of the company a commission of $150 under such an
arrangement as that referred to in the case of Fowler v. Equitable Trust
Co., ante, 881. Held,
(1) That the payment of these commissions to the company's agent did
not make the contract usurious, because if that sum was added
to the nine per cent stipulated to be paid, the total amount of the
interest exacted was less than the highest rate then allowed by
law;
(2) The stipulation in the deed of trust providing for the payment by
the borrower, in addition to ordinary costs, of a reasonable solicitor's fee, not exceeding five per cent, for collection in the event
of a suit to foreclose, did not make the contract usurious under
the law of Illinois.

THE court stated the case as follows
The Trust Company, upon the written application of Sophie
Fowler, a citizen of Illinois, agreed to lend her the sum of
She
$10,000, for five years, at nine per cent per annum.
and her husband executed to the company, for the principal
of the loan, ten coupon bonds of one thousand dollars each.
dated February 1, 1876, and payable on the 1st day of February, 1881, with interest, semi-annually, at the rate of seven.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

per cent per annum. They executed at the same time ten
promissory notes of $100 each for the remaining two per cent,
the first one being payable August 1, 1876, and the others,
respectively, on the first days of February and August, 1877
to 1881, inclusive. To secure payment of the bonds, they
conveyed to Jonathan Edwards, trustee, certain real estate in
Springfield, and to secure the ten promissory notes of $100
each, they conveyed the same property to the same trustee,
subject, however, to the other trust deed. These deeds do not
differ in any respect material to this case from the deeds in
the preceding cases, except that the deed given to secure the
bonds here involved, aggregating $10,000, provides that nothing contained in it shall be so construed "as to prevent a foreclosure of the same by process of the law or in chancery,"
and that the trustee, or his successor or successors, shall,
"upon any foreclosure of this trust deed, recover, in addition
to principal, interest and ordinary costs, a reasonable attorney's or solicitor's fee, not exceeding five per cent for the collection thereof, all to be collected without relief from valuation
or appraisement laws. And in case of any such foreclosure it
is hereby stipulated that the decree or order for foreclosure
shall direct and require that the expenses of such foreclosure
and sale, including the fees of solicitor and counsel, to be
taxed by the court at a reasonable amount, shall be paid out
of the proceeds of the sale," etc. This suit was brought to
foreclose the defendant's equity of redemption, and to have
the mortgaged property sold to pay the amount due the company The answer in the case raised the same questions that
are presented in the four preceding cases.
By a decree entered October 20, 1884, the court adjudged
that the company recover $5125.42 as the balance of the
principal sum actually received by the defendants, $614.72 for
insurance and taxes paid by it, with interest thereon, and $287
as solicitor's fee, in all, $6027.14.
When this decree was
entered the plaintiff filed a written motion and petition for
rehearing, in respect to which the same proceedings were had
as in the preceding cases, and like motions and petitions for
rehearing were filed. A rehearing having been granted, the

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO. (3)
Opinion of the Court.

order for which was entered as of October 31, 1884, a final
decree was entered January 11, 1887, adjudging that there
was due the plaintiff for the principal and interest of the loan
815,296.60, $31113.26 for insurance, taxes and special assessments paid by it, and a reasonable attorney's fee, which was
fixed at $923.4:9; in all, $19,393.35. and costs. From that
decree the defendants appealed.
[This case was argued with lNos. 32, 33, ante, 384, and Nos.
34, 35, ante, 408.]
i&

William L. Gross for the Equitable Trust Company

IA& -Robert G Ingersoll and -r
Fowler.

William Ritehwe for

MR. JusTicE HARL"_i, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
For the reasons given in the opinion in Nos. 32 and 33, ante,
384, the question of usury raised must be determined by the
law of Illinois. But what was there said in reference to
usury, commissions paid to the company's agent by the borrower and the application to the principal sum of payments
made has no application to this case. This was a loan of
$10,000 for five years at nine per cent. The borrower received'the whole amount agreed to be loaned to her. There
was not even a reservation of interest in advance. She only
gave notes for two per cent of the interest payable when the
interest under the contract would become due. The paymeit
of $150 to the broker, as his commission, did not make that
contract usurious, for, if that sum be added to the nine per
cent interest stipulated to be paid, the total amount of interest
exacted would be less than ten per cent, the highest rate
allowed by law In Brown v Scottish-Amerwa Mortgage
Co., 110 Illinois, 235, 239, the court said "In the next place,
at the time this loan was made (July 15, 1875) it was lawful
to exact ten per cent per annum interest on money loaned.
The note given bears interest only at the rate of nine per cent

414

OCTOBER TERMI,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

per annum, and runs for five years.

It has been held, and is

the well-settled law of this court, that it is not usurious to
exact the payment of interest in advance. .Mitc]ellv _yman,
77 Illinois, 525, Goodrich v Reynolds, 31 Illinois, 490; .ic Gill
v Ware, 4 Scammon, 21. One per cent on $4500 (the amount
borrowed) for five years makes just $225, and so,-in any view,
interest has not been exacted beyond the rate of ten per cent
per annum - the then legal rate." So in .JcGovern v Urnon
_Mutuazl Life IA~s. Co., 109 Illinois, 151, 156 "When this loan
was made the legal rate of interest was ten per cent per
annum, when the contract provided for this amount. The
loan in this case was for three years at nine per cent interest.
Now the three per cent commissions only amounted to one
per cent per annum, so that if the commissions are regarded
as interest, and added to the interest at nine per cent provided
for in the note, the rate would still be only ten per cent, and
-notusurious."

The loan was not, therefore, infected with usury, unless the
provision in the trust deed providing for the payment by the
borrower, in addition to ordinary costs, of a reasonable solicitor's fee, not exceeding five per cent, for collection, in the
event of a suit to foreclose. But it is the law of Illinois that
a provision of that character does not, of itself, make the contract usurious. In Barton v Farmers' & Merchants' NAat.
Bank, 122 Illinois, 352, 355, it was said "If enforcing this
promise to pay an attorney's fee would directly or indirectly
have the effect of giving the payee, or of requiring the payor
to pay, a greater compensation for the loan, use or forbearance of the money than is allowed by law, then, unquestionably, the corltract would be usurious. The law will not tolerate
any shift or device to evade its provisions.
By the
statute, all plnalties, whether as additional interest or as compensation for vpD rise of the money, are prohibited, but where,
as here, no additioimal or new compensation is provided for,
and the contract is only for such sum as the payee would be
obliged to expend in compelling the maker to perform his
undertaking, the statute contains no inhibition upon the power
of the parties to contract that the same shall be paid by the

HICKMAN v. FORT SCOTT.
Syllabus.

party whose default occasions the necessity for the expenditure." Again "Upon the question whether contracts of this
nature are void as against public policy, this court as well as
those of other States is also fully committed.
The
Tight of the parties to thus contract has been expressly recogized, and when the contract has been for such reasonable
.attorney's fees only as would indemnify and preserve the
payee from loss, and was due at the tnme of suit brought, this
court has in every case sustained the plaintiff's right of recovery Nor do we see anything in the section of the statute
quoted that would change the rule." See also Clawson v
.3unson, 55 Illinois, 394, 3917, Haldeman v .fass. .utual Life
Ins. Co., 120 .Illinois, 390, 393, Teford v Garrels, 132 Illinols, 550, 555, XvclTntie v Yates, 104: Illinois, 491, 503.
The only question of any difficulty is whether the fee stipalated was not excessive. But as the character and extent of
the services performed by the plaintiff's attorney were best
known to the court below, and in the absence of any evidence
as to whether the fee was reasonable, considering the amount
involved, and the nature of the services rendered, we are not
prepared to reverse the decree because of the allowance to the
plaintiff of an attorney's fee which does not exceed the highest sum fixed in the deed of trust.
We find no error in the decree to the prejudice of the appellants, and it is
_________Aflrmed.

HICK[AN v. FORT SCOTT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF
No.10. Argued October 13, 1891.-

STATES

FOR

THE

KANSAS.
Decided October 26,1891.

An application by petition to a court of law, after its judgment has been
reversed and a different judgment directed to be entered, to so change
the record of the original judgment as to make a casematerially different
from that presented to the court of review,-there being no clerical
mistake, and nothing having been- omitted from the record of the ori,-i
inal action which the court intended to make a matter of record - was

