.$41

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

GAGE v. BANI.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 20. Submitted January 29, 1891.-Decided October 26, 1891.
Where atax deed in Illinois is relied on as evidence of paramount title, it
As indispensable that it be supported by a valid judgment for the taxes,
and a proper precept authorizing the sale.
It is well settled in that State that a tax title is purely technical, and depends upon a strict compliance with the statute; and that the giving of
the particular notice required by the statute is an indispensable condition precedent to the right to make a deed to the purchaser or his assignee.
The owner of land in Illinois, sold for the non-payment of taxes, or of
special assessments, is entitled to be informed in the statutory notice
whether the sale was for the non-payment of a tax, or of such an assessment; and a notice which informs him that the sale was made "for
taxes and special assessments, authorized by the laws of the State of
Illinois" is a defective notice.
The right of an occupant of land in Illinois, sold for the non-payment of
taxes or special assessments, to personal notice of the fact of sale, before
the time of redemption expires, is expressly given by the Constitution
of Illinois, and is fundamental. and upon a direct issue whether such
notice was given, the owner testifying that he did not receive notice,
the evidence should be clear and convincing that it was given as required
by .law, before the tax title can be held to be paramount.

THE court stated the case as follows:
The appellee Barn, claiming to be the owner in fee, and
being in the actual possession, of lots 12 and 13 in block 2
of Lewis Heintz's subdivision of twenty-four acres in the town
-of Lake, Cook County, Illinois, brought this suit, December 6, 1883, for a decree setting aside and declaring void
three several tax deeds, covering those lots, and which were
held by the defendant Asahel Gage.
It was alleged in the bill that the plaintiff derived title by
warranty deed from Peter Caldwell and wife, of date May 15,
18$2, the consideration being $3000, that his -purchase was
without notice of any adverse claim or title, that from the

GAGE v. BANI.
Statement of the Case.

27th day of April, 1868; until such purchase, Caldwell was the
owner in iee of the premises, with a complete title deducible of record, and in actual and continued possession, under
claim and color of title, paying taxes thereon for a period of
more than seven years; and that prior to his purchase, to wit,
on the 27th of March, 1880, the plaintiff 'took possession, as
CaldwelPs tenant, and in that capacity occupied the premises
up to the date of the deed to him, thereafter holding and
occupying them as owner, under claim and color of title, paying all taxes and assessments legally made thereon.
The tax deeds held by Gage, against which the bill was particularly aimed, were dated, respectively, July 3, 1880, June
430, 1880 and July 6. 1880. The one of July 3, 1880, was based
upon a judgment of the county court, at its July term, 1877,
for the amount of the third instalment of a special assessment,
warrant 36, assessed by authority of the town of Lake, which,
with interest and costs, amounted to $6.98, the one of June
S0, 1880, upon a judgment for the fifth instalment of South
Park assessment for the year 1876, amounting, with interest
and costs, to $3.38, and the one of July 6, 1880, upon a judgment for State, county and city taxes for 1876, amounting,
with interest and costs, to $16.88.
The bill also alleged that the plaintiff having learned for
the first time in March, 1883, of these tax deeds, immediately
offered to pay any sum reasonably necessary to cover all expended by Gage for taxes, costs and disbursements, together
with interest and penalties, if a quit-&laim deed was made to
him, and that Gage refused such offer, pretending that the
lots belonged to him.
The plaintiff, after setting out numerous grounds upon
which he assailed the validity of these tax sales and deeds
and renewing his offer to reimburse the defendant for all
sums paid on account of taxes and assessments upon the prop.erty, with damages and penalties, prayed that the tax deeds,
which were fair upon their face, be declared void, and decreed
to be surrendered for cancellation.
The defendant pleaded in bar of the suit that on the 24th
of July, 1876, the county clerk of Cook County, under the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of,the Case.

visions of chapter 120 of the Revised Statutes ot Illinois, executed and delivered a tax deed conveying to him, his heirs
and assigns forever, the title to the lots in the bill mentioned,
and that afterwards, on the 3d day of August, 1876, that deed
was filed for record and recorded in the proper office.
This plea was held to be insufficient, and the defendant,
with leave of the court, filed an answer relying, in support of
his claim to the lots, on the tax deed of July 24, 1876, as well
as upon "divers other good and sufficient tax deeds, all of
which are duly recorded in the recorder's office of Cook County
aforesaid, and are matters of public record, each -of which is
based -upon a valid judgment and precept." The answer
made no express reference to the deeds of July 3, June 30,
and July 6, 1880.
The plaintiff having paid into court the sum of $150 for the
defendant on account of tax sales, costs and disbursements,
taxes and interest, it was adjudged that he was the owner in
fee of the lots in question, and that the tax sales and deeds,
under which the defendant claimed title, were void.
By the statutes of Illinois, in force when the sales were made,
upon which the tax deeds in question were based (Rev Stats.
1889, title Re 7enue, pp. 1145, 1146) it was among other things,
provided
"SEc. 216. Hereafter no purchaser or assignee of such purchaser of any land, town or city lot, at any sale of lands or
lots, for taxes or special assessments due either to the State or
any county or incorporated town or city within the same, or at
any sale for taxes or levies authorized by the laws of this State,
shall be entitled to a deed for the lands or lots so purchased,
until the following conditions have been complied with, to wit
Such purchaser or assignee shall serve, or cause to be served,.
'a written or printed, or partly written and partly printed,
notice of such purchase on every person in actual possession or
occupancy of such land or lot, and also the person in whose
name the same was taxed or specially assessed, if upon diligent
inquiry he or she can be found in the county, also the owners
of or parties interested in said land or lot, if they can, upon
diligent inquiry, be found in the county, at least three months

GAGE v. BANIL
Statement of the Case.

before the expiration of the time of redemption on. such sale,
in which notice he shall state when be purchased the land or
lot, in whose name taxed, the description of the land or lot
he has purchased, for what year taxed or specially assessed,
and when the time of redemption will expire. If no person is
in actual possession or occupancy of such land or lot, and the
person in whose name the same was taxed or specially assessed,
upon diligent inquiry, cannot be found in the county, then such
person or his assignee shall publish such notice in some newspaper printed m such county, and if no newspaper is printed
in the county, then in the newspaper that is published in this
State nearest to the county seat of the county in which such
land or lot is situated, which notice shall be inserted three
times, the first time not more than five months, and the last
time not less thar three months before the time of redemption
shall expire.
"SEC. 217. Every such purchaser or assignee, by himself or
agent, shall, before he shall be entitled to a deed, make an
affidavit of his having complied with the conditions of the
foregoing section, stating particularly the facts relied on as
such compliance- which affidavit shall be delivered to the
person authorized by law to execute such tax deed, and which
shall by him be filed with the officer having custody of the
record of the lands and lots sold for taxes and entries of redemption in the county where such lands or lots shall lie, to
be by such officer entered upon the records of his office, and
carefully preserved among the files of his office, and which record or affidavit shall be pmafacze evidence that such notice
has been give.
Any person swearing falsely in such affidavit
shall be deemed guilty of perjury, and punished accordingly"
"SEC. 219. At any time after the expiration of two years
from date df sale of any real estate for taxes or special assessments, if the same shall not have been redeemed, the county
clerk, on request, and on the production of the certificate of
purchase, and upon compliance with the three preceding sections, shall execute and deliver to the purchaser, his heirs or
assigns, a deed of conveyance for the real estate described in
such certificate."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 225. Unless the holder of the certificate for real estate
purchased at any tax sale under this act takes out the deed, as
entitled by law, and files the same for record, within one year
irom and after the time for redemption expires, the said certificate or deed, and the sale on which it is based, shall, from
and after the expiration of such one year, be absolutely null.
If the holder of such certificate shall be prevented from obtaining such deed by injunction or order of any court, or by
the refusal of the clerk to execute the same, the time he is so
prevented shall be excluded from the computation of such
time. Certificates of purchase and deeds executed by the
county clerk shall recite the qualifications required in this
section."

These regulations were established in obedience to the 5th
section of article 9 of the constitution of Illinois of 1870, providing- "The right of redemption from all sales of real estate
for the non-payment of taxes or special assessments of any
character whatever, shall exist in favor of owners and persons
interested in such real estate, for a period of not less than two
years from such sales thereof. And the General Assembly
shall provide by law for reasonable notice to be given to the
owners and parties interested, by publication or otherwise, of
the fact of the sale of the property for such taxes or assessments, ana when the time of redemption shall expire Pro-v ed, That occupants shall in all cases be served with personal
notice before the time of redemption expires."
.Ak Augustus -Y Gage for appellant.
_Mr Levy, 8prague for appellee.

MR. JUsTicE HARLAN, after stating the facts as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not necessary to consider whether the defendant's plea
was or was not sufficient, for the facts alleged in it, namely,
the execution by the county clerk to Gage of the tax deed of
July 24, 1876, and the recording of that deed, are restated
and relied on in the answer, and no objection was made in

GAGE v. BANI.
Opinion of the Court.

the court below to the answer upon the ground that it set u
the same matter presented by the plea. Story's Eq. P1. ยง 688.
In respect to that tax deed, it appears that the sale upon
which it was based was made August 29, 1873. Did Gage
serve or cause to be served upon Caldwell notice of that sale
as required by the statute2 The notice, presented to the
county clerk at the time of the application for a deed, and
which Gage claimed was served August 14, 1874, upon Caldwell, personally, was as follows "To whom it may concern.
This is to notify you that on the 29th day of August, 1873,
Henry H. Gage purchased, and afterwards assigned the certificate of purchase to the undersigned, at a sale of lots and
lands for taxes and special assessments authorized by the laws
of the State of Illinois, the following-described real estate,
taxed in the name of Peter Caldwell, to wit [Here follows a
description of various lots, including those here in dispute] said taxes and special assessments were levied for the year
1872- and that the time of redemption thereof from said sale
will expire on the 29th day of August, 1875. ASAHEL GAGE."
It is plain, upon the face of the statute, that a purchaser at
a sale for taxes or specal assessment is r,t entitled to a deed
until the conditions prescribed by section 216 are met, one of
those conditions being that the notice required to be served by
the purchaser or his assignee on every person in actual possession or occupancy of the land or lot sold, and upon the person
in w'hose name the same was taxed or specially assessed, if
upon diligent inquiry he can be found in the county, "shall
state when he purchased the land or lot, in whose name taxed,
the description of the land or lot he has purchased, for w\hat
year taxed or specially assessed and when the time of redemption will expire." The notice that Gage claimed was served
on Caldwell is radically defective in that it did not shotv
whether the sale was for taxes or special assessments. It
stated that the sale of 1873 was "for taxes and special assessments." This precise question has been determined by the
Supreme Court of Illinois. In Gage v Waterman, 121 Illinois,
115, 118, the court said "It might be of consequence to the
land owner to know whether his property was sold for a tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opmion of the Court.

or special assessment. This notice did not afford that information.' In Stillwell v Bramme2, 124 Illinois, 338, 345, the
notice was of a "sale of lands, town and city lots, made purfor the delinquent taxes and special
suant to law
assessments levied for the year 1880." The court held this
notice to be materially defective, saying- "There is a difference between a tax and a special assessment. The notice
above quoted fails to inform the land owner whether his property was sold for a tax or a special assessment. It was, therefore, defective under the ruling made in Gage v. Waterman,
121 Illinois, 115. The title to be made under a tax deed is
one strwcjuns."
So in Gage v Dams, 129 Illinois, 236, 239, where one of the
questions was as to the validity of a notice given by the assignee of a purchaser "at a sale of lots and lands for taxes
and special assessments, authorized by the laws of the State
said taxes and assessments were levied for
of Illinois
the year 1872," etc., the court said "The notice above quoted
fails to state whether the lots were taxed or specially assessed.
It does not inform the owner whether his lots were sold for a
tax or special assessment. It merely tells him that his lots
were sold at a general sale of lots and lands for taxes and special assessments levied for the year 1872. The words, ' said
taxes and assessments were levied for the year 1872,' refer
back to and define the sale at which the lots in question were
sold, but such words cannot be construed to mean that the
- lots were sold on September 13, 1872, for both taxes and special assessments."
This view is not at all affected by section 224 of the above
statute, declaring that deeds executed by the county clerk
shall be prsmacze evidence in all controversies and suits in
relation to the right of the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, of
the following facts That the real estate conveyed was subject
to taxation at the time it was assessed, and had been listed
and assessed at the time and in the manner required by law,
that the taxes or special assessments were not paid before the
sale, that the estate conveyed had not been redeemed at the
(late of the deed, was advertised for sale in the manner and

GAGE v. BANIL
Opinion of the Court.

for the length of time required, and sold for taxes or special
assessments, as stated in the deed, that the grantee was the
purchaser or assignee of the purchaser, and that the sale was
-conducted in the manner required by law It has been uniformly held, notwithstanding this section, that where a tax
-deed is relied on as evidence of paramount title, it is indispensable that it be supported by a valid judgment for the taxes
and a proper precept authorizing the sale. holbrook v. Dzckznson, 46 Illinois. 285, Gage v. Lightburn, 93 Illinois, 248,
252, Pardmdge v. Village of Hyde Park, 131 Illinois, 537,
541. So it must appear that the purchaser at the tax sale or
his assignee made the affidavit required by section 217 as to
the service of notice of the tax sale. Smi-th v llutchznson,
108 Illinois, 662, 667, Gage v Caraher,125 Illinois, 44T, 454.
And when the notice is produced, the question is necessarily
open as to whether it was such as section 216 prescribed, before
the purchaser is entitled to a deed from the county clerk. The
settled doctrine of the Supreme Court of Illinois is that a tax
title is purely technical, and depends upon a strict compliance
with the statute. Altes v Binckler, 36 Illinois, 265, 267,
3farsh v Chesnut, 14 Illinois, 223, Charles v Waugh, 35 Illinois, 315, 323, Wisner v. Chamberlin, 117 Illinois, 568, 580;
Chalpell v Spire, 106 Illinois, 472, 475, Stillwell v Brammell,
124 Illinois, 338, 345. It is as firmly settled that the giving
of the particular notice required is an indispensable condition
precedent to the right to make a deed to the purchaser or
assignee.
Gage v. Bailey, 100 Illinois, 530, 536, Gage v
Schmidt, 104 Illinois, 106, 109, Gage v. Herrey, 111 Illinois,
305, 308, Gage v. ZJXayer, 117 Illinois, 632, 636.
As the notice of the sale of 1873 was not in conformity
with the statute, Gage was not entitled to the deed of July,
24, 1876, and it is void.
The first of the deeds held by Gage which is referred to in the
bill is that of July 3,1880. One of the contentions of the plaintiff is that, even if there were a valid judgment and precept for
the sale, that deed was issued without authority of law The
county clerk issued it upon the showing made by the following papers 1. A notice of the tax sale, dated Chicago, April

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

21, 22 and 23, 1879, given by Asahel Gage, addressed "To
the owners or parties interested in the following described
lands and lots, and to the persons in whose names they were
taxed or specially assessed, and to whom it may concern," and
published in the Chicago Daily Evening Journal on those
days. That document gave notice of the purchase by Asahel
Gage of the lots here in dispute, on the 8th day of August,
1877, at a sale "for taxes and special assessments authorized
by and levied or assessed in compliance with the laws of the
State of Illinois," and "taxed or specially assessed for the year
1874 for the third instalment of special assessment number 36
of the town of Lake, and the time of redemption of said land or
lots from said sale will expire on the 8th day of August, 1879."
The fact of the publication of that notice is supported by the
affidavit of the publisher of the paper referred to. 2. An affidavit of the agent and attorney of the purchaser, in which,
after setting out the above notice and its publication in the
newspaper, he states that "Asahel Gage served or caused to be
served written or printed or partly written and partly printed
notices of purchase at said tax sale, as in other affidavits hereto
attached more fully set forth, on every person in actual possession or occupancy of such land or lots, and also the person in
whose name the same were taxed or specially assessed, if upon
diligent inquiry they could be found in said county, and a reasonable notice was given to the owners or parties interested in
said land or lots at least three months before the expiration of
the time of redemption on such sale, and that said notices
stated when he purchased the land or lots, in whose names
taxed, the description of the land or lots he has purchased, for
what yiar taxed or specially assessed, and when the time of
redemption will expire. And this affiant says that he has
compared the affidavits hereto attached with the orignalmemoranda of serice of.te respective parties making t.esame, and
that the same are correct according to the ortgznal memoranda
of servce as aforesa-id." This affidavit states, generally, that
Asahel Gage caused a reasonable notice to be given to the
owners or parties interested, by publication or otherwise, of
the fact of the sale of the property described in the notice

GAGE v. BANI.
Opinion of the Court.

attached for the taxes or assessments therein described, and
when the time of redemption would expire, and complied
with all the provisions of the constitution and laws of the
State of Illinois to entitle him to a deed or deeds of conveyance. 3. Affidavit of Charles P Westerfield, made July
15th, 1879, in which he describes himself, as agent of Asahel
Gage, and states that on the 5th day of December, 1878,
he served upon Peter Caldwell and Ann Caldwell, his wife,
"by handing the same to and leaving the same wzathe sazd
Ann Caldwell personally," a copy of the notice annexed to
his affidavit, that "the persons so served were the only persons in actual possession or occupancy of said land or lots
[the premises in dispute] at least three months before the expiration of the time of redemption," and that said lands or
lots were taxed or specially assessed in the name of "P Caldwell and Peter Caldwell." 4. Affidavit of one Bunker, made
July 15th, 1879, describing himself and stating that he, as
agent of Gage, "on the dates mentioned in the foregoing affidavit, accompanied, was present with and witnessed Charles
the several places as menP Westerfield, on the qates and P.t
tioned in the foregoing affidavit, serve the notices above mentioned on the.persons mentioned in the above affidavit," and
that "a copy of the annexed notice was served upon the said
persons at the times, places and in the manner and form as
stated above." 5. Affidavit of Charles P Westerfield, made
July 15, 1879, describing himself as agent of Asahel Gage, and
stating that, as such agent, he served, April 4, 1879, upon Peter
Caldwell, personally, a copy of the notice which was annexed.
6. Affidavit of U. George Taylor, in the precise words of Bunker's affidavit, except that Taylor states the service which he,
as agent of Gage, witnessed, occurred on the 4th of April, 1879.
7. One of the notices, annexed to the above affidavits, was
addressed. "To whom it may concern," stated the purchase by
Gage, on the 8th day of August, 1877, "at a sale of lots and
lands for taxes and special assessments authorized by the laws
of the State of Illinois, taxed in the name of P Caldwell," of
the lots m controversy "taxe t or specially assessed for the year
1874 for the third instalment of special assessment num er 36
VOL. cxLI-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of the town of Lake, and that the time of redemption thereof
from said sale will expire on the 8th day of August, 1879."
The other notice differed from the first one only in stating
that the lots and lands sold were taxed in the names of P
Caldwell and Peter Caldwell. 8. Certificates of sale of the
two lots in dispute to Asahel Gage.
In consideriffg whether the purchaser was entitled, upon the
showing made by him, to the deed of July 3, 1880, we give no
weight to the notice published in the newspaper. โข The right of
the purchaser or his assignee to give notice, in that mode, of
the tax sale, existed only when no person was in actual possession or occupancy of the property sold, and the person in
whose name it was taxed or specially assessed could not, upon
diligent inquiry, be found in the county - a condition of
things which is not pretended to have existed after 1868 up to
the execution of the deeds in question. Nor do we attach any
value to the affidavit of Westerfield, made July 15, 1879, as to
the service on the 5th of December, 1878, because that service
was upon Peter Caldwell, by handing the notice to his wife,
and that is not stated to have been done in the presence of the
husband. The statute provides for service upon every person
in actual possession or occupancy of the land, and also upon
the persons in whose name it is taxed. If it be proper or necessary, under any circumstances, to serve notice of the sale
upon the wife where .he husband owns and occfipies the land,
and it is taxed in his name, no such circumstances are disclosed in the present case.
As to the notice which Westerfield claimed to have served
on Caldwell, April 4, 1879, it is doubtful, under the decisions
above cited, whether the obscurity arising from the words, in
each notice, "taxes and special assessments' and "taxed or
specially assessed," is removed by the use of the words "for
the third instalment of special assessment number 36 .of the
-town of Lake." But waiving that question, we are not prepared to hold that the decree is erroneous so far as it sustains
the plaintiff's contentiont that there was in fact no service on
Caldwell of notice of the tax sale and of Gage's purchase.
Caldwell testifies that he was not at any time, to his knowl-

GAGE v. BANL
Opinion of the Court.

edge, served With notice of the tax sales of these particular
lots. The witness relied on to prove the contrary is Westerfield. He states in his deposition, taken November 29, 1884,
but not in the presence of the plaintiff or of his attorney, and,
so far as the record shows, without notice to either, that on
the 4th day of April, 1879 - more than five years before he
gave the deposition - he served a notice of the tax sale of
this property personally on Peter Caldwell and wife. It is
difficult to believe that he could have remembered, at the time
he testified in November, 1884, the particular day in the spring
of 1879 when he served such a notice, unless his memory-was
refreshed by some memorandum made at the time by him or
in his presence. But he does not state that he made, or that
he ever saw, any such memorandum. The deposition of Caldwell was given before that of Westerfield, and it behooved
the defendant to show, if he could do so, that when Westerfield gave the 4th of April, 1879, as the date of the service of
the notice on Caldwell he was not guessing or giving merely
his impressions. But Westerfield was not asked whether he
ever, made, or saw, any memorandum of the date of service,
nor did he state how he was able, apparently without hesitation or doubt, to fix the exact day of such service nearly six
years before giving his deposition. It may be that Westerfield based his statement upon the affidavit made by him on
the 15th day of July, 1879. But that affidavit was not made
contemporaneously with the alleged service, and is one showimug service only on"Peter Caldwell, whereas in his deposition
he testified that the service on the 4th of April, 1879, was on
both Caldwell and wife.
In this connection there are some circumstances that are
not without interest. Taylor made an affidavit in support of
Gage's application for the deed, stating that he, also, was an
agent of Gage, was present "on the date and at the place as
mentioned" in Westerfield's affidavit, and witnessed the service of the notice upon Caldwell "in the manner and form"
as stated by Westerfield. A witness so clear in his recollection, being one of the numerous -agents whom Gage seemed to
have had in this business, ought to have been required to give

OCTOBER TERIA1, 1891
Opinion of the Court.

his deposition, or some reason should have been given why he
was not produced as a witness. Of course, the defendant
knew that ex _parte affidavits, filed to procure a deed, would
not be conclusive evidence in a suit between the owner of the
land and the holder of the tax title in respect to the notice of
the tax sale.
There is another circumstance not without weight. The
agent and attorney of Gage, in his affidavit in support of the
application for a deed, stated that there were then in existence
"the original memoranda of service of the respective parties
making the same," and that the affidavits of Westerfield,
Bunker and Taylor were correct according to such memoranda. He based that statement upon a comparison by himself of the affidavits with the memoranda. But he does not
testify in the case as a witness, although he knew that Cald-ell, under oath, had denied service of notice as to the sale of
the particular lots here in dispute.. And no such original
memoranda appear upon the notice returned.. If such memoranda were made by Westerfield, or in his presence contemporaneously with the service of the notice, and the court was
informed by the record that the statement in his deposition
were made, after his recollection had been .refreshed by examining them, there would be ground to contend that Caldwell's statement was incorrect.
There is still another difficulty in the way of the defendant.
Caldwell having testified that he did not receive any notice
of the tax sale, and Westerfield being afterwards called as a
witness to show notice, there was no distinct reference by the
latter to the notice filed by Gage with the county clerk.
Being asked whether "in the spring, on or about the 4th of
April, 1879," he "served a notice of the tax sales of this
property upon Peter Caldwell," he replied "On the 4th day
of April I served a notice personally on Peter baldwell and
wife." Now what notice was this q The statute required that
the notice should state certain facts, and that the affidavit
should state "particularly the facts relied on" as showing
compliance with the statute. Did the notice to which Westerfield refers in his deposition meet these requirements? He

GAGE v. BAN.
Opinion of the Court.

does not so state. Was that notice the same as the one
referred to in his affidavit of July 15, 1879 2 We cannot tell
from the record. In determining the weight to be given to
Westerfield's deposition, upon the issue as to whether notice
was in fact given to Caldwell, that deposition is not to be supplemented by his ex pcrte affidavit used in supporting Gage's
application for a deed, and to which in his deposition he makes
no reference whatever. So that upon the issue as to notice of
the tax sale there is no proof whatever in this case in conflict
with the statement of Caldwell, except the prza fa e evidence furnished by the ex _xarte affidavit of Westerfield made
July 15, 1879.
Under all the circumstances disclosed by the record, we are
not prepared to say that the court below erred if it proceeded
-upon the ground, as it may well have done, that the proof
failed to show satisfactorily, or with sufficient certainty, such
notice by the purchaser, or his assignee, as the statute required
before he could receive a deed. The right of an occupant of
land, sold for the non-payment of taxes or special assessments,
to personal notice of the fact of sale before the time of redemption expires, is expressly given by the constitution of Illinois,
and is fundamental. And upon a direct issue as to whether
such notice was given -the owner testifying that he did not
receive notice -the evidence should be clear and convincing
that it was given, as required by law, before the tax title is
held to be paramount.
The case as to the-deeds of June 30, 1880, and July 6, 1880,
is substantially the same as that made in relation to the deed
-of July 3, 1880. What has been said in reference to the lastnamed deed applies to the other two.
Other questions involving the validity of the tax title have
been discussed in the briefs of counsel. But, in view of the
conclusions reached, they need not be examined.
Deoree affirmed.

