PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. -EATON.
Statement of the Case.

fault of the Iron Works.

An instruction like that asked was

misleading and improper.
It is obvious, from these considerations, that the proceedings in this court were for delay Under clause 2 of Rule 23
of this court,
It 's ordered zn -No. 356, a supersedeas bond havng been
given, that the judgment be ajflrmed and that ten per cent
damages, 2n addition, to 'nterest, be awarded. In No.
357, as ths court has no-jumsdiction by writ of error over
the proceedings, all we can do ss to dismzss the case, and
such s the order

PAOIFIO NATIONAL BANK v. R>ATON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
Neo239.

Argued March 23,24,1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

-Delano v. Butler, 118 U. S. 634, and Aspinwall v. Butler, 133 U. S. 595, affirmed
and applied to a case where a shareholder in the bank, having subscribed
her proportional share to the doubling of its capital and paid therefor,
took out no certificate for the new stock and demanded back the money
so paid.
A subscription to stock in a national bank, and payment in full on the subscription and entry.of the subscriber's name on the books as a stockholder, constitutes the subscriber a shareholder without taking out a
certificate.

THiS. was an action at law to recover from the Pacific
National Bank an amount paid in as a subscription to .an
increase of its stock. The circumstances which induced the
call for the increase are stated fully in Delano v Butler, 118
U. S. 634, and Aspznwall v Butler, 133 U. S. 595. The plaintiff below, (defendant in error,) owning forty shares of $100
each, subscribed for an equal amount in the proposed increase of
$500,000, and paid in the money Owing to the fact that some
stockholders declined to take the new stock, the actual amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

of increase subscribed was $461,300, and, after the plaintiff's
payment of the $4000, an increase to that amount only was
approved by the comptroller in lieu of the $500,000 previously
authorized. The plaintiff below, not having taken out any
certificate of stock, demanded repayment of the $4000, and,
the same being refused, brought this action, and obtained
judgment for laat amount, interest and costs. The bank having become insolvent, the action was defended by the receiver,
who sued out this writ of error.
I& A. A. Ranney for plaintiff in error.
.1

J HI. Benton, Jr'., for defendant in error.

The decision of the state court that the bank received the
money of the defendant in error upon an implied promise to
give her forty shares in an increase of five thousand shares
was correct. An increase of the capital of a national bank
depends on compliance with the conditions of the statutes and
articles of association, and not upon an arrangement between
the bank and its shareholders or other persons. Rev Stat.
ยง 5142, C]7arlestonv People's Nat. Banke, 5 So. Car. 103, 115.
The payment by the defendant on the 1st of October was
an acceptance of this offer, and created a contract between
her and the bank, by which it promised -to issue to her forty
shares of such five thousand new shares, if the whole five
thousand were subscribed and paid for and the comptroller
approved their issue, and by which she promised the bank to
take forty shares of such proposed increase of five thousand
shares, if the whole five thousand were subscribed and the
comptroller approved their issue, .e., if such five thousand
shares were created. Sprvng Company v. Knowlton, 103
U. S. 49.
It was upon this implied contract to issue and to take forty
-shares of stock in the proposed increase of five thousand
shares, if such shares were created, that the defendant paid to
the banlk four thousand dollars. If the whole five thousand
shares were not subscribed and paid for, or if the comptroller

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. EATON.

229-.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

refused to approve their issue, no such shares as were paid for
could be created, and the bank was under no obligation to
issue any shares to her, and it necessarily follows that unless
the whole five thousand shares were subscribed and paid for,
and the comptroller approved the issue of them, she was under
no obligation to take forty shares of any other increase which
might be voted, subscribed and paid for and approved.
The attempted application by the bank of her money to the
payment for forty shares in an increase of forty-six hundred
and thirteen shares, instead of the payment for forty shares in
an increase of five thousand shares, was really an attempt to
make her take forty-three shares, when she had only agreed
to take forty People's IFerry Co. v Balch, 8 Gray, 303, 314,
Katam, -Land Co. v Jernegan, 126 Mass. 155.
It is too plain for contention that no shares in a proposed
increase of the capital of a national bank can come into existence till the whole amount thereof is paid. Such is the plain
reading of the statute. "Nb increase shall be valid until the
whole amount of such increase is paid in." If this were a case
of subscription to original capital under a charter which provided that no capital stock shall be issued until the whole
amount of the capital has been subscribed for, the authorities
are uniform that a subscription for shares would not be binding until the whole amount of the capital was subscribed.
Santa Cruz Railroad Co. v Schwartz, 53 California, 106,
Bray v Farwell, 81 N. Y 600, NTew York, JHousatonc, etc.
Railroad Co. v Hunt, 39 Connecticut, 75, Read v 3_femphms
Gayoso Gas Co., 9 Heiskell, 545, Fry v. Lexngtom etc. Railroad
Co., 2 Met. (Ky.) 314, 323, Shurtz v Schoolraft & Three
Rivers Railroad Co., 9 Michigan, 269, Swartwout v .fichigan
Asr Line Railroad Co., 24 Michigan, 388, Livesey v Omaha
Hotel Co., 5 Nebraska, 50, Hale v. Sanborn, 16 Nebraska, 1,
Selma, .farwn, etc. Railroad Co. v Anderson, 51 Mississippi,
829, Rughes v Antietam K-fg. Co., 34 Maryland, 316, Topeka
Brndge Co. v. Cummngs, 3 Kansas, 55, -Littleton .fg. Co.
v Parker,14 N. H=.543, .New nampsh-tre Central Railroad
v Johnson, 30 N. H. 390; S. C. 64 Am. Dec. 800, Contoocook
T-alley Railroad Co. v Barker, 32 N. H. 363, Peorna& Rock

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Island Railroad v. Preston,35 Iowa, 115, H7askell v Worthvngton, 94 Missouri, 560, Sommerset & Xennesec Railroadv
CushIng, 45 Maine, 524, Sommerset Railroad Co. v Clarke,
61 Maine, 379, Jewett v Valley Railroad Co., 34 Ohio St.
601 to 607, IVinters v. Armstrong, 37 Fed. Rep. 508, Wontner v Shatrp,, 4 0. B. 404, 441, Pilehford et al. v. _Davis,
5 M. & W 1 ,-Allman v Havana,Rantoul & Eastern Railroad Co., 88 Illinois, 521, Hendrux v Academy of .A-Mus, 73
Georgia, 437, Salem .Milldam, Corpworation v. RVes, 6 Pick.
23, JKatama Land Co. v Jernegan,126 Mass. 155.
Mr.

JuSTicE

BRADLEy delivered the opinion of the court.

This case belongs to the same group as -Delano v. Butler
(118 U S. 634) and Aspznwall v. Butler (133 U. S. 595). It
relates to qertain shares of the ihcreased stock of the Pacific
National Bank of Boston issued in September, 1881. The
circumstances under which said stock was created and subscribed are detailed in the reports of the cases referred to, and
need not be repeated here. It will suffice to state those which
are peculiar to the present case, only adverting td such others
as may be necessary to understand it. On September 13, 1881,
the capital'stock of the bank was $500,000, and on that day
the directors voted that the capital be increased to $1,000,000,
and that the stockholders have the right to take the new stock
at 'par, in equal amounts to that then held by them. Subscriptions to the new stock were payable October 1, 1881.
Mary J Eaton, the defendant m error, having forty shares
(equal to $4000) of the original stock, took her full share of
the new stock, and paid for it September 28, 1881, and received
the following receipt therefor"
"Pacific National Bank,
Sep. 28,
"BosTox, October 1st, 1881.
"Received of Mary .. Eaton four thousand dollars on 'account of subscription to new stock.
"$4000.

"1J

M.

PETTENGILL, Caskzer"

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

The stockholders of the bank did not all avail themselves of
the right to take new stock, but $461,300 of the $500,000 were
taken and paid in. At the request of the directors, with the
sanction of a large majority of the stockholders, the increase
of stock was afterwards limited to the said sum paid in, and
approved by the comptroller of the currency, who made and
executed his certificate to that effect. Certificates for the new
stock were made out in a book, with stubs to indicate their
contents, and were delivered to the stockholders as they called
for them. Such a certificate was made out for Miss Eaton,
but she never called for it, though she was registered in the
stock register of the bank as owner -thereof without her
knowledge.
The statement of facts, amongst other things, has the following
"No certificate of stock in said proposed increase of capital
in the amount of five hundred thousand dollars was made by
the bank, nor was any certificate in said claimed increase of
four hundred and sixty-one thousand three hundred dollars
received by or offered to the plaintiff, but when the certificate
from the comptroller, made December 16, was received by the
bank a certificate of forty shares in said claimed increase of
four hundred and sixty-one thousand three hundred dollars
was made by the bank, a copy of which is hereto annexed,
marked 0, which was never called for, taken by, or tendered
to the plaintiff, but still remains in the certificate book, and
she was then registered in the stock register of the bank as the
owner thereof without her knowledge. No certificates in said
claimed increase were ever tendered by the bank to any persons
to whom they. were made, but were delivered to them when
called for. No communication was made to the plaintiff with
reference to said vote of the directors of December 13, or
change in said proposed increase, or said certificate of said
comptroller, or said certificate made to her, and she never
assented to any change in the proposed increase in the, sum of
$500,000.,,
On the 10th of January,-1882, there was held an annual
meeting of the stockholders of the bank for the election of

OCTOBER TER]4 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

directors and other business, at which it was voted, in accordance with an order from the comptroller of the currency, made
under section 5205 of the Revised Statutes, to make an assessnient of 100 per cent upon the shareholders of the bank, pro
rata for the amount of capital stock held by each, the vote
being 5494 shores for the assessment and 55 shares against it.
The defendant in error on the day of the annual meeting, and
before its opening, made the following dqmand upon the bank
in writing, delivered to the directors
"BosToN, January 10, 1882.
"To the Pacific National Bank.
"The conditions upon which you received four thousand
dollars of me on the twenty-eighth day of September, 1881, not
having been performed, I hereby demand repayment of said
four thousand dollars.
" MARY ".
EATON,
"By 5. H. BENTON, JR., Att'y."
She never paid the assessment made on the 10th of January, but on the 14th or March, 1882, she brought this suit in
the Superior Court for the County of Suffolk, to recover back
the four thousand dollars which she had paid for the new
stock. The cause having been removed to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, was tried in May, 1886, and judgment rendered for the plaintiff in May, 1887, a few months
after the decision of this court in the case of Delanov. Butler,
144 Mass. 260, 269. The Supreme Judicial Court in its opinion
drew a distinction between that case and the present. Its
language is as follows:
"The case raises a question which was suggested, but not
decided, in Delano v Butler, 118 U. S. 634. It was there
said 'It will be observed that, without waiting to see what
the future action of the association and the comptroller of the
currency might be on the question of the ultimate amount of
the increased stock, the plaintiff in error paid for his shares
and accepted his certificate. This he did, in legal contemplation, with knowledge of the law which authorized the association and the comptroller of the currency to reduce the amount

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the proposed increase to a less sum than that fixed m the
original proposal of the directors, and such payment and
acceptance of the certificates in accordance therewith might
amount, under such circumstances, on his part, to a waiver of
the right to insist that he should not be hound unless the
whole amount of the proposed increase should be subscribed
:or and paid in, but without insisting upon that point or
deciding it, we think that the subsequent conduct of the plaintiff in error amounts to a ratification.' 118 U. S. 650. In the
present case the plaintiff paid in her money, but did not accept
a certificate of stock."
The court also assumed that the filling of the whole $500,000
of stock was a condition on which the obligation of the subscribers to the new stock to take the same depended. The
latter point was fully considered by us in the case ol Aspznwall v Bvutler, and we held that the filling of the said $500,000
of additional stock was not a condition of the liability of the
subscribers to the new stock, but that the association always
retained the power of reducing the amount of stock, with the
approval of the comptroller of th6 currency It is unnecessary for us to discuss that question again. The defendant in
error was just as much bound by her subscription to the new
stock as if the whole $500,000 had been subscribed and paid
in. The only question to be considered, therefore, is whether
the fact that -the defendant in error did not call for and take
her certificate of stock made any difference as to her status as
a stockholder. We cannot see how it could make the slightest
difference. Her actually going or sending to the bank and
electing to take her share of the new stock, and paying for it
in cash, and receiving a receipt for the same in the form above
set forth, are acts which are fully equivalent to a subscription
to the stock in writing, and the payment of the money therefor. She then became a stockholder. She was properly entered as such on the stock book of the company, and her certificate of stock was made out ready for her when she should
call for it. It was her certificate. She could have compelled
its delivery had it been refused. Whether she called for it or
not was a matter of no consequence whatever in reference to
her rights and duties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

The case is not like that of a deed for lands, which has no
force, and is not a deed, and passes no estate, until it is delivered. In that case everything depends on the delivery But
with capital stock it is different. Without express regulation
to the contraf. , a person becomes a stockholder by subscribing for stock, paying the amount to the company or its proper
officer, and being entered on the stock book as a stockholder.
He may take out a certificate or not, as he sees fit. Millions
of dollars of capital stock are held without any certificate, or,
if certificates are made out, without their ever being delivered.
A certificate is authentic evidence of title to stock, but it is
not the stock itself, nor is it necessary to the existence of the
stock. It certifies to a fact which exists independently of
itself. And an actual subscription is not necessary
There
may be a virtual subscription, deducible from the acts and
conduct of the party
The whole matter with regard to the new stock of the
Pacific Natipnal Bank of Boston was so fully discussed m the
cases of Delano and Aspznwall that it would be a work of
supererogation to prolong this opinion. The judgment of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts is
Revepsed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings,
not 'nconstetent with thi opznon.

THAYER v. BUTLER.
ERRO:R TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTM'CT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 300.

Argued lMarcb 23, 24, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.

Pacific NationalBank. y. Eaton, ante, 227, aflirmed and applied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr- J H. Bentoqi, Jr., for plaintiff in error.

.Ur A. A. Ranney for defendant in error.

