SCHUTZ v. JORDAN.
Statement of the Case.

SOHUTZ v. JORDAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 280. Argued April 1, 2, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.
When goods belonging to one party pass into the possession of another
surreptitiously and without the knowledge of the latter, no contract of
purchase is implied, and if the agent of the latter, who is a party to the
surreptitious transfer, sells the goods and puts the proceeds into his
principal's possession, but without his knowledge, the principal is not
liable in an action for goods sold and delivered, whatever liability he
may be under in an action for money had and received.
When the defence in an action for goods sold and delivered to an agent of
the defendant is a denial that any such sale was made, the burden is on
the plaintiff throughout the case to prove every essential part of the
transaction, including the authority of the alleged agent to make the
alleged purchase in the manner alleged.
'The presumption that a letter properly directed and mailed reached its
destination at the proper time and was duly received by the person to
whom it was addressed is a presumption of fact, subject to control and
limitation by other facts.
THE plaintiffs m error, plaintiffs below, were merchants
doing business in the city of New York. The defendants
were merchants doing business in the city of Boston. The
latter had a large establishment, divided into different departinents, fifty or sixtv in number, with a superintendent in
charge of each, and in the neighborhood of two thousand
employes. The action was on an account for goods sold and
delivered, was commenced in the Supreme Court of New York,
and removed thereafter to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York. The complaint
alleged "At divers times on and between May 7, 1884, and
July 30, 1885, the plaintiffs, at the special instance and request
of the defendants, and at prices agreed upon, sold and delivered to the defendants certain goods, wares and merdhan-dise, amounting in the aggregate, at such agreed prices, to the
sum of thirty-two thousand six hundred and four
dollar.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that the defendants have not paid the same, nor any part
thereof, though due and payable." The answer at some length
developed a defence'which may be briefly stated as follows That the defendants never purchased the goods in question,
that among their various dep)artments was one known as the
"cloak department," which was in charge of one John H.
Hewes, an employe, as supetintendent, that while the superintendents of these various dpartments had general authority
to buy, these defendants, fihding that the stock of goods in
this department was more ,than that desired, directed such
superintendent not to increase the stock; that such direction&
were commumcated to the plaintiffs, that, disregarding such
instructions, they entered into a fraudulent combination with
Hewes, by which they were to ship the goods to the defendants, and that he was to reeeive and distribute them alongside of the other goods in his aepartment. The schemefurther.
contemplated -that by reason of the confidence and powers
vested in Hewes by the defendants, and his management of
the details, payment was to be secured. in the name of the
defendants, and from their funds, though without their knowledge. In other words, the plan as developed was that the.
plaintiffs, finding a general agent of defendants with authority
to purchase, but aware of special iestrictions on that authority,
conspired with him to ignore such restrictions, and in defiancethereof to purchase these goods in defendants' name, and
secure payment therefor out of the funds of the defendants in
their name and without their knowledge. On trial before a.
jury the verdict was for the defendants -in respect to these.
matters, and to the judgment entered thereon the plaintiffs.
sued out this writ. 32 Fed. Rep. 55.
.Ar A. Blumenstiel for plaintiffs m error.
1, The mailing of the invoices was presumptive evidence of
their receipt. Howard v .Daly,61 N. Y 362, 365, Austin v
Holland, 69 N. -Y 571, Huntley v. Whittier, 105 Mass. 391,
.Rosenthal v Walker, 111 U S. 185, Bell v Iycomzng Fire
Ina..o., 19 Hun, 238.

SOHUTZ v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

II. It was the duty of the court to charge the jury as to the
shifting of proof - to inform them that the burden had shifted
to the defendant. Heliman v. lazarus, 12 Abbott N. 0. 19,
24, Ticholls v .- ase, 94 N. Y 160, 164, Seybolt v. _Aew York,
Lake Erse &c. Railroad, 95 N. Y 562, 569, Aurphy v.
Coney Iland & Brooklyn Railroad,36 Hun, 199, Howell v.
Wright, 41 Hun, 167, Gay v. Parpart,106 U. S. 679, lNelson
v Woodru'f 1 Black, 156, Ko-inney v Neil, 1 MciLean, 540.
III. As to the ratification arising -fromthe retention of the
goods and the receipt of the proceeds after knowledge of the
alleged fraud, see Peoples' Bank v National Bank, 101 U. S.
181, 183, Gaines v. .Miller, 111 U. S. 395, Drakely v Gregg,
8 Wall. 242, 267, 3lurray v Bqnnnger, 33 How (Q. Y.) 425,
2Jfeehan v. Forrester,52 N. Y 277, Cobb v. Dows, 10 N. Y.
335.
.'

Nfathantel 21yers for defendant in error.

MR.

JUsTicE B

WER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
On the general merits of the case, it may be observed that
the action is on a contract for goods purchased by defendants.
If no such contract of purchase was in fact made, the verdict
was right, and this, although goods of the plaintiffs were surreptitiously put into the possession of defendants, and the proceeds of sales made thereof by their employes passed into
their hands. While from the fact that goods belonging to one
party pass into the possession of another a contract of purchase
may sometimes be implied, it will not be implied when it appears that such transfer of possession was surreptitious, and
without the knowledge of the latter. A party cannot be compelled to buy property which he does not wish to buy-; andno
trick of the vendor, conspiring with an agent of such party,
by which possession is placed in him, creates on his part a
contract of purchase. Nor is any contract of purchase created,
even if it also appears that, unknown to the party, his agent
who has entered into this wrongful combination has sold the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

property and put the proceeds into his principal's possession.
Whatever liability might exist in an action brought under
those circumstances, for money had and received, no action
will lie for goods sold and delivered. The party is not responsible under a contract and as a purchaser, whatever may be
his liability for the moneys which he has received as the proceeds of the sales. The law in respect to these matters is clear;
nnd the verdict of the jury was fully justified by the testimony
It would be a needless waste of time to develop the various
details of the plan by which the plaintiffs and the agent of the
defendants sought to take the goods of the plaintiffs, put them
in the store of defendants, incorporate them with the general
n,ss of their goods, and secure payment out of the funds of the
defendants without their knowledge. As might be expected,
reliance was placed on the confidence and powers reposed and
vested in Hewes by the defendants, and his familiarity with
the details of their business. The plan worked successfully so
far as regarded the introduction of the goods into the store of
the defendants without their knowledge, but Hew.es was not
so successful in securing payment, so that, after nearly a year
and a quarter, over thirty thousand dollars, according to the
price agreed upon between Hewes and the plaintiffs, for goods
thus transmitted, was still unpaid. It is true that the plaintiffs,
and their agent by whom the arrangement was in the first
instance made, denied the existence of any such arrangement.
Upon this question of fact the verdict of the jury would be
conclusive, and; notwithstandig their denial, the whole conduct of the business, as developed by their own testimony,
makes strongly in favor of the truthfulness of Hewes in respect
to the transaction. The verdict of the jury properly responded
to the testimony
There are several assignments of error, but the conclusions we bav. expressed upon the merits of the controversy
avoid the necessity of referring to most of them. It would
have been obviously improper tO instruct the jury to find a
verdict for the plaintiffs for all or any part of the goods thus
surreptitiously placed in the store of the defendants.
There are two matters, however, which require special notice.

SOHTJTZ v. JORDAN.
Opmion of the Court.

One is as to the instructions respecting the burden of proof.
The court w -*sked by the plaintiffs to charge "The burden
of establishing the defence set up in the answer is upon the
defendants, and such defence being founded upon allegations
of fraud and conspiracy, the same must be proven to the satisfaction of the jury Fraud is never presumed. It -must be
proven by facts which warrant such an inference." This request was refused, and the law was thus laid down
"I have been requested to instruct you as to the burden of
proof.
"As to that I can only say that the burden of proof is on
the plaintiffs to make out their case and make it out all the
way through, that is, in the first plate they must show you
that these goods were sold in the usual course to Mr. Hewes,
acting for the defendants, but if they fail in that, it is for them
to satisfy you that this quantity of goods was so large that the
defendants must have known about it and ratified it by going
right along and selling after they had found out about it, that
is, it is on the plaintiffs to make out their case.
"The fact that the goods got into the establishment of the
defendants or that the goods were received by the carrier which
the defendants authorized to take the goods here in New
York, is made out - there is no question about that, no question in the case but what plaintiffs parted with their goods or
that they got where the defendants are liable for them if they
bought them, there is no question about that. If they make
out that the defendants did buy them, then the defendants
had the goods and are liable for them.
"But that the bargain was a bargain for the sale of these
goods to Mr. Hewes in the usual course of business, it is for
the plaintiffs to make out further, and if they do not make
that out, that the defendants ought to have known that they
were receiving those goods is to be made out by the plaintiffs."
The ruling of the trial court was correct, the burden was
on the plaintiffs, and to the extent indicated in the mstruc
.tions. This is not a case in which some independent matter
is set up as a defence- payment, breach of warranty, counter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

claim, and the like, a defence which practically admits the
plaintiffs' cause of action, and seeks to defeat it by the existence of other facts. It was not like the plea of confession and
avoidance. It was a denial, it denied the sale, and the burden of proving the sale was on the plaintiffs, and rested with
them until the close of the case. It would not establish a purchase by the defendants, that an agent of theirs had made a
contract. The plaintiffs must go further, and prove that such
agent had authority to make the contract. Not to make contracts generally, but to make the contract which in fact was
made. A party who seeks to charge a principal for the contracts made by his agent must prove that agent's authority;
and it is not for the principal to disprove it. The burden is
on the plaintiff. The plaintiffs would not contend that they
had made out a cause of action against the defendants, by
proving that Hewes had made a purchase in their name. Of
course they must go further, and prove that he had authority
to purchase, and they must also prove that the purchase was
within the authority conferred. Authority to buy one class
of goods would not be authority to buy another and entirely
different class. Authority to buy in the usual course of business would not be authority to buy outside of that course of
business. And when they rely upon contracts made with
IHewes the burden is on them, and continues on them, to establish the contract which in fact was made, and that it was
within the scope of his authority as agent. There was no
error in this respect.
The other specification of error is this A significant fact in
the clain of defendants is that these transactions were going
on for fourteen months and over, and that they had no knowledge of them, and that though their house was one of known
solvency, with a carefully acquired reputation for early payments, no account of the plaintiffs ever reached them. Of
course, if there was a studied concealment on the part of the
plaintiffs, it would be very significant. As against this, there
was testimony that two or three times a statement of account
was mailed to the defendants. The defendants called Joseph
N. Bassett, who testified that during this time he was their

SCHUTZ v. JORDAN.
Opiniou of the Court.

book-keeper, and that he had never received any such statement of account. fle then explained the course of business in
the defendants' establishment; that the letters, of which four
or five hundred were received daily, were opened by the corresponding clerk, and by him distributed., that there were
fifty or sixty retail departments; that bills when received
were distributed by him, the bill of goods for each department
being placed in a box with the same number as the department, that the buyer, the party in charge of that department,
had access to the box, and that it was his duty and habit to
take the bills out and 0. K. them and return them to him, the
book-keeper, for entry While there were three or four members of the firm of Jordan, Marsh & Co., defendants herein,
only one was on the witness stand to testify as to a want of
knowledge on the part of defendants of these transactions.
lNo special instructions were asked bythe defendants in respect
to this ,.but the court, of its own motion, charged the jury as
follows
"The fact the plaintiffs mailed such letters, whether the defendants received them or not, bears .upon the question as to
the conduct of the plaintiffs and their good faith in this transaction. It does not affect the defendants unless they received
the letters. The fact that a letter is mailed does not, in court,
establish the fact that the person it is mailed to received it.
That is not proof of that fact. In certain transactions about
proteiting notes and charging endorsers of commercial paperand things of that sort, the mere fact of mailing a letter
answers, but when a party is to be affected with, knowledge
of whbt is in the letter and the contents of it, and what goes
with it, they must go further and prove not only that it was
mailed, but that the party to whom it was addressed got it."
Of this, plaintiffs now complain. Doubtless this instruction
is open to criticism. In Rosenth&l v Walker, 111 U. S. 185,
193, it was said "The rule is well settled that if a letter
properly directed is proved to have been either put into the
post-office or delivered to the postman, it is presumed, from
the known. course of business in the post-office department,
that it reached its destination at the regular time, and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

received by the person to whom it was addressed. Saunderson
v Judge, 2 H. B1. 509, W4oodcock v Houldgworth, 16 M. &
W 124, Dunlop v Higgins, 1 H. L. Cas. 381, Callan v Gaylord. 3 Watts, 321, Starr v Torrey, 2 Zabr. 190; Tanner v
.Fughes,53 Penn. St. 289, Howard v Daly, 61 N. Y 362,
Huntley v JF74tter,105 Mass. 391." See also ]enderson v
Carbondale Coal and Coke Co., 140 IT. S.25.
And yet, under the circumstances of this case, we cannot
think that the jury were misled, or that the instruction was
erroneous. Ordinarily where the evidence shows that goods
passed into the store of defendants, and were received by their
agents. it would be held that a purchase was established; but
when, as here, the direct testimony shows that the goods were
thus passed Into the store of defendants surreptitiously, by
collusion with one of their employes, the presumption otherwise existing is overthrown, and by special instructions to divert
their attention from the- positive testimony as to the circumstances under which the goods were thus placed in the store,
to the inference which would arise from the unexplained receipt
-ofthe goods, would be'very apt to mistead a jury The attention of the jury should rather be directed to the direct testimony, as to the circumstances under which the goods were
passed into the store of the defendants, and to the actual
knowledge on the part of the defendants of the receipt of the
goods. So while the mailing of a letter creates an inference,
raises a presumption that the party to whom it was addressed
received it in due course of mail, and thus acquired knowledge
-of the matters stated therein, yet such presumption is one of
fact, not of law It is not conclusive, but sulject to control
and limitation by other facts. The undisputed testimony was,
that the letters (of which hundreds were received daily) were
not taken and examined by the defendants personally, but
received and distributed by their corresponding clerk; that
statements of goods purchased for the "cloak department"
would, by the custom of business, pass into the hands of
Hewes, the party who was engaged in these transactions,
and that they should have passed from him 0. Kd, to the
book-keeper, but that none ever did reach the latter. Under

SCHUTZ v. JORDA-N.
Opinion of the Court.

those circumstances, to instruct that the mailing of these statements creates a presumption that the defendants personally
received them, and were thus notified of the purchases being
made by Hewes, would probably have misled the jury When
a letter is duly mailed a presumption arises that it is delivered,
but that presumption is that it is delivered in the usual course
of business, and when the usual course of business is for an
agent of a party to receive his mail, the presumption is that
the agent received it rather than the principal. Here the
testimony shows tlat the usual course of business sent the
le, ers containing these statements into the hands of Hewes,
the wrongdoer, and he testifies that he turned no statements
over to his principals, and gave them no information until
after the close of these transactions. There is surely no presumption that the ordinary course of business in the establishment of defendants was departed from in the present case.
There is no presumption that the defendants themselves received the mail, or distributed it, or that the corresponding
clerk in these instances departed from the usual course of business, and handed these special letters to his principals. And
an instruction which would lead the jury to suppose that from
the fact of mailing all the other presumptions arising from the
ordinary course of business in the establishment of defendants
were to be ignored, would be incorrect in law, as well as
misleading.
These are the only specifications of error, other than those
involved in the general merits of the case, which we deem it
necessary to mention. We see no error m the proceedings.
The judgment was right, and it is
Afirmed.

