DAVIS v. PATRICK.
Statement of the Case.

the sale. The defendant is not now contesting the sale, and
so far as any trifling matters are concerned, it does not lie in
the mouth of these alleged creditors and stockholders to challenge the regularity of the proceedings. Indeed, we cannot
fail to observe that the main scope and purpose of this appeal
seem to be to relitigate questions fully determined by the final
decree appealed from and affirmed.
We see no error in the record, and the decree of the Circuit
Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUsTIcE GRAY did not hear
the argument or take part in the decision of this case.

DA -IS v. PATRICK.
XRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE Ur rTE

STATES FOR TEM

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 984. Argued October 22, 23,1891.-Decided November 9, 1891.
In determining whether an alleged promise is or is not a promise to answer
for the debt of another, the following rules may be applied (1) if the
promissor is a stranger to the transaction, without interest in it, the
obligations of the statute are to be strictly upheld. (2) but if he has a
personal, immediate and pecuniary interest in a transaction in which a
thirqd party is the original obligor, the courts will give effect to the promise.
The real character of a promise does not depend altogether upon form of
expression, but largely upon the situation of the parties, and upon
whether they understood it to be a collateral or direct promise.
When, in an action to recover on a contract, testimony is admitted withQut
objection, showing the alleged contract to have been made, but on a dhy
different from that averred m the declaration, and the court directs'a
verdict for the defendant without amendment of the declaration, such
ruling is not erroneous by reason of the variation.

THE case was stated by the court as follows
This case was commenced on the 24th day of November,
1880, by the filing of a petition in the District Court of Knox
County, Nebraska.
Subsequently it was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States, and at the May term, 1883,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of that court a judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff.
That judgment was reversed by this court, at its October
term, 1886. Dams v Patrwk,122 U. S. 138. A second trial
in January, 1890, resulted in another verdict and judgment for
the plaintiff, and again the defendant alleges error. The petition counts on two causes of action. No question is made by
counsel for plaintiff in error with respect to the first count or
the rulings thereon - the. only error alleged being in reference
to the second count. That count is for the transportation of
silver ore from the Flagstaff mine, in Utah Territory, to furnaces at Sandy, in the same Territory In the first trial it
was claimed that Davis, the defendant, was the real owner of
the Flagstaff mine, and therefore primarily responsible for all
debts contracted in its working. The relations between Davis
and the Flagstaff Mining Company were disclosed by a written
agreement, of date December 16, 1873. By that agreement it
appeared that Davis, on June 12, 1873, had advanced to the
company £5000, at the rate of six per cent interest, a sum then
due, that it had sold to Davis and agreed to deliver at the
ore-house of the company, free of cost, 5195 tons of ore, of
which it had only then delivered 200 tons, although Davis had
paid in full for the entire amount. The agreement also recited that Davis was to advance an additional amount, if
needed, not exceeding £10,000. It then provided that the
mine should be put under the sole management of J N. I.
Patrick, to be worked and controlled by him until such time
as the ore sold had been delivered and the sums borrowed had
been repaid, with interest. This control was irrevocable, save
at the instance of Davis. Coupled with this agreement was
a full power -of attorney to Patrick. This court held that such
contract established between Davis and the mining company
simply the relation of creditor and debtor, and did not make
hin in any true sense the owner. For the erroneous rulings
of the trial court in this respect the judgment was reversed.
In the second trial, this construction of the relations of Davis
to the Flagstaff Mining Company was followed by the court,
and the jury instructed that the contract put in evidence between Davis and the imining company created simply the rela-

DAVIS v. PATRICK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tions of creditor and debtor, and did not make the former
liable for expenses created in working and operating the ioine,
and the trial proceeded upon the theory that during the time
the services sued for were being rendered Davis was the party
mainly and pecuniarily interested in the working of the mine,
and that he assumed to Patrick a personal responsibility for
such services, and the real question tried was whether Davis's
promises were collateral undertakings to pay the debts of
another, and void because not in writing.
[In the opinion of the court, post, 485-487, some of the
material evidence at the last trial is set forth.]
Mir

J

-i.

Woolworth for plaintiff in error.

The case was put to the jury upon the words of an original
and absolute promise. It was said to them, if Davis agreed
to pay for the services, and if he agreed to pay the account,
and if he agreed to pay for the work, and so on, he is liable.
This was error, whether the proof shows that the form of
expression was "I will see you paid," or "I will be responsible." Both forms have in law a different meaning and effect
from the one, "I will pay you." It is elementary that the.
words "I will see you paid" form a collateral promise. On
this point we must look to the statute of Nebraska, and its.
construction by the Supreme Court of that State. De Wolf v
Rabaud, 1 Pet. 476.
The statute in Nebraska, as that in New York, (considered
in De Wolf v Raaud,) is substantially "a transcript of the,
29th of Charles 2, c. 3." It is as follows: "In the followingcases every agreement shall be void unless such agreement, or
some note or memorandum thereof be in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged therewith
Second,.
every special promise to answer for the debt, default or misdoings of another person." Comp. Stats. c. 32, § 8.
The cases upon the statute are as follows Rose v O'Linn,
10 Nebraska, 364. The servant of A was injured by the
wrongful act of B. A physician was called in by B, who went.
to A's house, where the servant lay, and performed medicalservices, immediately after which .A told him that B was.
VOL. CXLI-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

responsible for the accident, adding "But you need not be
at all alarmed, I will see that you are paid," and the physician
continued treating the patient until he was cured. 'Mr. Justice
Cobb deals with the question as one arising upon these words,
"I will-see that you are paid," and considers the promise as
within the seqpnd class of cases mentioned by Chief Justice
Kent in Leonard v. Yredenburgh, 8 Johns. 29, S. C. 5 Am. Dec.
317, that is, as a collateral undertaking. See also _formssey v.
.Rinsey,16 Nebraska, 17, Waters v. Skafer, 25 Nebraska, 225.
These cases dispose of the question and show the error into
which the court fell in perverting a promise to see Patrick
paid into a promise to pay him. And this is the old law In
Watktns v Perkzns, 1 Ld. Raym. 224, the Chief Justice said
"If A promise B, being a surgeon, that if B cure D of a wound,
he will see him paid, this is only a promise to pay if D does
not, and therefore it ought to be in writing, by the statute of
frauds."
atson v W7iaram, 2 T. R. 80, is the leading case on this
subject. The defendant had applied to one of the plaintiffs,
to know if they were willing to serve one R.C. with groceries,
and on his replying that they did not know IR. C., the defendant said, "If you do not know him, you know me, and I will
see you paid." The goods were subsequently sent to R. C.,
and charged to him. Application was made to him for payment, and he not responding, and the defendant refusing to
pay, the action was brought for goods sold and delivered to
the defendant. Mr. Justice Buller, reviewing some previous
cases, said "The authorities are not now to be shaken, and
the general line now taken, is that if persons for whose use the
goods are furnished be liable at all, any other promise by a
third person to pay that debt, must be in writing, otherwise
it is void by the statute of frauds." And judgment was given
to the defendant, without hearing his counsel. See also Brown
v Bradshaw, 1 Duer, 199, 1ill v Raymond, 3 Allen, 540,
Williams v Corbet, 28 Illinois, 262, Greene v Burton, 59
Vermont, 423, Btrehell v iZVeaster, 36 Ohio St., 331, Simpson
v. Hall, 47 Connecticut, 417, Wagner v ilallack, 3 Colorado,
176. They all agree with the Nebraska cases, that the prom.

DAVIS v. PATRICK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ise, "I will see you paid," is a collateral one and within the
statute.
From these words, I pass to consider the other form of the
promise, which Patrick put into Davis's mouth, namely, that
he would be responsible for the debt.
Anderson v .Hayrnan, 1 H. B1. 120, was upon a promise
by a father in these words: "I will be bound for the payment
of the money as far as £800 or £1000," for goods sold and
delivered to the son. Payment was demanded of the son, but
he having become bankrupt, plaintiff sued the father. The
verdict being for the defendant, the court upon a rule nsst for
a new trial, held that this promise not being in writing, was
void by the statute of frauds.
In Tileston v Nettleton, 6 Pick. 509, the defendant was the
commanding officer of a militia company, and also a member
of the committee on arrangements for a celebration of the
Fourth of July, which included a public dinner provided by
the plaintiff. The members of the company with other citizens partook of the dinner, and while they were eating the
plaintiff sent two persons to collect one dollar from each of
those present to pay for his dinner, etc. Whereupon the
defendant stopped them and said that they need not call upon
the members of -the company, as he would be responsible for
them, to which the plaintiff assented, and no money was
collected from them. The evidence was submitted to the
jury, which found for the defendant ;-and the court, affirming
the judgment, stated that the members ofthe company were
the original debtors, and might have been sued separately upon
an implied promise, and their original liability proved that
.the defendant's engagement was only collateral.
Walker v. .McDonald,5 Minnesota, 455, was an action for
rent for which the defendant- promised to be "responsible,"
which was held to be a collateral promise.
In Walker v ]Richards, 41 N.. H. 388, it was held that a
promise to be "accountable" for goods sold and delivered to
a third person was within the statute.
No circumstance testified to by any of the witnesses shows
that either of the parties, the company, Patrick or Davis ion-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

sidered Davis liable upon an original promise, nor in fact liable
at all until Patrick ceased to haul the ores. Everything, on
the other hand, shows that Davis's liability was not upon an
original promise. These circumstances entitled Davis to a
direction from the court to the jury, as requested by him in
his third and fourth requests, that he was not liable as upon
an original promise.
The cases are all to the effect that when the words of a
promise are equivocal, the question upon all the circumstances
must be submitted to the jury Anderson v Hayman, 1 H.
B1. 120, Darnell v Tratt, 2 Car. & Payne, 82, Dwmon v
-Frazee,1 E. D. Smith, 32.
The case at bar hiffers from .Emersonv Slater, 22 How 28,
in all material circumstances. When the alleged promise was
made, the Flagstaff Company was solvent, and possessed of
valuable properties, none of which had been placed in the
hands of Davis. Patrick never stopped or threatened to stop
working for the company, all he says is that but for Davis's
promise he would have forced him to pay He had not taken
possession of the company's property so as to exclude it, or any
contractor from doing the work. The promise was not in
its form absolute and original, but contingent and collateral.
These are material distinctions.
There are several cases classified according to their circumstances, which illustrate the distinction taken above, between
Emerson v Slater and the case at bar, that when the alleged
promise was made by Davis, Patrick had not put either himself or Davis in a position which made his employment necessary Clay v Walton, 9 California, 328, lDoyle v White, 26
iMaine, 341, 5 . C. 45 Am. Dec. 110, Ames v -Foster,106 Mass.
400 , Gill v Herrwk, 111 Mass. 501.
Another set of cases is where the new promisor has agreed
to pay a lien upon property where the protection of his interest
called for the discharge of the lien. Fullam v. Adams, 37
Vermont, 391.
.Ar John E. Webster for defendant in error. -. r Yathaniel
Wilson was with him on the brief.

DAVIS v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

That Davis was interested in having the ore transported to
the furnaces is clear He was interested in two respects
First, as to the 4995 tons to be delivered to him at the orehouse, it being his property when thus delivered, any subsequent handling was wholly for his benefit, and in respect to
the balance, as the transportation was one step in the process
of converting the product of the mine into money, it would
help to pay the debt of the company to him. Davis, therefore, was so pecuniarily interested in, and so much to be benefited by, the prompt and successful transportation of the ore,
that any contract which he might enter into in reference to it
was supported by abundant consideration. We proceed, therefore, to inquire what he said and did. After the execution of
the papers, the newly appointed manager took possession of the
mine, and in the fore part of 1874 the plaintiff commenced
the transportation of the ore under a contract with the agent
of the manager. The business was carried on in the name of
the mining company
The plaintiff understood that Davis
was interested in the matter, though not informed as to the
extent of the interest, or the terms of the agreement between
him and the mining company In the fall of 1874 Davis came
to Utah to examine the property He was introduced by the
manager to the foreman of plaintiff, in the latter's presence,
as the boss of the mine, to which Davis assented. After this,
plaintiff, who had not received his pay in full for the services
already rendered, had an account made up showing the balance due him, and presented it to Davis. His testimony as to
the conversation which followed is in these words "I1 showed
it to Mr. Davis and told him I was not getting my money, and
Mr. Davis said my account was all right and he would be personally responsible to me for the money, and for me to go on as
I had been doing and draw as little money as I could get along
with to pay the men and the running expenses, and he would
see that I got every dollar of my money" The plaintiff's
cashier, who-was present at this conversation, gives this as his
recollection of the conversation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. In that conversation state what Mr. Davis said about
being responsible to A. S. Patrick for that account.
"A. He stated to Mr. Patrick in my presence that he would
personally be responsible for that account. He says ' You
know, Al., I practically own this mine, but money is scarce
and we must get what we can out of the mine.' He says weare making large expenditures for improvements, and he says
you shall have all the money you want to pay your men and
expenses, but you must wait for the balance, ahd I will see
that you are paid.
"Q. What did he say in that connection to A. S. Patrick
about continuing on in the hauling of the ores
"A. He requested him to continue in the hauling of the
ores. He requested him to do it.
"Q. In response to Mr. Davis to that request, what did Mr.
Patrick say?
"A. He said to Mr. Davis if he would guarantee him to be
paid he would continue to work, and Davis said he would see
him paid."
After this, the plaintiff continued the work of transportation
until the fall of 1875, receiving such payments from time to
time as to extinguish the amount due him at the date of this
conversation, and leaving a balance more than .covered by the.
work done in 1875, and it is only for work done after these
promises that this recovery was had and in respect to which
the questions presented and .discussed arise. The plaintiff
testified to another conversation, in September, 1876, in the
city of New York. His account of that conversation is given
in these words "Plaintiff told Davis that his brother and
himself were hard up for money, and wanted to know if Davis
would not give them some money on the ' Flagstaff' account,
for hauling the ores. Plaintiff had his account with him and
showed it to Davis. Davis said the whole of the account was
all ricght, and he proposed to pay the account, and said he
would pay the plaintiff. Plaintiff said to Davis that if he
would give hin some money on the account it would help him
out. Da s said he had some securities in London which he
was going to sell. and would have some money in a few days

DAVIS v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

and would give plaintiff $5000 on the account. Plaintiff said
if the money was going to be there in a few days he would
wait for it, but Davis said 'No, you go home and I will
pledge you my word that I will telegraph the money to you
to the First National Bank by the first of October."'
And, again, he testified to an interview in 1877 with Davis,
in the city of Omaha, in the presence of other parties, in
which he said "Davis, you promised all along to pay me
that money," and Davis replied, "I believe I did."
This testimony of plaintiff as to conversations with defendant is corroborated by other witnesses and contradicted by
none. It must therefore be accepted as presenting the facts
upon which this case must be determined. Were these promises binding upon Davis, or of no avail to the plaintiff because
not in writing 2 Were it not for the statute of frauds there
would be no question, for obviously there was both promise
and consideration. Defendant relies upon that provision of
the statute of frauds which forbids the maintenance of alt
action "to charge the defendant upon any special promise to
answer for the debt. default, or miscarriage of another person,
unless the agreement upon which such action shall be brought,
or some memorandum or note thereof, shall be in writing,"
etc. The purpose of this provision was not to effectuate, but
to prevent, wrong. It does not apply to promises in respect
to debts created at the instance and for the benefit of the
promisor, but only to those by which the debt of one party is
sought to be charged upon and collected from another. The
reason of the statute is obvious, for in the one case if there be
any conflict between the parties as to the exact terms of the
promise, the courts can see that justice is done by charging
against the promisor the reasonable value of that in respect to
which the promise was made, while in the other case, and
when a third party is the real debtor, and the party alone
receiving benefit, it is impossible to solve the conflict of memory or testimony in any manner certain to accomplish justice.
There is also a temptation for a promisee, in a case where the
real debtor has proved insolvent or unable to pay, to enlarge
the scope of the promise, or to torture mere words of encour.

OCTOBER TER!IM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

agement and confidence into an absolute promise, and it is so
obviously just that a promisor receiving no benefits should be
bound only by the exact terms of his promise, that this statute
requiring a memorandum in writing was enacted. Therefore,
whenever the alleged promisor is an absolute stranger to the
transaction, ard without interest in it, courts strictly uphold
the obligations of this statute. But cases sometimes arise in
which, though a third party is the original obligor, the primary
debtor, the promisor has a personal, immediate atid pecuniary
interest in the transaction, and is therefore himself a party to
be benefited by the performance of the promisee. In such
cases the reason which underlies and which prompted this
statutory provision fails, and the courts will give effect to the
promise. As said by this court in Emerson v Slater, 22 How.
28, 43 "Whenever the main purpose and object of the promisor is not to answer for another, but to subserve some pecuniary or business purpose of his own, involving either a benefit to himself or damage to the other contracting party, his
promise is not within the statute, although it may be in form
a promise to pay the debt of another, and although the performance of it may incidentally have the effect of extinguishing that liability" To this may be added the observation of
Browne, in his work on the statute of frauds, section 165
4" The statute contemplates the mere promise of one
man to
be responsible for another, and cannot be interposed as a cover
and shield against the actual obligations of the defendant himself." The thought is, that there is a marked difference between a promise which, without any interest in the subjectmatter of the promise in the promisor, is purely collateral to
the obligation of a third party, and that which, though operating upon the debt of a third party, is also and mainly for
the benefit of the promisor. The case before us is in the latter
category While the original promisor was the mining company, and the undertaking was for its benefit, yet-the performance of the contract enured equally to the benefit of Davis and
the mining company Performance helped the mining company in the payment of its debt to Davis, and at the same
tine helped Davis to secure the payment of the mining com-

DAVIS v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

pany's debt to him, and as the mining company was apparently
destitute of any other property, and the payment of its debt
to Davis therefore depended upon the continued and successful
working of this mine, and as the control and working of the
mine had been put in the hands of Davis so that he might
justly say, as he did, "I am practically the owner," it follows
that he was a real, substantial party in interest in the performance of this contract. His promise was not one purely collateral to sustain the obligations of the. mining company, but substantially a direct and personal one to advance his own interests. While the mining company was ultimately to be benefited,
Davis was primarily to be benefited by the transportation of
the ore, for thereby that debt, which otherwise could not,
would be paid to him. He, therefore, in any true sense of the
term occupied not the position of a collateral undertaker, but
that of an original promisor, and it would be a shadow on
justice if the administration of the law relieved him from the
burden of his promise on the ground that it also resulted to the
benefit oi the mining company, his debtor.
Counsel for Davis place stress on the form of expression
attributed by Patrick to Davis, to wit "I will be personally
responsible, I will see you paid," and contends that .the import of such language is that of a collateral promise. There
is force in this contention, as it implies that some one else was
also bound, but the real character of a promise does not depend
altogether upon the form of expression, but largely on the situation of the parties, and the question always is, what the
parties mutually understood by the language, whether they
understood it to be a collateral or a direct promise. Patrick
declares be understood it to be a direct promise, and acted on
the faith of it. That Davis understood it in the same way, is
evidenced not only from the circumstances surrounding the
parties at the ttme, but from the fact that in a subsequent interview, when charged to have always promised to pay this debt,
he admits that he believes that he did. The. plaintiff, believwun
that Davis wx, as. he said, practically the owner, the party
primarily to. be benefited by the conversion of the products of
the mine into money, understood that Davis was making an

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

original promise to pay fo the work which he might do, and
upon such promise he might surely rely as an original promise,
at least for any work done thereafter.
The merits of the case, therefore, as disclosed by the testimony were with Patrick, and the judgment in his favor was
right. It is objected that the court ii its instructions spoke
of Davis as an original promisor, as one promising to pay the
debt, and not as one promising to be responsible for the debt, or
to see it paid. But as Davis, in the second conversation promised to pay, and in the third admitted that he had always
promised to pay the debt, we cannot think that the court
misinterpreted the scope and effect of his words. It is not
probable that the parties to this transaction understood the
difference between an original and a collateral promise. We
must interpret Davis's promises in the light of the surroundings, and of his subsequent admissions, and in that light we
cannot think that the court erred in its construction thereof;
and ifthe jury believed that he had made such promises, we
cannot doubt that the-verdict should have been as it was.
It is also objected, that the court erred in not directing a
verdict for defendant upon the ground of a departure from the
allegations of the petition. That counts on an original employment by Davis, in 1873, while the testimony shows that the
original employment was by the mining company, and that
the promise of Davis was made in the fall of 1874, and after
Patrick had been at work for months for the mining company
As no objection was made to the admission of testimony on.
'this ground, and as an amendment of the petition to correspond to the proof would involve but a trifling change, we
cannot see that there was any error in the ruling of the court.
If objection had been made in the first instance, doubtless the
court would, as it ought -to have done, have permitted an
amendment of the petition. There was no surprise, for the
facts were fully developed in the former trial.
Upon the record as presented, we think that the verdict and
judgment were right, and as no substantial error appears in
-theproceedings the judgment is

Aflirmed.

KNEELAND v. LUCE. (2)
Statement of the Case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE

GRAY did not hear the argument or take part in the decision

of this case.

KNEELAND v. LUCE. (2)
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 39. Argued October 19, 20, 1891. - Decided November 9, 1891.
In a suit in equity brought against a railroad company by a judgment
creditor, for the sale of its road, because of insolvency, the road being
covered by numerous mortgages, a receiver was -appointed, on whose
petition an order was made directing him to issue receiver's certificates
to various parties, who claimed to be sub-contractors for building the
road, and were about to sell certain shares of the stock of a company
whose road formed part of the line of road and were held in pledge for
the debts. The order directed that the certificates should be a first
lien on a certain part of the road and should so state on their face. They
were so issued. The trustee in the mortgages was a party defendant to
the suit, when the receiver was appointed, and, by its counsel, consented
to the issue of the certificates. The trustee also filed a foreclosure bill,
in which a decree of foreclosure and sale was made, providing for the
payment of ' court and receiver's indebtedness," prior to the payment of
the bondholders, and gave leave to the purchaser at the sale to appeal
from any order directing the payment of claims as prior to the mortgage
bonds. The road was sold, and the purchaser, under the order of the
court, received the shares of stock referred to. The claims of the holders of the certificates were reported favorably by a master, and, on
exceptions to the report, by the purchaser, for himself and other bondholders, the court allowed all the certificates as prior liens; and directed
the purchaser to pay their amount into court. Held,
(1) The issue of the certificates was proper.
(2) Good faith required that the promise of the court should be
redeemed;
(3) The purchaser and the bondholders were estopped from setting up
any claim against-the priority of the certificates.
The appeal was dismissed as to the claims of the appellees which did not
exceed 85000.

THE court stated the case as follows:

