PARKER v. ORMSBY
Syllabus.

powers of the corporation, that construction is to be adopted
which works the least harm to the State." The Binghamton
Brzdge, 3 Wall. 51, 75. Guided by this rule, in respect to
which there is no difference of opinion in the courts of this
country, we are forbidden to hold that a grant, under legislative authority, of an exclusive privilege, for a term of years,
of supplying a municipal corporation and its people with
water drawn by means of a system of water works from a
particular stream or river, prevents the State from granting to
other persons the privilege of supplying, during the same
period, the same corporation and people with water drawn in
like manner from a different stream or river.
The relief asked was, in effect, an injunction perpetully
restraining the defendant from supplying the port and people
of Mobile with water drawn from rivers or streams other than
Three-Mile Creek. That was the object of the suit, and the
decree below must be restricted to a denial simply of that
relief. Thus restricted, and without deciding any other question, the decree dismissing the bill.must be
.Afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

did not participate in the decision of

this case.

PARKER v: ORMSBY
AtPPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1658. Submitted April 27, 1891.-Decided Ma3

, _91.

In a suit by the assignee of a promissory note payable to the order of the
payee, where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depends upon the citizenship of the parties, it must appear affirmatively in the record that the
payee could have maintained the action on the same ground.
A party cannot, by proceedings in the Circuit Court, waive a question of
the jurisdiction of that court, so as to prevent its being raised and
passed upon here.
VOL. CXLI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.MrA onel C. Burr for appellants.
_Mr Walter T Lamb for appellee.

Mii.

JUSTICE

ILALAfi

delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act of Congress approved February 25th, 1889, it was
provided that in all cases where a final judgment or decree
shall be rendered in a Circuit Court of the United States in
which there shall have been a question involving the juiisdiction of that court, the party against whom the judgment or
decree is rendered shall be entitled to an appeal or writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the United States to review the
judgment or decree without reference to its ampunt, but in
cases where the decree or judgment does not exceed the sum
of five thousand dollars, this court is not to review any question raised upon the record except such question of jurisdiction.
25 Stat. 693, c. 236.
This case comes here under that act. The question of the
Jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, in which this suit was brought,
.arises out of the following facts 0. M. Parker executed at Licoln Nebraska, September 7th, 1886, his promissory note for
$2000, payable on the 7th day of September, 1891, with semiannual interest from date at the rate of eight per cent per
znnum, the interest coupons and the note being payable to
Walter J Lamb or order, at the Lancaster County Bank, in
lincoln, Nebraska. It was provided in the note that any interest coupon not paid when due should bear interest at the rate
of eight per cent per annum from maturity, and if any interest remained unpaid for thirty days after it matured the
holder could elect to consider the whole debt due and collectible at once, also, that in case an action was brought for the
collection of the note, the maker was to pay, as attorneys fees,
:a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount due. The note and
interest- coupons were secured by a mortgage given by Parker
and wife upon real estate in the city of -Lincoln.

PARKER v. ORMSBY.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the back of the note and coupons were the following endorsements: "Pay L. L. Ormsby or order. Lancaster
County Bank, Lincoln, Neb. F 0. Metcalf, cashier. Pay
Lancaster County Bank or order. I waive demand, notice,
protest and notice of protest, and guarantee the payment of
the within note. W J Lamb."
The whole debt having become due by reason of default in
meeting the interest, this suit was brought, December 13th,
1889, by Lucmda L. Ormsby against the appellants, Charles
M. Parker and Emma Parker, his wife, and Martha L. Courtney, the relief sought being a decree for the sale of the mortgaged premises to pay the amount due, and for a personal
judgment against Charles M. Parker for any deficiency remaining after the sale.
The bill avers that the plaintiff is a citizen of Illinois, and
that the defendants are citizens of Nebrdska. It contains,
however, no averment as to the citizenship of Lamb, the
original payee in the note and coupons as well as the mortgagee.
A decree was rendered finding due the plaintiff the sum of
$2520.80, the aggregate of the principal and interest of the
note and coupons and costs, including attorney's fees. The
mortgaged premises were ordered to be sold to raise that-sum.
iDid the court below have jurisdiction of this ease 2 If jurisdiction did not affirmatively appear, upon the record, it was
error to have rendered a decree, whether the question of jurisdiction was raised or not in the court below In the exercise
of its power, this court, of its own motion, must deny the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, in all cases
coining before it, upon writ of error or appeal, where such
jurisdiction does not affirmatively appear in the record on
which it is.
called to act. Xtansftld &c. Railway Co. v
Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382; Zing B-ruge Co. v. Otoe County, 120
U. S. 225, 226, Cameron v lodges, 127 U S.322, 325.
The judiciary act of 1789 provided that the District and
Circuit Courts of the United, States should not "have cogpizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promissory
note or other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless a

OCTOBER TERM:, 1890.
Opinion of the -Court.

suit might have -been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases
of foreign bills of exchange'
1 Stat. 78, c. 20, ยง 11. The act
of March 3, 1875, provided -that no 'Circuit or District Court
should "have cognizance.of any suit founded. on contract in
favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted
in such court to recover thereon if no assignment had been
made, except in cases of promissory notes negotiable by the law
merchant aad bills of exchange." 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, ยง 1. The
provision in the act of March 3, 1887, determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of.the United States and for other
purposes, as amended by that of August 13, 1888, is in these
words: "Nor shall any Circuit or District Court have cognizance of any suit, except upon foreign bills of exchange, to
recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose in
action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent holder
if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by
any corporation, unless such suit might have been, prosecuted
in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment or
transfer had been made." 25 Stat. 433, 4:34, c. 866, ยง 1.
It thus appears that the act of 1887, in respect to suits to
recover the contents of promissory notes or other choses in
action, differs from the act of 1789 only in the particular that
the act of 1887 excludes, under certain circumstances, from the
cognizance of the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States suits in favor "of any subsequent holder, if such intrument be payable to bearer and be not made by any corporation." It is not necessary now to consider the meaning of the
words just quoted, for the present suit is by an assignee of a
promissory note payable, not to bearer, but-to the order of. the
payee. And we have only to inquire as to the circumptances
under which the court below could take cognizance of a suit of
that character. That inquiry is not difficult of solution.
It was settled by many decisions, under the act of 1789, that
a Circuit Court of the United States had no jurisdiction of a
suit brought against the maker by the assignee of a promissory note payable to order, unless it appeared, affirmatively,
that it could have been maintainjed in that court in the name

PARKER v. ORMSBY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the original payee. Turner v Bank of North Amerzca, 4
Dall. 8, 11,
fontalet v -Murray,4 Cranch, 46, Gibson v.
Chew, 16 Pet. 315, 316, Cofee v Planters'Bank of Tennessee,
13 How 183, 187, .Morgan's Arecutor v' Gay, 19 Wall. 81, 82.
There werp these recognized exceptions to that general rule in
its application to promissory notes 1. That an endorsee could
sue the endorser in the Circuit Court, if they were citizens of
different States, whether a suit could have been brought or not
by the payee against the maker, for the endorsee would not
claim through an assignment, but by virtue of a new contract
between himself and the endorser. Young v Bryan, 6 Wheat.
146,151, Mullen v Torrance,9 Wheat. 537, 538. 2. The holder
of a negotiable .instrument payable to bearer or to a named
person or bearer -could sue the maker in a court of the United
States, without reference to the citizenship of the original
payee or original holder, because his title.did not come to him
by assignment, but by delivery merely Bank of Kentucky v
Wister, 2 Pet. 318, 326, Thompson v Perrine, 106 U. S. 589,
592, and authorities there cited. There can be no claim that
the present case is within either of those exceptions.
The authorities we have cited are conclusive against the right
of the plaintiff to maintain this suit in the court b~lowi-unless
it appeared that the original payee, Lamb, could have maintained a suit in that court upon the note and coupons. Consequently, it was necessary that the record should, as it. does
not, disclose his citizenship. .Metcal v Watertown, 128 U. S.
586, Stevens v Nichols, 130 U. S. 230, Crekore v. 0Azo &
.Misszssipt Railway, 131 U. S. 240, 243, Rollins v. Chafee
County, 34 Fed. Rep. 91. If it be true, as stated in an affidavit
filed below, that Lamb was, at the commencement of the suit,
a citizen of Nebraska, clearly the court below was without
jurisdiction, for all the defendants are alleged to be citizens
of that State.
There is another point in the case that requires notice. By
an act of the legislature of Nebraska, approved February 23,
1875, it was provided "1. Hereafter no stay of execution or
order of sale upon any judgment or decree shall be granted for
a longer time than nine-months from and after the rendition

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of such judgment or decree. 2. The order of sale on all decrees for the sale of mortgaged premises shall be stayed for
the period of nine months from and after the rendition of such
decree, whenever the defendant shall within twenty days after
the rendition of such decree, file with the clerk of the court a
written request for the same, Pr'ovmded That if the defendant make no such request within said twenty days, the order
of sale may issue immediately after the expiration thereof."
"5. No proceedings in error or appeal shall be allowed after
such stay has been taken, nor shall a stay be taken on a judgment entered as herein contemplated, against one who is surety
in the stay of execution." Laws of Nebraska, 1875, p. 49;
Compiled Stats. of Neb. 1885, p. 688, ยง 477.
The appellee moved to dismiss the appeal upon the ground
that the above statute constitutes a rule of property in
Nebraska, and that, as the appellants, within twenty days
after the rendition of the decree, filed with the clerk below a
written request that the sale be stayed for nine months from
and after the decree, he is precluded from prosecuting this
appeal, without reference to any question of the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court. This motion has been met with one by the
appellants that they be permitted to execute a supersedeas
bond, or that the action be dismissed for want of jurisdiction
in the Circuit Court.
The motion to dismiss the appeal necessarily assumes that it
was competent for the appellants by their acts, or by failing
to act, to waive the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. This is an error. We said in .etcalf v TVatertown,
above cited, that whether a Circuit Court of the United States
had or had not jurisdiction in a case brought-here, upon error
or appeal, is a question that this court must examine and determine, even if the parties forbear to make it, or consent that
the case be considered upon its merits.
As to the effect of the statute of Nebraska, it is only necessary to say that it cannot be permitted, by its operation, to
confer jurisdiction upon a Circuit Court of the United States,
in contralAntion of the statutes defining and limiting its jurisdiction.. Aiich would be the result in this case if, without

CARPENTER v. STRAXGL
Syl'abus.

determining the question of jurisdiction, the appeal be dismissed upon the ground that appellants, by accepting the provisions of the statute of Nebraska in respect to a stay of the
sale, are'estopped to appeal from the decree rendered against
them. What would be the effect of that statute in its application to a case of which the Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting in Nebraska, could properly take cognizance, we need
not inquire.
The motion to'dismss the appeal ts dented, and the decree ig
reversed,with costg agatnstthe appellee, and remanded witA
-nstructzons to dismss the billfor want of umrsdictzon sn.the court below, unless the platntif, by leave of the court
below, and nthtn such time as it may prescribe, amends her
bill so as to present a case withAn its urasdietwn.

CARPENTER v. STRANGE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 267. Argued March 26, 1891-

Decided May 25, 1891.

The objection that the record of proceedings in a court of record offered
in evidence should not be received in evidence, on the ground that the
transcript was incomplete, or was improperly authenticated, should be
raised in the court below;, and if not raised there cannot be taken here
for the first time.
In an action in the Supreme Court of New York (the court having jurisdiction of the parties) between two sisters, the defendant being sued in her
representative capacity as testatrix of her father's will, the matters in
controversy were: (1) whether the plaintiff had accented or rejected a
provision made for her by her father's will, (2) whether she was entitled
to xecover from her fqther's estate an amount claimed to be due on account of a fund which came to him as trustee for her, and-which be had
never accounted for; and (3) whether a certain conveyance of real estate
in Tennessee made by the father in his life-time to the defendant should
be adjudged to be fraudulent, and be vacated. That court, after hearing
the parties, adjudged (1) that the plaintiff had not acopted the provision
so made for her; (2) that the plaintiff was entitled to recover the M11
amount so claimed, and (3) that the deed was "absolutely null and void,
from the beginning," so far as it affected the testator's said indebted-

