OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

GREGORY CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY v.
STARR.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Nos. 356, 357. Submitted April 29, 1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

It being apparent that the proceedings in this court were for delay, No.
356 is affirmed with ten per cent damages, and No. 357 is dismissed, the
court being without jurisdiction.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

JAr Edwzn W Toole and MrAWilliam TVallace, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
-r

FF Sanders for defendant in error.

MR.JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On July 28, 1883, the .ftna Iron Works of San Francisco
entered into a contract with the Gregory Consolidated Mining
Company to build and equip for it at Gregory, Montana, a
complete concentrating mill of specified capacity The contract provided that the mill "shall be completed and delivered
in perfect running order within four months from date, provided the lumber required to be used in constructing the
building and placing the machinery therein is delivered on the
ground at Gregory aforesaid
within forty days after
the receipt of the'bill for said lumber by 1=.W Child, representing said party of -the second part." In consideration of
this the mining company agreed to pay twenty thousand dollars upon receipt at Helena, Montana, of a bill of lading showIng a shipment of the machinery from San Francisco, and the
sum of thirty thousand dollars in three equal instalments, "in
thirty, sixty and ninety days from the acceptance upon completion, of said mill, by said party of the second part." The

GREGORY CONSOLIDATED MINING CO. v. STARR. 223
Opinion of the Court.

twenty thousand dollars was paid on receipt of the bill of lading; but the three instalments of ten thousand dollars each
were none of them paid, and these actions were brought to
recover those instalments. No. 357 on our docket, though
later in number, was the first action commenced in the District Court of Montana, and was to recover the first instalment. No. 356 was commenced some months thereafter, and
was to recover the last two instalments. It was commenced
later, was tried later, and judgment was rendered at a later
day, but, somehow, it occupies an earlier position on our
docket. The differences between the two cases are these No.
356 was tried by a jury, No. 357, by the court without a jury
In No. 356 a foreclosure of a mechanic's lien was sought, but
not in 357. The answer in the suit for the second and third
instalments, No. 356, claimed damages for the failure to complete the mill within the time specified in the contract. With
these exceptions the cases are substantially identical. The
testimony in the two cases was practically the same, being
mainly by depositions. fBoth cases are brought to this court
by writ of error. As one of them, No. 357, was tried by the
court without a jury, it could only be brought here by appeal.
Hecht v Bouglton, 105 U. S. 235, Act of April 7, 1874, 18
Stat. p. 27, c. 80, sec. 2. We have, therefore, no jurisdiction
oer this case. As to both of them, it may also be observed,
that the requirements of section 997, Revised Statutes, and
Rule 21 of this court, as to the assignment and specification
of errors, have been ignored. The only suggestion in respect
tO error presented by either record is that made in the statement of appeal from the District to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, and the briefs filed in this court by the plaintiff in
error were the same as were filed in the Supreme Court of the
Territory without compliance 'with Rule 21, and with even
inaccurate references to the pages of the record on which the
specifications in the statement of appeal to the Supreme Court
of the Territory are found. We could properly dispose of
these cases on the ground of this disregard of the requirements of the statute and rules, but ten per cent damages are
asked under clause 2 of rule 23, and, therefore, we pass to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

inquire what are the real merits of this controversy, and what
are the errors which in any way are suggested by the record.
There is no doubt as to the sufficiency of the complaints.
Indeed, no objection was made to them. Upon -the general
merits of the case, it may be observed that the answers first
denied the trinsfer from the _Atna Iron Works to plaintiff.
One witness, himself interested in the iron works, testified to
the transfer; and there was no testimony even tending to
gainsay this. The answers also denied the making of the contract. The assistant general manager of the mining company
was called as a witness, identified the contract, and testified
to its execution by himself for the mining company The
testimony is undisputed, not only that the mill was built and
equipped, but also that it was accepted and operated by the
defendant. A letter from Prof. Hesse was in evidence, signed
by him as superintendent of the Gregory Smelter, informing
the Iron Works of the completion of the contract, his entire
satisfaction with the work done, that the concentrator was
of larger capacity than that called for by the contract; and
that the building was substantially and well built, and the
machinery of first-class workmanship. The party who represented the Iron Works in this transaction testified that Child,
the assistant general manager of the mining company, told
him he must please Hesse in the construction of the mill, and
that if the mill was acceptable to Hesse, it would be to the
company Hesse testified that he showed his letter of acceptance to Child, and that he made no objection to it, and that
he accepted it on April 18, 1884. And Child, the assistant
general manager, himself, when called as a witness, testified
that Hesse Was at the time of the building of the mill his representatlve at the works. Under these circumstances, it does
not admit of doubt that the judgments were right, and that
substantial justice was done thereby
If we pass to a consideration of the special matters of objection we find nothing which presents even technical error.
It is insisted that the court erred in overruling the objection
of defendant to three questions and answers in the deposition
of D. H. IMalter, the party who represented the Iron Works in

GREGORY CONSOLIDATED

NING CO. v. STARR. 225

Opinion of the Court.

the contract. These questions and answers, numbered 6,.7
and 8, related to the time of the receipt by 1H. W Child of
the bill for the lumber specified in the contract, the time of its
actual delivery on the ground at Gregory, Montana, and to the
witness' possession of a copy of the bill of lumber so delivered.
The form of the questions was unobjectionable, the answers were
responsive thereto, and were not heresay The objections to
these questions and answers are frivolous.
Question number 9 and the answer thereto, in the same
deposition, are also challenged. This question was as to the
time of the completion of the mill, and the fact of an acceptance. The answer was that the mill was completed about the
end of February, 1884, and accepted April 18, 1881, by Charles
Hesse, the superintendent of the mining company m Montana.
Surely, completion and acceptance were matters which, under
the contract, had to be proved, and as the form of the question is not challenged, and the answer was direct and responsive thereto, the objection to them is no better than those
heretofore mentioned.
Objection is also made to question and answer number 6, in
the deposition of Charles Hesse. That question was, who
accepted the mill on behalf of the company, and how was
such acceptance made, and the answer of the witness was
that he accepted it in writing. It is impossible to conceive of
any objection to this testimony
The answer to question number 12 in his deposition is also
objected to. In that answer, he testified to his estimate as
to the capacity of the concentrator. It certainly worked no
hardship to the defendant that the capacity was larger than
that stipulated for in the contract, and it tended to prove that
the acceptance, which, in fact, was made, was properly made.
It is further objected that the court erred in refusing to
non-suit the plaintiff at the close of his testimony But considering the scope of the testimony, which we have heretofore
noticed, it is obvious that the court did not err m overruling
such motion, and would have erred if it had sustained it.
It is also objected that the court erred in refusing to receive
in evidence a letter from Child, the manager, to the Iron
VOL. CXi.I-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Works. As this letter contained nothing of value as tending
to determine the matters in dispute between the parties, the
court did not err in refusing to admit it. In so far as it referred to the details of shipment, and the difficulty of transporting the machinery to the mine, or the condition of the
building, even if these matters were of any importance, it is
not perceived iowv the defendant can make testimony for
itself by simply writing a letter to the plaintiff. Mdr. Child
was a witness on the trial, and if there was any fact stated in
the letter which was material to the controversy, he could
have been interrogated in respect to it.
Another objection is that the court refused to receive in
evidence four letters from Hesse to Child. These letters could
not be received for the purpose of impeaching Hesse, for his
attention had not been first called to them, and no letter
from one officer of a company to another is admissible against
another party to prove the truth of the facts stated therein.
A final matter is this: In each case appear instructions,
'though in a case tried by a -court without a jury a request for
instructions seems incongruous. But passing that by, for in
the case tried by the jury instructions were proper, it is urged
that the court erred in refusing this instruction "The Ziry
are instructed in the above-entitled action that time in the
contract sued is of the essence thereof, and that if you find
that the failure to fulfil the contract in tune was without fault
of the Gregory Consolidated Mlining Company, then plaintiff
cannot-recover and you must find for defendant." The only
stipulation in the contract as to time was that heretofore referred to for completion within four months from date, pro.videdthe lumber required should be delivered on the ground
within forty days after the receipt of the bill therefor by
Child, the representative of defendant. The testimony establishes the fact that this bill was delivered to Child within
a day or two after thme signing of the contract,.and the only
testimony in respect to the delivery of the lumber makes it
clear that it was not delivered within forty days thereafter.
The stipulation for the completion of the work within four
monthis became, tlyerefore, inoperatrve, and that, through no

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. -EATON.
Statement of the Case.

fault of the Iron Works.

An instruction like that asked was

misleading and improper.
It is obvious, from these considerations, that the proceedings in this court were for delay Under clause 2 of Rule 23
of this court,
It 's ordered zn -No. 356, a supersedeas bond havng been
given, that the judgment be ajflrmed and that ten per cent
damages, 2n addition, to 'nterest, be awarded. In No.
357, as ths court has no-jumsdiction by writ of error over
the proceedings, all we can do ss to dismzss the case, and
such s the order

PAOIFIO NATIONAL BANK v. R>ATON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
Neo239.

Argued March 23,24,1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

-Delano v. Butler, 118 U. S. 634, and Aspinwall v. Butler, 133 U. S. 595, affirmed
and applied to a case where a shareholder in the bank, having subscribed
her proportional share to the doubling of its capital and paid therefor,
took out no certificate for the new stock and demanded back the money
so paid.
A subscription to stock in a national bank, and payment in full on the subscription and entry.of the subscriber's name on the books as a stockholder, constitutes the subscriber a shareholder without taking out a
certificate.

THiS. was an action at law to recover from the Pacific
National Bank an amount paid in as a subscription to .an
increase of its stock. The circumstances which induced the
call for the increase are stated fully in Delano v Butler, 118
U. S. 634, and Aspznwall v Butler, 133 U. S. 595. The plaintiff below, (defendant in error,) owning forty shares of $100
each, subscribed for an equal amount in the proposed increase of
$500,000, and paid in the money Owing to the fact that some
stockholders declined to take the new stock, the actual amount

