OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

The case is not like that of a deed for lands, which has no
force, and is not a deed, and passes no estate, until it is delivered. In that case everything depends on the delivery But
with capital stock it is different. Without express regulation
to the contraf. , a person becomes a stockholder by subscribing for stock, paying the amount to the company or its proper
officer, and being entered on the stock book as a stockholder.
He may take out a certificate or not, as he sees fit. Millions
of dollars of capital stock are held without any certificate, or,
if certificates are made out, without their ever being delivered.
A certificate is authentic evidence of title to stock, but it is
not the stock itself, nor is it necessary to the existence of the
stock. It certifies to a fact which exists independently of
itself. And an actual subscription is not necessary
There
may be a virtual subscription, deducible from the acts and
conduct of the party
The whole matter with regard to the new stock of the
Pacific Natipnal Bank of Boston was so fully discussed m the
cases of Delano and Aspznwall that it would be a work of
supererogation to prolong this opinion. The judgment of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts is
Revepsed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings,
not 'nconstetent with thi opznon.

THAYER v. BUTLER.
ERRO:R TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTM'CT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 300.

Argued lMarcb 23, 24, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.

Pacific NationalBank. y. Eaton, ante, 227, aflirmed and applied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr- J H. Bentoqi, Jr., for plaintiff in error.

.Ur A. A. Ranney for defendant in error.

THAYER v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. TUSTICE

BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action -brought by the receiver of the Pacific
National Bank of Boston against George L. Thayer, trustee,
to recover one hundred per cent of the amount of his capital
stock, in said bank upon his individual liability as a stockholder
under section 5151 of the Revised Statutes. The amount sued
for was $8000 (with the interest thereon), being 84000, the
amount of forty shares of stock held by him, as trustee, prior
to September, 1881, and $4000 for new stock subscribed for
and taken by him, as alleged by the plaintiff, in September,
1881, as and for his, the said Thayer's share and proportion of
the new stock issued at that time, as shown in the preceding
case just decided, and in the case of Delano v. Butler and
Aspsnwall v Butler, there referred to. His liability to pay
the $4000 upon the original stock was not disputed, and judgment for that amount, with interest, was rendered by consent.
But Thayer denied any liability by reason of the new stock,
denying that it was his stock, and claimtng a set-off for the
money ($4000) which it was conceded he had paid therefor, on
the ground that he only paid for stock which was to form part
of an increased capital of $500,000, and no such increase was
ever made. The case is in all respects similar to that of Paeifr
N'ational Bank v. .Mary J Eaton, ante-, 227, just decided.
A jury being waived, the cause was tried by the court upon an
agreed statement of facts, in addition to which the plaintiff
(below) produced the testimony of 11r. Thayer himself, giving
the particulars of his acts in relation to the new stock, which
elicited nothing important, and which the court disregarded in
coming to its conclusion. The statement of facts contained
the same facts which were received in evidence in the case of
Pacfic NSational Bank v Zaton, ante, 227, just decided, and
in addition thereto a lise of payments on account of the new
stock, with the date of each payment, a copy of the report of
the bank examiner, Needham, dated November 18, 1881, a
copy of minutes of meetings of the directors of the bank
December 10, 1881, and December 14, 1881, copy of letters
from the comptroller of the currency to the bank examiner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

December, 13, 1881, and from the examiner to the comptroller,
December 14, 1881, and minutes of directors' meeting January 2, 1882. This additional evidence had relation mostly to
the voluntary assessment, and to the question of the resumption of business -by the bank, and has no further effect upon
the present controversy than as going to show, perhaps, good
faith on the part .of the directors of the bank. We do not
think,however, that it alters.the case in the slightest degree,
so far as the question of the plaintiff in error's liability for the
ntw stock is concerned.
It appears from the agreed statement of facts that, after the
directors of the bank had voted, on the 13th of September,
1881, to increase the capital stock from $500,000 to $1,000,000,
and notice to that effect had been sent out to the stockholders,
giving to each a right to take the new stock at par in equal
amounts to that then held by them, Thayer, the plaintiff
in error, went to the bank and paid $4000 from the trust
money in his hands, belonging to the same trust for which he
already held the original forty shares, and received therefor a
receipt, a copy of which is as follows
"'Pacific National Bank.
Sep. 28.
"$4000
"BOSTON, Obtober lst, 1881.
"Received of Geo. L. Thayer, trustee, four thousand dollars
on account of subscription to new stock.
.4J M. P rExGiLL, Cashwr"
He also, at the same time, acting for Mary J. Eaton (the
;defendant in error in the case just decided), who had forty
shares of the capital stock of the bank, paid the same amount
for her, and took a similar receipt to her.
As stated in the previous case, certificates for the new stock
-were made out in. a book, with stubs to indicate their contents,
and were. delivered to the stockholders as they called for them.
Such a certificate was made out for Mr. Thayer, bat he never
called 'for it, though he was registered in the stock book of

THAYER v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

the bank as owner thereof.
and yet is, as follows

The entry in the stock book was,

Geo. L. Thayer, trustee, Boston.
1880..
Sep. L To 40 shares, 40 ...... 4,000

1878.
Jan. 16. By 40 shares, 40.....4,000
1880.
Jan. 1. "40
do. 40 ...... 4,000
1881.
Oct. 1.
"40
do. 40 ...... 4,000'

The accounts with other shareholders were similar in form
to this, and the bank kept no other list of the names and residences of its shareholders and the number of shares held by
each. At what time the certificates or the entries in the stock
book were made does not appear except by the books. Section 5210 of the Revised Statutes requires that "The president
and cashier of every national banking association shall cause
to be kept at all times a full and correct list of the names and
residences of all the shareholders in the association, and the
number of shares held by each, in the office where its business
is transacted." And the statement of facts states that"The president and- cashier of the bank began to issue certificates for stock in the proposed increase on October 1, 1881,
and thereafter issued them from time to time as called for to
those who had paid,-and on November 18, 1881, certificates

bearing date Oct. 1, 1881, representing all but three hundred
and fifty-four shares of the $461,370, had been thus delivered
and the shares credited to the accounts of the respective parties on or as of October 1, 1881, on the stock ledger of the
bank."
We think it is sufficiently manifest that the certificates were
made out, and that the entry was made in the stock book before the failure of the bank, and before the plaintifr in error had
signified to any officer of the.bank his dissatisfaction at what
he had done in the matter of subscribing for the new stock.
The final displosition of the case is shown by the following
extract from the record
"'The defendant objected to the evidence embraced in the

.238

OCTOBER TERI, '1890.
Opinion of the Court.

,agreed statement of facts that his name was without his
knowledge placed upon the stock ledger, and that the.certificate was made'in his name without his knowledge as owner of
forty shares of the so-called new stock, and also objected to
the evidence of the correspondence between the bank examiner
and comptroller, and reports of the bank examiner to the
comptroller, and to the evidence of the proceedings at the
annual meeting on January 10, 1882, and to evidence of all
other proceedings subsequent to the demand made by the
defendant for the return of the money paid September 28,
and asked the court to rule that none of these matters were
competent evidence against him, and also to rule that he was
not bound by the entries made upon the books of the corporation, of which he had no actual knowledge. He also objected
to evidence showing that certificates were issued purporting to
represent stock in the proposed' increase before the failure of
the 'bank, on Ngvember 18, 1881, and asked the court to rule
that that .fact was not competent as against him. He also
asked the court to rule and hold the law, as stated in the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in Baton v.
.Patcfic _aftona Bank,.reported in. 144 Mass. Supreme'Court
Reports, page 260, and to rule and hold that the vote of the
directors of September 13, 1881, was in the nature of a proposition to stockholders to subscribe for 5000 shares of new
stock and to pay in for it $500,000, that it was necessary that
the stock should all be taken and the money all paid in before
the new stock could be created, and that -it was a condition
precedent to the isgue of -the new stock under this vote that
both these things should be -done, and that. the comptroller
should certify that they had been done, and approve of the
increase, and that the defendant paid the. money to the bank
on. September 28, 1881, upon the implied condition that he
should 'not be required to take new stock unless the proposed
amount of 5000 shares were created, and that as this was not
done the defendant did not become a shareholder in respect
of the forty shares for which he paid September 28, 1881, and
for the assessment upon which the plaintiff seeks to recover.
"The-defendant also requested the court to hold and rule

THAYER v. BUTLER.
"Opnion-of the Court.

that the vote of the directors of December 13, 1881, was in
law an abandonment of the proposed increase of 5000 shares
and the authorization of an increase by the issue of 4613
shares, and that the act of the directors in including the
amount the defendant had paid in to increase the capital by
the issue of 5000 shares in the amount necessary to increase
the capital by 4613 shares did not affect .the defendant's legal
relations with the bank and make him a shareholder in the
increase of 4613 shares.
"The defendant also requested the court to find and rule
upon the whole case that he was liable to pay an assessment
only upon the forty shares of original stock held by him in
the bank, and was not liable to pay the assessment claimed on
the forty shares of alleged new stock placed in his name, as
set forth in the admitted facts.
"The court declined to rule and find as thus requested, but
did find and rule upon the facts agreed by the parties and
found by the court as facts, as hereinabove set forth, 'as a
conclusion of law based upon the admitted facts, 'without reference to the testimony of Thayer that the stock of the bank
was lawfully increased from $500,000 to $961,300, and that all
the proceedings resulting in such increase were valid and binding on the defendant, and that by virtue of his payment of
$4000, on September 28, 1881, he became a holder of forty
shares in the new stock, and that he was therefore liable to
assessment upon those shares as well as upon the forty shares
originally held by him, and ordered judgment for the plaintiff
for the amount of the assessment on 80 shares of stock.'
As the case is in 'all essential respects like that of Pacijic
.National Bank v Eaton, ante, 227, just decided, and as we
fully expressed our views upon the qiuestions at issue in that
case, it is unnecessary for us to repeat what was 'there said.
We are of opinion that the decision of the Circuit Court was
correct, and that there is no error in the record.
The judgment is, therefore,
Affirvied.

