OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts direct
to the Supreme Court in the following cases.
"In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in
issue."

It is urged that when the copy of the record in the suit in
the state court was entered in the Circuit Court a case was pending therein, and when the objections to the jurisdiction were
presented, the jurisdiction of the court was put in issue. This
provision of the act of 1891 has been passed upon by this court
in the case of -MeLzs v Rof, just decided, ante, 661. In that.
case the motion to dismiss the writ of error was granted, upQn
the ground that the provision authorizing appeals or writs of
error -to be taken direct to this court, "in any case in which
the jurisdiction of the court is in issue," does not make an
appeal or writ of error allowable before the cause has proceeded to final judgment. It is, therefore, our opli6n that
the revisory power of this court cannot be invoked on this
record although, by the motion to remand, the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court was put in issue.
Dismissed.
The writ of error is

SINGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. WRIGHT.
AFPPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 13. Argued April 14,1891.-Decided December 7, 1891.

The payment, whether voluntary or compulsory, of a tax, to prevent the
payment of which a bill in equity has been filed, leaves no issue for the
court to pass upon in that case.
Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547 followed.

THE court stated the case as follows
The appellant, the complainant below, is a corporation
formed under the laws of New Jersey The defendant Wright
is the comptroller-general of the State of Georgia, and the

SINGER MANUFACTURING CO. v. WRIGHT.

697

Statement of the 'Case.

defendant Thomas the sheriff of one of its counties, both
citizens of that. State. The complainant is engaged, in New
Jersey, in the manufacture of sewing machines and articles
employed in their use. These it sends, and has been in the
habit of sending for many years, to Georgia, where it keeps
on hand in its buildings a large stock and sells them to consumers, or by sub-agents sent through the State.
In December, 1886, the legislature of Georgia passed an act
to raise revenue for the fiscal years of 1887 and 1888, which,
among other things, provided for the collection of a license
tax from the vendors of sewing machines in the State.
The bill alleges that in this tax the act discriminates between
retail dealers who are individuals, and dealers who are companies or wholesale dealers in machines on which the tax
required has not been paid by the manufacturing companies,
in this, that it requires of the latter the payment of two hundred dollars for the purpose of doing business in the State,
and in addition a tax of ten dollars for each agent employed,
Whilst of the former no tax at all is required. It is, therefore,
contended that the act, in this respect, violates the. 7th article
of the state constitution, requiring uniformity of taxation
upon the same class of subjects, and also the last clause in the
1st section of the 14th Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares that no State shall "deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws,' and thereby imiposes a limitation upon all the powers
of the State which can touch the individual or his property
The bill sets forth, in substance, that, notwithstanding these
alleged grounds of invalidity in the law, the comptrollqr
general of the State is seeking to enforce the collection, of the
tax, and has placed, or is about to place, for this purpose,
executions in the hands of the defendant Thomas, sheriff of
Fulton County It therefore prays for an injunction staying
the proceedings until the further order of the court, and that
upon the final hearing the comptroller may be perpetually
enjoined from issuing any execution for the collection of the
tax.
The comptroller general answered the bill, and upon fhe

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

hearing which followed the court denied the injunction and
dismissed the bill. 33 Fed. iRep. 121. From its decree the
case was brought to this court on appeal:
[Before the case was reached the appellees' counsel represented to the court that the executions issued by the comptroller general for taxes due the State of Georgia, when the
bill in said case was filed by the appellant, and to enjoin the
collection of which taxes was the relief sought by said bill,
had been paid by said appellant since the decree appealed
from was rendered - as shown by the certificate of said
comptroller general attached, as an exhibit thereto
and
moved "that said appeal be dismissed for the reason that
abstract questions of law only are now involved in said case,
and that the only remedy remaining to said appellant is to
bring a suit against the said comptroller general for the
recovery of said taxes so paid to him under protest." The
argument on this motion was heard with the argument on the
merits.]
.Mr Clifford Anderson for the motion, and for the appellees.
.M& Grosvenor P Lowrey and .Xr George Hillyer (with
whom was .Ar Joseph S. Auerback on the brief) opposing,
and for the appellant.
The payment of the disputed tax was involuntary, and
affords no ground for inferring any.waiver or release of errors,
or other admission by the appellant, inconsistent with the
continued prosecution of its appeal.
I. This court has repeatedly decided that a payment by a
party "to release his property from detention" is not a voluntary payment. Railroad Co. v Comm zioner, 98 U. S. 541,
Cleaveland v R'ihardson, 132 IT. S. 318.
IL Submission to legal process after exhausting the only
remedy in the law which could prevent its issue or enforcement,
was no waiver, either of the right to enforce restitution by
action or by appeal, or of the right to appeal from the original
refusal of the remedy The complainant resisted first in court
and then out of court, and on each occasion to the thean extent

SINGER MANUFACTURING CO. v.WRIGHT.

699

Opumon of the Court.

of its power. Its ill success showed no acquiescence on its
part, but was eloquent of resistance, persisted in and intended
to be continued. "Resistance to the extent of a man's power,"
says a distinguished jurist, "is certainly a i w kind of waiver."
Avery v Slack, 17 Wend. 85, .fJemam v. Hlaas, 3 Wall. 687,
United States v. Dashzel, 3 Wall. 688, Ilayes v IAourse, 107
N. Y. 577, O'larav .71acConnell, 93 U. S. 150.
III. In the case of an appeal in New Jersey, from a denial
of a temporary injunction, it was urged that the act sought
to be enjoined had been accomplished. ]Held, that this did
not prevent a review of the order appealed from. Terhune v
-MidlandRailroad,9 Stewart, (36 N. J. Eq.) 318.
I-V The present motion is clearly distinguishable from the
case of .ittle v Bowers, 1341 U. S. 547. It there appeared
that on cer'iorarz certain -assessments for taxes were confirmed. The Federal question involved in the writ of error
in this court was, whether these assessments impaired the
obligation of a contract.
It appeared on the motion to dismiss that the taxes had
been reduced and readjusted under an act passed after the
certiorai, and this reduced amount had been paid before any
warrant had been issued for their collection and several months
before such warrantcould have been issued, or any proceedings
to compel payment could have been commenced.
This court in dismissing the writ of error held that the taxes
were'not paid under duress. "Their payment under the circumstances above set forth was in the nature of a compromise
by which the city agreed to take and the company agreed. to
pay a less sum than originally assessed. The effect of this,
act was to extinguish the controversy between the parties to
this suit."
MR. JusTIE.

Finny, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We are relieved from a consideration of the interesting questions prtsented as to the validity of the legislation of Georgia,
levying;a license tax upon dealers ijn sewing machines, arising

OCTOBER TER-l,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

from the alleged discrimination made between retail dealers
who are individuals and retail dealers who are companies, or
wholesale dealers in such machines, where the tax required
has not been paid by the manufacturing companies, as the
taxes, to enjoin the collection of which this suit was instituted,
have been paid by the complainant since the decree dismissing
the bill was entered. This appears from the certificate of the
comptroller general and the representation of the attorney
general of the State, accompanied by copies of the writs of
execution on which they were collected, with the receipts of
the sheriff endorsed thereon. The taxes being paid, the further
prosecution of this suit to enjoin their collection would present
only a moot question, upon which we have neither the right
nor the inclination to express an opinion.
This subject was considered somewhat at length in Zittle v.
Bowers, 134 U. S. 547. The payment of the taxes was, it is
true, made under protest, the complainant declaring at the
tune that they were illegal, and that it was not liable for
them, that the payment was made under compulsion of the
writs, and that it intended to demand, sue for and recover
back the amounts paid. If this enforced collection and protest were sufficient to preserve to the complainant the right
to proceed for the restitution of the money, upon proof of the
illegality of the taxes, such redress must be sought m an action
at law It does not continue in existence the equitable remedy
by injunction which was sought in the present suit. The
equitable ground for the relief prayed ceased with the payment of the taxes.
The appealmust therefore be dismsssed, and it s so ordered.

