OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND OMAEA
RAILWAY COMPANY v. ROBERTS.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MIINESOTA.

No. 1417. Submitted November 16, 1891.- Decided December 7, 1891.

This court has no jurisdiction to review in error or on appeal, in advance
of the final judgment in the cause on' the merits, an order of a Circuit
Court of the United States remanding the cause to the state court
from which it had been removed into the Circuit Court.
AfcLish v. Roff, ante, 661, affirmed and followed.

THE court stated the case as follows
This is a motion to dismiss the writ of error herein for want
of jurisdiction, with which is united a motion to afrm the
judgment of the court below The case is this On the 1st of
November, 1890, the defendant in error, John Roberts, brought
an action in a state court of Minnesota against the Chicago,
St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railway Company, to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have been sustained in consequence of the negligence of the company, while
he was in its employ as a fireman on one of its locomotives,
ruqnnmg between the city of St. Paul and the village of St.
James in that State. The damages were laid at $30,000.
The railway company very soon thereafter (the exact date
not appearing from the record) filed with the clerk of the
state court, without notice to the court at all) its petition and
bond for the removal of the cause into the United States Circuit Court for the district of Minnesota on the ground of diverse
citizenship of the parties, and on the 3d of November of that
year there was filed in the Circuit Court a certified transcript
of the record from the state court, under the hand and seal of
the. clerk of the state court. On the same day the railway
company filed an answer in the Circuit Court to the merits of
the action. Up to this time there does not appear to have

CHICAGO, ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY v. ROBERTS.

691

Argument against the Mlotions.

been any order entered in the state court touching the. removal, nor even that the state court was aware of the petition
for removal having been filed. Nor does it appear that the
Circuit Court's attention had as yet been called to the case.
On the 13th of January, 1891, the plaintiff entered a-special
appearance in the Circuit Court, for the purpose of objecting to
the jurisdiction of that court, and moved that the cause be remanded to the state court for the following reasons (1) The
action was not, and never had been, in the Circfiit Court, (2)
the action was never removed from the state court, (3) a
judgment had been duly rendered and entered in the state
court in the cause, in favor of the plaintiff and against the
defendant, and within the past fifteen days, and since the filing
of a transcript of the record in the Circuit Court, the defendant
appeared in the action in the state court, and did therein, on
the 3d of January, 1891, move the state court to have the
aforesaid judgment against it vacated and set aside, which
motion was then pending, upon its merits, in the state court,
and argument upon it had baen continued, by consent of both
parties, until January 17, 1891, and (4) by making said motion
and said appearance in the state court, the defendant submitted
itself to the jurisdiction of the state court in the action, and
thereby waived any and all right which it possessed to a
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court.
Argument was had on this motion, and, on the 31st of
March, 1891, the Circuit Court entered an order sustaining the
motion and remanding the cause to the state court. 45 Fed.
IRep. 433. To reverse that order this writ of error is prosecuted.
M1r J 1. MacDonald, Mb' TV A. Day and Mr If P
Montague for the motions.
J[r Enoch Totten, 3& J H. Rowe and .Mr
opposing.

.

. Permn

The act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, provides,
among other things, as follows
"SEc. 4. That no appeal, whether by writ of error or other-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Argument against the 'Motions.

wise, shall hereafter be taken or allowed from any District
Court to the existing Circuit Courts, and no appellate jurisdiction shall hereafter be exercised or allowed by said existing
Circuit Courts, but all appeals by writ of error otherwise from
said District Courts shall only be subject to review in the
Supreme Court of the United States or in the Circuit Court of
Appeals hereby established, as is hereinafter provided, and
the revew, by appeal, by wrt of error or otherwime,from the
elsting circut Courts shall be had only in the Supreme Court
-of the United States or sn the Circuit Courts of Appeals
hereby established, according to the.prowszons of thts act regulating the same.
"SEC. 5. That appeals or writs of error may be taken from
the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts direct
to the Supreme Court in the following cases
"12 any case -n whsch the jusdiction of the court ss in
issue."1
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courl an- nothing else is in
issue here. If the removal proceedings taken were ineffectual
to divest the state court of jurisdiction, then the Circuit Court
was without jurisdiction. The Circuit Court held that these
proceedings did not give it jurisdiction, and the writ of error
has brought here for review that question, and that question
alone. It cannot be said that any other question was in issue
in the Circuit Court. When the "copy of the record m such
suit" was entered in the Circuit Court a "case" was pending
-therein, and when the objections to the jurisdiction were presented, the jurisdiction of the court was put in issue. If.
this
writ of error as dismissed, this court must hold that there is
one class of cases in which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
may be demed without a right of review, while the statute
says a right of review shall exist in "any case" where that
question is involved.
It is argued in behalf of the motion to dismiss that that
part of the act of 1888 which makes final the orders of a
Circuit Court remanding causes to state courts is not repealed
by the act of lMarch 3, 1891. But this cannot be true. The
whole system of appellate power is fully covered and regulated

CHICAGO, ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAYv . ROBERTS.

693

Opinion of the Court.

by the last-named act. In addition to this, the fourteenth
section expressly repeals all acts and parts of acts inconsistent
with that act. It is also argued that if there is a power of
review it is in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The Circuit
Court of Appeals is empowered by the sixth section to review
the final decisions of the District Courts and the existing
Circuit Courts "in all cases other than those provided for in
the preceding section (,&.e. section five) of that act,"'which is
the section under which we are proceeding.
It is also argued in support of the motion that the provisions
of the act of March 3, 1891, giving this court jurisdiction to
review the judgments of the existing Circuit Courts in any
case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue, were not
intended to apply to cases where such jurisdiction depends
upon questions of practice, why not ? Every proceeding in
removal causes may, with propriety, be called a matter of
practice. The existence of a few jurisdictional facts is essential to removal, but the act of presenting them to the courts
is a matter of practice. Counsel mention, by way of illustration, jurisdictional questions which may arise out of imperfect
serving of process. Service of original process is a very important matter to the jurisdiction of every court known to the
common law, and we can see no reason why a question of
jurisdiction arising out of improper service of process should
not be as important as any other jurisdictional question. We
look into the statute in vain for any authority or even encouragement for such a distinction.
Nn. JUSTIcE LA:.% , after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The ground upon which the motion to dismiss is based is,
that the writ of error is not only not authorized, but is expressly
denied by the second section of the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1887, 2-4 Stat. 552, c. 373, as corrected by the act of
August 13,1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, the last paragraph of which
is as follows " Whenever any cause shall be removed from any
state court into any Circuit Court of the United States, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the Circuit Court shall decide that the cause was improperly
removed, and order the same to be remanded to the state
court from whence it came, such remand shall be immediately
carried into execution, and no appeal or writ of error from the
decision of the Circuit Court so remanding such cause shall be
allowed."
The question presented for our decision is, Has this court,
upon this record, the appellate jurisdiction to review the order
of the Circuit Court remanding the cause to the state court 2
The case of Jiorey v. Lockhart, 123 U. S. 56, 58, was an
appeal from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit
which was begun in,. and had been removed from, the state
court to the Circuit Court, after the act of March 3, 1887,
24: Stat. 552, c. 373, went into effect. A motion to dismiss
the appeal was filed, and was granted by this court, upon the
ground that "the order of the Circuit Court remanding the
cause to the state court -is
not a final judgment," citing Railroad Company v Tiswall, 23 Wall. 507. The court, in its
opinion, delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, after quoting
see. 2 of the act of 1887, said
"It is contended, however, that the prohibition against
appeals and writs of error in the act of 1887 applies only to
removals on account of prejudice or local influence, but that
cannot be so. The section of the statute in which the provision occurs has relation to removals generally, those for prejudice or local influence as well as those for other causes, and
the prohibition has no words of limitation. It is in effect that
no appeal or writ of error. shall be allowed from an order to
remand n ' any cause' removed ' from any state court into any
Circuit Court of the United States.'"
In, ,Richmozd & .Danville Railroad v Thouron, 134 U. S.
45, 46, 47, which was an appeal from the order of a Circuit
Court remanding the cause, to a state court, it was held that
an order remanding a cause from a Circuit Court of the United
States to the state court fitom which it was removed isnot a
final judgment or decre , and that this court has no jurisdictibn to review it,, and 'the motion to dismiss the appeal for
want of jurisdiction ;Ia- granted. In the opinion, delivered

CHICAGO, ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY v. ROBEITS.

695

Opinion of the Court.

by Chief Justice Fuller, the court said "Before the act of
1875, c. 137,,18 Stat. 470, we held that an order by the :Circuit Court remanding a cause was not such a final judgment
or decree in a civil action as to give us jurisdiction for its review by writ of error or appeal. The appropriate remedy in
such a case was then; by mandamus, to compel the Circuit
Court to hear and decide;" citing authorities. "The act of
1875 made, such order reviewable (without regard to the
pecuniary value of the matter in dispute), but by the act of
March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, 555, c. 373, as corrected by the
act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 333, c. 866, the provision to
that effect was repealed, and it was also provided that no
appeal or writ of error should be allowed from the decision of
the Circuit Court remanding a cause." And again. "The
words 'a final judgment or decree,' in this act, are manifestly
used in the same sense as in the prior statutes which have received interpretations, and these orders to remand were not
final judgments or decrees, whatever the ground upon which
the Circuit Court proceeded," citing Graves v Corbzn, 132
U. S. 571.
It is contended by counsel for plaintiff in error that thisappeal lies under ยง 4 and 5 of the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1891. 26 Stat. 826, c. 517. The fourth sectionand that part of the fifth relied on read as follows
"SEc. 4. That no appeal, whether by writ of error or otherwise, shall hereafter be taken or allowed from any District
Court to the existing Circuit Courts, and no appellate jurisdiction shall hereafter be exercised or allowed by said existing
Circuit Courts, but all appeals by writ of error otherwise [ss],
from said District Courts shall only be subject to review in
the Supreme Court of the United States or in the Circuit
Court of Appeals hereby established, as is hereinafter provided, and the review, by appeal, by writ of error, or other,vise, from the existing Circuit Courts shall be had only in the
Supreme Court of the United States or in the Circuit Courts
of Appeals hereby established, according to the provisions of
this act regulating the same.
"SFc. 5. That appeals or writs of irror may be taken from

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts direct
to the Supreme Court in the following cases.
"In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in
issue."

It is urged that when the copy of the record in the suit in
the state court was entered in the Circuit Court a case was pending therein, and when the objections to the jurisdiction were
presented, the jurisdiction of the court was put in issue. This
provision of the act of 1891 has been passed upon by this court
in the case of -MeLzs v Rof, just decided, ante, 661. In that.
case the motion to dismiss the writ of error was granted, upQn
the ground that the provision authorizing appeals or writs of
error -to be taken direct to this court, "in any case in which
the jurisdiction of the court is in issue," does not make an
appeal or writ of error allowable before the cause has proceeded to final judgment. It is, therefore, our opli6n that
the revisory power of this court cannot be invoked on this
record although, by the motion to remand, the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court was put in issue.
Dismissed.
The writ of error is

SINGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. WRIGHT.
AFPPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 13. Argued April 14,1891.-Decided December 7, 1891.

The payment, whether voluntary or compulsory, of a tax, to prevent the
payment of which a bill in equity has been filed, leaves no issue for the
court to pass upon in that case.
Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547 followed.

THE court stated the case as follows
The appellant, the complainant below, is a corporation
formed under the laws of New Jersey The defendant Wright
is the comptroller-general of the State of Georgia, and the

