OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

MASSACHUSETTS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY -WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. MASSACHUSETTS.'
MASSACHUSETTS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY-k--WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
MASSACHUSETTS v. WESTERN UNION TtLEGRAPH
COIPANY -WESTERN UNION TELFGRAPH COMPANY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
A1PEALS AND CROSS APPEAMS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
UNITED STATES FOR
Nos. 1126, 1127, 1128, 1129, 1130, 1131.

THE DISTRICT OF AFASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January 19, 20, 1891.-Decided Ifay 25,1891.

The tax imposed by the statutes of Massachusetts, (Pub. Stat. c. 13, §§ 40,
j 42,) requiring every telegraph company owning a line of telegraph within
the State to pay to the state treasurer "a tax upon its corporate franclse at a valuation thereof equal to the aggregate value of the shares in
its capital stock," deducting such portion of that valuation as is proportional to the length of its lines without the State, 'and deducting also an
amount equal to the value of its real estate and machinery subject to
local taxation within the State, is in effect a tax upon the corporation on
.account of property owned'and used by it within the State; and is constitutional and valid, as applied to a telegraph company incorporated by
another State, and which has accepted the rights conferred by Congress
by § 5263 of the Revised Statutes.
lestern Union Telegrapi Company v. Attorney Generalof Massachusetts, 125
U. S. 530, followed.
Upon rendering a decree for the plaintiff in a suit in equity, brought in behalf of a State, pursuant to statute, to recover the amount of a tax with
interest thereon a' the rate of twelve per cent until paid, a sum-tendered
and paid into court by the defendant, for part of that amount and interest thereon at that rate, is to be applied to the payment of both principal
and interest .of the sum so admittedj to be due; interest at the rate of
twelve per cent is to be computed on the rest of the principal until the
date of the decree; and from that date interest on the lawful amount of
the decree is to be c9mputed at the ordinary rate of six per cent only,
notwithstanding the final disposition of the case is delayed by appeal.
I In "thesecases the Iducket title was in all the cases "The Attorney General of the State of Massachusetts" instead of "M[assachusetts."

MASS. v. WESTERN UN. TEL. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

1r
.r'
pany

fenry Cf. Bli/s for the State of Massachusetts.
Wager Swayne for the Western Union Telegraph Com-

Mn. JuSTioE GR&Y delivered the opinion of the court.

Three informations in equity were filed in the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, by the Attorney General at
the relation of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth, against
the Western Union Telegraph Company, a corporation of
New York, under section 54 of chapter 13 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts, for the recovery of taxes assessed to the
-defendant for the years 1886, 1887 and 1888, under other sections of that chapter, and interest thereon at the rate of twelve
per cent a year until paid, and for an injunction against the
defendant's prosecution of its business until payment of such
taxes and interest.
Upon petition of the defendant, alleging that the matter in
-dispute arose under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, the three suits -were removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States, and were there heard upon pleadings and
proofs, and decrees entered for the amounts of the taxes and
interest, deducting certain sums paid into court by the defendant, and granting no injunction. Both parties appealed to
this court.
These cases cannot be distinguished from that of Western
Unton Teegraph Co. v Attorney GeneraZ of XAassackusetts,
125 U. S. 530, in which the validity of similar taxes was upheld in a judgment delivered by Mr. Justice Miller with no
dissent.
The Constitution of Massachusetts, c. 1, see. 1, art. 4, empowers the legislature "to impose and levy proportional and
reasonable assessments, rates and taxes, upon all the inhabitants of, and persons resident, and estates lying within, the
said Commonwealth, and also to impose and levy reasonable
duties and excises upon any produce, goods, wares, merchan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

dise and commodities whatsoever, brought into, produced.
manufactured or being within the same." 1 Charters and
Constitutions, 961.
The statutes, pursuant to which the taxes now in question
were assessed and sought to be collected, are set forth an full
in 125 U. S. 531-534, note, and the material provisions of them
are as follows
By § 38, "every corporation chartered by the Commonwealth, or organized under the general laws, for purposes
of business or profit, having a capital stock divided into
shareb," (with certain exceptions,) shall annually return. to the
tax commissioner a list of its shareholders and the number of
shares belonging to each, the amount of its capital stock, the
par value and market value of the shares, and the locality and
value of its real estate and machinery subject to local taxation
within the Commonwealth, and "railroad and telegraph companies shall return the whole length of their lines, and the
length of so much of their lines as is without the Commonwealth."
By § 39, the tax commissioner shall ascertain the true market value of the shares of each corporation, and estimate the
fair cash valuation of all the shares constituting its capital
stock, and shall also ascertain and determine the value of its
real estate and machinery subject to local taxation, and of the
deductions provided in § 40.
By § 40, "every corporation embraced in the provisions of
section thirty-eight shall annually pay a tax upon its corporate
franchise at a valuation thereof equal to the aggregate value
of the shares in its calital stock, as determined in the preceding section, after making the deductions provided for in thi
section, at a rate determined by an apportionment of thewhole
amount of money to be raised by taxation upon, property in
the Commonwealth during the same current year," "upon
the aggregate valuation of all the cities and towns for the
preceding year." "From the valuation, ascertained and determined as aforesaid, there shall be deducted First, in case of
railroad and telegraph companies, whose lines extend beyond
the limits of the Commonwealth, such portion of the whole

MASS. v. WESTERIN UN. TEL. CO.
Opnion -of the Court.

valuation of their capital stock, ascertained as aforesaid, as is
proportional to the length of that part of their line lying without the Commonwealth, and also an amount equal to the value,
as determined by the tax commissioner, of their real estate
and machinery located and subject to local taxation within
the Commonwealth. Second, in case of other corporations,
included in section thirty-eight of this chapter, an amount
equal to the value, as determined by the tax commissioner, of
their real estate and machinery subject to local taxation,
wherever situated."
By § 42, "every corporation or association, chartered or
organized elsewhere, which owns, or controls and uses, under
lease or otherwise, a line' of telegraph within this Commonwealth," shall make all the returns prescribed by § 38, excepting the list of shareholders, "and shall annually pay a tax, at
the same rate, and to be ascertained and determined in the
same manner," as is provided in § 40.
By § 54, taxes assessed under § 40 and 42 may be recovered, "with interest at the rate of twelve per cent per annum
until the same are paid," by action in the name of the treasurer of the Commonwealth, or by information at his relation
in the Supreme Judicial Court.
It is to be remembered that by the tax act of Massachusetts
"taxes on, real estate shall be assessed in the city or town
where the estate lies ;," and "all machinery employed in any
branch of manufacture, shall be assessed'where such machinery is situated or employed, and, in assessing the stockholders
for their shares in any manufacturing corporation, there shall
first be deducted from the value thereof the value of the
machinery and real estate belonging to such corporation."
Mass. Pub. Stat. c. 11, §§ 13, 20. Although it is hard to see
how telegraph companies .can have "machinery employed -in
any branch of manufacture," unless they make their own
machines, yet railroad corporations, which are coupled with
telegraph companies in the statutes in question, as well as
other corporations embraced in those statutes, might have
such machinery
The effect of the statutes complained of is that every tele-

OCTOBER TERMV, 1890.
Opinion of thA Court.

graph company, whether incorporated in Massachusetts or
elsewhere, owning a line of telegraph in Massachusetts, is to
be there taxed on such proportion only of the whole value of
its capital stock as the length of its line in Massachusetts bears
to the whole length of its lines everywhere, and to prevent
its whole tax In Massachusetts from amounting in any event
to more than that, it is provided that from the taxable portion
of the value of its capital, so ascertained, shall be deducted
the value of any property owned by it in Massachusetts which
]s subject to local taxation in the cities and towns.
Such being the real state of the case, all the objections to
the validity of the tax are met and disposed of by the decision
of this court in the former case between- these parties.
In that case, as in this, the telegraph company, while admitting that its property in the State of Massachusetts was
subject to taxation there like other property, argued that, by
reason of its. having 4ccepted the provisions of the act of July
24, 1866, c. 230, (14 Stat. 221,). now embodied in §§ 5263-5269
of the Revised Statutes, and having thus acquired under § 5263
"the right to construct, maintain and operate lines of telegraph through and over any portion of the public domain of
the United States, over and along any of the railway or post
roads of the United States, and over, under or across the navigable streams or waters of the United States," it had a franchise from the United States which could not be taxed by any
State through which its lines ran, that the statutes of Massachusetts, in terms and effect, undertook to tax the franchises
of the corporation, and that the tax was unconstitutional and
void, both as interfering with interstate commerce and as being unequal and excessive.
But this court,. in answering that argument and upholding
the validity of the tax, affirmed the following propositions
The franchise of the company to be a corporation, and to
carry on the business of telegraphing, was derived not from
the act of Congress, but from the laws of the State of New
York, under which it was organized, and it never could have
been intended by -the Congress of the United States, in conferring upon a corporation of one State the authority to enter

MASS. v. WESTERN UN. TEL. CO.
Opimon of the Court.

the territory of any other State, and to erect its poles and
lines therein, to establish the proposition that such a company
owed no obedience to the laws of the State into which it thus
entered, and was under no obligation to pay its fair proportion
of the taxes necessary to the support of the government of
that State. 125 U S. 547, 548.
By whatever name the tax may be called, as described in
the laws of Massachusetts, it is essentially an excise upon the
capital of the corporation, and those laws attempt to ascertain the just amount which -any corporation engaged in business within its limits shall pay as a contribution to the support
of its government upon the amount and value of the cai "-tal
so employed by it therein. 125 U. S. 54:7.
The tax, though nominally upon the shares of the capital
stock of the company, is in effect a tax upon that organization
on account of property owned and used by it in the State of
Massadhusetts, and the proportion of the length of its lines in
that State to their entire length throughout the whole country
is made the-basis for ascertaining the value of that property
Such a tax is not forbidden by the acceptance on the part of
the telegraph company of the rights conferred by § 5263 of
the Revised Statutes, or by the commerce clause of the Constitution. 125 U. S.552.
The statute of Massachusetts is intended to govern the taxation of all corporations doing business within its territory,
whether organized under its own laws or under those of some
other State, and the rule adopted to ascertain the amount of
the value of the capital engaged in that business within its
boundaries, on which the tax should be assessed, is not an
unfair or unjust one, and the details of the method by which
tis was determined have not exceeded the fair range of legislative discretion. 125 U. S.553.
That decision was cited by the court in 1?a~tekman v Tlestern Unwon Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, 426, 427, and in
Leoup v. ._A-o1ile, 127 U. S.640, 649.
The other questions argued relate to the amounts for .which
decrees were entered. In each case, the defendant admitted
its liability to pay a tax on the actual value, as stated in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

answer, of its real and personal property within the State,
and tendered, and paid into court, the sum so admitted to be
due, with interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent, and
costs. The sum so paid in was greater than like interest then
accrued on the whole amount of the tax assessed and sued for.
The court added, to the whole amount of the tax sued for,
interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent to the date of
the payment into court, deducted from the sum so ascertained
the sum paid in, and entered' a decree for the balance, with
interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent from the date
of such payment to the date of the decree, and, thereafter
until payment, interest on the amount of the decree at the
rate of six per cent, that being the usual rate of interest in
Massachusetts.
It is contended, in behalf of the State, that the tender and
payment into court could have no effect in a suit of this kind
to recover a tax,. with.interest thereon at the rate of twelve
per cent in the nature of a penalty, and that such interest
must be computed at that rate, not merely to the time of the
decree below, but to the time of payment, or at least to the
time of the final decree in this court. On the other hand, it
is contended that the sum paid into court should have been
applied, according to the evident intention of the defendant in
paying it, to botli principal and interest of the sum admitted
to be due, instead of applying it to interest, on the whole
claim sued for, and thereby increasing the sum on which to
compute subsequent interest.
We -are of opinion that in this matter the defendant is
right. In equity, at least, the defendant was entitled to the
benefit of the sum paid into court. That sum should have
been applied to that part of the principal sum and interest
which was admitted to -be due. After the payment into
court, as before, interest at the rate- of twelve per cent was
to be computed on the rest of the principal. The penal
rate of twelve per cent interest ran only until the amount
to be recovered wAs judicially -scertamed. Since the date
of the decree below, interest is tQ be computed on the lawful amount of the decree at the rate of six per cent only

CRUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the Case.

In each of the three cases, therefore, the entry must
be
Decreereversed, and case remanded with directions to enter a
decreefor the amount of the taxfound due by te Circuit
Court, but apjly~ng the sum pazd into court, and computwng 2.terest on the balance, rn accordance wztA the ojne'on
of thms court, the costs n ths court. to be equally divzded
between the parties.
MR.

JusTicE FIELD

and MR. JUSTICE HARzAN dissented.

ORUTCHER v. KENTUCKY.
ERRORTO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF XENTUCKY.
No. 828.

ArguedMarch 19, 1890.-Decided Mtay 2 , 1891.

The act of the legislature of Kentucky of March 2, 1860, " to regulate
agencies of foreign express companies," which provides that the agent
of an express company not incorporated by the laws of that State shall
not carry on business there without first obtaining a license from the
State, and that, preliminary thereto, he shall satisfy the auditor of the
State that the company he represents is possessed of an actual capital of
at least $150,000, and that if he engages in quch busines without license
he shall be subject to fine, is a regulation of interstate commerce so far
as applied to a corporation of another State engaged in that business,
and is, to that extent, repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.

Tim case wat stated by the -court as follows.
This case arose at Frankfort, Franklin County, Kentucky,
upon an. indictment found against Crutcher, the plaintiff in
error, in the Franklin Circuit Court, for acting and doing business as agent for the United States .Express Company, alleged
to be an express company not incorporated by the laws of
Kentucky, but trading and doing business as a common carrier, by express, of goods, merchandise, money and other
things of value in and through the county and State aforesaid,,
without having any license s&-to do either for'himself or the

