OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

GORMAN v. E AVIRD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDAHO.
N0. 1296. Submitted March 23,1891. -Decided

May 25,1891.

Although it is true as a general rule that where judgment goes for the defendant, the amount of the plaintiff's claim is the test of -iurisdiction,
this rule is subject to the qualification that the demand shall appear to
have been made in good faith for such amount; and if it appear clearly
from the whole record that under no aspect of the case the plaintiff could
recove-±hje full amount of his claim, this court will decline to assume
jurisdictio6n of the case.

THIs was a petition for a mandamus filed in the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Idaho by the appellee Havird, who
was sheriff defacto, and also claimed to be sheriff de jure, of
iBoise County, to compel the c6unty commissioners to issue
warrants upon the treasury for the sun of $6595.47, forhis
srvices and expenses as sheriff for the years 1887 and 1888.
His claim consisted of a salary fixed by law at the sum of
$2798, and of expenses incurred as sheriff in the sum of $2797.47, making the aggregate of $5595.47. The items of his claim
for expenses were $692.25 for boardilig prisoners, $1302 for
jailor's fees, $595.22 for collecting a license tax; $156.15 for.
transportation of prisoners, and $51.85 for collecting a Territorial license tax.
The answer of. the- county commissioners averred in excuse
of their non-payment of the claim, that an action in the nature
of quo warranto had been begun against petitioner, and was
still pending in the District Court for. the county of Boise,
upon the relation of the appellant John Gorman, to test the
title to the office of sheriff, and that under the laws of Idaho,
Rev Stats. § 380, -" when the title of the incumbent of any
office in this Territory is contested by proceedings instituted
in any court for that purpose, no warrant can thereafter be
drawn or paid for any part of his salary until such proceedings
have been finally determined," By leave of the court, Gorntan, the contestant, intervened in the case, claiming to have

GORMAN v. HAVIRD.
Opinion of the Court.

been duly elected sheriff, setting forth the pendency of the
proceedings in the quo warrantocase, and demanding that the
writ of mandamus b6 denied.
The suit in reality turned upon the question whether the
proceedings in quo warranto were still pending, or had been
dismissed, and resulted in a judgment that the quo warranto
case then pending in the District Court should be dismissed,
and that a writ of mandamus forthwith issue, directing the
defendants, the county commissioners of Boise County to
order the issuing of a warrant for the amount theretofore
allowed by the board.for the time specified on account of fees
and expenses, and that immediately upon the dismissal of the
action in quo wagranto a writ of mandate issue, "commanding
said commissioners to qrder the issuing of a warrant or warrants in the name of plaintiff herein, for the amount due hun
as salary for the time specified, and that a copy hereof be
certified to said District Court." From this judgment Gorman
appealed, but the County Commissioners did not. Petitioner
thereupon made this motion to dismiss upon the ground that
the requisite jurisdictional amount was not involved.
.r

John Goode for the motion.

Xr Samuel Shellabarger and .MXr .krensah X. Wion,
opposing.
m. JUSTiCE B.RowN delivered the opinion of the court.

While the whole amount of Havird's claim was $5595.47more than enough to give this court jurisdiction - the sum of
$1994.25 was for disbursements in boarding prisoners and in
jailor's fees, leaving but $3601.22 as representing the salary,
fees and other perquisites of the office. As Havird was sheriff defacto, Gorman, even if he had maintained his suit, could
not in any case have recovered of him more than the salary
and perquisites of the office, less Havird's lawful disbursements, which, under any view which can be taken of this case,
would have reduced his recovery below the sum of $5000. In
entering its judgment in this case the Supreme Court evidently

OCTOE3ER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

had t is distinction between disbursements and salary in mind,
as the order was that the County Commissioners should issue
warrants at once for the amount of fees and expenses, but
should not issue warrants for the amount due as salary until
after the dismissal of the action of quo warranto in the District Court. It was evidently contemplated that Havird should
receive the amount of his disbursements in any event, but that
the salary should be withheld until the quo warranto proceedings had been dismissed. This was also a compliance with the
Idaho statute, which inhibited only payment of the salary
while the contest was pending.
It is trte as a general rule that where judgment goes for
Athe defendant, the amount of the plaintiff's claim is the test of
jurisdiction, but this rule is subject to the qualification that
the demand shall appear to have been made in good faith for
'such amount. If it appear clearly from the whole record that
under no aspect of the case the plaintiff could recover the full
amount of his claim, this court, will decline to assume jurisdiction of the case. If, for instance, a greater amount than $5000
were claimed in the ad damnum clause of the declaration, and
the bill of particulars showed the actual claim to be less, the
latter would determine the jurisdiction. Examples of the distinction between the sum demanded and the sum actually in
dispute are frequent in the decisions of this court. Lee v.
Wat-on, 1 Wall. 337, Schacker v Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 93
U. S. 24:1, Gray v. Blanchard, 97 U. S. 564, Tintsman v
Vational Bank, 100 U. S. 6, Hilton v _Dwkznson, 108 U. S.
165,. Jenness v Cizzens' Bank of Rome, 110 U. S. 52, Wabash, St. Lou~s &c. Railway Co. v. Enox, 110 U. S. 804.
Gauged by the rule laid down in these cases,
It w clear tLat we have no jurudiction,and the motion to.
dixmss Vill therefore be-granted.

