OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

months' limitation, the fund being substantially a fund in
court. Brook8 v. Gibbons, 4 Paige, 374, Burehardv Phillips,
11 Paige, 70; GrmnelZ v Jferchants' Iw. Co., 1 0. E. Green
(16 N. J. Eq.), 283, Lashley v Hogg, 11 Vesey, 602, Hurley
v AMurrell, 2 Tenn. Oh. 620. That being so, as the record
does not show on what grounds the court acted, the presumption must be ttat it properly exercised its discretion.
The first and third questions are answered in the affirmative, and the second question in the negative, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR T
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 78. Argued November

5,

1891.-Decided November 16, 1891.

Where an action at ip.w was tried by a District Court without a jury which
found the facts and conclusions of law, and entered judgment for the
plaintiff thereon, and a bill of exceptions was signed, which stated that
the defendant moved the court to direct a verdict for him, on the ground
that, as matter of law, no action could be maintained by the plaintiff, and
the Circuit Court, on a writ of error, affirmed the judgment, and the defendant then sued out a writ of error from this court. Held,
(1) The Circuit Court could not properly consider any matter raised by
the bill of exceptions, nor can this court do so, because the trial
was not by a jury nor on an agreed statement of facts;
(2) All that the Circuit Court could do was to affirm the judgment of
the District Court, and all that this court can do is to affirm the
judgment of the Circuit Court, as the latter court had jurisdiction and this court has it.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

X2, George Bliss for plaintiff in error.
.Xr Solicitor Genera2 for defendant m error.
M .

USTICE BLATcHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
Ophuon of the Court.

On the 12th of March, 1885, the United States brought an
action at law in the District Court of the United States for the

Southern District of New York, against Lebbeus H. Rogers,
to recover $12,000, with interest and costs, the principal sum

being the amount of the penalty of a bond executed by Henry
W Howgate as principal, and Rogers and another person as
sureties, on the 13th of March, 1878, which bond recited that
Howgate, first lieutenant of the twentieth infantry, had been
"assigned to duty as a property and disbursing officer, Signal
Service, U. S. A.," and was conditioned that Howgate should
at all times "during his holding and remaining in said office,"
carefully discharge the duties thereof, and faithfully expend
all public money, and honestly account for the same and for
all public property which should or might come into his hands
"on account of Signal Service, U. S. Army, without fraud or
delay"
The complaint alleged that Howgate entered upon the
duties "of property and disbursing officer, Signal Service of
the United States Army," that, while acting as such officer,
he did not carefully discharge the duties of his office, and
faithfully expend all r. -blic moneys, and honestly account for
the same, and for all public property which came into his
hands "on account of the Signal Service, U S. Army," without fraud or delay, in tuis, that on divers dates during the
years 1878, 1879 and 1880, while acting as such officer, he
received from the United States, on account of the Signal Service of the United States Army, $133,255.22, which sum he
did not faithfully expend and had not accounted for.
The answer of Rogers, besides denying the breaches of the
bond alleged in the complaint, set up that the bond was executed, taken and delivered without authority of law and in
violation of law
The parties filed a written stipulation waiving the right of
trial by jury, and consenting that the cause be tried by the
court without a jury It was so tried, before Judge Brown.
In April, 1887, he filed findings of fact, which stated that he
had "heard the testimony of the witnesses." Those findings
of fact were as follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opmion of the Court.

"1st. That long prior to 1874 the signal corps, under the
Department of War, was organized, and has continued from
its organization to the present time under such Department,
that during such time such signal corps has had property and
disbursing officers.
"2d. That .rior to 25th July, 1876, one Henry W Howgate
was a first lieutenant of the 20th infantry of the United States
army, attached to the signal corps.
"3d. That on the 25th July, 1876, said Howgate, by a special order, as follows
1"WAR

DEPA.RTMENT,

"'OFFICE OF THE CHIEF SIGNAL OFFICER,

"'WSHINGTON,

D.C. Ju y 25, 1876.

"'Special Orders,
" No. 115.
"'2. First Lieutenant H. W Howgate, 20th infantry, brevet
captain U. S. A., acting signal officer and assistant, is hereby
assigned to duty as property and disbursing officer at this
office, together with such other duties as may be assigned to
him.
"'3. First Lieutenant Henry Jackson, 7th cavalry, acting
signal officer and assistant, is hereby relieved from duty as
property and disbursing officer at this office, and will turn over
all government property and funds pertaining to this office,
for which he is responsible, to First Lieutenant H. W Howgate, 20th infantry, brevet captain U. S. A,, acting signal officer and assistant, who will receive and receipt for the same.
' 1By order of the chief signal officer of the army
ccGGA=IC MALLERY
"' Captazn 1st Inf'y, Bvt. Lzeut. Col. U S. A.,
"' Acting Signal Offcer and Assstant,'
was assigned to duty as property and disbursing officer in the
office of the chief signal officer, and he voluntarily accepted
such assignment and entered upon the duties thereof.
"That in March, 1878, said Howgate, as principal, and the
defendant, as one of the sureties, executed and delivered the

ROGERS v. 'UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

bond mentioned in, and a copy of which is annexed to, the complaint in this action."
[The fifth finding set forth zn Acoc verba the condition of
the bond.]
"61h. That said Henry W Howgate, 20th infantry, while
acting as property and disbursing officer, Signal Service, U. S
Army, did not carefully discharge the duties thereof ana faithfully expend all public moneys and honestly account for the
same and for all public property which came into his hands,
but did fraudulently and with intent to defraud the plaintiffs
embezzle the sum of $133,255.22.
"7th. That the said Howgate is indebted to the United
States of America for moneys received as property and disbursing officer, Signal Service, U. S. Army, between the first
day of April, 1878, and 31st day of September, 1881, in the
sum of 8133,255.22.
"18th. That such bond was made, executed, delivered and
given by said Howgate and the defendant and the other surety
voluntarily
"9th. That there is now due on said bond the sum of
$12,000, with interest from 31st March, 1885, making in all
$13,476."
The court found the following conclusions of law"11st. That the office of property and disbursing officer, Signal Service, U. S. Army, is one created and duly authorized by
law
"12d. That the duties assigned to such officer are duly authorized by law
"3d. That duties covered by the bond in this action are
authorized by law
"4th. That the bond in the complaint mentioned is a legal,
valid obligation.
"5th. That the plaintiff is entitled to judgment against the
defendant for the sum of $12,000, with interest from March 31,
1885, amounting. in all to $13,176, for which sum judgment is
ordered, with costs."
Thereupon a judgment was entered in the District Court, in
favor of the United States, against Rogers, for $13,476 damages and $30.87 costs:

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

A bill of exceptions was filed in the District Court, which
states that the plaintiffs put in evidence the order set forth in
the third finding of fact, and also the bond, which is set forth
in full, and a stipulation in writing, whereby the defendant
admitted that HIowgate, "while acting as property and disbursing officer, Signal Service, U. S. Army, did not carefully
discharge the duties thereof, and faithfully expend all public
moneys, and honestly account for the same, and for all public
property which came into his hands, but did fraudulently, and
with intent to defraud the plaintiffs, embezzle the sum of
8133,255.22," and that he was indebted to the United States
in that sum.
The bill of exceptions also states that the plaintiffs put in
evidence certain orders of the War Department, which are set
forth, and that it was admitted that Howgate was an officer
of the regular army of the United States. It ther sets forth
that, the evidence of the plaintiffs being closed, the defendant's
counsel, without offering any testimony, moved the court to
direct a verdict for the defendant, on the ground that, as a
matter of law, no action could be maintained by the plaintiffs
upon the bond proved, that the court refused to grant that
motion, and the defendant excepted to such refusal, and that
lie also excepted to the decision and finding of the court in
favor of the plaintiffs.
The opinion of the district judge is reported in 28 Fed. Rep.
607. It states that the only defence was that the bond was
not given voluntarily, and that the office was not one created
or authorized by statute, that, as Howgate was not bound, as
an officer of the army, to accept the appointment of property
and disbursing officer in the Signal Corps and to give the
bond, his assignment to duty, in the order of July 25, 1876,
must be deemed to have been an assignment upon his own
application, or upon his acquiescence, that a failure to give a
bond could not have subjected him to discipline or loss of rank
in the army, that the bond must, therefore, be deemed to
have been given voluntarily by him and his sureties, and
that, the office and the duties assigned to the officer, and covered by the bond, being duly authorized by law, the defendant
was liable.

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In May, 1887, the defendant sued out a writ of error from
-the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, to review the judgment. The case was
decided by Judge Wallace, in that court, in November, 1887,
and his opinion is reported in 32 Fed. Rep. 890. He held
that the bond was a voluntary one, that, although it should
be assumed that llowgate was not an officer and did not hold
an office while the bond was in force, still the bond must be
,treated as a contract to secure the United States against loss

'from the unfaithfulness of an emplove in the Signal Service,
who was about to be intrusted with public money in .the
course of his employment, and that the defendant was liable
on the bond. The judgment of the District Court was affirmed,
with costs, and afterwards a motion for a reargument was
denied.
The defendant then sued out a writ of error from this court,
to review the judgment of the Circuit Court, and the case has
been argued here on the merits. But a preliminary question
arises, which, though not alluded to in the brief of either
party, must be taken notice of by this court.
The case was not tried in the District Court by a jury or on
an agreed statement of facts. The court "heard the testimony
of the witnesses." The stipulation which was put in evidence
extended only to two specific matters. The important fact,
relied upon in the opinions of both the district judge and the
-circuit judge, that the bond was given voluntarily, is found as
a fact by the District Court. The bill of exceptions states
that the defendant moved the court to direct a verdict for
him, on the ground that, as a matter of law, no action could
be maintained by the United States upon the bond proved.
It is strongly argued in the brief for the plaintiff in error here,
that the bond was not a voluntary one, because Howgate was
placed under the orders of the Chief Signal Officer, and in
-.effect ordered to give a bond, and would have been liable to a
court martial if he had refused to obey his superior officer.
The finding by the District Court of the fact that the bond
was given voluntarily may have depended upon the "testimony of the witnesses," referred to in the findings, as may

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

also the statement in the findings that Howgate voluntarily
accepted his assignment to duty as property and disbursing
officer. The question as to the liability of the defendant
arises on the bill of exceptions, because it arises out of the.
refusal to grant the motion to direct a verdict for the defendant, which must be considered as a motion to find for the,
defendant.
There was no statute in existence which provided for the trial
in the District Court by the court without a jury It is provided by § 566 of the Revised Statutes that "the trial of issues.
of fact in the District Courts, in all causes except cases in equity
and cases 6f admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and except.
as otherwise provided in proceeding in bankruptcy, shall be by
jury "1 The provision for waiving a jury, in § 649 of the Revised Statutes, applies only to the Circuit Court, as does also
a special provision of § '700, in regard to the review by this.
court of a case tried in the Circuit Court by the court without
a jury There are no similar, provisions in regard to trials
without a jury in the District Courts, to those found in §§ 649,
and 700 in respect to Circuit Courts.
It is true that, in the District Court, in a suit otherwise triable by a jury, the parties may, by stipulation, waive a jury and
agree on a statement of- facts, and submit the case to the court
thereon, for its decision as to the law Hendrson's Vtstilled
Sp-rits, 14 Wall. 44, 53. That might have been done also in
the Circuit Court, without any statute to that effect. Campbell v Boyreau, 21 How 223, 226, 227. This, however, is not
the.finding of issues of fact by the court upon the evidence.
The provisions of §§ 6419 and 700 relate wholly to such finding,
and not at all to the action of the court upon an agreed statement of facts.
In the present case, the-Circuit Court could not properly
consider any of the matters raised by the bill of exceptions,
nor can this court do so. All that.the Circuit Court could do
was to affirm the judgment of the District Court, and all that,
this court can do is to affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court had jurisdiction.by its writ of error, and this
court has jurisdiction in the present case.

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

The authority given to the Circuit Court by § 633 of the
Revised Statutes is merely to regxamine the final judgments
of a District Court in civil actions. The same -authority was
given to this court in respect to judgments -of the Circuit
Court, before the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 501, § 4, the
provisions of which are now embodied in §§ 649 and 700 of the
Revised Statutes. The extent of that authority was settled by
the case of Campbell v Boyreau, before cited. That was a
suit at law in a Circuit Court. The whole case having been
submitted to the court upon the trial, and a jury having been
expressly waived by agreement of parties, evidence was offered
on both sides. The court found the facts, and then decided
the questions of law arising upon such facts, and gave judgment for the plaintiff. The defendants sued out a writ of error
from this court. There were m the record bills of exceptions,
which showed exceptions by the defendants to the admissibility of evidence, and exceptions to the construction and legal
effect which the court gave to certain instruments in writing.
But this court held that, m the mode of proceeding which the
parties had seen proper to adopt, none of the questions, whether
of fact or of law, decided by the Circuit Court, could be reexamined by this court upon a writ of error. The opinion of
this court, delivered by Chief Justice Taney, cited to that effect
Guild v. Frontin,18 How 135, Suydarm v. Williamson, 20
How 427, 432, and Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 How 85, and said "The finding of issues of fact by the court upon the evidence
is altogether unknown to a common law court, and cannot be
recognized as a judicial act. Such questions are exclusively
within the province of the jury; and if, by agreement of parties, the questions of fact in dispute are submitted for decision
to the judge upon the evidence, he does not exercise judicial
authority in deciding,. but acts rather in the character of an
arbitrator. And this court, therefore, cannot regard the facts
so found as judicially determined in the court below, nor examme the questions of law, as if those facts had been conclusively
determined by a jury or settled by the admission of the parties. Nor can any exception be taken to an opinion of the
court upon the admission or rejection of testimony, or upon

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

any other question of law which may grow out of the evidence,
unless a jury was actually impanelled, and the exception reserved while they were still at the bar. The statute which
gives the exception in a trial at common law gives it only in
such cases. And as this court cannot regard the facts found
by the judge as having been judicially determined in the court
below, there are no facts before us upon which questions of
law may legally and judicially have arisen in the inferior
court, and no questions, therefore, open to our revision as an
appellate tribunal. Consequently, as the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the subject matter and the parties, and there is
1o questioil of law or fact open to our reexamination, its judgment must be presumed to be right, and on that ground only
affirmed."
Various decisions in the Circuit Courts have followed and
applied this ruling to writs of error from them to the District
Courts. Unted, States v 15 RUogsheads, 5 Blatchford, 106,
Blavr v Allen, 3 Dillon, 101, Wear v Zayer, 2 McCrary,
172, Town of Lyons v- Lyons _Vat. Bank, 19 Blatchford, 279,
Doty v Jewett, 22 Blatchford, 65. The same principles were
applied by this court in -landers v. Tweed, 9 Wall. 425,
Jearney v Case, 12 Wall. 275, Gilman v 111. & Miss. Tel.
Co., 91 U. S. 603, 614, Supervsors v -enntcott, 103 U. S. 554,
'556, Bond v Dustin, 112 U. S. 604, 606, Pane v Central
Vermont Railroad Co., 118 U. S.152, Andes v Slauson, 130
U. S. 435, 438, 43D, Glenn v _Fant, 134 U. S. 398, 400, 401.
Without considering any questions on the merits, the judgtnent of the Circuit Court is, tuerefore,
Affirrmed.

