OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

THOM PSON v. BAKER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE EUITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 72. Submitted November 4, 1891. -Decided

November 16, 18Q1.

A conveyance by a debtor in Texas of his real estate there, made with intent
to delay, hinder or defraud his creditors, being void as to the latter
under the statutes of that State, a judgment sale and transfer of such
property, in an action commenced by the levy of an attachment upon itas the property of the debtor, made after the fraudulent sale, is upheld
in this case as against a bona ftide purchaser from the fraudulent grantee,
taking title after the levy of the attachment.

THIs was an action of trespass to try the title to a tract of

land in Clay County, Texas, containing seventeen hundred
and -twenty-nine acres, more or less. The dispute was between
Thompson, who was the plaintiff below, and Schuler. Each
party claimed under Baker. Schuler pleaded not guilty, alleging, by way of reconvention, that he was the owner in fee
and entitled to a judgment for the land, with damages, and
writ of restitunon. The court tried the case, making a special
finding of facts, in accordance with the agreement of the parties, upon which judgment was entered m fvor of Schuler.
The history of the title, as shown by- that. finding, was as
follows Baker, August 30, 1884, conveyed the land; with
general warranty, to one Ledbetter, the deed reciting 4 consideration of $8225 evidenced by three promissory notes, each for
one-third of that sum, and due, respectively, on the first days
of September, 1885, 1886 and 1887. The grantee was a nephew
of Baker, and a single man, living on the land with his uncle,
and having there 40 hea of cattle. After the deed; he continued to live with Baker, who had 300 head of cattle on
the land. But their value is not stated, nor does it appear to
what extent Baker was indebted, or what other property, if
any, he had in theState subject to execution.
The deed of August. 30, 1884, was made to defraud the
creditors of the grantor, particularly Schuler, who, at its date,

THOMPSON v. BAR

.

Statement of the Case.

held the note of Baker and others for $10,000. It was never
delivered to Ledbetter, but was put on record by Baker, September 29, 1884.
A few days before that deed was recorded, namely, on the
24th day of September, 1884, Schuler instituted suit on his
demand of $10,000 against Baker and others in the District
Court of Clay County, Texas, and, on the same day, sued out
an attachment, which Was levied upon the land in controversy
as the property of Baker. That suit, on Schuler's application,
was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas, in which court the transcript was
filed December 4, 1884. On the next day, December 5, 1884,
Schuler sued out in that court another writ of attachment,
which was levied the same day on the land in dispute as the
propertv of Baker.
On IMay 9, 1885, Ledbetter made and delivered to J. N.
Israel a general warranty deed, conveying the land to the
latter, and reciting a consideration of $10,000 cash. On the
same day, Baker executed a release of his vendor's lien. The
,deed and release were both acknowledged on the day last
named. Two days later, May 11, 1885, Baker executed to
Israel a quit-claim cieed for the land. No consideration was
paid by Israel to Baker or to Ledbetter for their respective
-conveyances, which were recorded May 14, 1885.
On the 1st day of August, 1885, Thompson loaned to Israel
the sum of $5000, for which the latter executed his note
secured by mortgage on this land. Default in performing the
stipulations of the mortgage having occurred, Thompson
brought suit against Israel m the court below to foreclose it.
The finding does not show when that suit was instituted, but
it was commenced after Schuler's action was brought.
In Schuler's suit, the court below rendered judgment, January 12, 1886, against Baker and others for the debt sued on,
11 with foreclosure of the attachment lien." The judgment
recites that "the attachment lien, as it existed December 5,
1884, is foreclosed," the writ issued in the state court not
being mentioned in it. Upon the above judgment an order
,of sale was issued. The sale took place June 1, 1886, Schuler

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

becoming the purchaser, and receiving a deed from the marshal, which was recorded June 4, 1886.
Subsequently, June 16, 1886, Thompson obtained a decree
in his suit, under which the land was sold on the 3d of August,
1886, He became the purchaser at the sale, receiving from
the maKshal a' deed, which was recorded in September, 1886.
When ' hompson made the loan to, and took the mortgage
from, Israel, he had no knowledge of the fact that the latter
paid nothing for the conveyances from Baker and Ledbetter,
nor of the fraudulent intent with which Baker conveyed to
Ledbetter, nor actual notice of any defect or infirmity-in the
title.
The writs of attachment, in the action of Schuler v. Baker,
etc., the court found, "1were properly sued out, issued and
levied, and by proper officers, and the lien on the land in
controversy, under the writ of December 5, 1884, was duly
and regularly foreclosed." It was also found that "the foreclosure proceedings under the mQrtgage from Israel to Thompson were regular."
Neither Thompson, Ledbetter nor Israel were parties to,
Schuler's suit, nor was Schuler a party to Thompson's suit.
Such is the case made by the finding of facts.
The statute of Texas, relating fo frauds and fraudulent conveyances, declares that 1 every gift, conveyance, assignment
or transfer of, or charge upon any estate, real or personal,
every suit commenced, or decree, judgment or execution suffered or obtained, and every bond or other writing given with
intent to delay, hinder or defraud creditors, purchasers or
other persons of or from what they are or may be lawfully
entitled to, shall, as to such creditors, purchasers or other persons, their representatives or assigns, be void. This article
shall not affect the- title of a purchaser for valuable consideration, unless it appear that he had notice of the fraudulent,
intent of his immediate grantor, or of the fraud rendering void
the title ofsuch grantor," also, that " every gift, conveyance,
assignment, transfer or charge made by a debtor, which is not
upon a consideration deemed valuable in law, shall be void as.
to prior creditors unless it appears that such debtor was then

THOMPSON v. BAKER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

possessed of property within this state sufficient to pay his
existing debts, but such gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer
or charge shall not on that account merely be void as to subsequent creditors, and though it be decreed to be void as to a
prior creditor, because voluntary, it shall not for that cause be
decreed to-be void as to subsequent cpeditors or purchasers."
Sayles's Texas Civil Statutes, vol. 1, Art. 2465, p. 807, Art.
2466, p. 809, Rev. Stats. Texas, 1879, p. 363.
_Mr .D A. _McKn jgt for plaintiff in error.
This suit is between two purchasers at execution sales of the
same land, each holding the marshal's deed, and the true
ownership may properly be determined m an action of trespass to try title. &..Loum &o. Railway Co. v lkitaker, 68
Texas, 630.
Thompson, the plaintiff, claims that Baker's deed passed
his title prior to Schuler's attachment lien, and that he therefore has the elder title, whih, on the pleadings, entitles him.
to judgment, that the deeds, from Baker down to Israel, were
untainted by fraud or other invalidity, and that, if they were
tainted by invalidity, he nevertheless acquired a good title as
an innocent purchaser for value.
The argument for the plaintiff is primarily founded on two,
propositions of law, fixng the scope and effect of an agreed
statement of facts, namely, that in this court,.as in the court
below, the agreed statement embodies "the ultimate facts or
propositions which the evidence is intended to establish," .Burr
v. .Des .Mones Railroad& .Yawgation Co., 1 Wall. 99, and is
held "to present questions of law alone for the consideration
of the court."
upervsors v Xenncott, 103'U. S. 554. Upon
these "ultimate facts," m connection with the pleadings, it is,
submitted that the court below erred in its application of the
law, and that judgment should have been rendered for the.
plaintiff.
I. The conclusion of law should have been that the plaintiffs title is superior because the facts show it to be the older,
and on the pleadings the defendant could not attack its
validity

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Baker's deed, being recorded prior to Schuler's attachment
lien, vested ayrmafacw elder title in the plaintiff.
Both parties deraign from Baker as a common source of
title. But the plaintiff starts with Baker's deed to Ledbetter,
dated August 30, 1884, and recorded September 29, 1884,
whilst the defendant starts with the marshal's deed, recorded
June 4, 1886, under a sale made June 1, 1886, upon the foreclosure of an attachment levied December 5, 1884. An attachment lien becomes effective at date of the levy Rev Stats.
Texas, Art. 179.
But it is to be observed that the defendant is not now in
court for the purpose of enforcing either or both of the attachment liens which he jlaced on the land, but as a stranger to
that suit, and a mere purchaser under the lien actually foreclosed. The lien of the attachment levied on September 24,
1884, on the writ from the state court, was never foreclosed as
required by the statute. Rev Stats. Texas, Art. 180.
Hence the lien acquired prior to the recording of Baker's
deed was abandoned, and at the execution sale the defendant
took nothing under it. Coo7 v Love, 33 Texas, 487. He
bought only the execution debtor's interest at date of the levy
of December 5, 1884, (Jones v Powers, 65 Texas, .207, Sullivan v. O'Yeal, 66 Texas, 433,) and at said date pr?nr fact
the title was not in Baker.
In an action of trespass to try title, the prmafacte elder
title prevails. The action of trespass to try title is in principle like an action of ejectment. Rev. Stats. Texas, Art. 4785.
In an action of ejectment, proof of a common source of
title, with conveyances linking it to the plaintiff, makes out
his pma facs case. .Roosevelt v H ungate, 110 IllinQis, 595,
Smith v. Lindsey, 89 Missouri, 76. Such is the law in Texas in
the action of trespass to try title, the prqma facme paper title
being sufficient.
Mfontgomery v Carlton, 56 Texas, 361.
Proof of an elder deed entitles the plaintiff to recover, and
proof of a title originating prior to the attachment lien -is
sufficient. ,ebastian v Martin Brown Co., 75 Texas, 291.
Where there was a plea of the general issue, and also a special
plea in reconvention, with allegation of title, as in the case

THOMPSON v. BAKER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

at bar, the court held the plaintiff entitled to a finding m the
absence of proof of a superior right in the defendant. M3IcNamara v. Neunch, 66 Texas, 68.

Plaintiff Thompson, then, having proved an older paper
title, is entitled to judgment, unless there be some other principle of law arising upon the facts which bars it. To ascertam whether there is such a bar, we will examine each one of
the recited facts bearing on the question.
The priority of the marshal's deed to the defendant does
not, under the statutes of Texas, impair the plaintiff's title.
In Texas, a purchaser from a party to a suit after levy of
the attachment" takes subject thereto. Tuttle v. Turner, 28
Texas, 759, Hancock v Henderson, 45 Texas, 479, Paxeton
v. .eyer, 67 Texas, 96. The true and the modern doctrine of
lispendens is, not that suit is notice, but that the law will not
allow parties litigant to defeat the execution of the decree
by a sale of the property
Dovey's Appeal, 97 Penn. St. 153.
A purchaser is chargeable with lis vendens when the suit
is-against his grantor. Randall v Snyder, 64 Texas, 350,
Tredway v. ctoDonald, 51 Indiana, 663. But there is no li&
pendens when the holder of the legal title is not a party
.fller v. iSherry, .2 Wall. 237, Unson Trust Co. v -Southern
.lAazgation Co., 130 U. S. 565. A bill to set aside a conveyance for fraud is not lis pendens as to. the mortgagee, where
the title was of record, and a purchaser of the mortgage title
is not affected by it. Bradley v Luce, 99 Illinois, 234. And
a suit to recover land is not notice to the mortgagee of the
defendant before he is made a party to it. Arnold v Smith,
80 Indiana, 417.
The reservation of a vendor's lien in Baker's deed does not
impair the plaintiff's title, because it was not attachable, it
was released of record when the plaintiff acquired his interest
and it is not shown that the purchase money remains unpaid.
In Texas a vendor's lien is not assignable, (Cassaday v.
.Franlkand,55 Texas, 452,460,) it cannot be taken in execution,
(Yickery v. Ward,2 Texas, 212, 216,) and it cannot be attached
(Adoue v. Jemson, 65 Texas, 680). An express vendor's lien
is the equivalent of a mortgage from the vendee to the vendor

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

(Caldwell v _Fra m, 82 Texas, 310, Baker v. Ramey, 27 Texas,
52, King v Young, .Men's Ass'n, 1 Woods, 386,) and the
general rule is that such an interest is not attachable.
The defendant is estopped by his pleadings from attacking
the validity of Baker's deed, under which the plaintiff claims
title.
II. The conclusion of law should have been that the
plaintiff's title was not affected by the nondelivery of Baker's
deed mentioned in the agreed statement of fact. Even if it
was not constructively delivered by recording it, nevertheless
Baker had sold the land and Ledbetter was its real owner, and
it was therefore not subject to Schuler's attachment.
III. The conclusion of law on the ultimate facts recited
should have been that Baker's deeds to Ledbetter and Israel
were not fraudulent conveyances. Even 'if Ledbetter and
Israel were parties to Baker's fraud, the plaintiff was a bona
ftde purchaser for value, without notice, and took a good title
against Baker's creditors.
Mir Sawnw Robertson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HAmLAff, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The transaction by which Baker attempted to put the title
to the land in his nephew was a mere sham. The deed was
never delivered to the pretended grantee; and, having been
iiade with the intent to defraud the creditors of the grantor,
particularly Schuler, was void, under the statute, as to such
creditors. It did not, therefore, as between Schuler, Baker
and Ledbetter, stand in the way of Schuler's causing, as he did,
an attachment to be levied upon the land as the property of
his fraudulent debtor. Equally ineffectual, as against Schuler,
was the conveyance by Ledbetter, and the quit-claim deed of
Baker to Israel. No consideration of any kind pas§ed from
Israel to either of.the fraudulent grantors, and those deeds
were void as to prior creditors.
So that, on the 1st day of August, 1885, when Thompson
took a mortgage from Israel, the lnd was under a lien created

THOMPSON v. BAKER.
Opimon of the Court.

by Schuler's attachment of December 5, 1884, which was
levied upon it as" the property of Baker. The deed from
Baker to Ledbetter, and the conveyance from Ledbetter to

Israel, being void as to Schuler, he had the right to proceed
to a decree in his suit without noticing the apparent title,
which Ledbetter had, of record, at the time the attachment of
December 5 was levied, or the title which the latter attempted,
after the levy of that attachment and in fraud of Baker's
creditors, to convey to Israel. It results that the rights of
Thompson under the mortgage from Israel, and under the
decree, sale and purchase in the suit brought by him, having
been acquired while the land was under a valid levy by
Schuler's attachment of December 5, 1884, as the property
of Baker, were subject to whatever rights were acquired by
Schuler, as purchaser, under the decree in his suit. Baker
being a party to that suit, his interest in the land, levied upon
by Schuler's attachment, could not be conveyed by him so as
to defeat the final decree in that suit. And no greater rights
could be acquired by a purchaser from Baker after the attachment, than Baker himself had. In Tuttle v Turner, 28 Texas,
759, 773, which involved the title of one who purchased land
after a levy thereon of an attachment, the court said "If he
purchased after the appellees acquired a lien on the lands by
levy of the attachment, his rights are subordinate to theirs.
The attachment lien- being a prior incumbrance, he takes
subject to its prior satisfaction. Being a _endnte Zite purchaser, he is affected with notice of the rights of the appellees,"
etc. So, in Hancookv Henderson, 45 Texas, 479, 484, where
the contest was between the holder of an attachment lien upon
land, and a person who purchased from the grantees of the
defendant in the attachment, who, it was alleged, had conveyed the land to such grantees with the fraudulent intent to
hinder his creditors, such purchaser having no actual notice
of the issuing of the attachment or of the levy, the court said
"That aj valid levy created a lien on the land attached, and,,
when properly returned on the writ into the court from which
it issued, is notice to third parties, are propositions which it
is not deemed necessary to discus.
It follows that

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Mrs. Louisa Hancock [the purchaser after the levy of the
attachment] having bought the land under these circumstances, took it subject to the plaintiff's [attachment] lien."
To the same effect is Paxton v Xeyer, 67 Texas, 96, 98. See
also County of Warren v Mfarcy, 97 U. S. 96, 105, Unon
'Trust Co. v Southern Havigaton Co., 130 U. S. 565, 570,
.Xurray/v.BRallou, 1 Johns. Ch. 566, 576.
For the reasons stated, we are of opimon that the title to
the land was in Schuler in virtue of his purchase at the sale
m the suit brought by him, and of the marshal's deed to him.
Judgment affirmed.

SMYTH v. N-EW ORLEANS CANAL AND BANKING
COMPANY
.A.PPEAL FROM THE

CIRIT

COURT OF THE UNRITED STATES FOP.

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 75. Submitted November 5,1891. -Decided November 23,1891.
The plaintiffin his bill set up in himself a legal title to real estate derived
from the State of Louisiana to which it had been listed as swamp or overflowed lands; averred that the respondents claimed the same land under
certain old French grants which had been recognized by the Land Office as
valid, and prayed that he might be declared to be the owner and put in possession of the premises, and have an accounting for rents and profits.
Held, that on these averments he had a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law, and that the bill must be dismissed.

THE court stated the case as follows
The controversy involved in this suit arose from conflicting
claims of the parties to lands in the suburbs of New Orleans,
alleged to be of great value. It seemed from the opinions of
the Secretaries of the Interior presented on the hearing, that
no regular survey by the Land Department of the government
was extended over the city and its suburbs prior to 1871. The
surveys previously made were only such as were required to
ascertain the boundaries .of old grants from the Spanish ar

