McCLAIN v. ORTMAYER.
Syllabus.

its control, unless steps be taken during that term, by motion
or otherwise, to set aside, modify or correct them, and if errors
exist, they can only be corrected by such proceeding by a writ
of error or appeal as may be allowed in a court which, by law,
can review the decision. So strongly has this principle been
applied by this court that, while realizing that there is no court
which can review its decisions, it has invariably refused all
applications for rehearing made after the adjournment of the
court for the term at which the judgment was rendered. And
this is placed upon the ground that the case has passed beyond
the control of the court." The same principles had been announced in Sibbald v Urnted States, 12 Pet. 488, 492. The
exceptions to the general rule, such as suits in equity, and writs
of error coram, vobts at law, do not embrace the present application. See also Phillips v Negley, 117 U. S. 665, 674, 675,
Carneron v _Modoberts, 3 Wheat. 591, .M.ficken v Pern,18
How 507, 511.
Judgment afflrmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTIcE GRY did not hear the
argument, and took no part in the decision of this case.

McCLAIN v. ORTMAYER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 44. Argued October 20, 21,1891. -Decided

November 2, 1891.

If a patentee describes and claims only a part of his invention he is presumed to have abandoned the residue to the public.
Where a claim is fairly susceptible o two constructions, that one will be
adopted which will preserve to the patentee his actual invention, but
if the language of the specification and claim shows clearly what he
desired to secure as a monopoly, nothing can be held to be an infringe.
ment which does not fall within the terms which the patentee has hunself chosen to express his invention.
The first claim in letters patent No. 259,700, issued June 20, 1882, to Edward
L. MeClain for a pad for horse-collars, when construed in accordance
with these principles, is not infringed by the manufacture and sale of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
sweat pads for horse-collars under letters patent No. 381,813, issued
December 8, 1885.
Whether a variation from a previous state of an art involves anything
more than ordinary mechanical skill is a question which cannot be
answered by applying the test of any general definition.
The doctrine which prevails to some extent in England that the utility of a
device is conclusively proven by the extent to which it has gone into
general use cannot be applied here so as to control that language of the
statute which limits the benefit of the patent laws to things which are
new as well as useful.
In a doubtful case the fact that a patented article has gone anto general use
is evidence of its utility; but not conclusive of that, and still less of its
patentable novelty.
Letters patent No. 267,011, issued May 13, 1884, to McClain for a pad fasten.
ing are void for want of novelty in the alleged invention.

THE court stated the case as follows
This was a bill in equity for the infringement of two letters
patent granted to appellant Mc~lain, viz. patent No. 259,700,
issued June 20, 1882, for a "pad for horse-collars," and patent
No. 267,011, issued November 7, 1882, for an improvement
upon the same. Another patent, numbered 298,626, issued
May 13, 1884, to J Scherling for a "pad fastening," and
assigned to the appellant, was originally included in the suit,
but was abandoned upon the argument in this court.
In the specification of the first patent, No. 259,700, the
patentee stated that his invention related "to that class of
horse-collar pads which are placed between the collar and the
horse's shoulders, and are adjustably attached to the collar
and known as ' sweat pads, " the object of the invention being
"1to produce a sweat pad for a horse-collar which can be easily
and readily attached to or taken from the collar, and which
can be fitted to collars varying in size."
He further stated that the pad proper was "made so as to
form an intermediate cushion between the collar and the
horse's shoulders and of a size such as to entirely isolate the
The
collar from all portions of the horse's shoulders.
sweat pad, as just described, is not claimed as a new invention.
My improvements consist in the addition of springs s s and
choke-strap billet loop b. The top ends of the pads or bodies

McOLAIX v. ORTMAYER.
Statement of the Case.

are adjacent [to] the withers of the neck, and are provided with
elastic springs - steel - which are so made as to be capable of
being opened and then clasped around the body of the sides of
the collar. Thus one end of a spring is so curved as to partly
encircle the fore wale or small roll of the collar and to hug it
so closely as to keep out of the way of the hame, and the
other end is so curved as to similarly partly encircle and hug
the after wale or body side of the collar and yet not interfere
with the hame. Such construction will enable the pad to be
easily and readily attached at its top ends to the top ends of
the collar, and also will permit of attachment at variable positions along the sides of the collar, so that it can be easily fitted
to collars of different sizes."
His claim was "1. As attachments to a sweat or other horse-collar pad,

the elastic springs 8 s, substantially as described, and for the
purposes set forth."

There was a second claim, which, however, became immaterial:
Patent No. 267,011 was for an improvement upon the prior
patent, and consisted in discarding that portion of the spring
of such patent as embraced the after roll of a collar, and in
using the fore roll only In this connection the patentee
stated "that said spring S differs materially from the spring
in my previous patent. First, this spring has but one curved
portion, intended for the fore roll only of the collar, instead of
a curved portion for the fore roll and one for the back roll.
The single-roll spring is applicable where the two-roll spring
could not be used, and is preferable and cheaper even where
the latter can be used.
It is therefore seen that the
two-roll springs are much more cumbersome to use than singleroll springs, while when the curves of the two-roll springs are
repeatedly and much bent they lose their elasticity, and consequently their usefulness.
A great feature possessed
by pads having the single curved springs is that they can be
easily and speedily removed from or attached to a collar, and
therefore can be separated from the collar when it is removed
from a horse's neck. As an article of manufacture the singleroll spring can be made and attached to a pad at much less

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Parties.

expense than a two-roll spring. First, it does not require so
much material, second, it is easier to form and may not
require tempering, as the tempered steel in the market may
answer where it has been found that such steel will not do for
a two-roll spring, third, it is more convenient to attach by
riveting by hand or by machinery, for riveting machinery now
in use can be used on a single-roll spring, but not on a two-roll
one, since the curved ends of the latter project over the rivets."
The claims of this patent were
"1. As an attachment to a horse-collar pad or other harness pad, an, as a means of adjustably attaching a pad to a
horse-collar or other part of harness, the elastic single-roll
or single-curved spring S, constructed, arranged, attached and
operating substantially in the manner shown or described, and
for or with the purposes set forth.
"2. The combination, with a horse-collar pad, of jelastic
single-roll or single-curve spring S, substantially in the manner
shown or described, and for the purposes set forth."
The answer of defendants denied that the invention relied
upon was novel, or that the alleged inventors were the first or
original inventors thereof, and also denied that the said improvements contained any invention when compared with the
prior art. To the charge of infringement the defendants
answered as follows "These defendants, on their own understanding of the scope and meaning of said several letters
patent, and on the advice of counsel in relation thereto, deny
that they have ever, in any way, infringed upon the same or
upon any of them -or upon any claim thereof."
Plaintiff's bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court upon the
ground that the first patent was not infringed, and that the
second patent, in view of the first, and of the other devices
offered in evidence, was void for want of novelty The opinion of the court is reported in 33 Fed. Rep. 284.
MAb' James -Mooreand XA

Edn*nd Ifetrnore for appellant.

-Mr
orwras A. Bazning (with whom was -Mr Epohram
Bannzng on the brief) for appellees.

McOLAIN v. ORTMAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the
court.
of
the
opinion
MR.

JUSTICE

(1) The defence to the first patent was rested principally
upon the question of the infringement. Defendants in their
answer admitted that they had, as a corporation and individually, manufactured and sold sweat pads for horse-collars under
letters patent -issued to defendant Ortmayer, "that is to say,
sweat pads adapted to be fastened or secured to the collar by
a simple hook made of wire, arranged to clasp the front roll
of the collar, but not in any way having or employing the
pretended inventions and improvements describes and claimed
in said several letters patent, or either of them."
This patent to Ortmayer, numbered 331,813, exhibits a
horse-collar, a sweat pad, a hook made of wire, "its curved or
hooked portion being so bent or formed as to clasp the outer
or exposed part of the front roll of the collar, and so as to
have a broad bearing thereon." The hook is connected t6the
pad in such a manner as to be joined or hinged thereto so as
to be capable of being turned in the fold of the leather. Says
the patentee "To apply the- pad to the collar it is only necessary to arrange it underneath the collar in the usual manner,
first raising the hooks DD, and then pushing them downward,
so that they will clasp the iront roll of the collar."
It is evident from this patent and from the entire testimony
that the defendants made use of a single hook D, embracing
the front roll of the collar only, while the appellant Mcelain
has limited himself, perhaps unnecessarily, to the elastic
springs s s, which the drawings and tle whole tenor of the
specification show- to be double and intended to be clasped
around both the fore and after wales of the collar. While the
patentee may have been unfortunate in the language he has
chosen to express his actual invention, and may have been
entitled to a broader claim, we are not at liberty, without running counter to the entire current of authority in this court,
to construe such claims to include more than their language
fairly imports. Nofhing is better settled in the law of patents
than that the patentee may claim the whole or only a part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

his invention, and that if he only describe and claim. a part, he
is presumed to have abandoned, the residue to the public. The
object of the patent law in requiring the patentee to "particularly point out and distinctly claim the part, improvement or
combination which he claims as his invention or discovery,"
is not only to secure to him all to which he is entitled, but to
apprise the publ~c of what is still open to them. The claim is
tne measure of his right to relief, and while the specification may be referred to to limit the claim, it can never be made
available to expand it. Thus in Heystone Brtdge Company
Iron Company, 95 U. S. 274, 278, the manufacture
v Phcemen
of round bars, flattened and drilled at the eye, for use in the
lower chords of iron bridges, was held not to be an infringement of a patent for an improvement in such bridges where
the claim in the specification described the patented invention
as consisting in the use of wide and thin drilled eye bars applied on edge. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr.
Justice Bradley observed "It is plain, therefore, that the
defendant company, which does not make said bars at all,"
(that is, wide and thin bars,)" but round or cylindrical bars,
does not infringe this claim of the patent. When a claim is
so explicit, the courts cannot alter or enlarge it.. If the patentees have not claimed the whole of their invention, and the
omission has been the result of inadvertence, they should have
sought to correct the error by a surrender, of their patent and
But the courts have no
an application for a reissue.
right to enlarge a patent beyond the scope of its claim as
allowed by the Patent Office, or the appellate tribunal to which
contested applications are referred. When the terms of a
claim in a patent are clear and distinct, (as they always should
be,) the patentee, in a suit brought upon the patent, is bound
He can claim nothing beyond it."
by it.
Similar language is used in Railroad Company v. Mellon,
104 U. S. 112, in reference to a patented locomotive wheel.
In .Masury v Anderson, 11 Blatchford, 162, 165, it was said
by Mr. Justice Blatchford "The rights of the plaintiff d&pend upon the claim in his patent, according to its proper construction, and not upon what he may erroneously suppose it

McCLAI

v. ORTMAYER.

+425

Opmion of the Court.

covers. If at one time he insists on too much, and aCanother
on too little, he does not thereby work any prejudice to the
rights actually secured to him." Other cases to the same
effect are .Aerrill v Yeomans, 94 U. S. 568, Burns v. -Meyer,
100 U. S. 671, and Sutter v. Robnson, 119 U. S. 530.
It is true that, in a case of doubt, where the claim is fairly
susceptible of two constructions, that one will be adopted*
which will preserve to the patentee his actual invention, but
if the language of the specification and claim shows clearly
what he desired to secure as a monopoly, nothing can be held
to be an infringement which does not fall within the terms
the patentee has himself chosen to express his invention.
The principle announced by this court in Vance v Campbell,
1 Black, 427, that, where a patentee declares upon a combination of elements which he asserts constitute the novelty of his
invention, he cannot in his proofs abandon a part of such combination and maintain his claim to the rest, is , pplicable to a
case of this kind where a patentee has claimed more than is
necessary to the successful working of his device.
Applying these familiar principles to the case under consideration, we are -forced to the conclusion that the curved hook
of the defendant is not-an infringement of the double spring
described in the plaintiff's specification and claim. While a
single spring or hook embracing the fore wale of a collar may
be equally a3 efficacious, the patentee is no more at liberty to
say that the spring encircling the after wale is immaterial and
useless than was the patentee in Vance v. Campbell to discard
one of the elements of his combination upon the same ground.
This was evidently the theory of the patentee himself, since,
a little more than two months after this patent was issued, an
a letter to the Patent Office of September 2, 1882, in which
he made application for his second patent, coverng the singleroll spring, he stated that "the single-roll spring must be conceded to be a structure positively and unequivocally different
from the two-roll sprtng." There being no infringement of
this patent, there can be no recovery upon it.
(2) The second pdtent was principally contested upon the
ground of want of invention. In his specification the patentee

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

states it to be an improvement upon his prior patent, but differing materially from it in the fact that "this spring has but
one curved portion, intended for the fore roll only of the colIar, instead, of a curved portion for the fore roll and one for
the back roll." It seems from his letter to the Patent Office
of'Septemer 2, 1882, to which reference has already been
made, that in endeavoring to practice the invention in his
prior patent, he found that-the two-roll spring was not generally applicable to collars of different sizes, as it had been supposed it would be, as the rolls in collars of different sizes and
of different make varied so much that, while it would make a
pad applicable to collars of different sizes for light work, the
same pad could not be used on collars for heavy work, and
hence the invention proved to be imperfect. This resulted in
the invention of the single-roll spring of his second application.
Practically, the only novelty consists in cutting the doubleroll spring in two and using the fore roll only While this
enables the pad to be located on the collar more readily than
when two springs were used, the roll performs the same function as in the prior patent, and- the patent can only be sustaned upon the theory that the discarding of. the after roll
involved invention. What shall be construed as invention
within the meaning of the patent laws has been made the subject of a great amount of discussion inthe authorities, and a
large number of cases, particularly in the more recent volumes
of reports, turn solely upon the question of novelty By
some, invention is described as the contriving or constructing
of that which had not before existed, and by another, giving
a construction to the patent law, as "the finding out, contriving, devising or creating- something new and useful, which
did not exist before, by an operation of the intellect." To
say that te -act of invention is the production of something
new and useful does not solve the difficulty of giving an
accurate definition, since the question of what is new as distinguished from that which is a colorable variation of what
is old, is usually the very question in issue. To say that it
inVolves an operation of the intellect, is a product of intuition,

McCLAIN v. ORTMAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

or of something akin to genius, as distinguished from mere
mechanical skill, draws one somewhat nearer to an appreciation of the true distinction, but it does not adequately express
the idea. The truth is the word cannot be defined in such
manner as to afford any substantial aid in determining
whether a particular device involves an exercise of the inventive faculty or not. In a given case we may be able to say
that there is present invention of a very high order. In
another we can see that there is lacking that impalpable
something which distinguishes invention from simple mechanical skill. Courts, adopting fixed principles as a guide, have
by a process of exclusion determined that certain variations
in old devices do or do not involve invention, but whether
the variation relied upon in a particular case is anything more
than ordinary mechanical skill is a quesf.ion which cannot be
answered by applying the test of any general definition.
Counsel for the plaintiff in the case under consideration has
argued most earnestly that the only practical test of invention
is the effect of the ddice upon the useful arts -in other words,
that utility is the sole test of invention, and, inferentially at
least, that the utility of a device is Donlusively proven by the
extent to which it has gone into general use. He cited in this
connection certain English cases which go far to support his
contention. These cases, however, must not be construed in
such way as to control the language of our statute, which limits
the benefits of .patent laws to things which are new as well as
useful. By the common'law of England, an importer -the
person who introduced into the kingdom from any foreign
country any useful manufacture -was as much entitled to a
monopoly as if he had invented it. Thus in -Darcyv .Allii,
Noy, 173, it is stated that "where any man, by his own charge
and industry, or by his own wit or invention, doth bring any
new trade into the realm, or any engine tending to the furtherthe king
Ance of a trade that never was used before
in consideration
may grant to him a monopoly patent
of fbe good that he doth bring by his invention to the commonwealth," citing several instances of skillimported from foreign
countries. In Edgeb 'y v Stepkens, 1 Webster's Pat. Cas. 95,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

iW"
was said "The act [of monopolies] intended to encourage
new -devices useful to the kingdom, and whether learned by
travel or by study it isthe same thing."
It is evident that these principles have no application to the
patent system of the United States, whose beneficence is strictly
limited to the invention of what is new and useful, and that
the English cases construing even their more recent acts, must
be received with some qualification. That the extent to which
a patented device has gone into use is an unsafe criterion even
Of its actual utility, is evident from the fact that the general introduction of manufactured articles is as often effected by extensive and judicious advertising, activity in putting the goods
upon the market and large commissions to dealers, as by the
intrinsic merit of the articles themselves. The popularity of a
propridtary medicine, for instance, would be an unsafe criterion
,of its real value, since it is a notorious fact that the extent to
which such preparations are sold is very largely depend~nt
upon the liberality with which they are advertised, and the
attractive manner in which they are put, up and exposed to
the eye of the purchaser. If the generality of gales were made
the test of patentability, it would result that a person by securing a patent upon some trifling variation from previously known
methods might, by energy in pushing sales or by superiority
in finighin or decorating his goods, drive competitors out of
the rh ket and -secure a practical monopoly, without in fact
haing.nade the slightest contribution -of value to the useful
arts. The very -case under consideration is not barren of testimony that the great success of the MoClain pads and clasping,
hooks, a large demand for which seems to have arisen and
increased year by year,. is due, partly at least, to the fact that
he was the only one who made the manufacture of sweat pads
a specialty, that he made them of a superior quality, advertised
them in the most extensire and attractive manner, and adopted
means of pushing them upon the market, and thereby largely
increased the extent of their sales. Indeed it is impossible
from this testimony to say.how far the large sales of these
pads is due to their-superiority to others, or to the energy with
-which they were forced upon the market.

McLEAN v. CLAPP.
Syllabus.

While this court has held in a number of cases, even so late
as AIagowan v The -ew York Beltang and Packng Co. ante,
332, decided at the present term, that in a doubtful case the fact
that a patented article had gone into general use is evidence
of its utility, it is not conclusive even of that -much less of
its patentable novelty
In no view that we have been able to take of the case can
we sustain the second McClain patent. We do not care to
inquire how far it was anticipated by the various devices put
in evidence, showing the use of a similar spring for analogous
purposes, since we are satisfied that a mere severance of the
double spring does not involve invention, at least in the absence
of conclusive evidence that the single spring performs some
new and important function not performed by it in the prior
patent. The evidence upon this point is far from satisfactory,
and the decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
-Affrmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JusTicR

GRAY

did not hear the

argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

McLEAN v. CLAPP
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
7o. 31. Argued October 15,16,1891.-

Decided November 2, 1891.

Grymes v. Sanders, 93 U. S. 55, affirmed and applied to the point that where
a party desires to rescind a contract upon the ground of mistake or
fraud, he must, upon discovery of the facts, at once announce his purpose and adhere to it, and that if he be silent, and continue to treat the
property as his own, he will be held to have waived the objection, and
will be conclusively bound by the contract, as if the mistake or fraud
had not occurred.
A holder of the legal title to real estate who has no equitable mterest
therein, calinot, by his act done without the knowledge or consent of the
holder of the equitable title, who is in possession of and residing on the
premises claiming title, rescind a completed settlement of a mortgage

