OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

in error in demanding, two days after the contract was executed, a written guaranty that the machine company would
cool his building to 3 ° Reaumur (or 400 Fahrenheit), and keep
it at that all the time, and in acquiescing in the company's
refusal to give the guaranty for reasons stated, and in thereupon afterwards ordering the company to go on with the work,
as exhibited in the correspondence between the parties, seems
to us to justify no other conclusion than that reached by the
verdict.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirined.
MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY and IR. JusTicE GRAY were not present at the argument and took no part in the decision of this
case.

METROPOLITAN NATIONAL BANK v. CLAGGETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 1064. -Submitted OctQber 19, 1S91. - Decided November 9, 1891.
When a state bank acting under a statute of the State calls in its circulation issued under state laws, and becomes a national bank under the laws
of the United States, and a judgment is recovered in a court of the
State against the national bank upon such outstanding circulation, the
defence of the state statute of limitations having been set up, a Federal
question arises which may give this court 3urisdiction in error.
The conversion of a state bank in New York into a national bank, under the
act of the Leaislature of that State of March 9, 1865 (N. Y. Laws of
1865, c. 97) did not destroy its identity or its corporate existence, nor
discharge it as a national bank from its liability to holders of its outstanding circulation, issued in accordance with state laws.
The provisions in the statute of New York of April 11, 1859 (Laws of 1859,
c. 236) as to the redemption of circulating notes issued by a state bank
and the release of the bank if the notes should not be presented within
six years'do not apply to a state bank converted into a national bank
under the act of March 9, 1865, and not "-closing the business of
banking."
THE

court stated the case as follows

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of New York to review its judgment

METROPOLITAN

BANK v. CLAGGETT.

Statement of the Case.

against the plaintiff in error, with which was united a motion
to affirm that judgment if the motion to dismiss be denied.
The case arose upon a complaint filed in the Supreme Court
of New York June 4, 1886, by the defendant in error and another, as administrators of the goods, chattels and credits of
James H. Paine, deceased, against the plaintiff in error, the
Metropolitan National Bank, demanding judgment against the
latter for S1,300, and interest from May 21, 1886, that being
the aggregate amount due on eighty-four bank bills issued by
the Metropolitan Bank of New York, for the payment of
which it was claimed that the plaintiff in error was liable.
The complaint alleged that, at the time of the issue of the
bank bills sued upon, the Metropolitan Bank of New York
was a state bank duly organized and doing banking business
under the law of the State of New York, having authority to
issue such bills and to put the same into circulation as money,
that from 1858 to 1861 it issued each of the eighty-four bills
therein described, and prior to 1862, for a valuable consideration, delivered the same to James H. Paine, the intestate of
the plaintiffs, that the bills thereupon became his property,
and remained in his ownership and possession until his death,
that the plaintiffs, as administrators of his goods and effects,
duly appointed and qualified, having become the owners and
holders thereof, presented the same on the 21st of May, 1886,
to the Metropolitan National Bank, the plaintiff in error, for
payment, which was refused, that on the 14th of March,
1865, pursuant to the act of Congress of June 3, 1864, and the
act of the legislature of New York of March 9, 1865, the said
state bank became and still is a national bank for carrying on
the business of banking under the name of the Metropolitan
National Bank, and that, by virtue of the laws of the United
States and its own voluntary action, the said Metropolitan
National Bank, plaintiff in error, received and became vested
with all the assets of the Metropolitan Bank of the State,
and assumed and became liable to pay its obligations, including the bank bills described in said complaint.
Three defences were set up in the answer to the complaint.
(1) A denial that the plaintiff in error had at any time as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

sumed or, by any of its acts, become liable to pay the bills
of the Metropolitan Bank of New York, which was a state
bank doing business under the laws of the State of New York
(2) That in 1865 plaintiff in error became a national bank
under the laws of Congress, doing the business of banking, as
such, by virtue of the laws of the United States, under the
corporate name of the Metropolitan National Bank, and that
the Metropolitan Bank of New York (the state bank) went
through certain proceedings, under the New York statutes, of
notice, publication and deposit with the superintendent of
banking of that State, for the redemption of its circulating
bills, on the ground of its closing business, whereby its liability and that of the plaintiff in error on these bills (they not
being presented for payment in due time) ceased six years
from March 14, 1867. (3) That the cause of action was barred
by the statute of limitations of the State of New York.
The action being at issue upon the pleadings and having
come on for trial beiore the court without a jury, the parties
having expressly waived a jury trial, the court made a finding of facts which substantially accorded with the averments
of the complaint, and rendered judgment in favor of the
plaintiff below, the defendant in error herein, for the sum of
$12,300, and interest thereon from May 21, 1886, and costs.
4 N. Y Supplement, 115. This judgment was affirmed by the
general term of the Supreme Court of New York, 56 Hun, 578,
and subsequently by the Court of Appeals of New York. 125
N. Y 729. Hence this writ of error. The defendant moved
to dismiss the writ, on the ground that this court had no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the state court of New York,
and- that no Federal question was raised or decided in the
cQurt below or appeared upon the record.
[The material part of the statutes of New York referred to
will be found in the margin.]
AN AcT %n elation to the bank department. Passed April 11, 1859. Laws
of.1859, c. 236, p. 503.
"1. Whenever any bankihg association, individual banker, receiver of a
baniing association, assignee or assignees of an individual banker, shall

METROPOLITAN BANK v. CLAGGETT.
Argument for the Motions.

.Mr Leslie W Russell for the motions, on the question of
3ursdiction, said
have given notice to the superintendent of their intention to close the business of banking, or the trustees or legal representatives of any incorporated
bank whose charter has expired, or the receiver of any incorporated bank,
which shall have been declared insolvent, shall have redeemed at least ninety
per cent of their circulating notes, outstanding at the date of such notice,
expiration of charter or declaration of insolvency, they shall be entitled to
deposit with the superintendent, and he is hereby authorized to receive, a
deposit of money equal to the amount of the outstanding circulation at the
time of such deposit, to be placed by him in some bank in the city of Albany,
in good credit, upon the receipt of which it shall be lawful for the superintendent to give up all other securities theretofore deposited with him for
the redemption of circulating notes issued thereon.
"2. Upon the receipt of such deposit the superintendent shall immediately give notice in the state paper, and at least one newspaper in the
county where such bank, banking association or banker shall have been
located or doing business, which notice shall be published at least once a
week for six months successively that the notes of such bank, banking
association or banker will be redeemed by him, at the bank where such deposit is made, at par; and that all the outstanding circulating notes of such
bank, banking association Or banker, must be so presented for redemption
within six years from the date of such notice, and all notes which shall not
be thus presented for redemption and payment within the time specified in
such notice, shall cease to be a charge upon the funds in the hands of the
superintendent for that purpose.
"3. At the expiration of such notice, it shall be lawful for the superintendent to surrender, and such bank, banking'association, banker, receiver,
assignees or trustees, or their legal representatives, shall -be entitled to
receive from hun all the money remaining in his hands after such redemption, except so much thereof as may be necessary to pay the reasonable
expenses chargeable against the said accounts, including the payment for
the publication of the above mentioned notices.
"4. All circulating notes of such bank, banking association or banker,
which shall not have been presented for payment within the period required
by such iotice, shall, upon the expiration of such period, cease to be a lien
or charge upon the property and effects of such bank, banking association or
banker, in the hands of. such receivers, assignees, trustees or otherwise;
ana all liability of such receivers, assignees, trustees, banks, banking associations or bankers, for or on account of any circulating notes, which shall
not have been presented within the time aforesaid, shall also cease."
AN AcT enabling the banks of thzs State to become assoczations for the purpose of banking under the laws of the United States. Passed March 9, 1865.
Laws of 1865, c. 97, p. 169.
"§ 2. Any bank incorporated or organized by authority of this State,

OCTOBER TERI,

1891.

Argument for the Motions.

The rules in regard to jurisdiction in these cases are well
settled. If the facts of the case are broad enough to sustain
the judgment on grounds entirely aside from any Federal
question, (ifone exists,) and the state court puts its judgment
on those grounds, no case is made for review here. .Murdock
v City of 1[emphts, 20 Wall. 590, Jenk?ns v. Loewenthal, 110
U S. 222, Johnson v Rtsk, 137 U S. 300.
To give this court jurisdiction, it must appear affirmatively
not only that a Federal question was presented for decision to
the hioghest state court having jurisdiction, but that its decision
was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it
was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could
not have been given without deciding it. DeScussure v Gaillard, 127 U S. 216.
Although a case from the highest court of a State may
involve a Federal question, yet if that court proceeds upon
another and distinct ground, not involving a Federal question,
and sufficient in itself to maintain the final judgment without
reference to the Federal question involved, its judgment will
be affirmed here. Beaupre v Noyes, 138 U. S.397.
In determining the ground upon which a judgment in a state
court was rendered, this court may refer to the opinion of that
court, and when it does not appear upon what ground the
kighest court of a state placed its judgment, (which is the case
at bar,) and the judgment may be supported without deciding a Federal question, this court is without jurisdiction of it
which shall become an association for carrying on the business of banking
under the laws-of the United States, shall be deemed to have surrendered
its charter if it shall have complied with the requirements of this act, provided, that every such bdnk shaU nevertheless be continued a bodyrcorporate for the term of three years after the time of such surrender, for the
purpose of prosecuting and defending suits by and against it, and of enabling it to close
concerns and to dispose of and convey its property- but
not for the purpose of continuing under the laws of this State the business
for which it was established."
"§ 8. Nothing in this act shall be construed as releasing such association
from its obligations, to pqy and discnarge all the liabilities created by law or
incurred by the bank before becoming such association, or any tax imposed
by the laws of this State up to the date of its becoming such association, in
proportion to the time since the next preceding payment therefor."

METROPOLITAN

BANK v. CLAGGETT.

Argument for Appellee.

in error.
293.

Wood .7Towng .lachkne

Co. v Skznner, 139 U S.

.Abr Charles A. Peabody for appellee,on the merits said.
The court did not hold the plaintiff in error liable because
the state bank transferred its assets to the plaintiff in error.
If it did, such transfer took place more than twenty years
ago, and the six years' statute of limitations would apply
The mere transfer of property from A to B does not create
a common law liability on the part of B to pay A's creditors.
A creditor of A may obtain judgment and by a suit in equity
get a lien upon the property transferred to B and by proceedings in equity recover his debt. But here also the statute of
limitations would apply, and this court will not assume that
the New York court ignored that defence which was duly set
up in the answer.
The only way the judgment can be sustained is by holding
that the contract of the state bank became the contract of the
national bank without any change or modification.
The plaintiff in error became a corporation without the aid
of the laws of New York. From abundant caution it complied with all the provisions of the act of 1865. The state law
could not impose on the plaintiff in error the obligations of
another corporation and it did not attempt to do so. The
most that the state law says is that the law should not be
construed as releasing the obligations of the old bank. No
searching of the law will discover any provision making the
two banks identical.
The question involved is not a frivolous one. The New
York Court of Appeals, City Bank v Phe4ps, 86 N. Y 484,
491, says this question "1is not so easy of concession or refutation as it may seem at first sight."
A judgment for over $14,000 has been obtained against a
corporation created by the national authority upon contracts
which it never made and never assumed. Although a corporation during its existence continues to be the same body, the
stockholders, whose property the corporation holds, change,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and after twenty-five years very few persons are probably now
interested in this matter who were stockholders of the plaintiff
in error in 1865. The present directors are trustees winding
up a closing bank, and it is their duty to ascertain with care
who are the true creditors of the bank.
M . JusTIcE LnIA.I,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The first assignment of error is as follows:
"That the Metropolitan National Bank, the plaintiff in error,
which was created under the act of Congress entitled I An act
to provide a hational currency secured by the pledge of United
States bonds, and to provide for the circulation and redemption
thereof,' approved June 3, 1864, is held liable to pay the bills
described in the complaint, which were made by the Metropolitan Bank, a corporation created under the law of the State
of New Yorl, entitled 'An act to authorize the business of
banking,' passed April 18, 1838."
The second defence set up in the answer, as we have seen,
is, that the defendant below (the plaintiff in error) became a
national bank under the authority of the act of Congress of
1864, entitled "An act to provide a national currency secured
by the pledge of United States bonds, and to provide for the
circulation and redemption thereof," and thereby acquired
immunity from liability for the bank bills issued by the state
bank. The court'found that the plaintiff in error did become
a national bank doing a banking business under the laws of
the United States, but decided that it did not thereby acquire
an immunity from liability to pay the bank bills of the Metro:politan Bank of New York, upon the ground that the proceedings set up in the answer did not terminate the existence of
the state bank, but simply effected a continuation of the same
body under a changed jurisdiction. In this we think the record
presents a claim of Federal immunity raised by the plaintiff in
error and denied by the court, which brings the case within
the jurisdiction of this court, and upon the authority of
_iNulta v _Lockrsdge, decided at this term of the court, ante,

MvETROPOLITAN BANK v. CLAGGETT.
Opinion of the Court.

327, the motion to dismiss is denied. But as the record also
shows there was color for the motion to dismiss, it is proper
that we should proceed to a review of the judgment of the
court below
The question we are to consider here is, did the court err in
holding that the plaintiff m error was not exonerated from liability either by its becoming a national bank or by the proceedings for the redemption and retirement of its circulating
bills issued whilst a state bank, which proceedings, it was
claimed, were in strict observance of every requirement of the
New York statute of 1859 in relation thereto, or by the statute
of limitations of the State of New York? The court decided
that the New York statute providing for a redemption of circulating notes and for releasing the bank, if the notes were not
presented in six years, applied alone to banks "closing the
business of banking," that the change or conversion of the
Metropolitan Bank into the Metropolitan National Bank did
not "close its business of banking" nor destroy its identity or
its corporate existence, but simply resulted in a continuation
of the same body with the same officers and stockholders, the
same property, assets, and banking business under a changed
jurisdiction, that it remained one and the same bank, and
went on doing business uninterruptedly, and that, Therefore,
the statutory proceedings relied upon in the answer could not
operate as a bar to the liability of either bank to pay the bills
delivered by the Metropolitan Bank in 1861 to plaintiffs'
intestate.
This decision is so manifestly correct that it needs no argument to sustain it. The judgment is, therefore,
The O=EF JUSTICE, Mx. JUsTIcE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTiCE
GAY took no part in the consideration a ' disposition of
this motion.

