OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
Nos. 50, §3, 51, 52. Argued and submitted April 10, 13, 1891.-Decided May 25,1891.
An admitted or clearly established misapprehension of law in the malnng of
a contract creates a basis for the interference of a court of equity, resting on its discretion, and to be exercised only in unquestionable and flagrant cases.
*Whether laches is to be imputed to a party seeking the aid of a court of
equity depends upon the circumstances of the particular case.
In this case it is held on the evidence that the bond given by Griswold in
the ne exeat proceedina conditioned that the defendant in that proceeding should " abide and perform the orders and decrees" of the court was
executed by him under such an apprehension of the obligations in law
assumed by him in executing and delivering it, as to make it the duty of a
court of equity to reform it so as to make him liable for the penal sum
named, only in the event that the principal fail to appear and become
subject to the orders and decrees of the court; but that, the defendant in
the suit in which the ne exeat was issued having died, and such a decree
being therefore inappropriate, and Griswold being guilty of no laches. a
decree should be entered perpetually enjoining the prosecution of any
action, suit or proceeding to make him liable in any sum on or by reason
of said bond.
In the action at law upon the bond given in the ne exeat proceedings (No.
53) the court- erred in ordering the amended pleas to be stricken from
the files.
D. was sued in the Supreme Court of Rhode Island by stockholders in the
Cr&dit Mobilier for an accounting and payment of what might be found

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Statement of the Case..
due on tiieaccounting, for securities and moneys coming into his hands
as president of the Credit Nlobilier. The receiver of that company in
Pennsylvania released hmn from such liability. The Supreme Court of
Rhode Island would not allow that release to be interposed as a defence.
Held, that the error, if any, in this respect could not be corrected by bill
in equity filed by a surety on a bond given to release D. when arrested
on ne exeat proceedings in that -Rhode Island suit.
A pleading presenting only a qiiestion of error in a judgment of a state
court does not go to the jurisdiction.

THE first of the above suits was brought by Griswold, a citizen of New York, against the appellees, citizens of Rhode
Island, to obtain a decree cancelling, or (if relief of that character could not be granted) reforming a certain bond, for the
sum of $53,735, executed by Thomas C. Durant, as principal,
and Griswold and S. D. Bradford, as his sureties. It was
heard i.pon bill, answer and proofs, and the bill was dismissed.
The action at law,, No. 53, was brought by the appellees
against Griswold upon the above bond in one of the courts of
Rhode Island, and was removed, upon his petition, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Rhode Island,
where a judgment was rendered against him for tne sum of
866,470.
The other two cases, Nos. ,1 and 52, were suits in equity
brought by Griswold, pending the action at law in the Circuit
Court, to obtain an injunction *againstits further prosecution.
The relief asked, in each of those suits. was denied, and the
bills were dismissed.
All of the cases have their origin in a suit in equity brought,
August 22, 1868, in the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, by
Isaac P Hazard, of that State, against Thomas C. Durant,
Oliver Ames, Benjamin E. Bates, John Duff, Cbrnelius S. Bushnell, Sidney Dillon, Henry S. MeComb, the Credit Mobilier of
America, a Pennsylvania corporation, and the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, a corporation created by acts of Congress.
Hazard sued on behalf of himself and all other stockholders m
the first-named corporation who should become parties to his
bill. Durant, from an early date in 1864: until May 18, 1867,
was president of the Credit Mobilier of America, having, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

was alleged, to a great extent, the management of its affairs
and the confidence of its directors and trustees, as well as the
control of its finances and disbursements, and of its treasurer,
clerks and servants. The theory of the bill was that he had

acquired a large amount of the stock of the Credit Mobilier
of America upon which dividends had been paid in money
and in the stock and bonds of the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, the amount of such bonds exceeding, it was alleged,
seven hundred thousand dollars, and the amount of such stock
of the last-named corporation being nearly two millions of dollars; and that the shares of stock, bonds and moneys, so received by him, belonged equitably to the Credit Mobilier of
America and its stockholders.
The bill alleged that Durant's pecuniary condition was precarious, that he was, and for a long time had been, largely
engaged in hazardous speculations and financial operations,
sustaining thereby heavy losses, and liable to sustain others,
that any recovery against him, it was feared, could not be
-enforced by execution or the ordinary process of law, that he
was "'about to depart out of the State and out of the jurisdiction of this court," and that the defendants, (the individual
defendants being sued as trustees in a certain contract with
the Union Pacific Railroad Company, the profits of which
belonged to the Credit Mobilier of America and its stoclholders,) "though requested so to do," had'wholly neglected and
refused to take any steps to compel him to account for said
moneys, stocks and bonds, so received ana improperly appropriated.
The principal relief asked was that Durant be required to
pay over and deliver to the Credit M-obilier of America and
the plaintiff Hazard such sums of money and shares of stock
as should appear upon an accounting to be justly due or belonging to that corporation and to fHazard, and to make such
transfer of the stock and bonds as would fully protect its and
his rights in the premisps, that the amounts ascertained to be
due be adjudged a lien upon the shares in the stock of each of
said corporations,. owned or held by, or standing in the name
of, Durant, as well as upon the above contract assigned to the

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Statement of the Case.

defendant trustees, and the dividends, earnings, stocks and
bonds received or to be received by virtue of that contract, to
the extent of the shares to which Durant might be entitled
under it, and that on default in the payment and delivery of
the moneys, stocks and bonds so found due, all such stocks
and bonds be sold under the direction of the court, or otherwise transferred and apportioned equitably among the rightful
owners and claimants thereof, and that such stock, bonds,
moneys, interest and rights, so procured by Durant, be deemed
and taken as the rightful property of the Credit Mobilier of
America and its stockholders. The bill prayed that Durant
be restrained from departing out of the State, and out of the
jurisdiction of the court, by writ of ne exeat, issued under its
seal and by its order.
A writ of ne emat was ordered to be issued, August 22,
1868, for $53,735. It was in these words
"Whereas it is represented to our Supreme Court, sitting in
equity, on the part of Isaac P Hazard and others, complainants, against Thomas C. Durant and others, defendants, that
said Thomas C. Durant is greatly indebted fo the said complainants, and designs quickly to go into other parts beyond
this State, (as by oath made in that behalf appears,) which
tends to the great prejudice and damage of the said complainants: Therefore, in order to prevent this injustice, we hereby
command you that you do, without delay, cause the said
Thomas C. Durant to come before you and give sufficient bail
or security, in the sum of fifty-three thousand seven hundred
and thirty-five dollars, that he, said Thomas C. Durant, will
not go or attempt to go into parts beyond this State without
the leave of our said court, and in case the said Thomas C.
Durant shall refuse to give such bail or security, then you are
to commit him, the said Durant, to our county jail, in your
precinct, there to be kept in safe custody until he shall do it
of his own accord, and when you shall have taken such security you are forthwith to make and return a certificate thereof
to our said court, distinctly and plainly, under your hand, together with this writ."
Durant was arrested under this writ on the night of August

OCTOBER TERM', 1890.
Statement of the Case.

22, 1868, and on the 24th he executed, with Griswold and
Bradford, as his sureties, the following bond, drawn by one of
Hazard's attorneys
"Know all men that we, Thomas 0. Durant, as principal,
and John K. A. Griswold and S. Dexter Bradford, as sureties,
are firmly bout to Isaac P Hazard, Rowland Hazard, Rowland G. Hazard, Elizabeth Hazard, Elizabeth Hazard, trustee,
Anna Hazard, Mary P Hazard, Lydia Torrey, Sophia Vernon
and Anna Ilorner in the sum of fifty-three thousand seven
hundred and thirty-five dollars, to be paid said obligees, their
executors, administrators or assigns, to which payment we
bind ourselves, our severai and respective heirs, executors and
administrators, jointly and severally, hereby
"Sealed with our seals and dated this 24th day of August,
A.D. 1868.

"The condition of this obligation is that said Thomas 0.
Durant shall on his part abide and perform the orders and
decrees of the Supreme Court of the State of Rhode Island in
the suit in equity of Isaac P Hazard and others against said
Thomas C. Durant and others, now pendifig in said court
within and for the county of Newport." This is the bond
above referred to.
Under the latter date, and presumbly before the execution
of that bond, the attorneys of Hazard and Durant signed the
following agreement "In the above-entitled case it is agreed
that said Thomas C. Durant shall file a bond, with surety in
the penalty marked in the writ of ne exeat therein, to abide
and perform the orders and decrees of the court in said cause,
and that thereupon the writ of ne exeat aforesaid shall be discharged, and that the court may ehter decree accordingly"
The court, under the same date, entered the following order
"Thomas 0. Durant, one of the defendants in this suit, having
executed and filed a bond, with sureties, to abide and perform
the orders and decrees of the court made in this suit, it is now,
by consent, ordered that the writ of ne exeat heretofore issued
be discharged." For some reason, not explained, the writ of
ne exeat was not returned to the clerk's office and filed until
October 21, 1868. The sheriff made this return on the

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Statement of the Case.

writ "Newport, August 24, 1868. I caused the withinnamed Thomas 0. Durant personally to come before me, as
within commanded, on the 22d day of this month, and now
the writ is discharged by order of court."
On the 2d of December, 1882, more than fourteen years
after the commencement of Hazard's suit, it was ordered,
adjudged and decreed in that suit, amnong other things, as
follows
"Second. That the defendant, Thomas C. Durant, is accountable for and do, within 90 days from the date hereof,
pay the sum of $16,071,659.97, with interest from this date,
the said sum, witb interest thereon, to be deposited in the
registry of this 'court, or, be paid, in the first instance, to
Rowland Hazard, of South Kingston, in said State, and Henry
Martin, of Brooklyn, in the State of :New York, who are
hereby appointed special commissioners, with authority, jointly
and severally to collect and receive the same, and with power
to take such steps to collect the same as may be necessary and
according to law, and said fund, or so much thereof as may be
collected by process or otherwise, is hereby directed to, be paid
and deposited in the registry of this court to the credit of this'
cause.
"Third. Of the aforesaid total sum of $16,071,659.97, the
defendant, Thomas C. Durant. is hereby allowed and is decreed
to be entitled to pay and discharge $8,816,232.93, or any part
thereof pro tanto, by transferring and delivering stock of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company and first mortgage and sinking-fund bonds of said company as per statement 'G,' now
exhibited to the court and directed to be filed in this cause,
with all dividends which may have been collected or received
by said defendant or his assigns after the date of this decree,
together with interest on the same to the date of payment
thereof by said defendant, the certificates of said stock, with
transfers thereof, and the said bonds to be delivered to the
said Rowland Hazard and Henry Martin, who are hereby
appointed special commissioners to receive the sare, and who
are hereoy authorized, and directed to sell the same, or such
portions thereof as.-may he -liveredJ.Q .them--from tame to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

time as they are secured, at public auction, and receive the
proceeds thereof, and, after deducting the costs and charges.
of such sales, deposit the same m the registry of this court to.
the credit of this cause: Pravd, however, That the said
privilege herein granted to the said defendant, Thomas 0.
Durant, to transfer and deliver said stocks and bonds in
partial discharge and payment of the sum herein before decreed
to be paid by hin be exercisea by him within thirty days from
the date of the entering this decree, and that in default of
such transfer and delivery, or of the transfer and delivery of'
the entire amount of said stock and bonds within the said
thirty days, the obligation o? the defendant, Thomas 0.
Durant, tq pay the said proportion of 'the said sum or of the.
residue of the same, after deducting the amount of such stocks.
and bonds as may be delivered, as aforesaid, at their face'
value, shall become, and is hereby declared to be, absolute:.
And provided further, neverthess, That the said option or
privilege. of the said Thomas C: Durant shall not interfere in
any manner with any order or decree in the cause touchingthe transfer, delivery, sale or other disposition of said stock
and bonds.
"Fourth. The defendant, .Thomas 0. Durant, is likewise,
ordered and directed to transfer and deliver, within thirty
days from the date hereof five thousand seven hundred and
seven. j (5707i%) shares of the stock of the Credit Mfobilier
of America (which stock has been found by the master to.
have been purchased with the funds of the Credit Mobilier,
-and which stock with any dividends or profits accrued or to.
accrue on the same, is hereby declared to be%the property of'
said corporation, subject to the decrees and orders in this
cause), with any interest, dividends, rights, bi-nefits and profits'
which may have accrued-to the said Thomas C.Durant as the
'holder of the said 5707% shares f stock or any part thereof
and not hereinbefore qharged against him, said transfer and
delivery to be made to the said Rowland Hazard and Henry'
Mirtin or.either of them. as special commissioners, with power,
which is hereby granted to said -commis'ione-, forthwith to,
take such measures by sut or suits in their own names or

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Statement of the Case.

otherwise, as they may be advised is lawful and necessary to
enforce such transfer, collection or delivery, and said stocks
to be held by said commissioners subject to the further order
of the court in this cause.
"Fifth. All interlocutory injunctions heretofore made in
this cause, so far as consistent with this decree, are declared
to be and are hereby made perpetual, and the further consideration of the cause, and particularly as to allowances to the
complainants for costs, expenses and services, and as to the,
distribution of the funds that may be deposited in the registry
of the court to the credit of the cause, and also the consideration of any order or decree which may be necessary in the
premises against the defendant, Thomas 0. Durant, by reason
of any default which may be made by him touching any portion of this decree, and also the consideration of any other and
further decree, herein against or concerning the defendants
other than the said Thomas C. Durant, be, and they hereby
are, directed to stand over, with leave to any party in interest,
save parties in contempt or parties who may appear to be for
any other cause disqualified, to apply at any time for further
orders and directions."
The bill in case No. 50 was filed September 13, 1881.
That suit proceeds upon these grounds That the bond of
August 24; 1868, whereby Griswold became bound, as one
of the sureties of Durant, that the latter should "on his part
abide and perftyrm the orders and decrees of the Supreme
Court of the State of Rhode Island in the suit in equity of
Isaac P Hazard ail others against said Thomas 0. Durant
and others, now [thob] pending in said court," was obtained
by fraud and by concealment from him of facts be was entitled
to have. communicated to him before he assumed the obligations imposed by that instrument, that he intended to sign,
and believed, at the time, that he signed, a bond which simply
bound him for the appearance of Durant, so that he should be
personally amenable to the process and orders of the court in
the suit brought by Hazard, that the execution of the bond
in. question was the result of mistake, that the agreement
whereby, upon the execution by Durant of a bond, the writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ne exeat was to be discharged, was made without his knowledge or consent, as was also the order of court in -pursuance
of such agreement, and was in derogation of his riohts, that
his purpose to become surety only for Durant's appearance to
answer the process of the court, was well known at the time
to the.laintiff and his attorneys, who prepared, and supervised the execution of, the bond, and that the writ of ne exeat
wa sued out upon the ground that Durant was about to depart
from the State wnen, in fact, he only contemplated coming to
the State.
Protesting that the legal effect of the bond was that he
should be iesponsible only for the appearance of Durant so as
to be subject to the process of the court in the Hazard suit,
and averring his willingness to execute a proper ne exeat bond,
he prayed that the bond in question be set aside as having
been obtained by fraud, imposition and mistake, or reformed,
as indicated, and that the defendants be restrained by injunction from enforcing it in its present shape.
The answers of the defendants put in issue the material allegations of the bill. The plaintiff filed a replication, and proofs
being taken, and the cause heard, the bill as already stated,
was dismissed. 26 Fed. Rep. 135.
The action at law, being case No. 53, was commenced,
March 3i 1883, in one of the courts of Rhode Island, and was
removed, upon Griswold's application, to the Circuit Court of
the United States. The declaration set out the bond- of
August 2,J1868r..alleged that Bradford, one of* the sureties
thereon, was dead, and'that Durant had not kept its condition
in that .he had not performed the above decree of December 2, 1882, in the equity suit brought by Hazard, whereby the
plaintiffs Rowland Hazard,, Rowland G. Hazard, Anna Hazard,
and Lydia Torrey were 6ntitled to have and demand of him
the amount of said bond, $53,735. A copy of that decree was
made an exhibit in-the declaration. The defendant Griswold
-filed ten pleas, each of which was in bar of the action. One
of the pleas made a copy of the proceedings 'in Hazard's suit
a part of it. Demurrers and replications were filed to the
pleas, those to the second, third, fourth, fifth and seventh

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Statement of 'the Case.

pleas being special demurrers.

By an order entered July 1,

1884, the demurrers were sustained to the second, third, fourth,

fifth and seventh pleas, the opinion of the court being delivered
by Mr. Justice Gray 21 Fed. Rep. 178.
Pursuant to a stipulation of counsel, dated November 26,
1883, that the plaintiff might demur specially to the second,
third; fourth, fifth and seventh pleas, and, in case the demurrers were overruled, reply to those pleas as if no demurrers
had been filed, and that amended pleas, if desired, might be
filed by the defendant, and in obedience to the order of court
requiring the amended pleas to be filed on or before October
15, 1884, the defendant, on the 14th of October, 1884, filed
amended third, fourth, fifth and seventh pleas. The case -was
subsequently heard on a motion by plaintiff, made November
19, 1884, that the amended pleas be stricken out, and on the
30th of March, 1885, this order was made "Plaintiff's motion
to strike amended pleas from the files is granted." Certain
stipulations were made between counsel, among others, one
to the effect "that the plaintiffs were able to prove under the
decree of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, in the equity
suit brought by Hazard, an amount of damage in excess of the
penal' sum of the bond declared on m this suit." A jury having been waived in writing, the court gave judgment, as of
February 12, 1887, against Griswold, for $66,470.
The suit in equity No. 51 was brought June 12, 1885.
The bill in that case, after referring to the suit in equity
brought by Isaac P Hazard in 1868, showed that, on the 17th
of November, 1875, Rowland G. Hazard commenced a suit in
equity in one of the courts of Pennsylvania, against the Credit
Mobilier of America and others, which was subsequently rqmoved to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, that being -the domicil of the
corporation, that in such suit Oliver Ames was appointed
receiver of all the goods, chattels, rights and effects of the
corporation, and was authorized by the court in Pennsylvania
to deliver to Durant a.deed of release from all a~tions, caises
of action, suits, bills, bonds, \yvitmgs obligatory, debts, dues,
duties, reckomngs, accounts, sums -of mogeye' dgments, exe-

270-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

cutions, extents, quarrels, controversies, trespasses, damages

and demands. whatever, both in law or equity, which the
Credit M[obilier of America then had, or might at any time
thereafter have, claim, allege or demahd, against said Durant,
for or by reason or means of any matter, cause or thing whatever, that, afterwards, on the 27th day of October, 1881,
Ames, under the said authority, and in consideration of the
execution by Durant of a deed conveying the title to certain -lands mentioned in the order of court authorizing the
release, delivered to the latter a deed of release, of the kind
above indicated, of all sums of money then due or owing to,
or thereafter to become due to, said corporation, that the
above equity suit in the Supreme Court of Rhode Island was,
and had been, wholly controlled by Rowland G. Hazard, that
notwithstanding the delivery of the above deed to Durant, the
latter suit was proceeded with, and the Supreme Court of
Rhode Island rendered a decree refusing to allow him to set it
up as a bar to the entering of such'decree, on the ground that
he was in contempt of that court for violation of one of its
decrees rendered therein, and that after the delivery of the
deed of release to Durant the plaintiff requested the defendants to surrender the bond of August 24, 1868, and to abstain
from suing him thereon, but they refused to comply with that
request. The relief asked was an injunction restraining- the
defendants from further proceeding in the action at law
Upon a hearing before Judges Colt and Carpenter a demurrer
to the bill was sustained, and the bill dismissed, October 28,
1886, Judge Carpenter delivering the opinion of the court.
28 Fed. Rep. 597.
The bill in case No. 52 was filed June 12, 1885. It assailed
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Rhode Islaild over
the subject matter of the suit in equity brought by Hazard
upon the ground that before bringing it neither the plaintiff
therein, Isaac P Hazard, nor any other stockholder of the
Credit Mobilier of America, requested the managing c9mmittee
of the board of directors or the stockholders of that corpora,
tion to begin legal or equitable proceedings against Durant.
The cause was heard upon demurrer before, Judges Colt and

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Mr. Carter for Griswold.

Carpenter. The demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed,
the opinion of the-Circuit Court being delivered by Judge
Carpenter. 28 Fed. Rep. 578.
.r James C. Carter f~r Griswold argued Nos. 50 and 53,
and submitted iNos. 51 and 52.
In No. 50 the specification of errors relied upon was as
follows
.First.- That the court below erred in overlooking the distinguishing feature of the case that the obligation sought to
be cancelled or reformed was one of suretyshsp, and was
entered into under circumstances well calculated to create
misafprehenszon in the minds of the obligors as to its. real
character,
Second. - That the court below erred by acting upon the
-view that in order to entitle the complainant to relief it was
necessary to show that both parties to the instrument understood that it was to be a bond for the afpearance only of
Durant in the equity suit, and that it was not enough'to show
that the complainant, Griswold, supposed it.to be of that character, and that the obligees took it, well knowing or having
good reason to know that such was the belief under which the
complainant Griswold was acting.
.Thtrd. - That the, court below, even upon the view that
the case was the ordinary one of an attempt to impeach a
written instrument on the ground of mistake, and without
reference to the points of the character of the obligation as
being that of suretyship, and of the peculiar circumstances
under which it was procured, erred by deciding, against the
weight -of evidence, that the mistake was not sufficiently
proved.
The following cases were cited by .rA Carterin this case
Barber v. Barber, 21 -How. 582, Samuel v. Howartk, 3 Meriv
272, 278, Railton v .fathews, I10 Cl. & Fin. 935, -Russellv
'AsJ, 5 Yes. 96 Brayton v. Smith, 6 Paige, 489, .Acamara.
v 'iDwyer, 'T Paige, 239, .C. 32 Am. Dec. 627,
fitche v
Bunch, 2 Paige, 605, . C. 22 Am Dec. 669 Johnson v. Oken-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Mr. Carter for Griswold.

dentn, 5 Gill & J. 463, R.amilton v Watson, 12 C. & Fin.
109, 119, Franklin Bank v Cooper, 36 Maine, 179, 197,
Williams v. Bayley, L. R. 1 H. L. 200, Daves %.Lond. Prov.
.Mar Ins. Co., 8 Ch. D 469, Wythes v. .Labouchere,3 De G.
& J. 593, Phillips v Foxall, L. R. Q. B. 666, .Meadows v
]Meadows, 16 Beav 401, Millar v. Crazg, 6 Beav 433, Cock-ung v Pratt, 1 Yes. Sen. 400, Brown v Lamphear, 35 Vermont, 252, ]Paget v..Marshall, 28 Ch. Div 255, Garrardv
Frankel, 30 Beav. 445, Small v. Currze, 2 Drewry, 102, 114,
IFauters v. Van Vorst, 28 N. J Eq. 103, iSocomb "v. Robert,
16 La. 173, -Lloydv .McTeer, 33 Georgia, 37.
In No. 53 .Ar Carter's specification of errors relied on was
as follows
Fist. - That the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the second original plea.
Second. - That the court below erred in sustaining the
demurrer to the third original plea.
Third. - That the court erred in striking out the third plea
as amended.
Fourth.- That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer
to the fourth original plea.
c.7ifth. -That the court erred in striking out the fourth
plea as amended.
Sioth. - That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer to
the fifth original plea.
Seventh. - That the court erred in striking out the fifth
plea as amended.
.ighth. - That the court below erred in not granting at the
trial the motion of the plaintiff in error for judgment on his
eighth plea.
ffinth. - That the court below erred in not granting at the
trial the motion of the plaintiff in error for judgment on his
ninth plea.
le cited ]2ailton v- Mathews, 10 C1. & Fin. 935, TFilliams
v Bayley, L. R. 1 H. L. 200, 219, Brandt on Suretyship, §§
365, 366, Baylies on Sureties, p. 293, Lee v Jones, 17 C. B.

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Citations for Hazard.

(N. S.) 482, Franklin Bank v Cooper, 36 Maine, 179, Pzdcock v. Bzsho2, 3 B. & C. 605, The Cumberland Coal Co. v
The Hofman Steam. Coal Co., 30 Barb. 159, 171, Howelk v
Chtcago & Northwestern Railroad, 51 Barb. 378, Strong v.
Grannws, 26 Barb. 122, Osborn v Robbsns, 36 N. Y 365,
Ingersoll v. Roe, 65 Barb. 346, State v.. Brantley, 27 Alabama,
44, GrJfth v Sitgreaves, 90 Penn. St. 161.
MX' Elias .Merwzn and Xr Samuel -Maddox submitted all
the cases on their briefs.
In No. 50 they cited Wallingford v Mutual Soceety, 5
App. Cas. 685, Gi'swold, Petitioner, 13 R. I. 125, Hlazard
v -Durant,9 R. I. 602, 606, Potter, J , .Dzek v. Swvnton, 1
Yes, & Bea. 371, Stewart v Graham, 19 Ves. 312, Hearn v
Insurance Co., 20 Wall. 490; Snell v Insurance Co., 98 U. S.
85, Stockbrzdge Iron Co. v. Hudson Iron Co., 102 Mass. 45,
S. C. 107 Mass. 290, 316, larrtson v. Hartford Insurance
Co., 30 Fed. Rep. -862, Hunt v Rousmanwere, 1 Pet. 1, 15,
Upton Asssgnee v Tribilcock, 91 U. S. 45, United States v
Ames, 99 U. S. 35,. 46, Railroad Company v Souther, la
Wall. 517, 524, Hart v Hart, 18 Ch. D. 670, lrnham v.
Child, 1 Brown Oh. 92, Allen v. Galloway, 30 Fed. Rep. 466;
Rashdall v Ford,L. R. 2 Eq. 750, 754, Blackburn's Case, 8
De G. McN. & G.. 177, 180, Germ. Am. Ins. Co. v Dans,
131 Mass. 316, Oliver v. insurance Co., 2 Curtis, 277, 296.
In No. 53 they cited Slack v -iMcagan, 15 Illinois, 242;
Capuro v Builders' Ins. Co., 39 California, 123, .uqyhy v
Byrd, Hemp. 221, Cole v Joliet Opera Co., 79 Illinois, 96, Serwe v Heermance, 2 Johns. 96, Hale v. W Va. Oil -&c. Co.,
11 W Va. 229, 235, Jones v. Albee, 70 Illinois, 34, Sterling v
.MercantileIns. Co., 32 Penn. St. 75., S. C. 72 Am. Dec. 773,
-Darnellv Rowland, 30 Indiana, 3412, JAnson v Stuart, 1
T. R. 748, Hynson v. Dunn, 5 Arkansas, 395, Hopkmas v.
TFoodward,75 Illinois, 62, 65, Abraham v. Gray, 14 Arkansas,
301, Toroughgood's Case, 2 Rep. 9, Hawks v. -awkvns,
50 California, 558, Rogers v. Place, 29 Indiana, 577, Seeraht
v. -F~tcher,6 Blackford, 380; Insurance Co. v. Hodgkins, 66
Maine, 109, .Ailler v J'lliott, 1 -Indiana, 267, S. C. 50 Am.
VOL. CXL-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ewcastle &
Dec. 475, Starr v. Bennett, 5 Hill, 303, Cle'mn v
Danville Railroad, 9 Indiana, 488, S. C. 68 Am. Dec. 653,
Blackurn's Case, 8 DeG. M. & G. 176, Rashdall v. Ford,
L. R. 2 Eq.750; .McDonald v. Trafton, 15 Maine, 225, Zekner v Kepler, 16 I4diana, 290, Moss v Riddle, 5 0ranch, 351,
357, Hazard v Durant,11 R. I. 195, Harvey v. Taylor, 2
Wall. 328, Cooper v Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, Cornett v.
Williams, 20 Wall. 226, Jesup v Hill, 7 Paige, 95, Hazard v Durant,9 R. I. 602, 606, People v Norton, 5 Selden,
176, Bassett v Craofts, 129 Mass. 513, Huscombe v Standzng, Cro. Jac. 187, Mantell v. Gibbs, Brownl. & Gold. 64,
,Plummer v. The People, 16 Illinois, 358, Robznson v. Gould,
11 Cush. 55, Fay v Oatley, 6 Wisconsin, 42, McClintec v
'Cumm'tns, 3 McLean, 158, Thompson v. -Lockwood, 15 Johns.
:256, Fisher v Shattuck, 17 Pick. 252, Bowman v Heller, 130
iMass. 153, Har,-s v Carmody, 131 Mass. 51, Gmrifith v Sitgreaves, 90 Penn. St. 161, Peck v Jenness, 7 How 612,
Hutchtnson v Green, 2 McCrary, 471, Atwood v .Merry-weather,L. R. 5 Eq. 464, Tracy v. First .Nat.Bk., 37 N. Y
523, Booth v Clark, 17 How 322, Unqmted States v Bvford,
3 Pet. 12, 31, 32, Exparte Bradstreet,7 Pet. 634, 647, Chsrac
v Renzcker, 11 Wheat. 280, .302.
In No. 51 they cited Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616,
621, Balance v. Forsyth, 24 How 183, Zee v Lancashnre
&c. Railway, 6 Ch. Ap. 527, Fuller v. Cadwell, 6 Allen, 503,
Anthony v Valentine, 130 Mass. 119, JlcElmoyle v Cohen,
13 Pet. 326, .ills v Duryea, 7 0ranch, 481, United States
v. Throckmcton, 98 U. S. 61, 65, 66, Wli'te v Crow, 110 U.
S. 183, 189, Cooper v Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, 316, 317, Cornett v. Williams, 20 Wall. 308, 316, 317, Bateman. v Willoe,
1 Soh. & Lef. 201, 204, 205, 206, Castrtque v Imrze, L. R. I
H. L.414, Godard v Gray, L. R. 6 Q. B. 139.
In No. 52 they cited Peck v. Jenness, 7 How 612, 625,
Cooper v Reynolds, 10 Wall. 316, Jesup v Hill, 7 Paige, 95,
Griswold, Petitioner,13 R. I. 125.

MR. JUSTiCE HARLAN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Opinion of the Court.

These four cases are so closely connected in their facts, as
well as in the questions of law presented for determination.
that it is convenient to dispose of them by one -opinion.
Our attention will be directed first to case No. 50, in which
a decree is sought to cancel, or in the alternative, to reform
the bond of August 21, 1868, executed by Durant as principal, and by Griswold and Bradford as sureties, and to restrain
the defendants from suing upon it in its present form. The
granting or refusing of such a decree depends,, of course, upon
the inquiry whether the plaintiff Griswold has, by evidence
suffieiently clear and convincing, manifested his right to the
relief asked.
While in respect to some matters there is a conflict among
the witnesses, certain facts and circumstances are clearly established, and may be summarized as follows Durant, in August,
1868, was a citizen and resident of New York. He went to
Newport for a brief stay, and was there on the morning of
Saturday, August 22. About noon of that day the suit, in
which the writ of ne exeat issued, was commenced against him.
He was then sailing, with several friends, in his yacht on the
high seas. The yacht landed at the Newport wharf shortly
before eleven o'clock at nigh. Upon his stepping ashore he
was notified by two officers, who had kept continuous watch
for him at the wharf during the afternoon, that they had a
writ for his arrest - meaning the ab 2 ve writ of ne exeat-and
that he must go to jail. He accompanied them to that place,
one of the counsel of Hazard, Mr. Peckham, following on foot
to the sheriff's office. Information of the arrest having been
communicated to Mr. H. W Gray, also a citizen of New York,
temporarily at Newport, that gentleman went to Griswold,
who was his uncle, and begged the latter to go to the jail and
become bail for Durant's appearance. Griswold had only a
slight acquaintance with Durant, never having met him until
the spring of 1868, and held no personal or business relations
of any kind with him. To oblige his nephew, who was Durant's
friend, and merely as an act of kindness and courtesy to. a
stranger (Griswold then resided in Newport), he acceded to
the request to become bail for Durant's appearance in court,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and for that purpose only went to the jail. Hazard learned,
a little before eleven o'clock, that Durant had been arrested as
he landed from his yacht, and that owing to the lateness of
the hour the sheriff had taken him directly to the jail instead
of his own office, "as had been previously arranged." He
went immediately to the lodgings of one of his attorneys, Mr.
Bradley, and caused hun to "go and see what could be done
to prevent Durant from remaining in jail over Sunday;" authorizing his attorney to use his name "for the purpose of
releasing said Durant from jail until Monday, it being regarded
as very doubtful whether Durant in the short time then remaining before Sunday would'be able to provide the necessary
bonds."
Shortly after Griswold, accompanied by Gray, reached the
jail, the two counsel of Hazard, namely, Bradley and Peckham, arrived there, and a few moments later Governor Van
Zandt came in obedience to a message from Duranb conveyed
by Bradford, to act as-his counsel. Hqzar it seems, did pot
accompany his counsel to the jail. It was now nearly twelve
o'clock. All who were at the jail agree that they-were there
only because of the-arrest of Durant under a writ commanding
the sheriff to take bail from him, in the sum of $53,735, that
he would not go or attempt to go into parts beyond the State
without the leave of the court, and, if such bail were not given,
to commit him to and keep him in jail until he gave bail of his
own accord, and, such security being taken, the officer was
required by the wilt to return a certificate thereof to the court.
There is no claim that any one present was ignorant of the
terms of the writ, or of the extent of the authority of tho officer charged with its execution. It is further.agreed by all thc
witnesses that there was a conversation at the jail between
the lawyers and Durant as.to what could be done in order to
effect the latter's release. But in this discussion or conversation Griswold took no part whatever. That much is distinctly
stated by Peckham, one of Hazard's attorneys who drew the
bond,,and supervised the execution of the writ of ne exeat, although he says that the sureties could not "help hearing, if
they paid any attention." It is equally beyond dispute that

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Opinion of the Court.

the object of Griswold's presence at the jail was well known
to Hazard's attorneys.
Just here arises the difference among the witnesses as .to
what took place at the jail. Detailing what occurred according to his recollection at that place, Peckham sacvs "When I
got to the jail I found there Judge Bradley, who had only
preceded me there by a minute or two, Mr. Durant, Charles
,C. Van Zandt, his counsel, Mr. Griswold, Dexter Bradford,
and a stranger, who was, I presume, Air. Gray Mr. Van Zandt
and Judge Bradley were already talking about the release of
Mr. Durant from custody Judge Bradley said 'That is a
simple matter. Let him give the bond called for by the writ.?
The nature of that bond was briefly explained. Mr. Durant
said that it was out of the question tor nmn to give it, that he
-ouldn't remain any longer in Rhode Island, that his presence
was absolutely demanded outside of the State, and forthwith,
and that he must leave here Monday morning. It was suggested that he might file his answer and apply for the dis.charge of the writ immediately, but he said, 'I know what
-proceedings in court are, and I can't remain here at all.' It
was then proposed that he should give a bond in the same
amount marked in the two writs in the two cases, conditioned to abide and perform whatever decrees the court might
make against. him ii those suits. 'The nature of these proposed bonds was freely, discussed by Judge Bradley, Mr. ran
Zandt, and Mr. Durant, .and the fact that they were bonds
which would hold the principal "andsureties liable to pay
7money in case Durant should not perform ainy decree made
by the court was commented on by Mr. Van Zandt a\d Mr.
Durant. During all this -interview Judge Bradley did d1l the
talking for the complainants, and Mr. Van Zandt a'd M.
Durant spoke about equally for their side." The same witness
states "MAr. Van Zandt having conferred with Mr. 'Durant,
and those two having conferred with the suretes-I mean
Mr. Griswold and Mr. Bradford - A4. Van Zandt then announced that they would give the bonds proposed. As it was
then very late, it was further agreed that all should meet atmy office on the following Monday morning, soon after mid-:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

night, and execute the papers. Besides these bonds, it wass
also agreed that'the respective counsel should sign an agreement that upon the bonds being executed the writs of ne exeat
should be absolutely discharged. Just at the close of the
interview Judge Bradley addressed himself to all present,
saying that he wished to make sure that all understood the
arrangement alike, and he stated that Mr. Durant was to give
bonds, with Mr. Griswold and Mr. Bradford as sureties, in the
sums marked in the writs, to abide and perform all the decrees.
of the court in the suit, that counsel should sign agreements.
for the discharge of the writs, that all should meet at my office soon after midnight Monday morning and sign the papers,
that in the meantime Mr. Durant would go free from custody
opon his word of honor, and he appealed to the sureties, sayt g 'We rely upon you, gentlemen, to see that he attends.'
We then separated. I prepared the papers and had them
lying upon my table when we met, pursuant to the arrangement. They were read. t Mr. Griswold took an active part.
at this meeting and, I think, read the papers for himself.
The papers were signed without any objection or discussion at
that time. Probably we were not together at my office more
than ten minutes." Referring to the interview at the jail,
Bradley testified that nothing was said, to the best of his recollection and belief, by any one, conveying the idea that the.
complainants were to obtain from thq defendant only a bail
bond for his appearance, and that "the terms of the bond
were-expressed, so as to exclude the idea that it was merely
a bail for appearance,, and to provide that it should be a bond
to abide and perform the order of the court." He further said
that. the bond "was to be a security," and it was so announced. In all material respects his evidence was in accord
with the recollection of Peckham.
Eat there was other evidence which precludes our accepting
the version of the affair given by 'those gentlemen. Gray,
Griswold, Durant and Van Zandt, with more or less distinctness, but all emphatically, state that neither at the jail Saturday night, nor at the meeting before daylight on Monday
morning, was there a hint, suggestion or proposition, in any

GRISWOLD v. HTAZARD.
Opinon of the Court.

form, that Durant should give bond, with sureties, condit:qoned
that he would abide and perform the decrees that might be
rendered in the Hazard suit, or that any bond was talked of

except one that would make the sureties responsible simply
for his appearance in the State, so as to be subject to the
orders and process of the court. Gov Van Zandt testifies,
touching the meeting at the jail.. "It was" proposed by Judge
Bradley that Dr. Durant should give bond, with two sureties,
Which should be substituted for th0 writ and-the writ withdrawn. I then understood from the conversation that the
bond was in the nature of a bail bond, and that when the
sureties delivered Dr. Durant into the custody of the court, to
either perform its orders and decrees personally, or to suffer
such penalties personally as the court might impose, they
would comply with the conditions of the bond. Nothing was
said in my presence by any person inconsistent with these
views." -Agiin, referring to what took place at the time the
bond-was actually signed, the same witness says "A bond,
prepared by MNessrs. Peckham and Bradley, was handed to me
as counsel for Mr. Dlurant, there was some little discussion as
to whether it should be made to the sheriff of Newport
County, or to the complainants in the then suit: Judge Bradley preferred the latter, and it was so done. I told Mr. Durant
that, in my opinion, it -was a proper:bond to secure his appearance in the suit, and the -bond was then executed.
I
heard nothing said by Judge Bradley or Mr. Peckhar , except
what I have already stated. I myself told Mr. Durant that,
in my opinion, the instrument was, in effect, a bail bond."
Further " There was nothing said or intimated by any person
in my presence or hearing on that occasion to indicate that
the bond was a security instead of a surety " The statements
of Gov Van Zandt are fully sustained by the depositions of
Gray, Griswold and Durant.
In view of this great preponderance of evidence upon theside of the plaintiff, as to what occurred at the jail before
the separation of the parties to meet Mbnday morning for
the consummation of the business, the court is not at libefty
to accept the account given by the defendants' attorneys of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the interview of Saturday night. And we have a strong conviction that th6 recollection of Griswold, Gray, Durant and
Van Zandt, as to that interview, is sustained by all the inherent probabilities of the case. And in saying this, we
would not be understood as reflecting upon the integrity of
Hazard's attorneys. The difference in the recollection of
gentlemen, in respect to transactions in which they took part,
often happens, without any reason to suspect that any of them
would intentionally deviate from the line of absolute truth.
Such differences existing, the court can only be guided by the
weight of the evidence, where the witnesses are intelligent, of
equal credibility, and had.equal opportunities to know what
occurred. In the first place, it is not at all probable that
Griswold would have executed the bond in question, as surety,
if he had been informed, or believed, that it bound him absolutely, within the amount specified in such bond, for the
payment of any sum adjudged against Durant-almost an
entire stranger to him. In the next place, we cannot suppose
that the counsel who went to the jail, to represent the interests
of Hazard, had any other purpose in going there except.to see
that that was, substantially, accomplished which the writ of
ne exeat authorized, namely, the obtaining of bail that would
prevent Durant's departure from the State without the leave
of the court, and thus have him, at all times, pending Hazard's
suit, subject to its rightful power in respect to any decree
to be rrndered. That was evidently Bradley's purpose, for,
according to Peckham's evidence, he suggested that Durant
could effect his releasQ by executing the bond specified in the
writ. But when the nature of such a bond was explained,
and it appeared that the necessity for Durant's being out of
the State on Monday rendered that course entirely impracticable, the latter was then informed - according to the evidence of Peckham - tht he -could file an answer -and apply
for the discharge of'the rit immediately What was meant
by this suggestion? It could 'have meant but one thing,
pamely, that it was in the power of Durant to obtain, without
objection, if not of right, a discharge of the writ, after answering, by executing a bond of some kind. A party arrested

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Opinion of the Court.

upon ne exeat may obtain the discharge of the writ, upon
motion or petition, and after notice, and according to some
authorities, "it is a matter of course to order the ne exeat to
he discharged, upon the defendant's giving security to answer
the complainant's bill, and to render himself amenablVe to the
process of the court pending the litigation, and to such process
as may be issued to compel a performance of the final decree.
Or, where the defendant cannot procure such security
as will satisfy the sheriff, or if he wishes to leave the State
before the termination of. the suit, he may apply to the court
to discharge the ne exeat upon his giving proper security to
answer and be amenable to process. And upon such application, the court will take such security as it may deem sufficient,
and will discharge the sheriff from liability" 2 Barb. Pr.
,655-6, .AXitchell v Bunch, 2-Paige, 606, 621, Brayton v. Smith,
6 Paige, 489, 491, f-cNamara v. Dwyer, 7 Paige, 239, 244.
See, also, Jacob's Law Diet. Title, ne exeat regno, Johnson
v. Olendentn, 5 G. & J 463, 481. In Grswold, Petitzoner,
13 R.. I. 126, determined September 20, 1880, Griswold, by
petition, sought to be discharged from the bond in question
on his principal's placing himself within the jurisdiction of the
-court and subject to its orders and decrees. He seems to have
proceeded, in that case, upon the ground that he was entitled,
of right, to the order of discharge asked. But the Supreme
Court of Rhode Island did not accept that view, observing
that it could not regard "a bond to abide and perform the
decree as equivalen merely to a bond to abide the event of
the suit." To do so, thecourt said, would be to ignore wholly
the word "perform" contain(d in the bond, which, upon its
face, appeared to'be given by agfeement of the parties. While
it was there said, and properly, that the court may require as
a condition of the discharge of a writ ne exeat, that the respqrndent give security to'perform the decree - citing Robertson v
Wikze, Amb. 17, and AtfNnson v. Leonard, 3 Bro. 0. C. 18
-'it
was conceded that "courts will generally dischargo a
writ of ne eeat upon the respondents' giving security to abide
the decree on the hearing of the suit." If Durant had reroamed m Newport and, upon filing his answer, had applied

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

for the discharge of the writ of ne exeat upon his giving bond
with security simply to abide the decree, and place himself,
when required, within the jurisdiction of the court, it is inconceivable that the state court would, under the circumstances, have denied his application. But it was further said
in that case - and this is quite significant in its bearing upon
another question to be presently adverted to - that "even if
the bond in question was to be considered as having no other
effect than a bond to abide the decree made upon hearing the
cause, the petition could not be granted in the present stage
of the proceedings. No final decree in the cause has yet
been reached."
As, therefore, Durant could have filed his answer,.and, conformably to the general rule, have obtained a discharge of the
writ upon giving bond, with surety, that he would be amenable to the orders and process of the court, as he could not,
consistently with his engagements, remain in Rhode Island long
enough to have an answer prepared, and to move for the discharge of the writ, upon sufficient bond to be by him given,
and as Hazard and his counsel expressed a desire that Durant,
should not be held in custody over Sunday, what more natural
and equitable than that the parties should, by consent, bring
about that which Durant must have understood from Bradlev
that he could accomplish, through the orders of the court,
namely, have a bond executed with surety compelling his
presence in the State when required by the orders of the
court, or subjecting his sureties to personal liability if he did
not render himself amenable to its process. If the suggestion that Durant could file his answer and apply to the court
for the disQharge of .the writ (of course, upon bond securing
his amenability to the process of the court) had been adopted,
the plaintiff would not have obtained a bond making the
surety absotutely responsible, within the penal sum named in
the writ and bond, for a money decree against Durant. It is,
therefore, unreasonable to suppose that the parties separated
Saturday night under an agreement that Hazard should have
from Durant a bond that would subject his sureties to a lar-er
responsibility than was involved in the suggestion made that

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Opinion of the Court.

Durant could obtain an order of court for the disc'harge of the
writ. On the contrary, it is more reasonable to suppose that
the bond which, on Saturday night, was agreed to be executed
on the next Monday morning, was one that would accomplish,
by agreement of parties, precisely what Hazard's attbrney
suggested that Durant might accomplish by an order of court.
The agreement of the parties was thus made to take the place
of an order of court, because Durant assured Hazard's attorneys that he could not remain in Newport long enough to
make a formal application for the discharge of the writ upon
a proper bond.
We are of the opinion that, although the condition of the
bond in question was that Durant should "abide and perform
the orders, and decrees" of the court in tne suit in which it
was given, all the parties, according to the decided preponderance of evidence, intended it, at the time, as an instrument
binding the sureties for the appearance of the principal so
as to be amenable to the process and decrees of the court,
upon default in which, and not before, were they to be liable
to pay the penalty If the bond means, in law, more than
that - and counsel in this court agree that it does - the case
is one of a mutual mistake, clearly established- as to the legal
effect of the instrument. There was no nnstake as to the
mere words of the bond, for it was drawn by one of Hazard's
attorneys, and was read by Griswold before signing it. But,
according to the great weight of the evidence, there was a_
mistake, on both sides, as to the legal import of the terms employed to give effect to the mutual agreement. In short, the
instrument does not express the thought and intention whibh
the parties had at the time of its execution. And this mistake was attended by circumstances that render it inequitable
for the obligees in the bond to take advantage of it. The instrument was drawn by one of Hazard's attorneys, and was
presented and accepted as embodying the agreement previously reached. Griswold was unskilled in the law, and took
the word "perform" as implying performance in the sense of
Durant's becoming amenable to the process of the court. He
had no reason - uiless the recollection of Gray, Durant, Van

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Zandt and himself as to what occurred is wholly at fault -to
doubt that the bond expressed the real agreement, especially
if he heard Van Zandt's statement to Durant, when the latter
was about to sign the bond, that it "was, in effect, a bail
bond." A court of equity ought not to allow that mistake,
satisfactorily established and thus caused, to stand uncorrected,
and thereby subject a surety to liability he did not intend to
assume, and which, according to the decided preponderance of
the evidence, there was at the time no purpose to impose upon
him. While it is laid down that "a mere mistake of law,
stripped of all other circumstances, constitutes no ground for
the reformation of written contracts," yet "the rule that an
admitted or clearly established misapprehension of the law
does create a basis for the interference of courts of equity,
resting on discretion and to be exercised only in the most
unquestionable and flagrant cases, is certainly more in consonance with the best-considered and best-reasoned cases upon
this point, both English and American." Snell v Insui-ance
Co., 98 U. S. 85, 90, 92, 1 Story Eq. Jur. § 138 e andf, Redf.
ed., Stockbrzdge iron Co. v H'udson. Zron, Co., 102 -Mass. 45,
48, Underwood v. Brockman, 4 Dana, 309, 316, Jones v
Cli7ord, 3 Oh. D. 779, 791, 792, Canedy v. 71Trcy, 15 Gray,
.373, 377, Green v _Morris & -Essex Railroad Co., I Beasley,
165, 170, Beardsley v rnXght, 10 Vermont, 185, 190, State
v. Paup,13 Arkansas, 129, 2 Leading Cases in Eq. pt. 1, 979
to 984, 2 Pomeroy's Eq. §§ 843 to 847.
The conclusion reached upon this branch of the case is the
only one consistent with fair dealing towards those who were
willing to become sureties for the appearance of Durant. If
it be not justified upon the ground of mistake as to the mutual
agreement, superinduced by the conduct of the party seeking
now to take advantage of it, there could be no escape from
the conclusion that-the taking of a bond that made Griswold
absolutely liable as surety, for any amount adjudged to be due
from Durant, and not greater than the penal sum named, was,
under all the circumstances disclosed, a fraud in law upon him.
If the attorneys of Hazard intended to obtain, by means of a
bond, more than he was entitled to by such a, bond as the writ

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Opinon of the Court.

of ne exeat called for, and more than the court would ordinarily have given them, upon Durant's application to discharge the writ, if they intended to secure a bond that would
make Griswold personally liable, within the penal sum, for
any money decree passed against Durant, then a fraud was
perpetrated upon him, which entitles him to relief, for, according to the decided preponderance of the evidence, it must
be assumed that Hazard's attorneys knew that he signed the
bond in the belief that. pursuant to the previous understanding, it was one to secure Durant's appearance, nothing more,
and yet they failed to inform him, at the time, that it was
drawn so as to impose upon him a much larger responsibility
Their silence upon that question was, under the orrcumstances,
equivalent to a direct affirmation that the bond ineant what
Griswold supposed it did. In view of what passed at the jail
on Saturday night, their duty was, by sufficient explanation,
to correct the misapprehension under which he evidently
labored. Besides, there can be no doubt, under the evidence,
that the agreement to discharge the writ was reached without
consultation with Griswold. No one of the witnesses states
that he was consulted about that matter, or that he was informed as to the legal result of an agreement or ordet to discharge the writ. He testifies that he knew nothing of any
such agreement. So, that, while Hazard's attorney, according
to his evidence, was preparing a bond that would bind Griswold'absolutely to pay any decree, not in excess of $53,735,
that might be rendered against one who was almost a stranger
to him, and who, Hazard stated in his bill, was then engaq;ed
in hazardous speculations and was in a precarious condition
pecuniarily, he was, as the representative of Hazard, under an
agreement with Durant, of which Griswold had no knowledge,
that the writ of ne exeat should be discharged, thus compelling
the surety to risk the insolvency of the principal, and putting it out of his power, for his own protdotion, to surrender
the principal, and obtain the cancellation of the bond, as, in
that case, the surety might have done, if the bond had been,
as he supposed it was, one simply for the appearance of
Durant. The concealment of this agreement from GriswQld

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

was, under the circumstances, a wrong to him. "The contract
of suretvship," says Mr. Story, "imports entire good faith and

confidence between the parties in regard to the whole transaction. Any concealment of material, facts, or any express or
implied misrepresentation of such facts, or any undue advantage taken of the surety by the creditor, either by surprise or
by withholding proper information, will undoubtedly furnish
a sufficient ground to invalidate the contract." Again "If a
party taking a guaranty from a surety, conceals from him facts
which go to increase his risk and suffers him to enter into the
contract undet false impressions, as to the real state of the
facts, such a concealment will amount to a fraud, because
the party is bound to make the disclosure." 1 Story's Eq.
Jurs . §§ 324, 215. To the same effect are Franklin Bank v
Cooper, 36 Maine, 180, 196, Smith v. Bank of Scotland, 1
Dow 272, 292, 1?ailton v. iathews, 10 Cl. & F 935, 943,
Small v Currie, 2 Drewry, 102, 114, Phillips v Foxall, L. R.
I Q. B. 666, 672, P'dcock v Btshop, 3 B: & C. 6.05, Adams'
Equity, § 179. But we do not rest our decision upon any
ground of fraud in law or fraud in fact. We acquit the attorneys of Hazard of any desire or purpose to do injustice to
Griswold, or to commit a fraud upon him. But we are constrained, by the .settled rules of evidence, to hold, as already
indicated, that their recollection of the circumstances under
which. the bond of August 24: was executed is materially at
fault, and that the alleged mistake is established by convincing
proof.
But it is said that Griswold was guilty of such ]aches in
seeking the relief now asked, that he is not entitled to the aid
of a court ii'equity. This position is based principally upon
what Peckham says occurred between him and Griswold in
the fall of the year after the execution of the bond. Peckham testifies "About the last of October or the 1st of November, 1868, along that time, I met Mr. Griswold on Thames
Street, in Newport, near my office. He spoke of this bond as
if it were a bail bond. I said, ' No, it is a bond upon which
you may be liable to pay money If, for example, the court
should findca judgment against Durant for any sum of money

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.

-2,87

Opinion of the Court.

and he did not ,pay it, you could be held for the amount named
in these bonds.' He said, ' Well, I guess you are right, but I
must see Durant about it. He must do something about it.'
1 asked him, 'Why, he is rich enough, isn't he?' and Mr.
Griswold said, ' Yes; he is rich enough, but he is reckless, and
there is no telling how long such a man may stay rich, and he
mnust -give me security ' I would like to add here that I mentioned this to Mr. Honey last winter. Mr. Honey said that
he was confident, from conversations he had had with his
client, Mr. Griswold, that Mr. Griswold had no recollection of
any such conversation with me, and I replied that if Mr. Griswold did not recollect it I should hesitate about swearing to
it, and that I did not think I would swear to it under those
,circumstances, and that certainly I would not like to do so.
,Still I have felt bound to state it here, upon further reflection
-with these explanations." If this be a correct statement of
-what passed between Peckham and Griswold, upon the occasion referred to, it is significant as showing that months
after the bond was executed Griswold spoke of it as a bail
bond. His declaration, after Peckham's explanation of its
terms, "I guess you are right," naturally meant no more than
a courteous acquiescence, without discussion, in the opinion
expressed, by one learned in the law Griswold, while recalling the fact that he expressed to Peckham his belief that it
was a bail bond, denies explicitly that he, on that or any other
occagron, ever admitted that it was other than a bail bond.
Besides, there was no absolute necessity for Griswold's moving in the matter until after some decree was passed against
Durant, and until an attempt was made to hold him personally responsible for the amount of the bond. He made an
effort in G nswo7d, Petitioner,13 R. I. 125, to be dischargd
from his bond upon the principal's placing himself, within the
jurisdiction of the court. But, as we have seen, the court,
after declining to discharge the bond, said, that even if the
bond in question was to I. considered as having no other effect
than a bond to abide the decree made upon hearing the cause,
the petition for its discharge would not be considered by it
•until a final decree was passed. The judgment in that case

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

was passed September 30, 1880. Notwithstanding this announcement, and doubtless because of the intimation that the
bond meant more in law than he supposed, Griswold commenced the present suit more than a year before the decree was,
rendered agatnst Durant, and before the actson at law wa&
brought on the bond. Under the peculiar circumstances of this
case we think the defense of laches is without substantial
merit. Whether laches is to be imputed to a party seeking
the aid of a court of equity depends upon the circumstances
of the particular case. There are no circumstances here that
would justify a refusal to grant the relief asked because of
Griswold's delay m instituting suit to have the bond cancelled
or reformed.
In the view the court takes of this case, the proper decree to
make, if Durant were living, would be one reforming the bond
of August 24, 1868, so as to make Griswold liable for the
penal sum named only in the event that the principal failed
to appear and become subject to the orders and decrees of the
court in the suit in which the writ of ne exeat was issued. But
such a decree would not now be appropriate. Under the circumstances, the only decree that will accomplish the ends of
substantial justice is one perpetually enjoining the prosecution
of. any action, suit or proceeding to make him liable in any
sum on or by reason of said bond.
We come now to the action at law, No. 53, in which there
was aq]udgment against Griswold on the bond of August 24,
1868, for the sum of $66,470. It is assigned for error that the
court sustained the demurrers to the original second, thircl,
fourth and fifth pleas, ordered the amended third, fourth and
fifth pleas to be stricken from the files, and denied the defendant's motions, at the trial, for judgment on his eighth and
ninth pleas. It has -been assumed in argument that the
record in this case substantially presents among other questions, the following" 1. Whether the bond of August 24, 1868,
was not obtained by such fraud and concealment as rendered
it void as against Griswold ? 2. Whether upon the face of
the record of thd equity suit in which the order or decree of
December 2, 1882, was rendered, the court was not without

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of the subject matter of that suit, the essential
object of which, it is argued, was to administer the affairs,
and distribute the assets, of a Pennsylvania corporation, by
means of decrees and orders of a court in Rhode Islandl 3.
Whether simple duress operating only on the principal in the
bond could be taken advantage of by the surety2 4. Whether
the plaintiffs, notwithstanding the stipulation of Griswold's
counsel, at the trial, that they were able to prove, under the
decree of December 2, 1882, "an amount of damage in excess
of the penal sum of the bond declared on," could maintain an
action on the bond for that or any other sum, until it was
ascertained and adjudged in Hazard's equity suit what distinct
part, if any, of the $16,071,659.97 for which Durant was adjudged by the Supreme Court of Rhode Island to be accountable to the Credit Mobilier of America, actually belonged, or
would be ultimately awarded, to the obligees in the bol ?
These questions have been argued by the counsel of the
respective parties with signal ability, and their importance is
recognized. But in view of the present condition of the
record of this case, it is not deemed best now to discuss them.
The ground upon which the court below ordered the amended
pleas to be stricken from the files does not appear. It may
be that the motion was treated as a formal demurrer (Sloeomb
v. Powers, 10 R. I. 255), or was granted, because, in the judgment of the court, the amended pleas did not materially
change the defence as presented in the pleas to which special
demurrers were sustained, and were not, therefore, fairly embraced by the stipulation made by counsel for their being filed.
But, in our judgment, the amended pleas were much broader,
as well as more specific in their averments, than were the
original pleas, and the questions arising upon them could
have been more appropriately raised by demurrer. Smit
v CarroZ, 17 R. I. July 19, 1890. We are more willing to
make this disposition of the case, because of the decision in
case No. 50 in respect to Griswold's liability upon the bond
sued on. In view of what has been there said, the discussion
of the above questions would seem to be unnecessary
The-demurrer to the bill in No. 51 was properly sustained.
VOL. CXLI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

The error, if any, committed by the Supreme Court of Rhode
Island in not allowing the release, executed to Durant by the
receiver in the Pennsylvania court of the Credit Mobilier of
America, to be interposed as a defence in the suit brought by
Hazard against Durant and others, could not be corrected by
bill in equity,.il1ed by a surety on the bond of August 241,
for the reason, if there were no other, that the release was
delivered prior to the judgment in the state court constituting
the basis of the action at law on the bond.
The demurrer to the bill in case No. 52 was also properly
sustained. In that case the validity of the proceedings in the
Supreme Court of Rhode Island, by Hazard against Durant
and others, was assailed upon the ground that the bill in that
suit did not sufficiently show that any effort had been made
by Hazard, the plaintiff therein,. and who sued as stockholder,
to procure corporate action against Durant by the Credit
Mfobilier of America. It is only necessary to say that this
ground presents only a question of mere error in the judgment
of the state court, and does not affect its jurisdiction.
The decree in suit No. 50 must be reversed, with directions
to enter a new decree perpetually enjoining the defendants
therein, and each of them,from prosecutingany suit, action
or proceeding, against Griswold on the bond executed by
him on the 24th of August, 1868, as one of the sureties of
Thomas C. Durant, the decrees in 'cases NAos. 51 and 52
must be affirmed, and the judgment in the action at duw,
_.ZVo. 53, must be reversed with directionsfor further proceedings not inconnstent with this omnion. Griswold is
entitled to his costs in this court in cases 50 and 53, and the
apjellees in the other cases are entitled to their costs here
as against Griswold. It ws so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE

BRnww, dissenting, in No. 50.

I should have no hesitation in announcing my concurrence
in the opinion of the court in this case, did it not seem to me to
involve a disturbance of legal prmciple which I had supposed
to be well settled and confirmed by repeated decisions of this
court.

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, I"

To entitle the plaintiff to a decree, he is bound to show,
either nstake or fraud. I think he has failed to show either.
There was nothing unprecedented - scarcely anything which
could be called unusual -in the character of the obligation he
assumed. The bond was such an one as is proper to be given
to obtain the discharge of a defendant held upon a writ of ne
exeat. In treating of this remedy, it is said in Daniell's Chancery Practice, that, "by the terms of the writ, the sheriff is to
cause the party, personally, to come before him, and give sufficient bail or security in the sum indorsed on the writ, that he
will not go, or attempt to go into parts beyond the seas, without leave of the court, and on his refusal, he is to commit him
to the next prison." It is also said that, "the court will discharge the writ upon merits, whenever it appears, by the cir
cumstances of the case, as disclosed by the affidavits upon
which it was granted and the answer of the defendant, either
that the plaintiff has no case, or that the defendant is not going out of the jurisdiction, and this it will do either absolutely
or conditionally that is, upon the defendant's giving security to
abide and perform the decree of the court." 3d. Am. ed. 1814,
1817, 5th Am. ed. 1710, 1713, with-some verbal changes,
Rowclen v Rogers, 1 Yes. & Beames, 129, Atknson v .eonard,3 Bro. 0. 0. 218, Roddara v Hethertngton, 5 Ves. 91,
Parker v Parker, 12 N. J. Eq. (Beasley) 105, AfcDonough,
v. Gaynor, 18 N. J. Eq. (3 0. E. Green) 249.
In New York, it seems also to be the proper practice to discharge the writ upon the defendant's giving security to answer the plaintiff's bill, and to render himself amenable to tho
process of the court pending the litigation. 3fitchell.v Bunch,
2 Paige, 606, Mc.Namaralv .Dwyer, 7 Paige, 239.
The writ in this case required Durant to give sufficient bail
or security, in the sum of $53,735, "that he, the said Thomas
C. Durant, will not go, or attempt to go, into parts beyond
this State, without the leave of our said court." Durant was
unwilling to give this security, because, as he said, it was
imperatively necessary for him to leave the State and be in
New York on the next Monday It was, therefore, stipulated
between his solicitor and that of the plaintiff, Hazard, that he

OCTOBER TERMI,

1890.

Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

should file a bond, with surety in the penalty marked in the
writ of ne exeat, "to abide and perform the orders and decrees
of the court in said cause," and thereupon the writ of ne exeat
should be discharged. These are the exact terms of the bond
that was prepared and signed by the plaintiff. There is sone
conflict as to Nhat took place upon the interview on Saturday
night, at which it was agreed that the bond should be given.
Plaintiff's witnesses assert that it was understood that a bond
was to be given for his appearance before the couits when
wanted. Upon the other hand, defendants' witnesses, Judge
Bradley and Mr. Peckham, who, although outnumbered by the
plaintiff's witnesses, were men of the highest character, members of the legal profession, and understanding thoroughly
what they were-about, swore that the nature of the proposed
bond was freely discussed by Judge Bradley, Mr. Van Zandt,
and Mr. Durant, and the fact that they were bonds which
would hold the principal and sureties liable to pay money in
case Durant should not perform any decree made by the court,
was commented upon by them, Judge Bradley speaking for
the defendants, and Mr. Van Zandt and Mr. Durant for
themselves. The sureties were present, although it is not
claimed that they took part in the discussion. I do not care,
however, to attempt to reconcile this testimony, or to determine exactly where the truth lies. Griswold himself admits
that, when the bond was prepared and submitted for his signature, he read it, and noticed the terms "abide by and per.form the decrees of the court," but, in the absence of any
explanation, he inferred that it meant that Durant should
appear and render himself subject to the processes of court.
He does not complain that its contents or its legal effect were
misstated to him, or that Judge Bradley or Mr. Peckham, whc
represented the plaintiff in the suit, misled him -by any falsE
representations as to -its tenor or purport. He apparently re
framed from asking any explanation of its meaning, b ,t assumed himself to construe it, and gave it a different meaning
from that which the law gave it. This, it seems to me, is a
mistake of law, against which equity will give no relief. Grzswold, Petitioner,13 R. I. 125, .Hunt v Rousmansere, 1 Pet.

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

1, 15, United States v. Ames, 99 U. S. 35, 46, Hart v Eart,
18 Oh. D. 670, Snell v Insurance Co., 98 U. S. 85, 2 Pomeroy
Equity Juris. sec. 843.
In Powell v. Smith, L. R. 14 Eq. 85, 90, the defendant endeavored to defeat the enforcemefit of an agreement to give a
lease upon the ground that he was mistaken as to the legal
meaning and effect of an important provision. The Master of
Rolls !n overruling the defence, said. "All those cases which
have been cited during the argument are cases where there
was either a dispute and doubt as to the thing sold, or where
the words of the agreement expressed certain things in an ambiguous manner, which might be misunderstood by one of the
parties. In all those cases the court has held that it must
look at the evidence and that if the mistake is sufficiently
proved the court will then set aside the agreement. But here
the words of the agreement are quite certain, and the only
thing that was not understood was the legal effect of certain
words which it contained. Now, that is no ground of mistake
at all. It is a question upon the construction of an agreement
agreed to by everybody concerned."
In Eaton v Bennett, 34 Beav 196, a marriage settlement
was drawn, as the intended husband alleged, in a manner con"trary to the agreement, but before the marriage he knew its
contents and executed it under protest, and reserved his right
to set it aside. It was held that he could not, after the marriage, sustain a suit to rectify the settlement. The Master of
Rolls observed that "the court, in such cases as these, only
rectifies a settlement when both parties have executed it under
a mistake, and have done what they neither of them'intended.
Here the plaintiff examined the draft and the settlement prior
to its execution, and was perfectly aware of its 'purport. I
think that he cannot set it aside or alter it in this court."
Ih(leed, it is a doctrine familiar to this court, that in order to
set aside an instrument for mistake it must appear that the
mistake was mutual, and that one party is desirous of taking
advantage of an error into which he himself in common with
the other party has fallen. Hlearne v ifarmne Ins. Co., 20 Wall.
488, 490 Stockbridae Iron Co. v. Hudson Iron Co., 102 Mass.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

45, 48, Sawyer v iovey, 3 Allen, 321, German-Amerwan
Ins. Co. v. Davw, 131 Mass. 316.
In view of the stipulation that was entered into between the
solicitors for the respective parties to this suit, I do not see
how it can be claimed that there was any mistake upon the
part of BradleFy or Peckham as to the purport of the bond,
and as before bbserved, unless they were parties to such mistake, there is no eqriity in reforming the instrument upon that
ground. In addition to this the evidence must be such as to
leave no reasonable doubt in the mind of the court as to the
existence of such mistake, and in my view, without discussing
it at length, the testimony in this case falls far short of the
requisite certainty
Again, it seems to me that the defence of laches is complete in this case. This bond was executed in August, 1868.
It is shown that, as early as October or.November of the same
year, in a conversation between Mr. Peckham and the plaintiff in :Newport, the character of this bond, as being distinct
from a mere bail bond, was called to Mr. Griswold's attention
by Mr. Peckham, who told him it was a bond upon which he
might be liable to pay money In Mr. Peckham's own words,
he said. "If, for example, the court should find a judgment
against Durant for any sum of money and he did not pay it,
you could be held for the amount named in these bonds. He
said, ' Well, I guess you are right, but I must see Durant about
it. He must do something about it.' I asked him, Why, he
is rich enough, isn't he? And Mr. Griswold said, 'Yes, he is
rich enough, but he is reckless, and there is no telling how
long such a man may stay rich, and he must give me security "'
It appears then from this testimony, which is practically uncontradicted, that within three months after the bond was given,
the plaintiff was distinctly apprised that it was a bond for the
payment of money He appears to have done nothing about
it, however, for twelve years, when he filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of IRhode Island asking permission to surrender
Durant into the custody of the court and be relieved from the
bond - a petition which the court refused to grant. In this
petition there was "no suggestion of any fraud, imposition, or

GRISWOLD v. HAZARD.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

unfairness in obtaining it, practised by the complainants on the
defendant or his sureties." Grswold, Petitioner,13 R. I. 125,
126.
It was not until after this petition had been denied, and an
opinion intimated that he might be bound to pay the penalty
of the bond in the event of a decree against Durant, that he
filed this bill, and for the first time set up that he had been
imposed upon in the execution of the bond. In the meantime
Durant has died and Hazard has lost whatever advantagehe
might have had in the surrender of his body in compliance
with the bond which plaintiff says&he understood was to be
given in discharge of the writ.
I cannot avoid the impression that the present defence is an
afterthought. In any view of the case, I think the plaintiff
failed to exercise that decree of diligence which this court said
in Gi/mes v Sanders, 93 U. S. 55, was necessary to entitle a
party to rescind upon the ground of mistake or fraud.
I think the decree of the court below is right and should be
affirmed.
M-n. JUsTcE BRADLEY and Mn. JusTion BnEwEn did not particiate in the decision of this case.

