HICKMAN v. FORT SCOTT.
Syllabus.

party whose default occasions the necessity for the expenditure." Again "Upon the question whether contracts of this
nature are void as against public policy, this court as well as
those of other States is also fully committed.
The
Tight of the parties to thus contract has been expressly recogized, and when the contract has been for such reasonable
.attorney's fees only as would indemnify and preserve the
payee from loss, and was due at the tnme of suit brought, this
court has in every case sustained the plaintiff's right of recovery Nor do we see anything in the section of the statute
quoted that would change the rule." See also Clawson v
.3unson, 55 Illinois, 394, 3917, Haldeman v .fass. .utual Life
Ins. Co., 120 .Illinois, 390, 393, Teford v Garrels, 132 Illinols, 550, 555, XvclTntie v Yates, 104: Illinois, 491, 503.
The only question of any difficulty is whether the fee stipalated was not excessive. But as the character and extent of
the services performed by the plaintiff's attorney were best
known to the court below, and in the absence of any evidence
as to whether the fee was reasonable, considering the amount
involved, and the nature of the services rendered, we are not
prepared to reverse the decree because of the allowance to the
plaintiff of an attorney's fee which does not exceed the highest sum fixed in the deed of trust.
We find no error in the decree to the prejudice of the appellants, and it is
_________Aflrmed.

HICK[AN v. FORT SCOTT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF
No.10. Argued October 13, 1891.-

STATES

FOR

THE

KANSAS.
Decided October 26,1891.

An application by petition to a court of law, after its judgment has been
reversed and a different judgment directed to be entered, to so change
the record of the original judgment as to make a casematerially different
from that presented to the court of review,-there being no clerical
mistake, and nothing having been- omitted from the record of the ori,-i
inal action which the court intended to make a matter of record - was

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
properly denied. Such a case does not come within the rule that a
court, after the expiration of the term, may., by an order, nunc pro tuna,
amend the repord by inserting what had been omitted by the act, of the
clerk or of the court.

TH. court stated the case as follows:
Hickman brought suit, July 1, 1880, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Kansas, against the city
of Fort Scott, a municipal corporation of that State, to recover
the amount of twenty-seven bonds of $500 each, issued by that
city The action was tried by the court without a jury One
of the issues was whether the suit was barred by the Kansas
statute of limitations, declaring that an action on an agreement, contract or promise in writing could be brought within
five years after the cause of action accrued, and not afterwards, but providing that "in any case founded on contract,
when any part of the principal, or interest shall have been
paid, or an acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt
or claim, or any promise to pay the same, shall have been
made, an action may be brought in such case within the
period prescribed for the same, after such payment, acknowledgment or promise, but such acknowledgment or promise
must be in writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby" Gen. Stats. Kansas, c. 80, art. 3, pp. 633-4-5. That issue
depended upon the inquiry whether the city had made such an
acknowledgment of its liability on the bonds as took the case
out of the limitation of five years.
The court made a special finding of facts, and gave judgment in favor of Hickman for $26,385.23. Upon writ of error
to this court that judgment was reversed, November 3, 1884,
and the cause was remanded with direction to enter a judgment for the plaintiff on one bond, No. 78, for $500, with
proper interest, less a credit paid of $200, November 8, 1875,
and, in respect to all the other bonds in suit, to enter judgment for the city with costs. Fort Scott v Hiickman, 112
U. S. 150, 160, 165.
A petition for rehearing was filed in this court, asking a
reconsideration of its judgment to the extent, at least, of order-

HICKMAN v. FORT SCOTT.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

mg a ventre de novo or a reargument of the case. That petition was overruled.
On the 3d of February 1885, the present proceeding was
instituted by a petition filed in the court below by Hickman
gainst the city of Fort Scott. Its general object was to obtain
"a new trial on account of gross and vital errors in the finding
of facts," and also to have the record amended "by allowing
certain findings of fact to appear, some of which findings
were unavoidably and others accidentally omitted." The
petition, among other things, stated "It is desired only that
the record should be so amended as to state as well as import
the truth, and that the plaintiff should have an opportunity of
having the actual facts of the controversy taken into consideration by this court, and, if necessary, by the Supreme
Court before the matter finally passes in remjudieatam. The
decision of the Supreme Court was based upon an imperfect
and erroneous report of the cause, and all that the plaintiff
now desires to do isto have the record placed in such shape
that the truth may be judicially ascertained before final judgment against liim."
The petition set forth the particular facts which, it is alleged, do not sufficiently appear in the findings, and prayed
that the plaintiff might be allowed to make proof of them,
"and that the omissions and mistakes in the findings of fact
hereinbefore stated be supplied and corrected, to the end that
the record of said cause may be a true record before judgment
is entered in pursuance of said mandate, or, if such judgment
is first entered, then that such judgment may be opened and a
new trial ordered."
The mandate of this court was issued February 19, 1885, and
was filed in the court below A judgment in conformity with
it was entered by the Circuit Court on the 2d of March, 1885.
Subsequently, the application to amend the record, as prayed for
in the petition, was overruled, and an order to that effect was entered. From that order the present writ of error was prosecuted.
.A,' A. . Wintersteen for plaintiff in error. Afr Wayne
AtacVeagh was with him on the brief.
VOL. cXLi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr J D AoCleverty for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

In the ori-inal action upon the bonds held by Hickman, a
jury having been waived by written stipulation of the parties,
the Circuit Court proceeded to final judgment upon a special
finding of facts. The judgment was the one the court intended
to enter, and the facts found were those only which the court
intended to find. There is here no clerical mistake. Nothing
was omitted from the record of the original action which the
court intended to make a matter of record. The case, therefore, does not comne within the rule, that a court, after the expiration of the term, may, by an order nuncpro tunc, amend the
record by inserting what had been omitted by the act of the
clerk or of the court. In re Wight, Peit'toner,134 U. S. 136,
144, .Fot'lerv Eguttable Trust Co. (1), ante, 384, Galloway v
.fcleethen, 5 Iredell (Law), 12, .Hyde v Curling, 10 Missouri,
227. Nor is this a suit. in equity to set aside or vacate the
judgment upon any of the grounds on which courts of equity
interfere to prevent the enforcement of judgments at law It
is simply an appliatmon by petition to a court of law, after its
judgment has been reversed, and a different judgment directed
to be entered, to so change the record of the original judgment
as to make a case materially different from that presented to
the court of review
The application derives no strength
from the fact that it was by petition, and not by motion supported by affidavits.
We know of no precedent for such a proceeding as this, nor
is there any principle of law upon which it could be based. In
-Bronsonv Schulten, 104 U. S. 410, 415, the court, after adverting to the general rule that the judgments, decrees or other
orders of a court, however conclusive in their character, are
-under its control during the term at which they are rendered,
and may be set aside, vacated, modified or annulled by it, said
"It is a rule equally well established, that after the term has
ended all final judgments and decrees of the court pass beyond

McCLAIN v. ORTMAYER.
Syllabus.

its control, unless steps be taken during that term, by motion
or otherwise, to set aside, modify or correct them, and if errors
exist, they can only be corrected by such proceeding by a writ
of error or appeal as may be allowed in a court which, by law,
can review the decision. So strongly has this principle been
applied by this court that, while realizing that there is no court
which can review its decisions, it has invariably refused all
applications for rehearing made after the adjournment of the
court for the term at which the judgment was rendered. And
this is placed upon the ground that the case has passed beyond
the control of the court." The same principles had been announced in Sibbald v Urnted States, 12 Pet. 488, 492. The
exceptions to the general rule, such as suits in equity, and writs
of error coram, vobts at law, do not embrace the present application. See also Phillips v Negley, 117 U. S. 665, 674, 675,
Carneron v _Modoberts, 3 Wheat. 591, .M.ficken v Pern,18
How 507, 511.
Judgment afflrmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTIcE GRY did not hear the
argument, and took no part in the decision of this case.

McCLAIN v. ORTMAYER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 44. Argued October 20, 21,1891. -Decided

November 2, 1891.

If a patentee describes and claims only a part of his invention he is presumed to have abandoned the residue to the public.
Where a claim is fairly susceptible o two constructions, that one will be
adopted which will preserve to the patentee his actual invention, but
if the language of the specification and claim shows clearly what he
desired to secure as a monopoly, nothing can be held to be an infringe.
ment which does not fall within the terms which the patentee has hunself chosen to express his invention.
The first claim in letters patent No. 259,700, issued June 20, 1882, to Edward
L. MeClain for a pad for horse-collars, when construed in accordance
with these principles, is not infringed by the manufacture and sale of

