McNULTA v. LOCHRIDGE.
Statement of the Case.

adopted at the first session of Congress, after declaring that
the Supreme Court shouldhave appellate jurisdiction from the
Circuit Courts and courts of the several tStates,in certain cases,
provided that it should have power to issue writs of mandamus in cases, warranted by the principles and usages of law,
"to any courts appointed, or persons holding office, under the
authority of the United States." And the Revised Statutes
(ยง 688) reenacted this provision in a modified form, without
removing the limitation as to the courts to which and the
officers to, whom it may issue. If the applicant has any
remedy in this court for his alleged grievance,, upon which we
express no opinion, it must be sought in another way
Motion densed.
YM. JUSTICE GRAY was absent at the time of the submission
and decision of this case.

MoNULTA

.

LOCHIRIDGE.

ERROR TO THE SUPREMIE COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLIOIS.
No. 1324. Submitted October 13, 1891.-Decided October26, 1891.
Whether a person holding the office of receiver can be held responsible for
the acts of his predecessor in the same office is not a Federal question,
but a question of general law.
A receiver of a railroad, appointed by a Federal court, is not entitled under
the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, ยง 3, 24 Stat. 552, 554, to immunity from
suit for acts done by his predecessor, without previous permission given
by that court.
An-adverse judgment of a state court, upon the claun of a receiver appointed by a Federal court, of immunity from suit without leave of the
appointing court first obtained is subject to review in this court.
Actions will lie by and against a receiver for causes of action accruing
in office.
under his predecessor

THIns was a-motion to dismiss a writ of error, or affirm the
judgment of the court below upon the following state of
fact5..

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument against the Motion.

In July, 1687, Locbridge, the defendant m error, began two
suits in the Circuit Court of Christian County, Illinois, against
]cNulta, the plaintiff in error, as receiver of the Wabash, St.
Louis and Pacific Railway Company, to recover damages for
the death of James and Mary E. Molohon, alleged to have
been occasionel by the negligent management of an engine
at a public crossing. At the time the cause of action arose
Thomas M. Cooley was receiver of the road under an order
made by the Circuit Court of the United States foi the Southern District of Illinois, in a suit to foreclose a mortgage upon
the road. Judge Cooley having resigned his receivership,
plaintiff in error, John MeNulta, was appointed his successor,
and was in possession of and operating the road at the time
the suits were brought. Demurrers were interposed to the
declarations, and overruled, and the suits were subsequently
consolidated by agreement of parties, tried, and a verdict rendered in favor of the plaintiff for six thousand dollars. This
judgment was subsequently affirmed by the Appellate Court
of the Third District, and again by the Supreme Court of the
State. Defendant thereupon sued out this writ and assigned
as error, first, that the Supreme Court erred in holding that,
under the act of Congress above cited, the plaintiff was entitled to maintain the action, when it appeared from the record
that McNulta was not the receiver when the cause of action
accrued, and second, in holding that, under said act, -McNulta
could be sued as receiver with respect to any act or transaction which occurred before his appointment, without previous
leave of the court of the United States by which he was appointed. Defendant in error thereupon moved to dismiss up.on
the ground that no Federal question was involved.
X

James V Patton for the motion.

Hr George B. Bum'ett and .Af' Wells H. Blodg ft opposing.
The learned counsel. for defendant in error says that we
seem to take the view that the right to sue the receiver depends upon this act of Congress, but that in this respect we are

McNULTA v. LOCHRIDGE.
Opinion of the Court.

mistaken - that long before the existence of that statute it
was held that a receiver was liable in his official capacity for
injuries caused by the negligence of his employes, and that he
is amenable to the same rules of liability that apply to the
corporation of which he is receiver, while it was operating
the road.
Assuming this to be true, it was always an essential, prerequisite to the bringihg of a suit against a receiver, that leave
should first be obtained of the court appointing the receiver
to bring the action, as the authorities cited by counsel show
True, it may be said plaintiff in error was exempt from suit,
without leave of the court appointing him, before the passage
of the act of Congress, but while ttat act, as we contend,
permitted suits to be brought against a receiver without leave
of the court appointing him "respecting any act or transaction" of the receiver sued, it in terms preserved that immunity
from suit to a receiver whose "act or transaction" was not
the cause of the injury complained of, and the Supreme Court
of Illinois having construed the act of Congress, and -having
denied to plaintiff in error the immunity claimed under that
act, the correctness of that decision is a proper subject of
review in this court.
AIR. JusTIOE BRowN, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The substance of the first assignmentof error is that under
the act of March 3, 1887, plaintiff was not entitled to maintain a suit against Moulta, as receiver, for a cause. of action
-which accrued when the road was in possession of and operated by a former receiver. This is clearly not a Federal question, but a question of general law, viz. whether one person
holding the office of receiver can be held responsible for the
acts of his predecessor in the same office. The substance of
the second assignment is that the Supreme Court of Illinois
erred in holding that such suit could be maintained against
the present receiver for the acts of his predecessor without the
previous leave of the court appointing him.

830,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opirnon of the Court.

(1) Plaintiff in error relies in this connection upon the act of
Congress of March 3,1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, determining the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, which provides in section 3,
that "every receiver or manager of any property. appointed
by any court of the United States may be sued in respect of
any act or transaction of his in carrying on the business connected with such property, without the previous leave of the
court in which such receiver or manager was appointed." It
is difficult to see what right can be claimed by the receiver
under this act. The right he claims is immunity from suit
without the prior leave of the court appointing him, but this.
is a right, not given by the statute, but in obedience to a
general and familiar principle of law recognized by this court
in Damvzs v Gray, 16 Wall. 203, and Barton v. Barbour, 104
U. S. 126. The right conferred by the statute to sue without
the prior leave of the court, is not given to the defendant, but
to the plaintiff, and the only question which could properly
arise under the act in this case is, whether the receiver so sued
could be held liable for the acts of a prior receiver. The act
does not deprive any one of the right to sue where such right
previously existed, but gives such right in certain cases, and it
was for the court to say whether the plaintiff's cause of action
,fell within the statute, or .whether the defendant was entitled to the exemption given him by the general law Had
the.Supreme Court of Illinois decided that under this act the
defendant could not be sued without the prior leave of the
Federal court, the plaintiff might doubtless have obtained a
writ of error from this court upon the ground that he -had
been denied a right given him by a "statute" of-the "Tnited
States (Rev. Stat. ยง 709), but it does not follow that the other
party is entitled to the same remedy The case in this particular is analogous to that of .Missou v Andmano, 138 U. S.
496, decided. at the last term, in which we held that it was
only the party whose right under a statute had been denied
who was entitleQ to a writ of error to review the final judgment of the state court.
(2) But, while we think that plaintiff in error is not entitled
to inmunity by virtue of the statute of 1887, we are authorized

XbNULTA v. LOCHRIDGE.
Opinion of the Court.

by Revised Statutes, sec. 709, to review the final judgment or
decree of a state court where "any title, right, privilege or
mmunity is claimed under
any
authority
exercised under the United States, and the decision is against
the title, right, privilege or immunity specially set up or
claimed by either party under such
authority,
" etc. Now, as McNulta was exercising an authority
as receiver under an order of the Federal court, and claimed
immunity as such receiver from suit without the previous.
leave of such court, and the decision was adverse to such
claim, he is entitled to a review of such ruling whether his
claim be founded upon the statute or upon principles of
general jurisprudence. We regard this as a legitimate deduction from the opinions of this court in Buck v Colbath, 3
Wall. 334, Feibelman v Packard, 109 U. S. 421, PatficRailroad Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1, DEherzdge v Sperry,
139 U. S. 266, and Bock v Perkns, 139 U. S. 628. The
motion to dismiss must therefore be denied.
(3) But, as there was, for the reasons above stated, color
for the motion to dismiss, we are at liberty to inquire whether
there is any foundation for the position of the receiver in this
case that he is not liable to suit without permission of tlie
Federal court, and we are of the opinion that there is not.
The act of March 3, 1887, declares that "every receiver
may be sued in respect of any act or transaction of his in
carrying on the business connected with such property, without the previous leave of the court in which said receiver or
manager was appointed." We agree with the Supreme Court
-of Illinois that it was not intended by the word "his" to limit
the right to sue to cases where the cause of action arose from
the conduct of the receiver himself or his agents; but that
with respect to the question of liability he stands in place of
tbe corporation. His position is somewhat analogous to that
of a corporation sole, with respect to which it is held by the
authorities that actions will lie by and against the actual
incumbents of such corporations for causes of action accruing under their predecessors in office. Polk v Plummer,
2 Humphreys, 500, Jansen v Ostrander, 1 Cowen, 670. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

actions were brought against the receivership generally or
against the corporation by name, "in the hands of," or "in
the possession of," a receiver without stating the name of the
individual, it would more accurately represent the character
or status of the defendant. So long as the property of the
corporation remains m the custody of the court and is administered through the agency of a receiver, such receivership is
continuous and uninterrupted until the court relinquis)1es its
hold upon the property, though its personnel may be subject
to repeated changes. Actions against the receiver are in law
actions agaInst the receivership, or the funds in the hands of
the receiver, and his contracts, misfeasances, negligences and
liabilities are official and not personal, and judgments against
him as receiver are payable only from the funds in his hands.
As the right given by the statute to sue for the acts and transactions of the receivership is unlimited, we cannot say that it
should be restricted to causes of action arising from the conduct of the receiver against whom the suit is brought, or his
agents.
The defence is frivolous, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Illinois must be
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTI
GRAY, having been
absent when this case was submitted, took no part in its
decision.

MAGOWAN v. NEW YORK BELTING AND PACKING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 30. Argued October 14, 15, 1891.-Deeded October 26, 1891.
Letters patent No. 86,296, granted to the New York Delting and Packing
Company, as assignee of Dennis C. Gately, the inventor, January 26,
1869, for "improvements in vulcanized i'dia-rubber packing," involved
invention, and were valid.

