OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Appellant.

It is only by virtue of such of its property as is situated in
Pennsylvania that the Pullman Company can be taxed there.
Its capital stock, as such, is certainly not taxable there. In
the case of WFestern Unson TelegrapAh Co. v. Xt!asachusetts, the
tax was sustained only on the ground that it was a tax on the.property 2n Massachusetts. The idea that the capital stock,
as such, could be taxed was repudiated. The State can no
more tax the capital stock of a foreign corporation than it can
tax the capital of a foreign person. Pennsylvania cannot tax
a citizen and resident of New York, either for the whole or
any portion of his general property or capital. It can only
tax such property of that citizen as may be located and have
a situs in Pennsylvania. State Tax on _Forezgn Bonds, 15
Wall. 300. And it is exactly the same with a foreign corpora
tion. Its capital, as such, is not taxable. Gloucester Ferry
Co. v Pennsylvania, qua supra. To hold otherwise would
lead to the most oppressive and unjust proceedings. It would
lead to a course of spoliation and reprisals that would endanger
the harmony of the Union.
MR. JUSTICE BRowNf, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY v. HAYWARD.
.PPEAL IRO3I THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 38.

Argued March 6,7, 1890.-Dectded May 25,1891.

Following Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvarna, ante, 18, the judgment
of the court below is affirmed.

THE ease is stated m 'the opinion.
Xr Edward . .Isham and 1r- ,ohn S. Bunnells for appel.
lant.

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. HAYWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

31r 1. B. Xellogg, Attorney General of the State of
Kansas, and .r I 1TF Scott for appellees.
Mm JUSTICE GRLY delivered the Qpilion of the court.
This was a bill in equity by Pullman's Palace Car Company, a corporation of Illinois, and having its place of business and its principal office in that State, against the treasurers
of fifty counties in Kansas, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa
F6 Railroad Company and- eight other railroad companies,
corporations of Kansas, the Missouii Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of Missouri, and the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, "a corporation organized and existing under the laws
of the United States of America, and a resident and citizen of
the State of Nebraska," to restrain the collection of a tax
assessed in 1885 and 1886, by the board of railroad assessors
of the State of Kansas, to the said railroad corporations, upon
sleeping cars, dining-room cars and parlor cars, owned by the
plaintiff, and by it let to those corporations, and employed
exclusively in interstate commerce; and apportioned among
the counties aforesaid according to the mileage of the railroads in each county, and levied accordingly in those counties;
and all which taxes were assessed, apportioned and levied under
the Compiled Laws of Kansas of 1885, c. 107, art. ', the mate-'
rial parts of which are copied in the margin.1
1 SEc. 26. For the purpose of assessment of railroads and the property
of railroad corporations, the lieutenant governor, secretary of state, treasurer of state, auditor of state and the attorney general are hereby constituted a board of railroad assessors, who are empowered, and it is hereby
made their duty, to assess all the property of the railroads and railroad corporations in the State of Kansas. Provided, that nothing in this section contained shall be construed to include within the meaning of this act any real
estate in this State owned by any railroad company and not used, or necessary to be used, for the convenient and daily operation of its railroads;
nor shall it include any buildings that are not in whole or in part situated
upon the right of way of such road, but such real estate shall be assessed
and taxed in tihe same manner as other real estate, anything in this section
to the contra.y notwithstanding.
SEC. 27. The board, when properly organized as herein provided for,
shall proceed to ascertain all the personal. property of any railroad com-

OCTOBER, TERMr, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

A demurrer filed by the county treasurers was sustained,
and a final decree entered dismissing the bill, and the plaintiff
appealed to this court.
panv owning, operating or constructing a railway in this State, which, for
the purposes of assessment and taxation, shall be held to include the track,
road-bed, right of way water and fuel stations, buildings and land on which
they are situated, adjacent to or connected with the right of way, machinery,
rolling stock, telegraph lines and all instruments connected therewith,
material on hand and supplies provided for operating and carrying on the
business of such railroad, together with the moneys, credits and all other
property of such railway company, used or held for the purpose of operating its railroad by such railway company, and appraise and assess such
property at its actual value in: money.
SEC. 28. Every person, company or corporation, owning, operating or
constructing a railroad in this State, shall return sworn lists or schedules
of the taxable property of such railroad company or corporation, as hereinafter provided. Such property shall be listed with reference to the amount,
kind and value on the first day of March in the year in which it is listed.
SEC. 29. On or before tue twentieth day of March, eighteen hundred and
seventy-six, and at the same time in each year thereafter, the person, company or corporation owning, operating or constructing any railroad in this
State shall, by its president, secretary or principal accounting officer, return
to the auditor of state a sworn statement or schedule, as follows:
Fifth, a full list of the iolling stock belonging to or operated by the person,
company or corporation, which shall distinctly set forth the number, class
and value of all locomotives, passenger cars, sleeping cars, dining cars,
express cars, mail cars, baggage cars, horse cars, cattle cars, coal cars,
platform cars, wrecking cars, pay cars and all other kind of cars owned
or leased by said company.
SEc 30. All sleeping, dining, palace or other cars that make regular trips
over any railroad in this State, and not owned by such railroad company,
shall be listed by the manager, agent or conductor, or other person having
such cars in charge, and return made to state auditor, the same as is required
of railroad companies, and the company operating or using said cars shall
be held liable for the taxes due thereon.
SEc. 33. The board'of railroad assessors, after having valued and assessed
all the railroad property in this State in accordance with the provisions of
this article, shall through the auditor of state make returns to the county
clerks of each and every county in which any portion of said rhilroad property, as designated in t'his article, may be located.
SEC. 34. Such returns shall be as follows: First, number of miles of
main track located in each city and township in the county, and the total
length in the county. Second, the average valuation per mile; such valuation to include the following items Track, right of way, franchises, roadbed, roiling stock, telegraph lines and instruments connected therewith,

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. HAYWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

This case presents substantially the same questions as the
case of Pulma's Palace Car Co. v Pennsylvansa, argued
with it, and just decided, and is disposed of by the opinion in
that case.
Decree afirmed.
itx. JusTICE FIELD, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY and X.
JuSTmE
EABLAN dissented, for the reasons stated in their opinion in

Pullran'sPalace Car Co. v. Pennsyvans, ante, 18.
MR.JuSTiCE BRowx, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.
material on hand, supplies and tools, and all other property used in the
operation of the road, and all moneys and credits. Third, the average valuation per mile of allpersonal property enumerated in this article. Fourth,
the amount of valuation that shall be placed to the credit of each city and
township in the county, as heretofore provided for in this section.
SEC. 38. The county clerk, as soon as he shall have received the return
of railroad assessment from the auditor of state, shall certify to the proper
officer of the different school districts, cities and townships in his county
in or through which any portion of the railroad is located, the amount of
such ass'ssment that is to be placed upon the tax roll for the benefit of such
school discict, city or township, and he shall at the proper time place
such assessment on the proper tax roll of his county, sub3ect to the same
per cent of levy for different purposes as m other property.

