OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR.
THEI DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 317. Argued March 10, 11, 1891. -Decided

October 19,1891.

longress, March 3, 1863, granted to Kansas every alternate section of land,
designated by odd numbers for ten sections in width on each side, in aid
of the construction of the following roads and each branch thereof
.First, a railroad and telegraph from the city of Leavenworth, Kansas,
by the way of Lawrence and the Ohio City crossing of the Osage River,
to the Southern line 'of the. State in the direction of Galveston Bay, in
Texas, with a branch from Lawrence by the valley of the Wakarusa,
River to the point on the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad,
where that road intersects the Neosho River- Second, a railroad from the
city of Atchison, Kansas, via Topeka, to the western line of that State,
in the direction of Fort Union and Santa F6, New Mexico, with a branch
where the latter road crosses the Neosho, down said Neosho Valley to
the point where the road, first named, enters the Neosho Valley. The
act provided that in the case of deficiencies in place limits, it should "be
the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to cause to be selected, for the,
purposes aforesaid, from the public lands of the United States fiearest to.
tiers of sections above specified, so much land, in alternate section's, or
parts of sections, designated by odd numbers, as shall be equal to such
lands as the United States have sold, reserved or otherwise appropriated,
or to which the rights of preemption or homestead settlements have
attached." The act also provided that the "sections and parts of sections of land which, by such grant, shall remain to the United States,
within ten miles on each side of said road and branches " [that is, the
even-numbered sections within the place or granted limits,] "s h all not.
be sold for less than double the minimum price of the public lands when
sold, nor shall any of said lands become subject to sale'at private entry
until the same shall have been first offered at public sale to the highest
bidder, at or above the increased minimum price, as aforesaid Provided,
That actual and bona fide settlers, under the provisions of the preemption and homestead laws of the United States, may, after due:proof of
settlement, improvement, cultivation and occupation, as now provided by
law, purchase the same at the increased minimum price aforesaid. And.
.provided, also, That settlers on any of said reserved sections, under the
provisions of the homestead law, who improve, occupy and cultivate the.
same for a period of five years, and comply with the several conditions
and requirements of said act, shall be entitled to patents for an amount

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

359

Syllabus.
not exceeding eighty acres each, anything in this act to the contrary
notwithstanding." By a subsequent act, July 16, 1866, for the benefit
of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Southern Branch, there was
granted to the State for the use of that company, " every alternate section of land, or parts thereof, designated by odd numbers to the extent of
five alternate sections per mile on each side of said road, and not exceeding in all ten sections per mile; but in case it shall appear that the
United States have, when the line of said road is definitely located, sold
any section or any part thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that the right
of preEmption or homestead settlement has attached to the same, or
that the same has been reserved by the United States for any purpose
whatever, then it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to
cause to be selected for the purposes aforesaid, from the public lands of
the United States nearest to the sections above specified, so much land
as shall be equal to the amount of such lands as the United States have
sold, reserved or otherwise appropriated, or to which the right of homestead settlement or preEmption has attached as aforesaid, which lands,
thus indicated by the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall be
reserved and held for the State of Kansas for the, use of said company
by the said Secretary for the purpose of the construction and operation
of said railroad, as provided by this act." This last act provided also
"1That any and all lands heretofore reserved to the United States by any
act of Congress, or m any other mauner by competent authority, for the
purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement or other purpose whatever, be, and the same are hereby, reserved and excepted from
the operation of this act, except so far as it may be found necessary to
locate the route of said road through such reserved lands, in which case
the right of way, two hundred feet in width, is hereby granted subject
to the approval of the President of the United States: And provided further, That said lands hereby granted shall not be selected beyond twenty
miles from the line of said road." The routes of the Leavenworth,
Lawrence and Fort Gibson Railroad Company, which got the benefit of the
first road named in the act of 1863, and the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Southern Branch, now the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad
Company which succeeded also to the rights of 'the Atchison company
in respect to the road down the Neosho Valley crossed each.other in the
valley so that some of the even-numbered sections within the original
place limits of the first-named road were within the indemnity limits of
the latter road, and some even-numbered sections were within the common indemnity limits of'both roads. Held, (1) That the even-numbered
sections within the place limits of the Leavenworth, Lawrence and Fort
Gibson Railroad were reserved to the United States by the act of 1863,
and, therefore were excepted from the grant in the act of 1866 and could
not be patented to the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company to
supply deficiencies in its place limits; (2) The even-numbered sections
that were within the common indemnity limits of both roads could be used
to supply deficiencies in the place limits of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
Railway Company saving the rights acquired under the preEmption and
homestead laws before the selection of such lands for purposes of indemnity.
The principle reaffirmed that title to indemnity lands does not vest in a
railroad company for the benefit of which they are contingently granted,
but remains in the United States until they are actually selected and set
apart under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior specifically for
indemnity purposes.
Where a patent has been fraudulently obtained, and such fraudulent
patent, if allowed to stand, would work .prejudice to the interests or
rights of the United States, or would prevent the government from fulfilling an obligation incurred by it, either to the public or to an individual, which personal litigation could not remedy, there would be an occasion which would make it the duty of the government to institute judicial
proceedings to vacate such patent. These principles equally apply where
patents have been issued by mistake, and they are especially applicable
where a multiplicity of suits, each one depending upon the same facts
and the same questions of law can be avoided, and where a comprehensive decree, covering all contested rights, would accomplish the substantial ends of justice.
Kansas City, Lawrence &c. Bailroadv. The Attorney General, 118 U. S. 682
distinguishea, and held to decide only the right of the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas Company to indemnity from the odd-numbered sections within
the overlapping indemnity limits of that company and the Leavenworth,
Lawrence and Fort Gibson Company.

IN EQUITY. Defendants demurred to the bill, and the demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed. Plaintiffs appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.

.A

Asszstant Attorney General .faury for appellants.

Simon
A. L. Williams and .r
rr A. B. Browne, .r
Sterne, (with whom on the brief were Mr A. T Britton
and 2fr James R1agerman,) for the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway Company, appellee.
.Mr William Lawrence, on behalf of settlers, for appellants.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity by the United States for the cancellation of certain patents for lands in Allen County, Kansas,
,'fdate respectively November 3,1873, March 19, 1875, August

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

361

Opinion of the Court.
17, 1876, and April 23, 1877, and alleged to have been issued
to the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company without
authority of law
The institution of such a suit as this was recommended by
the Secretary of the Interior in a communication addressed to
the Attorney General under date of June 10, 1886. 4 Land
Decisions, 573, 578, 5 Land Decisions, 280, 481. The present
suit was not, however, brought until after the passage of the
act of Congress of March' 3, 1887, .requiring the immediate
adjustment by the Secretary of the Interior, in accordance
with the decisions of this court, of all unadjusted land grants
made by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads. 24
Stat. 556, c. 376. That act made it the duty of the Attorney
Geneyal to commence and prosecute suits for the cancellation of
all patents, certification or other evidence of title issued for
public lands, and to restore the title to the United States in
all cases of lands appearing - upon the completion of such
adjustments or sooner - to have been "erroneously certified or
patented, by the United States, to or for the use or benefit of
any company claiming by, through or under grant from the
United States, to aid in the construction of a railroad," if such
company neglected or failed, upon demand by the Secretary
of the Interior, to relinquish or reconvey to the United States
all such lands, whether within granted or indemnity limits.
(Sections 1 and 2.)
The act also provided that a bonaftde settler whose homestead or preemption entry had been erroneously cancelled on
account of any railroad grant, or the withdrawal of public
lands from market, should, upon application, be reinstated in
all his rights and allowed to perfect his entry, by complying
with the public land laws, provided he had not located another
entry in lieu of the one so erroneously cancelled, or voluntarily
abandoned his original entry, and if a settler did not, within
a reasonable time to be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior,
make his application to be reinstated, all such unclaimed lands
were required to be disposed of under the public land laws,
with priority of right to bonaftde purchasers, if any, then to
bonafde settlers residing thereon. (Section 3.j%

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In respect to lands, except those last mentioned, found to
have been erroneously certified or patented, and to have been
sold by the grantee company to citizens of the United States,
or to persons who had declared their intention to become such,
it was provided that "the person or persons so purchasing in
good faith, his heirs or assigns, shall be entitled to the land so
purchased, upon making proof of the fact of such purchase at
the proper land office, within such time and under such rules
as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, after
the grants respectively shall have been adjusted, and patents
of the United States shall issue therefor, and shall relate back
to the date of the original certification or patenting, and the
Secretary of the Interior, on behalf of the United States, shall
demand payment from the company which has so disposed of
such lands of an amount equal to the Government price of
similar lands;" the right of the purchaser of the lands so
erroneously withdrawn, certified or patented to recover the
purchase-money therefor from the grantee company, less the
amount paid to the United States by such company, being
saved, and no mortgage or pledge of the Jlands by the company to be considered as a sale for the purpose of the act.
(Section 4.)
It was further provided that where a company had sold to
citizens of the .United States, or to persons who had declared
their intention to become such citizens, as a part of its grant,
lands not conveyed to or for its use, such lands being the numbered sections prescribed in the grant, and being coterminous
with the constructed parts of the road, and where the lands so
sold were excepted from the operation of the grant to the
company, it should be lawful for the bona fide purchaser
thereof from the company to make payment to the United
States at the ordinary Government price for like lands, and
thereupon patents should issue therefor to him, his heirs or
assigns. All lands were excepted from these provisions which
at the date of such sales were in the bona fde occupation of
adverse claimants under the preemption or homestead laws of
the United States, and whose clauns and occupation had not
since been -voluntarily abandoned, as to which excepted lands

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

369

Opinion of the Court.

the said pregmption and homestead claimants were permitted
to perfect their proofs and entries and receive patents. These
last provisions do not apply "to lands settled upon subsequent.
to the first day of December, eighteen hundred and eighty-two,
by persons claiming to enter the same under the settlement
laws of the United States, as to which lands the parties claiming the same as aforesaid shall be entitled to prove up and
enter as in other like cases." (Section 5.)
Demurrers to the bill having been sustained. 37 Fed. Rep.
68, and the suit dismissed, the United States prosecuted the
present appeal.
The lands in dispute are of two classes: 1. Even-numbered
sections that are within the original ten-mile or place limits of
the Leavenworth, Lawrence and Fort Gibson Railroad Company, subsequently named the Leavenworth, Lawrence and
Galveston Railroad Company, and to be hereafter, in this
opinion, referred to as the Leavenworth Company Those
sections are also within the indemnity limits of the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railroad Company, originally named the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, Southern Branch, and to
be hereafter referred to as the Missounri-Kansas, Company2. Even-numbered sections within the common indemnity
limits of both roads.
No question is presented in this case as to the odd-numbered
sections within either the place or the indemnity limits of the
Leavenworth road.
In respect to each of the above classes of lands, the bill
alleges that rights had attached under the homestead and preZmption laws in favor of settlers, some, before the passage of
the act, to be presently referred to, under which the MissouriKansas Company claims, and others after that date, but before
the selection of such lands, by the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, as indemnity lands for that company
But the principal question raised by the demurrer is whether
the Missouri-Kansas Company was entitled, under any circumstances whatever, to make up losses or deficiencies, occurring
in its place limits, from even-numbered sections within either
the place or indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

question depends upon the construction of three acts of Congress, passed, respectively, March 3, 1863, July 1, 1861, and
July 26, 1866, granting lands to the State of Kansas to aid in
the construction of these railroads.
The grant made by the act of March 3, 1863, was of every
alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers for ten
sections in width on each side, in aid of the construction of
the following roads and each branch thereof: First,a railroad
and telegraph from the city of Leavenworth, Kansas, by the
way of Lawrence and the Ohio City crossing of the Osage
River, to the southern line of the State in the direction of Galveston Bay, in Texas, with a branch from Lawrence by the
valley of the Wakarusa River to the point on the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad, where that road intersects the
Neosho River, Secend, a railroad from the city of Atchison,
Kansas, via Topeka, to the western line of that State, in the
direction of Fort Union and Santa F6, New Mexico, with a
branch where the latter road crosses the Neosho, down said
Neosho Valley to the point where the road, first named, (the
Leavenworth road,) enters the Neosho Valley In respect to
each road and branches, it was provided that "in case it shall
appear that the United States have, when the lines or routes
of said road and branches are definitely fixed, sold any section
or any part thereof granted as aforesaid, or that the right of
pre~mption or homestead settlement has attached to the same,
or that the same has been reserved by the United States, for
any purpose whatever, then it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to cause to be selected for the purposes
aforesaid from the public lands of the United States nearest
to tiers of sections above specified, so much land, in alternate
sections, or parts of sections, designated by odd numbers, as
shall be equal to such lands as the United States have sold,
reserved or otherwise appropriated, or to which the rights of
preemption or homestead settlements, have attached as aforesaid, which lands thus indicated by odd numbers, and selected
by direction of the Secretary of the Interior as aforesaid, shall
be held by the State of Kansas for the use and purpose aforesaid Prowded, That the land to be so selected shall, in no

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

365

Opinion of the Court.

case, be located further than twenty miles from the lines of
said road and branches Provided, further, That the lands
hereby granted for and on account of said roads and branches
severally, shall be exclusively applied in the construction of
the same, and for no other purpose whatever, and shall be disposed of only as the work progresses through the same, as in
this act hereinafter provided.
" 12 Stat. 772, c. 98, § 1.
The second section of the act provided that "the sections
and parts of sections of land which, by such grant, shall remain
to the United States, within ten miles on each -side of said road
and branches," [that is, the even-numbered sections within the
place or granted limits,] "shall not be sold for less than double
the m nimum price of the public lands when sold, nor shall
any of said lands become subject to sale at prvate entry uitil
the same shall have been frst ofered at public sale to the highest
bidder, at or above the ?inoreasedminzmum.price, as aforesaid
Provided,That actual and bona fide settlers, under the provisions of the pregmption and homestead laws of the United
States, may, after due proof of settlement, improvement, cultivation and occupation, as now provided by law, purchase
the same at the increased minimum .prwe, aforesaid And
provided, also, that settlers on any of s. id reserved sections,
under the provisions, of the homestead law, who improve,
occupy and cultivate the same for a period of five years, and
comply with the several conditions and requirements of said
act, shall be entitled to patents for an amount not exceeding
eighty acres each, anything in this act to the contrary notwithstanding."
The State of Kansas, by an act approved February 9, 1864,
accepted the above grant, upon the terms and conditions prescribed by Congress; and gave the benefit of it, in respect to
the railroad and telegraph first mentioned in the act of 1863,
to the Leavenworth Company; and in respect to the other
railroad and telegraph, to the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railroad Company, formerly the Atchison and Topeka Railroad Company, to be hereafter referred to as the Atchison
Company
By the act of July 1, 1864, Congress granted to Kansas, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
'Opinon of the Court.

aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from
Emporia by the way of Council Grove, to a point near Fort
Riley, on the branch Union Pacific Railroad, in that State,
"every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers
for ten sections in width on each side of said road," subject to
the provisions, restrictions, limitations and conditions prescribed in the above act of March 3, 1863, and also changed
the branch railroad and telegraph line from Lawrence'by the
valley of the Wakarusa River to a point on the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad, where that road intersects the
Neosho River, so as to run from Lawrence to Emporia, and
thus changed, to have the grant of lands made by the act of
1863. 13 Stat. 339, c. 198.
The above acts of Congress of 1863 and 1864: were accepted,
and thereafter, by writing, of date March 19, 1866, the Atchison Company sold, assigned and transferred to the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, Southern Branch, a corporation
of Kansas-the Missouri-Kansas Company-all the rights,
titles, interests, franchises, privileges, immunities and liabilities
held, acquired, possessed and enjoyed for constructing, maintaining, operating and enjoying a railroad, from a point at or
near Fort Riley down the :Neosho Valley to where the Leavenworth road might enter the Neosho Valley, "which rights,
titles, interests, franchises, authorities, immunities and liabilities accrued to and became vested" in the assignor company
"by virtue of its acceptance of the provisions of the act of the
legislature of the State of Kansas," the assignee company
agreeing to perform all the duties, and to meet all the obligations and liabilities, assumed by the other company in respect
to the said road. This assignment was ratified by a joint
resolution of the legislature of Kansas passed February 27,
'1867.

The act of July 26, 1866, provided, among other things, that
for the purpose of aiding the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Southern Branch, [the Missouri-Kansas Company,] a
corporation organized under the laws of vhe State of Kansas,
"to construct and operate a railroad from Fort Riley, Kansas,
,or near said military'reservation, thence down the valley of

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

367

Opinion: of the Court.

the Neosho River to the southern 'line of the State of Kansas,
-with a view to an extension of the same through a portion of
the Indian Territory to Fort Smith, Arkansas, there is hereby
granted to the State of Kansas, for the use and benefit of said
railroad company, every alternate section of land or parts
thereof designated by odd numbers to the extent of five alternate sections per mile on each side of said road, and not ex•ceeding in all ten sections per mile but in case it shall appear
that the United States have, when the line of said road is
definitely located, sold any section or any part thereof, granted
as aforesaid, or that the right of preemption or homestead
settlement has attached to the same, or that the same has
been reserved by the United States for any purpose whatever, then it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior
to cause to be selected for the purposes aforesaid, from the
public lands of the United States nearest to the sections above
*yecfted,so much land as shall be equal to the amount of such
lands as the United States have sold, reserved or otherwise
appropriated, or to which the right of homestead settlement
or pregmption has attached as aforesaid, which lands, thus
indicated by the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
shall be reserved and held for the State of Kansas for the use
of said company by the said Secretary for the purpose of the
construction and operation of said railroad, as provided by
this act Provmded, That any and all lands heretofore reserved
to the United States by any act of Congress, or n any other
manner by competent authorityfor the purose'of aiding 'n
any object of tnternal Tmprovement or other purpose whatever,
be, and the same are hereby, reserved and excepted from the
operation of thm act, except so far as it may be found necessary to.locate the route of said road through such reserved
lands, in which case the right of way, two hundred feet in
width, is hereby granted subject to the approval of the President of the United States -Andprovided further, That said
lands hereby granted shall not be selected beyond twenty
miles from the line of said road." 14 Stat. 289, c. 270.
The contention of the government is, that the lands in dispute-the even-numbered sections within both the place limits

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and the indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road -had been
"reserved to the United States" by the act of 1863, and,
therefore, were excluded from the operation of the act of 1866,
consequently they could not be taken for or patented to the
Missouri-Kansas Company If the premise of this contention
be true the conclusion just stated would necessarily follow,
because, although by the first section of the act of 1866 that
company was entitled to indemnity from "the public lands of
the Uhited States nearest to the sections" within its granted
or place limits, and within twenty miles of its line, for all
granted sections or parts of granted sections, which, at the
time of the definite location of its road appeared to have been
sold by the.United States, or to which the right of preemption
or homestead settlement had attached, or whicn had been
reserved to the United States for any purpose whatever, the
first proviso of the same section reserved and exceptedfrom
the operation of the act all lands reserved to the UnttedState&
by any act of Congress, or in any other manner by competent
authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal
improvement, or other purpose whatever. Of course, lands so
reserved and excepted from the operation of the act could not
be selected as indemnity lands for the road in aid of the
construction of whch the grant of 1866 was made. The
important inquiry, therefore, is, whether, within the meaning
of the act of 1866, the lands in dispute, or any of them, were
reserved to the United States by the act of 1863.
A reservation clause, such as the one in the act of 1866, first
appeared in the act of Congress of September 20, 1850, granting lands to the State of Illinois in aid of the construction of
what is now the Illinois Central Railroad. 4 Land Decisions,
575. Congress, by an act passed March 2, 1827, had made a,
similar grant in aid of the construction of the Illinois and
Michigan Canal, with a reservation of each alternate section
to the United States. In order that the canal might have the
full benefit of the lands covered by the grant of 1827, the following clause was inserted in the act of 3,850 "And provided
fiurther, That any and all lands reserved to the United States
by the act entitled 'An act to grant a quantity of land to the

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

369

Opinion of the Court.

State of Illinois for the purpose of aiding in opening a canal
to connect the waters of the Illinois River with those of Lake
Michigan,' approved March 2, 1827, be, and the same 4re
hereby, reserved to the United States from the operations of
this act." 9 Stat. 466, c. 61, Cong. Globe, vol. 21, p. 900.
The policy indicated by this reservation was pursued in all
subsequent acts granting lands to aid in the construction of
railroads, the only difference between the reservation clause
in the act of 1850, and those inserted in subsequent acts, being
that the former was special in its application to a particular
previous grant, while each one of the latter class was general
in its application to prior grants of every kind. The manifest
object of the general proviso was to exclude from the particular grant all lands previously reserved to the United States
for any specific object whatever, and, thereby, enable the
Government to accomplish those objects without confusion or
conflict in the administration of the public domain, and thus.
keep faith with those to or for whose benefit prior grants were
made. .Dubuque & Paf*
Railroad v Litchfild, 23 How.
66, Wolcott v Des .Xomnes Co., 5 Wall. 681, 687, Homestead
Co. v 7'alley Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 153, Wolsey v. Chapman, 101 U S. 755, 1itchfield v TWebster County, 101 U.. S.
773, Dubuque &c. Railroad v Des Mones Valley Railroad"
Co., 109, U. S. 329, KYansas PacoAt Railway v Dunmeyer, 113.
U. S. 629, Bullardv Des _Motnes &c. Railroad,122 U. S. 167,
176, Hastings & Dakota Railroadv Thitney, 132. U. S. 357.
Having regard to the words and the conceded object of the
reservation clause, we are of opinion that the position of the
Government, in respect to the even-numbered sections, within
the ten-mile or place limits of the Leavenworth road, is .well
taken. The grant, in the act of 1863, was of every alternate
section of land designated by odd numbers, for ten sections in
width on each side of the road, with the right, in case of loss
of lands, within the place limits, from any of the specified
causes, to select indemnity lands (not, generally, from the public lands of the United States, but) from "the public lands of
the United States nearest to ters of sections above specified,"
that is, nearest to the tiers of sections in place limits, and
VOL. CXLI-21

OCTOBER TERM-,

1891.

Opnion of the Court.

within twenty miles of the road- the lands, thus selected for
indemnity, to be odd-numbered sections. It is too obvious to
require argument to.show that, as losses to the Leavenworth
road in its place limits were required to be made up from oddnumbered sections inside of the exterior line of its indemnity
limits, the even-numbered sections in its place limits could not
be used to supply such deficiencies. Such even-numbered
sections in the place limits were, therefore, referred to in the
second section of the act of 1863, as "reserved sections" that
"remain to the United States."
The defendants insist; however, that they were not "reserved to the United States" within the meaning of the act
of 1866. It is true, they were not reserved to aid in the construction of the Leavenworth road, or for any specified object
of internal improvement. But the act of 1866 does not restrict
the objects of the reservation to works of internal improve,
ment. If the reservation in question was by Congress, or
other competent authority,for any purpose whatever, then the
lands so reserved were excluded from the operation of the act
of'1866. Now, it is clear that the even-numbered sections,
within the place limit-of the Leavenworth road, were -eserved
by the act of 1863, for purposes distinctly declared by Congress, and which might be wholly defeated if the MissouriKansas Company were permitted to take them as indemnity
lands under the act of 1866. The requirement in the second
section of the act of 1863, that the "reserved sections" which
"remain to the United States," within ten miles on each side
of the Leavenworth road, "shall not be sold for less than
double the minimum price of the public lands when sold," nor
be subject to sale at private entry until they'had been offered
at public sale to the highest bidder, at or above the increased
minimum price, the privilege given to actual bono,, de settlers,
under the pregmption and homestead laws, to purchase those
lands at the increased minimum price, after due proof of settlement, improvement, cultivation and occupancy, and the right
accorded: to settlers on such sections under the homestead
laws, improving, occupying and cultivating the same, to have
patents for no. Pceeding eighty acres each, are inconsistent

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

371

Opinion of the Cor

with the theory that the even-numbered sections, so remaining
to the United States, within the place limits of the Leavenworth road could be taken as indemnity lands for a railroad
corporation.
As the natural result of the construction of the road aided
would be an increase in the market value of the reserved sections remaining to the United States, within the place limits
of the Leavenworth road, those sections were not left to be
disposed of under the general laws relating to the public
domain. But, in order that the government might get the
benefit of such increased value, and thereby reimburse itself to
some extent for the lands granted -the title to which vested
in the State or the company upon the definite location of the
line of the road, and, by relation, as of the date of the grant,
-the act of 1863 made special provisions in reierence to those
reserved sections, and thereby, and for the"accomplishment of
particular purposes expressly declared, segregated them from
the body of the public lands of the United States. Being
thus devoted to specified objects, they were reserved to the
United States, and could not be selected by the State either
under the act of 1863 or under that of 1866 for other and different objects. They could not be selected as indemnity lands
under the act of 1863, because the lands to be selected under
that act were restricted to odd-numbered sections; nor under
the act of 1866, because, at the date of its passage they were
reserved for the special purposes indicated in the second section of the act of 1863.
It follows that the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad
Company was not entitled, in virtue of the act of 1866, to
have indemnity lands from the even-numbered sections within
the _lace limits of the Leavenworth road. The issuing of
patents to it for such lands was unauthorized by law
But we are of opinion that, in respect to.the even-numbered
sections within the indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road,
that is, outside of ten and within twenty miles of its line, the
case stands upon wholly different grounds. We cannot assent
to the suggestion that they also were reserved by the act of
1863, and excluded from the operation of the act of 1866.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The utmost that could be claimed, in respect to lands within
the indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road, is, that the
odd-numbered sections in those limits being designated by
the act of 1863 as the source from which to supply losses in
the place limits of that road, were excluded from the operation
of the act of 1866. Whether such a claim could be sustained
or not, we need not now inquire, but that contention, if sound,
does not meet the exigencies of the present case. We are
dealing here with the even-numbered sections in the indemnity
limits of the Leavenworth road, which were not devoted by
the act of 1863 to any specified purpose, but were left under
the general laws regulating the disposal of the public lands.
No provision was made, as in the case of the even-numbered
or reserved sections within the place limits, for their sale at
not less than double the minimum price of the public lands
when sold, nor were any restrictions placed upon their sale or
disposition different from those applicable to the public lands
generally Settlers under the pregmption and homestead laws
were accorded by the act of 1863 no more rights and privileges
in respect to the even-numbered sections within the ndemnity
limits of the Leavenworth road than they had in other public
lands of the United States wherever situated. They were
reserved to the United States only in the sense that all the
public lands of the United States, not set apart for some declared object, are reserved to be disposed of under the general
laws relating to the public domain. But a reservation of that
general character is not what was meant by the act of 1866.
That act excluded from its operation only such lands as had
been reserved by Congress or other competent authority for
some distinct, defined purpose.
This conclusion finds support in the peculiar language of the
act of 1866 allowing selections by the Missouri-Kansas Company of indemnity lands within twenty miles of its road,
to be made from "the public lands of the United States
nearest to the sections above spedified," that is, nearest to the
odd-numbered sections within the place limits. Many acts of
Congress, making grants of public lands ift aid of the construction of railroads, have restricted the selection of indem-

UNITED STATES v.

IISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

373

Opimon of the Court.

nity lands simply to alternate sections or parts of sections
nearest or most contiguous to the tier of sections in the place
limits; thus apparently leaving it to the Secretary of the
Interior - subject, it may be, to the requirement as to alternation - to approve as he might think best, the selection of oddnumbered or even-numbered sections within the prescribed
indemnity limits.1 In many other acts the selection of indemnity lands was restricted to the odd-numbered sections, as was
the case in the above act of 1863.2 The two classes of acts are
to be found in the legislation of Congress, at the session when
the act of July 26, 1866, for the benefit of the Missouri-Kansas
Company, was passed. The grants to Missouri and Minnesota
of July 4, 1866, to Kansas of July 23, 1866, to the California and Oregon Railroad Company of July 25, 1866, and to
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company of July 27, 1866,
all, in terms, provided for the selection of odd-numbered sections for purposes of indemnity, while the grant to Kansas of
July 25, 1866, to aid in the construction of the Kansas and
Neosho Valley Railroad Company, and the grant of July 26,
1866, to the same State, for the benefit of the Missouri-Kansas
Company, contained no such restriction, and only required
that indemnity lands be selected from the public lands of the
United States nearest to the tier of granted sections within
the place limits of the respective roads. 14 Stat. 83, c. 165,
Id. 87, c. 168, Id. 210, c. 212, Id. 239, c. 242, Id. 293, 295,
c. 278, Id. 236, c. 241, Id. 289, c. 270. This difference in
land grant acts was not unusual, as will be seen from the van1 Illinois (1850), 9 Stat. 466; Missouri (1852), 10 Stat. 8, Arkansas and
Missouri (1853), 10 Stat. 155; Iowa (1856), 11 Stat. 9; Florida (1856), 11
Stat. 15, Alabama (1856), 11 Stat. 17, Louisiana (1856), 11 Stat. 18; Michigan (1856), 11 Stat. 21, Wisconsin (1856), 11 Stat. 20; Mississippi (1856), 11
Stat. 30; Minnesota and Alabama (1857), 11 Stat. 195; Minnesota (1864), 13
Stat. 64, Wisconsin (1864), 13 Stat. 66.
: Kansas (1863), 12 Stat. 772; Iowa (1864), 13 Stat. 72; Northern Pacific
Railroad (1864), 13 Stat. 365. Minnesota (1866), 14 Stat. 87 Kansas (1866),
14 Stat. 210; California and Oregon Railroad (1866), 14 Stat. 239; Atlant.
and Pacific, and Southern Pacific Railroads (1866), 14 Stat. 292; Oregon Central Railroad (1870), 16 Stat. 94, Texas Pacific Railroad (1871), 16 Stat.
573.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ous statutes cited in the margin. We do not feel at liberty to
hold that this difference was unintentional upon the part of
Congress. It is too well defined in its legislation to justify
any such interpretation. The words in the act of July 26,
1866, for the benefit of the Missouri-Kansas Company, indicating the source from which indemnity lands were to be obtained,
namely, "from the public lands of the United States nearest
to sections above specified," cannot well be hela to mean the
same thing as the words, in other acts, 1 from the public
lands of the United States nearest to tiers of sections above
specified, so much land in alternate sections or parts of sections designated by odd numbers." In one case the selection,
for purposes of indemnity, may be from any of the public
lands of the United States nearest to the tier of sections in
the place limits, in the other, the selection is restricted to oddnumbered sections within the indemnity limits, in neither
case, however, could lands be selected that had been previously withdrawn by competent authority from location, sale
or entry, or had been appropriated or sold by the United
States, or to which pre6mption or homestead rights had
attached.
In our judgment -omitting for the present any consideration of the rights alleged to have been acquired by individuals
under the homestead and pre~mption laws in the lands in
dispute, and looking at the case only as between the United
States and the Missouri-Kansas Company - there is no escape
from the conclusion that the even-numbered sections within
the indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road, not being set
apart by the act of 1863 for any specific purpose, and being
also nearest to the granted sections within the place limits of
the Missouri-Kansas Company, were not, by that act, reserved
to the United States within the meaning of the act of 1866,
and, therefore, - if no rights had attached to them before
their selection with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior -- could have been legally selected as indemnity lands for
that company
We say, prior to such selection and approval, because as to
lands which may legally be taken for purposes of indem-

UNITED STATES v.

ISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

Opinion of

375

the Court.

nity the principle is firmly established that title to them does
not vest in the railroad company, for the benefit of which
they are contingently granted, but, in the fullest legal sense,
remains in the United States, until they are actually selected
and set apart, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, specifically for indemnity purposes. It was so held
in Kansas racfic Railroadv Atckhon Railroad, 112 U. S.
414, 421, in which the court, referring to the above act of
1863, said in reference to the lands in the indemnity limits
"Until selection was made the title remained in the government, subject to its disposal at its pleasure.
The grant
to Kansas, as stated, conferred only a right to z.lect lands
beyond ten miles from the defendant's road, upon certain contingencies. It gave no title to indemnity lands in advance of
their selection." The same principle was announced in Barey v. Winona d St. Peter Railroad, 117 U. S. 228, 232,
where the court said. "In the construction of land grant acts
in aid of railroads, there is a well-established distinction observed between ' granted lands' and ' indemnity lands.' The
former are those falling within the limits specially designated,
and the title to which attaches when the lands are located by
an approved and accepted survey of the line of the road filed
in the Land Department, as of the date of the act of Congress.
The latter are those.lands selected in lieu of parcels lost by
previous disposition or reservation for other purposes, and the
title to which accrues only from the time of their selection."
So in Sioux City &c. Railroadv Chwago, -Milwaukee&c.Railway, 117 U. S. 406, 408 "1No titla to indemnity lands was
vested until a selection was made by which they were pointed
out and ascertained, and the selection made approved by the
Secretary of the Interior." But the fullest and most recent
expression of opinion upon this question by this court is in Wiscons' Central Railroad v Prwe County, 133 U. S. 496, 511,
where it was said "He [the Secretary] was required to determine, in the first place, whether there were any deficiencies in
the land granted to the company which were to be supplied from
indemnity lands, and, in the second place, whether the particular indemnity lands selected could be properly taken for

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

those deficiencies. _n order to reach a proper conclusion on
these two questions, he had also to inquire and determine
whether any lands in the place limits had been previously dispostd of by the Government, or whether any pre~mption or
homestead rights had attached before the line of the road was
definitely fixed. There could be no indemnity unless a loss
Until the selections were approved
was established.
there were no selections in fact, only preliminary proceedings
taken for that purpose, and the indemnity lands remained
unaffected in their title. Until then the lands which might
be taken as indemnity were incapable of identification, the
proposed selections remained the property of the United States.
The Government was, indeed, under a promise to give the
company indemnity lands in lieu of what might be lost by the
causes mentioned. But such promise passed no title, and,
until it was executed, created no legal interest which could be
enforced in the courts." To the same effect were the previous
eases of Grmnnell v Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 739, St. Paul &o.
Railroadv IYinona & St. Peter Railroad,112 U. S. 720, 731,
0edar Rap.ds & _Missourz River Railroad
Herrng, 110
U. S.27. As to the exception to this rule noticed in St. Paul &
Pamific Railroadv Northern Pacfic Railroad, 139 U S. 1,19,
it is sufficient to say that it has no application to the facts of this
case. In respect, therefore, of even-numbered sections within
the indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road. pregmption
and homestead rights may have legally attached before their
final selection as indemnity lands for the Missouri-Kansas
Company And rights thus attaching would not be displaced
by subsequent selection, and by issuing patents to the railroad
company
For the reasons stated, we adjudge that the selection of evennumbered sections within the indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road, to which rights of homestead and pre6mptmon laws
had not attached, to indemnify the Missouri-Kansas Company
for losses in its place limits, and the issuing to it of patents
therefor, was not without authority of law
We have indicated, however, that the question as to the
right of the Missouri-Kansas Company, for purposes of mndem-

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

377

Opinion of the Court.

nity, to select even-numbered sections within the indemnity
limits of the Leavenworth road, may, according to the averments of the bill - which the demurrer admits to be true have some connection with the rights acquired.by individuals
under the homestead and pre~mption laws. These averments
are That prior to July 26, 1866, and prior to the selection of
indemnity lands for the Missouri-Kansas Company, by thl
Secretary of the Interior - which selections, it is alleged, were
partially made on each of the respective days of August 20,
1872, July 29, 1874 and May 10, July 12 and December 26,
1876 - a large number of actual and bona fide settlers over
the age of twenty-one years, and citizens of the United States,
each thus and otherwise having all the qualifications required
by the homestead and pre~mption laws of the United States,
to obtain patents from the United States, each for a half
quarter section of said lands within ten miles of the located
line of the Leavenworth road, and each for one quarter section
of said lands outside of said ten-mile limits, but within twenty
miles of said line of road, claimed the right under those laws
to take the necessary proceedings and do the acts requisite to
obtain title, respectively, to such tracts of land, including most
of the lands in the patents mentioned, that for this purpose
sundry of such persons prior to July 26, 1866, and prior to
such selections, entered upon, occupied and improved, as required by said laws, a half quarter ection of land, within said
ten-mile limits, and others each entered upon, occupied and
improved, as required by the same laws, some each one-half
quarter section of land, and others each a quarter section of
such lands, that sundry of such persons did each do all the
acts required by, and in all respects complied with, the homestead and pregmption laws in due time to be entitled to occupy
said tracts of half-quarter and quarter sections, respectively,
and to receive patents therefor from the United States, that
said persons have ever since been,, and still are, each entitled
to receive a patent conveying to them respectively said tracts
of land so by each occupied and improved, including, most of
the lands in said patents mentioned that said persons have,
respectively, ever since so entering upon said lands continued

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to occupy and hold them, and are ready and willing, and offer
to do whatever may be required to procure a patent from the
United States, and that the defendants and those under whom
they claim title always well knew these facts, and none of
them ever took or had possession of any of said lands, but all
of them have been in the occupancy and possession of other
persons as aforesaid, claiming the right to obtain title thereto
from the United States.
The bill, after stating that the Government was unable, at
the commencement of the suit, to specify what portions and
tracts of land have been settled upon and occupied by actual
bona fide settlers, as aforesaid, for which patents should be
issued, and asking permission to make proof thereof, proceeds
to allege that the Missouri-Kansas Company on theday of
March, 1867, filed its map of definite location in the Department of the Interior; that the Commissoner of the General
Land Office, by letter under date of March 19, 1867, directed
the receiver and register of the local land-office at Humboldt,
Kansas, where the above-mentioned lands were subject to be
taken under the homestead and pregmption laws, to reserve
from sale, location or entry of any kind, all the land outside of
a line ten miles from the line-of location of the said MissouriKansas Company, and on and after April 3, 1867, the date of
the receipt of the above order at the local office, said lands
were by them thereafter unlawfully reserved from sale, location or entry, that the lands so withdrawn from sale, location
and entry, include numerous tracts described in the patents in
question, and that on and after April 3, 1867, said register
and receiver each u.wfully proclaimed and made known
their refusal- to permit any citizen or settler to do any act to
procure any title to any of such lands under any law, and they
each refused to do or permit to be done by any citizen or
settler any act requiring their official action or sanction to
procure a right or title to them.
Notwithstanding this - the bill further alleges - a large
number of citizens of the United States, each over the age of
twenty-one years, and otherwise having all the qualifications
required by said homestead and pre~mption laws, both prior

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

379

Opinion of the Court.

to and on and after April 3, 1867, and prior to any selection
of such lands by or in favor of the railroad company, each
went upon, occupied and improved half quarter and quarter
sections of land as aforesaid, and some of them each complied
with the homestead and preemption laws, and did every act
necessary to procure patents for the lands so occupied by them,
respectively, except only that the receiver and register would
not permit any act to be done with or by them officially for
the purpose of procuring title, that said persons, who have
made large and valuable improvements upon the lands so occupied by them, have continued ever since to occupy and claim
them and a right to perfect their respective titles, and have
always been and are ready and willing to do all acts required
to entitle them to patents, and that the Missouri-Kansas Company has sold or agreed to sell to various persons, named as
defendants herein, the lands so described, which are claimed
by such defendants in fee or under such agreement, or under
mortgages, but with notice of the rights of the United States
and of said claimants under the homestead and pregmption
laws.
If the facts are as thus alleged, it is clear that the MissouriKansas Company holds patents to land both within the place
and indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road which equitably
belong to bona ftde settlers who acquired rights under the
homestead and predmption laws, which were not lost by reason
of tfie Land Department having, by mistake or an erroneous
interpretation of the statutes in question, daused patents to be
issued to the company The case made by the above admitted
averments of the bill is one of sheer spoliation upon the part
of the company of the rights of settlers, at least of those whose
rights attached prior to the withdrawal of 1867, whether of
others, it is not necessary, at this time, to determine. It is
true that the bill is not as full as it might have been in respect
to the persons who are alleged to have acquired superior
rights under the homestead and pre~mption law, or as to the
particular tracts of land they claimed or occupied, or as to the
dates when such homestead and preemption rights respectively
accrued. And if application had been made for a bill of par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion, of the Court.

ticulars, it should have been granted. But there was no
specific objection to the bill upon that ground. The defendants rested the case upon a general demurrer for want of
equity, and it must be determined, in its present shape, upon
the theory that the facts are as alleged in the bill. The argument on this branch of the case, by counsel for the railroad
company, proceeds, in part, upon the assumption that there
was no such compliance with the homestead and pre~mption
laws as would give any of the settlers, referred to in the bill,
the rights claimed for them in this suit. Indeed, one of the
counsel insists that such settlers have no existence except in
the bill filed by the Government. And many other suggestions are made that depend upon matters of which we cannot,
upon this record, take cognizance. We must take the case to
be that which is presented by the bill, and give judgment
accordingly The defendants, by their demurrers, admit that
the settlers, referred to in the bill, did all that the laws of the
United States required in order to give them the rights which,
the bill alleges, belong to them, and in disregard of which the
patents in question were issued. If the railroad company
chose to invite a decision upon such a case, it must abide the
consequences.
That the case, as now presented, is one of equitable cognizance, we do not doubt. This question must be determined
with reference to the equity jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States, and not by reference to the remedies given by
the local law As to some of the lands, so far as we can
judge by the averments of the bill, the United States has a
direct interest in them. As to others, it is under an obligation to claimants under the homestead and pre~mption laws to
undo the wrong alleged to have been done by its officers, in
violation of law, by removing the cloud cast upon its title, by
the patents in question, and thereby enable it to properly
administer these lands, and to give clear title to those whose
rights, under those laws, may be superior to those of the railway company A suit, therefore, to obtain a decree annulling
the patents in question, so far as it is proper to do so, was
required by the duty the Government owed as well to the

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI &c. IAILWAY.

381

Opinion of the Court.

public as to the individuals who acquired rights, which the
patents, if allowed to stand, may defeat or embarrass.
In United States v San Jacnto Tn Co., 125 U: S. 273, 286,
which was a suit by the United States to set aside a patent
alleged to have been improperly issued, and in which the right
of the Attorney General to bring such a suit was denied, this
court held that such an action could be maintained where
it appeared that there was an obligation on the part of the
United States to the public, or to any individual, or where it
had any interest of its own. In the recent case of United States
v Beebe, 127 U. S. 338, 342, it was said. "And it may now
be accepted as settled that the United States can properly
proceed by bill in equity to have a judicial decree of nullity
and an order of cancellation of a patent issued in mistake, or
obtained by fraud, where the Government has a direct interest, or is under an obligation respecting the relief invoked,
Even if it had not been thus authoritatively settled,
it would have been difficult, upon principle, to reach any other
conclusion. The public domain is held by the Government as
part of its trust. The Government is charged with the duty
and clothed with the power to protect it from trespass and
unlawful appropriation, and, under certain circumstances, to
invest the individual citizen with the sole possession of the
title which had till then been common to all the people as the
beneficiaries of the trust. If a patent is wrongfully issued to
one individual which should have been issued to another, or if
two patents for the same land have been issued to two different individuals, it may properly be left to the individuals to
settle, by personal litigation, the question of right in which
they alone are interested. But if it should come to the knowledge of the Government that a patent has been fraudulently
obtained, and that such fraudulent patent, if allowed to stand,
would work prejudice to the interests or rights of the United
States, or would prevent the Government from fulfilling an
obligation incurred by it, either to the public or to an individual, which personal litigation could not remedy, there would
be an occasion which would make it the duty of the Government to institute, judicial proceedings to vacate such patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case before us, the bill avers that the patents, whose
cancellation is asked for, were obtained by fraud and imposition on the part of.the patentee, Beebe. It asserts that there
exists, on the part of the United States, an obligation to issue
patents to the rightful owners of the lands described in the
bill, that they cannot perform this obligation until these
fraudulent patents are annulled, and that they therefore bring
this suit to annul these fraudulent instruments, whose exist
ence renders the United States incapable of fulfilling their
said prior obligation." These principles equally apply where
patents have been issued by mistake, and they are specially
applicable where, as in the present case, a multiplicity of suits,
each one depending upon the same facts and upon the same
questions of law, can be avoided, and where a comprehensive decree, covering all contested rights, would accomplish
the substantial ends of justice.
Much was said at the bar as to the bearing upon the present
case of the decision in XYansas City &c. Railroad v The
Attorney General, 118 U. S. 682. That was a suit by the
United States to cancel certain patents issued to the MissouriKansas Company for lands selected, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior, to indemnify that company for
losses by reason of previous appropriations or sales of lands in
place limits. It appears from the record of that case that the
lands, so selected and patented, were odd-numbered sections
within the overlappng indemnity limits of the grants made
by the above acts of 1863 and 1866. As the Atchison and
Leavenworth Companies were equally entitled, under the act
of 1863, to obtain indemnity from the odd-numbered sections,
within their. respective overlapmjnng sndemnity limits; as the
Atchison Company assigned its rights, under the acts of 1863
and 18641, to the Missouri-Kansas Company; and as it was
shown that the Leavenworth Company had relinquished its
right, title and interest in the lands involved in that suit, to
the Missouri-Kansas Company; nothing, it would seem, stood
m the way of the selection of the above odd-numbered sections
as indemnity lands for the latter company; provided, the assignment by the Atchison Company to the Missouri-Kansas

UNITED STATES -v. MISSOURI &c. RAILWAY.

383

Opinion of the Court.

Company was valid for the purposes for which it was made,
and provided, also, the acts of 1863, 1864 and 1866 were to
be construed as -?n_pam materma, and having a single object;
namely, the building of one road down the. Neosho Valley to
the point of intersection with the Leavenworth road. The
court held that the acts were to be so construed, and that the
assignment by the Atchison Company, being approved by
the State of Kansas and by Congress in the passage of the act
of 1866, was valid. The right of the Missouri-Kansas Company
to indemnity from the odd-numbered sections within the overlapping indemnity limits of that company and of the Leavenworth Company was, therefore, upheld. There isnothing in
that decision to sustain the proposition that the Missouri-Kansas Company could obtain indemnity from the even-numbered
sections within the place limits of the Leavenworth road,
which, as we have seen, were reserved to the United States by
the act of 1863 for specific purposes, and, therefore, were excluded from the operation of the act of 1866. Nor does that
case determine the question as to the right of the MissouriKansas Company to indemnity from the even-numbered sections within the common indemnity limits of that and the
Leavenworth road to which claims of settlers had not attached
before their actual selection by proper authority for that company That right is sustained upon the grounds heretofore
stated in this opinion, which are entirely apart from those
upon which is based the decision in the other case in reference
to the odd-numbered sections there in dispute.
Only one other matter, referred to in the bill, is of sufficient
consequence to require notice. The demurrers were general
for the want of equity, and as what we have said leads to a
reversal of the decree, it is unnecessary to express an opinion
as to that part of the bill alleging that the Missouri-Kansas
Company had, before the bringing of -this suit, December 5,
1887, received patents for 252,929.14 acres, more or less, in
excess of what it was or is entitled to receive. We adopt this
course because the paragraph of the bill relating to this alleged
excess is not sufficiently full and explicit to justify a consideration, at this time, of the question it attempts to raise. Besides,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

the act of March 3, 1887, required an immediate adjustment
by the Secretary of the Interior of all unadjusted land grants
made in aid of the construction of railroads. 24: Stat. 556, c.
376. We are informed by the brief of one of the defendants'
counsel, that there has been a final adjustment of the grants
made for the benefit of the Missouri-Kansas Company, and that
such adjustment shows that there is a very large deficiency
in lands due to that company Whether the lands already
patented to the railroad company are in excess'of what it was
entitled to receive, and what effect such a fact, if established,
will have upon the present suit, are questions which can be
better determined after the issues between the parties are
fully made up and the evidence all taken.
The decree ts reversed and the cause remanded with directsons to overrule the several demurrers to the bill, and to
regunre answers from the defendants, and for other proceedings not znconststent with thm opm-ton.

FOWLER v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY
EQUITABLE TRUST COMPA1Y v. FOWLER.
APPEALS FROM3

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Noa. 32, 33.

Argued April 16, 17, 1891.-Decided October 26, 1891.

Upon the rendition of a decree, a petition and motion for a rehearing was
filed. At the succeeding term of the court an order was entered, grantmg a rehearing, which order was entered as of a previous term. The
record contained no order showing the continuance of the motion and
the petition for rehearing to the succeeding term. Held, that the presumption must be indulged, in support of the action of a court having
jurisdiction of the parties and the subject matter-nothing to the contrary affirmatively appearing -that the facts existed which justified its
action; and, therefore, that the court granted the application for a
rehearing at the previous term.
The question of usury in a loan made in 1873 to a citizen of fllinois by a
Connecticut corporation - the loan being evidenced by notes of the

