OCTOBER TERAL 1890.
Syllabus.

No usage of a national bank, nor any authority to carry on its
business through executive officers and agents, will relieve its
directors from the duty imposed upon them by law of diligently managing and diligently administering its affairs, and.
actively supervising the, conduct of its officers and agents.
There was here no diligence, no supervision, but absolute
inaction in respect to the affairs of the bank.
It was said at the bar that if such a rule be rigidly applied,
a gentleman of property and means would hesitate long before
accepting the position of director in a banking association.
-This could not be the result if gentlemen of that class, becoming directors of such institutions, would exercise anything like
the care and supervision. they or any other prudent, discreet
persons give to.the management of their own business. They
ought not, by accepting and hoiding the position of directors,
to give'assurance to stockholdcEN and depositors, whose inter-estshave been committed to tfir control, tfiat the bank is being
safely and honestly managed, without doing what prudent men
of business recognize as essential to make such an assurance of
value. A banking corporation, publicly avowing that its business was to -be wholly administered, by executive officers, and
that the directors would have nothing in fact to db with its
-management, would not long retain the confidence of stockholders and depositors, a fact which, of itself, shows that the
abdication by directors of their duties and functions not only
tends to defeat the object for the creation of such an institution, Vut puts in peril the interests of stockholders and depositors.

MoALLIST4R -v. UNITED STATES.
A.PPEAL FROM. T11.0 COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 238.

Argued March 24, 1891. -fecided May 25,1891.

A person appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, under the provisions of-the act of May 17, 1884, 23 Stat.
24, c. 53, § 3, to be the judge of the District Court of the District of

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
Alaska, is not a judge of a court of the United States within the meaning of the exception in section 1768 of the Revised Statutes, relating to
the tenure of office of civil officers, and was, prior to its repeal, subject
to removal before the expiration of his term of office by the President, in

the manner and upon the conditions set forth in that section.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M'r Samuel F Phillips for appellant.
Lenney was with him on the brief.

-ir

F 1D .D-e-

RYiCmmor filed a
Mb' JoTn S. Bla?,r and .M' Joseph'..
brief for appellant.
2r

Solicitor Generalfor appellee.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Ward McAllister, Jr., was appointed by President Arthur.
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to be District Judge for the District of Alaska. His commission, of
date July 5th, 1884, authorized and empowered him to execute
and fulfil the duties of that office according to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and to have and to hold
the said office, with all the powers, privileges and emoluments
to the same of right appertaining "for the term of four years
from the day of the date hereof, and until his successor shall
be appointed and qualified, subject to the conditions prescribed
by law" He took the required oath of office on the 23d day
of August, 1884.
On the 21st day of July, 1885, President Oleveland, in writing, "by virtue of the authority conferred upon the President
of the United States by section 1768 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States," suspended him from office until the
end of the next session of the Senate, and designated "Edward
J Dawne of Oregon, to perform the duties of such suspended
officer in the meantime, he being a suitable person therefor,
subject to all provisions of law applicable thereto." Dawne
took the prescribed oath of office on the 20th of August, 1885.
Subsequently, December 3d, 1885, the President, by virtue of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the same statute, suspended Dawne and designated Lafayette
Dawson of Missouri, to perform the duties of the suspended
officer, subject to all the provisions of law apulicable thereto.
Dawson took the required oath of office December 16, 1885.
Iaving been nominated and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appointed to this position, Dawson was
commissioned August 2, 1886, for the term of four years from
that date and until his successor should be appointed and
He
qualified, subject to the provisions prescribed by law
took the oath of office on the-3d of September, 1886.
Judge iMScAllister, without resistance, vacated the office on
the 28th ot August, 1885, and received, the salary up to and
including that date, after which he did not perform any of
the duties or exercise any of the funciions of the position.
The salary appropriated for the period between August 29,
1885, and March 12, 1886, inclusive, has not been paid to any
one and remains, in the Treasury to the credit of the proper
appropriation. Judge Dawson: has received the salary since
the latter date, except for the period between August 6,
1886, and September- 2, 1886, the salary for which has not
been paid to any one, .but remains in.the Treasury
The appellant has not instituted proceedings of any kind
other than this action to determine his right or title to the
office in question since August 28, 1885, on which day he
vacated his position.
IHe claims by his petition in this cae, "as due him for said
salaty from the 29th of August, 1885, to the 6th day of September, 1886, the sum of three thousand and seventy dollars."
Counsel for the. appellant state his contention to be (1) that
he was entitled to hold the office of District Judge for the
bistrict of Alaska .for four years from July 5, 1884, the date
of his commission, and until his successor was appointed and
q- ilified; or, (2), in the alternative, that his right to perform.
the duties and receive the emoluments of the office continued
until September 3, 1886, when Judge Dawson qualified, upon
which basis the -amount due him would be $304:1.09, or, (3),
that he is, in any event, entitled to the salary from the first
day after the end of the session of the Senate, August 7, 1S,6,

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to September 3, 1886, when his successor qualified, upon which
basis there would be due him $221.91.
Although the determination of the second of these propositions may, to some extent, involve a decision of the first one,
it is proper to remark that no question is distinctly raised by
the petition as to the right of the appellant to hold the District Judgeship for Alaska for the full term designated in his
commission, namely, four years and until his successor was
appointed and qualified. He sues only for the salary from the
29th of August, 1885, the day succeeding his suspension from
office, to the 6th day of September, 1886, a few days after
Dawson took the oath of office.
The government disputes the right of the appellant to
receive any part of the sum for which he brings suit. Its
defence rests upon § 1768 of the :Revised Statutes. That section and the one preceding it are as follows
"SEc. 1767. Every person holding any civil office to which
he has been or may hereafter be appointed by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, and who shall have become
duly qualified to act therein, shall be entitled to hold such
office during the term for which he was appointed, unless
sooner removed by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, or by the appointment, with the like advice and consent, of a successor in his place, except as herein otherwise
provided.
"SEc. 1768. During any recess of the Senate the President
is authorized, in his discretion, to suspend any civil officer
appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
except judges of the courts of the United States, until the end
of the next session of the Senate, and to designate some suitable person, subject to be removed, in his discretion, by the
designation of another, to perform the duties of such suspended
officer in the meantime, and the person so designated shall
take the oath and give the bond required by law to be taken
and given by the suspended officer, and shall, during the time
he performs the duties of such officer, be entitled to the salary
and emoluments of the office, no part of which shall belong to
the officer suspended. The President shall, within thirty days
VOL. cxLi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

after the commencement of each session of the Senate, except
for any office which in his opinion ought not to be filled, nornmate persons to fill all vacancies in office which existed at the
meeting of'the Senate, whether temporarily filled or not, and
also in the place of all officers suspended, and if the Senate
during such session shall refuse to advise and consent to an
appointment in the place of any suspended officer, then, and
not otherwise, the President shall nominate another person as
soon as practicable to the same session of the Senate for the
office."
These sections were brought forward from the act of M farch
.2, 1867, regulating the tenure of certain civil offices, and the
act of April 5, 1869, amendatory thereof. 14 Stat. 430, c.
154, 16 Stat. 6, c. -10. By an act of Congress approved March
3,1887, those sections, as well as sections 1769, 1770, 1771 and
1772, relating to the same subject, were repealed, subject to
the condition that the repeal should not affect any officer
theretofore suspended, or any designation, nomination or appointment, previously made tinder or by virtue of the repealed
sections. 24 Stat. 500, c. 353. As the appointment and suspension of Judge McAllister occurred prior to the passage of
the act of 1887, the present case is not controlled by its provisions, but depends upon the effect to be given to the sections
of 'the Revised Statutes above quoted, interpreted in the light
of the act establishing the court of which the appellant was
made judge in the year 1884. What may be the powers of
the President over territorial judges, now that section 1768 is
repealed, is a question we need not now discuss.
By an act passed May 17, 1884, 23 Stat. 24, c. 53, the
territory ceded to the United States by Rus ia, and known as
Alaska, -was constituted a civil and judicial district, with a
governor, attorney, judge, marshal, clerk and commissioners,
to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, and to hold their respective offices for
the term of four years, and until their successors were appointed and qualified. §§ 1, 9. The third section relates to
the court established by the act, and is in these words "That
there shall be, and hereby is, established a District Court for

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

said district, with the civil and criminal jurisdiction of District
Courts of the United States and the civil and criminal jurisdiction of District Courts of the United States exercising the
jurisdiction of Circuit Courts, and such other jhrisdiction, not
inconsistent with this act, as may be established by law; and
a District Judge shall be appointed for said district, who shall,
during his term of office, reside therein, and hold at least two
terms of said court therein in each year, one at Sitka, beginning on the first Monday in May, and the other at Wrangel,
beginning on the first Monday in 1ovember. He is also authorized and directed to hold such special sessions as may be
necessary for the dispatch of the business of-said court, at.such
times and places in said district as he may deem. expedientjl
and may adjourn such special session to any other time previous to a regular session. He shall have authority to employ
interpreters, and to make allowances for the necessary expenses
of his court." By the seventh section, the general laws of
Oregon, then in force, were declared to be laws of Alaska, so
far as the same were applicable, and not in conflict with the
provisions of that act or of the laws of the United States. By
the same section writs of error in criminal cases were to go to
the District of Alaska from the United States Circuit Court
for the District of Oregon in the cases provided. in chapter
176 of the laws of 1879 , the jurisdiction by that chapter conferred upon Circuit Courts of the United States being given
to the Circuit Court of Oregon, and the final judgments or
decrees of said Circuit and District Courts being reviewable
by this court as in other cases.
In view of these and other provisions of that act, it is clear
that the District Court for Alaska was invested with the
powers of a District Court and a Circuit Court of the United
States, as well as with general jurisdiction to enforce in
Alaska the laws of Oregon, so far as -they were applicable
and were not inconsistent with the act and the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
But is the court, thus established for Alaska, one of the
"Courts of the United States within the meaning of section
1768 of the Revised Statutes2 If it be, then the President

OCT4.-ER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

had no authority, by that section, to suspend Judge McAllister,
and his claim to salary, up to, at least, the confirmation by the
Senate of the nomination of Dawson, is well founded. If it be
not, then the judge of the Alaska court is not of the class excepted by that section, and being a civil officer, appointed by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate, was within the
very terms of the clause authorizing his suspension by the
IPresident, during the recess of the Senate.
An affirmative answer to the question just stated could not
well be given upon the theory that a Territorial court is one
of those mentioned in article three of the Constitution, declaring that the judicial power of the United States shall be
vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as
Congress may from time to time establish, the judges of which
hold their offices during good behavior, receiving, at stated
times, for their services, a compensation that cannot be diminished during their continuance in office, and are removable
only by impeachment. We say this because numerous decisions of this court are inconsistent with that theory To these
decisions we will now advert.
The leading case upon the subject is Amnemwea Insurance
Company v Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 546, decided in 1828. The
question -there was as to the validity of a decree passed by a
court, consisting of a notary and five jurors, created by a
statute of the Territorial legislature of Florida, whose powers,
under certain acts of Congress, extended to all rightful subjects
of legislation, subject to the restriction that their laws should
not be inconsistent with the laws and Constitution of the
United States. On one side it was contended, that, under
those acts, jurisdiction was vested exclusively in the Superior
Courts of the Territory created by the acts of Congress establishing a Territorial government in Florida. Chief Justice
MarshaRl, speaking for the court, said "It has been contended,
that by the Constitution the judicial power of the United States
extends to all cases of admiralty'and maritime jurisdiction, and
that the whole of this judicial power must be vested in 'one
Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as Congress shall
from time to time ordain and establish.' Hence it has been

McA-LLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

argued that Congress cannot vest admiralty jurisdiction in
courts created by the Territorial legislature. We have only
to pursue this subject one step further, to perceive that this
provision of the Constitution does not apply to it. The next
sentence declares that 'the judges, both of the supreme and
inferior courts, shall hold their offices during good behavior.'
The judges of the Superior Courts of Florida hold their offices
for four years. These courts, then, are not Constitutional
courts, in which the judicial power conferred by the Constitution on the general government can be deposited. They are
incapable of receiving it. They are legislative courts, created
in virtue of the general right of sovereignty which exists, in
the government, or in virtue of that clause which enables
Congress to make all needful rules and regulations respecting
the territory belonging to the United States. The jurisdiction
with which they are invested is not a part of that judicial
power which is defined in the third article of the Constitution, but is conferred by Congress, in the execution of those
general powers which that body possesses over the Territories
of the United States. Although admiralty jurisdiction can
be exercised in the States in those courts only which are
established in pursuance of the third article of the Constitu-

tion, the same limitation does not extend to- the Territories.
In legislating for them, Congress exercises the combined powers of the general and of a state government."
Equally emphatic is the decision in Benner v Porter, 9
How 235, 242, 243. The court, speaking by Mr. Justice Nelson, said that the distinction between the Federal and state
jurisdictions, under the Constitution of the United States, has
no foundation in these Territorial governments, that "they
are legislative governments, and their courts legislative courts,
Congress, in the exercise of -its powers in the organization and
government of the Territories, combining the powers of both
the Federal and state authorities." Again, after citing the
judicial clause of the Constitution, (Art. 3, sec. 1,) the court
said "Congress must not only ordain and establish inferior
courts within a State, and prescribe their jurisdiction, but the
judges appointed to administer them must possess the cousti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tutional tenure of office before they can become invested with
any portion of the judicial power of the Union. There is no
exception to this rule in the Constitution. The Territorial
courts, therefore, were not courts in which the -judicial power
conferred by the Constitution on the Federal government could
be deposited. They were incapable of receiving it. as the tenure of the incumbents was but for four years. 1 Pet. 546.
Neither were they organized by Congress under the Constitution, as they were invested with powers and jurisdiction which
that body were incapable of conferring upon a court within
the limits of a State."
The subject next received consideration in Clinton v Englelrecht, '13 Wall. 434, 447, where the question was whether a
law of a Territorial legislature, prescribing the mode of obtaining panels of grand and petit jurors was obligatory upon the
District Courts of the Territory The Supreme and District
ourts of the Territory supposed that they were courts of the
United States, and that they were governed in the selection
of jurors by the acts of Congress, and not by the statutes
passed by the Territorial legislature. In its discussion of the
general subject this court, speaking by Chief Justice Chase,
said "The judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory are
appointed by tlhe President under the act of Congress, but
this does not make the courts they are authorized to hold
courts of the United States. This was decided long since in
The Amc n~rc Insurance Company v Canter, 1 Pet. 546, and
in the later case of Benner v Porter,9 How 235. There is
nothing in the constitution which would prevent Congress
from conferring the jurisdiction which they exercise, if the
judges were elected by the people of the Territory and commissioned b y the governor. They might be clothed with the
same authority to decide all cases arising under the Constitution and laws, of the United -States, subject to the same revision. Indeed, it hardly can be supposed that the earliest
Territorial courts did not decide such questions, although
there was no express provision to that effect, as we have
already seen, until a comparatively recent period. There is
no Supreme Court of the United States, nor is there any Dis-

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

trict Court of the United States, in the sense of the Constitution, in the Territory of Utah. The judges are not appointed
for the same terms, nor is the jurisdiction which they exercise
part of the judicial power conferred by the Constitution or
the General Government. The courts are the legislative
courts of the Territory, created in virtue of the clause which
authorizes Congress to make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the Territories belonging to the United States."
In ornbuckle v Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, 655, the inquiry
was as to whether or not the practice, pleadings, forms and
modes of proceedings of the Territorial courts, as well as their
respective jurisdictions, were intended by Congress to be left
to the legislative action of the Territorial assemblies, and to
such regulation as the courts themselves might adopt. This
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said "The acts of
Congress respecting proceedings in the United States courts
are concerned with, and confined to, those courts, considered
as parts of the Federal system, and as invested with the judicial power of the United States expressly conferred by the
constitution, and to be exercised in correlation with the pres
ence and jurisdiction of the several state courts and governments. They were not intended as exertions of that plenary
municipal authority which Congress has over the District of
Columbia and the Territories of' the United States.
As before said, these acts have specific application to the
courts of the United States, which are courts of a peculiar
character and jursdiction."
In Good v 2fartin, 95 U S. 90. 98, the language of the
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Clifford, was "Territorial
courts are not courts of the United States within the meaning of the Constitution, as -appears by all the authorities."
So in Reynolds v United States, 98 U. S. 145, 154, Chief
Justice Waite, speaking for the whole court, said "By section 1910 of the Revised Statutes the District Courts of the
Territory have the same jurisdiction in-all cases arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States as is vested -in
the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, but this
does not make them Circuit and District Courts of the United

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

States. We have often so decided. They are courts of the
Territories, invested for some purposes with the powers of the
courts of the United States." Again, ii City of Panama,
101 U. S. 453, 460 "It is competent for Congress to make
provision for the exercise of admiralty jurisdiction, either
within or outside of the States, and in organizing Territories
Congress may establish tribunals for the exercise of such
jurisdiction, or they may leave it to the legislature of the
Courts of this kind,
Territory to create such tribunals.
whether created by an act of Congress or a territorial statute, are not, in strictness, courts of the United States, or in
other' words, the jurisdiction with which they are invested is
not a part of the judicial power defined by the third article
of the Constitution, but is conferred by Congress in the execution of the general powers which the legislative departmtnt
possesses, to make all the needful rules and regulations respecting the public territory and other public property"
These cases close all discussion here as to whether territorial
courts are of the class defined in the third article of the Constitution. It must be regarded as settled that courts in the
Territories, created under the plenary municipal authority
that Congress possesses over the Territories of the United
States, are-not Courts'of the United States created under the
authority conferred by that article. And there is nothing in
conflict with this view in Page v Burnshne, 102 U. S. 664,
where it wds held that section 858 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, relating to the competency as witnesses of
parties to actions -by or against executors, administrators, or
guardians, applied to the courts of the District of Columbia as
fully as to the Circuit and District Courts of-the United States.
That conclusion was reached, not because the courts of the
District of Columbia were adjudged to be of the class in which
the judicial power of the United States -was vested by the
Constitution, but because, all the acts relating to the competency of witnesses, when. construed together, indicated that
that section of the Revised Statutes applied to the courts of
the District of Columbia.
For the.reasons we have stated it must be assumed that the

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

words "Judges of the courts of the United States," in section
1768, were used with reference to the recognized distinction
between courts of the United States and merely territorial
or legislative courts.
This view, it is contended, is not supported by the history
of Congressional legislation relating to the organization of
courts m the Territories. We do not assent to this proposition. The acts providing for courts in the Territories of
Orleans, Iowa, Minnesota New Mexico, Utah, Colorado, Nevada, Dakota and Arizona,1 fixed the .tenure of office for
judges in those Territories, respectively, at four years. Those
providing for courts in the Territories of Missouri, Arkansas,
Florida, Oregon, Washington, Nebraska, Kansas, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming and Oklahoma 2 fixed fhe tenure of judges at
four years, with the addition, in some -cases, of the words,
"unless sooner removed," in others, of the words, "unless
sooner removed by the President," or, "and no longer," or
"and until their successors shall be appointed and qualified,"
or "unless sooner removed by the President with the consent
of the Senate." Of-course, Congress would not have assumed,
in the acts providing for courts in the Territories named, to
limit the terms of the judges, in the modes indicated, if it had
supposed that such courts were -courts of the United States of
the class defined in the first section of article three of the
CQnstitution, the judges of which hold, beyond the power of
Congress to provide otherwise, during good behavior. Nor is
the view that courts in the Territories are legislative courts,
as distinguished from courts of the United States, weakened
1 Orleans (1804), 2 Stat. 284, c. 38, § 5; Iowa (1838), 5 Stat. 238, c. 90, §
9; Minnesota (1849), 9 Stat..406, c. 121, § 9- New Mexico (1850), 9 Stat.
449, c.49, § 10; Utah (1850), 9 Stat. 455, c. 51, § 9; Colorado (1861), 12 Stat.
174, c. 59, § 9- Nevada (1861), 12 Stat. 212, c. 83, § 9; Dakota (1861), I
Stat. 241, c. 86, § 9; and Arizona (1863), 12 Stat. 665, c. 56, § 2.
2 Missouri (1812), 2 Stat. 746, c. 95, § 10; Arkansas (1819), 3 Stat.495, c.
49, § 7 Florida (1822), 3 Stat. 657 c. 13, § 8, Oregon (1848), 9 Stat. 326, c.
177, § 9- Washington (1853), 10 Stat. 175, c. 90, § 9- Nebraska (1854), 10
Stat. 280, c. 59, § 9; Kansas (1854), 10 Stat. 286, c. 59, .§27, Idaho (1863),
12 Stat. 811,-c. 117, § 9; Montana (1864), 13 Stat. 88, c. 95, § 9- Wyoming
(1868), 15 Stat. 180, c. 235, § 9- Oklahoma (1890), 26 Stat.85, c. 182, § 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

by the circumstances that Congress, in a few of the acts providing for territorial courts, fixed the terms of the office of
the judges of those courts during "good behavior." 1 As the
courts of the Territories were not courts the judges of which
were entitled, by virtue of the Constitution, to hold their
offices during good behavior, it was competent for Congress to
prescribe the tenure of good behavior, as in the acts last referred to, or to prescribe, as in the other acts above referred
to, the tenure of four years and no longer, or four years unless
sooner removed, or four years unless sooner removed by'the
President, or four years unless sooner removed by the President with the consent of the Senate, or four years and until-a
successor was appointed and qualified. The significance of
these enactments, as well as of the acts of 1867 and 1869, and
of section 1768 of the Revised Statutes, is in the fact that
Congress has uniformly proceeded upon the theory that the
judges of territorial courts were merely legislative courts, and
were not entitled, by virtue of their appointment and the Constitution of the United States, to hold their offices during good
behavior, unless it was so declared in the respective acts providing for the organization of such courts. That Congress
when providing a government for Alaska so regarded them is
apparent from the fact that the act of May 17, 1884, fixed
the tenure of the office of the judge of the District Court of
Alaska at four years, and until his successor was appointed
and qualified. This provision did not repeal section 1768 of
the Revised Statutes, for it was not inconsistent with that
section. So that the Alaska act must be taken as qualified by
that section which confers upon the President the power of
suspension.
It is, however, suggested that if the words "except judges
of the courts of the United States," in section 1768 of the Revised Statutes, embraces only those that are called constitutional courts, as distinguished from legislative courts, it was
INorthwest Territory (1787), 1 Stat. 51, note a, Mississippi (1798), 1
Stat. 550, c. 28, § 3, Indiana (1800), 2 Stat. 59, c. 41, § 2, Michigan (1805),
2 Stat. 309, c. 5, § 2;. Illinois (1809), 2 Stat. 514, c. 13,§ 2; Alabama (1817),
3 Stat. 372, c. 59, § 2; Wisconsin (1836), 5 Stat. 13, c. 54, § 9.

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

entirely unnecessary to introduce them into the statute, because, in respect to the judges of the former, the Constitution
itself makes the exception. This view is plausible and is not
without some force, and yet it is not sufficient to justify the
conclusion that Congress regarded judges of territorial courts
as upon the same footing with judges of the courts of the
United States. The acts of 1867 andi 1869 inaugurated a new
policy 'in reference to civil officers appointed by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate. The presumption must be
that Congress did not overlook the numerous decisions of this
court, holding that territorial courts were not courts of the
United States, and the words "judges of the courts of the
United States," were used in those acts, as well as in section
1768, simply out of abundant caution, and to remove all doubt
as to the object of Congress,-by giving an assurance that there
was no attempt to confer upon the President the power of suspenzm-in respect to such judges.
An elaborate argument, displaying much thought and extended research upon the part of counsel, has been made in
support of the proposition that, upon general principles, lying
at the foundation of our institutions, the judicial power in the
Territories, exercised as it must be for the protection of life,
liberty and property, -ought to have the guaranties that are
provided elsewhere within the political jurisdiction of the
nation for the independence and security of judicial tribunals
created by Congress under the third article of the Constitution.
Wia have no occasion to controvert the soundness of this view,
so far as it restsoon grounds of public policy But we cannot
ignore the fact that while the Constitution has, in respect )to
judges of courts n' which may be vested the judicial power of
the United States, secured their independence, by an express
provision that they may hold their offices during good behavior,
and receive at stated times a compensation for their services
that cannot be diminished during their continuance in office,
no such guaranties are provided by that instrument in respect
to judges of courts created by or under the authority of Congress for a-Territory of the United States. The absence from
the Constitution of such guaranties for territorial judges was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

no doubt due to the fact that the organization of governments
for the Territories was but temporary, and would be super
seded when the Territories became States of the Union. The
whole subject of the orgamzation of territorial courts, the tenure by which the judges of such courts shall hold their offices,
the salary they receive and the manner in which they may be
removed or suspended from office, was left, by the Constitution, with Congress under its plenary power over the Territories of the United States. How far the exercise of that
power is restrained by the essential principles upon which our
system of government rests, and which are embodied in the
Constitution, we need not stop to inquire, though we may
repeat what was said in 3-ormon Church v Unted States, 136
U. S. 1, 44 "Doubtless Congress, in legislating for the Territories, would be subject to those fundamental limitations in
favor of personal riglts which are formulated in the Constitution and its amendments, but these limitations would exist
rather by inference, and the general spirit of, the Constitution.
from which Congress derives all its powers, than by any
express and direct application of its provisions." It is only
necessary in this case to say that those principles and limitations are not violated by a statute prescribing for the office of
judge of a territorial court a tenure for a fixed term of years,
or authorizing his suspension, in the mode indicated in section
1768, and his ultimate displacement from office, after suspension, by the appointment of some one in his place, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate.
It has been suggested that the conclusion reached in this
case is not in harmony with some observations of Chief Justice Marshall in .larbury v MacZison, 1 Cranch, 137, 162. It
was thqre said "Where an officer is removable at the will of
the executive, the circumstance which completes his appointment is of no concern, because the act is at any time revocable, and the commission may be arrested, if still in the
office. But when the officer is not removable at the will of
the executive the appointment is not revocable, and cannot-be
annulled. It has conferred legal rights which cannot be
resumed." Again "Mr. MAarbury, then, since his commission

XcALLISTER v. UN ITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

[as a Justice of the Peace in the District of Columbia] was
signed by the President, and sealed by the Secretary of State,
was appointed, and as the law creating the office gave the
officer a right to hold for five years, independent of the executive, the appointment was not revocable, but vested in the
officer legal rights, which are protected by the laws of his
country" Further" "It [the office of Justice of the Peace in
the District of Columbia] has been created by special act of
Congress, and has been secured, so far as the laws can give
security, to the person appointed to fill it, for five years." 2
Stat. 107, c. 15, § 11. Nothing in those observations militates,
in any degree, against the views we have expressed. On the
contrary, the Chief Justice asserted the authority of Congress
to fix the term of a Justice of the Peace in the District of
Columbia beyond the power of the President to lessen it by
his removal, or by withholding his commission after his appointment has been made, pursuant to ail act of Congress, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and after the
commission has been signed by the President and sealed by
the Secretary of State. So, in the present case, while Congress fixed the term of office of the District Judge for Alaska
at four years, and until his successor qualified, it did so without modifying, and, therefore, in view of the statute then in
force, giving the President power to suspend, in his discretion,'any civil officer (other than judges of the courts of the
United States) appointed by him, with the advice and consent
of the Senate, until the end of the next session of that body.
The decision in the present case is a recognition of the complete authority of Congress over territorial offices, in virtue
of "those general powers which that body possesses over the
Territories of the United States," as .iarbury v -Madisonwas
a recognition of the power of Congress over the term of office
of a Justice of the Peace for the District of Columbia.
It was insisted, at the bar, that a territorial judge, appointed and commissioned for a given number of years, was
entitled, of right, to hold his office during that term, subject
only to the condition of good behavior. This view was not
rested upon any specific clause of the Constitution, but was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

supposed to be justified by the genius and spirit of our free
institutions, and the principles of the common law This
argument fails to give due weight to the fact that, in legislating for the Territories, Congress exercises "the combined
powers of the general and of a state government." Will it
be contended that a State of the Union might not provide by
its fundamental law, or by legislative qnactment not forbidden
by that law, for the suspension of one of its judges, by its
governor, until the end of the next session of its legislature 2
Has-Congress .under "the general right of sovereignty" existtug in the government of the United States as to all matters
committed to its exclusive control, including the -making of
needful rules and regulations respecting the Territories of the
United States, any less power over the judges of the Territories than a State, if unrestrained by its own organic law,
might exercise over judges of its. own creation 2 If Congress
may-

and it is conceded that it may-

prescribe a given

number of years as the term of office of a territorial judge,
we do not perceive why it cannot provide that his appointment shall be subject to the condition, that he may be suspended by the President, until the end of the next session of
the Senate, and displaced altogether by the appointment of
some one in his place, by and with th-e advice and consent
of that body The principles of life tenure and good behavior
established for judges of courts, in which the Constitution
vests the judicial power of the United States, "to be exercised
in. correlation with the presence and jurisdiction of the several
state courts and governments," has no application to courts
that are incapable of receiving the judicial power conferred by
the Constitution, and which cease to exist, as territorial or
legislative courts, when the Territory becomes a State.
Judge McAllister clais the salary appertaining to the
office of judge of the District Court for Alaska from the date
he was suspended uitil Dawson was commissioned under an
appointment made with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The statute expressly forbids the allowance of this claim, for
it provides that the officer who may be suspended, in virtue of
its provisions, shall not, during the suspension, receive the

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, Gray, Brown, JJ.

salary, but that the salary and the emoluments of the office
shall belong to the person performing in his stead the duties
of the office. Judge McAllister accepted the office in question
subject to the provisions of section 1768, because, not being
inconsistent with,.it was not repealed by, the Alaska act; andas there is no ground for holding the statute to be invalid, and
as his office was not of the class excepted from the operation
of its provisions, there is no foundation for his claim to the
salary
It is insisted that.the appellant is entitled to claim, at least,
the salary from the end of the session of the Senate, August.
7th, 1886, until September 3d, 1886, on which day Dawson
took the oath of office under his commission of date August
2d, 1886. This contention rests upon the ground that Dawson's authority to act as judge under his appointment in place
of Dawne, suspended, ceased when the Senate closed its session of 1885-6. It is a sufficient answer to this suggestion to
say that when the Senate confirmed the nomination of Dawson - which must have been prior to August 2d, 1886- and
his commission was signed and sealed, the suspension of Judge
McAllister became permanent. If the Senate had adjourned
without acting upon that nomination a different question
would have been presented.
The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition j(22 C. C1. 318) is

Afflriec.
MR. JUsTIcE FILD, with whom concurred MR. JusTicE GAY
and MR.JusTice.BRoww, dissenting.
I am unable to agree with the majority of the court "inthe
judgment in this case, or in the reasoning upon which that
judgment is reached-; and I will state briefly the grounds of
my conclusion.
On the 5th of July,. 1884, the appellant, Mr. McAllister,
was appointed by the President, "by anvd with the advice and
consent of the Senate, District Judge for the District of
Alaska, to execute and fulfil the duties of that office accord-

OCTOBER TERMA, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion

Field, Gray. Brown, JJ.

ing to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and to

have and hold the said office with all the powers, privileges and
emoluments of the same of right appertaining," for the term
of four years from that date, and until his successor should be
appointed and qualified, subject' to the conditions prescribed
by law
The office to which the appellant was thus appointed was
one of great power and responsibility The District Court
over which he was to preside was invested not only with the
civil and criminal jurisdiction usually exercised by the District Courts of the United States, but also with the jurisdiction
in such cases exercised by the Circuit Courts of the United
States. 23 Stat. c. 53, secs. 3 and 9. The duties which devolved upon him, therefore, required qualities of a high order.
It is not even suggested that he did not possess them.
Ile took the oath of office on the 23d of August following
the appointment, and entered upon its duties, which he discharged until the 28th of August, 1885. During this period
no complaint was made of his want of ability as a judge, or of
official integrity, or of the manner in which he performed his
duties. But on the 21st of July, 1-85, and so far as appears
by the record, without -notice to him, or any complaint being
made against him, and without any indication of what was
forthcoming, he was summarily suspended from his office by
the President, in the following notice
" EXEuTVE Mi SIoN,

"WAs=nnGToN, D. C., JTiy 21, 1885.
"Sm. You are hereby suspended from the office of District
Jndge for the District of Alaska, in accordance.with the terms
of section 168 of the Revised Statutea of the United States,
and subject to all provisions of law applicable thereto.
" GFovER CLEVELANmD.
"To the Hon. Ward McAllister, Jr., District Judge for the
District of Alaska, Sitka, Alaska."

It was the President's will that this incumbent should cease
to act, and so far as the record discloses, that was all there was

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, Gray, Brown, JJ.

of it. His will was deemed sufficient, in his estimate of the
law, to take a judicial officer charged with the great duties
mentioned, a judge of a court of record created by the United
States, from the exercise of his judicial functions. On- the
same day he progeeded to fill the office by the appointment of
Edward J Dawne of Oregon, to discharge its duties until the
end of the next session of the Senate.
There have been several instances where thd power to
remove a judicial officer of a court of the United States in one
of the Territories has been exercised by the President, but
the legal rigtft to do so has never been brought directly to-the
test of judicial decision in this court. The two cases which
presented the question are United States v GitArte, 17 How
284, and U]nited States v FisLer,109 U S. 143, but they went
off on other grounds. In the first case, the Chief Justice of
Minnesota Territory had been removed before his term of
office had expired. Two years afterwards he applied for-a
mandamus against the Secretary of the Treasury to require
him to pay his salary This was refused, as there had been
no appropriation to pay the claim. In the second case, the
claimant had been Chief Justice of Wyoming Territory At
the time of appointment his salary was $3000 per annum,
which was subsequently reduced to $2000. He brought suit
for the difference, but he had accepted the reduced salary in
full compensation for his services, and on that ground his suit
failed.
My objection to the power exercised by the President in
this case arises from the nature of the judicial office, when
held by a judge of a court of record, and from its conflict with
the tenure of the office conferred by the law under which the
appellant was appointed. 1st. The idea essentially appertainlug to and involved in the jidicial office is that its exercise
must be free "from restraint, without apprehension of removal
or suspension or other punishment for the honest and fearless
discharge of its functions within the sphere of the jurisdiction
assigned to it. No one m my judgment, under our system of
law, can be appointed a judge of a court of record having
jurisdiction of civil and criminal cases, to hold the office at
VOL.ACX=-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion Field, Gray Brown,

J.

the pleasure and will of another. No such doctrine has been
maintained in England since the statute of 13 William III,
chapter 2, "for the further limitation of the Crown and better
securing of the rights and liberties of the subject," passed in
1700, one of the great acts which followed the revolution of
1688. Previously to that period most of the judges of the
higher courts held their offices during the pleasure of the
Crown. Although in some instances their commissions were
issued to them during good behavior, yet it was within the
power of the Crown to prescribe the tenure of the office.
This power exerted a most baleful influence upon the administration of justice, destructive of private rights and subversive
of the liberties of the subject. In political accusations, to use
the language of Mr. Justice Storv,, it must often have produced, what the history of the times shows actually occurred,
"the most disgraceful compliances with the wishes of the
Crown, and the most humiliating surrender of the rights of
the accused." DeLohne, in his History of the English Constitution, states that before the year 1688 subserviency to
the Crown was so general in state prosecutions that it ceased
almost to attract public indignation.
After the statute of 13 William III, which Chancellor Kent
speaks of as in the nature of a fundamental charter, imposing
further limitations upon the Crown and adding fresh securities to the rights and liberties of the subject, commissions to
judges of the courts of record could no longer be held at the
pleasure of the Crown, durante bene placmto, but they continued durmg the good behavior of the judges, quamdiu beve
,egessennt. They were only removable afterwards by the"
King, upon the address of both houses of Parliament, although
their commissions expired with the death of the reigning
monarch. This latter condition was changed by the act of
1 George III, so that thereafter their commissions should not
then expire and that full salaries should be secured during
their continuance. This change was produced upon the special recommendation of the King, who on thatoccasion made
a declaration, which Story says is worthy of perpetual remembrance, that "he looked upon the independence and upright-

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, Gray, Brown, JJ.

ness of the judges as essential to the impartial administration
of justice, as one of the best securities of the rights and liberties of his subjects, and as most conducive to the honor of the
Crown." 2 Story on Const. § 1608.
Since that period no judge of a court of record in England
except the Lord Chancellor (and of this exception we will
presently speak) could be removed or suspended from his office
by the Crown, except upon the address of both houses of Parliament, a limitation upon the exercise of the power which
always secures to the accused a notice of the grounds of complaint, and a hearing upon their truth and sufficiency This
condition of permanency during good behavior in the office of
judges of the courts of record is now a part of the settled public law of England. The great statutes referred to were passed
long before our Revolution, and qualified the existing law of
the English Kingdom and its dependencies as to the conditions
upon which the judicial office in courts of record could be held.
The law thus modified then constituted a part of the public or
common lawof this country
Whoever is here clothed with
a judicial office, which empowers him to judge in any case
affecting the life, -liberty or property of the citizen, cannot be
restrained from the fearless exercise of its duties by any apprehension of removal or suspension, in case he should come
athwart the will or pleasure of the appointing power. I cannot
believe that under our Constitution and system of government
any judicial officer invested with these -great responsibilities
can hold his office subject to such arbitrary conditions. In my
judgment good behavior during the term of his. appointment
is the only lawful and constitutional condition to the.retention
of his office.
The tenure of the Lord Chancellor's office is somewhat different, and though dependent*more or less on the pleasure of
the Crown as to the duration of his term, he is secured absolute independence in his judicial duties. Originally the Lord
Chancellor was an ecclesiastic, the- keeper of the king's conscience, and exercised power in his name, chiefly in ecclesiastical matters. When the necessity of his being an ecclesiastic
was changed he was the King's counsellor as before, and is

OCTOBER TERM 1890.
Dissenting 'Opinion. Field, Gray, Brown, JJ.

now a member of his cabinet, and generally retires from office
with his associates upon the change in his party's ascendency
He has both a political and judicial character, participating in
the public measures of government and performing judicial
functions in the Court of Chancery and in the House of. Lords
when sitting as a court of appeals. But no interference is ever
attempted, or 'Would be tolerated, with his independence as a
judicial officer, by reason of the political functions which he
also discharges. The public -sense of the necessity of such
independence now prevailing in England is as powerful as the
most positive enactment. There is no such union of political
and judicial functions in any officer in this country, and the
relation of the Chancellor in England to the government in no
respect affects the importance of an independent tenure of
office by judges of courts of record in this country during the
prescribed period of their terms.
Whenever this principle has been disregarded it has aroused
deep and general indignation. Among the repeated injuries
and usurpations of the King of Great Britain, which our
fathers declared just ground 'for separation from the mother
country, was that he had "made judges dependent upon his
will alone for the tenure of their office and the amount and
payment of their salaries." This was one of the wrongs
which our fathers submitted to "a candid world " as justifying
the people of the United States in withdrawing from the
English nation and establishing for themselves a new form of
government.
When the Constitution of the United States was framed,
the Convention took special care to prevent the possibility of
the commission of such a wrong, under the new government
to be created, by embodying in that instrument the declaration that "the judges, both of the supreme and inferior courts,
shall hold their offices during good behavior, and shall, at
stated times, receive for their services a compensation, which
shall not be diminished during their continuance in office."
Art. Il, see. 1.
This provision was only the expression of a principle that
had become the established law of all English-speaking people.

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, Gray Brown, JJ.

'When the Constitution was under discussion before the country previous to its adoption this article received special attention. The writers of the Federalist published several articles
on the subject, which were widely read and discussed. One
of them, No. 78, written by Mr. Hamilton, is directed especially to the tenure of office of the judges. iHe says "The
standard of good behavior for the continuance in office of the
judicial magistracy, is certainly one of the most valuable of
the modern improvements in.the practice of government. In
a monarchy it is an excellent barrier to the despotism of the
prince, in a republic it is a no less excellent barrier to the
encroachments and oppressions of the representative body
And it is the best expedient which can be devised in any government to secure a steady, upright and impartial adniinistration of the laws."
And again, after stating that the judiciary is the weakest of
the three departments of the government, and that though
oppression may now and then proceed from the courts of justice, he says -" The general liberty of the people can never be
endangered from that quarter-; I mean so long as the judiciary
remains truly distinct from both the legislative and the executive. For I agree, that 'there is no liberty, if the power of
judging be not separated from the legislative and executive
powers.' And it proves, in the last place, that as liberty can
have nothing to fear from the judiciary alone, but would have
everything to fear from its union with either of the other
departments, that as all the effects of such union must ensue
from a dependence of the former on the latter, notwithstanding a nominal and apparent separation, that as, 'from the
natural feebleness of the judiciary, it is in continual jeopardy
of being overpowered, awed -or influenced by its co-ordinate
branches; and that as nothing can contribute so much to
its firmness and independence-as permanency in office, this
quality may therefore be justly regarded as an indispensable
ingredient in its constitution, and, in a great measure, as the
citadel of the public justice and the public security"
It is contended that because courts established in the Territories are not the courts to which the Constitution has refer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion

Field, Gray, Brown, JJ.

ence they are not therefore courts of the United States in any
sense, and that their judges are bereft of that independence
which is deemed so essential in the judges of the courts
under the Constitution. But it seems to me that in this contention the character of the judicial office is entirely overlooked. The courts for the Territories, though not permanent
like the courts referred to in the Constitution, are c6urts of
the United States, they are created by the laws of the United
States, and are designed to give that security and protection
in the enforcement of the private rights of the inhabitants of
the Territories which the courts in the States are empowered
to give to their citizens, beside exercising some of the powers
of the Federal courts. Their judges are appointed by the
same authority, by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, and are secured their compensation
from the Treasury of the United States. They enforce the
laws of the United States, and from their judgment and
decree an appeal lies to this court. Although differing in the
period prescribed for their terms, they are clothed with many
of the powers 'and perform many of the duties which the.
judges of the United States appointed within the States perform
there. The same learning, integrity and ability are required
of them., the same necessity for independence and freedom
from apprehension of executive or legislative interference with
the performance of their duties exists with reference to them
as exists with reference to all judges appointed under the Constitution. It is true that in many cases the two kinds of
courts, those existing in the States created under the Constitution and those created by Congress and existing in the Territories, are mentioned, and they are distinguished. Thus in
Amemcan Insurance Co. v Canter, 1 Pet. 511, Chief Justice
Marshall, speaking of' the courts of the Territory of Florida,
says "They are not ' constitutional courts,' but are 'legislative courts,' created in virtue of the general right of sovereignty which exists in the government, or in virtue of that
clause which enables Congress to make all needful riles for
the territory of the United States." All tins decision affirms
is that the .judges of those courts do not derive their existence

McALLISTER v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, Gray, Brown, JJ.

from the Constitution, for if they did they would hold their
office during good behavior for life, and the term of it could
not be otherwise limited by Congress.
Similar language is also found in other cases, some of which
are cited in-the opinion of the court, but this does not show
that they are not courts of the United States, though created
for the Territories. The fact that they exercise a peculiar
jurisdiction and are created for the Territories does not change
their character as courts of the United States.
In Hunt v Palao,4 How 589, a judgment had been rendered in the Court of Appeals of the Territory of Florida, in
the year 1844. After Florida became a State its legislature
ordered the records of that court to be transferred to the
custody of the clerk of the Supreme Court of the State.
Speaking of this subject, Chief Justice Taney said. "The Territorial Court of Appeals was a court of the United States,
and the control of its records therefore belongs to the general
government, and not to the state authorities, and it rests with
Congress to declare to what tribunal these records and proceedings shall be transferred, and how these judgments shall be
carried into execution, or reviewed upon appeal or writ of error."
When a Territory becomes a State, the records of the courts
of the Territory are transferred to the new State courts and
to the Federal courts respectively, the judicial proceedings
existing in the courts of the Territory being continued by
federal law in the respective state and federal courts, according to the questions. involved and the citizenship of the parties.
2d. But assuming that judicial offices in the Territories may
be held subject to the will of the creating power, that is,.
assuming that Congress may provide that the incumbent may
be removed or suspended from his office during the prescribed
term at the pleasure of the President, the statute creating the
office of District Judge of Alaska and prescribing his term has
not attached to it any such conditions. It declares that the
District Judge shall hold his office for the term of four years
and until his successor is appointed and qualified. To assert
that the President can remove the incumbent or suspend him
from his office without the direction or permission of Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting- Opinion: Field, Gray, Brown, JJ.

-gress, is to affirm that he is superior in that respect and may
disregard its enactments at pleasure. And more, it is to affirm
that Congress cannot prescribe the term of an office created
by it, which no one would pretend.
The President placed the authority, which he assuried to
exercise in suspending the appellant from his office, upon section 1768 of the Revmsed Statutes. The part of that section
upon which reliance is had is as follows
"SEc. 1768. During any recess of the Senate the President

is authorized, in his discretion, to suspend any civil officer appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
except judges of the courts of the United States, until the end
of the next session of the Senate, and to designate some suitable person, subject to be removed, in his discretion, by the
designation of another, to perform the duties of such suspended officer in the meantime, and the person so designated
shall take the oath and give the bond required by law to be
taken and given by the suspended officer, and shall, during
the time he performs the duties of such officer, be entitled to
the salary and emoluments of the office, no part of which shall
belong to the officer suspended."
I do not understand how the language in this section,
"except judges of the courts of the United States," can
be construed to- apply only to judges of courts created
under the ConstitutiQn. Why should the exception, if thus
limited, have been inserted at al
It is not pretended, and
never has beeli, that such judges could be suspended or removed by the President. It is very plain to me that it was
intended to meet the position, which had been advanced in
some quarters, that judges of the courts of the United States
in the Territories were subject to be removed or suspended by
the President equally with other officers. Otherwise there is
no assignable cause for its insertion.
For these reasons, therefore, first, that the judicial office in
question was to be held by the incumbent during good behavior, for the term prescribed, and second, that section 1768,
upon which the suspension was founded, expressly excepts the
judges of the courts of the United States from suspension by

WINGARD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the President, and that exception includes all judges of all courts
established under the laws of the United States, whether those
courts perform their judicial duties within the States or within
the Territories, I dissent from the judgment of the majority
of the court in thia case.
I am authorized to state that MR. JusTiCE GnAY and MR.
JUSTICE Buowx concur in this dissent.

WINGARD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
lo.319.

Submitted March 24,1891.-Decided May 25,1891.

'The same questions are presented here that were determined m McAllister v.
United States, ante, 174, and it is affirmed on the authority of that case.

Tins appeal brought up for review a judgment by the Court
of Claims sustaining a demurrer to a petition filed by the appellant, in which he claimed as due him from the United States
for salary as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Washington the sum of $1964.55, from December
11, 1885, to August 5, 1886, inclusive, and $1543.03, from August 24, 1886, to February 27, 1887, inclusive, in all, $3507.58.
The petition showed that on the 27th day of February,
1883, appellant was duly appointed by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, and commissioned to be, Associate
Justice of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington,
for the term of four years from that date, and until his successor should be appointed and qualified, with all the powers,
privileges and emoluments appertaining to that office, that
he took the oath of office May 11, 1883, and entered upon,
executed and fulfilled the duties of such office; that he was
at all times, from and after May 11, 1883, until February 27,
1887, ready and willing to perform those duties, that on the
3d of December4IS85, President Cleveland transmitted to hini
,a communication, wtich declared that-he )yas thereby "suspended-froi-the- office of Associate Justice-of, thA-Supreme

