LAU OW DEW, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

LAU OW BEW, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 12. Original. Submitted November 2,1891. -Decided

November 16,1891.

Only questions of gravity and importance should be certified to this court
by the Circuit Courts of Appeals, under the provisions of the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 6.
Whether the Chinese restriction acts, in the light of the treaties between
the United Statbs and China, apply to a Chinese merchant, domiciled in
the United States, who temporarily leaves the country for purposes of
business or pleasure, ansmo revertendi, is such a question of gravity and
importance.
Wan S ang v. United States, 140 U. S. 424, explained.

THE case is stated m the opinion.
.Mr J Hubley Ashton- and Mf

Thom=8 D Riordan, for

the petitioner, submitted on their brief.
No one opposing.
M . CHIEF
court.

JUSTI E

FULLER delivered the opunon of the

This is an application, upon notice, for a writ of certiorarz.
requiring the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit to' certify to this court for its review and determination the case of Lau Ow Bew v. The United States in
which a final judgment was rendered by that court against
the applicant on the 7th of October, 1891. The application
is accompanied, in accordance with subdivision 3 of Rule 37.
by a certified copy of the entire record of the case.
The petition states that the applicant is a person of the
Chinese race and a natural-born subject of the Emperor of
China, who is now, and for the past seventeen years has been,
a resident of the United States and of no other country, having
his domicil in the city of Portland and State of Oregon, where
during all that time, he has been a merchant engaged in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

wholesale and importing business, that on the 30th of September, 1890, he left the United States on a temporary visit
to his relatives in China, with the intention of returning as
soon as possible, and that he did return on the steamship
Oceanic, which arrived at San Francisco on the 11th of August, 1891.
That at the time of his departure he procured satisfactory
evidence of his status in the United States as a merchant,
under the regulations in that regard of the Treasury Department, adopted July 3, 1890, and on his return he presented his
proofs to the collector of the port of San Francisco, who
acknowledged their sufficiency and admitted that petitioner
was entitled to the protection of the treaty between the United
States and China, concluded July 28, 1868, 16 Stat. 739, and
the supplemental treaty concluded November 17, 1880, 22
Stat. 826, and the act of Congress entitled "An act to execute
certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese," approved May
6, 1882, 22 Stat. 58, c. 126, as amended July 5, 1884, 23 Stat.
115, c. 220, but refused to permit petitioner to land, on the
sole ground that he had failed and neglected to produce the
certificate of the Chinese government mentioned in section six
of the aforesaid act, as amended.
The petition further states that thereupon, on the 14th of
August, 1891, petitioner filed a petition in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of California
for a writ of habeas corpus to obtain his discharge from detention, alleging, among other things, that he was a merchant
domiciled as aforesaid, and that it was claimed by the masterof the steamship that he could not be allowed to land under
the provisions of the sixth section of the act aforesaid as
amended, and that the master of the steamship produced
petitioner before the court on August 15, 1891, and made
return to the writ that he held the petitioner in his custody
"by direction of the customs authorities of the port of San
Francisco, California, under the provisions of the Chinese
restriction act."
An intervention was filed on behalf of the United States,
alleging that petitioner was lawfully d-* ,,ined because he had

LAU OW BEW, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

failed to produce to the collector of customs, or to any other
authorized officer, the certificate of identification required by
the act of 1882 as amended by the act of 1881. The return to
the writ and the intervention were traversed by the petitioner.
The case was thereupon heard and determined upon the
following agreed statement of facts
"1st. That the said Lau Ow Bew is now on board the SS.
Oceanic, which arrived in the port of San Francisco, State of
California, on the 11th day of August, A.D. 1891, from Hong
Kong, and is detained and confined thereon by Captain Smith,
the master thereof.
"2d.. That the said passenger is now and for-seventeen years
last past has been a resident of the *United States and domiciled therein.
"3d. That during all of said time the said passenger has
been engaged in the wholesale and importing mercantile business in the city of Portland, State of Oregon, under the firm
name and style of Hop Chong & Co.
"4th. That said firm is worth $40,000, and said passenger
has a one-fourth interest therein, in addition to other properties.
"5th. That said firm does a business annually of $100,000
and pays annually to the United States government large sums
of money, amounting to many thousands of dollars as duties
upon imports.
"6th. That on the 30th day of September, A.D. 1890, the
said passenger departed from this country temporarily on a
visit to his relatives in China, with the intention of returning
as soon as possible to this country, and returned to this country
"bythe steamship Oceanic on the 11th day of August, A.D. 1891.
"7th. That at the time of his departure he procured satisfactory evidence of his status in this cquntry as a merchant,
and on his return hereto he presented said proofs to the collector of the port of Sai Francisco, but said collector, while
acknowledging the sufficiency of said proofs and admitting
that the said passenger was a merchant domiciled herein, refused to permit the said passenger to land on the sole ground
that the said passenger failed and neglected to produce the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

certificate of the Chinese government mentioned in section
of the Chinese Restriction Act of May 6, 1882, as amended bythe act of July 5, 1884."
On the 14th of September, 1891, the Circuit Court rendered:
An
judgment that the petitioner be remanded to custody
opinion was filed by the learned District Judge holding the
Circuit Court, from which it appears that the judgment in the
case proceeded upon the ground of the controlling effect of the
decision of this court in Wan Shrng v. United States, 140 U. S.
424. From this judgment -an appeal was prosecuted to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which, on the 7th of October, 1891,
aeclined t4 certify any question of law in the case to this court
for instruction, and affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court.
By section five of the act of Congress, entitled, "An act to
establish Circuit Courts of Appeals and to define and regulate
in certain cases the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States, and for other purposes," approved March 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 826, 828, c. 517, it is pro.vided that appeals or writs of
error may be taken from the District Courts or from the existing -Circuit Courts directly to this court in certain specified
cases, including any case in which the constitutionality of anylaw of the United States, or the validity or construction of
anytreaty made under its authority, is drawn in question, and
by section six, that the Circuit Courts of Appeals established
by the act shall exercise appellate jurisdiction to review final
decisions in the District and Circuit Courts an all other than
the previously enumerated cases, unless otherwise provided by
law, and that the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts
of Appeals shall be final in all cases in which the jurisdiction
is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or
controversy being aliens and citizens, of the United States or
citizens of different States ;-as, also, in all cases arising under
the patent laws, the revenue laws, and -the criminal laws, and
in admiralty cases, and that the Circuit Courts of Appeal&
-may.at any time certify to.this court any questions or propoiitions of law concerning which such court desires instruction,
fOr pyoper decision, whereupon this court i nay either give its.
instruction on the questions and propositions certified or may-

LAU OW- BEW, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

require the whole record and cause to be sent up for consideration, and thereupon decide the whole matter in controversy
as if it had been brought here for review by writ of error or
appeal. And it is further provided by that section that any
case in which the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
made final may be required by this court, by certiorart or
otherwise, to be certified to it for review and determination,
as if it had been brought here on appeal or writ of error.
It is evident that it is solely questions of gravity and importance that the Circuit Courts of Appeals should certify to us
for instruction, and that it is only when such questions are
involved that the power of this court to require a case in which
the judgment and decree of the Court of Appeals is made final,
to be certified, can be properly invoked. The inquiry upon
this application, therefore, is whether the matter is of sufficient
importance in itself, and sufficiently open to controversy, to
make it the duty of this court to issue the writ applied for in
order that the case may be reviewed and determined as if
brought here on appeal or writ of-error.
Assuming, for the purposes of the present motion, that the
Court of Appeals had jurisdiction, it will be perceived from
what has been stated that the disposition of the case involves
the application of the Chinese restriction acts to Chinese merchants domiciled in the United States.who temporarily leave
the country for purposes of business or pleasure, antmo revert&ndi, in the light of the treaties between the government of
the United States and that of China.
By the treaty between the United States and China of 1868,
all Chinese subjects were guaranteed the right, without conditions or restrictions, to come, remain in, and leave the United
States, and.to enjoy all the privileges, immunities and exemptions enjoyed by the citizens of the most favored nation. 16
Stat. 740, Art. vi. The treaty of November 17, 1880, put no
limitation upon this right, so far as Chinese other than laborers
were concerned. 22 Stat. 826. To what extent was any limitation intended by the acts of 1882 and 1884, drawn into consideration here, bearing in mind the general rule that repeals
by implication are not favored 9 The sixth section of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of 1882, as amended by the act of 1881, 22 Stat. 58, 230" :i..
115, provided that "every Chinese person, other than a laborer,
who may be entitled by said treaty or this act to come within
the United States, and who shall be about to come to the
United States, shall obtain the permission of and be identified
as so entitled," in the mode stated, and the certificate therein
provide4 for is made the sole evidence, as to those to whom
the section is applicable, to establish a right of entry into the
United States. Manifestly, the question whether this section
should be construed, taken with the treaties, to apply to Chinese merchants already domiciled in the United States, and to
whom no uintention of voluntarily surrendering that domicil
can be imputed, is one of great gravity and importance.
The status of domicil in respect of natives of one country
domiciled in another is a matter of international concern, and
the acts of Congress are to be considered, in view of general
-and settled, principles upon that subject, in arriving at a conlusion as to the operation, upon the treaties with China, designed by Congress in those enactments. Was it intended that
commercial domicil should be forfeited by temporary absence
at the domicil of origin, and to subject resident merchants to
loss of rights guaranteed by treaty if they failed to produce
from the domicil of origin that. evidence which residence in
the domicil of choice may have rendered it difficult, if not
impossible, to obtain 2 We refrain from particular examination of the point involved, and refer to it only so far as necessary to indicate its importance.
In the case of Wan Shrng v Unsted States, 140 U. S. 424,
Wan Shing came to this country at the age of sixteen, remained
two years, and then returned to China, where he passed seven
years. Upon his own evidence he appeared to be not a merchant but a laborer, and -not to have gained a commercial
domicil in this country; but if he had, his-departure at the age
of eighteen and his absence for seven years, without any apparent intention of returning,, brought him, in our judgment,
within the category of those required to produce the certificate
9f identification of the government of his origin or of which
he was..the subject. Upon.'that state of facts, the Precise

MARSHALL v. HOLMKES.
Syllabus.

inquiry arising on this petition did not present itself for definitive disposition, and we do not feel justified under the circumstances in declining to afford the opportunity for its full
discussion, as now specifically pressed upon our attention.
While, therefore, this branch of our jurisdiction should be
exercised sparingly and with great caution, we are of opinion
that the grounds of this application are sufficient to call for
Let te wmeof certorart sue as prayed.
our interposition.

MfA.RSHALL v. HOLMES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT OF THE
STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 28. Argued April 6, 7, 1891. -Decided

November 9, 1891.

Numerous judgments at law were rendered in the state court in favor of
the same party, against the same defendant, in each case, the judgment
was for less than five hundred dollars, but the aggregate of all the judgments was over three thousand dollars. After the close of the term, the
defendant against whom the judgments were rendered, filed a petition in
the same court for the annulment of the judgments upon the ground
that, without negligence, laches or other fa-ilt upon the part of the petitioner, they had been fraudulently obtained. Subsequently the petitioner
filed a proper petition and bond for the removal of the case into the Circuit Court of the United States. The application was refused and the
state court proceeded to final judgment. Held,
(1) Upon the filing of a proper petition and bond for the removal of a
cause pending in a state court, such cause, if removable under the
act of Congress, is, in law, removed so as to be docketed in the
Circuit Court of the United States, notwithstanding the state
court may refuse to recognize the riaht of removal,
(2) As all the judgments in law were held in tho same right and against
the same parties, and as their validity depended upon the same
facts, the defendant therein, in order to avoid a multipjicity of
actions, and the vexation and costs arising from numerous executions and levies, was entitled to bring one suit for a final decree
determining the matter in dispute that-was common to all the parties; and as, under the rules.of equity, such a suit could be brought
in a court of the United States, the aggregate amount of all the

