1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

451 U. S.

BECKER ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-918. Decided May 29, 1981
On application for a stay, pending appeal to the Court of Appeals, of the
District Court's judgment ordering applicants to turn over certain videotapes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which had issued summonses for production of the videotapes, a temporary stay previously
granted by the Circuit Justice is continued pending further action
by the full Court. Applicants, who claimed depreciation, investment
credits, and other expenses on their income tax returns with respect to
the videotapes, agreed to permit an IRS agent to play and inspect the
videotapes in their presence, but refused to leave the videotapes in his
possession. Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 62 (d), applicants sought a stay of the District Court's order in the IRS' summons enforcement proceedings, but both the District Court and the
Court of Appeals denied the stay. Since no tax deficiency has yet been
assessed by the IRS and the Government has not gathered sufficient
information to invoke its authority for summary seizure of assets, it is
probable that four Justices of this Court would vote to grant certiorari,
after the Court of Appeals' decision on the merits, to determine whether
the IRS may, pursuant to its summons authority, acquire and indefinitely retain material which is not merely books and records relevant
for purposes of determining the correctness of the taxpayer's income tax
return, but which is also property that the taxpayer uses for the production of income. Moreover, the balance of equities tips heavily in
favor of applicants, and the decisions below not to grant a stay may
have been based on the view that this was an ordinary tax summons
enforcement proceeding.
JUsTICE REHNFQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants claimed depreciation, investment credits, and
other expenses on their federal income tax returns with respect to certain videotapes. The Internal Revenue Service
issued summonses directing the production of the videotapes
and, on the appointed date, applicants appeared before the
IRS agent with the videotapes. They agreed to permit the
agent to examine, play, and otherwise inspect the videotapes

BECKER v. UNITED STATES
1306

Opinion in Chambers

for as long as desired, but only in their presence, and declined
to leave the videotapes in the possession of the agent. Not
satisfied with such an arrangement, the IRS brought an enforcement proceeding under 26 U. S. C. §§ 7402 (b) and
7604 (a).
The United States District Court for the Eastern District
of California ordered applicants to turn over the videotapes
as demanded by the IRS. Applicants filed notices of appeal
and moved the District Court to stay its judgment pending
appeal. They offered to post a supersedeas bond and argued
in their memorandum in support that they were entitled to
a stay under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 62 (d) upon
posting of such bond. This Rule provides:
"Stay upon appeal. When an appeal is taken the appellant by giving a supersedeas bond may obtain a stay
subject to the exceptions contained in subdivision (a) of
this rule. The bond may be given at or after the time
of filing the notice of appeal or of procuring the order
allowing the appeal, as the case may be. The stay is
effective when the supersedeas bond is approved by the
court."

The exceptions mentioned in Rule 62 (a) are injunction cases,
receivership cases, and patent infringement cases in which an
accounting has been ordered. The District Court denied the
motion for a stay and the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit denied a subsequent motion for a stay.
Applicants thereupon filed the instant application for a
stay pending appeal of the District Court judgment to the
Court of Appeals. I granted a temporary stay and called
for a response from the United States. That response has
now been received and, upon examination of it and the relevant authorities, I have decided to continue the stay pending
further action by the full Court.
Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 81 (a) (3), the
Federal Rules apply "to proceedings to compel the giving of

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

451 U. S.

testimony or production of documents in accordance with a
subpoena issued by an officer or agency of the United States
under any statute of the United States except as otherwise
provided by statute or by rules of the district court or by
order of the court in the proceedings." In Donaldson v.
United States, 400 U. S. 517, 528-529 (1971), however, we
ruled that Rule 81 (a) (3) and prior language in United States
v. Powell, 379 U. S. 48, 58, n. 18 (1964), to the effect that the
Rules apply in summons enforcement proceedings were "not
intended to impair a summary enforcement proceeding so
long as the rights of the party summoned are protected and
an adversary hearing, if requested, is made available." When
gathering testimony, the need for summary enforcement of
IRS summonses is clear and justifies dispensing with Federal Rules which might interfere with that task. The question here is whether the Government's enforcement order
includes more than mere testimony, as broadly as we have
construed the word "testimony" in cases such as United
States v. Euge, 444 U. S.707 (1980); United States v. Dionisio, 410 U. S. 1 (1973); United States v. Mara, 410 U. S.
19 (1973); and Schmerber v. California,384 U. S.757 (1966).
If the effect of the summons enforcement proceeding is to
take what is potentially income-producing property of the
respondent rather than merely require him to produce evidence, the need to proceed summarily is less clear, as is the
justification for dispensing with otherwise applicable provisions of the Federal Rules.
If the Federal Rules do apply, it should be noted that
whether the automatic stay provisions of Rule 62 (d) or the
discretionary stay provisions of Rule 62 (c) apply will have
no effect on applicants' case once its merits are decided by
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, before which it
is presently 15ending. While I am not fully convinced by the
submissions of either the applicants or the Government on
this point, I do not think it can be said that applicants' position is totally unwarranted. The Government devotes only

BECKER v. UNITED STATES
1306

1309

Opinion in Chambers

one page of its nine-page response to this contention, and
its treatment of the subject is not altogether persuasive. The
language of Rule 62 (d) seems clear, and the enumerated
exceptions do not include tax summons enforcement proceedings. Expressio unius est exclusio alterius. Contrary to the
Government's assertion, an order enforcing an IRS summons
is not the "equivalent" of a mandatory injunction-and hence
within the exceptions to Rule 62 (d)-simply because the
coercive power of the court is invoked. The only authority
directly in point supports applicants' contention. United
States v. Neve, 80 F. R. D. 461 (ED La. 1978). But cf.
FTC v. TRW, Inc., 202 U. S. App. D. C. 207, 210, n. 3, 628
F. 2d 207, 210, n. 3 (1980) (dictum criticizing District Court
for granting stay as of right under Rule 62 (d) in Federal
Trade Commission subpoena enforcement proceeding).
The question before me in my capacity as Circuit Justice,
however, is not simply whether applicants were entitled to a
stay from the District Court or from the Court of Appeals
pursuant to Rule 62 (d), but rather whether I should now
continue in effect a stay previously entered to protect the
ultimate jurisdiction of this Court in the event that applicants' case is decided adversely to them by the Court of Appeals, and they petition this Court for certiorari. See 28
U. S. C. § 1651 (a). It is at this point that the Rules of
Civil Procedure, the summons enforcement proceedings of the
Internal Revenue Code, and the extent of my authority under
28 U. S. C. § 1651 (a) do not nicely mesh. Once the Court
of Appeals decides the merits of the case, it will not be relevant to either party whether a stay should have been granted
pending appeal, and Rule 62 (d) by its terms speaks only to
such stays. Thus, the Rule 62 (d) question will "wash out"
after decision on the merits by the Court of Appeals, unless
applicants can persuade at least four Justices of this Court
that the issue is one "capable of repetition, yet evading review" and therefore not moot. Yet if a decision of the Court
of Appeals is favorable to the applicants on the merits of

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

451 U. S.

their claim, it would make the unavailability of any stay
pending appeal pursuant to the posting of an appropriate
supersedeas bond a hardship on them and others similarly
situated. This hardship may be of some weight in deciding
whether to grant a stay pending decision by the Court of
Appeals and a subsequent petition for certiorari by applicants in the event the decision is unfavorable to them.
The question applicants present before the Court of Appeals, as I understand it, is whether a taxpayer who has
offered to make available to the IRS on conditions unsatisfactory to the Service videotaped material which is not merely
"evidence" but is also "property" with which applicant conducts business, may be compelled by the IRS to relinquish
possession of the property. Title 26 U. S. C. § 7602 (1) confers authority on the IRS to examine "any books, papers, records, or other data which may be relevant or material" to an
inquiry into a taxpayer's liability. The videotapes do not
appear to be such records or data; rather, they are applicants'
copies of the asset itself. Under 26 U. S. C. § 7606 the IRS
can examine objects subject to tax such as these videotapes.
Requiring applicants to relinquish possession of the asset
subject to tax as opposed to records concerning that asset
would seem to be tantamount to ruling that a taxpayer must
upon demand relinquish possession of a building to the IRS
simply because he claimed depreciation on the building. The
Government relies on United States v. Davey, 543 F. 2d 996,
999 (CA2 1976), which held that the IRS could compel production of taxpayer's financial records which were on computer tape, but the computer tape in that case was not the
asset in question but rather simply the form in which records
were kept.
I am by no means convinced of the correctness of the position of either party, and neither the District Court nor the
Court of Appeals entered more than a minute order by way
of explanation of their action in denying a stay. Obviously,
as pointed out in Donaldson, the IRS must retain its au-

BECKE
1306

v. UNITED STATES

Opinion in Chambers

thority to conduct summary enforcement proceedings if large
amounts of properly taxable income are not to evade taxation. But in this case no deficiency has been assessed by the
IRS, and the summary provisions for the seizure of actual
assets which are then authorized by statute have not yet become available to the Government. This is not the typical
case with which the Court has dealt in the last few years,
culminating in United States v. LaSalle National Bank, 437
U. S. 298 (1978), where the Government is seeking to inspect
purely evidentiary or testimonial material-from which the
taxpayer would derive no monetary benefit by retaining it in
his possession-and the taxpayer denies the Government access to that evidence on grounds of privilege or the like. Obviously the taxpayer cannot simply write his own ticket as
to the manner in which relevant nonprivileged evidence shall
be made available to the IRS; but it seems to me that until
the Government has gathered sufficient information to invoke its summary seizure authority, there are probably four
Justices of this Coiirt who would vote to grant certiorari to
determine whether the IRS may, pursuant to its summons
authority, acquire and indefinitely retain material which is
not merely books and records relevant for purposes of determining the correctness of the taxpayer's income tax return,
but which is also property which the taxpayer uses for the
production of income.
The balance of equities tips heavily in favor of applicants.
If a stay is not granted, applicants will be required to turn
over their videotapes and their appeal may well become moot,
particularly if the IRS completes its investigation prior to
decision by the Court of Appeals. Much of the harm applicants contend will result from turning their videotapes over
to the IRS will not be remediable if a stay is denied here
and applicants eventually prevail. Applicafits will lose the
use of their videotapes as a sales promotional device for the
time they are in the possession of the IRS.

1312

BECKER v. UNITED STATES
Opinion in Chambers

451 U. S.

Injury to the Government, on the other hand, seems to me
minimal in this case. Applicants have already agreed, at
the request of the IRS, to extend the statute of limitations.
They have made the videotapes available to the Service for
examination, and have indicated no hesitancy to continue to
do so, albeit on terms which the Government regards as
unsatisfactory.
My conclusions, however, are not entertained without considerable doubt. It is, as the Government has pointed out
in its response, highly unusual for a Circuit Justice to stay
an order of the District Court while an appeal from that order
is pending in the Court of Appeals. Were I convinced that
either the District Court or the Court of Appeals thought it
had the usual discretion to grant the stay in question, but
nonetheless declined to exercise that discretion, the proverbial
"stay equities" might well fall on the other side of the line.
The decisions below not to grant a stay, however, may have
been based on the view that this was an ordinary tax summons enforcement proceeding, a view which at least four
Justices of this Court may not share. For these reasons I
shall continue the stay in effect, subject to the posting of
the supersedeas bond approved as to form and amount by
the District Court, until the question may be reviewed at the
next regularly scheduled Conference of the full Court on June
4, 1981.
It is so ordered.

