UNITED STATES v. KURTZ.
Statement of the Case.

defendants, it was at the same time circumscribed as to the
United States by the specific provisions relating to the particular subject, conceding that under the Revised Statutes
the remedy by certificate was open to be availed of by the
United States.
Certifate dismi8med.

UNITED STATES v. KURTZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 530. Submitted October 13, 1896. - Decided October 26, 1S96.

A clerk of a Circuit Court who Is directed by the court to keep a criminal
final record book, in which are to be recorded indictments, informations, warrants, recognizances, judgments and other proceedings, in
prosecutions for violating the criminal laws of the United States, is not
entitled, in computing folios, to treat each document, judgment, etc., as
a separate instrument, but should count the folios of the record as one
instrument continuously from beginning to end.
A clerk's right to a docket fee, as upon issue joined, attaches at the time
such issue is in fact joined, and is not lost by the subsequent withdrawal of the plea which constituted the issue; and this rule applies to
cases in which, after issue joined, the case is discontinued on nol. pros.
entered.
When a list of the jurors, with their residences, is required to be made by
the order or practice of the court, and to be posted up in the clerk's
office or preserved in the files, and no other mode of compensating the
clerk is provided, it may be charged for by the folio.
The clerk is also entitled to a fee for entering an order of court directing
him as to the disposition to be made of moneys received for fines, and
for filing bank certificates of deposit for fines paid to the credit of the
Treasurer of the United States.

Tins was a petition by Kurtz, who was clerk and commissioner of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, for fees alleged to have been earned by him in both
capacities.
The case resulted in the allowance of a large number of
disputed items, and a final judgment in favor of the petitioner in the sum of $165.10. The government appealed, and
VOL. cLxrv---4

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

assigned as error the allowance of certain items specifically
set forth in the opinion.
.Mr.
Assistant Atorney General Dodge for appellants.
-Mr. Charles C. Lancasder for appellee.
MR. JUsTIOE BROWx

delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The first assignment of error is taken to the allowance
to the petitioner of clerk's fees for recording in the final
record books the entries and proceedings in various criminal
cases, consisting of the indictment or information, warrants,
recognizances, judgments and other proceedings, as required
by rule of court, at fifteen cents per folio. It seems that
these records were made by him in compliance with a rule of
the Circuit Court adopted November 3, 1890, requiring the
clerk to keep a criminal final record book, in which should be
recorded "the indictment or information, and all recOgnizances, warrants, process, (except writs of subpcena and proceedings thereunder,) judgments, and other proceedings in
every ptosecution for violation of the criminal laws of the
United States." For making up these records the clerk
charged a fee of fifteen cents per folio in pursuance of the
eighth subdivision of Rev. Stat. ยง 828, which entitles him to
this amount "for entering any return, rule, order, continuance, judgment, decree or recognizance, or drawing any
bond, or making any record, return or report." The only
objection was to the clerk's method of computing folios by
treating each document, judgment, order and direction of
the court as a separate instrument for the. enumeration of
folios, instead of counting the folios of the record as one
instrument continuously from beginning to end.
The assignment is well taken. By his method of computation the clerk charges for each entry, many of which are less
than a dozen words in length, as for one hundred words.
This may be proper where the charge is made under the
first clause of the paragraph "for entering any return, rule,

UNITED STATES v. KURTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

order," etc., upon the journal of the court, but the evident
intent of the statute is that for the purpose of making up the
record as a history of the case the entire record shall be
taken as one instrument.
2. The next item to which the government objects is to
the allowance for making dockets, indexes, taxing costs, etc.,
in nine cases, in which defendants at first pleaded not guilty,
and at a later day, with no steps or proceedings intervening,
withdrew such plea, pleaded guilty, and judgment was entered upon such plea.
In this connection section 828 provides as follows:
"For making dockets and indexes, issuing venire, taxing
costs and all other services, on the trial or argument of a
cause where issue is joined and testimony given, three
dollars."
For like services "in a cause where issue is joined, but no
testimony is given, two dollars."
For like services "in a cause which is dismissed or discontinued, or where judgment or decree is made or rendered without issue, one dollar."
The argument of the government is that as the plea of not
guilty, which constituted the issue, was withdrawn, and a plea
of guilty subsequently entered, upon which judgment was
rendered, the case should be treated as one in which no issue
was ever joined, and that the condition in which the case
stands when finally disposed of is the criterion for the fee to
be charged -in other words, if the case be finally disposed of
upon a plea of guilty, regardless of the issue previously joined,
the clerk is only entitled to the fee which would have been
allowed him if no issue had ever been joined.
While we have held that a docket fee is not taxable until
the case is finally disposed of, United States v. MAfoCandless,
147 U. S. 692, 694,
3, we are still of the opinion that theclerk's right to the docket fee as upon issue joined attaches
at the time such issue is in fact joined, and is not lost by the
subsequent withdrawal of the plea which constituted the issue.
Even when .the clerk is allowed three dollars, there is no requirement that judgment shall be entered upon the issue, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

only that testimony shall be given, the only difference between
the first and second paragraphs being that testimony must be
taken to entitle the clerk to three dollars, while, where none
is taken, he is entitled to two dollars. If the position of the
government be sound it would seem to follow that, if the defendant plead not guilty and a jury trial be had, and the jury
disagree, or, before verdict actually rendered, the defendant
withdraw such plea and enter a plea of guilty, the clerk is
entitled to no 1hore than he would have been if the defendant
had pleaded guilty upon first being arraigned. We think this
could not have been the design of the statute.
3 The next item differs from the last only in the fact that,
after issue was joined, the case was subsequently discontinued
upon not. pros. entered. Literally it falls within the third
paragraph of a cause "dismissed or discontinued"; but, we
think that clause applies only to those cases where the case is
dismissed or discontinued before issue has been. joined, and
that, as in the previogs case, the clerk's right to the larger
docket fee attaches at the time issue is joined. There is somewhat more doubt as to the construction of this paragraph than
the last; but upon the whole we think that it was the design
of the statute to allow the larger docket fee in every case
where issue was joined in the course of the proceedings.
I. Objection is made to a folio charge for making a record
of the names of jurors with their residences, as drawn by the
jury commissioner. In the case of United States v. King,
147 U. S. 676, 678, we held that the statute creating jury
commissioners, act of June 30, 1879, c. 52, 21 Stat. 43, did not
make the clerk of the court such commissioner, although it
required him to act with the commissioner in selecting the
names of jurors, and placing them in the jury box; and that
a new duty was thereby imposed upon him as clerk, for which
no compensation was provided by law. The question in that
case was whether the clerk was entitled to a er diem fee- of
five dollars for services in selecting jurors, in analogy to the
compensation allowed to the jury commissioner; and it was
held that he was not. But it was not intended in that case to
hold that the clerk was bound to forego any of his ordinary

UNITED STATES v. KURTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

fees as clerk, simply because he was aiding the jury commissioner in the performance of a new duty; and it seems to us
that if the practice in that court requires the clerk to make a
record of the names of jurors with their residences, or to do
any other incidental work, in connection with the names of
the jurors drawn, he is entitled to charge for that as for
"making a record." It does not appear that a list of the
jurors with their residences is strictly a part of the records of
the court; but assuming that such list is required to be made
by the order or the practice of the court, and posted up in the
clerk's office, or preserved in the files, and no other method of
compensatiig the clerk is provided, we think it may be properly charged for by the folio.
5. The final objection of the government is made to an item
for entering an order of court, directing the clerk as to what
disposition to make of the money received for fines in certain
cases, and for filing thirteen certificates of deposit of the bank
for fines paid in to the credit of the Treasurer of the United
States. The claim of the government is that the statutory
fee of one per cent. "for receiving, keeping and paying out
money in pursuance of any statute, or order of court," covers
all incidental services in this connection, including the entry
of all orders for the payment of the money, and a filing of all
receipts given by the persons to whom it is paid.
We think, however, the commission of one per cent. was
intended to compensate the clerk for his services and responsibility in the receipt, the safe-keeping and the proper disbursement of the money, and was not intended to deprive him of
fees to which he would have been entitled if the money had
been kept and disbursed by another officer. As the charge
seems to be equitable, and has the sanction, not only of the
Court of Claims, but of several other courts, we are not disposed to disturb it. Goodrich v. United States, 42 Fed.' Rep.
392, 394; Van Duzee v. United States, 48 Fed. Rep. 643, 646.
It results that, for the error of the Court of Claims in respect to the first item, its judgment must be
Reversed, and the ease remandedfor a new judgment in conformity to this opinion.

