PARSONS v. VENZKE.
Statement of the Case.

PARSONS v. Y-ENZKE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF RICHLAND COUNTY, STATE OF
NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 264. Submitted October 13, 189.-Decided November 2, 1696.
The action of local land officers on charges of fraud in the final proof of a
preemption claim does not conclude the government, as the General
Land Office has jurisdiction to supervise such action, or correct any
wrongs done in the entry. Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, affirmed and followed to this point.
The jurisdiction of the General Land Office in this respect is not arbitrary
or unlimited, or to be exercised withort notice to the parties interested;
nor is it one beyond judicial revieiy, under the same conditions as
other orders and rulings of the land department.
The seventh section of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1098, providing that "all entries made under the preemption, homestead, desertland or timber culture laws, in which final proof and payment may have
b n made and certificates issued, and to which there are no adverse
claims originating prior to final entry and which have been sold or incumbered prior to the first day of March, eighteen hundred and eightyeight, and after final entry, to bona fide purchasers, or incumbrancers,
for a valuable consideration, shall, lnless upon an investigation by a
government agent, fraud on the part of the purchaser has been found,
be confirmed and patented upon presentation of satisfactory proof to
the land department of such sale or incumbrance," refers only to
existing entries, and does not reach a case like the present, whcre the
action of the land department in cancelling the entry and restoring the
land to the public domain took place before the passage of the act.

ON July 25, 1892, the United States issued a patent for the
land in controversy to Gustav Venzke, one of the defendants
in error. The other defendants in error are his mortgagees.
On January 11, 1883, one Willis B. Simpkins made a preemption entry of the land, and received a receiver's final
receipt, the land at that time being public and subject to preemption entry under the laws of the United States. On February 8, 1883, he conveyed the land to Charles J. Wolfe,
through whom, by foreclosure of a mortgage, plaintiff in error
acquired her title.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

On September 26, 1884, W. W. MVcIlvain, a special agent of
the land department of the United States, reported to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office at Washington, as
the result of his investigations, that the preemption entry of
Simpkins had been fraudulently and unlawfully made. Proceedings for an investigation of this charge were ordered
before the local land officers. Notice was duly given by
publication. Simpkins made no appearance, but the plaintiff
in error appeared by attorneys. The investigation was carried
on in the local land office and thereafter in the General Land
Office at Washington, and the proceedings reviewed by the
Secretary of the Interior, the plaintiff in error being a party
to all those proceedings. They resulted in a cancellation of
the entry on the ground that it had been fraudulently and
unlawfully made; and the land was restored to the public
domain.
Thereafter Venzke took the proceedings which culminated
in the patent; whereupon the plaintiff in error commenced
this suit in the District Court of Richland County, North
Dakota, to have him charged as trustee of the legal title
for her benefit. In that court a decree was entered in favor of the defendants, which, having been affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State, has been brought here on writ
of error.
On March 3,1891, Congress passed an act, c. 561, 26 Stat.
1095, 1098, ยง 7 of which contains this provision:
"And all entries made under the preemption, homestead,
desert-land or timber culture laws, in which final proof and
payment may have been made and certificates issued, and to
which there are no adverse claims originating prior to final
entry and which have been sold or incumbered prior to the
first day of March, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, and
after final entry, to bona fide purchasers, or incumbrancers,
for a valuable consideration, shall, unless, upon an investigation by a government agent, fraud on the part of the
purchaser has been found, be confirmed and patented upon
presentation of satisfactory proof to the land department of
such sale or incumbrance."

PARSONS v. VENZKE.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Seth -Newmanfor plaintiff in error. -Mr. S. B. Pinney
and .Ab'. J. E. .RobinoJn were on his brief.
Xr. TV. II. Standisk for defendants in error. _Mr. S. ..
Snyyder and Air. Curtiss Sweigle were on his brief.
MR. JusTicE BIEWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Counsel for plaintiff in error challenge the power of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office or the Secretary of
the Interior to cancel and set aside a pre6mption entry after
the local land officers have approved the evidences offered of
settlement and improvement, received the purchase money
and issued the receiver's final receipt. They contend that
except in certain specified cases, which are not material for
consideration here, the action of the local land officers concludes the government, and the General Land Office has no
jurisdiction to supervise such action or correct any wrongs
done in the entry.
Subsequently to the issuing of the writ of error in this case
this precise question was presented to this 6ourt, Orc]iardv.
Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, and the jurisdiction of the land
department was affirnied; a jurisdiction not arbitrary or unlimited, nor to be exercised without notice to the parties interested, nor one beyond judicial review under the same conditions as other orders and rulings of the land department.
In this case the entryman was brought in by due publication
of notice, and the real party in interest appeared. The contest
was carried through the land department, from the lowest to
the highest officer, and there is nothing in the record which
brings the case within the rules so often laid down for a judidial reversal of the decisions of that department.
Much reliance is placed upon the seventh section of the act
of March 3, 1891, 8uJpra, and it is contended that before any
adverse rights were created Congress ratified and confirmed
the entry made by Simpkins. We think that statute inapplicable. It was passed long after the action of the land department in cancelling the entry and restoring the lafnd to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

public domain, and when there was no subsisting entry to be
confirmed. The theory of the plaintiff in error is that the act
applies to all entries which had ever been made prior thereto,
whether subsisting or cancelled. But clearly it refers to only
subsisting entries. An entry is a contract. Whenever the
local land officers approve the evidences of settlement and improvement and receive the cash price they issue a receiver's
receipt. Thereby a contract is entered into between the
United States and the preemptor, and that contract is known
as an entry. It may be, like other contracts, voidable; and is
voidable if fraudulently and unlawfully made. The effect of
the entry is to segregate the land entered from the public
domain, and while subject to such entry it cannot be appropriated to any other person, or for any other purposes. It would
not pass under a land grant, no matter how irregular or fraudulent the entry. When by due proceedings in the proper
tribunal the entry is set aside and cancelled, the contract is
also terminated. The voidable contract has been avoided.
There is no longer a contract, no longer an entry, and the
land is as free for disposal by the land department as though
no entry had ever been attempted. The term used in the
section, "confirmed," implies existing contracts which, though
voidable, have not been avoided, and not contracts which once
existed but have long since ceased to be. If the act is not
limited to existing entries, existing contracts, then it must
apply to all entries, all contracts, no matter when made or
how long since cancelled, or what rights have been acquired
by others since the cancellation. It would apply to an entry
cancelled years before, although the land had since been
enteted and patented to another; and would carry a mandate
to the land department to execute a patent to one whose
claims had been adjudged fraudulent, and in disregard of the
rights created in reliance upon that adjudication. No such
intention can be imputed to Congress. The statute, as its
language implies, refers only to existing entries, and does not
reach a case like the present.
Affrme.
The judgment is

