CITIZENS' BANK v. CANNON.
Statement of the Case.

CITIZENS' BANK v. CANNON.
APPEAL "ROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 5% Argued and submitted October 21,

G96.
-Decided

November 30, 1896.

Jurisdiction cannot be conferred on a Circuit Court of the United States,
by joining in one bill against distinct defendants claims, no one of
which reaches the jurisdictional amount.
In proceedings under a bill to enjoin the collection of taxes for, a series of
years, where the proof only shows the amount of the assessment for one
year, which is below the jurisdictional amount, it cannot be assumed, in
order to confer jurisdiction, that the assessment for each of the other
years was for a lik6 amount.
Although, as a general rule, an appeal will not lie in a matter of costs alone.
where an appeal is taken on other grounds as well, and not on the sole
ground that costs were wrongfully awarded, this court can determine
whether a Circuit Court, dismissing a suit for want'of jurisdiction, can
give a decree for costs, including a fee to the defendants' counsel in tie
nature of a penalty; and it decides that the decree in this case was erroneous in that particular.
When a Circuit Court dismisses a bill for want of jurisdiction it is without
power to decree the payment of costs and penalties.

IN March, 1893, the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, a banking
corporation created by the legislature of Louisiana, filed a bill
of complaint in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Louisiana, against several defendants who
were sheriffs respectively of a number of parishes in that
district, seeking to enjoin the defendants from enforcihg the
payment of taxes alleged to be due from the bank on lands
owned by it in the several parishes.
The main allegation of the bill was that the bank was by
the terms of its charter exempt from taxation of every kind
on its capital and property, and that certain specific and subsequent statutes of the State of Louisiana, by virtue of whose
provisions the defendants were proposing to enforce the payment of taxes, would, if carried into effect, operate to impair
the contract between the bank and the State, contrary to the
tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

United States. The taxes, which it was alleged it was the
purpose of the defendants to assess and collect, were for state
and parish taxation for the years 1889, 1890, 1891 and 1892.
Restraining orders were issued against the several defendants.
Afterwards, in May, 1893, an amended bill of complaint was
filed by the bank against the same defendants, alleging that,
since the granting of the restraining orders and pending the
disposition of the case, certain named assessors of the said
several parishes were proceeding to list for assessment and
taxation for the, year 1893 the property of the bank situated
in the said parishes, and praying that the said assessors might
be subpoenaed to appear and answer said original and amended
bill, and to abide the decrees of the court. Restraining orders
were likewise issued under this amended bill.
On July 17, 1893, the defendants filed a general demurrer
to both bills, and, on the same day, filed a plea to said bills,
alleging that the taxes levied on the property of the complainant did not in any one of the parishes named in the bill
amount to the sum of two thousand dollars, and because such
taxes so levied were payable to and levied for the State, the
respective parish, and the levee board of the levee district
in which such parish was situated; and alleging that the
assessors and tax collectors of each of said parishes could not
be joined for the purpose of giving the Circuit Court jurisdiction. The defendants also filed an answer, setting up
various matters on which they contended that the bank's
exemption from taxation was no longer operative.
The demurrer was, after argument, overruled. Replications
to the plea and answer were filed. The complainant put in
evidence the original charter of the bank and several acts of
the legislature amendatory thereof; the revenue act of the
legislature for the year 1890, and extracts from the assessment rolls of the several parishes named in the original and
amended bill, showing the property owned by the bank and
the amourit of taxes assessed thereon. The defendants put in
evidence certificates from the respective parishes, showing the
property owned by the bank and the amount of taxes assessed
thereon.

CITIZENS' BANK v. CANNON.
Opinion of the Court.

On November 22, 1893, after argument, the court entered
a decree, sustaining the plea to the jurisdiction and dismissing
the bill at complainant's costs. The decree further ordered
that a fee should be allowed the solicitor of the defendants,
amounting to ten per cent of the taxes sought to be enjoined
in the bill, viz., the sum of three hundred and seventeen P- 6dollars, to be paid by complainant as part of the costs in the
case. From this decree an appeal was prayed and allowed to
this court. A certificate was duly signed by the judge of the
Circuit Court, setting forth that the question decided was solely
that raised by the plea to the jurisdiction of the court, and
directing that copies of the bill, the exhibits showing the taxes
involved and the property on which the taxes were levied, and
the valuation of gaid property, and of the plea and decree,
should be attached to the certificate.
A.
ury for appellant. Mr. Charles J.
.Mr. Will ram
Boatner was on the brief
Mr. M. J. Cunningham,Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, iMr. A. H. Leonard and .Mr. Alexander Porter
Morse, for defendants, submitted on their brief.
MR. JusTicE SmImAs, after stating-the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The first assignment of error questions the correctness of
the decree of the court in sustaining the plea to the jurisdiction
and dismissing the bill.
The bill alleged that the defendants were about to assess
and collect state and parish 'taxes for the years 1889, 1890,
I ,91 and 1892, and the amended bill alleged a similar purpose
as to taxes for 1893. Neither bill contained a specific allegation as to the amount of the assessment or taxes for any one
parish, but averred that the taxes so assessed exceeded, exclusive of interest aud costs, the sum of two thousand dollars.
This must be understood to mean that the aggregate amount
of the taxes for the several parishes exceeded two thousand
VOL. CLx Iv-21

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1896.

Opinion of the Court.

dollars, and the theory of that part of the bill evidently was
that the amount involved, in order to confer jurisdiction on
the Circuit Court, could be reached by adding together the
taxes for the several parishes. But, for reasons given in the
recent cases of Walter v. iYortheastern Rail.oad, 147 U. S.
370,. and Northern Pacijic Railroad v. Malker, 148 U. S.
391, jurisdiction cannot be conferred on the Circuit Court by
joining in one bill against distinct defendants claims no one
of which reached the jurisdictional amount. It is now contended that, as it appears in the extract from the assessment
roll for the year 1892, that the tax for that year assessed and
in the hands of John S. Young, sheriff for the parish of Caddo,
for collection, amounted to upwards of nine hundred dollars,
it can be assumed that the taxes for the years 1889, 1890 and
1891 were for similar amounts, and thus' in the case of that
parish at least, that jurisdiction was shown. But, as the facts
showing jurisdiction do not affirmatively appear in the bill,
and as, for some reason that does not appear, the proof was
restricted to the year 1892, we do not think the defect is supplied by such a conjecture.
It is further argued that jurisdiction may be seen in the
averment of the bill that the value of the exemption of the
bank's property during the continuance of its charter exceeds
two thousand dollars for each parish. But the answer to this
is, that this is not a suit to exempt property from taxation
permanently. The purpose of the bill is to restrain certain
tax assessors and tax collectors from collecting taxes for specific years, and, if the amount of such taxes does not confer
jurisdiction, it is, from the nature of things, impossible for a
court to foresee what, if any, taxes may be assessed in the
future.
It is, however, suggested that as the allegations of the bill
and the evidence adduced to sustain the plea leave it uncertain
whether, if the facts were made fully to appear, jurisdiction.
might not be maintainable, this court should reverse the
decree in order to afford an opportunity to the complainant
to make it appear, by competent evidence, what were the
amounts of the taxes assessed and levied for the whole four

CITIZENS' BDNK v. CANTON.
Opinion of the Court.

years, and also for the year 1893 covered by the amended bill:
and reference is made to Northern Paeific Railroadv. Walker,
148 U. S. 392, a case somewhat similar to the present, where
such a course, it is said, was followed. We do not feel warranted to reverse the decree of the court below on such a view,
but as we'are constrained to reverse the decree, for reasons
presently to be stated, we shall leave it to the court below to
exercise its own discretion in the matter of further proceedings
of the kind suggested.
Error is assigned to the action of the court decreeing that
the complainant should pay the costs, including a fee of upwards of three hundred dollars to the defendants' counsel.
As a general rule, an appeal will not lie in a matter of costs
alone. But such appeals have been sustained in particular circumstances, as, for instance, where the costs have been directed
to be paid out of a trust fund. In Tr2ustees v. Greenough, 105
U. S. 527, this court said, through Mr. Justice Bradley, that
the objection to an appeal on the ground of its being from a
decree for costs only, is untenable. However, in the present
case, the appeal was not taken from the decree on the sole
ground that costs were wrongfully awarded, and, as the entire
decree is before us, it is competent for us to consider whether,
when a Circuit Court dismisses a suit for want of jurisdiction,
it can give a decree for costs, including a fee in the nature of
a penalty, to the defendants' counsel.
The revenue law of Louisiana, act 106 of 1S90, section 56,
provides that the attorney at law who represents the tax collector in injunction proceedings shall, in case of a successful
defence, receive a compensation of ten per cent on the amount
of taxes and penalties collected as the result of the proceedings,
which shall be paid to the said attorney by the party against
whom the judgment is rendered, and shall be collected by the
tax collector as costs at the same time that the taxes and other
penalties are collected. It would seem that the court below
applied the provisions of that statute in the present instance.
Without considering or deciding whether it would be the
duty of a Federal court to follow the state statute in assessing
costs, and particularly in making a payment to an attorney at

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

law of a fee proportionate to the amount recovered a part of
the decree, we are of opinion that this decree was err6neous
in the particular complained of. Having dismissed the bill
for want of jurisdiction, the court was without power to
decree the payment of costs and penalties.
The JMayor v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 24:7, 250, was a case where
the Circuit Court of the United States bad held that it had no
jurisdiction of a case, removed to it from a state court, and had
sustained a motion to remand for that reason, yet proceeded
to give a judgment for the costs of the motion, and ordered
that an execution should issue to collect them. This court
said: "The court held that it had no jurisdiction whatever of
the case, and yet gave a judgment for the costs-of the motion,
and ordered that an execution should issue to collect them.
This was clearly erroneous. If there were no jurisdiction,
there was no power to do anything but to strike the case from
the docket. In that view of the subject the matter was as
much coram non judice as anything else could be, and the
award of copts and execution were consequently void. Such
was the necessary result of the conclusions of the court."
In Inglee v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat. 363, it was said by the Chief
Justice that this court does not give costs where a cause is
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
In Hrornthallv. The Collector, 9 Wall. 560, 566, where the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Mississippi had dismissed a bill for want of jurisdiction and had
awarded costs to the respondents, this court reversed the
decree for that reason, and remanded the cause, 'Wit directions to dismiss the bill of complaint but without costs.
Blaklocke v. Small, 96 U. S. 105.
The decree of the court below is -'reversed and the cause remandedwith directiong to proceed in conformity with this
opinion.

