CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

93

Opinion of the Court.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 46. Argued and submitted October 21, 1596. - Decided November 9,

196.

For several years in succession before the commencement of this action the
Central Pacific Railroad Company transported the mails of the United
States on its roads. During the same period post office inspectors, commissioned by the department, under regulations which required the
railroads "to extend facilities of free travel" to them, were also transported by the company over its roads. During all this period the railroad company presented to the department its claim for the transportation
of the mail without setting up any claim for the transportation of the
inspectors, and the said claims for mail transportation were, after such
presentation, from time to time, and regularly, adjusted and paid on that
basis. This action was then brought'iu the Court of Claims to recover
for the transportation of the inspectors. Until it was commenced no
claim for uch transportation had ever been made on the United States.
JJld, that, without deciding whether the claim of the department that
its inspectors were entitled to free transportation was or was not well
founded, the silence of the company, and its acquiescence in the demand
of the government for such free transportation operated as a waiver of
any such right of action.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
.r. Joseph.E LCammon. and -Mr. CJharles H. Tweed for
appellant submitted on their brief.
31r. Solicitor General for appellees.
Mr. JUSTrCE PECKHAM delivered the opinion of the court.
The Central Pacific Railroad Company owned or leased,
and operated numerous railroad lines, which may be generally
described as, (1) those which were constructed by the aid of
bonds from the United States; (2) lines of the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company to which lands were granted by the acts of
Congress of July 27, 1866, c. 278, ยง 18, 14 Stat. 292, and of
March 3, 1871, c. 22, .' 23, 16 Stat. 573, and the act of July

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239; (3) other railroads constructed
without the aid of bonds from the government. All the subsidized portions of claimant's railroads transported for a number of years prior to the filing of this claim many post office
inspectors, formerly designated as special agents, travelling on
government business, for which services the company has received no pay from the government and never demanded any
before making and filing the claim in suit. If the claimant is
entitled to be paid therefor, the amount is between twentyfive and twenty-six thousand dollars.
The post office inspectors for whose tradsportation the
claimant now asks compensation were commissioned by the
Postmaster General, travelled on the business of the Post Office
Department as such inspectors, and were furnished transportation by the claimant upon the production of their commissions,
which were in the following form:
"POST

OFFICE DEPARTMENT,

" UNITED STATES OF AmERICA.

"To whom it may concern:
"The bearer hereof (name of special or inspector) is hereby
designated a post office inspector of this department, and
travels by my direction on its business. He will be obeyed
and respected accordingly by mail contractors, postmasters,
steamboats, stages and others connected with the postal service. Railroads, steamboats, stages and other mail contractors
are required to extend facilities of free travel to the holder of
this commission.
"Postmaster General.
"Washington, -,
188-."
The regulations of the department were during the time
such transportation was furnished as follows:
"On routes where the mode of conveyance admits of it the
special agents of the Post Office Department, also post office
blanks, mail bags, locks and keys, are to be conveyed without
extra charge.
"Railroad companies are required to convey, without spe-

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

05

Opinion of the Court.

cific charge therefor, all mail bags, post office blanks and stationery supplies. Also to convey free of charge all duly
accredited special agents of the department on exhibition of
their credentials."
The claimant transported these officials for more than six
years prior to the filing of this claim, upon the production of
their commissions, and made no claim for compensation for
such transportation up to the filing of its claims therefor in
the Court of Claims. No protest was ever made by or on
behalf of claimant to the government, because of this claim
for the free transportation of these officials, as contained in
their commissions. The Court of Claims, among other facts,
found that "it has always been assumed by the Post Office Department that the carriage of inspectors upon the exhibition
of their credentials in the form before stated was an acquiescence by the railway companies with the regulations of the
department, and that the regulation was a notice to the company that there was no implied agreement on the part of the
United States or of the department to pay for the transportation of such inspectors, but that such transportation was to be
deemed an incident of their carriage of the mails. That in
all cases where written contracts have been made with companies the contracts have provided for the transportation of
their agents; but in cases of what are called 'recognized service'- that is, where the companies carry the mails for the
compensation fixed by law without express contracts being
made-the department has relied upon the regulation, the
terms of the commission and the long-established usage to
secure the transportation of these officers." The Court of
Claims decided that the claimant was not entitled to recover,
and dismissed its petition. 28 C. Cl. 427.
The claimant cites some sections in other statutes than
those above referred to, as applicable to the different classes
of railroads owned or leased by claimant. Section 6 of the
act of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489, 493, is one of them,
and it reads as follows:
"And le it further enacted, That the grants aforesaid are
made upon condition that said company shall pay said bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

at maturity, and shall keep said railroad and telegraph line in
repair and use, and shall at all times transmit dispatches over
said telegraph line, and transport mails, troops and munitions
of war, supplies and public stores upon said railroad for the
government whenever required to do so by any department
thereof, and that the government shall at all times have the
preference in the use of the same for all the purposes aforesaid, (at fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not to
exceed the amounts paid by private parties for the same
kind of service;)" etc.
Section 11 of the act of July 27, ISM6, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292,
297, is another, and it reads as follows:
"And be it farther enacted, That said Atlantic and Pacific

Railroad, or any part thereof, shall be a post route and military road, subject to the use of the United States for postal,
military, naval and all other government service, and also subject to such regulations as Congress -may impose restricting
the charges for such government transportation."
Section 5 of the act of July 25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239,
240, is in substance the same as section 6 of the act of 1862
above recited.- This section applies to the case of the California
and Oregon Railroad, one of the lessees of the claimant.
The argument upon the part of appellant is that by these
various sections the government entered into a contract with
the claimant to pay for the services rendered, and the claimant agreed to transport the mails at fair and reasonable rates
of compensation, not to exceed the rates paid by private parties for the same kind of service, and in the case of the Southern Pacific Railroad, one of the lessees, it was to perform such
services subject to such regulations as Congress might impose,
restricting the charges for such government transportation. It
is urged that under these various sections applicable to the
various companies forming the Central Pacific Railroad Coinpany nothing is left to the judgment of or the regulation by
the Postmaster General, nor has Congress, at any time, delegated or attempted to delegate to him the right to refuse
payment of compensation tb any of the railroads for- the
transportation of government officials;. that as to all of claim-

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

97

Opinion of the Court.
ant's railroads, whether subsidized or unsubsidized, no department of the government is entitled to demand free
transportation for any of its officers or employ~s, and that
the regulation of the Post Office Department, demanding free
transportation for post office inspectors, is simply void as
being an attempt to take private property without just
compensation.
It is not necessary in this case to construe the meaning of
the various sections of the statutes cited by counsel for claimant. Whether the Post Office Department had or had not
the right to demand free transportation for the post office
inspectors appointed by the Postmaster General is, in the view
we take of this case, beside the question. By the regulations
of the Post Office Department, the right was assumed as existing, and the demand contained in the commissions, for free
transportation for the holders of the commissions was, when
acquiesced in by the company, an acknowledgment on its part
of the existence and validity of the right. The company was
informed by the contents of the commission that the right of
free transportation was claimed, and when it was accorded
pursuant to the claim, and no demand made for payment, at
the time or for years thereafter until the commencement of
this suit., such acquiescence amounts to a clear and conclusive
waiver on the part of the company of any right to now deinand such payment. If the company intended to deny such
right or to dispute the validity of the demand, it should have
taken some step to that end at an early date, so that the government might know that its-claim was disputed instead of
being acknowledged. This was not done. On the contrary,
when the denand was made the company acceded to it without objection, the inspectors were transported in accordance
with the demands of the government, and no notice whatever
given to any one that the company disputed or intended to
thereafter dispute the validity of the demand. It cannot be
possible that it could silently acquiesce in this claim on the
part of the government and continue for years the free transportation of these inspectors, and then suddenly make a demand for payment for their transportation for all that time,
VOL. CLXIV-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

just the same as if it had always disputed the claim and
demanded compensation for the transportation.
It is insisted, however, that the principle has been decided
in favor of the company in the case of the Union Pacific
Railroad vl United States, 104 _U. S. 662. We think the contention is untenable. The case cited was one where the services claimed were of a nature described in section 6 of the
act of 1862 (supra), and, in the absence of any other fact,
the government was clearly liable to pay for them as prescribed in that act. But the government insisted, that the
rule of compensation allowed under section 6 of the act had
been changed by subsequent legislation. It therefore required
the company to perform the services and then undertook to
pay for them at the reduced rate which the government
alleged subsequent legislation called for. The company objected, and this court held that the section alluded to was, in
substance, a contract, and that the claim of the government
that its terms were altered by subsequent legislation was
without foundation, and that the company was entitled to
be paid, as prescribed in the sixth section, a reasonablecompensation, which if not agreed upon was to be arrived at upon
consideration of all the facts material to the issue, not to exceed the amounts paid by private parties. The company at
all times disputed the amount of compensation it was entitled
to as claimed by the government for services confessedly within
the description of section 6, and it never acquiesced in the ruling of the government that the rate had been altered by subsequent legislation, but protested against it. Notwithstanding
these facts, the government claimed that the company having
performed the services required of it, with notice of the subsequent law, Rev. Stat. ยง 4002, must be taken to have assented
to those terms in spite of its protest, but it was held that the
Revised Statutes did not apply, and therefore they did not
alter the contract, nor did they give to the Postmaster General any authority to insist that the contract, as evidenced by
section 6 of the act mentioned, was not binding. It was stated
in the opinion that "as the company, by its terms, was bound
to render the service, if required, its compliance cannot be

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

99

Opinion of the Court.

regarded as a waiver of any of its rights. The service cannot
be treated as voluntary, in the sense of submission to exactions
believed to be illegal, so as to justify an implied agreement to
accept the compensation allowed; for according to the terms
of the obligation, which it did recognize and now seeks to enforce, it had no option to refuse performance when required.
But it might perform, rejecting illegal conditions attached to
the requirement, and save all its rights."
One of the material facts lacking in the case at bar was
present in the case cited, viz., the continuous claim on the
part of the company as to its right, its ever present dispute
with the government in regard to the correctness of the claim,
and its protest against the government's construction of the
law. Instead of that we have absolute silence on the part of
the claimant here for many years and a peaceful acquiescence
in the demand made by the government for the free transportation of these officials.
It is also urged that the Court of Claims erred in its finding
that the railroad company carried United States mails under
the prpvisions of ยง 4002, Rev. Stat., and amendatory acts,
which services were recognized and payments made therefor
from time to time by the defendant under the provisions of
said section. It is said that that section does not apply to the
case of the Central Pacific company, but that section 6, above
mentioned, of the act of 1862 does apply, and -counsel cites, the
case above commented upon of Union Pacifc Railroad v.
United States, 104 U. S. 662, as conclusive of that point. It
is immaterial, so far as the question in this case is concerned,
whether the payments to the company were made under section 4002, or under section 6 of the act of 1862, the material
fact being that during all these years the company has presented its accounts to the government for services in the transportation of the mails and for the use of the telegraph, and
that it has made no claim in any of these years for compensation for the services described in its petition to the Court of
Claims. Whether the services for which the company has
been paid were performed under the act of 1862 or under the
Revised Statutes, the material fact is that the company has

OCTOBER TERT,

1896.

Syllabus.

claimed and been awarded compensation for certain services
in connection with the mails, and at the same time has failed
to make any charge or claim for services connected with the
transportation of post office inspectors. Such omission is furtier evidence of waiver. We are satisfied that no cause of
action arises in favor of the company for compensation for
the transportation of post office inspectors upon the facts
developed in this case.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was right, and it
must be
Afflrmed.

SANDY WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 515. Submitted October 19, 1896. -Decided

November 9, 1896.

The record showed an indictment, arraignment, plea, trial, conviction and
the following recital: "This cause coming on to be heard upon the motion in arrest of judgment, and after beingargued by counsel pro and con,
and duly considered by the court, it is ordered that the said motion be,
and the same is hereby denied. The defendant, Sandy White, having
been convicted on a former day of this term, and he being now present
in open court and being asked if he had anything further to say why the
judgment of the court should not be pronounced upon him sayeth nothing, it is thereupon ordered by the court that the said defendant, Sandy
White, be imprisoned in Kings county penitentiary, at Brooklyn, New
York, for the period of one year and one day, and pay the costs of this
prosecution, for which let execution issue." U1eld, that this was a sufficient judgment for all purposes.
Entries made by a jailor of a public jail in Alabama, in a record book kept
for that purpose, of the dates of the receiving and discharging of prisoners confined therein, made by him in the discharge of his public duty
as such officer, are admissible in evidence in a criminal prosecution in
the Federal courts, although no statute of the State requires them.
When a jury has been properly instructed in regard to the law on any given
subject, the court is not bound to grant the request of counsel to charge
again in the language prepared by counsel, or if the request be given

