UNITED STATES v. ELLIOTT.
Syllabus.

U. S. 63, 73; Union Bank v. Loui ville, New Albany &c.
Railway, 163 U. S. 325, 331.
Reading, then, into the Alabama statute the construction
given thereto by the court of last resort of that State, the argument of the plaintiff in error amounts to this, that, althoagh
it is admitted that the law of the State of Alabama regulating
the doing of insurance business by foreign corporations is not
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, nevertheless we should hold that it does violate that Constitution,
because of another and separate law of Alabama, which it
is asserted would be unconstitutional if it were before us
for consideration. Of course, to state this proposition is to
answer it.
It is suggested that there is no adequate proof that the
policy in controversy was issued by a foreign corporation.
This involves a mere question of fact, which was submitted
to the jury by the trial court, and as to which the Supreme
Court of Alabama said there was evidence sufficient for the
consideration of the jury, and which is not subject to review
here on writ of error. Dower v. Rihard8,151 U. S. 658; ire Buchanan, 158 U. S. 31.
dissented.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

UNITED STATES v. ELLIOTT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 37. Argued October 19, 1596.-Decided November 30, 1696.

A tract of land in South Carolina was sold in 1863 under the direct tax acts
for non-payment of the direct tax to the United States, and was bid in
by the United States. It was then subdivided into two lots, A and B.
Lot A, the most yaluable, was resold at public auction to E who had a
life estate in it, and it was conveyed to him. Lot B was also resold, but
the present controversy relates only to Lot A. This lot was purchased
by a person who had been a tenant for life of the whole tract before the
tax sale. After the purchase and during his lifetime it was seized under
execution and sold as his property. No part of the property has come

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statem ent of the Case.

".

. .

into the possession of the remaiudermen, claimants in this action, nor
have they repurchased or redeemed any part of it from the United States,
nor has any purchase been made on their account. Under the act of
March 2, 1891i c. 496, 26 Stat. 822, they brought this suit in the Court of
Claims to assert their claim as owners in fee simple in remainder, and to
recover one half of the assessed value of the tract. -Held, that as they
were admittedly' owners, as" they themselves neither purchased nor redeemed the land, and as they are not held by any necessary intendment
of law to have been represented by the actual purchaser, they are entitled to the benefit of the remedial statute of 1891.

THE facts of the case, as found by the Court of Claims, were

as follows:
On March 13, 1863, block 91, in the town of Beaufort, South
Carolina, -was sold by the United States direct tax commissioner for South Carolina, under the direct tax acts, act of
August 5, 1861, c. 45, § 8, 12 Stat. 292, 294; act of June 7,
1862, c. 98, 12 Stat. 422, to satisfy a tax, with penalty and
interest, of $127.42 assessed against it, and was bid in by the
United States. Said block was assessed for taxation by the
said commissioner at $10,000. Subsequently it was divided
into two lots, viz., lot A,. containing buildings,.and measuring
on th e north line 103 feet; and lot B, measuring on the
north line 207j feet.
Lot A was, resold November 1, 1866, at public auction, to
T. R. S. Elliott for $200, and conveyed to him. Lot B was
resold at public auction to Thomas Mvi. S. iRhett for $225. At
the time of the said sale for taxes the titles in lots A and B,
save so much thereof as lies west of a line drawn parallel to
the west line of lot A 103 feet west therefrom, were vested in
T. R. S. Elliott as tenant for life, with remainder in fee in
Alfred, William, -Phcebe, Ann C., James C., Arthur H., Isabella R., Seignley C., Montrose and Apsley H. Elliott, children
of the said T. R. S. Elliott. The said Apsley H. Elliott died
in the year 1867, and the other mentioned children are his
heirs at law, The said Thomas R. S. Elliott died in 1876.
The surviving children, who are the claimants, were of tender.
years during the late civil war. The value of that part of
block 91 owned by the claimants is twenty-nine thirtieths of
the whole value of said block.

UNITED STATES v. ELLIOTT.
Argument for Appellants.

Thomas R. S. Elliott, the tenant for life, adhered to the
cause of the rebellion, and on the occupation of Port Royal
by the Union troops in November, 1861, left St. Helena
Island, with all the population of those islands, and remained
away until after the close of the war. During the entire
period of his absence St. Helena Island and the adjacent
islands were occupied by United States troops and had been
entirely abandoned by the original inhabitants. After the
pur'chase, in November, 1866, by T. R. S. Elliott, the property was seized under execution and sold as his property.
Subsequently the purchaser of the propety at sheriff's sale
handed to the widow of T. R. S. Elliott the value of her
(lower in the property. No part of the property has come
into the possession or ownership of the claimants, or any one
of them, through the said T. R. S. Elliott. The claimants
have not repurchased or redeemed any part of said property
from the United States, nor has any purchase been made or
intended to be on their account.
On this state of facts the Court of Claims found that the
claimants were entitled to recover, and on May 8, 1893, entered judgment in their favor for the sum of four thousand
one hundred and eighty-five 9 dollars. From this judgnient an appeal was taken and allowed to this -court.
X[r. Assistant Attorney Gorman and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge for appellants.
If a tenant for life neglects or refuses to pay the taxes, a
receiver may be appointed to take so much of the rent as is
necessary for that purpose and to discharge that obligation.
Cairnsv. Chabert, 3 Edw. Ch. 312.
It is thoroughly settled that a tenant for life cannot purchase at a tax sale, nor acquire an interest adverse to the
reversioner or remainderman by obtaining an assignment
of the tax title. Phelan v. Boylan, 25 Wisconsin, 679;
Varney v. Stevens, 22 Maine, 331; Prettyman v. TWalston, 34:
Illinois, 175-191; Olleman, v. Aelgore, 52 Iowa, 38; Patrick
v. Sherwood, 4 Blatchford, 112; Arnold v. Smith, 3 Bush, 163;

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Stovall v. Austin, 16 Lea (Tenn.), 700; Slewart v. .Aatheny,
66 Mississippi, 21..
It is entirely unnecessary, however, to multiply authorities
on the subject. As was said by Judge Cooley and approvingly quoted by this court in Zamborn v. County Commissioners, supra, "the principle is universal, and is so entirely
reasonable as scarcely to need the support of authorities";
or, as was said by the Court of Claims in Chaplin v. United
States, 29 C. Cl. 231, "the authorities are abundant and are
all one way."
Of course there can be no question but that the term
"owner" as used in the act applies to the life tenant. Under
the decisions of the Court of Claims the term is held to
embrace all persons who have any estate in the property.
Rodgers's case, 21 C. Cl. 130; _Elliott's case, 20 C. Cl. 328;
Cuthbert's case, 20 C. 01. 172.
It is apparent, then, that when this life tenant, Thomas R. S.
Elliott, repurchased the real estate in question from the United
States, it was a purchase for the benefit of the respondents,
the remaindermen. It follows that the property having been
purchased from the United States "by the owner or those
under whom he claims," the respondents are by the terms
of the first proviso of section 4 of the act of March 2, 1891,
expressly inhibited from recovery, and that the judgment
rendered in their favor was erroneous.

.Mr. James lowndes for appellees.
MR. JUSTIC

SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The act of February 6, 1863, c. 21, 12 Stat. 640, provided for
the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within
the United States, by subjecting lands, on which such taxes
had been assessed and remained unpaid, to public sale. to the
highest bidder for a sum not less than the taxes, penalty and
costs, and ten per centum per annum on said tax. The act
contained a provision that the tax commissioners should be
authorized to bid in such lands for the United States at a

UNITED STATES v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

sum not exceeding two thirds of the assessed value thereof,
unless some person should bid a larger sum. It also gave a
right of redemption to minors, non-resident aliens, loyal citizens beyond seas, guardians or trustees of persons under legal
disabilities at any time within two years of such sale.
The land of the claimants was sold on March 3, 1863, and
bid in by the United States for the sum of eleven hundred
dollars. Subsequently, November 1, 1866, the United States
sold at public auction that portion of its land described as
lot A to T. R. S. Elliott for two hundred dollars, and the
same was conveyed to him. Said Elliott died in 1876. During his lifetime the land was seized under execution as his
property and sold, and never afterwards came into his possession or that of the claimants.
The act of March 2, 1891, c. 496, 26 Stat. 822, provided for
the return to the owners of lands bid in for taxes and subsequently resold of any excess received by the United States
beyond the amount of the tax assessed thereon, and also for
a crtain rate of compensation to the owners of property sold
for direct taxes. The fourth section of that act contained the
following :
"That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury
to pay to such persons as shall in each case apply therefor and
furnish satisfactory evidence that such applicant was at the
time of the sales hereinafter mentioned the legal owner, or is
the heir at law or devisee of the legal owner of such lands as
were sold in the parishes of St. Helena and St. Luke in the
State of South Carolina, under the said acts of Congress,
the value of said lands, in the manner following, to wit: To
the owners of the lots in the town of Beaufort, one half of the
value assessed thereon for taxation by the United States direct
tax commissioners for South Carolina; to the owners of lands
which were rated for taxation by the State of South Carolina
as being usually cultivated, five dollars per acre for each acre
thereof returned on the proper tax book ; to the owners of all
other lands, one dollar per acre for each acre thereof returned
on said tax book: Provied, That in all cases where such
owners, or persons claiming under them, have redeemed or

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

purchased said lands, or any part thereof, from the United
States, they shall not receive compensation for su~ch part so
redeemed or purchased; and any sum or sums held or to be
held by the said State of South Carolina in trust for any such
owner under section three of this act shall be deducted from
the sumn due to such owner under the provisions of this section: And provided,further, That in all cases where said

owners have heretofore receivea from the United States the
surplus proceeds arising from the sale of their lands, such sums
shall be deducted from the sum which they are entitled to
receive under this act."
This suit was brought by the appellees in the Court of
Claims to assert their claim as the owners in fee simple in
remainder of block 91, composed of lots A and B, to j-.ths of
one half of the value assessed for taxation on said block by
the United States direct tax commissioners for South Carolina.
The Court of Claims found, among other findings, that the
claimants had not repurchased or redeemed any part of lot A
from the United States; nor had any purchase been made,
intended to be, on their account; and rendered judgment for
the claimants in the sum of $4'709.22, being H-ths of one half
of the assessed value of block 91, less the taxes assessed thereon
under the direct tax acts. From so much of this judgment as
relates to one half of the assessed value of lot A the United
States appealed to this court. There is no controversy as to
so much of the judgment as relates to lot B.
The United' States do not claim that the appellees, as
remaindermen in fee, are not owners, within the meaning of
the statute; but they contend that the claimants are within
the exclusion of the proviso that in all cases where such
owners, or persons claiming under them, have redeemed or
repurchased said lands, or any part thereof, from the United
States, they shall not receive compensation for such part so
redeemed or purchased.
As already stated, the Court of Claims found, as a fact, that
the claimants had not redeemed or repurchased any part of
lot A, nor had any purchase thereof beei made on their
account. But this finding is alleged by the United States to

UNITED STATES v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

have been based on an erroneous view of the law, that the
claimants must be deemed to have repurchased lot A because
T. R. S. Elliott, the life tenant, had purchased said lot, A at
the public sale made by the government in 1866.
The theory of the government is that the life tenant was so
far a trustee or representative of the remaindermen that, when
he purchased at the public sale in 1866, he acted as well for
those in remainde-r as for himself. To sustain this view the
counsel for the United States point to the numerous cases in
which it has been held that a tenant for life cannot purchase
for himself at a tax sale or acquire an interest adverse to the
reversioner or remainderman by obtaining an assignment of
the tax title.
Unquestionably, those cases do declare that, as it is the duty
of the life tenant to pay the taxes, he cannot, by buying the
property at a tax sale or by buying from a purchaser at such
sale, take advantage of his own wrong and set up a title so
acquired against the remaindermen.
But does the principle of such decisions apply to a case like
the present?
That principle is that one whose duty it is to keep the taxes
paid cannot, as against those who had a right to rely on his
performance of such duty, successfully assert a title originating in his dereliction of duty. In all the cases cited the question was between the life tenant and the remaindermen. In
the present case the doctrine is invoked, not in protection of
the remaindermen, .but to their detriment. The argument is
that, because the remaindermen might, by proceeding in
equity, have had it declared that the title purchased by the
life tenant at the public sale enured to their benefit, it therefore follows that they must be regarded to have been purchasers at said sale, and be now precluded from the benefits
of the act of 1891.
An important circumstance is that T. R. S. Elliott did not
buy the property at the tax sale in 1863; nor did he buy from
an agent or go-between who bought at that sale; nor did he
redeem the land under the provisions of the tax law. H1e
bought at the public sale in 1866, the time for redemption

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

having long expired, when the United States gave a fee simple
title, free froni encumbrances, to the purchaser. If any one
else than the former life tenant had purchased at that sale, it
is indisputable that the present claimants would have had a
right to recover the money coming to them as owners under
the act of 1891. T. R. S. Elliott was under no obligations to
bid, and we are unable to see that his doing so changed the
relations between the United States and the appellees. If the
creditors of T. R. S. Elliott, instead of awaiting his action in
possessing himself of the title of the United States to the
property, and then seizing it in execution, had themselves
bought at the sale, the substantial facts would have been just
what they now are. It was found as a fact, by the Court of
Claims, that in buying at the auction sale T. R. S. Elliott did
not act for or on account of the remaindermen, and we do not
feel constrained to extend a doctrine devised for the protection
of cestuis quo trustent so as to operate to their injury.
As, then, the appellees were admittedly owners; as they
themselves neither purchased nor redeemied the land; and as
they are not held by any necessary intendment of law to have
been represented by the actual purchaser, it follows that they
are entitled to the benefit of the remedial statute of 1891,
and the decree of the Court of Claims to that effect is accord•Aflirmed.
ingly

STONE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.118.

Argued November 4,1896.-Decded November 80, 1896.

The findings of the Court of Claims in an action at law determine all matters
of fact, like the verdict of a jury; and when the finding does not disclose
the testimony, but only describes its character, and, without questioning
its competency, simply declares its insufficieneyf this court is not at
liberty to refer to the opinion for the purpose of eking out, controlling
or modifying the scope of the findings.

