OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 257. Argued April 24, 2T, 1896.-Decided October 26, 1996.

In 1888, when the goods were imported to recover back the duties paid upon
which this action was brought, a right of action accrued to an importer if
he paid the duties complained of in order to get possession of his merchandise, and if he made his protestin the form.required, within ten
days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties.

IN October, 1888, Joseph Birtwell brought an action in the

Circuit Court of the Uhited States for the District of Massachusetts, against Leverett Saltonstall, collector of the customs
for the revenue district of Boston, to recover excess of duties
paid under protest on importations. The trial resulted in a
judgment for Birtwell, which was brought on error to this
court, where the same was reversed and the case was returned
to the Circuit Court for a new trial. 150 U. S. 417.
In June, 18947, the case was again called for trial in the Circuit Court, and again resulted in a judgment for Birtwell.
The case then went, by writ of error, to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, which court
affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court.
In April, 1895, the cause was -removed into the Supreme
Court by virtue of a writ of certiorari. The return to the
writ set forth a stipulation between the counsel for the respective parties that the certified copy of the record of the
cause in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, on
file in the Supreme Court, should be treated as the return to
the writ. That record discloses that, at the trial in the Circuit
Court, the following proceedings took place:
"It is hereby agreed tht trial by jury may be waived in
the above-entitled case, and that the same may be tried and
determined by the court without the intervention of a jury, as

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
Statement of the Case.

provided in sects. 649 and 700 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States.
"J. P. Tuc=R,

"Attorneyfor PZaintiff.
"SHERMAN

HOAR,

"Attorneyfor Defendant and United States Attorney.
"Issue being joined, this cause came on to be heard by
the court, the Honorable Le Baron B. Colt, Circuit Judge,
sitting.
"On October 2, 1894, at the time of the hearing the following admission on the part of the defendant is filed:
"It is hereby admitted that the 432 pieces of iron and the
four pieces of iron -the proper classification of which for
duty under the tariff act of March 3, 1883, is in question in the
above-entitled case - are for the purposes of this case, and for
this case alone, 'manufactures not specially enumerated or
provided for in' said 'act, composed wholly of iron,' within
the meaning of schedule C (paragraph 216, Treasury Compilation) of said act, and are subject to duty under said paragraph
at the rate of forty-five per centum ad valorem.
"This admission as to the classification and nature of said
pieces of iron is made to apply to this case and to this case
alone, and the United States and the defendant are not to
be estopped or prejudiced thereby in any other case whatsoever.
"SHERMAN

HOAR,

"United States Attorney.
"At the same time the following motion for finding is filed
by defendant:
"The defendant moves the court to rule that on all the
evidence in this case, including the written admission of the
defendant now on file in said case, the plaintiff has failed to
prove his case, inasmuch as he has failed to show that he paid
to the defendant under protest, and for the purpose of obtaining his merchandise, according to the provisions of law in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

force at the time of his importation, the duties he now seeks
to recover.
"And said defendant moves the court to rule that on all
the evidence in this case, including the aforesaid admission
of the defendant, the plaintiff has failed to prove his case, inasmuch as he has failed to show that he complied with the
provisions of law relative to protest, in force at the time of
his said importation.
"And said defendant moves the court to rule that on all
the evidence in this casek including the aforesaid admission
of the defendant, the plaintiff has failed to prove his case.
"And the defendant moves also that the court find generally for him.

" SHERMfAN

h:OA.R,

"United States Attorney.
"Said motion is thereupon overruled by the court and
judgment ordered to be entered for th6 plaintiff.
"On the thirteenth day of October the following findings
of fact are filed by the court:
"The court finds the following facts:
"1. That on Feb. 27, 1888, the plaintiff, Joseph Birtwell,
imported ex steamship ' Jan Breydel,' from a foreign country into the port of Boston, and entered at the custom-house
at said port, certain iron, described in the entry as '432
pieces in manufactures of iron for the third floor of the
Boston court-house,' drilled and fitted complete, as required
by plan, and painted.
"12. That on the fourteenth day of March, 1888, the said
plaintiff imported ex steamship, IPetre De Connick,' from a
foreign country into port of Boston, and entered at the
custom-house in said Boston, certain iron, described in the
entry as '4 riveted girders in iron, complete framing of third
floor of Boston court-house.'
"3. That the defendant, collector of said port of Boston,
estimated the duties on both of said importations under the
provision of schedule 0 of the tariff act of March 3, 1883,
which reads as follows: ' Iron or steel beams, girders, joists,

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
,Statement of the Case.

angles, channels, car-truck channels, TT, columns and posts,
or parts or sections of columns and posts, deck and bulb
beams, and building forms, together with all other structural
shapes of iron or steel, one and one-fourth of on6 cent per
pound.'
"4. That on Feb. 29, 1888, subsequently to said estimation of duties, for the purpose of obtaining said 432 pieces
of iron, the plaintiff paid duties thereon at the rate exacted
by the defendant, amounting to the sum of $2889.29.
"5. That on March 14, 1888, subsequently to said estimation of duties, for the purpose of obtaining said four
pieces of iron, the plaintiff paid duties thereon at the rate
exacted by the defendant, amounting to the sum of $166.75.
"6. That the plaintiff actually obtained said 432 pieces of
iron and said four pieces of iron at the time when he paid the
estimated duties thereon, respectively.
"7. That on the fourth day of April, 1888, the defendant
collector liquidated the duties on said 432 pieces of iron at
the same rate and under the same provisions of law at which
he had estimated said duties; and on the tenth day of April,
1888, said collector liquidated the duties on said four pieces
of iron at the same rate and under the same provisions of
law at which he had estimated said duties.
"8. That on the fourth day of April, 1888, the plaintiff
filed with the defendant collector a protest in writing, setting
forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of his objection
to the rate of duty at which the duties on said 432 pieces of
iron had been liquidated by the defendant collector; and
on the tenth day of April, 1888, the plaintiff filed with the
defendant collector a protest in writing, setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of his objection to the
rate of duty assessed by the collector upon said four pieces of
iron, and in each of said protests the plaintiff claimed that
said 432 pieces of iron and said four pieces of iron, respectively, were dutiable under that portion of schedule 0 of the
tariff act of 1883, which is in the words following: I'Manufactures, articles or wares not specially enumerated or provided
for in this act, composed wholly or in part of -iron, steel, cop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

per, lead, nickel, pewter, tin, zinc, gold, silver, platinum, or
any other metal, and whether partly or wholly manufactured,
forty-five per cent. ad valorem;' and these protests were the
only written protests filed by the plaintiff with the defendant
in this case.
"9. The plaintiff took an appeal from the decision of the
defendant collector on both the said importations to the Secretary of the Treasury within due time, and the Secretary of
the Treasury having sustained the defendant collector in both
cases, the defendant brought this suit in due time, and filed
with the attorney of the defendant a bill of particulars in
compliance with the requirements of section 3012 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
"10. I find as a fact that in connection with his testimony
as to making entries of said importations the plaintiff testified:
'I deposited what they demanded under protest.'
"11. On the question of the hature and dutiable character
of said 432 pieces of iron and said four riveted girders of iron,
there being on record in said case an admission of the defendant in the following language:
"'It is hereby admitted that the 432 pieces of iron and the
four pieces of iron-the proper classification of which for
duty, under the tariff act of March 3, 1883, is in question in
the above-entitled case-are for the purposes of this case, and
for this case alone, "manufactures not specially enumerated
or provided for in" said "act, composed wholly of iron," within
the meaning of paragraph 216 of said act, and are subject to
duty under said paragraph at the rate of forty-five per centum
ad valorem.
"' This admission as to the classification and nature of said
pieces of iron is made to apply to this case and to this case
alone, and the United States and the defendant are not to be
estopped or prejudiced thereby in any other case whatsoever;'
I find that said 432 pieces of iron and said four pieces of iron
were dutiable at the rate of forty-five per centua ad valorem,
as claimed by the plaintiff.
"12. The value of said 432 pieces of iron was $2647; the
value of said four pieces of iron was $ 216 ; and the excess of

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
Statement of the Case.

duties paid over duties due is, on said 432 pieces of iron,
$1698.14, and on said four pieces of iron, $ 69.55.
"13. The court finds that the plaintiff is entitled to recover
the .um of $ 1767.69, and interest from the date of the writ
and costs.
"LB BAnoN B. COLT,
" CircuitJudge.
"On the same day the following bill of exceptions is allowed
and ordered to be filed:
"This was an action to recover the amount of certain duties
alleged to have been illegally exacted of the plaintiff by the
defendant, collector of the port of Boston, upon certain pieces
of iron imported by the plaintiff into said port in the year
1888. The pleadings in the case are hereby referred to and
made a part of this bill of exceptions. The parties, by their
attorneys of record, filed with the clerk a stipulation in writing, waiving a jury. This case came on to be heard before
the Honorable Le Baron B. Colt, Circuit Judge, at the Way
term, 1894.
"The court made thirteen special findings of fact, which
are hereby referred to and made a part of this bill of exceptions.
"Joseph Birtwell, the first witness called by the plaintiff,
testified that on February 27, 1888, he imported from Antwerp by the steamship Jan Breydel, into the port of Boston,
and entered at the custom-house at said port, 432 pieces of
manufactures of iron; and that on the fourteenth day of
March, 1888, he imported from Antwerp by the steamship
Petre De Connick, into said port of Boston, and entered at
the custom-house at said port, four riveted girders.
"By agreement of counsel, naval office copies prqduced by
the witness Birtwell of the entries of said two lots of iron, and
triplicate copies of the consular invoices thereof offered by
him in evidence, were admitted in lieu of the originals, or
collector's copies.
"The witness Birtwell then further testified that on the
date of importation and entry, in the case of each of said two

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
I

Statement of the Case.

lots of iron, the defendant collector estimated the duties
thereon at one and one-quarter cents per pound, and the third
finding of fact of said Circuit Court shows that said estimation
was under that provision of schedule C of the tariff act of
March 3, 1883, which reads as follows: ' Iron or steel beams,
girders, joists, angles, channels, car-truck channels, TT, columns and posts, or parts or sections of columns and posts,
deck and bulb beams, and building forms, together with all
other structural shapes of iron or steel, one and one-fourth of
one cent per pound.' He further testified that on February
29, 1888, for the purpose of obtaining said 432 pieces of iron,
he paid the duties estimated thereon by the defendant collector, amounting to the sum of $2889.29, and that on March
14, 1888, for the purpose of obtaining said four riveted girders,
he paid the duties estimated thereon by the defendant,
amounting to the sum of $166.75, and that he actually obtained said 432 pieces of iron and said four riveted girders at
the times when he paid the estimated duties thereon, respectively.
"From one of the entries referred to above, offered by the
plaintiff and received in evidence, it appeared that the defendant collector liquidated the duties on said 432 pieces of iron
on the fourth day of April, 1888, at the same rate and under
the same provisions of law at which he had estimated said
duties; and from the seventh finding of fact of said Circuit
Court, it appears that on .the tenth day of April, 1888, the
defendant collector liquidated the duties on said four riveted
girders at the same rate and under the same provisions of law
at which he had estimated said duties.
"The examination of the witness Birtwell was then suspended, and the plaintiff called Miss Clara Kenrick. She
testified that she had for many years been the protest clerk
in the custom-house at the port of Boston, and was said clerk
during the year 1888, and that it was her duty to receive and
care for protests filed by importers against the rate of duty
exacted by the collector of said port upon their importations
of merchandise.
"The entries of the plaintiff of the two lots of merchandise

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELTI.
Statement of the Case.

in question, referred to above, were then shown to Miss Kenrick and identified by her as naval office copies of the entries
n~ade by the plaintiff of the two lots of merchandise in question, and the stamps thereon, showing the dates of payment
of the estimated duties and of the liquidation, were explained
by the witness, corroborating the witness Birtwell, to mean
what has been stated above.
"The witness was then asked: ' What is understood by the
custom-house clerks as the liquidation of an entry?' She testited: 'Well, the duties are figured on the entry and the,
entry goes to the naval office for examination, then comes
back to another clerk, who puts the stamp on -" liquidated"
- and completes the liquidation.'
"Two papers were then handed to the witness by the attorney for the plaintiff, and she was asked if there was anything
upon them to show when they were filed at the custom-house.
She testified that there were stamps upon each of said papers
indicating the dates, respectively, at which they were received
at the custom-house. She further testified that the date upon
one of the papers, which related to the plaintiff's importation
of said 432 pieces of iron by the steamship Jan Breydel was
April 4, 1888, and that the date upon the other paper which
related to the plaintiff'i importation of said four riveted girders
by the steamship Petre De Connick was April 10, 1888, and
she testified that said papers were the protests in writing filed
by the plaintiff with the defendant collector against the rate
of duty exacted by him upon said importations.
"She was then asked the following question by the counsel
for the plaintiff: 'What were your duties in relation to protests filed at that time, so far as the time within which and
when they should be filed was concerned? ' The question was
objected to by the counsel for the defendant, but the court
overruled the objection and permitted the witness to answer,
and the defendant then and there duly excepted.
"The answer of the witness to said question was as follows:
'The instructions of the department as to when protests should
be received have varied from time to time. At some times we
have been instructed to receive them at any time from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

date when the entry was made up to the end of ten days after
liquidation. At other times we have been instructed to receive
them only within ten days after liquidation.'
"The witness was then asked by the counsel for the plaintiff the following question: 'Can you, from your memory, tell
which of those practices was invogue at this time in 1888 V
Her reply was, 'I think the last one.' The witness then testified further that she was the clerk who received protests; that
she made certain entries in a book regarding them, giving the
place from which the goods were imported, the date when the
protests were received, the name of the importer, and the subject of the protest and appeal; the name of the vessel, the date
of entry, whether the entry is duty.paid "or bonded, the (late
of liquidation and the date of filing the protest and appeal,
and then it was her duty to send the protest to the deputy
collector of customs; that the protests were required to be
filed in duplicate, and that the original protest and appeal are
sent to the deputy collector of customsand the duplicate protest retained by the witness; and that the original protest and
appeal are afterwards sent by the deputy collector to the Secretary of the Treasury at Washington; that in some cases the
depyty collector.oE customs sent protests to the appraisers and
did not send protests to the Secretary of the Treasury, unless
the report of the appraisers confirmed the decision of the collector, and that the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury
upon protests and appeals is sent to the collector of customs
from whom they have been received.
"The witness then identified two papers as the appeals to
the Secretary of the Treasury filed. by the plaintiff with the
defendant collector in the matter of the decision of the defendant as to the rate of duty chargeable upon defendant's [?]
said two importations.
"Up to this point the papers containing the protests and
appeals referred to above had not been formally offered in
evidence by the plaintiff. Counsel for the plaintiff then formally offered in evidence the two papers identified by the
witnesses Birtwell and Kenrick as the protest filed by the
plaintiff with the defendant collector against the rate of duty

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
Statement of the Case.

exacted by the defendant ulon the plaintiff's said two importations of iron.
"The papers were objected to by the attorney for the defendant on the ground that, from the testimony in the case
and from the dates stamped upon said papers, it appeared that
they had been filed by the plaintiff with the defendant collector too late to be good and valid protests under the law in
force at the time of said importations; but the court overruled
the objection and admitted the papers, whereupon the defendant then and there duly excepted.
"It is not deemed necessary to set out said two papers verbatim, inasmuch as the only objection to their admission was
the objection just stated, it being conceded by the defendant
that said papers complied with the provisions of law regarding protests in all respects, except the time at which they were
filed with said defendant collector. Miss Kenrick then gave
further testimony which, however, is not material for the purpose of this bill of exceptions.
"At this point the defendant placed on file an admission in
writing in the words following:
"'It is hereby admitted that the 432 pieces of iron and the
four pieces of iron - the proper classification of which for duty
under the tariff act of March 3, 1883, is in question in the
above-entitled case -are for the purposes of this case and for
this case alone, "manufactures not specially enumerated or
provided for in" said "act, composed wholly of iron," within
the meaning of schedule 0 (paragraph 216, Treasury Compilation) of said act, and are subject to duty under said paragraph
at the rate of forty-five per centum ad valorem.
"'This admission as to the classification and nature of said
pieces of iron is made to apply to this case and to this case
alone, and the United States and the defendant are not to
be estopped or prejudiced thereby in any other case whatsoever.'
"The four pieces of iron referred to in said admission are
what are referred to herein as four riveted girders.
"On cross-examination, the witness Xenrick testified that
she had no personal knowledge whatever in regard to the

OCTOBER TERMr, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

practice at any timo at other ports than the port of Boston in
the matter of the time of receiving protests.
"The examination of the witness Birtwell was then resumed, but his further testimony contained nothing material
for the purpose of this bill of exceptions.
"1Upon the conclusion of the plaintiff's evidence, and after
the plaintiff had rested, the counsel for the defendant stated
that he had no evidence to offer on behalf of the defendant.
and thereupon rested.
"The counsel for the defendant then filed a motion in
writing in the words following:
"'The defendant moves the court to rule that on all the
evidence in this case, including the written admission of the
defendant now on file in said case, the plaintiff has failed
to prove his case, inasmuch as he has failed to show that he
paid to the defendant under protest, and for the purpose
of obtaining his merchandise according to the provisions
of law in force at the time of his importation, the duties
he now seeks to recover;
"'And said defendant moves the court to rule that on all
the evidence in this case, including the aforesaid admission
of the defendant, the plaintiff has failed to prove his case,
inasmuch as he has failed to show that he complied with the
provisions of law relative to protest in force. at the time of
his said importations.
"' And said defendant moves the court to rule that on
all the evidence in this case, including the aforesaid admission of the defendant, the plaintiff has failed to prove his
case.
"'And the defendant moves also that the court find generally for him.'
-"The court overruled the motion and the defendant duly
excepted.
"This bill of exceptions having been tendered for signature
and allowance to the judge presiding at said cause at the same
term of court at which said special findings were rendered,
and within the time allowed by the court therefor, the same.
is now hereby signed and allowed as a further statement of

SALTONSTALL v. BIIRTWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the exceptions taken and reserved by the said defendant
at the said trial, and is hereby made a part of the record
in the said cause.
"The within bill of exceptions is allowed this twelfth
day of October, 1894.
" L BARox B. COLT,
"Circuit fudge.
"Also on the same day the following judgment is entered:
"It is thereupon considered by the court, to wit,. Oct.
13, 1894, the Honorable Le Baron B. Colt, Circuit Judge, sitting, that the said Joseph Birtwell, plaintiff, recover of the
said Leverett Saltonstall, defendant, the sum of $2433.40
damages and $156.50 costs."
Mr. Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Whitney for plaintiffs in error.
AXr. J. P. Tucker and Mr. Eddward Hartley for defendant
in error.
lr. Hlenry E. Tremain and Mr. MAfason IF. Tyler, by leave
of court, filed a brief in behalf of interested parties.
]NIR. JUSTICE SmRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought by Birtwell, an importer, against
the collector of customs at Boston, to recover certain duties
alleged to have been overcharged upon goods imported in
1888.

It is conceded, on the part of the government, that the
classification and rate of duty adopted by the collector, and
affirmed on appeal by the Secretary of the Treasury, were
erroneous, and that the classification contended for by the
importer was proper. The plaintiff-was accordingly entitled
to recover if payment of the duties was made by the importer for the purpose of obtaining possession of his merVOL. CLXIV-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

chandise, and if the protest, which must be made in order
to give an importer a right of action against a collector for
duties claimed to have been illegally exacted, was made in
time, as provided by.law.
It was affirmatively found, in the Circuit Court, that the
duties were paid by the importer in order to get possession
of the goods, and no abjection has been urged in this court to
the correctness of that finding. The question principally discussed is, whether the plaintiff gave timely and sufficient
notice of protest and dissatisfaction with the decision of the
collector. The record discloses that when the gross estimates
were made, as provided in section 2869 of the Revised Statutes, the importer paid the amounts thereof, and that subsequently, when the duties on the respective invoices were
liquidated, protests in writing in the form required were
filed.
The United States claim that the protests, to be efficacious,
should have been made at or before the time the payments
were made according to the gross estimates. This position
was overruled by the trial court, 63 Fed. Rep. 1004, and the
same view prevailed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. 33 U. S.
App. 52.
It is unnecessary, at this time, to enter into a minute examination of the several enactments on this subject, as they have
been so frequently and recently discussed in several opinions
of this court cited in the arguments of counsel. Barney v.
Vatson, 92 U. S.449; United States v. Schlesinger, 120 U. S.
109; -Daviesv. Miller, 130 U. S.284, and Barney v. 1?ickard,
157 U. S.352, may be particularly mentioned. Our present
task is to apply the conclusions of those cases to the one in
hand, and we can add but little to the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Without repeating the history of the prior statutes, it is
sufficient, for the determiiation of this case, to advert to the
phraseology of sections 2931 and 3011 of the Revised Statutes
and of the act of February 27, 1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 240, 247,
respectively as follows:
"SEc. 2931. On the entry of any vessel, or of any merchan-

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTIWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

dise, the decision of the collector of customs at the port of
importation and entry, as to the rate and amount of duties to
be paid on the tonnage of such vessel or on such merchandise,
and the dutiable costs and charges thereon, shall be final and
conclusive against all persons interested therein, unless the
owner, master, commander or consignee of such vessel, in the
case of duties levied on tonnage, or the owner-, importer, consignee or agent of the merchandise, in the case of duties lev!-d
on merchandise, or the costs and charges thereon, shall, within
ten days after the aseertainment and liquidation of the duties
by the proper officers of the customs, as well as in cases of
merchandise entered in bond as for consumption, give notice
in writing to the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied with
his decision, setting forth therein, distinctly and specifically,
the grounds of his objection thereto, and shall, within thirty
days after the date of such ascertainment and liquidation,
appeal therefrom to the Secretary of the Treasury. The decision of the Secretary on such appeal shall be final and conclusive, and such vessel, or merchandise, or costs and charges,
shall be liable to duty accordingly, unless suit shall be brought
within ninety days after the decision of the Secretary of the
Treasury on such appeal for any duties which shall have been
paid before the date of such decision on such vessel, or on such
merchandise or costs or charges, or within ninety days after
the payment of duties paid after the decision of the Secretary.
No suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of
any duties alleged to have been erroneously or illegally exacted,
until the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury shall have
been first had on such appeal, unless the decision of the Secretary shall be delayed more than ninety days from the date of
such appeal in case of an entry at any port east of the Rocky
Mountains, or more than five months in case of an entry west
of those mountains."
"SEc. 3011. A ny person who shall have made payment
under protest, and in order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for him, to any collector or person acting as colfector, of any money as duties when such amount of duties
was not, or was not wholly, authorized by law, may maintain

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

an action in the nature of an action at law, which shall be
triable by jury, to ascertain the validity of such demand and
payment of duties, and to recover back any excess so paid.
But no recovery shall be allowed in such action unless a protest in writing and signed by the claimant or his agent was
made and delivered at or before the payment, setting forth
distinctly and specifically the grounds of objection to the
alnount claimed."
Section 3011 was, by the act of February 27, 1877, amended
as follows:
q Section three thousand and eleven is amended' by striking
out all after the word 'protest,' in the eighth line, and by
adding the words 'and appeal shill have been taken as prescribed in section twenty-nine hundred and thirty-one.'"
Section 3011, as so amended, therefore reads as follows:
"Any person who shall have made payment under protest,
and in order to obtain possession of merchandise imported
foi him, to any collector or person acting as collector, of any
money as duties when such amount of duties was not, or was
not wholly, authorized by law, may maintain an action in the
nature of an action at law, which shall be triable by jury, to
ascertain the validity of such demand and payment of duties,
and to recover back any excess so paid. But no recovery
shall be allowed in such action unless a protest and appeal
shall have been taken as prescribed in section twenty-nine
hundred and thirty-one."
Undeniably, the general purpose of this legislation was to
secure to the importer, who, in order to get possession of his
merchandise, has paid duties which he alleges to have been
in excess of those authorized by law, a remedy in the nature
of an action at law to recover back any such excess, and to
the United States a notice in writing, setting forth distinctly
and specifically the grounds of objection to the amount
claimed; and to provide, in respect to time, that such notice
must be given within ten days after the ascertainment and
liquidation of the duties and that the action must be brought
within ninety days after the decision on appeal by the Secretary of the Treasury.

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

There is no apparent reason, in the way of advantage or
disadvantage to the United States, why the notice or protest
should be made at any particular juncture, if made before the
appeal to the Secretary.
The moneys paid by the importer, in order that he may
get possession of his merchandise, are forthwith paid into the
Treasury of the United States, and the function of the protest to warn the government of the fact of dissatisfaction and
to commit the importer to a specific statement of the grounds
of his objection is equally performed, whether made at the
time of such payment or within ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties.
In Davies v. Miller, 130 U. S. 284, the contention on the
part of the government was that the notice of dissatisfaction
with the decision of the collector of customs, required by the
act of June 30, 186-, to be given "within ten days after the
ascertainment and liquidation of the duties," could- not be
efficiently given before the final ascertainment and liquidation of the duties as stamped upon the entry. But this court
held that the notice night be validly given at any time
after the entry of the goods and the collector's original estimate of the amount of the duties, saying:
"The purpose is as well accomplished by giving the notice
as soon as the goods have been entered and the duties estimated by the collector as by postponing the giving of the
notice until after the final ascertainment and liquidation of
the duties have been made and stamped upon the entry.
The clause requiring the importer to give such notice ' within
ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties'
must, therefore, according to the fair and reasonable interpretation of the words as applied to the subject-matter, be held
to fix only the terminus ad quem, the limit beyond which the
notice shall not be given, and not to fix the final ascertainment and liquidation of the duties as the terminus a quo, or
the first point of time at which the notike may be given."
We think that the fair and reasonable import of section
2931 and of section 3011, as they stood in 1888, when these
goods were imported, was that a right of action accrued to

OCTOBER TERMI,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

the importer if he paid the duties complained of in order
to get possession of his merchandise, and if he made his
protest in the form required, within ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties.
That Congress, in 1877, amended section 3011, by striking out the provision that the protest should be made and
delivered at or before payment, was a legislative declaration that thereafter such provision should not exist or applY.
It is urged that the phrase "under protest," in the first part
of section 3011, is inconsistent with this view. But it is not
unusual, in a succession of statutes on the same subject-matter,
amending or modifying previous provisions, that a word or
phrase may remain, although rendered useless or meaningless
by the amendments. Such words are merely vestigial, and
should not be permitted to impair or defeat the fair meaning
of the enactment.
However, we do not think that, in this instance, there is any
real inconsistency. The transaction treated of in this legislation is an entire one, beginning with the entry of the merchandise, and continuing through the appraisement, the liquidation
of the duties, the payment, the protest, the appeal, to the trial
of the action, and may properly be spoken of as one in which
the payment is made under protest, or made in a process in
which a protest is made. "Payment under protest" means a
transaction where protest has been made in accordance with
the requirement of section 2931, and not "at or before payment" of the estimated duties.
This view of the subject renders it unnecessary to consider
what effect ought to be given, in the case before Us, to the
practice of the Treasury, either by way of departmental construction or by way of estoppel. Nor do we consider it incumbent on us to consider whether there was error in the
Circuit Court, as a matter of practice, in directing judgment
upon-the special findings in favor of the importer. No such
error was assigned in the Circuit Court, or was considered in
the Court of Appeals, but it first appeared in the application
for the writ of certiorari.

SALTONSTALL" v. BIRTVELL.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Field, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,-affirming
the judgment of the Circuit Court, is
Afirrmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, with whom concurred AIR. JUSTICE
FIELD, MR. JUSTICE

A.RLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

dissent-

ing.

At common law money unlawfully exacted by a collector of
taxes or duties could be recovered back in an action of assumpsit brought against him, but to sustain the action the money
must have been paid under duress. Duties are voluntarily
paid if paid without objection. The finding in this case that
the importer paid for the purpose of obtaining these pieces of
iron is no more than would be true in any case, and does not
show, in the absence of expressed objection, that the payment
of the particular amount was made by the importer in invitum.
As construed by this court in Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236,
the act of March 3, 1839, c. 82, § 2, 5 Stat. 339, 3418, took away
the common law right of action to recover moneys paid under
duress of goods; but it was restored by the act of February 26,
1845, 5 Stat. 727, the provisions of which were carried forward
as § 3011 of the Revised Statutes. The common law action
continued as before save that it was subject to certain new
restrictions. In the revision of 1873-4, act of February 27,
1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 240, 24-7, § 3011 read as follows: "Any
person who shall have made payment under protest, and in
order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for him,
to any collector or person acting as collector, of any money
as duties when such amount of duties was not, or was not
wholly, authorized by law, may maintain an action in the
nature of an action at law, which shall be triable by jury, to
ascertain the validity of such demand and payment of duties,
and to recover back any excess so paid. But no recovery shall
be allowed in such action unless a protest in writing and signed
by the claimant or his agent was made and delivered at or
before the payment, setting forth distinctly and specifically
the grounds of objection to the amount claimed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Field, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

Protest was required to show that the legality of the demand was not conceded when payment was made, and the
words "at or before payment" were merely declaratory and
redundant.
June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 214, c. 171, an act was passed, the
fourteenth section of which was carried forward as section
2931 of the Revised Statutes, as follows:
"§ 2931. On the entry of any vessel, or of any merchandise,
the decision of the collector of customs at the port of importation and entry, as to the rate and amount of duties to be paid
on the tonnage of such vessel or on such merchandise, and the
dutiable costs and charges thereon, shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested therein, unless the owner,
rilaster, commander, or consignee of such vessel, in the case of
duties levied on tonnage, or the owner, importer, consignee,
or agent of the merchandise, in the case of duties levied on
merchandise, or the costs and charges thereon, shall, within
ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties
by the proper officers of the customs, as well in cases of merchandise entered in bond as for consumption, give notice in
writing to the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied With his
decision, setting forth therein, distinctly and specifically, the
grounds of his objection thereto, and shall within thirty days
after the date of such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal
therefrom to the Secretary of the Treasury. The decision of
the Secretary on such appeal shall be final and conclusive;
and such vessel, or merchandise, or costs and charges, shall be
liable to duty accordingly, unless suit shall be brought within
ninety days after the decision of the Secretary of the Treasixry on such appeal for any duties which shall have been paid
before the date of such decision on such vessel, or on such
merchandise, or costs or charges, or within ninety days after
the payment of duties paid after the decision of the Secretary. No suit shall be maintained in any court for the
recovery of any duties alleged to have been erroneously or
illegally exacted, until the decision of the Secrtary of the
Treasury shall have been first had on such appeal, unless the
decision of the Secretary shall be delayed more than ninety

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Field, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

days from the date of such appeal in case of an entry at any
port east of the Rocky Mountains, or more than five months
in case of an entry west of those mountains."
This act of 1864 added a new restriction, namely, that an
action should not lie until a certain proceeding had been prosecuted in the Treasury Department. It did not abolish the
common law action but established the rule of the finality of
the collector's decision unless appealed from ift a certain way.
Many reasons existed for this statute, as in addition to the
former, such as the doing away with prospective protests and
the securing, when the goods were warehoused, of early notification to the government of objections to the duties, if any,
instead of being delayed until protest made on payment when
the goods were withdrawn; but it is enough that this court
Iris already ruled that sections 2931 and 3011 coexist and must
,e construed together. United States v. Schlesinger, 120 U. S.
109, 114. The language of Judge Lowell in Schlesinger's case
on circuit (13 Fed. Rep. 682, 684) is apposite:
"It is safe to say, I think, that no case has been decided in
which, under objection, a plaintiff has ever recovered of a
collector, or of any one else, a payment which was not in the
legal sense coerced. It is not mentioned in every case because it is one of those familiar facts which are taken for
granted. Does the act of 1864, now Rev. Stat. § 2931,
change all this? I think not. That act is not an enabling
but a limiting and restricting act. It does not purport to tell
us when an action may be maintained, but only that the
decision of the department shall be final unless certain things
be done."
It may be observed that two written protests or notices of
specific objections were not generally, if ever, necessary, for
the notice required by § 2931 might be given at the time of
paying the money
The Revised Statutes did not change the action recognized
by the act of 1845, substantially, or relax any of its requirements, and although it is true, as said in Arnsom v.. .2furfihy,
109 U. S. 238, that the specified action was regulated by
express statutory provision , yet the conditions that the pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Field, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

ment must be made under protest and to obtain the goods
still remained, and so it has been several times decided.
Porter'v. Beard, 124 U. S. 429; United States v. Schlesingfr,
120 U. S. 109.

The question really is, then, whether the restrictions were
relaxed by the act of February 27, 1877, 19 Stat. 240. That
act is entitled " A n act to perfect the revision of the statutes
of the United States, and of the statutes relating to the District of Columbia," and declares "that for the purpose of
correcting errors and supplying omissions in the act entitled
'An act to revise and consolidate the statutes of the United
States in force on the first day of December, Anno Domini,
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three,' so as to make
tho same truly express such laws, the following amendments
are hereby made therein. . . . Section three thousand
and eleven is amended by striking out all after the word
'protest' in the eighth line, and by adding the words ' and
appeal shall have been taken as prescribed in section twentynine hundred and thirty-one."' This made section 3011 read
as follows: "Any person who shall have made payment
under protest and in order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for him, to any collector, or person acting as
collector, of any money .as duties, when such amount of
duties was not, or was not wholly, authorized by law, may
maintain an action in the nature of an action at law, which
shall be triable by jury, to ascertain the validity of such
demand and payment of duties, and to recover back any
excess so paid. But no recovery shall be allowed in such
action unless a protest and appeal shall have been taken as
prescribed in section twenty-nine hundred and thirty-one."
This amendment was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals
to have revolutionized the law as to the recovery back of
moneys voluntarily paid, and to allow payments made without
,objection to be recovered if grounds of objection were afterwards discovered. And yet the statute, as amended, preserved the express requirement that payments to be recovered
back must be made "under protest and in order to obtain possession" of the goods. In other words, the amendment pre-

SAITONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Field, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

served so much of the act of 1845 as announced the common
law rule and omitted so much as established new restrictions,
referring instead to the restrictions of 1864. If the intention
had been to change the common law rule the words "under
protest" would have been stricken out, and it seems to me a
most dangerous and wholly inadmissible rule of construction
to treat them as accidentally retained traces of something that
had ceased to be. The words "at or before the payment"
were omitted, but, as already said, these were merely declaratory and redundant, and that was undoubtedly the reason of
the omission. The last clause of section 3011 as amended
refers to the notice in writing required by section 2931, and is
simply a cross reference to the additional requirement that the
Treasury proceeding shall be had before the action is .commenced. In my opinion the action remained an action in the
nature of a common law action, and governed by the principles
of the common law, except as otherwise specifically provided.
Indeed section 30f1 as it now stands is unambiguous on its
face, and does not call for construction unless in respect of the
character of the protest; and that need not be considered, as
the finding of facts must be taken to mean that no protest at
all was made at the time these duties were paid and the pieces
of iron obtained by the importer. I cannot accept the conclusion that under this act the importer can recover on a payment
not made under duress, and think that such duress cannot be
said to exist in the absence of any objection to making the
payment.
I, therefore, dissent from the opinion and judgment of the
court, and am authorized to say that IMR. JusTiE FIELD,
MiR. JUSTICE HARLAN ahd M]R. JUSTICE BREWER concur in this
dissent.

