GRIMES DRY GOODS COMPANY v. MALCOLI.

4S3

Opinion of the Court.

GRIMES DRY GOODS COMPANY v. MALCOLM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Wo. 60.

Argued and submitted October 21, 1896.- Decided November 30, 1896.

In Arkansas a conveyance of personal property of the grantor to the grantee
in trust accompanied by delivery, conditioned that, as the grantor is indebted
to several named persons in sums named, if he shall within a time named
pay off and discharge all that indebtedness and interest, then the conveyance shall be void, otherwise the grantee is to sell the property at public
sale, after advertisement, and apply the proceeds to the expenses of the
trust, the payment of the debts named, in the order named, and the surplus, if any to the grantor, is, under the decisions of the Supreme Court
of that State, a deed of trust in the nature of a mortgage.
The submission of special questions to the jury under the statute of Arkansas is within the discretion of the court.
What the mortgagor in such an instrument said to a third party, after execution and delivery, respecting his intent in executing the instrument, is
not admissible to affect the rights of the mortgagee.
All the evidence in the case being before this court, and it being clear from
it that the trial court would have been warranted in peremptorily instructing the jury to find for the defendant, the plaintiff suffered no
injury from the refusal of the court to permit the jury to retire a second
time.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. G. B. Denison and Mr. N. B. Haxey, for plaintiff in
error, submitted on their brief.
AfXr. A. G. .Moseley for Waples, defendant in error.
ME. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the plaintiff in error, a Missouri
corporation, in the United States court for the Indian Territory, Second Judicial Division, to recover from Malcolm, one
of the defendants in error, the sum of $1845, alleged to be due
the plaintiff on open account for goods, wares and merchandise

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

sold and delivered by it to Malcolm. The plaintiff alleged
that $1200 of the account was due, and that the remainder
thereof was to become due; also, that Malcolm had sold, conveyed or otherwise disposed of his property or suffered or
permitted it to be sold with the intent to cheat or defraud
his creditors or to. hinder or delay them in the collection of
their debts. A writ of attachment based upon affidavit was
issued and levied upon one storehouse and fixtures, one stock
of general merchandise and one gin house and saw mill as the
property of Malcolm. Malcolm filed an affidavit controverting the grouids of the attachmeiit.
By leave of the court the appellee Waples interpleaded,
alleging that at the time of the filing of the suit and of the
levying of the attachment, he was rightfully in possession
and control of the attached property in virtue of an instrument of writing executed by Malcolm on the 19th day of
January, 1891, at iDurant, in the Indian Territory, at which
time Malcolm was in rightful possession and control of the
property; that at the time of the execution and delivery of
that instrument Malcolm delivered to him, Waples, actual
possession of such property; that when the property was
seized he notified the United States marshal of his claim to it,
and demanded possession; that said instrument "was and is a
mortgage with power of sale; that the same was intended by
said defendant, John Malcolm, as a-security for certain debts
therein enumerated, and was so accepted by interpleader."
The above instrument recited that Malcolm does "bargain,
sell and deliver" to Paul Waples certain described personal
property, including the property attached in this case, "to
have and to hold the same unto the said Paul Waples, and
his successors in this trust forever." The condition of the
conveyance is recited to be: "Whereas I am indebted to the
Leeper Hardware Company, $2552.23; and to Waples Platter
Company, two notes aggregating $745:00, not including interest or attorney's fees and an open account for $259.39; and
to Lingo, Waples & Company, two notes aggregating .$399.20,
not including interest or attorney's fees; and to Waterman,
Starr & Company, $224.95; and to Burton, Lingo & Company,

GRIMES DRY GOODS COMPANY v. MALCOLM.

485

Opinion of the Court.

$184.00; and to John R. Garr estate, $142.90, and to various
other parties, named in Schedules ' A ' and ' B,' hereto, annexed
and made a part hereof, in the sums set opposite their respective names. Now if, at any time within sixty days from this
date, I pay off and discharge all of the indebtedness described
aforesaid, including interest, then this conveyance shall be null
and void, and of no further force or effect, and said goods,
merchandise and property shall be restored to me. But if I
fail to pay all of said indebtedness, with accrued interest, if
any, within sixty days aforesaid, then said Paul Waples, or
his successors, shall have the right, and it shall be his duty at
the expiration of said sixty days, after first advertising the
time, terms and place of sale for ten days previous to the day
of sale, . . . to sell all of the aforesaid property then on
hand at public outcry, for cash."
It was further provided in that instrument that Waples
should take exclusive possession of the personal property in
person or by his agents or employes, and should have the
right to sell the merchandise in the due course of business for
cash only. The money realized from the sale of the property,
or any portion thereof, was to be appropriated first to the
payment of the reasonable expenses "of executing this trust";
next to the payment of the claims of certain parties named ;
then to the payment of creditors, first those named in Schedule
A, then those named in Schedule B, each set to be paid in full,
and if not enough to pay all, then to be paid pro r'ata; the
balance, if any, left in the hands of Waples was to be paid to
Malcolm.
The plaintiff filed a reply, controverting all the allegations
of Waples' pleading, and denying that Waples was in possession and control, and entitled to possession and control, of the
attached property or that the instrument referred to was or
is or was intended to be a mortgage with power of sale. It
averred that, as to it, "the said instrument and all acts done
by said Malcolm and said Waples in connection with the execution thereof, and all acts done by either of them or by any
person under and by virtue of it, are and ever have been fraudulent and tended to hinder and delay plaintiff in the collec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of their debt, and was contrived and intended with the
fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder or delay the plaintiff and
the creditors in the collections of its and their debt, and was
and is void."
The reply further alleged "that the said instrument was and
is a deed of assignment, and as such is in violation of the law
governing voluntary assignments, and was and is wholly void,
and the said interpleader never acquired any rights under the
same, and it never gave him any right to the possession of the
property attached in this action, and that said Waples never
had, and has not now, under and by virtue of the said instrument, any right to take or hold possession of the said property,
and has no right to recover the same in this action."
Judgment was taken by the plaintiff against Malcolm for
the amount of the debt due from him, and the cause having
been tried between the plaintiff and Waples, as well as upon
the issue raised by the attachment, the jury found for Malcolm
on the latter issue and for Waples as to the property in controversy. Judgment upon that verdict having been entered,
a writ of error was prosecuted to the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and the judgment
of the court in the Indian Territory was affirmed. 19 U. S.
App. 229; 58 Fed. Rep. 670.
The fundamental question in this case is whether the instrument of January 19, 1891, executed'by Malcolm is a deed of
trust in the jature of a mortgage, or a deed of assignment for
the benefit of creditors. This instrument was before the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit in RainwaterBoogher Hat Co. v. .lfaleolm, 10 LT. S. App. 2419; 2 C. C. A.
476 ; 51 Fed. Rep. 134, 737; and that'court held it to be a deed
of trust in the nature of a mortgage-the legal equivalent of
a mortgage with a power of sale -upon the authority of the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Arkansas construing the
statute of that State regulating assignments for the benefit
of creditors; which statute became a part of the law of the
Indian Territory under the act of Congress of May 2, 1890,
c. 182, ยง 31, 26 Stat. 81, 94.
By the statutes of Arkansas relating to assignments it is

GRIMES DRY GOODS COMPANY v. MALCOLM.

487

Opinion of the Court.

provided: "Se e . 305. In all cases in which any person shall
make an assignment of any property, whether real, personal,
mixed or choses in action, for the payment of debts before the
assignee thereof shall be entitled to take possession, sell or in
any way manage or control any property so assigned, he shall
be required to file in the office of the clerk of the court exercising equity jurisdiction a full and. complete inventoryIand
description of such property, and also make and execute a
bond to the State of Arkansas in double the estimated value
of the property in said assignment, with good and sufficient
security, to be approved by the clerk of said court, conditioned
that such assignee shall execute. the trust confided to him, sell
the property to the best advantage and pay the proceeds
thereof to the creditors mentioned in said assignment according to the terms thereof, and faithfully perform the duties
according to law." Act February 16, 1859, ยง 1, as amended by
act February 23, 1883, Mansfield's Digest, 1884, p. 219.
If the instrument executed by Malcolm was, within the
meaning of the statute, an assignment for the benefit of creditors, then Waples' possession of the property was unauthorized, for he did not comply with the provisions of the statute
by filing the inventory and giving the bond required.
In Richmond v. fisizeiqpi Mills, 52 Arkansas, 31; the court
said: "We do not hold that the giving of one or more mortgages, the confession of judgments or other means adopted
to give security or preference, constitute necessarily or even
ordinarily an assignment. But we do hold that where one
or more instruments are executed by a debtor, in whatsoever
form or by Whatsoever name, with the intention of having
them operate as an assignment, and with the intention of
granting the property conveyed absolutely to the trustee to
raise a fund to pay debts, the transaction constitutes an assignment." The doctrines of that case were affirmed in Feheimer
v. Roberteon, 53 Arkansas, 101, 104, the court saying: "The
confidence of the mortgagors that no surplus would result to
them in this case is apparent from the deeds, as also from the
testimony. The purpose was to devote the property to the
payment of debts. This may be accomplished by either a

OCTOBER TE W11, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage or an assignment. The question is, have the grantors
by stipulations in the deeds or by their agreements and acts
impressed the character of a trust for creditors upon this
transaction'?" In Robson v. Tondinson, 54 Arkansas, 229,
233-234, where the question was whether a certain instrument
was to be taken as a mortgage given to secure a debt, or a
deed of assignment for the benefit of creditors, the court said:
"The instrument relied, upon by Tomlinson, the interpleader,
is in form a mortgage, and not an assignment for the benefit
of creditors. The presumption, until overcome by proof, is
that the parties intended it to have the effect .the law gives to
a mortgage - that is, that it should stand as security for a
debt. The fact that it provides that the mortgagor should
surrender immediate possession to the trustee for the mortgagee does not convert it into an assignment. To accomplish
that result it must be shown that it was the intention of the
parties that the debtor should be divested not only of his control over the property, but also of his title. Gadwell'8 Bank
v. Crittenden, 66 Iowa, 237. The equity of redemption may
be mortgaged or sold, and so be of value to a debtor who has
not the pecuniary ability to redeem; and he has a right to
reserve it in dealing with his creditor, regardless of. his solvency. ..

.

Neither the possession of the goods, nor the

unreasonableness of the debtor's expectation of paying the
debt at maturity, nor his intent never to pay, is the criterion
for distinguishing a mortgage from an assignment. The controlling guide, according to the previous decision of the *court,
is, was it the intention of the parties, at the time the instrument was executed, to divest the debtor of the title and so
make an appropriation of the property to raise a fund to pay
debts? ."
If the equity of redemption remains in the
debtor, his title is not divested, and an absolute appropriation
of the property is not made. In arriving at the intent of the
parties, therefore, the question is, not whether the debtor intended to avail himself of the equity of redemption by. payment of, the debt, but was it the intention to reserve the
equity? If so, the instrument is a mortgage and not an assignment." See also Penzel Co. v. Jett, 54 Arkansas, 428, 430.

GRIMES DRY GOODS COMKPANY v. MALCOLM.

4S9

Opinion of the Court.

These cases, as was said in Appolos v. Brady, 4 U. S. App.
209; 49 Fed. Rep. 401, 403; "declare the test to be: Has the
party made an absolute appropriation of property as a means
for raising a fund to pay debts, without reserving to himself, in
good faith, an equity of redemption in the property conveyed?"
Accepting, as we properly may, the law of Arkansas, upon
the subject of assignments for the benefit of creditors and
mortgages given to secure the payment of debts, to be as declared by the Supreme Court of that State, we are of opinion
that the instrument executed. by Malcolm to Waples, tested.
alone by its words, is a deed of trust in the nature of a mortgage. It does not make an absolute appropriation of the
property for the purpose of creating a fund for the payment
of the debts named, but creates a lien to secure those debts,
subject to an express reservation by the grantor of a right,
within a specified time, to pay the debts,. and have possession
of such of the property as then remained unsold restored to
him. Clearly, this instrument, upon its face, is nothing more
than a security for certain debts -an equity of redemption
remaining in the debtor. It did not make an absolute, fixed
appropriation of the property for the payment of debts.
An effort was made to show that the parties really intended
the instrument to operate as an assignment for the benefit of
creditors. Without stopping to consider whether parol proof
could be properly admitted for such a purpose, we content
ourselves with saying, as did the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that the proof wholly fails to show that either of the parties
to the instrument intended it to be other than what it purports to be on its face, namely, a mortgage.
It is assigned for error that the trial court refused to submit
to the jury certain special qf1estions framed and presented by
the plaintiff after the charge to the jury and before the argument. This contention rests upon certain provisions of the
statutes of Arkansas relating to pleading and practice, (c.
119,)
which are made part of the law of the Indian Territory by the
above act of Congress of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, 94.
Those provisions are: "Sec. 5141. A special verdict is that
by which the jury finds the facts only. It must present the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Courr.

facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to
prove them, and they must be so presented as that nothing remains to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.
Sec. 5142. In all actions the jury, in their discretion, may
render a general or special verdict, but may be required by the
court in any case in which they render a general verdict to
find specially upon particular questions of fact to be stated in
writing. This special finding is to be recorded with the verdict." The submission of special questions to the jury is, under
the statute, in the discretion of the court. It was so held in
-Little Rock & Fort Smith Railway v. Pankhur8t,36 Arkansas, 371, 378. Independently of the statute of Arkansas, this
court has held that "the personal conduct and administration
of the judge in the discharge of his separate functions was
neither practice, pleading nor a form or mode of proceeding"
within the meaning of the practice act of June 1, 1872, 17
Stat. 197, now ยง 914 of the Revised Statutes, and that "the
statute was not intended to fetter the judge in the personal
discharge of his accustomed duties, or to trench upon the
common law powers with which in that respect he is clothed."
ftual Accident Aesociation.v. Barry, 131 U. S. 100, 119.
One of the exceptions taken by the plaintiff at the trial was
to the action of the court in not permitting Malcolm to state
what he said to one Wiswell, within two days after the execution of the instrument in question, as to what he intended that
instrument to be, whether a mortgage or a deed of assignment. What the- mortgagor said to others, after the execution of the mortgage and delivery of possession under it, could
not affect the rights of the mortgagee. Winchester & Partridge .Mfg. Co. v. Creary, 116 U. S. 161, 165.
The bill of exceptions contains the following statement of
what occurred in the trial court before the jury retired to
consider their verdict:
"And after the court had delivered its charge, and plaintiff
had saved its exception thereto, as above set forth, the case
was argued to the jury by the attorneys of the respective
parties, and when the argument had closed, it being near
adjourning hour, it was agreed between the parties in open

GRIMES DRY GOODS COMPA-NY v. MALCOLM.

491

Opinion of the Court.

court that in case the jury agreed upon a verdict during the
recess of court they might seal their verdict and give it to
their foreman, and report it at the meeting of court tomorrow morning. And at the meeting of court the following morning, being the 24th day of September, 1892, said jury
returned into court, and upon being asked by the court if they
had agreed upon a verdict, the foreman of the jury, -Oaks,
Sheimer, one of
replied: 'We have.' And thereupon the jurors, arose and said: ' Your Honor, I agreed to a verdict
last night, but would like to change my vote, if I can do so.'
Whereupon the court replied: ' That is a very strange proceeding,' and ordered the jury to return to their jury-room;
and one of the jurors thereupon arose and said if he was
permitted to introduce evidence he could prove that Sheimer
was not a competent juror. And thereupon A. G. Moseley,
counsel for the interpleader, rose and said that we had agreed
that the jury might seal their verdict and report it at the
opening of the court this morning, and insisted that the jury
should return the verdict they had given their foreman. And
thereupon the court ordered the jury to take their seats in the
box, and said that he would not permit any such conduct, and
ordered the foreman to hand the sealed verdict to the clerk,
and the clerk to read it. And after the clerk had read the
verdict, plaintiff, by its counsel, requested that the jury be
polled, and the court thereupon asked each juror separately
if that was his verdict, and each of them answered 'Yes, sir,'
with the exception of the juror Sheimer, who replied, in
answer to the court's question, '.Is that your verdict' ' Yes,
sir; I suppose so.' Plaintiff, by its counsel, excepted to the
action of the court in not permitting the jury to again retire
to their jury-room to again consider of their verdict, and also
to the action of the court in directing the foreman of the
jury to hand said sealed verdict to the clerk, and ordering
the clerk to read it, and to the entering of said verdict as
the verdict of the jury in the case. This exception was taken
in open court before the jury had retired from the bar of the
court or from their jury-box."
The bill of exceptions brings before the court all the evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

deuce, and it is clear that the trial court could properly have
instructed the jury-peremptorily to return a verdict for tile
defendant. Delaware,Lackawanna &c. Railroad Co. v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469, 472 ; Andersa Cointy lCommisioners v.
Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 24:1; North Pennsylvania Railroad v.

Commercial Bankc, 123 U. S. 727, 733.

In this view of the case

the Circuit Court of Appeals well said that it was not error
for the court to direct one juror to do what it ought to have
directed all of them to do.
Other questions are presented by the assignments of error,
but it is not necessary to discuss them. None of them furnish a ground for reversal. We perceive no error in the
record, and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

-A/firmed.

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 871. Submitted October 23, 1896.-Decded December 7,1896.

There is no error in an instruction that evidence recited by the court to the
jury leaves them at liberty to infer not only wilfulness, but malice aforethought,..if the evidence is as so recited.
There is no error in an instruction on a trial for murder that the intent necessary to constitute malice aforethought need not have existed for any
particular time before the act of killing, but that it may spring up at the
instant, and may be inferred from the fact of killing.
The language objected to in the sixth assignment of error is nothing more
than the statement, in another form, of the familiar proposition that
every man is presumed to intend the natural and probable consequences
of his own act.
Mere provocative words, however ag.raiating, are not sufficient to reduce
a crime from murder to manslaughter.
To establish a case of justifiable homicille it must appear that the assault
made upon the prisoner was such as would lead a reasonable person to
believe that his life was in peril.
There was no error in the instruction that the prisoner was bound to retreat
as far as- he could before slaying his assailant. Bear4 v. United States,

