OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

due process of law. It disposed of the case upon general
principles of law, and does not appear to have considered it
with reference to any provision of the Consfitution of the
United States. At any rate, as the company did not specially
set up or claim any right, title, privilege or immunity under
the Constitution of the United States, this court is without
jurisdiction to review the final judgment of the state court.
The writ of error is, therefore,
Diomissed.

THE .KATE.'
CERTIORARI FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 106. Argued January 6, 7, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

A New York corporation owned and operated steamships plying between
that port and Brazil. A Pennsylvania company was in the habit of supplying these ships with coal as ordered, charging the New York company
therefor upon its books, and as further security for the running indebtedness, filed specifications of lien against the vessels under a statute of New
York. Subsequently the New York company began to employ in their
business other steamers under time charter parties which required the
charterers to provide and pay for all coals furnished them, and the Pennsylvania company supplied these ships also with coals, knowing that they
were.not owned by the New York company, and understanding, although
not absolutely knowing, and not inquiring about it, that the charterers
were required to provide and pay for all needed coals. None of such
coals were supplied under orders of the master of a chartered vessel, but
the bills therefor were rendered to the New York company, which, when
the supplies were made owed nothing for the hire of the vessels. The
coals were not required in the interest of, the owners of the chartered
vessels. Proceedings having been taken in admiralty to enforce liens
for coal against the vessel, Held,
(1) That as the libellant was chargeable with knowledge of the provisions
of the charter party no lien could be asserted under maritime law
for the value of 1the coal so supplied;
1The docket title of this case is "The Berwind-White Coal Mining Company, Appellant, v. The Steamship Kate &c."

THE KATE.
Opinion of the Court.
(2) Without deciding whether the statute of New York would be unconstitutional if interpreted as claimed by the libellant, it gives no
lien where supplies are furnished to a foreign vessel on the order
of the charterer, the furnisher knowing that the charterer does
not represent the owner, but, by contract with the owner, has
undertaken to furnish such supplies at his own cost.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. George Beaune Adam8 for appellant.
Mr. J. ParkerXirlim and .Mr. William PierrepontWilliams
for appellee.
M-u. lusTIEg HAaLA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding in admiralty for a decree condemning
the steamship Kate, an English vessel, her boilers, engines,
tackle, apparel and furniture, to be sold in satisfaction of the
claim of the Berwind-White Coal Mining Company, the libellant herein, for the alleged value of seven hundred and sixtysix tons of coal furnished to and delivered on board of that
vessel at the &ityof Nen York on the 23d day of December,
1892.
The owner, a British subject, intervened and filed an answer
denying the liability of the vessel. The District Court having
dismissed the libel, 56 Fed. Rep. 614, the cause was transferred
by appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, in
which court certain questions of law arose which were certified
to this court under the sixth section of the act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826. Upon examining the questions so
certified, as well as the statement of facts that accompanied
them, this court, by appropriate order, required the whole
record to be sent up that the cause might be here determined,
as fully as if it had been brought here for review by appeal.
The case made by the pleadings and proofs is substantially
as stated by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and is as follows:
The United States and Brazil Mail Steamship Company, a
INew York corporation, having a place of business at the city

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court,

of New York, owned and operated vessels plying between that
city and ports in Brazil. Coal for their use was obtained from
the libellant, a Pennsylvania company, which was engaged in
mining and selling coal and had a place of business in the city
of New 'York. The coal was furnished upon the order of the
steamship company, and, in each instance, was charged upon
the libellant's account books to that company as well as to
the respective vessels.
In June, 1891, the steamship company being indebted to the
libellant for coal delivered in the sum of twenty-five thousand
dollars, the latter for its security filed specifications of lien
against the vessels under a statute of New York providing -for
the collection of demands against ships and vessels. Laws of*
New York, 1862, p. 956, c. 482. Subsequently, upon an adjustment of accounts between the parties, it was agreed that
the libellant should continue to furnish coal to the vessels of
the steamship company, and in its discretion and for its security to file in the proper office specifications of lien against
each vessel for the coal supplied to it. All the vessels, for
which the libellant had, up to that time, furnished coal, upon
the order of the steamship company, were owned by that company. But shortly thereafter the steamship company began
to employ in its business steamers obtained under time charter
parties. Among the vessels so employed was the steamship
Kate.
The charter party under which the steamship company
'obtained the possession and'control of the Kate was executed
December 15, 1892. -It contained, among other conditions,
the following:
"That the owners shall provide and pay for all provisions,
wages and consular shipping and discharging fees of the captain, officers, engineers, firemen and crew, ahd shall pay for
the insurance of the vessel; also for all engine room and deck
stores, and maintain her in a thoroughly efficient state in hull
and machinery for and during the service.
" That the charterers8hallprovide andcpay for all the coals,
port charges, pilotages, agencies, commissions and all other
charge8 whatsoever, except those above stated. That the char-

THE KATE.
Opinion of the Court.

terers shall accept and pay for all coal in the steamer's bunkers on delivery, and the owners shall, on the expiration of this
charter party, pay for all coal left in the bunkers each, at the
current market prices at the respective ports when she is delivered to them."
"That the charterers shall pay for the use of said vessel at
the rate of six shillings and six pence per gross register ton
per calendar month, commencing from the time the vessel
(after entry at the custom-house) is placed with clean holds at
charterers' disposal, and at and after the same rates for any
part of a month.

"

"Owners to provide rope, falls, block and slings, necessary
for handling ordinary cargoes up to three-ton weight."
"That the captain shall prosecute his voyage with the
utmost dispatch, and take every advantage of wind, by using
the sails with a view to economize fuel, and shall render all
possible assistance with ship's crews and boats.
"That the captain (although appointed by the owners) shall
be under the orders and direction of the charterers as regards
employment, agency or other arrangements; and the charter-

ers hereby agree to indemnify the owners from all consequences or liabilities that may-arise from the captain signing
bills of lading, or otherwise complyhig with their orders and
directions. That if the charterers shall have reason to be dissatisfied with the conduct of the captain, officers or engineers,
they shall make such complaint in writing to the agent in
New York, specially appointed by owners, who shall hake
full power to act on their behalf, and, if necessary, dismiss
any of the officers should they find the complaints made by
charterers are justified and proven.
"That the charterers shall have permission to appoint a
supercargo ad.r purser, who shall accompany the steamer, and
be furnished free of charge with first-class fare and accommodation, and see that the voyages are prosecuted with the
utmost dispatch.
"That the master shall be furnished, from time to time,
with all requisite instructions and sailing directions, and shall
keep a full and correct log of the voyage or voyages in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the consumption of coal shall be correctly entered, which are
always to be open to inspection of the charterers or their
agents."
"That the owners shall have alien upon all cargoes and all
subfreights for any amount due under this charter; and the
charterers shall have a lien on the ship for all moneys paid in
advance and not earned."
The owners of each chartered vessel, as the libellant knew,
had an agent for the business of the vessel at New York city.
The libellant knew or could easily have known what vessels
belonged to the steamship company and what vessels were
operated by the latter under time charters. It is true that its
agents did not examine the charter parties, nor make any
inquiry as to their provisions_; but from what they had always
heard about such instruments they believed and assumed, or
took it for :granted, that they contained conditions requiring
the charterers, at their own expense, to provide and pay for
all coals needed- by the vessel. It was under these circumstances that the libellant furnished each vessel, operated by
the steamship company, with coal as ordered by that company,
charging the company and the vessel therefor, without making
any distinction in the mode of keeping its accounts between
the vessels owned by the steamship company and those operated by it under time charter parties. Specifications of lien
were filed in the proper office against each vessel to which
coal was delivered.
None of the coal furnished to the chartered vessels was
ordered by the master of the vessel, nor were any of the bills
therefor submitted to him for approval. They were submitted
only to the steamship company. Nor did the agents of the
chartered vessels know that coal was'supplied *by the libellant
on the credit of the vessel, or that any specifications of lien
were filed under the local statute.
-The coal received by the chartered vessels was delivered at
different dates, between August 17, 1892, and December 31,
1892; that received by the Kate and referred to in the libel
being delivered on the 23d of December, 1892.
The steamship company was not informed until after Decem-

THE KATE.
Opinion of the Court.

ber 31, 1S92, of specifications of lien having been filed under
the statute against the chartered vessels.
In January, 1893, the libellant having been advised by the
steamship company not to remain unprotected in the future,
the latter was then informed by the libellant that it had filed
specifications of lien against all the vessels, including those
chartered.
The coal furnished to the chartered vessels was contracted
for and delivered at a time when nothing was due to the
owners from the charterer, the hire of the vessels having been
paid in advance.
Coal was not required in the interest of the owners of the
chartered vessels at the time it was furnished; for the agent
of each vessel had sufficient funds in hand, or could have obtained sufficient funds upon the credit of the vessel, to supply
coal for any given voyage.
It may be assumed, for the purposes of the present case although the evidence upon this point is not very satisfactory
that the libellant in fact relied upon the credit both of the
charterer and the vessel, and believed that it acquired a lien,
in each instance, by the filing of specifications under the statute of New York of 1862, which statute was subsequently
amended, but not in any particular affecting the determination of this case. Its provisions, so far as it is material to
refer to them, are as follows:
"ยง 1. Whenever a debt, afuounting to fifty dollars or upwards, as to a sea-going or ocean-bound vessel, or amounting
to fifteen dollars or upwards, as to any other vessel, shall be
contracted by the master, owner, charterer, builder or consignee of any ship or vessel, or the agent of either of them
within this State, for either of the following purposes:
"1st. On account of work done or materials or other articles
furnished in this State for or towards theorbuilding,
vessel; repairing,
such ship
fitting, furnishing or eqiipping
"2d. For such provisions and 'stores furnished within this
State as may be fit and proper for the use of such vessel at
the time when the same were furnished. . .
S..Such debt shall be a lien upon such vessel, her tackle,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

apparel and furniture, and shall be preferred to all other liens
thereon, except mariners' wuages."
"3. Stich specification shall be filed in the office of the clerk
of the county in which such debt shall have been contracted,
except that when such debt shall have been contracted in
either of the counties of New York, Kings or Queens, such
specification shall be filed ifi the office of the clerk of the city
and county of New York."
The charterers of. the Kate having failed. to pay for the
coal d6livered to it, the present libel was filed.
The decree of thb District Oourt dismissing the libel proceeded upon two principal grounds: '1. That as the libellant
did not deal with the owner of the vessel, or with its master
or other officer, but only W4ith the charterer, which had no
authority to charge the vessel with liability for coal, and as
the libellant knev, or must under the circumstances be
assumed to have known, that the charterer himself had
undertaken, with the owners, to furnish such coal as the vessel required, there was no lien under the maritime law- citirrg. The Stroma, 11 U. S. App. 673; The Samuel .fMar8hall,
49 Fed. Rep. 754, affirmed in 6 U. S. App. 383; The Turgot,
11 Prob. Div. 21 ; The Aeronaut, 36 Fed. Rep. 497. 2. That
the statute of New York, properly construed, presupposes for
its application a relation of express or implied authority, and
if that authority does not exist, and that fact is known to the
material man, or if he is legally chargeable with knowledge
of it, no lien arises, by virtue of the statute, when the transaction is with a charterer, any more than when the dealing is
'with any other agent or consignee known to be unauthorized
anid forbidden to contract the debt; that if the statute be considered as imposing a lien upon the vessel, notwithstanding
the libellant knew, or should be held to have known, that tfie
charterer was required by the charter party under which he
controlled the vessel to provide himself the coal needed by it,
then such statute is unconstitutional and void in its application to comiercial and maritime transactions "as an unreasonable and unjust interference with commerce, and as
imposing an unjust burddn on ships as the instruments of-

THE KATE.
Opinion of the Court.

commerce, beyond the power of state authority." 56 Fed.
Rep. 614.
1. Touching the first of these grounds, the contention of the
libellant is, that the stipulation in the charter party binding
the charterer to pay for all coal was only an executory agreement, for the breach of which the owner could hold the charterer personally responsible; that the law will not permit the
owner and the charterer, by agreement, express or implied, to
withdraw the vessel from the operation of a lien in favor of
those who furnish supplies to it in a foreign port; that even
actual knowledge, upon the part of the person furnishing supplies, that tfie charterer had agreed himself to furnish, at his
own expense, the coal needed by the vessel, was wholly immaterial under the New York statute.
We are of opinion that, as the libellant knew, or, under the
.circumstances,is to be charged with knowledge, that the charter party under which the Kate was operated obliged the charterer to provide and pay for all the coal needed by that vessel,
no lien can be asserted under the maritime law for the value
of coal supplied under the order of the chartefer, even if it be
assumed that the libellant in fact furnished the coal upon the
credit both of the charterer and of the vessel. As the charterer had agreed to provide and pay for all coal used by the
vessel, be had no authority to bind the vessel for supplies furnished to it. His want of authority to charge the vessel for
such an expense, was known or could have been known to the
libellant by the exercise of due diligence on its part. Under
the circumstances, the libellant was not entitled to deliver the
coal on the credit of the vessel, and its attempt to hold the
vessel liable is in bad faith to 'the owner. The law cannot
approve or encourage such an attempt to wrong the owners
of the vessel. Neither reason nor public policy forbade the
owner and the charterer from making the arrangement evidenced by the charter party of December 15, 1892. The
master of a ship is regarded as "the confidential servant or
agent of the owners, and they are bound to the performance
of all lawful contracts made by him, relative to the usual
employment of the ship, and the repairs and other necessaries
VOL. CLXIv-0

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

furnished for her use. This rule is established as well upon
the implied assent of the owners, as with a view to the con.
venience of the commercial world." T/e Aurora, 1 Wheat.
95, 101. "The vessel must get on," and "the necessities of
commerce require, that when remote from the owner, he [the
master] should be able to subject his owner's property to that
liability, without which, it is reasonable to suppose, he will
not be able to pursue his owner's interests." The St. lago de
Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409, 416; The J. E. .Iumbell, 148 U. S. 1.
When, therefore, supplies are furnished to a vessel in a foreign
port, upon the order of the master, nothing else appearing, the presumption is that they were furnished on the
credit of the vessel and of the owners, and an implied lien is
given. But no such necessity can be suggested, and no such
reasons urged, in support of an implied lien for supplies furnished to a charterer, when the libellant at the time knew;
or by such diligence as good faith required could have ascertained, that the party upon whose order they were furnished
was without authority from the owner to obtain supplies on
the credit of the vessel, but had undertaken,, as between itself
and the owner, to provide and pay for all supplies required by
the vessel.
There are many cases in which the recognition or rejection
of liens under the maritime law have depended upon the diligence of parties in ascertaining the limitations imposed by
the owners of vessels upon the authority of masters. These
cases proceed upon the ground that good faith must have
been exercised by the party seeking to enforce a lien upon
the vessel. As they throw light upon the present inquiry, it
is proper to refer to some of them.In Thomas v. Osborn,19 How. 22, 31, 32, the court said that
all the commentators agree "that if one lend money to a master, knowing he has not need to borrow, he does not act in good
faith, and the loan does not oblige the owner. Valin, Article 19; Prmnrigon, Contratsa la Grosse, Chap. 4, Sec. 8, and the
older commentators cited by him. Boulay-Paty, Couts de
,Droit Com. Mar. Tit. 1, Sec. 2; Tit. 4,Sec. 14; and see the
authorities cited by him in Note 1, page 153." "1If," the court

THE KATE.
Opinion of the Court.

said, "1the master has funds of his own which he ought to
apply to purchase the supplies which he is bound by the contract of hiring to furnish himself, and if he has funds of the
owners which he ought to apply to pay for the repairs, then no
case of actual necessity to have a credit exists. And if the
lender knows these facts, or has the means, by the use of due
diligence, to ascertain them, then no case of apparent necessity
exists to have a credit and the act of the master in procuring
a credit does not bind the interest of the general owners in
the vessel." In the same case it was said: "We are of opinion
Loring & Co. [merchants who had given a credit to Leach, to
whom had been committed the entire possession, command and
navigation of the vessel] had no right to lend Leach money or
furnish him with supplies on the credit of the ship, and cannot
be taken to have done so. Our opinion is that inasmuch as the
freight money earned by the vessel was sufficient to pay for
all the needful repairs and supplies, and might have been commanded for that use, if they had not been wrongfully diverted,
no case of actual necessity to encumber the vessel existed; and
as Loring & Co. not only knew this, but aided Leach to divert
the freight money to other objects, they obtained no lien on
the vessel for their advances."
In The Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 129, 136, the court, observing
that courts of admiralty do not scrutinize narrowly the account against the ship, said: "They will reject, undoubtedly,
all unwarranted charges; but upon proof that the furnishing
[of supplies and materials] was in good faith, on the order of
the master, and really necessary, or honestly and reasonably
believed by the furnisher to be necessary for the ship while
lying in port, or to fit her for an intended voyage, the lien
will be supported; unless it is made to appear affirmatively
that the credit to the ship was unnecessary, either by reason
of the master having funds in his possession applicable to the
expenses incurred, or credit of his own or of his owners, upon
which funds could be raised by the use of reason able diligence;
and that the material man knew, or could, by proper inquiry,
have readily informed himself of the facts."
So, in The.Lulu, 10 Wall. 192, 201-201, the court said: "Good

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

faith is undoubtedly required of a party seeking to enforce a
lien against a vessel for such a claim [for advances to the
master, or for repairs or supplies furnished at his request],
but the fact that the master had funds which he ought to
have applied to that object is no evidence to establish the
charge of bad faith in such a ease unless it appears that the
libellant knew that fact, or that such facts and circumstances
were know4 to him as were sufficient to put him upon inquiry
within the principles of law already explained. Express knowledge of the fact that the master had sufficient funds for the
purpose is not necessary to maintain the charge of bad faith,
as it is well-settled law that a party to a transaction, where his
rights are liable to be injuriously affected by notice, cannot
wilfully shut his eyes to the means of knowledge which he
knows are at hand, and thereby escape the consequences which
wo.uld flow from the notice if it had been actually received;
or, in other words, the general rule is that knowledge of such
facts and circumstances as are sufficient to put a party upon
inquiry, and to shoiv that if he had exercised due diligence he
would have ascertained the truth of the case, is equivalent to
actual notice of the matter in respect to which the inquiry
ought to. have been made." Again: "Viewed in any light,
it, is clear that necessity for credit must be presumed where it
appears that the repairs and supplies were ordered by the
master, and that they were necessary for the ship when lying
in port or to fit her for an intended voyage, unless itis shown
that the master had funds, or that the owners had sufficient
credit, and that the repairer, furnisher or lender knew those
facts or-one of them, or that such facts and circumstances were
known to them as were sufficient to put them upon inquiry,
and to show that if they had used due diligence they would
have ascertained that the master was not authorized to obtain
any such relief on the credit of the vessel."
In Tlie mily Souder, 17 Wall. 666, 671, the court said that
the presumption of law, in the.absence of fraud or collusion,
where advances are made to a captain in a foreign port, upon
his request, to pay for necessary repairs or supplies to enable
his vessel to prosecute her voyage, or to pay harbor dues, or

THE KATE.
Opinion of the .Court.

for pilotage, towage and like services rendered to the vessel,
that they are made upon the credit of the vessel as well as
upon that of her owners, "can be repelled only by clear and
satisfactory proof that the master was in possession of funds
applicable to the expenses, or of a credit of his own or of the
owners of his vessel, upon which funds could be raised by the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and that the possession of such
funds or credit was known to the party making the advances,
or could readily have been ascertained by proper inquiry."
In The Sarah Starr, 1 Sprague, 453, 455, the court said that
"in giving credit to the vessel and owners, the material, man
should act fn good faith, and he would not be deemed to act
in good faith, if he knew that the master had funds wherewith
to pay for the supplies, or, if facts were known to him, which
would create suspicion, and put him upon inquiry, when such
inquiry would have led to the knowledge that the master had
funds, and had no right, therefore, to obtain supplies on credit.
That is, if the material man had knowledge that the master
was acting in bad faith towards his employers, or knew of
circumstances which ought to admonish him to make inquiry
that would have led to such knowledge, then he would be
affected with bad faith, as colluding with the master, and
aiding him in violating his duty to his owner. But* ifthe
material man had no reason to suppose that the master was
violating his duty in obtaining a credit, he might, upon request
of the master, trust to the vessel and owners, and a lien would
thereby be created."
The principle would seem. to be firmly established that when
it is sought to create a lien upon a vessel for supplies furnished
upon the order of the master, the libel will be dismissed if it
satisfactorily appears that the libellant knew, or ought reasonably to be charged -with knowledge, that there was no necessity for obtaining the supplies, or, if they were ordered on the
credit of the vessel, that the master had, at the time, in his
hands, funds which his duty required that he should apply in
the purchase 9f needed supplies. Courts of admiralty will not
recognize and enforce a lien upon a vessel when the transaction upon which the claim rests'originated in the fraud of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

master upon the owner, or in aome breach of the master's
duty to the owner, of which the libellant had knowledge, or
in respect of which he closed his eyes, without inquiry as to
the facts.
If no lien exists under the maritime law, when supplies are
furnished to a vessel upon' the order of the master, under circumstances charging the party furnishing them with knowledge that the master cannot rightfully, as against the owner,
pledge the credit of the vessel for such supplies, much less is
one recognized under that law where the supplies are furnished,
not upon the order of the master, but upon that of the charterer who did not represent the owner in the business of the
vessel, but who, as the claimant knew, or by reasonable diligence could have ascertained, had agreed himself to provide
and pay for such supplies, and could not, therefore, rightfully
pledge the credit of the vessel for them.
2. But a lien is claimed. in virtue of the statute of :New
York giving a lien upon the vessel for a debt contracted by
the master, owner, charterer, builder or consignee, on account
of work done or materials or other articles furnished in the
State "for or towards the building, repairing, fitting, furnishing or equipping" the vessel, or for such provisions and stores
furnished within the State "as may be fit and proper for the
use of such vessel at the time when the same were furnished."
Literally or narrowly construed, the statute takes no account
of any arrangement or agreement between the charterer and
the owner whereby the authority of the former to pledge the
credit of the vessel is restricted, although the conditions under
which the charterer obtained possession and control of the
vessel were known or could reasonably have become known
to the person with whom the charterer contracted.
We are of opinion that the statute need not and should not
be so construed. It ought not to be so interpreted as to put
it in the power of the charterer and the person with whom he
contracts to combine for the purpose of accomplishing a result
inconsistent with the known agreement between the charterer
and the owner.
If the libellant in this case had furnished the coal upon the

NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS v. NEW ORLEANS.

471

Syllabus.

order of the master, and without knowledge or notice that the
vessel was operated under a charter party, or if coal had been
furnished upon the order of the charterer as well as upon the
credit of the vessel, under circumstances which did not charge
libellant with knowledge of the terms of the charter party,
but charged it only with knowledge of the fact that the vessel
was being operated under a charter party, a different question
would be presented.
It is unnecessary for the decision of this case to consider
whether the statute of New York, if interpreted as claimed
by the libellant, would be repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution. We decide only that libellant has no lien
on the vessel under the maritime law, and that the statute of
New York, reasonably construed, does not assume to give a
lien where supplies are furnished to a foreign vessel upon the
order of the charterer, with knowledge upon the part of the
person or corporation furnishing them, that the charterer does
not represent the owners, but by contract with them has
undertaken to furnish such supplies at his own cost.
The decree of the District Court dismissing the libel is,
therefore,
.Affrmed.

NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS COMPANY v.
NEW ORLEANS.
APPEAL FROM THE cIRcurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRIOT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 1U.

Argued November 4, 1S96. -Decided

November 30, 1696.

In the absence of parties interested, and without their having an opportunity to be heard, a court is without jurisdiction to make an adjudication
affecting them.
A court of equity cannot properly interfere with, or in advance restrain the
discretion of a municipal body while it is in the exercise of powers that
are legislative in their character.
Legislatures may delegate to municipal assemblies the power of enacting
ordinances relating to local matters, and such ordinances, when legally
enacted, have the force 9f legislative acts.

