OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

work done, and we think such lien when the work was completed and the statement of claim filed was superior to the
lien of the mortgage,
Our conclusion is that the whole judgment should be
Affrmed.

AMERICAN ROAD IACHINE COMPANY v. PENNOOK AND SHARP COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE oIROUIi COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 27. Argued March 30, 31, 1S96. -Decided

October 19, 1890.

Letters patent No. 331,920, issued to George W. Taft, December 8, 1885,
for a machine for making, repairing and cleaning roads, dre void, if not
for anticipation, for want of invention in the patented machine.

IN equity. Decree dismissing the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.

Plaintiffs appealed.

X..FrederickP. Fish for appellant. -Yr.
son was on his brief.

. Z R. ichard-

&. 1. 1. Bond for appellees. .Mq. A. ff. Adams, Mr.
C. E. Pickard and _Zr. J. L. Jackson were on his brief.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill for infringement of claims four, ten, eleven
and thirteen of letters patent No. 331,920, issued to George W.
Taft, December 8, 1885, for a "machine for making, repairing
and cleaning roads."
The defences were want of patentable novelty; anticipation;
and non-infringement. On hearing, the Circuit Court, held by
Judge Butler, entered a decree dismissing the bill. 45 Fed.
Rep. 252.

AM. ROAD 'MACH. CO. v. PENNOCK &c. CO.

27

Opinion of the Court.

The application was filed Mlay 6, 1SS5, and the specification
declared "The objects of my present invention are to provide an
efficient and convenient 'stiff-angled' or non-reversible roadmachine in which the ends of the blade are positively sustained against the working strain, while permitted vertical
adjustment by means of push-bars extending from the rear of
the machine to the back of the blade; also, to provide in a
non-reversible road-machine a vertically-swinging thrust-frame
and push-bar arrangement that will permit the required adjustments of the scraper in relation to the plane of the road;
also, to provide in a road-machine a hand-ivheel operating
device for imparting motion to the blade-elevating mechanism, whereby the respective ends of the blade can be raised
and depressed in a quick, easy, and convenient manner; also,
to provide an improved lifting mechanism for elevating and
depressing the blade; also, to afford facilities in a road-machine, in connection with the hand-wheel operating devices,
of a brake or stop device for retaining the hand-wheel, lifting
mechanism, and blade at position of adjustment."
Then followed the drawings and the description, omitting a
part of which, the specification thus continued:
"The front end of the blade D is suspended by a bar or
link G from the arm of a lever H that is arranged along the
side of the machine and fulcrumed at k on a support A 3 that
projects from the' carriage frame. The rear arm of said lever
is provided with a gear segment HI that meshes with an actuating pinion I, by which the arm of the lever may be moved up
and down for raising and depressing the front end of the lever
and blade. The rear end of the blade is connected by a link
GI to a vertically sliding rack J that meshes with an actuating
pinion 11 and is guided by a flanged friction roll K pivoted
on a suitable bracket or support connected to the carriage
frame A. The pinion I that operates the lever H may be provided with flanges i P for embracing the sides of the internally
toothed segment HI and thus serving to guide and retain said
segment and its lever t in proper relation therewith as it is
moved up and down by the rotation of the hand-wheel M.

OCTOBER TER-f, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The rack J and its guide-roll K are preferably fitted to each
other by intermatching grooved and flanged surfaces, as indicated in Figs. 3 and 3 and the operating pinion 11 is provided
with flanges. to embrace the sides of the rack, so.that said
rack is confined and guided in proper relations as it slides up
and down and works with but little friction or resistance when
adjusting the blade.
"Hand-wheels M and Wh are provided for imparting motion
to the respective pinions 11, or operating gear of the bladelifting mechanism, when elevating and depressing the blade
or adjusting the blade to differently inclined positions in relation to the plane of the road, these wheels may be made some
three feet in diameter, more or less, with round or other
formed rims that can be conveniently grasped by the hand at
any part of their periphery. In the present instance the handwheels and their pinions are respectively attached to each
other or formed on the same hub; they are rounted on a
shaft L that extends across the carriage A, and is supported in
bearings on suitable standards 111. One of the wheels (TV, or
MI) is arranged to turn loose on shaft L, so that the two wheels
can be revolved independently of each other for separately
adjusting either end of the blade required. The rims of the
hand-wheels are made sufficiently heavy to act as a balance
against the weight of the blade-lifting devices, so that the
momentum of the wheel will greatly assist the operator in
the manipulation of the machine. Short shafts or studs may
be used in lieu of shaft L as journals for the hand-wheels and
gears if desired. I prefer however to have the shaft extend
across the machine as it makes a stronger and more rigid
construction.
"Brake mechanism is arranged in connection with the carriage for stopping and retaining the hand-wheels to hold the
blade at any position of adjustment. Said brake mechanism
may be made, as indicated, with levers n, having one end fulcrumed beneath the platform at n', and the other provided
with a pad or shoe, N, to press against the rim of the handwheel, a suitable spring, s, being connected therewith to give
the required holding pressure. A foot piece or pedal, P, ar-

ATN.

ROAD MACH. CO. v. PENNOCK &c. CO.

20

Opinion of the Court.

ranged at a convenient position enables the attendant to depress the lever and brake-shoe by placing his foot thereon when
he desires to throw off the brake for releasing the hand-wheel.
"In lieu of connecting the hand-wheel and blade-lifting bar
or lever by means of a toothed pinion and rack, said parts
may be connected by a strap or chain, (one or more,) one end
whereof connects with the lift bar or lever, while the other
end is arranged to wind onto the pinion or hub on the handwheel, or onto a sheave geared to the hand-wheel hub.
"The operation of this road-machine is obvious from the
drawings and foregoing description. The operator, standing
upon the platform A, when he desires to raise or depress either
end of the" blade, places his foot upon the brake-pedal P corresponding to the end to be adjusted, and grasping the rim
of the wheel where it is most convenient to his hand, swings
it backward or forward, (accordingly as required,) with a free
and easy action, and to a greater- or less extent, as desired,
then releases the pedal and the brake or stop is automatically
applied by its spring s.
"A hand-wheel, in combination with and for imparting motion to mechanism for elevating and depressing the scraper
or blade in a road-machine, is of great practical utility and
advantage, as it enables the operator to handle and control
the machine with greater ease and facility than with a lever
handle or crank, and does not necessitate his taking an awkward or constrained position at any part of the action. The
rim of the wheel, acting by its momentum as a balance-wheel,
also enables the operator by a quick movement to suddenly
throw the blade completely up from the ground to avoid contact of large stones or other obstructions while the machine is
in motion. Said rim also serves as a. continuous seat for the
stop or brake, so that the adjustment can be held with the
blade at any degree of elevation desired.
"A hand-wheel adapted to act by its peripheral momentum,
or as awbalance-wheel,for assisting or augmenting the throw or
movement when adjusting the scraper, in combination with the
,wraper-bladeand blade-adjusting mechanism, for the purpose
specified, is an important feature of my invention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Hand-wheels may be employed for elevating and depressing the scraping-blade in a road-machine, in combination with
connections or lifting devices of other construction and arrangement from those herein shown, with beneficial results, and I so
intend to employ said hand-wheels; and I have in other applications (see serial Nos. 167,212 and 173,968) for letters patent
described and claimed certain combinations in which other
forms of lifting mechanism are employed for effecting the
vertical adjustment of the blade.
- "I am aware that a railroad snow-plow or track-clearer has
heretofore been patented, in which the plow was bracedfrom
the car-axle byparallel braces rigidly connected to the plow;
and that a swinging transversescoop or shovel pivoted between
the ends or rearwardly-extendingbraces of equal length, and in
connection with a wheeled carriage, has also been shown*in
,another patent. I anm also aware that other patents exhibit
road-scraperswherein braces or links are shown which connect
blade-supportingstandards in rearof the blade, with one of the
side bars'of the carriage-frame. Such devices I do not therefore herein claim, as neither of them attain the results incident
to my improvement- viz., perfect flexibility of adjustment
with direct support or thrust under all conditions of use and
positions of adjustment."
[The foregoing words in italics were inserted by way of
amendment, the disclaimer being preceded by the statement:
"Regarding the 1st claim for recognition of the state of the
art, insert at the end of the descriptive part of specification,
page 9, the following clause, viz."]
Of the fifteen claims, the'first, fourth, fifth,'tenth, eleventh
and twelfth were:
"1. In a machine for grading and clearing roads, the combination, with a scraper-bar or blade suspended from the
carriage between its front and rear wheels, of thrust-bars
extending from the axle or rear of said carriage and attached
to the back of said scraper near its ends by connecting-joints
that permit upward and downward adjustment at each end of
the scraper-blade independent of the other, substantially for
the purpose set forth."

AM. ROAD MACH. CO. v. PENNOCK &c. CO.

31

Opinion of the Court.

"4. In a road-grading machine, a hand-wheel in combination with the blade-elevating devices, for imparting motion to
said devices, when raising and depressing the blade, substantially as hereinbefore set forth.
"5. In a machine for grading and cleaningroads, the combination, with the scraper-blade, supported by a push frame
at the rear of said blade, and blade-elevating mechanisi, con.nected therewith, of a hand-wheel for imparting motion to
said elevating mechanism for effecting, the upward and downward adjustment of the blade, substantially as hereinbefore
set forth."
"10. In a road-machine the standards I l and shift' L in
combination with the carriage, blade-lifting devices, and operating wheels and pinions, as and for the purposes sdt forth.
"11. The flanged guide-roll K and flanged pinion 11, in
combination with the rack J, blade D and carriage frame A,
and hand-wheel M1, substantially as and for the purpose set
forth.
"12. In combination with the blade-elevating lever H1 having the internally toothed segment HI, of an operating pinion
I, provided with flanges, i, for guiding said segment, substantially as set forth."
The application was examined by the Patent Office, and the
following objections were made:
"If claim 1 is to stand, the state of the art as shown in
patents 226,686, Sweatt, Apr. 20, 1880 (self-load'g carts);
52,028, Carncross, Jan. 16, 1866; 191,287, Jefferson, May 29,
1877, and 288,261, Raab, Nov. 13, 1883 (wheeled scrapers),
must be recognized.
"Claim 4 is met in patent 220,812, Day, Oct. 21, 1879
(same). Furthermore the devices of patents 297,861, Smith,
April 29, 1SS4; 275,614, Edwards & Durkee, April 10, 1883,
and 135,475, Ham, Feb'y 4, 1873 (ex. carrier).
"As to claim 5, in view of the patents 160,535, McCall,
Watkins, Scott, M'ch 9, 1875, and 296,138, Cook, Apr. 1, 1884
(wheeled scrapers), the claim does not present patentable
novelty, these, with the patent of Day, showing that, broadly
considered, a.hand-wheel and a lever are equivalent substitutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Claims 10, 11 and 12 are met in patent of Cary, 152,072,
June 16, 1874 (self-load'g carts).
"Patent 145,736, Humphreys, Dec. 23, 1873 (ex. carrier),
may also be referred-to as showing the state of the art in connection with claim 11.
"Claim 15 is met in patent of Carncross above cited."
Thereupon the specification was amended as before pointed
out, and applicant further said:
"Regarding the fourth and fifth claims, in the references
cited, patent No. 220,812, it is shown that a small hand-wheel
mounted on a. vertical shaft and adapted for winding up a
rope or chain' in manner similar to a car-brake has been used
for bodily lifting a diagonal scraper or snow-plow on a railroad car, both ends of the scraper being lifted simultaneously;
further, in other patents it is shown .that wheels having a
series of projecting handles or pins are employed in connectioil
with means for lifting the plow and conveyer in ditching
machines. Neither of these devices, it is thought, embody the
features which applicant desires to secure, and while there is
no question but that the present wording of said claim is met
by these references, yet it is believed that applicant has a
point to which these former inventions have not attained.
"The claims are hereafter amended with this feature in
view, viz., that in applicant's invention the wheel is designed
and adapted to be worked in combination with a diagonal
blade and as a balance or momentum wheel, so that a quick
throw of the wheel with the hand will by the.weight of the
periphery of. the wheel, augment the action, or carry the blade
mechanism up or down to a greater extent than the mere
movement of the hand."
The fourtIf and fifth claims *were amended; the tenth,
eleventh and twelfth cancelled and two others substituted;
and the fifteenth was erased.
The fourth, tenth, eleventh and thirteenth claims of the
patent as issued read:
"4. The combination, with a diagonal scraper supported in
connection with a wheeled carriage and' adapted for upward
and downward adjustment independently at either of its ends,

AM. RIOAD MACH. CO. v. PENN0CK &c. CO.

33

Opinion of the Court.

of an operating-wheel (or wheels) for effecting such adjustment, adapted to act as a momentum or fly-wheel, as set forth,
whereby the peripheral weight of said wheel is utilized to,
assist in the adjustment of the blade, substantially as hereinbefore explained."
" 10. In a road-machine, the combination of a scraper-blade
adaptedl for upward and downward adjustment at its respective
ends, an operating hand-wheel (or wheels) connected therewith
for effecting such adjustment, and a brake (or brakes) acting
against said wheel to arrest movement thereof and retain the
parts, substantially as set forth.
" 11. In a wheel road-scraper, the combination of a scraperblade adapted for upward and downward adjustment at its
respective ends, an operating-wheel (or wheels) connected therewith for effecting such adjustment and adapted for developing
periplhcral momentum for throwing the blade up or down,
and a brake acting against said wheel to arrest the movement
thereof and retain the parts in position, substantially as set
forth."
"13. In a -road-machine, the combination, with an oblique
scraper suspended beneath a carriage or body mounted on
front and rear wheels, of means for imparting independent
upward and downward adjustment at the respective ends of
said scraper provided with hand-wheel and pinion devices for
imparting movement thereto, and stops or brake devices actin- in connection with said hand-wheels for retaining the
parts at positions of adjustment, substantially as described."
Thus it appears that the patentee acquiesced in the ruling
of the Patent Office that the application of hand-wlieels to a
road-grading machine, for i.parting motion to the devices for
raising and depressing the scraper-blade, was old, and, for the
purpose of obtaining his patent, restricted -his claims in this
particular to momentum or balance wheels.
And it is with reference to the momentum feature, treated as
an element in all the claims, that the case must be disposed of.
-Momentum is the quantity of motion in a moving body, and
is proportioned to the quantity of matter multiplied into its
velocity.
VOL. CLXIV-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the 0ourt.

All revolving wheels possess momentum, but momentum
wheels, so called, as balance or fly-wheels, are wheels whose
momentum is utilized in the operation of machinery by a sufficient accumulation of force, through the weight and velocity
of the wheel combined, to overcome the effects of temporary
loss of power.
The knowledge was common that when a continuous power
is applied, but the resistance to be overcome is unequal, a fly
or balance-wheel will store some of the power expended during
the operation and not needed at one stage, and give it out at
another.
This familiar principle is thus expressed in the specification:
"The rims of the hand-wheels are made sufficiently heavy to
act as a balance against the weight of the blade-lifting devices,
so that the momentum of the wheel will greatly assist the
operator in the manipulation of the machine."
The momentum wheel of the patent is described in appellant's brief as being "a wheel having such peripheral weight,
in relation to the weight of the scraper-blade to be lifted, that
it will continue in rotation after the hand of the operator is
removed, so as to enable him to secure a new grasp of the
wheel to continue the lifting process."
Appellant's expert, Mr. Brevoort, puts it thus: "In the case
of the Taft invention, the peripheral momentum was relied
upon to continue the blade of a road-scraper in its upward
motion so that the operator could again grasp the wheel to
give further rotative force thereto without the blades falling
and without the necessity of locking the wheel to enable him
to get another grip thereon." And the patentee testifies:
"The object of making the wheel with the heavy rim was
that there might be sufficient momentum generated in the
hand-wheel to make a continuous rotary motion of the wheel
when it was desired to raise the 'blade over an obstacle, like a
rock or a ' thank-you-ma'am,' or when approaching a cross-walk
on a street. This we could not do with levers, if the lever had
sufficient leverage to give this operation; and by making the
rim of these wheels heavy I secured that ability to cause a
continuous motion of the hand-wheel. After giving it one

AM. ROAD MACH. CO. v. PENNOCK &c. CO.

35

Opinion of the Court.

impulse from !he hand, I could reach forward and give it a
second without applying a break or stop to the wheel, thus
keeping up a continuous motion of the hand-wheel until I had
raised the blade as high as desired."
In short, as the ordinary hand-wheels used for the same or
analogous purposes in similar constructions were old, the claim
of patentable novelty rests on the proposition that Mr. Taft
was the first to increase their weight and apply them as
wheels in a common device for regulating roadmomentum
scrapers to secure the well-known result attendant
on the use
of such wheels.
Was he the first to do this, and, if so, did such increase of
weight involve patentability?
The record contains a number of prior patents of road machines in which the vertical adjustment of the scraper-blade is
effected by levers on each side of the machine, with connecting mechanism to each end of the blade, the actuation of either
lever raising one end of the blade, and of both, raising the
blade as a whole.
The patent of Read of November 25, 1873, shows a reversible scraper-blade adjustable up and down at either end; adjustable laterally in respect of side projection of its blade;
susceptible of being raised quickly at either end or as an
entirety; carried by a four-wheeled frame; and directly controlled by levers through suspending cords or bars, the rear
ends of the levers being adapted to be held by catches or
uprights projecting up from the frame of the machine.
The McCall, Watkins and Scott patent of March 9, 1875,
has a push-bar reversible scraper, with hand-levers and stops
for the vertical adjustment of the scraper-blade and handwheels for steering.
The Cook patent of September 22, 1885, has a scraper supported by a wheeled frame and moved by push-bars, and
capable of being raised and lowered at either end independently by means of racks connected to the scraper, and pinions,
operated by levers, which engage the racks and move them
up and down.
These lever machines were all operative, and these and

OCTOBER TERT1T, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

other patents were introduced in evidence as showing that
wheeled franes;. reversible and non-reversible blades; levers
of various forms for adjusting either or both ends of the
blade; stops for locking the levers in place; stops and'various
other devices for connecting the levers with the blades; were
all well known; but as this is conceded we need spend no
time upon them.
It should, however, be observed that broadly considered a
hand-wheel and a lever are substantial equivalents in these
devices. The wheel is a continuous lever. The rim enables
the operator to lay hold at any point desired, and takes the
place of a number of levers. But it is denied that momentum
hand-wheels are the equivalents of levers.
Other prior patents adduced illustrate the use of' handwheels, cranks and momentum wheels.
Dyson's patent of June 2, 1868, for a "street scraper" has
a triangular frame, D, having slots in which the bars slip up
and down freely, to which the scraper-blades are pivoted.
The dirt is gathered up within this triangle and deposited by
the operation of the rear part of a frame, E. The triangular
frame D is raised by a crank-wheel with a crank connected by
cords with two wheels in such manner as to revolve both
wheels simultaneously, and the whole scraper is thereby raised
and retained by the engagement of the crank with a catch.
The experts differ as to whether these wheels can be used as
hand-wheels if so desired as well as by mea'ns of the cords as
described in the patent.
The Carey patent of June 16, 1874, for an improvement in
scrapers, has a scraper or dirt scoop; a rack attached to a
lever which carries the scraper; a pinion engaging the rack
to 'aise and lower the scraper; a crank handle, as an equivalent for a hand-wheel, to turn the pinion, and a lock to hold
the devices in their adjusted position.
The Taft machine seems to embrace the connecting devices
of this patent, but it has a shaft with a hand-wheel instead
of with a crank.
April 10, 1883, Edwards & Durkee obtained a patent for
an improvement in grading and ditching machines, in which

AL ROAD MACH. CO. v. PENNOCK &c. CO.

37

Opinion of the Court.

all the adjustments are made byV hand-wheels. This has a
plough-beam and a carrying apron or belt, and, "by arranging the several hand-wheels, as shown and described," the
operator "can raise and low:er either end of the plow-beam
independent of the other, and raise or lower the npron as
required."
The patent of Elmer H. Smith of April 29, 184,. for a
ditching machine, shows a plough "consisting of an inclined
flat plate," supported by a wheeled frame, and raised and
lowered by means -of a hand-wheel ahd pinion, acting upon
a rack connected'to the lever which carries the blade. The
blade is operated by a single hand-wheel, in this resembling
the fourth, tenth and eleventh claims under consideration,
which call for "an operating wheel (or wheels)," although
it is testified that "in no case could the adjustments described
in the patent be effected by a single wheel."
May 28, 1878, letters patent No. 204,205, for an "improvement in track clearers," were issued to Augustus Day. This
was a device "for effectually clearing street railways from
snow; and ice, so arranged that the snow will not only be
cleared away from the face of the rails, but also from between
the rails and a suitable distance on each side of the track," it
being so spread and packed -as not to be left "in ridges or
snowbarlks along the street."
It has a diagonal scraper suspended beneath a wheel carriage
and provided with a lifting mechanism consisting of a chain
or rope wound upon the shaft by means of a hand-wheel, there
being several hand-wheels for effecting the different adjustments of the scraper-blade, which is raised at either end at the
will of tie operatbr.
This concurs with the mechanism thus described in the Taft
specification: "In lieu of connecting the hand-wheel and bladelifting bar or lever, by means of a toothed pinion and rack,
said parts may be connected by a strap or chain, (one or mQre,)
one end whereof connects with the lift-bar or lever, while the
other end is arranged to wind ofito the pinion or hub on the
hand-wheel, or onto a sheave geared to the hand-wheel hub."
Day's patent of October 21, 1879, No. 220,812, for "snow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
'Opinion of the Court.

plows," has a diagonal scraper suspended beneath a wheeled
carriage and capable of being raised and lowered by a chain
or cord wound upon a shaft turned by a hand-wheel, the shaft
having a locking device consisting of a ratchet-wheel and a
dog. There is but one hand-wheel which raises and lowers
both ends of the scraper together, while the previous Day
patent had two hand-wheels and chains for raising and loweri.ng the, two ends of the scraper independently. The substance
to be dealt with was snow, aid rails and their bed, with some
distance on each side, the surface to be cleared, but so as not
to encumber the circumjacent highway. In view of the work
to be done, light hand-wheels might be sufficient, yet if momentum as a positive aid were found necessary, their weight
could be increased.
The Boone patent of Octobe 21, 1851, shows a windlass
with drums for winding up cords to raise weights, with a
wheel and pinion and suitable gearing for turning the drums,
and a brake stop.
The Lyon patent of August 6, 1878, for improvement "in
combined ship's pump and windlass" has very heavy momentum hand-wheels for operating either pumps or a winding
drum. Apparently these wheels are heavier for the same
diameter than the Taft hand-wheels.
The Tyler patent of February 14, 1882, for "friction brake
for steering wheels" shows a momentum hand-wheel for
operating the rudder of a vessel, and a pedal brake for holding the wheel in any desired position. The wheel is not described in the specifications as a momentum wheel, but, as it is
such in fact, this is not material.
Appellee's expert Bates testifies that such wheels "are commonly used as momentum wheels and have been as long ago
as 1871. The operator gives them an impulse and their momentmn carries them on."
It is not controverted that a heavy wheel with a crank pin
at the side, such as shown, was a common and very wellknown form of construction for the specific purpose of applying momentum to a crank.
The wheels employed in landing ferry-boats and the ancient

AM. ROAD MACH. CO. v. PENNOCK &c. CO.

39

Opinion of the Court.

spinning-wheels, instanced by the District Judge, readily recur
as illustrations of the use of momentum in *the continuance of
motion. Indeed, it is admitted that all wheels for raising,
winding up and hoisting, if the load is light enough, "are
capable of performing some movement after the hand of the
operator has left them," and the- principle does not depend
upon the extent of the aid thus given to propulsion.
We find then that hand-wheels in the regulation of scraperblades for ditching, grading, street and road clearing were
old, and that this was true of the utilization of momentum
when required by the exigencies of the case, as in capstanwheels, crank-shaft wheels, rudder-regulating wheels, pumpoperating wheels, and so on. Every one knew that momentum propelled the capstan-wheel, the rudder-wheel, the pumpwheel, the spinning-wheel, after the hand of the operator was
withdrawn.
The law of nature was familiarly understood that any moving body tends to continue in motion with a force proportionate to its speed and weight; and it was well known that the
function of fly-wheels and balance-wheels was, in the language
of Mr. Brevoort, "to absorb energy when the machine is moving at greater speed with the least resistance, and to give it out
again when the parts meet with greater resistance."
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the use in roadmachines of wheels made heavier in the adjustment of momentum to resistance was not a new use of momentum wheels in
working machinery, and that the difference in weight in handwheels performing the service of rotary levers was a difference
in degree and not in kind. And the contention as to infringement confirms this view.
Mr. Bates describes appellee's machine as "composed of a
wheeled frame or carriage, beneath which is suspended a
turn-table and to this turn-table the scraper-blade is attached.
The turn-table is suspended by rods from the ends of a bar
which extends across the machine and is capable of vertical
motion between uprights. The bar is supported by being
pivoted near each end to the lower end of a rack-bar. The
rack-bars are moved up and down by pinions on horizontal

OCTOBER TERlM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

shafts, the shafts extending back toward the rear of the machine. At their rear ends are bevel gears which mesh with
pinions on cross-shafts, and there is a hand-wheel on each crossshaftto turn it. There is also a band-wheel on each cross-shaft,
which is embraced by a friction band or band-brake. The
band is connected to a spring-treadle so that the operator can
loosen it by putting his foot on the treadle. The hand-wheels
are small wheels comparatively, similar to those used on carbrakes, and are certainly much too light to act as fly-wheels or
momentum-wheels against such a weight as that of the scraper
and turn-table and attachments. Besides this, the strain
on this weight is a constant one, always acting in the same
direction upon the hand-wheels. The scraper is moved for-ward by means similar to ordinary plow-beams, which are
connected with the turn-table, the turn-table being connected
with the front of the machine, or rather to the king bolt by a
draft-ring and link. There is no device for acting with a
thrust upon the scraper-wheel."
Without subjecting the evidence to critical examination, it
is enough that it is admitted that these hand-wheels are smaller
and lighter than those of appellant, and that to make out
infringement it is requisite to construe the patent in suit
as covering all wheels whose momentum can be utilized in
operating a roadmaking machine.
On the one hand it is contended that appellee's hand-wheels
are not momentum wheels at all and that the continued motion
of the blade is due to earth pressure and not to momentum;
while, on the other, this is denied, and it is insisted that these
wheels are to be treated as momentum wheels because they
will store up "a useful amount of energy to make them continue their further movement, when the hand of the operator
is taken therefrom," provided "the operator shall give to the
wheel a rapid and vigorous pull, moving it while his hand is,
upon it at a greater speed than it afterwards maintains."
We can hardly doubt that similar manipulation of many of
the old wheels would produce the same result, and if there
could be infringement if this were not so, there would be
anticipation if it were.

AM. ROAD MACH. CO. v. PENNOCK &c. CO.

41

Opinion of the Court.

But the decision of the Circuit Court rested on the want of
invention, and in that conclusion we concur.
"1The whole essence of the Taft invention," says appellant's
counsel, is the application of momentum to carry, the wheel
along "sufficiently to enable the operator to take a new grasp,
(as explained by Mr. Brevoort,) without clamping the wheel
to prevent its running backward."
Did increasing the weight of the hand-wheels in this class
of road machines, in order to correct the tendency of smaller
wheels to reverse, involve patentable novelty?
We do not think so. The use of hand-wheels as a substitute
for straight levers in this class of machinery was old, and,
whether the wheels werd light or 'heavy, (and heavy wheels
were old,) they alike performed the service of rotary levers.
The patentee had acquiesced in the rejection of his claim
for a road machine with a blade that was elevated or depressed
by a hand-wheel operating through suitable gearing, and could
not claim the benefit thereof, or of an equivalent construction
of the claims allowed. To make the hand-wheels heavier was
to increase their capacity, but the same end was accomplished
by substantially the same means. The means were old, and
their enlargement by a common method to attain a better
result in the particular instance merely carried forward the
original idea, and was nothing more than would occur to the
experienced mechanic.
It appears to us that, it being seen that the tendency to
reverse would prove objectionable in the proposed machine,
the suggestion that the hand-wheels should be made heavier
in order, by greater momentum, to correct that tendency, as
it was well known increase in weight coupled with adequate
rotative force would, sprang naturally from the exq)ected skill
of the maker's calling, and that this use of the heavier wheel
did not make the mechanism in any proper sense a new thing
evolved by the inventive faculty.
The substitution of the heavier wheel was not the product
of a creative mental conception, but merely the result of the
exercise "of the ordinary faculties of reasoning upon the
materials supplied by a special knowledge, and the facility

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

of manipulation which results from its habitual and intelligent practice."
.Decreeaffrmed.

UNITED STATES v. GILLIAT.
APPEAh FROM THE COURT OF CLAIIS.
No.535. Submitted October 18, 1896.-

Decided October 26, 1896.

It was the intention of Congress, by the language used in the act of August
23,1894, c. 307, 28 Stat. 424, 487, to refer to the Court of Claims simply
the ascertainment of the proper person to be paid the sum which it had
already acknowledged to be due to the representatives of the original
sufferers from the spoliation, and not that the decision which the Court
of Claims might arrive at should be the subject of an appeal to this
court; and that when such fact had been ascertained by the Court of
Claims, upon evidence sufficient to satisfy that court, it was to be certified by the court to the Secretary of the Treasury, and such certificate
was to be final and conclusive.
- THis was one of the claims originating in the depredations
committed by French cruisers upon the. commerce of American citizens prior to the year 1800, commonly called French
Spoliation Claims. Pursuant to the provisions of the act of
January 20, 1885, c. 25, 23 Stat. 283, the claim mentioned in
this proceeding (among many others of a like nature) was
presented to the Court of Claims, and that court made an
award, advising the payment of the claim, which was reported to Congress, pursuant to the act above mentioned, and
Congress, by the act of :March 3, 1891, c. 540, ยง 4, 26 Stat.
862, 897, 900, appropriated money " to pay the findings of
the Court of Claims on the following claims for indemnity
for spoliations by the French prior to July 31, 1301,"1
(among others, on page 900,) "on the ship Hannah, Richard

Fryer, master, namely,

to John A.. Brimmer, ad-

ministrator of John Gilliat, deceased, $35,84:0.44." By the
last clause in the act (page 908) Congress added a proviso
as a condition to the payment of the awards mentioned

