OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

aunt, their testamentary guardian, and placed in their mother's
custody.
The situation being thus, application was made to this court
for the issue of a writ of supersedeas, or other proper writ, to
the Court of Appeals, or to the judge of the Supreme Court
of the District who had entered the order as directed by that
court, to supersede, .annul and set aside the proceedings taken
after the writ of error to this court had been allowed and made
a supersedeas. That application having been submitted, we
found it necessary to request counsel to file briefs on the question of the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the writ, and
this has been done.
We are of opinion that the writ of error will not lie. The
contr6versy is between the mother and the testamentary guardian of the infant children, each claiming the right to their
custody and care, and the matter in dispute is of such a nature
as to be incapable of being reduced to any pecuniary standard
of value.

Barry v. .ercein.,

5 How. 103.

For the reasons given, and on the authorities cited in Chapman v. United States, ante, 436, we hold that this court has

no jurisdiction to review the judgments of the Court of Appeals
under such circumstances, and, as the writ of error must be
dismissed, we ought not to consider the qutestion whether the
action of the Court of Appeals, after the writ of error had
been granted and the judgment of that court superseded, was
improvident or not.
Wlrit of error dismissed.

CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY 'v. CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 11.

ArguedNovember 6, 9, 1896.-Decded November 30, 1896.

As the plaintiff in error did not specially set up or claim in the state court
any right, title, privilege or immunity under the Constitution of the
United States, this court is without jurisdiction to review its final
judgment.

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y v. CHICAGO.

455

Opinion of the CourL

THE case is stated in the opinion.
31r. E. E. 08born for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

Mr. L. W. Bowers

Mr. IF. C. Goudy filed a brief for plaintiff in error on the
question of jurisdiction.
Mr. John S. Miller for defendant in error. Mr. William G.
Beale was on his brief.

Mi.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding instituted by the city of Chicago in
the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, for the condemnation of certain real estate. The object of the proposed condemnation was to open West Taylor Street in that city.
The Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company and the
Chicago, St. Louis and Pittsburg Railroad Company, being the
owners of the property, appeared and filed a cross petition, in
which they alleged:
"That in addition to the land described in the above-entitled
cause, which will be taken for the opening of the street mentioned in said petition, they are the owners of lands on each
side of the said strip of land to be taken for' said street,
which land is used by them as a right of way for their railroad tracks necessary in the carrying on of their railroad
business; that the taking of the said strip of land mentioned
in said petition for the opening of said street will damage the
other land owned by said companies, and used by them as
right of way for their main tracks through the city of Chicago
and for side tracks used by them in carrying on their business
as common carriers.
"That the taking of said land and opening of said street
will interrupt the business of your cross petitioners.
"Your cross petitioners further show that the taking of said
land and the opening of said street across the same will necessitate the construction by your cross petitioners of approaches

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to such crossings, the planking of their tracks, the draining
of the side crossings and the adjoining land owned by said
petitioners, the erection of gates at said crossing, and the
keeping of a flagman thereat; all of which will cause the
said cross petitioners great expense, to the great damage of
your cross petitioners.
"Wherefore your cross petitioners say that the damage to
your cross petitioners, to their business and to the lands of
your cross petitioners iot proposed to be taken in the said
petition, and all damages caused by the opening of said street
and the taking of said lands therefor be assessed as by the
statute in such case made and provided."
By consent of the parties, entered of record, the cause was
tried by the court without the intervention of a jury. The
court found and adjudged that the just compensation to be
paid by the city for the taking of the property described for
the opening of West Taylor Street was one dollar.
Thereupon the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company moved-without stating the grounds for ifs motionthat a new trial be awarded. That notion was overruled, the
company eicepting, and it was adjudged and decreed "that
the sum of money awarded by the court by its finding to the
owner of said lot, piece or parcel of land and property is a just
compensation and the value thereof for the taking and damaging said lot, piece or parcel of land and property by the
-proposed public improvement mentioned in said petition, and
the said owner shall accept from said-city of Chicago such sum
as so awarded on account of the lot, piece or parcel of land
and property so owned by it,. all of said lot, piece or parcel
of land and property being in the city of Chicago, county of
Cook, and State of Illinois, and that upon payment into this
court by the said city of Chicago of the said sum of money
for the use of the owner of the said lot, piece or parcel of
land and property, or upon proof made to or before the court
that the said sum of money has been paid to the owner of
said lot, piece or parcel of land- or property, the said city of
Chicago shall have the right at any time thereafter to take
possdssion of pnd damage the property in respect to which

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RI'Y v. CHICAGO.

457

Opinion of the Court.

such compensation shall have been paid or- deposited." The
company excepted to-the entry of that judgment.
Upon appeat to the Supreme Court of Illinois the judgment
was affirmed.
This court has no authority.to review the final judgment of
the highest court of a State in which a decision of the case
could be had, and to determine whether that judgment is in
derogation of a title, right, privilege or immunity protected
by the Constitution of the United States, unless the party,
against whom such judgment was rendered, "specially set
up or claimed" such right under that instrument. IRev. Stat.

709.
It is assigned in this court for error that the judgment of
the court of original jurisdiction had the effect to deprive the
railroad company of its property without due process of law,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. But the record does not show
that the company specially set up or claimed in the state
courts or either of them any right under the Constitution of
the United States. It does not appear that the attention even
of the trial court was called to the fact that the company, in
any form or for any purpose, invoked the protection of that
instrument. Nor does it appear from the -record that any
Federal right was specially set up or claimed in the Supreme
Court of the State. The assignments of error in the latter
court are that the Circuit Court erred in finding that the
o.mpany "was not entitled to any compensation for the land
taken in said proceeding"; in finding that the just compensation to the company "was not more than one dollar"; in failing to allow it "any sum as damages sustained by it in the
operation of its road and to its property caused by the taking
of the land in the petition described"; and that the 'amount
awarded as just c.ompensation was "grossly inadequate."
In view of these assignments of error, it is not strange that
the Supreme Court of Illinois made no reference in its opinion
to the clause of the Constitution of the United States which,
in this court for the first time, is invoked .to'sustain the propoiition that the company's property has been taken without

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

due process of law. It disposed of the case upon general
principles of law, and does not appear to have considered it
with reference to any provision of the Consfitution of the
United States. At any rate, as the company did not specially
set up or claim any right, title, privilege or immunity under
the Constitution of the United States, this court is without
jurisdiction to review the final judgment of the state court.
The writ of error is, therefore,
Diomissed.

THE .KATE.'
CERTIORARI FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 106. Argued January 6, 7, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

A New York corporation owned and operated steamships plying between
that port and Brazil. A Pennsylvania company was in the habit of supplying these ships with coal as ordered, charging the New York company
therefor upon its books, and as further security for the running indebtedness, filed specifications of lien against the vessels under a statute of New
York. Subsequently the New York company began to employ in their
business other steamers under time charter parties which required the
charterers to provide and pay for all coals furnished them, and the Pennsylvania company supplied these ships also with coals, knowing that they
were.not owned by the New York company, and understanding, although
not absolutely knowing, and not inquiring about it, that the charterers
were required to provide and pay for all needed coals. None of such
coals were supplied under orders of the master of a chartered vessel, but
the bills therefor were rendered to the New York company, which, when
the supplies were made owed nothing for the hire of the vessels. The
coals were not required in the interest of, the owners of the chartered
vessels. Proceedings having been taken in admiralty to enforce liens
for coal against the vessel, Held,
(1) That as the libellant was chargeable with knowledge of the provisions
of the charter party no lien could be asserted under maritime law
for the value of 1the coal so supplied;
1The docket title of this case is "The Berwind-White Coal Mining Company, Appellant, v. The Steamship Kate &c."

