OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

deuce, and it is clear that the trial court could properly have
instructed the jury-peremptorily to return a verdict for tile
defendant. Delaware,Lackawanna &c. Railroad Co. v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469, 472 ; Andersa Cointy lCommisioners v.
Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 24:1; North Pennsylvania Railroad v.

Commercial Bankc, 123 U. S. 727, 733.

In this view of the case

the Circuit Court of Appeals well said that it was not error
for the court to direct one juror to do what it ought to have
directed all of them to do.
Other questions are presented by the assignments of error,
but it is not necessary to discuss them. None of them furnish a ground for reversal. We perceive no error in the
record, and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

-A/firmed.

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 871. Submitted October 23, 1896.-Decded December 7,1896.

There is no error in an instruction that evidence recited by the court to the
jury leaves them at liberty to infer not only wilfulness, but malice aforethought,..if the evidence is as so recited.
There is no error in an instruction on a trial for murder that the intent necessary to constitute malice aforethought need not have existed for any
particular time before the act of killing, but that it may spring up at the
instant, and may be inferred from the fact of killing.
The language objected to in the sixth assignment of error is nothing more
than the statement, in another form, of the familiar proposition that
every man is presumed to intend the natural and probable consequences
of his own act.
Mere provocative words, however ag.raiating, are not sufficient to reduce
a crime from murder to manslaughter.
To establish a case of justifiable homicille it must appear that the assault
made upon the prisoner was such as would lead a reasonable person to
believe that his life was in peril.
There was no error in the instruction that the prisoner was bound to retreat
as far as- he could before slaying his assailant. Bear4 v. United States,

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
158 U. S. 550, and Alberty v. United States, 162 U. S. 499, distinguished
from this case.
Flight of the accused is competent evidence against him, as having a tendency to establish guilt; and an instruction to that effect in substance is
not error, although inaccurate in some other respects which could not
have misled the jury.
The refusal to charge that where there is a probability of innocence there
Is a reasonable doubt of guilt is not error, when the court has already
charged that the jury could not find the defendant guilty unless they were
satisfied from the testimony that the crime was established beyond a reasonable doubt.
The seventeenth and eighteenth assignments were taken to instructions
given to the jury after the main charge was delivere.d, and when the jury
bad returned to the court, apparently for further instructions. These
Instructions were quite lengthy and were, in substance, that in a large
proportion of cases absolute certainty could not be expected; that although the verdict must be the verdict of each individual juror, and
not a mere acquiescence in the conlusion of his fellows, yet they should
examine the question submitted with candor and with a proper regard
and deference to the opinions of each other; that it was their duty to
decide the case If they could conscientiously do so ; that they should
listen, with a disposition to be convinced, to each other's arguments;
that, If much the larger number were for conviction, a dissenting juror
should consider whether his doubt was a reasonable one which made no
impression upon the minds of so many men, equally honest, equally intelligent with himself. If, upon the other hand, the majority was for
acquittal, the minority ought to ask themselves whether they might
not reasonably doubt the correctness of. a judgment which was not concurred In by the majority. Held, that there was no error.

Tim facts constituting the offence for which Allen was indicted are set forth in Allen v. United Stdte, i50 U. S. 551,
and 157 U. S. 675. The rulings passed upon in the present case
are stated in the opinion of the court.

No appearance for plaintiff in error.
Mr. ,Solicitor General for defendants in error.
M-. JusneE BriowK delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas sen-

tencing the plaintiff in error to death for the murder-of Philip

OCTOBER. TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Henson, a white man, in the Cherokee Nation of the Indian
Territory. The defendant was tried and convicted in 1893,
and upon such conviction being set aside by this court, 150
U. S. 551, was again tried and convicted in 1894. The case
was again reversed, 157 U. S. 675, when Ailen was tried for
the third time and convicted, and this writ of error was sued
out.
The facts are so fully set forth in the previous reports of
the case that it is unnecessary to repeat them here.
We are somewhat embarrassed in the consideration of this
case by the voluminousness of the charge, and of the exceptions taken thereto, as well as by the absence of a brief on the
part of the plaintiff in error; but the principal assignments of
error, set forth in the record, will be noticed in this opinion.
1. The third assignment of error is taken to certain language in the charge, the material portion of which is as
follows:
"If you believe the story as narrated by the two Erne boys,
who testified as witnesses, is true - that is, that the defendant
went up to the fence with his pistol; that he went through the
wire fence, and went out in the wheat field where Philip
Henson was, and met him, first halloed at him, placed his
pistol. upon the fence and stopped the boys, and then went
through the wire fence and went out to where he was, and
struck him first in the mouth with his left fist, and at the
same time undertook to fire upon him, and that that firing
was prevented by the action of Hlenson in taking hold of the
pistol, and it went off into the ground, and then he fired at
him and struck him in the side, and then he fired at him and
struck him in the back, you have a state of facts which would
authorize you to say that the killing was done wilfully; and,
not only that, but to say that it was done with malice aforethought, because that state of case, if that be true, would
show the doing of a wrongful act, an illegal act, without just
cause or excuse, and in the absence of mitigating facts to
reduce The grade of the crime."
The learned judge was stating in this connection the theory
of the prosecution, and if the facts were as stated by the

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Ernes, there was no error in saying to the jury, not that they
were bound to, but that they were at liberty to, infer not only
wilfulness but malice aforethought.
2. The fourth assignment was to the following language:
"How can you find a deliberate intent to kill? Do you
have to see whether or not the man had that intent or not in
his mind a year or month or day or an hour? Not'at all, for
in this age of improved- weapons, when a man can discharge
a gun in the twinkling of an eye, if you see a man draw ofle
of these weapons and fire it, and the man toward whom he
presents it falls dead, you have a-deliberate intent to kill, as
manifested ly the way he did that-act. You have the existence of a deliberate intent, though it may spring up on the
spur of the moment -as it were, spring up cotemporaneous
with the doing of it- evidenced by shooting of the man, if
the act was one he could not do under the law and then claim
it was manslaughter, or an act that he could not do in selfdefence from the fact that it was done without just cause
or excuse, or in the absence of mitigating facts, and that is
precisely the definition of this characteristic of murder, known
as malice aforethought. It does not as I have already told
you, necessarily import any special malevolence towards the
individual slain, but also includes the case of a generally depraved, wicked and malicious spirit, a heart regardless of social
duty, and a mind deliberately bent on mischief. It imports
premeditation. Malice, says the law, is an intent of the mind
and heart."
The substance of this instruction is that the intent necessary
to constitute malice aforethought need not have existed for
any particular time before the act of killing, but that it may
spring up at the instant and may be inferred from the fact
of killing. This is within the authorities as applied to the
common law crime of murder, though where the crime is
classified as in some States, proof of deliberate premeditation
is necessary to constitute murder in the first degree. United
States v. Cornell, 2 Mason, 91; People v. Clark, 7 N.Y. 385;
Whart. on Homicide, § 33; Whart. on Crim. Law, 10th ed.
§117.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

3. The sixth assignment is to the following language:
"The law says we have no power to ascertain the certain
condition of a man's mind. The best we can do is to infer
it more or less satisfactorily from his acts. A person is presuined to intend what he does. A man who performs an act
which it is known will produce a particular result is from our
common experience presumed to have anticipated that result
and to have intended it. Therefore we have a right to say,
ard the law says, that when a homicide is committed by
weapons indicating design that it is not necessary to prove
that such design existed for any definite period before the
fatal blow was fired. From the very fact of a blow being
struck, from the very fact that a fatal bullet was fired, we
have the right to infer as a presumption- of fact that the blow
was intended prior to the striking, although at A period of
time inappreciably distant."
This is nothing *morethan a statement of the familiar proposition that every man is presumed to intend the natural and
probable consequences of his own act. 1 Greenl. Ev. § 18;
Regina v. Jones, 9 0. & P. 258; Regina v. Rill, 8 0. & P.
274; Regina v. Beard, 8 0. & P. 143 ; People v. ferrick, 13
Wend. 87, 9 1.
4. The eighth assignment is taken to the following definition
of manslaughter"It is the killing of a man unlawfully and wilfully, but
without malice aforethought. Malice aforethaught, as I have
defined it to you, must be excluded from it; that is, the doing
of a wrongful act without just cause or excuse and in the
absence of mitigating facts in such a way as to show a heart
void of social duty-and a mind fatally bent upon mischief must
be out of the case. If that is driven out of the case, then if it
is a crime at all, it must come under this statute; it must
come under this definition of the crime of manslaughter., The
common law, which I will read to you, defines it in the same
way. It tells you in a little broader terms what kind of conL
ditions it springs out of. Speaking of voluntary manslaughter,
it says it is the wilful and unlawful killing of another on sudden
quarrel or in the heat of passion. Let us see what is meant

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by this definition. The party who is killed, at the time of
the killing, must offer some provocation to produce a certain
condition of mind. Now, what is the character of that provocation thaf can be recognized by the law as being sufficient
to reduce the grade of the crime from murder to manslaughter?
He cannot produce it by mere words, because mere words
alone do not excuse even a simple assault. Any words offered
at the time do not reduce the grade of the killing from murder
to manslaughter. He must be doing some act- that is, the
deceased, Philip Henson in this case, the party killed - which
at the time is of a character that would so inflame the mind
of the party who does the killing as that the law contemplates
he does not act deliberately, but his mind is in a state of passion;
in a heat of passion where he is incapable of deliberating."
There is no error in this instruction. It is well settled by
the authorities that mere words, however aggravating, are not
sufficient to reduce the crime from murder to manslaughter.
commonwealth v. York, 9- Met. (Mass.) 93, 103; Whart. on
Homicide, § 393; Whart. on Orim. Law, 10th ed. § 455a.
5. The ninth alleged error turned upon the statement made
by the court of the circumstances under which the killing
would be justifiable :
"It does not mean that defendant was assaulted in a slight
way, or that you can kill a man for a slight attack. The law
of self-defence is a law of proportions as well as a law of
necessity, and it is only danger that is deadly in its character,
or that may produce great bodily harm, against which you:
can exercise a deadly attack. If he is attacked by another in
such a way as to denote a purpose to take away his life, or
to do him some great bodily harm from which death or permanent injury may follow, in such a case he may lawfully
kill the assailant. When? Provided he use all the means in
his power otherwise to save his own life or prevent the intended harm, such as retreating as far as he can, or disabling
him without killing him, if it be in his power. The act coming from the assailant must be a deadly act, or an act that
would produce great violence to the person, under this proposition. It means an act that is hurled against him, and that
VOL. CLxI v-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

he has not created it, or created the necessity for it by his
own wrongful, deadly or dangerous conduct -conduct threatening life. It must be an act where lie cannot avoid the consequences. If he can, he must avoid them, if he can reasonably
do so with due regard to his own safety."
It is clear that to establish a case of justifiable homicide it
must appear that something more than an ordinary assault was
made upon the prisoner; it must also appear that the assault was such as would lead a reasonable person to believe
that his life was in peril. WVallace v. United States, 162
U. S. 466.
Nor is there anything in the instruction of the court that
the prisoner was bound to retreat as far as he could before
slaying his assailant that conflicts with the ruling of this court
in Beard v. United States, 158 U. S. 550. That was the case
of an assault upon the defendant upon his own premises, and
it was held that the obligation to retreat was no greater than
it would have been if he had been assailed in his own hofise.
So, too, in the case of Alberty v. United States, 162 U. S.499,
the defendant found thfe deceased trying to obtain access to his
wife's chamber through a window, in the night time, and it
was held that he might repel the attempt by force, and was
under no obligation to retreat if the deceased attacked him
with a knife. The general duty to retreat instead of killing
when attacked was not touched upon in these cases. Whart.
on Homicide, § 485.
6. The fourteenth assignment is to the following language
of the court upon the subject of the flight of the accused after
the homicide: "Now,'then, you consider his conduct at the
time of the killing and his 3onduct afterwards. If he fled, if
he left the country, if he sought to avoid arrest, that is a fact
that you are to take into consideration, against him, because
the law says unless it is satisfactorily explained - and he may
explain-it upon some theory, and you are to say whether there
is any effort to explain it in this case -if it is unexplained
the law says it is a fact that may be taken into account
against the party charged with the crime of murder upon the
theory that I have named, upon the existence of this monitor

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

called conscience that teaches us to know whether we have
done right or wrong in a given case."
In the case of Hickory v. United States, 160 U. S. 408, 422,
where the same question, as to the weight to be given to flight
as evidence of guilt, arose, the court charged the jury that
"the law recognizes another proposition as true, and it is that
'the wicked flee, when no man pursueth, but the innocent are
as bold as a lion.' That is a self-evident proposition that has
been recognized so often by mankind that we can take it as
an axiom and apply it to this case." It was held that this
was error, and was tantamouat to saying to the jury that
flight creatbd a legal presumption of guilt, so strong and
conclusive, that it was the duty of the jury to act on it as
an axiomatic truth. So, also, in the case of Alberty v. United
States, 162 U. S.499, 509, the court used the same language,
and added that from the fact of absconding the jury might
infer the fact of guilt, and that flight was a silent admission
by the defendant that" he was unwilling or unable to face the
case against him, and was in some sense feeble or strong, as
the case might be, a confession. This was also held to be
error. But in neither of these cases was it intimated that the
flight of the accused was not a circumstance proper to be laid
before the jury as having a tendency to prove his guilt. Several authorities were quoted in the ilickory case, (p. 417,) as
tending to establish this proposition. Indeed, the law is entirely well settled that the flight of the accused is competent
evidence against him as having a tendency to establish his
guilt. Whart. on Homicide, § 710; People v. Pitcher, 15
Michigan, 397.
This was the substance of the above instruction, and although not accurate in all its parts we do not think it could
have misled the jury.
7. In the fifteenth assignment exception is talen to the fol]owing instruction: " You will understand that your first duty
in the case is to reject all evidence that you may find to be
false; all evidence that you may find to be fabricated, because
it is worthless; and if it is purposely and intentionally invoked
by the defendant it is evidence against him; it is the basis for

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

a presumption against him, because the law says that be who
resorts to perjury, he who resorts to subornation of perjury to
accomplish an end, this is against him, and you may take such
action as the basis of a presumption of guilt." There was certainly no error in instructing the jury to disregard evidence
that was bound to be false, and the further charge that false
testimony, )knowingly and purposely invoked by defendant,
might be used against him, is but another method of stating
the principle that the fabrication of testimony raises a presumption against the party guilty of such practice. 1 Phillips'
Evidence, 448; State v. lVilliams, 27 Vermont, (1 Williams,)
724; 3 Russell on Crimes, 6th ed. 358.
8. The sixteenth assignment was to the refusal of the court
to charge the jury that where there is a probability of innocence there is a reasonable doubt of guilt. In the case of
Cofflr v. lirited States, 156 U. S. 432, 452, it was held that a
refusal of the court to charge the jury upon the subject of the
presumption of innocence was not met by a charge that they
could not convict unless the evidence showed guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt.
In the case under consideration, -however, the court had
already charged the jury that they could not find the defendant guilty unless they were satisfied from the testimony that
the crime was established beyond a reasonable doubt. That
this meant, "first, that a party starts into a trial, though
accused by the grand jury with the crime of murder, or any
other crime, with the presumption of innocence in his favor.
That stays with him until it is driven out of the case by the
testimony. It is driven out of the case when the evidence
shows, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the crime as charged
has been committed, or, that a crime has been committed.
Whenever the proof shows, beyond a reaso nable doubt, the
existence of a crime, then the presumption of innocence disappears from the case. That exists up to the time that it is
driven out in that way by proof to that extent." The court
having thus charged upon the subject of the presumption of
innocence, could not be required to repeat the charge in a
separate instruction at the request of the defendant.

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

9. The seventeenth and eighteenth assignments were taken
to instructions given to the jury after the main charge was
delivered, and when the jury had returned to the court, apparently for further instructions. These instructions were
quite lengthy and were, in substance, that in a large proportion of cases absolute certainty could not be expected; that
although the verdict must be the verdict of each individual
juror, and not a mere acquiescence in the conclusion of his
fellows, yet they should examine the question submitted with
candor and with a proper regard and deference to the opinions
of each other; that it was their duty to decide the case if they
could conscientiously do so; that they should listen, with a
disposition to be convinced, to each other's arguments; that,
if much the larger number were for conviction, a dissenting
juror should consider whether his doubt'was a reasonable one
which made no impression upon the minds of so many men,
equally honest, equally intelligent with himself. If, upon the
other hand, the majority was for acquittal, the minority ought
to ask themselves whether they might not reasonably doubt
the correctness of a judgment which was not concurred in by
the majority. These instructions were taken literally from a
charge in a criminal case which was, approved of by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in Commonwealt7 v. Tuey, 8
Cush. 1, and by the Supreme Court of Connecticut in State v.
Smith, 49 Connecticut, 376, 386.
While, unloubtedly, the verdict of the jury should represent
the opinion of each individual juror, it by no means follows
that opinions may not be changed by conference in the juryroom. The very object of the jury system is to secure unanimity by a comparison of views, and by arguments among the
jurors themselves. It certainly cannot be the law that each
juror should not listen with deference to the arguments and
with a distrust of his own judgment, if he finds a large majority of the jury taking a different view of the case from what
he does himself. It cann ot be that each juror should go to
the jury-room with a blind determination that the verdict shall
represent his opinion of the case at that moment; or, that he
should close his ears to the arguments of men who are equally

OCTOBER TERME, 1896.
Syllabus.

honest and intelligent as himself. There was no error in these
instructions.
Several other assignments were made, to which it is unnecessary to call attention.
For the reasons above stated the judgment of the. court
below will be
.Affirmed.

WILLARD v. WOOD.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No.61. A'rgued October 26, 2t, 196.-Decded "Xovember 0, 1896.

Remedies are determined by the law of the forum; and, in the District of
Columbia the liability of a person-by reason of his accepting a conveyance of real estate, subject to a mortgage which he is to assume and pay,
is subject tothe limitation prescribed as to simple contracts, and is barred
by the application in equity, by analogy, of the bar of the statute at law.
The covenant attempted to be enforced in this suit was entered into in the
District of Columbia, between residents thereof, and, although Its performance was required elsewhere, the liability for non-performance was
governed by the law of-the obligee's domiil, operating to bar the obligation, unless suspended by the absence of the obligor.
If a plaintiff mistakes his remedy, in the absence of any statutory provision
saving his rights, or where from any cause a plaintiff becomes nonsuit,
or the action abates or is, dismissed, and during the pendency of the
action the limitation runs, the remedy is barred.
Courts of equity withhold relief from those who have delayed the assertion
of their claims for an unreasonable time; and this doctrine may be applied in the discretion of the court, even though the laches are not pleaded
or the bill demurred to.
laches may arise from failure in diligent prosecution of a suit, which may
have the same consequences as if no suit had been instituted.
In view of the laches disclosed by the record, that pearly sixteen years had
elapsed since Bryan entered into the covenant with Wood, when, on March
10, 1890, over eight years after the issue of the first sbbpcena, alias process was issued against Bryan and service had; that for seven years of
this period he had resided in the District; that for seven years he had
been a citizen of Illinois as he still remained; that by the law of Illinois the mortgagee may sue at law a grantee, who, by the terms of an
absolute conveyance from the mortgagor, assumes the payment of the
mortgage debt; that Christmas did not bring a suit against Bryan in IlIIi-

