NOBLE v. MTITCHELL.
Syllabus.

guage of the instruction was entitled to great weight. Proof
of uniform good character should raise a doubt of guilty
knowledge, and the prisoner would be entitled to the benefit
of that doubt. Proof of this kind may sometimes be the only
mode by which an innocent man can repel the presumption
of guilt arising from the possession of stolen goods. It is not
proof of innocence, although it may be sufficient to raise a
doubt of guilt. The court seemed to think it was entitled to
no weight, unless, taking the language used in its most favorable aspect, there was doubt of his guilt. A strong prima
,facie case was made out by the prosecution, but it was not
conclusive. If the court had told the jury that his good character should be taken into consideration by them, and was
entitled to much weight, a reasonable doubt of the prisoner's
guilt might have been raised which would have resulted in
his acquittal."
Similar conclusions were reached in Commonwealth v.
Leonard, 140 Mass. 470; leine v. Commonwealth, 91 Penn.
St. 145; Remen v. The People, 43 N. Y. 6; People v. Garbutt, 17 Michigan, 29; Wharton on Crim. Law, vol. 1, § 636.
We find no errors disclosed by the other assignments.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the cause
-remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and
award a new trial.
MR. JUsTIcE BREWER concurred in the judgment.
MR.JUSTIoE BRowx dissented.

NOBLE v. MITCHELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 101.

Submitted October 29, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

The construction by the Supreme Court of Alabama of §§ 1205, 1206 and
1207 of the code of that State, regulating the subject of fire and marine
insurance within the State by companies not incorporated therein, is,
under the circumstances presented by this case, binding on this court.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
The decision below upon the question whether there was adequate proof
that the policy in controversy in this case was issued by a foreign corporation is not subject to review here on writ of error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John M. Chilton and -Yr. A. A. Wiley for plaintiffs in
error.
.Mr. Charles Wilkinson for defendant in error.
M[R. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

Article II of Chapter V, Title 12, of the Code of Alabama,
regulates the subject of fire and marine insurance within the
State by companies not incorporated therein. It is required
by section 1199 that such companies shall pay annually into
the treasury the sum of one hundred dollars. Section 1200
directs that each of such corporations must file with the state
auditor a certified copy of its charter and a statement setting
forth certain items in relation.to its business condition on the
31st day of December next preceding; and, by section 1201,
such, corporations are required to possess a cash capital of at
least one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and are obliged
to file a written instrument consenting to service of process
ufpon any agent. of such company within the State. Upon
compliance with all the requirements of the article, the auditor, if satisfied that the affairs of such company are in sound
condition, is required to issue to it a license to transact the
business of insurance within the State until the 15th day of
January next ensuing.
Sections 1205, 1206 and 1207 of the same article read as
follows:
"SEc. 1205. Any person who solicits insurance on behalf
of an insurance company, not incorporated by the laws of this
State, or who, other than for himself, takes or transmits an
application for insurance, a premium of insurance or a policy
of insurance to or from such company, or in any way gives
notice that he will receive or transmit the same, or receives or
delivers a policy of insurance of such company, or who in-

NOBLE v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

spects any risk, or makes or forwards a diagram of any building, or does any other thing in the making of a contract of
insurance, for or with such company, other than for himself,
or examines into, adjusts or aids in examining into or adjusting
any loss for such company, whether such acts are done at the
instance of such company, or any broker, or other person,
shall be held to be the agent of the company for which the
act is done, and such company held to be doing business in
this State.
"SEc. 1206. Any person acting as agent of any -foreign insurance company which has not received the license from the
auditor aboe provided for, or shall so act after its expiration,
is liable personally to the holder of any policy of insurance
in respect to which he so actel as agent for any loss covered
by it; and shall forfeit, for each offence, the sum of five hundred dollars, to be sued for in the Circuit Court where the
delinquency occurs, by the solicitor, in the name of the State
and paid into the state treasury, less twenty-five per cent
retained by the solicitor for his services.
"Sgo. 1207. The term ' insurance company,' as used in this
article, includes every company, corporation, association or
partnership organized for the purpose of transacting the business of insurance."
The action below was originally instituted in a Circuit
Court of Alabama by Mitchell, a citizen of Alabama, to recover from the defendants, a firm of insurance agents, doing
business in the city of Montgomery, the amount of a loss
under a policy of insurance covering a stock of merchandise
owned by the plaintiff, which policy was procured by the
defendants from a corporation known as the Fairmount Insurance Association of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The corporation in question was not incorporated under the laws of
Alabama, and at the time of the issue of the policy had not
been licensed to do an insurance businesd within that State.
From a verdict and judgment against them the defendants
prosecuted error. The Supreme Court of the State affirmed
the judgment. 100 Alabama, 519.
The highest court of the State having affirmed the validity
vOL. cLxiv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the state statute and enforced its provisions against the
plaintiff in. error, despite his objection duly made that such
statute was repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, a writ of error was allowed, and the cause is here for
review.
In Hlooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, this court held that
a statute of the State of California which made it a misdemeanor for a person, in that State, to procure insurance for
a resident in the State from An insurance company not incorporated under its laws, and which company had not filed the
bond required by the laws of the State, was not a regulation
of commerce, and did not conflict with the Constitution of the
United States. The doctrine of earlier decisions of this court
with reference to contracts of insurance, namely, that the business of insurance is not commerce, and that a contract of
insurance is not, in the constitutional sense of the words, an
instrumentality of' commerce, was reiterated and held applicable to a marine policy. This court said (p. 655):
"The State of California has the power to exclude foreign
insurance companies altogether from her territory, whether
they were formed for the purpose of doing a fire or a marine
business. She has the power, if she allows any such companies to enter her confines, to determine the conditions on
which the entry shall be made.. And, as a necessary consequence of her possession of these powers, she has the zight to
enforce any conditions imposed by her laws as preliminary
to the transaction of business within her confines by a foreign
corporation, whether the business is to be carried on through
officers or through -ordinary agents of the company, and she
has also the further right to prohibit a citizen from contracting within her jurisdiction with any foreign company which
has not acquired the privilege of engaging in business therein,
either in his own behalf or through an agent empowered to
that end. The power to exclude embraces the power to regulate, to enact and enforce all legislation in regard to things
done within the territory of the State which may be directly
or incidentally requisite in order to render the enforcement
of the conceded power efficacious to the fullest extent, subject

NOBLE v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

always, of course, to the paramount authority of the Constitution of the United States."
It inevitably results from this ruling that the State of
Alabama, in virtue of the power possessed by it of excluding
foreign fire insurance corporations from its jurisdiction, could.
lawfully punish or regulate, by the imposition of civil liability, or otherwise, the doing of acts within the territory of the
State calculated to neutralize and make ineffective the statute
which prescribed conditions upon which alone the right existed in a foreign insurance corporation. to do business within
the State.
It is conceded that in so far as the Alabama law forbids
foreign insurance corporations from doing business within
the State in violation of the state law, such law does not
conflict with the Constitution of the United States;. but the
claim is made that since the statute not only regulates foreign corporations, but declares that the term "insurance coml)any" embraces every company, corporation, association or
partnership organized for the purpose of transacting an insurance business, therefore it violates section 2, article IV, of the
Constitution, guaranteeing that "the Citizens of each State.
shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens
in the several States."
The fact that foreign corporations are not "citizens,"
within the meaning of the Constitution, it is said was the
reason of the ruling in Hooper v. California,hence that case
does not apply to a state law which includes within its inhibitions those who are citizens. We need not, however, express
any opinion as to the correctness of this asserted distinction,
since, even if it be well founded, it has no relevancy to the
question before us. The action below was predicated upon
the fact that the business of insurance alleged on had been
done by a foreign corporation. The Supreme Court of Alabama in interpreting the statute held that the provision as to
foreign corporations was distinct and separable from those
concerning associations or partnerships. It said:
"It is contended, however, by section 1207 of the code, sz'ra,
these provisions of the law are made to include ' associations'

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and 'partnerships ' as well as ' corporations' and in this respect
discriminates against citizens of another State who may compose such ' partnerships,' and in this respect is violative of the
constitutional provision which declares that 'the citizens of
each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several States.' We construe section 1207 as
amendatory of the sections to which it refers, so as to substitute the words Icorporation, association or partnership' for
the words 'insurance company.' Thus construed, section 1205,
sujra, would read as follows: 'Any person who solicits insurance on behalf of a corporation, association or partnership not
incorporated by the laws of this State,' etc., and section 1206,
supra, would read: ' Any person acting as agent of any foreign corporEtion, association or partnership which has,' etc.
"By holding that section 1207 is amendatory of the other
sections referred to in the manner declared, sections 1205 and
1206 are separable in their provisions, and, so far as they are
made to apply to and are enforced against 'foreign corporations,' they do not contravene any provision of the state constitution or the Constitution of the United States. 8 Wall. 8upra;
Baldwin v. Franks,120 U. S. 678; S. & N. 1R. 1?. Co. v. -Mar-is,65 Alabama, 193 ; M C'rearyv. The State, 73 Alabama, 4801
Powell v. Te State, 69" Alabama, 10; Vines v. T]ie State, 67
Alabama, 73. The construction of the statute is one of difficulty, and the one given to it is not altogether satisfactory, but
we are of opinion the language used in section 1207, considered
in connection with other sections to which it refers, admits
of the interpretation given to it, and when the statute is
attacked upon constitutional grounds it is our duty to avoid
such a construction, if it can be done consistently, as will
defeat the entire legislation of the State upon questions
embraced in these statutes relating to insurance companies."
This construction of the Alabama statute, although made
by the Supreme Court of that State, it is urged is erroneous,
and we are invited to disregard it; but manifestly the interpretation of a statute of the State of Alabama by the Supreme Court thereof under the circihnstances here presented
is binding on us. Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163

UNITED STATES v. ELLIOTT.
Syllabus.

U. S. 63, 73; Union Bank v. Loui ville, New Albany &c.
Railway, 163 U. S. 325, 331.
Reading, then, into the Alabama statute the construction
given thereto by the court of last resort of that State, the argument of the plaintiff in error amounts to this, that, althoagh
it is admitted that the law of the State of Alabama regulating
the doing of insurance business by foreign corporations is not
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, nevertheless we should hold that it does violate that Constitution,
because of another and separate law of Alabama, which it
is asserted would be unconstitutional if it were before us
for consideration. Of course, to state this proposition is to
answer it.
It is suggested that there is no adequate proof that the
policy in controversy was issued by a foreign corporation.
This involves a mere question of fact, which was submitted
to the jury by the trial court, and as to which the Supreme
Court of Alabama said there was evidence sufficient for the
consideration of the jury, and which is not subject to review
here on writ of error. Dower v. Rihard8,151 U. S. 658; ire Buchanan, 158 U. S. 31.
dissented.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

UNITED STATES v. ELLIOTT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 37. Argued October 19, 1596.-Decided November 30, 1696.

A tract of land in South Carolina was sold in 1863 under the direct tax acts
for non-payment of the direct tax to the United States, and was bid in
by the United States. It was then subdivided into two lots, A and B.
Lot A, the most yaluable, was resold at public auction to E who had a
life estate in it, and it was conveyed to him. Lot B was also resold, but
the present controversy relates only to Lot A. This lot was purchased
by a person who had been a tenant for life of the whole tract before the
tax sale. After the purchase and during his lifetime it was seized under
execution and sold as his property. No part of the property has come

