OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

WILSON v. KIESEL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF -UTAH.
No. 189.

Argued and submitted November 3, 1896. - Decided November 30, 1896.

The complaint in this case sought to compel a number of stockholders in
a corporation severally to pay their respective alleged unpaid subscriptions to the capital stock of a corporation, the amounts to be applied In
satisfaction of a judgment in plaintiff's favor. Among the stockholders
so proceeded against were K., C. and A. As to them the allegations
were that each subscribed for ifty shares of the corporation, of the par
value of one hundred dollars each; and that each was liable for five
thousand dollars, for which recovery was sought. Held, that the amount
involved for each subscription did not reach the amount necessary to
give this court jurisdiction; that the subscriptions could not be united
for that purpose; and that even if they could, there having been a cross
bill in the case, the judgment upon which must affect rights of parties
not before the court, the court, could not take jurisdiction.

IMOTION to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr.Abbot R. Heywood for the motion submitted on his
brief.
.A&. Ogden Hiles opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTI E FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Wilson recovered judgment against the. Ogden Power Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the Territory
of Utah, for $22,405.16i on which an exeoutiQ was issued and
returned wholly unsatisfied, whereupon he filed a bill in the
Fourth Judicial District Court for the Territory of Utah,
County of Weber, against the company; and against Kiesel,
Anderson and Carnahan- and many others, to compel them
severally to pay their respective unpaid subscriptions to the
capital stock of the corporation to be applied in satisfaction
of the judgment. Defendants Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson were charged with having each subscribed for fifty shares

WILSON v. KIESEL.
Opinion of the Court.

of the par value of one hundred dollars each and with being
each liable for five thousand dollars. They answered denying that there was anything due from them to the corporation,
and alleging that each of them had paid in full and at par
value the amount of the stock subscribed by him; and averring, among other things, that plaintiff was also a subscriber
and had paid no part of his subscription; and that Wilson
had long before sold and assigned the said judgment and now
had no interest therein; and by Way of cross complaint
alleged that said judgment was entered by unauthorized consent and was fraudulent and void for various reasons set forth;
that it had been sold and transferred to third parties; and
that if the action of Wilson against the company had been
tried, no greater sum than two thousand dollars would have
been found due; to which cross complaint plaintiff filed an
answer.
The record discloses that some twenty-two of the other
defendants filed their several answers to the complaint, but
does not contain those answers. The cause was referred to
a special master to take testimony and report his findings
thereon, and he subsequently filed a report containing twentyone findings of fact, embracing a finding that defendants
Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson had paid their subscriptions
to the capital stock in full, and to these the master added
twenty-nine further findings, making fifty in all. As a conclusion of law the master recommended that the court 'find
that plaintiff was entitled to a judgment for the sum of
$16,500.52; that some thirty-two named defendants, not including Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson, should be, respectively, ordered to pay their unpaid subscriptions in the
amounts stated; and that said amounts should be applied in
payment of the judgment -and costs. A decree was thereupon rendered in favor of plaintiff, April 29, 1893, making
the findings and. conclusions of the master the findings and
conclusions of the District Cour and awarding judgment
against dach of pome thirty defezidants for amounts stated
severally and sepaiately' as to each-, and in favor of some
seven defendants under a'stipulatioi that they had paid their

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

several subscriptions, and also in favor of defendants Kiesel,
Carnahan and Anderson. Plaintiff moved for a new trial as
to Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson, which was denied, and he
appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory from the
judgment in favor of Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson and
from the order overruling the motion for a new trial. The
record does not contain the appeal of the other defendants
from the judgment which had been rendered in favor of
plaintiff and against them, but itappears from the opilion of
the Supreme Court of the Territory that they did so appeal,
and that all the contesting defendants were before that court.
On January 29, 1894, the judgment of the District Court
on plaintiff's appeal was affirmed with costs. On the same
day the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory was
filed in the case, a copy of which was transmitted in accordance with our rule, is referred to by counsel for appellant as
part of the record, and as such may serve to supply certain
marked deficiencies otherwise existing therein. From this
opinion it appears that plaintiff appealed from the judgment
in favor of Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson, and that twentyfour other defendants appealed from the judgment against
them. The Supreme Court, after rehearsing the facts in the
case, stated the question on plaintiff's appeal to be whether
Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson had paid their subscriptions
to the capital stock of the company as contended on their
behalf; and that the questions raised on the appeal of the
other defendants were whether plaintiff while a delinquent

subscriber himself could maintain this action in equity against
other delinquent subscribers; whether the judgment at law
in Wilson's favor was fraudulent and void; and whether if the
judgment was valid plaintiff could maintain an action on it as
the real party in interest. The Supreme Court held that a
delinquent subscriber could maintain the action but must contribute pariyassit with the other subscribers to the payment
of the amount due him; that the judgment was not conclusive
on the subscribers, ought to have been reduced by a very
large amount, and would have to be reversed in order to
afford the subscribers the opportunity to test the validity of

WILSON v. KIESEL.
Opinion of the Court.

Wilson's claim against the corporation; and that Wilson was
not the real party in interest at the beginning of the action
and could not maintain it in his own name, which latter conclusion called for the affirmance of the judgment in favor of
Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson, and the absolute reversal of
the judgment against the other defendants and the remanding
of the cause to the court below with directions to dismiss the
action, it being, therefore, unnecessary to pass on the question
as to whether or not Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson had
paid their subscriptions to the capital stock of the company.
While the judgment of affirmance appears in the record, the
judgment of reversal with directions does not. From the judgment of affirmance, the plaintiff appealed to this court and
gave bond running to Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson, or
either of them, and citation was issued to Kiesel, Carnahan
and Anderson only.
It is evident from the foregoing statement that this appeal
must be dismissed. The complaint alleged that Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson each subscribed to fifty.shares of the
capital stock of the Ogden Power Company of the par value
of one hundred dollars each, and that each was liable for five
thousand dollars for which recovery was sought. This did
not reach the jurisdictional amount. Chapman v. .andley,
151 U. S. 443.
It is tru6 that these defendants contended that the amount
due from each on their several subscriptions had been paid by
a conveyance of land which was owned by them jointly, but
the matter in dispute was the liability of each for five thousand dollars, and the fact that their several subscriptions may
have been paid with joint property would not make the question of the liability of each a question of the liability of all,
and they did not seek a recovery over. But it is said that
the matter in dispute far exceeded the jurisdictional limit,
because Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson had filed a cross complaint seeking to set aside and cancel Wilson's judgment
against the Ogden Power Company, which was a judgment
for $22,405.16. This contention, however, only demonstrates
that the appeal must be dismissed for want of proper parties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

as the other defendants were directly and vitally interested in
the disposition of the cross complaint and necessary parties
to the appeal. Not having been made such, and there being
no summons and severance, or the equivalent, the appeal cannot be sustained. Davis v. J.ercantile Trust Co., 152 U. S.
590; lardee v. Vilsom, 146 U. S. 179.
Indeed this objection is fatal in any view, for while this
record is manifestly inadequate and insufficient, it does appear
and is conceded that the other defendants were before the
Supreme Court of the Territory on their own appeal as well
as Kiesel, Carnahan and Anderson on Wilson's appeal, and
that the case was disposed of as to all of them on a ground
common to all. We cannot be required to consider such a
case by piecemeal, and if we were to take jurisdiction and
determine the questions -which have been argued at the bar,
we should, in fact, be disposing of matters affecting parties
not before us and who have been afforded no opportunity to
be heard.
Apopeal dismissed.

FOWLER v. LAMSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 83

Argued and submitted November 9, 1596. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

The printed record in this case is so fragmentary in its nature as to leave
no foundation for the court to even guess that there was a Federal question in the case, or that it was decided by the state court against thd
right set up here by the plaintiffs in orror; and, under the well settled
rule that where a case is brought to'this court on error or appeal from a
judgment of a state court, unless it appear in the record that a Federal
question was raised in the state court before entry of final judgment in
the case, this court is without jurisdiction, It must. be dismissed.

Tir

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. E. F. Tiompson. for plaintiffs.in, error. .Mr. G. W.
t
WilDelamater, Afr. Frank H. Clark ad Mr. William -.
kins8 were on his brief.

