OCTOBER TERMA,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 47.- Argued May 5, 1896. -Decided

November 30, 1896.

The clause of the statute of frauds, which requires a memorandum in
writing of "any agreement which is not to bd performed within the
space of one year from the making thereof," applies only to agreements
which, according to the intention of the parties, as shown by the terms
of their contract, cannot be fully performed within a year; and not to an
agreement which may be fully performed within the year, although the
time of performance is uncertain, and may probably extend, and may
have been expected by the parties to extend, and does in fact extend,
beyond the year.
An oral agreement between a railroad company and the owner of a mill, by
which it is agreed that, if he will furnish the ties and grade the ground
for a switch opposite his mill, the company will put down the iron rails
and maintain the switch for his benefit for shipping purposes as long as
he needs it, is not within the statute of frauds, as an agreement not to
be performed within a year.
.Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580, doubted.
The provisions of the statute of frauds of the State of Texas concerning
sales or leases of real estate do not include grants of easements.

THIS was an action brought M ay 9, 1892, by Warner against
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, a corporation created
by the laws of the United States, upon a contract made in
1874, by which it was agreed between the parties that if the
plaintiff would grade the ground for a switch, and pu't on the
ties, at a certain point on the defendant's railroad, the defendant would put down the rails and maintain the switch for
the plaintiff's benefit for shipping purposes as long as he
needed it. The defendant pleaded that the contract was oral,
and within the statute of frauds, because it was "not to be
performed within one year from the making thereof," and
because it was "a grant or conveyance by this defendant of
an estate of inheritance, and for a term of more than one year,
in lands.

'

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY.

419

Statement of the Case.

At the trial, the plaintiff, being called as witness in his own
behalf, testified that prior to the year 1874. he had been engaged in the lumbering and milling business in Iowa and in
Arkansas, and, in contemplation of breaking up and consolidating his business; came to Texas, and selected a point, afterwards known as Warner's Switch, as a suitable location,
providing he could obtain transportation facilities; that he
found at that point an abundance of fine pine timber, and,
three miles back from the railroad, a stream, known as Big
Sandy Creek, peculiarly adapted to floating logs, and lined for
many miles above with pine timber; that in 1874 the defendant's agent, after conversing with him about his experience
in the lumber business, the capacity of his mill, and the amount
of lumber accessible from the proposed location, made an oral
contract with him, by which it was agreed that if he would
furnish the ties and grade the ground for the switch, the defendant would put down the iron rails and maintain the switch
for the plaintiff's benefit for shipping purposes as long as he
needed it; that the plaintiff immediately graded the ground
for the switch, and got out and put down the tiei, and the
defendant put down the iron rails and established the switch;
and that the plaintiff, on the faith of the continuance of transportation facilities at the switch, put up a large saw-mill,
bought many thousand acres of land and timber rights and
the water privileges of Big Sandy Creek, made a tram road
three miles long from the switch to the creek, and otherwise
expended large sums of money, and sawed and shipped large
quantities of lumber, until the defendant, on -May 19, 1887,
while its road was operated by receivers, tore up the switch
and ties, and destroyed his transportation facilities, leaving
his lands and other property without any connection with the
railroad. His testimony also tended to prove that he had
thereby been injured to the amount of more than $50,000, for
which the defendant was liable, if the contract sued on was not
within the statute of frauds.
On cross-examination, the plaintiff testified that, when he
made the contract, he expected to engage in the manufacture
of lumber at this place for more than one year, and to stay

OCTOBER TERM-, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

there, and to have a site for lumber there, as long as he lived;
and that he told the defendant's agent, in the conversation
between them at the time of making the contract, that there
was lumber enough in sight on the railroad to run a mill for
ten years, and by moving back to the creek there would be
enough to run a mill for twenty years longer.
INo other testimony being offered by either party, bearing
upon the question whether the contract sued on was within
the statute of frauds, the Circuit Court, against the plaintiff's
objection and exception, ruled that the contract was within
the statute, instructed the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, and rendered judgment thereon, which was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon the ground that the contract was within the statute of frauds, as one not to be performed within a year. 13 U. S. App. 236. The plaintiff
sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Horace Chilton for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. .Tohn F. Dillon for defendant in error. .Mr. Winslow
S. Pierce and XMr. David D. Duncan were on his brief.
MR. JuSTicE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

The statute of frauds of the State of Texas, refnacting, in
this particular, the English statute of 29 Car. II, c. 3, § 4,
(1677) provides that no action shall be brought "upbn any
agreement which is not to be performed within the space of
one year from the making thereof," unless the "agreement
upon which such action shall be brought, or some memorandum or note thereof, shall be in writing and signed by the
party to be charged therewith, or by some person by him
thereunto lawfully authorized."
Texas -Stat. January 18,
1840; 1 Pascha's Digest, (4th ed.) art. 3875; Rev. Stat. of
1879, art. 2464; Bason v"Hughart, 2 Texas, 476, 480.
This case has been so fully and ably argued, and the construction of this clause of the statute of frauds has so seldom

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC IRAILWAY.

421

Opinion of the Court.
come before this court, that it will be useful, before considering the particular contract now in question, to refer to some
of the principal decisions upon the subject in the courts of
England, and of the several States.
In the earliest reported case in England upon this clause of
the statute, regard seems to have been had to the time of
actual performance, in deciding that an oral agreement that
if the plaintiff would procure a marriage between the defendant and a certain lady, the defendant would pay him fifty
guineas, was not within the statute'; Lord Holt saying:
Though the promise depends upon a contingent, the which
may not happen in a long time, yet if the contingent happen
within a year, the action shall be maintainable, and is not
within the statute." ['rancam v. Foster, (1692) Skinner, 326;
S. C. Holt, 25.
A year later, another case before Lord Holt presented the
question whether the words "agreement not to be performed
within one year" should be construed as meaning every agreement which need not be performed within the year, or as
meaning only an agreement which could not be performed
within the year, and thus, according as the one or the other
construction should be adopted, including or excluding an
agreement which might or might not be performed within
the year, without regard to the time of actual performance.
The latter was decided to be the true construction.
That was an action upon an oral agreement, by which the
defendant promised, for one guinea paid, to pay the plaintiff
so many at the day of his marriage; and the marriage did not
happen within the year. The case was considered by all the
judges. Lord Holt "was of opinion that it ought to have
been in writing, because the design of the statute was, not to
trust to the memory of witnesses for a longer time than one
year." But the great majority of the judges were of opinion
that the statute included those agreements only that were
impossible to be performed within the year, and that the case
was not within the statute, because the marriage might have
happened within a year after the agreement; and laid down
this rule: "Where the agreement is to be performed upon a

OCTOBERI

TERM, 1896.

Opinion of the Court.

contingent, and it does not appear within the agreement, that
it is to be performed after the year, then a note in writing is
not necessary, for the contingent might happen within the
year; but where it appears by the whole tenor of the agreement, that it is to be performed after the year, there a note is
necessary."
Peter v. Compton, (1693) Skinner, 353; S. 0.
Hlolt, 326; S. C. cited by Lord Holt in Smith v. lWestall, 1
Ld. Raym. 316, 317; Anon., Gomyns, 49, 50; Comberbach,
463.
Accordingly, about the same time, all the judges held that
a promise to pay so much money upon the return of a certain ship, which ship happened not to return within two yearq
after the promise made, was not within the statute, "for thI
.by possibility the ship might have returned within a year;
and although by accident it happened not to return so soon,
yet, they said, that clause of the statute extends only to such
promises where, by the express appointment of the party, the
thing is not to be performed within a year." Anon., 1 Salk. 280.
Again, in a case in the King's Bench in 1762, an agreement
to leave money by will was held not to be within the statute,
although uncertain as to the time of performance. Lord
Mansfield said that the law was settled by the earlier cases.
Mr. Justice Denison said: "The statute of frauds plainly
means an agreement not to be performed within the space
of a year, and expressly and specifically so agreed. A contingency is not within it; nor any case that depends upon
contingency. It does not extend to cases where the thing
only may be performed within the year; and the act' cannot
be extended further than the words of it." And Air. Justice
Wilmot said that the rule laid down in 1 Salk. 280, above
quoted, was the true rule. 'Fenton, v. E blerm, 3 Burrow,
1278; S.C.1 W. Bl. 353.
It thus appears to have been the settled construction of
this clause of the statute in England, before the Declaration
of Independence, that an oral agreement which, according to
the intention of the parties, as shown by the terms of the contract, might be fully performed within a year from the time
it was made, was not within the statute, although the time of

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY.

423

Opinion of the Court.

its performance was uncertain, and might probably extend,
and be expected by the parties to extend, and did in fact
extend, beyond the year.
The several States of the Union, in reenacting this provision of the statute of frauds in its original words, must be
taken to have adopted the known and settled construction
which' it had received by judicial decisions in England.
Tucker v. Oxley, 5 Cranch, 34, 42; Pennock v. Dialogue, 2
Pet. 1, 18; Mlacdonald v. Hovey, 110 U. S. 619, 628. And
the rule established in England by those decisions has ever
since been generally recognized in England and America,
although it may in a few instances have been warped or
misapplied.
The decision in BRoydell v. Drummond, (1809) 11 East, 142,
which has been sometimes supposed to have modified the rule,
was really in exact accordance with it. In that case, the declaration alleged that the Boydells had proposed to publish by
subscription a series of large prints from some of the scenes
of Shakespeare's plays, in eighteen numbers containing four
plates each, at the price of three guineas a number, payable
as each was issued, and one number, at least, to be annually
published after the delivery of the first; and that the defendant became a subscriber for one set of prints, and accepted
and paid for two numbers, but refused tW accept or pay for
the rest. The first prospectus issued by the publishers stated
certain conditions, in substance as set out in the declaration,
and others showing the magnitude of the undertaking, an~d
that its completion would unavoidably take a considerable
time. A second prospectus stated that one number dt least
should be published annually, and the proprietors were confident that they should be enabled to produce two numbers
within the course of every year. The book in which the
defendant subscribed his name had only, for its title, "Shakespeare subscribers, their signatures," without any reference to
either prospectus. The contrast was held to be within the
statute of frauds, as one not to be performed within a year,
because, as was demonstrated in concurring opinions of Lord
Ellenborough and Justices Grose, Le Blanc and Bayley, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

contract, according to the understanding and contemplation
of the parties, as manifested by the terms of the contract,
was not to be fully performed (by the completion of the
whole work) within the year; and consequently, a full completion within the year, even if physically possible, would not
have been according to the terms or the intent of the contract, and could not have entitled the publishers to demand
immediate payment of the whole subscription.
In IFells v. Horton, (1826) 4 Bing. 40 ; S. C.12 J. B. Moore;
177, it was held to be settled by the earlier authorities that
an agreement by which a debtor, in consideration of his creditor's agreeing to forbear to sue him during his lifetime, promised that his executor should pay the amount of the debt, was
not within- the statute; and Chief Justice Best said: "The
present case is clearly distinguishable from Boydell v. Drummond, where upon the face of the agreement it appeared that
the contract was not to be executed within a year."
In Souch v. Strawbridge,(1846) 2 C. B. 808, a contract to
support a child, for a guinea a month, as long as the child's
father should think proper, was held not to be within the.
statute, which, as Chief Justice Tindal said, "speaks of 'any
agreement that is not to be performed within the space of one
year from the making thereof'; pointing to contracts the
complete performance of which is of necessity extended beyond the space of a year. That appears clearly from the case
of Boydell v. Drummond, the rule to be extracted from which
is, that, where the agreement distinctly shows, upon the face of
it, that the parties contemplated its performance to extend
over a greater space of time than one year, the case is within
the statute; but that, where the contract is such that the
whole may be performed within a year, and there is no
express stipulation to the contrary the statute does not
apply."
In .-Murphy v. O'Sullivan, (1866) 11 Irish Jurist (N. S.) 111,
the Court of Exchequer Chamber in Ireland, in a series of
careful opinions by Mr. Justice O'Hagan (afterwards Lord
Chancellor of Ireland), Baron Fitzgerald; Chief Baron Pigot
and Chief Justice Monahan, reviewing the English cases, held

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWATY.

425

Opinion of the Court.

tbat'under the Irish statute of frauds of I Will. III, c. 12,
(which followed in this respect the words of the English
statute,) an agreement to maintain and clothe a man during
his life was not required to be in writing.
In the recent case of McGregor v. .ZfcGregor, 21 Q. B. D.
424, (1888) the English Court of Appeal held that a lawful
agreement made between husband and wife, in compromise
of legal proceedings, by which they agreed to live apart, the
husband agreeing to allow the wife a weekly sum for maintenance, and she agreeing to maintain herself and her children,
and to indemnify him against any debts contracted by her, was
not within the statute. Lord Esher, M. R., thought the true
doctrine on the subject was that laid down by Chief Justice
Tindal in the passage above quoted from Souoh v. Strawbridge.
Lord Justice Lindley said: "The provisions of the statute have
been construed in a series of decisions from which we cannot
depart. The effect of these decisions is that, if the contract
can by possibility be performed within the year, the statute
does not apply." Lord Justice Bowen said: "There has
been a decision which for 200 years has been accepted as
the leading case on the subject. In Peter v. Comjoon, it
was held that 'an agreement that is not to be performed
within the space of a year from the making thereof' means,
in the statute of frauds, an agreement which appears from
its terms to be incapable of performance within the year."
And each of the three judges took occasion to express approval of the decision in Murphy v. O'Sullivan, above cited,
and to disapprove the opposing decision of Hawkins, J., in
Davey v. Shannon, 4 Ex. D. 81.
The cases on this subject in the courts of the several States
are generally in accord with the English cases above cited.
They are so numerous, and have been. so fully collected in
Browne on the Statute of Frauds, (5th ed.) c. 13, that we shall
refer to but few of them, other. than those "ited by counsel
in the case at bar.
In Peters v. Westborough, 19 Pick. 364, an agreement to
support a girl of twelve years old until she was eighteen was
held not to be within the statute. 'Mr. Justice Wilde5 iR

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

delivering judgment, after quoting Peter v. Compton, Fenton
v. .Emblers and Boydell v. Drummond, above cited, said:
"From these authorities it appears to be settled, that in order
to bring a parol agreement within the clause of the statute
in question, it must either have -been expressly stipulated by
the parties, or it must appear to have been so understood by
them, that the agreement was not to be performed within
a year. And this stipulation or understanding is to be absolute and certain, and not to depend upon any contingency.
And this, we think, is the clear meaning of the statute. In
the present case, the performance of the plaintiff's agreement
with the child's father depended on the contingency of her
life. If she had continued in the plaintiff's service, -and he
had supported her, and she had died within a year after the
making of the agreement, it would have been fully performed. And an agreement by parol is not within the
statute, when by the happening of any contingency it niigbt
be performed within a year."
In many other States, agreements to support a person for
life have been held not to be within the statute.. Browne on
Statute of Frauds, § 276. The decision of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee in Deaton v. Tennessee Coal Co., 12 Heiskell,
650, cited by the defendant in error, is opposed to the weight
of authority.
In Roberts v. 1ockbotton Co., 7 Met. 46, Chief Justice
Shaw declared the settled rule to be that "when the contract may, by its terms, be fully performed within the year,
it is not void by the statute of frauds, although in some contingencies it may extend beyond a year"; and stated the
case then before the court as follows: "The contract between
the plaintiff and the company was that they should employ
him, and that he should serve them, upon the terms agreed
on, five years, or so long as Leforest should continue their
agent. This is a 'contract which might have been fully performed within the year. The legal effect is the same as if it
were expressed as an agreement to serve the company so long
as Leforest should continue to be their agent, not exceeding
five years; though the latter expression shows a little more

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY.

427

Opinion of the Court.
clearly, that the contract might end within a year, if Leforest
should quit the agency within that time."
In Blanding v. Sargent, 33 N. H. 239, the court stated the
rule, hs established by the authorities elsewhere, and therefore properly to be considered as adopted by the legislature
of New Hampshire when re6nacting the statute, to be that
"the statute does not apply to any contract, unless by its
express terms or by reasonable construction it is not to be
performed, that is, incapable in any event of being performed, within one year from the time it is made"; and
that "if by its terms, or by reasonable construction, the contract can be fully performed w.ithin a year, although it can
only be done by the occurrence of some contingency by no
means likely to happen, such as the death of some party or
person referred to in the contract, the statute has no application, and no writing is necessary"; and therefore that an
agreement by a physician to sell out to another physician his
business in a,certain town, and to do no more business there,
in consideration of a certain sum to be paid in five years, was
not within the statute, because "if the defendant had died
within a year from the making of the contract, having kept
his agreement while he lived, his contract would have been
fully performed." The decisions in other States are to the
same effect. Browne on Statute of Frauds, § 277.
In flinckley v. Southgate, 11 Vermont, 428, cited by the
defendant in error, the contract held to be within the statute
of. frauds was in express terms to carry on a mill for a year
from a future day; and the suggestion in the opinion that if
the time of performance depends upon a contingency, the test
is whether the contingency will probably happen, or may
reasonably be expected to happen, within the year, was not
hecessary to the decision of the case, and cannot stand with
the other authorities. Browne on Statute of Frauds, § 279.
In ZinMcOtt v. _M0112tire, 15 Maine, 201, also cited by the
defendant in error, an agreement to. sell a farm at the best
"advantage, and to pay to the plaintiff any sum remaining
after refunding the defendant's adVances and paying him for
his trouble, was held not to be within the statute of frauds;

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Chief Justice Weston saying: "The sale did not happen to
be made until a year had expired; but it might .havetaken
place at an earlier period, and there is nothing in the case
from which it appears that, in the contemplation of the parties
at the time, it was to be delayed beyond a year. This clause
of the statute has been limited to cases where, by the express
terms of the agreement, the contract was not to be performed
within the space of a year. And it has been held to be no
objection that it depended on a contingency, which might
not and did not happen, until after that time."
In Herrin v. Butters, 20 Maine, 119, likewise cited by the
defendant in error, the contract held to be within the statute
could not possibly have been performed within the year, for
it was to clear eleven acres in three years, one acre to be
seeded down the present spring, one acre the next spring,
and one acre the spring following, and to receive in consideration thereof all the proceeds of the land, except the
two acres first seeded down.
In Broadwell v. Getman, 2 Denio,"87, the Supreme Court
of New York stated the rule thus: "Agreements which may
be completed within one year are not within the statute; it
extends to such only as by their express terms are not to be,
and cannot be, carried into full execution until after the expiration of that time." The contract there sued on was an agreeinent made in January, 1841, by which the defendant agreed to
clear a piece of woodland for the plaintiff, and to partly make
a fence at one end of it, which the plaintiff was to complete,
the whole to be done by the spring of 1842; and the defendant was to have for his compensation the wood and
timber, except that used for the fence, and also the crop to
be put in by him in the spring of 1842. The court well said:
"As this agreement was made in January, 1841, and could
not be completely executed until the close of the season of
1842, it was within the statute, and not being in writing and
signed, was void. Upon this point it would seem difficult to
raise a doubt upon the terms of the statute."
In Pitkin v. Long lslanld Railroad, 2 Barb. Ch. 221, cited
by the defendant in error, a bill in equity to compel a railroad

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY.

429

Opinion of the Court.

company to perform an agreement to maintain a permanent
turnout track and stopping place for its freight trains and passenger cars in the neighborhood of the plaintiff's property,
was dismissed by Ohancellor Walworth upon several grounds,
the last of which was that, as a mere executory agreement to
continue to stop with its cars at that place, "as a permanent
arrangement," the agreement was within the statute of frauds,
because from its nature and terms it was not to be performed
by the company within one year from the making thereof.
In .Kent v. Kent, 62 N. Y. 560, an agreem eni by which a
father, in consideration of his son's agreeing to work for him
upon his farm, without specifying any time for the service,
agreed that the value of the work should be paid out of his
estate after his death, which did not in fact happen until
twenty years after the son ceased work, was not within the
statute. Judge Allen, delivering the judgment of the Court
of Appeals, said: "The statute, as interpreted by courts, does
not include agreements which may or may not be performed
within one year from the making, but merely those which
within their terms, and consistent with the rights of the parties, cannot be performed within that time. If the agreement
may consistently with its terms be entirely performed within
the year, although it may not be probable or expected that
it will be performed within that time, it is not within the
condemnation of the statute."
In Saunders v. -asterbine, 6 B. Monroe, 17, cited by the
defendant in error, the contract proved, as stated in the opinion of the court, was to execute a bill of sale of a slave wheh
the purchaser had paid the price of $400, in monthly instalments of from $4 to $8 each, which would necessarily postpone performance, by either party, beyond the year.
In Railway Co. v. W/titley, 54: Arkansas, 199, a contract
by which a railway company, in consideration of being permitted to build its road over a man's land, agreed to construct
and maintain cattle guards on each side of the road, was held
not to be within the statute, because it was contingent upon
the continuance of the use of the land for a railroad, which
might have ceased within a year. And a like decision was

OCTOBE R TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

made in Sweet v. Desha Lumber Co., 56 Arkansas, 629, upon
facts almost exactly like those in the case at bar.
The construction and application of this clause of the statute of fraftds first came before this court at December term,
1866, in Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580, which arose in the
District of Columbia under the statute of 29 Car. II, c. 3, § 4,
in force in the State of Marvland and in the District of Columbia. Alexander's British Statutes in Maryland, 509 ; E.RIlicott v. Peterson, 13 Maryland, 476, 487; Comp. Stat. D. C.,
c. 23, § 7.
That was an action upon an oral contract by which a steam-boat company agreed to attach a patented contrivance, known
as the Sickles cut-off, to one of its steamboats, and, if it should
effect a saving in the consumption of fuel, to use it on that boat
during the continuance of the patent, if the boat should last so
long; and to pay to the plaintiffs weekly, for the use of the cutoff, three fourths of the value of the fuel saved, to be ascertained
in a specified manner. At the date of the contract, the patent
had twelve years to run. The court, in an opinion delivered
by Mr. Justice Nelson, held the contract to be within the
statute ; and said: "The substance of the contract is that the
defendants are to pay in money a certain proportion of the ascertained value of the fuel saved at stated intervals throughout
the period of twelve years, if the boat to which the cut-off is
attached should last so long." "It is a contract not to be performed within the year, subject to a defeasance by the happeningof a certain event, which might or might not occur within
that time." 5 Wall. 594-596. And reference was made to Birch
v. Liverpool, 9 B. & 0. 392, and Dobso2t v. Collis, 1 H. & N. 81,
in each of which the agreement was for the hire of a thing, or
of a person, for a term specified of -more than a year, deterruinable by notice within the year, and therefore within the
statute, because it was not to be performed within a year,
although it was defeasible within that period.
In Packet Co. v. Sickles, it appears to have been assumed,
almost without discussion, that the contract, according to
its true construction, was not to be performed in less than
twelve years, but was defeasible by an event which might or

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC IAILWAY.

431

Opinion of the Court.

might not happen within one year. It may well be doubted
whether that view can be reconciled with the terms of the
contract itself, or with the general current of the authorities.
The contract, as stated in the fore part of the opinion, was to
use and pay for the cut-off upon the boat "during the continuance of the said patent, if the said boat should last so
long." 5 Wall. 581, 594; S. C. (Lawyer's Co'p. Pub. Co. ed.)
bk. 18, pp. 552, 551. The terms "during the continuance of"
and "last so long" would seem to be precisely equivalent;
and the full performance of the contract to be lifhited alike
by the life of the patent, and by the life of the boat. It is
difficult to understand how the duration of the patent and the
duration of the boat differed from one another in their relation to the performance or the determination of the contract;
or how a contract to use an aid to navigation upon a boat, so
long as she shall last, can be distinguished in principle from a
contract to support a man, so long as he shall live, which has
been often decided, and is generally admitted, not to be *within
the statute of frauds.
At October term, 1875, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Miller, said: "The statute of frauds applies only to contracts which, by their terms, are not to be performed within
a year, and does not apply because they may not be performed
within that time. In other words, to make a parol contract
void, it must be apparent that it was the understanding of
the parties that it was not to be performed within a year
from the time it was made." And it was therefore held,
in one case, that a contract by the owner of a valuable estate, employing lawyers to avoid a lease thereof and to recover the property, and promising to pay them a certain sum
out of the proceeds of the land when recovered and sold, was
not within the statute, because all this might have been done
within a year; and in another case, that a contract, made
early in November, 1869, to furnish all the stone required to
build and complete a lock and dam which the contractor with
the State had agreed to complete by September 1, 1871, was
not within the statute, because the contractor, by pushing the
work, might have fully completed it before November, 1870.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

-lcPherson V. Cox, 96 U. S. 40-, 416, 417; Walker v. JoAnson,
96 U. S. 424, 427.
In Texas, where the contract now in question was made,
and. this action upon it was tried, the decisions of the Supreme
Court of the State are in accord with the current of decisions
elsewhere.
In T/ouvenin v. Lea, 26 Texas, 612, the court said: "An
agreement which may or may not be performed within a year
is not required by the statute of frauds to be in writing; it
must appear from the agreement itself that it is not to be performed within a year." In that case, the owner of land orally
agreed to sell it for a certain price, payable in five years; the
purchaser. agreed to go into possession and make improvements; and the seller agreed, if there was a failure to complete the contract, to pay for the improvements. The agreement to pay for the improvements was held- not to be within
the statute; the court saying : "There is nothing from which
it can be inferred that the failure to complete the contract,
(by reducing it to writing, for instance, as was stipulated
should be done,) or its abandonment, might not occur within
a year from the time it was consummated. The pirchaser, it is
true, was entitled by the agreement to a credit of five years
for the payment of the purchase money, if the contract had
baen reduced to writing. But appellant might have sold to
another, or the contract might have been abandoned by the
purchaser, at any time; and upon this alone depended appellant's liability for the improvements." See also T/iomas v.
Hammond, 47 Texas, 42.
In the very recent case of Jfeatheiford &c. Railway v.
MJood, 88 Texas, 191, it was held that an oral agreement by a'
railroad company to issue to one Wood annually a pass over
its road for himself and his family, and to stop its trains at
his house, for ten years, was not within the statute. The
court, after reviewing many of the authorities, said: "It
seems to be well settled that where there is a contingency
expressed upon the face of the contract, or implied from 'the
circumstances, upon the happening of which within a year the
contract or agreement will be performed, the contract is not

WARNER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY.

433

Opinion of the Court.

within the statute, though it be clear that it cannot be performed within a year except in the event the contingency
happens." "If the contingency is beyond the control of the
parties, and one that may, in the usual course of events,
happen within the year, whereby the contract will be performed, the law will presume that the parties contemplated
its happening, whether they mention it in the contract or not.
The statute only applies to contracts 'not to be performed
within the space of one year from the making thereof.' If
the contingency is such that its happening may *bring the
performance within a year, the contract is not within the
terms of the statute; and this is true whether the parties at
the time had in mind the happening of the contingency or not.
The existence of the contingency in this class of cases, and
not the fact that the parties may or may not have contemplated its happening, is what prevents the agreement from
coming within the scope of the statute. Applying these principles to the case under consideration, we think it clear that
the contract above set out was not within the statute. The
agreement to give the pass and stop the trains was personal
to Wood and his family. He could not transfer it. In case
of his death within the year, the obligation of the company to
him would have been performed, and no right thereunder
would have passed to his heirs or executors. If it be held
that each member of his family had an interest in the agreement, the same result would have followed the death of such
member, or all of them, within the year. If the agreement
had been to give Wood a pass for life, it would, under the
above authorities, not have been within the statute; and we
can see no good reason for holding it to be within the statute
because his right could not have extended"beyond ten years.
The happening of the contingency of the death of himself
and family within a year would have performed the contract
in one case as certainly as in the other." 88 Texas, 195, 196.
In the case at bar, the contract between the railroad company and the plaintiff, as testified to by the plaintiff himself,
who was the only witness upon the point, was that if he
would furnish the ties and grade the ground for the swiitch-at
VOL. CLXv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the place where he proposed to erect a saw-mill, the railroad
company would "put down the iron rails and maintain the
switch for the plaintiff's benefit for shipping purposes as long
as he needed it."
The parties may well have expected that the contract would
continue in force for more than one year; it may have been
very improbable that it would not do so; and it did in fact
continue in force for a much longer time. But they made no
stipulation which in terms, or by reasonable inference, required
that result. The question is not- what the probable, or expected, or actual performance of the contract was; but whether
the contract, according to the reasonable interpretation of its
terms , required that it should not be peformed within the
year. No definite term of time for the performance of the
contract appears to have been mentioned or contemplated by
the parties; nor was there any agreement as to the amount of
lumber to be sawed or shipped by the plaintiff, or as to the
time during which he should keep up his mill.
The contract of the railroad company was with, and for the
benefit of, the plaintiff personally. The plaintiff's own testimony shows (although that is not essential) that he understood
that the performance of the contract would end with his own
life. The obligation of the railroad company to maintain the
switch was in terms limited and restricted by the qualification
"for the plaintiff's, benefit for shipping purposes as long as he
needed it'; and no contingency which should put an end to
the perfkrmance of the contract, other than his not needing
the switch, for the purpose of his business, appears to have
been in the mouth, or in the mind, of either party. If, within
a year after the making of the contract, the plaintiff had died,
or had abandoned his whole business at this place, or for any
other reason had ceased to need the switch for the shipping of
lumber, the railroad company would have been no longer
under any obligation to maintain the switch, and the contract
would have been brought to an end by having been fully performed.
The cormplete performance of the 'contract depending upon
a contingency whieh might happenwithin the year, the con-

WARNER. v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWLY

435

Opinion of the Court.

tract is not within the statute of frauds as an "agreemeht
which is not to be performed within the space of one year from
the making thereof."
Nor is it within the other clause of the statute of frauds,
relied on in the answer, which requires certain conveyances
of real estate to be in writing. The suggestion made in the
argument for the defendant in error, that the contract was, in
substance, a grant of an easement in real estate, and as such
within the statute, overlooks the difference between the English and the Texan statutes in this particular. The existing
statutes of Texas. while they substantially follow the English
statute of frauds, so far as to require a conveyance of any
"estate of inheritance or freehold, or for a term of more than
one year, in lands and tenements," as well as "any contract
for the sale of real estate, or the lease thereof for a longer
term than one year," to be in writing, omit to reenact the
additional words of the English statute, in the clause concerning conveyances, "or any uncertain interest of, in, to or out
of" lands or tenements, and, in the other clause, "or any interest in or concerning them." Stat. 29 Car. II, c. 3, §§ 1, 4;
Texas Rev. Stat. of 1879, arts. 548, 2464; 1 Paschal's Digest,
arts. 997, 3875; James v. Fulcrod,5 Texas, 512, 516; Stuart
v. Baker, 17 Texas, 417, 420; Anderson v. Powers, 59 Texas,
213.
Judgment 'eversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to set aside the verdict and to order a new
triaZ.

