OCTOBER TERX, 1896.
Opinion of the Court,

UNITED STATES v. DELANEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 493. Submitted November 3, 1896.-Decided November80, 1896.

Doing that which it is necessary to do, in order that a newly created land
office may be in a proper and fit condition at the time appointed for
opening it for public business, is a part of the official duties of the
person who is appointed its register and receiver.
The claimant having entered on the performance of such duties at a new
office in Oklahoma on the 18th of July, 1890, and having been engaged in
-performing them, in the manner described by the court in its opinion,
from thence to the 1st of September following, when the office was opened
for the transaction of public business, is entitled to compensation as
register and receiver during that period.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr.Assistant Attorney General Dodge and Mr. Assistant
Attorney Gorman for appellants.
.Mr. I. W. Dudley, -Mr.L. T. .Michener,.Mr. John C. Chaney
and AMr. J. R. Garrisonfor appellee.

XR. JUSTICE PECKHAX delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims. It involves
simply the question as to the right of the appellee to compensation as register and receiver of the land office at the city of
Oklahoma, in the Territory of Oklahoma, from the 18th of
July to the 1st of September, 1890.
It appears from the findings of fact by the Court of Claims
that the land office at Oklahoma city was first established by
an executive order of the President on the 6th of June, 1890.
The appellee, John C. Delaney, was duly appointed and commissioned as receiver of public moneys at Oklahoma city on
the 23d of June, 189Q, and on the 7th of July, 1890, he qualified by taking the oath of office and giving the bond required
by law. On the 10th of July, 1890, the claimant was verbally
directed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office to

UNITED STATES v. DELANEY.
Opinion of the Court.

go to Oklahoma as speedily as possible, and make the necessary preparations to open the office at that place. He left his
residence in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, on the 15th and arrived
at Oklahoma city on the 18th of July, 1890. The land district at Oklahoma city was taken from parts of the two districts
of Guthrie and Kingfisher, and'on the 18th of July, 1890, the
Commissioner of the General Land Office wrote to appellee at
Oldahoma city, stating to him that the officers at Guthrie
and Kingfisher had been directed to turn over to him all the
plats and records of every description relating to the lands
forming his district, and asking him to at once confer with
those officers upon the subject. The letter also contained the
following: "As soon as the records are received, you will
proceed to give notice by publication, as an advertisement, at
regular advertising rates, in the newspaper having the largest
circulation in your district, once a week for four weeks, of the
precise date when your office will be open for the transaction
of public business, when the officers at Guthrie and Kingfisher
will cease transacting business relating to the lands transferred." Between the 18th day of July (the date of the
arrival of the appellee at Oklahoma city) and the 1st day of
September, 1890 (the date on which the office was formally
opened for the transfer of land and the receipt of money), the
appellee was engaged in attending to business pertaining to
his office, which had necessarily to be transacted before the
date of the formal opening of the office in accordance with
the published notice.
Upon this subject the Court of Claims found: "The nature
of the services performed by claimant after his arrival and
before the 1st of September is as follows: Conferring with
the officers of other districts in the Territory from which his
district was formed to determine what date to open the office;
preparing and issuing thirty days' notice of the day fixed for
opening the office ; overseeing and superintending the preparation of rooms for the office; getting estimates for the
manufacture of cases for the office; superintending the constructing of fixtures and having them put into the office;
giving information and receiving instructions from the inspec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tor; attending to the transfer of the records from the other
offices of the Territory to that of the Oklahoma office. During
said time there was a continuous arrival of letters from different
parts of the district as well as letters from the department,
which required the attention of claimant up to the 1st of
September, 1890."
The land office of which the claimant was receiver was in
fact opened for the transaction of business the 1st day of
September, 1890, pursuant to/ the published notice to that
effect, thirty days prior to that time, and the claimant insists
that he commenced hi$ services as receiver upon his arrival at
Oklahoma on the 18th day of July, 1890, while the defendant,
the appellant, urges that his term of office commenced when the
office was opened for the entry and sale of land, September
1, 1890, and from that time it has allowed him compensation.
The written communication to the claimant from the Commissioner of the General Land Office, dated Washington, July
18, 1890, enclosed to the claimant the notice of the establishment of the office at Oklahoma city, and the letter in general
terms defines certain services which were necessary to be performed before the opening of the office for the entry and sale
of lands; and in pursuance of that letter the claimant commenced the performance bf those services preliminary to the
opening of the office. The character of the service has already
been stated.
Section 2243, Revised Statutes, .provides that "-the compensation of registers and receivers, both for salary and commissions,
shall commence and be calculated from the time they respectively enter upon the discharge of their duties." The sole question in this case, therefore, is when did the claimant, within the
meaning of the -above section, "enter on the discharge of his
duties" ? The claimant had baen duly appointed on the 23d of
June, 1890. On July 7,1890, he had qualified by taking the oath
of office and giving the bond required by law. The office was
newly established and was taken from parts of two other land
offices.
Pursuant to the directions of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office the claimant had left his home in
Pennsylvania on the 15th day of July, 1890, and arrived at

UNITED STATES v. DELANEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Oklahoma city on the 18th of the same month.

He at once

entered upon the performance of the duties which it was
essential should be performed, which pertained to the establishment of and the transaction of business at the new office,
which were official in their nature and solely connected with
the discharge of the duties of the office to which claimant had
been appointed. What is the reason that he had not then,
within the meaning of the statute, entered upon the discharge
of the duties of his office?. It is said that receiving applications and making entries in the public records of the office in
regard to the transfer of public land within the district and
receiving the moneys of applicants for the purchase of such
lands comprise the duties of a register and receiver of a land
office at each land district established by law. These are
undoubtedly the main duties of an already established land
office. Here, however, the office had been but just established
by order of the President. The location of chambers in
which the business was to be done was part of the duty of
the appointee. It was his official duty to see to their being
properly furnished and prepared for the transaction of the

public business. He had to see or to correspond with the
officials of the two land offices from which the one in question
had but just been taken. That correspondence was not personal; it was official and it was necessarily connected with
the performance of his duties as register and receiver for the
newly made district. All of the services performed by the
claimant, as found by the Court of Claims and above set forth,
were wholly official in their nature, connected solely with the
performance of the claimant's duties as an officer, and to our
minds were just as much official as would be the entry of an
application in the books of the land office or the receipt of
money in payment for any portion of the public lands within
the district. Doing that which it is necessary to do in order
that a newly created land office may be in a proper and fit
condition at the time appointed for opening it for the transaction of public business is, as it seems to us, a part of the
official duties of the person who is appointed to the office.
While it is true that he cannot earn commissions until money

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

has been paid for lands transferred, and that no transfer can
be made until after the formal opening of the office for the
entry of applications, that fact can have no legitimate bearing
upon the question as to when the register and receiver enters
upon the discharge of the duties of his office in a newly created
land district. It is said that the salary and commissions of a
register and receiver commence at the same time, which is the
time when they, respectively, enter upon the discharge of
their duties, and that as commissions cannot be earned until
work is done upon which commissions can be charged, which
is not until after the formal opening of the office, it follows
that the salary cannot commence until that time. The argument is not sound. The right to both salary and commissions,
it is true, commences when the registers and receivers, respectively, enter upon the discharge of their duties, but a register
may enter upon the discharge of his duties under such circumstances as the claimant did in this case before the time arrives
for the formal and official opening of the land office to the
public, and before the receipt of any moneys upon which commissions might be earned. Otherwise if the salary could not
commence to run until the receipt of such moneys, the.office
might have been formally opened for the transaction of public
business and the register have been in attendance thereat for
a long time before any moneys were received in payment for
any part of the public land, and so he ,would be without a
right to compensation by salary during the time succeeding
the opening of his office and up to the time of the receipt of
such moneys.
It is unnecessary to enlarge upon the question, as it seems
quite plain to us that upon the facts found by the Court of
Claims the services performed by claimant after the creation
of the new land district and before the formal opening of the
land office were official services, and that as early as the 18th
of July, 1890, he had entered upon the discharge of the duties
of his office, and was in the continuous performance of such
duties until after the 1st of September, 1890.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was right, and it is
Afirmed.

