OCTOBER TERI 1896.
Syllabus.

COVINGTON AND LEXINGTON TURNPIKE ROAD
COMPANY v. SANDFORD.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
No.50.

OF KENTUCKY.

Submitted May 7, 1896.-Decided December 14, 1896.

The legislature of Kentucky, by an act passed in 1834, created the Covington
and Lexington Turnpike Road Company with authority to constructa turnpike from Covington to Lexington. One section prescribed the rates of
tolls which might be exacted; another provided "that if at the expiration
of five years after the said road has been completed, it shall appear that
the annual net dividends for the two years next preceding of said coinpany, upon the capital stock expended upon said road and its repairs, shall
have exceeded the average of fourteen per cent per annum thereof, then
and in that case, the legislature reserves to itself the right, upon the
fact being made known, to reduce tile rates of toll, so that it shall give that
amount of dividends per annum, and no inore." In 1851 two new corporations were created out of the one created by the act -f 1834, one to
own and control a part of the road, and the other the remaining part,
and each of the new companies was to possess and retain "all the
powers, rights and capacities in severalty granted by the act of incorporation, and the amendments thereto, to the original company." In
1865 an act was passed reducing the tolls to be collected on the Covington and Lexington turnpike. In 1890 another act was passed largely
reducing still further the tolls which might be exacted. Held,
(1) That the new corporations created out of the old one (lid not acquire
the immunity and exemption granted by the act of 1834 to the
original company from legislative control as to the extent of
dividends it might earn;
(2) That the statute of Kentucky passed February 14, 1856, reserving
to the legislature the power to amend or repeal at will charters
granted by it, had no application to charters granted prior to that
date;
(3) That an exemption or immunity from taxation is never sustained
unless it has* been given in language cleai'ly and unmistakably
evincing a purpose to grant such immunity or exemption;
(4) That corporations are persons within the meaning of the constitutional provisions forbidding the deprivation of property without
due process of law as well as a denial of the equal protection of
the laws;
(5) That the principle is reaffirmed that courts have the power to inquire
whether a body of rates prescribed by a legislature is unjust and
unreasonable and such as to work a practical destruction of rights

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFOR D.

579

Opinion of the Court.
of property, and if found so to be, to restrain its operation, because such legislation fs not due process of law;
(6) That the facts stated make a primaffacie case invalidating the act of
1890, as depriving the turnpike company of its property without
due process of law. Where a defence arises under an act of Congress or under the Constitution, the question whether the plea or
answer sufficiently sets forth such a defence is a question of
Federal law, the determination of which cannot be controlled by
the judgment of the st'ate court;
(7) That when a question arises whether the legislature has exceeded
its constitutional power in prescribing rates to be charged by a
corporation controlling a public highway, stockholders are not
the only persons whose rights or interests are to be considered;
and if the establishment of new lines of transportation should
cause a diminution in the tolls collected, that is not, in itself, a
sufficient reason why the corporation operating the road should
be allowed to maintain rates that would be unjust to those who
must or do use its property, but that the public cannot properly
be subjected to unreasonable rates in order simply that stockholdefs may earn dividends;
(8) That the constitutional provision forbidding a denial of the equal
protection of the laws, in its application to corporations operating public highways, does not require that all corporations exacting tolls should be placed upon the same footing as to rates; but
that justice to the public and to stockholders may require in respect to one road rates different from those presciibed for other
roads; and that rates on one road may be reasonable and just to
all concerned, while the same rates would be exorbitant on
another road.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. W. H. Mackoy and Xr. James T. Bryan for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. William Goebel for defendants in error.
M i. JUSTICE HARLAx delivered the opinion of the court.
The general assembly of Kentucky, by an act approved
May 24., 1890, made it unlawful to demand, charge, collect
or receive tolls in excess of the rates specified in that act for
travel on that portion of the Covington and Lexington Turnpike Road which was then maintained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The company announced its purpose to disregard the provisions of the act and to charge such tolls as were prescribed
by the prior statutes. Thereupon the appellees living on or
near the line of the turnpike road, and accustomed to travel
on it daily with animals and vehicles, brought this suit for
an injunction restraining the appellant from exacting tolls in
excess of those fixed by the act of 1890.
A temporary injunction, in accordance with the prayer of
the petition, was granted, and the company filed its answer.
A demurrer to the answer was sustained. An amended answer was then tendered by the defendant, but the court would
not allow it to be filed, and by final order made the injunction perpetual. That judgment was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky. 20 S. W. Rep. 1031.
The principal questions are: 1. Whether the act of 1890
impairs the obligation of any contract that the turnpike
company had with the State touching the matter of tolls.
2. Whether, independently of any question of contract, the
act made such a reduction in tolls as to amount to a deprivation of the company's property without due process of law,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. 3. 'Whether the act is repugnant
to the clause of the Federal Constitution forbidding the denial
by the State to any person within its jurisdiction of the equal
protection of the law.
As these questions were properly raised by the pleadings,
and were decided adversely to the company, the jurisdiction
of this court to review the final judgment of the dourt of
Appeals of Kentucky cannot be doubted.
It is necessary to a clear understanding of the issues presented that reference be made to the enactments preceding
the statute of 1890.
The Covington and Lexington Turnpike Road Company
was incorporated by an act approved February 22, 1834, with
authority to construct and permanently maintain a turnpike
road from Covington, Kentucky, through Williamstown and
Georgetown, to Lexington in that State.
By the nineteenth section of that act the company was

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SA-NDFORD.

581

Opinion of the Court.

authorized to collect certain specified tolls. It is contended
that the twenty-sixth section is a part of the defendant's contract with the State. That section provided: "That if at the
expiration of five years after said road has been completed,
it shall appear that the annual net dividends for the two
years next preceding of said. company, upon the capital stock
expended on said road and its repairs, shall have exceeded
the average of fourteen per cent per annum thereof, then and
in that case, the legislature reserves to itself the right, upon
the fact being made known, to reduce the rates of toll, so
that it shall give that amount of net dividends per annum,
and no more." Acts of Kentucky, 1833, pp. 537, 548.
By an act approved February 23, 1839, amendatory of the
act of 183-the road then having been constructed from
Covington to Williamstown-it was provided: "ยง 1. That the
stockholders in the Covington and Lexington Turnpike Road
Company, residing south of Williamstown, in Grant County,
and anywhere between that place and Georgetown, may elect
a separate board of directors, to consist of the same number,
as authorized by the original charter; and the directors,
chosen by them, shall have the control and shall superintend
the construction of that part of the road to be located and
constructed between Georgetown and Williamstown. ยง 2.
That the stockholders in said road, residing north of Williamstown, shall have power, also, to elect a separate board of
directors, for the purpose of controlling and superintending
that portion of the road extending from Williamstown to
Covington; and each board, so chosen, shall exercise separate
control over its own portion of the road; but nothing herein
shall be construed to divide and separate the stock in said
road, but the same shall continue joint and common to all the
stockholders, after the completion of said road." Acts of
Kentucky, 1838-1839, p. 371. This amendment, it is admitted, was accepted by the turnpike company.
Subsequently, by the second section of an act approved
March 22, 1851, it was provided:
"1ยง 2. That so much of the second section of said act to
amend the charter of the Lexington and Covington Turnpike

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Road Company [meaning the act of 1839] as declares that
the stock in said road shall continue joint and common to all
the stockholders, after the completion of said road, is hereby
repealed; and the stockholders whose stock is now under the
control and management of the board of directors having
control of the road north of Williamstown shall be and are
hereby constituted a separate and independent company,
under the name and style of the Covington and Lexington
Turnpike Road Company, who shall be and forever remain
separate and independent of that portion of said company
owning the stock in the road now constructed south of Williamstown; and ihe stockholders whose stock is now under
the control and manage'ment of the board of directors having the control and construction of the road south of Williamstown, shall be and are hereby constituted a .separate
and independent company, under the name and style of the
Georgetown and Dry Ridge Turnpike Road Company, who
shall be and forever remain separate and ifndependent of that
part of said company owning the stock in the road north of
Williamstown; and that neither of said companies, thus
formed, shall be held as in anywise .responsible for the actings or doings of the other; but each shall have the exclusive
ownership and control of that portion of road which they
have respectively made, or, under the provisions of this act
shall make, and shall have full power and authority to elect
its own president and directors, to declare its own dividends,
and pay the same to its own stockholders, each coMpanyopos8essing and retaining all the powers, rights and capacitiesin

seve'alty granted by the act of incoparation,and the amendments thereto, to the original company, and subject to all the
restrictions to which said company is subject, not inconsistent with the provisions of this act; and that neither company shall be in anywise liable for the debts or contracts of
the other now in existence, or which may be hereafter made
or contracted." Acts of Kentucky, 1850-1851, p. 479, v. 2.
It is claimed that the words in this section, "possessing and
retaining all the powers, rights and capacities in severalty
granted by the act of incorporation and the amendments

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFORD.

583

Opinion of the Court.

thereto, to the original company," embraced, or carried into
the charters of the two corporations created by this act, the
immunity or exemption, given by the twenty-sixth section of
the above act of 1834, from legislation that would preclude
the company from earning as much as fourteen per cent upon
its capital stock.
The separate and independent company created by the lastnamed act as the Covington and Lexington Turnpike Road
Company is the defendant in this suit. To it was committed
the control of that portion of the road lying north of Williamstown. The act of 1851 further provided that it should
be in force as soon as a majority of the stockholders of
each company assented to its provisions. Such assent was
duly given by the stockholders.
The next statute, in point of time, relating to the Covington and Lexington Turnpike Road Company was that of
December 11, 1865, amending the charter of that company.
That act provided that the company might charge tolls on
their road as prescribed in that act, "instead of the rates now
allowed by law." Private Acts of Kentucky, 1865, p. 2. The
rates so prescribed were, it is alleged, different from and lower
than those prescribed by the original charter of 1834.
The petition alleged that the defendant submitted to the
regulation of its tolls, as indicated by the act of 1865, "and
consented to and accepted said act, and has ever since acted
thereunder and exacted the rates of toll therein specified."
The answer, touching this point, avers: "It [the defendant]
admits, also, the passage of the act by the general assembly
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky mentioned in said petition
as having been approved December 11, 1865, and entitled ' An
act to amend the charter of the Covington and Lexington
Turnpike Road Company,' which provided other and different
rates of toll from those authorized to be collected by the act
of February 22, 1834, above mentioned, which act of December
11, 1865, this defendant accepted and has acted under, but it
denies that it submitted to the regulation of its tolls by the
general assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky then or
at any time, but says that it accepted said act and has acted

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

thereunder of its own volition, and that the acceptance of said
act was voluntary on the part of said corporation, its stockholders and directors."
By the sixth section of an act of the general assembly of
Kentucky, approved February 13, 1872, it was provided that
the trustees of the Cincinnati Southern Railway, whose line
extended across Kentucky, might "also, for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining said line of railway, occupy or
use any turnpike or plank road, street or other public way.
or ground, or any part thereof, upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between said trustees and the
municipal or other corporations, persons or public authorities owning or having charge thereof.

.

.

.

If no agree-

ment can be made for the right to use or occupy any road,
street or ground that may be necessary, the said trustees may
take and appropriate said rights in the manner provided in
the next section."
The trustees of the last-mentioned company gave the defendant notice that they required that portion of its turnpike
road extending from the line between Scott and Grant counties to within about a mile of Walton, in Boone County,
Kentucky, a distance of about thirty miles. Thereupon the
defendant sold to the Cincinnati Southern Railway its road
between Williamstown and Walton, in length twenty-two
miles, for the consideration of $100,000, which sum was distributed among the stockholders of the turnpike company,
each stockholder receiving $22 on each share of stock, which
was in excess of its real or market value. Since the above
sale the defendant has exercised and maintained control only
over that portion of its road between Walton and Covington,
a distance of eighteen miles.
Then came the act of May 24, 1890, to which reference has
heretofore been made.
In our consideration of the questions presented by the record
we lay aside the statute of Kentucky, passed February 14,
1856, providing that "all charters and grants of, or to corporations, or amendments thereof, and all other statutes, shall
be subject to amendment or repeal at the will of the legisla-

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFORD.

585

Opinion of the Court.

ture, unless a contrary intent be therein plainly expressed:
Provided, That whilst privileges and franchises so granted
may be changed or repealed, no amendment or repeal shall
impair other rights previously vested"; and which also provided that' that act "shall only apply to charters and acts
of incorporation to be granted hereafter." Acts of Kentucky,
1855, vol. 1, p. -15, c. 148. The provision in the General
Statutes of Kentucky, which took effect on the 1st day of
December, 1873, is that "all charters and grants of or to
corporations or amendments thereof, enacted or granted since
the 14th of February, 1856, and all other statutes, shall be
subject to amendment or repeal at the will of the legislature,
unless a contrary intent be therein plainly expressed: Provided, That, whilst privileges and franchises so granted may
be changed or repealed, no amendment or repeal shall impair
other rights previously vested." Gen. Stat. Kentucky, 1888,
p. 861, c.- 68, ยง 8. It is clear that the statute of 1866 had no
application to charters and grants of or to corporations and
amendments thereof, enacted or granted prior to February 14,
1856, but only to charters and acts of incorporation granted
after that date. It, therefore, has no application to the act
of 1851, granting to the Covington and Lexington Turnpike
Company "the powers, rights and capacities" given by the
act of 1834. Nor is there any ground for holding that the
turnpike company was brought by the act of 1865 under
the operation of the general statute reserving to the legislature the right to amend or repeal charters of or grants to
corporations. That act did nothing more than reduce the
rates of toll to be charged. It did not create a new corporation, nor give any additional franchises or privileges to the
company. The mere collecting of tolls, in conformity with
such rates, does not show that the company assented to the
exercise by the legislature, at will, of the power to amend or
repeal its charter. Whatever authority, therefore, the general
assembly had, by statute, to regulate the tolls of the plaintiff
in error arose from its general power to regulate the affairs of
a corporation which came into existence by its authority, and
which owned and controlled a highway established for public

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

use. Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526, 531; Railroad Commission cases, 116 U. .S. 307, 325; Dow v. Beidelmanr, 125
U. S. 680, 688; Covington & Cincinnati Bridge Co. v. Kent4oky, 154 U. S. 204, 215.
Was the Covington and Lexington Turnpike Road Company
entitled, under its charter, to be exempt from legislation that
would prevent it from earning at least fourteen per cent
"upon the capital 'stock expended upon said road and its
repairs," as prescribed in the act of 1834?
The act of 1834 having given to the original corporation n
exemption or immunity from legislation that would prevent it
from earning as much as fourteen per. cent upon the capital
stock expended upon its road and for repairs, the contention
of the defendant is that this exemption or immunity passed to
the two corporations created by the act of 1851, and which,
by the terms of that act, succeeded "to all the powers, rights
and capacities" granted by the act of 1834 to the original
corporation. This view was properly rejected by the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky. It was well said by Judge Pryor,
speaking for that court, that "the liability and duties owing
the State and the public by the one corporation had been
severed by the act of 1839, and by the act of 1851 two new
corporations were created, with the rights and powers of the
one entirely distinct from the other, and no means of ascertaining what per cent the old corporation would have made
upon its stock. In fact, the old corporation was extinct, and
to hold that the new corporations were exempt from legislative
interference wcild be to restrain the exercise of legislative
power by implication, when a reasonable construction of the
new grants must lead to a different conclusion."
These principles are in entire accord with the settled doctrines of this court. When a corporation succeeds to the
rights, powers and capacities of another corporation, it does
not thereby or necessarily become entitled to an exemption
from taxation. An exemption or immunity from taxation so
vitally affects the exercise of powers essential to the proper
conduct of public affairs and to the support of government,
that immunity or exemption from taxation is never sustained

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFORD.

587

Opinion of the Court.

unless it has been given in language clearly and unmistakably
evincing a purpose to grant such immunity or exemption.
All doubts upon the question must be resolved in favor of the
public. There are positive rights and privileges, this court
said in -Morgan v. Loui8iana,93 U. S. 217, without which the
road of a corporation could not be successfully worked, but
immunity from taxation is not one of them. Ina recent case,
.Aoefolk & Western Railroad v. Pendleton, 156 U. S. 667,
673, we had occasion to say, in harmony with repeated decisions, that, "in the absence of express statutory direction, or of
an equivalent implication by necessary construction, provisions, in restriction of the right of the State to tax the property or to regulate the affairs of its corporations, do not pass
to new corporations succeeding, by consolidation or by purcliase under foreclosure, to the property and ordinary franchises of the first grantee"; and that this was a "salutary
rule of interpretation, founded upon an obvious public policy,
which regards such exemptions as in derogation of the sovereign authority and of common right, and therefore not to
be extended beyond the exact and express requirements of the
grant construed 8trieticMimi juris. .Morgan v. Loui8iana, 93
U. S. 217; lWilson v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; ChesNzpeake &
Ohio Railway v. Miller, 114,U. S. 176."
The same principles should be recognized when the claim -is
of immunity or exemption from legislative control of tolls to
be exacted by a corporation established by authority of. law
for the construction of a public highway. It is of the highest
importance that such control should remain with the State,
and it should never be implied that the legislative department
intended to surrender it. Such an intention should not be
imputed to the legislature if it be possible to avoid doing so
by any reasonable interpretation of its statutes. It is as vital
that the State should retain its control of tolls upon public
highways as it is that it should not surrender or fetter its
power of taxation.. We admit there is some ground fr the
contention that, by the grant in .the act of 1851 to each of the
two corporations named in it, of "the powers, rig;hts and
capacities" granted to the corporation of 1834, the legislature

OCTOBER TER]M, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

intended to exempt the new corporations, as it did the original one, from all legislation that would prevent them from
earning as much as fourteen per cent on the capital stock
expended on their respective roads and for repairs. But as
the act- of 1851 inay not unreasonably be interpreted ag intended only to pass to the new corporations such powers,
rights and capacities as were necessary to the successful
working of the respective roads, and not an exemption from
legitimate and ordinary legislative control of their affairs and
business, it must, in the interest of the public, be so interpreted. It is settled law that in'grants by the public nothing passes merely by implication; and if a contract with a
State, relating to the exercise of franchises, is susceptible of
two meanings, "the one restricting and the other extending the powers of a corporation, that construction is to be
adopted which works the least harm to the State." Tie
Binghampton Bridges, 3 Wall. 51, 75; Ruggles .v. Blinois,
108 U. S. 526; Stein v. Bienville Water Supply Co.,.141 U. S.
67, 80, 81.
The views we have expressed find some support in the fact
that, by the act of 1865, the legislature prescribed rates .of
toll for the turnpike company, without any reference to the
twenty-sixth section of the act of 1834, and the provisions of
that statute were accepted, and have ever since been acted
upon by that company. So far as the record shows, that
acceptance was unconditional, and without any reservation
of a right by the company, under the previous law, tW earn
as much as fourteen per cent on its capital stock. Touching
this part of the case, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky said:
"Nor ought this court, in the absence of express enactment,
after the lapse of more than half a century, with legislation
not only severing the old corporation, but regulating the rate
of toll on these roads, to hold that this immunity from legislative interference was a perpetual right in the nature of a contract that could not be disturbed. The stockholders have
consented and asked an entire change of the original grant,
and submitted to legislation regulating their tolls, evidencing
that with their own contention the immunities in the act of

COVINGT0ON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFORD.

589

Opinion of the Court.

1834 were not regarded as forming a part of the corporate
grants subsequently made."
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that when the
act of 1890 was passed, the power of the general assembly over
the subject of tolls to be exacted by the plaintiff in error was
not impaired or restrained by any contract with the State in
reference to the amount which the company might earn from
the use of its road.
It is, however, contended that the act of 1890, by its necessary operation, deprives the company of its property without
due process of law, in that if tolls cannot be charged in excess
of those prescribed by that act, the company cannot possibly
maintain its road or derive any profit whatever for stockholders. This is a more serious question than the one we have
just examined, and is not so easy of solution.
In its original answer, filed in 1890, and to which a demurrer was sustained, the turnpike company referred to the
section of the act of 183- reserving to the legislature the right,
in a certain contingency, to reduce rates of toll, and alleged
that, "at the expiration of five years after said road had been
completed the annual net dividends for the two years next
preceding of said defendant company upon the capital stock
expended upon said road and its repairs had not exceeded and
did not exceed the average of fourteen per centur per annum
thereof, and that since the completion of this defendant's road
the annual net dividends of the defendant company upon the
capital stock expended upon said road and its repairs have not
averaged to exceed fourteen per centum per annum, but, upon
the contrary, have averaged very much less, and for a number
of years last past the average annual net dividends of said
company have not exceeded four per centua upon the capital
stock of said company."
The company further alleged that "its receipts from tolls
for a number of years last past under the rate of tolls prescribed by the act of December 11, 1865, mentioned in the
petition, have averaged only about $16,000 per annum, and
that the ordinary annual expenses of operating and maintaining its road during the same time have averaged about $SOOO

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

per annum; that during this and the coming year it will be
necessary for it to incur certain extraordinary expenses in the
purchase of ground for and building a new toll house for the
second tollgate from Covington on its road and in the purchase or condemnation of ground for straightening its road
-and laying out a side road along that portion of its road between that part of the city of Covington known as Lewisburg
and the first toll gate on its said turnpike road, which extraordinary expenses will amount to about $4000; that the act
of May 24, 1890, attempts to reduce the tolls on this defendant's road about fifty per cent, and that if the same were
adopted the income of the company from tolls would not be
more than $8000 per annum, nor more than sufficient to enable defendant to heet the ordinary expenses of its road, and
would leave nothing with w'vhich to meet said extraordinary
expenses, and there would be no income out of which dividends could be paid to stockholders upon the money which
they had invested in the stock of said road. This defendant
also says that within the last few years the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad, which has a station on the line of this
company's turnpike, and the Cincinnati Southern Railway,
which has several stations on the line of this defendant's turnpike, have diverted a large amount of travel from said turnpike and have diminished this company's earning capacity
very largely, and that other railroads and electric roads touching defendant's road and having stations thereon have been
chartered and are in contemplation, the effect and construction of which will be to still further impair the earning
capacity of this defefidant and to diminish the dividends of
this defendant under the rate of tolls in force by an act of
December 11, 1865.
"This defendant further says that the grade of the first
two and a half miles of its road leading out of the city of Covington is very steep; that for a portion of said two and a half
miles its road is built along the side of a hill; that the entire
said two and a half miles is expensive to maintain, especially
that portion along the side of the hill, the portion of the road
towards the slope of the hill having frequently given away

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFORD.

591

Opinion of the Court.

and slipped and entailed great expense upon the defendant in
the repair of the same, and that from the nature of the soil
over and along which said portion of said road is built said
process of sliding and giving away is liable to continue in the
future and to entail still further expense upon the defendant.
It says that the adoption of the rate of tolls fixed by the act
of May 24, 1890, would disable and prevent this defendant from
performing the duties that it owes to the public and would prevent it from ever hereafter paying any dividends to its stockholders, and that the rate of tolls prescribed in said act of
May 24, 1890, is unreasonable and unjust to defendant and its
stockholders; and that to permit the same to be enforced
would be to destroy entirely the value of the property of
the defendant and the value of the shares of capital stock of
the defendant held by its stockholders and destroy entirely the
dividend earning capacity of this defendant, and that to permit
said act of May 24, 1890, to be enforced would be to exercise
absolute arbitrary power over the property of the defendant
and its stockholders, in violation of section 2 of the bill of
rights of the constitution of Kentucky, and would be depriving the defendant and its stockholders of their property without due process of law and the taking of the same for publi6
use without the consent of the defendant and its stockholders
and without just compensation being previously made to
them, and that to permit the enforcement of said act of May
24, 1890, is to violate article 5 of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States and sections 3, 12, 14 and 15 of
the bill of rights of the Constitution of the United States and
the amendments thereto and tb the constitution of the State
of Kentucky."
It was also alleged in the original answer that, under the
act of 1890, sufficient income could not be earned "to maintain the road and provide for its ordinary expenses, without
taking into consideration any extraordinary expenses."
We have then the case of a corporation invested by its
charter with authority to construct and maintain a turnpike
road, and to collect tolls "agreeable" to certain named rates,
and which is required by a subsequent legislative enactment

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the -Court.

to conform to a tariff of rates that is unjust and unreasonable,
and prevents it, out of its receipts, from maintaining its road
in proper condition for public use, or from earning any dividends whatever for stockholders. These facts are admitted
by the demurrer. Is such legislation forbidden by the clause
of the Constitution of the United States declaring that no
State shall deprive any person of property without due process of law? We are of opinion that, taking, as we must do,
the allegations of the answer to be true, this question must be
answered in the affirmative.
It is now settled that corporations are persons within the
meaning of the constitutional provisions forbidding the deprivation of property without due process of law, as well as
a denial of the equal protection of the laws. Santa Clara
County v. Southern Pacific Railway Co., 118 U. S. 394;
Pembina lMining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181, 189;
Minneavolis & St. Louis Railway v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26;
Oarlotte &c. Railroad v. Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386, 391. And,
as declared in Si. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. Gill,
156 U. S. 649, 657, upon-the authority of previous decisions,
"there is a remedy in the courts for relief against legislation
establishing a tariff of rates which is so unreasonable as to
practically destroy the value of the property of companies
engaged in the carrying business, and that especially may the
courts of the United Stafes treat such a question as a judicial
one, and hold such acts of legislation to be in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, as depriving the companies of their property without due process of law, and as
depriving them of the equal protection of the laws" -citing
Railroad Commission, cases, 116 U. S. 307, 331; Dow v.
Beidelman, 125 U. S. 681; Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway
v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Chicago & Grand Trunk Railway v. TWellman, 143 U. S. 339; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan
c Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362.
In the Railroad Commission cases, the court, speaking by
Chief Justice Waite, recognized it as settled that "1a State has
power to limit the amount of charges by railroad companies
for the transportation of persons and property within its own

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFORD.

593

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction, unless restrained by some contract in the charter,
or unless what is done amounts to a regulation of foreign or
interstate commerce." But it took care also to announce that
"it is not to be inferred that this power of limitation or regulation is itself without limit. This power to regulate is not a
power to destroy; and limitation is not the equivalent of confiscation. Under the pretence of regulating fares and freights,
the State cannot require a railroad to carry persons and property without reward; neither can it do that which in law
amounts to a taking of private property for public use without just compensation, or without due process of law."
So, in Reagan v. Farmers' Loan c Trust Co., 154 U. S.
362, 397, 399, 410, 412, in which previous decisions were referred to, the court said that beyond doubt it was within the
power and duty of the courts "to inquire whether a body of
rates prescribed by a legislature or a commission is unjust and
unreasonable, and such as to work a practical destruction to
rights of property, and if so found to be, to restrain its operation." Again: "These cases all support the proposition that
while it is not the province of the courts to enter upon the
merely administrative duty of framing a tariff of rates for
carriage, it is within the scope of judicial power and a part of
judicial duty to restrain anything which, in the form of a
regulation of rates, operates to deny to the owners of property invested in the business of transportation that equal protection which is the constitutional right of all owners of other
property. There is nothing new or strange in this. It has
always been a part of the judicial function to. determine
whether the act of one party (whether that party be a single
individual, an organized body or the public as a whole) operates to divest the other of any rights of person or property.
In every constitution is the guarantee against the taking of
private property for public purposes without just compensation. The equal protection of the laws which, by the Fourteenth Amendment, no State can deny to the individual,
forbids legislation, in whatever form it may be enacted, by
which the property of one individual is, without compensation, wrested from him for the benefit of another, or of the
VOL. cLxIV-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

public. This, as has been orten observed, is a government of
law, and not a government of men, and it must never be forgotten that under such a government, with its constitutional
limitations and guarantees, the forms of law and the machinery of government, With all their reach and power, must in
their actual workings stop on the hither side of the unnecessary and uncompensated taking or destruction of any private
property, legally acquired and iegally held.
. .
If the
State wer6 to seek to acquire the title to these roads, under
its power of eminent domain, is there any doubt that constitutional provisions would require the payment to the corporation of just compensation, that compensation being the
value of the property as it stood in the markets of the world,
and not as prescribed by an act of the legislature? Is it any
less a departure from the obligations of justice to seek to take
not the title but the use for the public benefit at less than its
market value?

. . . It is unnecessary to decide, and we

do not wish to be understood as laying down, as an absolute
rule, that in every case a failure to produce some profit to
those who have invested their money in the building of a
road is conclusive that the tariff is unjust and unreasonable.
And yet justice demands that every one should receive some
compensation for the use of his money or property, if it be
possible without prejudice to the rights of others."
The cases to which we have referred related to the power
of the legislature over rates to be collected by railroad corporations. But the principles announced in them are equally
applicable, in like circumstances, to corporations engaged
under legislative authority in maintaining turnpike roads for
the use of which tolls are exacted. Turnpike roads established by a corporation, under authority of law, are public
highways, and the right to exact tolls from those using them
comes from the State creating the corporation. California
v. Central Pactetc Railroad,127 U. S. 1, 40. And the exercise
of that right may be controlled by legislative authority to the,
same extent that similar rights, connected with the construction and management of railroads by corporations, may. be
controlled. A statute which, by its necessary operation, corn-

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SANDFORD.

595

Opinion of the Court.

pels a turnpike company, when chargifig only such tolls as
are just to the public, to submit to such further reduction of
rates as will prevent it from keeping its road in proper repair
and from earning any dividends whatever for stockholders,
is as obnoxious to the Constitution of the United States as
would be a similar statute relating to the business of a railroad corporation having authority, under its charter, to collect
and receive tolls for passengers and freight.
It is suggested by counsel for the plaintiffs that neither
the original nor the amended answer sufficiently disclosed the
facts upon which the company rested its contention as to the
invalidity of the act of 1890, and that, upon the showing made
by the company, the court, under the established rule forbidding the annulment of a legislative enactment not ?]early and
palpably unconstitutional, was not obliged to hold that act to
be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. We
do not concur in this view. The answer disclosed what had
been the average annual receipts of the company under the
act of 1865 for a number of years immediately preceding the
passage of the act of 1890, and what during that period had
been the average annual expenses; alleged that the receipts
for the several preceding years had not admitted of dividends
greater than four per centum on the par value of the company's stock; that the act of 1890 reduced the tolls 50 per
cent below those allowed by the act of 1865; and that such
reduction would so diminish the income of the company that
it could not maintain its road, meet its ordinary expenses and
earn any dividends whatever for stockholders. These allegations were sufficiently full as to the facts necessary to be
pleaded, and fairly raised for judicial determination the question - assuming the facts stated to be true -

whether the act

of 1890 was in derogation of the company's constitutional
rights. It made a prim.faoie case of the invalidity of that
statute. When a party specially sets up and claims a right
or privilege under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, the question of the sufficiency of allegations to present
that issue is not concluded by the view expressed by the state
court. In Mitchell v. Clark, 110 U. S. 633, 645, this court

OCTOBER TERMT, 1896.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

said: "The question whether a plea sets up a sufficient defence, when the defence relied on arises under an act of Congress, does present, and that necessarily, a question of Federal
law; for the question is and must be, does the plea state facts
which under the act of Congress constitute a good defence."
This principle was approved in Boyd v.- D/ayer, 143 U. S.
135, 180. We decide, however, nothing more on this hearing
than that upon the facts alleged the demurrer to the answer
should -have been overruled; and upon the completion of the
pleadings -unless the plaintiffs elected to stand by their demurrer- the parties should be allowed to make their proofs
touching the issues involved.
It is proper to say that if the answer had not alleged, in.
substance, that the tolls prescribed by the act of 1890 were
wholly inadequate for keeping the road in proper repair and
for earning dividends, we could not say that the act was unconstitutional merely because the company (as was alleged
and as the demurrer admitted) could not earn more than four
per cent on its capital stock. It cannot be said that a corporation is .entitled, as of right, and without reference to the
interests of the public, to realize a given per cent upon its
capital stock. When the question arises whether the legislature has exceeded its constitutional power in prescribing
rates to be charged by a corporation controlling a public
highway, stockholders are not the only persons whose rights
or interests are to be considered. The rights of the public
are not to be ignored. It is alleged here that the rates prescribed are unreasonable and unjust to the company and its
stockholders. But that involves an inquiry as to what is
reasonable and just for the public. If the establishing of
new lines of transportation should cause a diminution in the
number of those who need to use a turnpike road, and, consequently, a diminution in the tolls collected, that is not, in
itself, a sufficient reason why the corporation, operating the
road, should be allowed to maintain rates that would be
unjust to those who must or do use its property. The public
cannot properly be subjected to unreasonable rates in order
simply that stockholders may earn dividends. The legislature

COVINGTON &c. TURNPIKE CO. v. SAN DFORD.

597

Opinion of the Court.

has the authority, in every case, where its power has not been
restrained by contract, to proceed upon the ground that the
public may not rightfully be required to submit to unreasonable exactions for the use of a public highway established
and maintained under legislative authority. If a corporation
cannot maintain such a highway and earn dividends for stockholders, it is a misfortune for it and them which the Constitution does not require to be remedied by imposing unjust
burdens upon the public. So that the right of the public to
use the defendant's turnpike upon payment of such"tolls as in
view of the nature and value of the service rendered by the
company are reasonable, is an element in the general inquiry
whether the rates established by law are unjust and unreasonable. That inquiry also involves other considerations, such,
for instance, as the reasonable cost of maintaining the road in
good condition for public use, and the amount that may have
been really and necessarily invested in the enterprise. In
short, each case must depend upon its special facts; and when
a court, without assuming itself to prescribe rates, is required
to determine whether the rates prescribed by the legislature
for a corporation controlling a public highway are, as an
entirety, so unjust as to destroy the value of its property for
all the purposes for which it was acquired, its duty is to take
into consideration the interests both of the public and of the
owner of the property, together with all other circumstances
that are fairly to be considered in determining whether the
legislature has, under the guise of regulating -rates, exceeded
its constitutional authority, and practically deprived the owner
of property without due process of law. What those other
circumstances may be, it is not necessary now to decide.
That can be best done after the parties have made their
proofs.
It is further insisted by the company that the rates prescribed for it by the act of 1890 are much less than those
imposed by the General Statutes of Kentucky upon other
turnpike companies of the State; consequently, that that act
denies to it the equal protection of the laws. The proposition
of the defendant is, that the constitutional provision referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to requires all turnpike companies in the State to be placed by
the legislature, when exercising its general power over the
subject of rates to be charged upon highways of that character, upon substantially the same footing. Upon this point
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky said: "A turnpike road
leading into and connected with a populous city like that of
the city of Covington could afford to charge less toll by
reason of the immense travel upon it than turnpikes in thinly
settled portions of the county or State, and hence under
former constitutions the legislature has seen proper to regulate the tolls as the turnpike road may happen to be located."
The circumstances of each turnpike company must determine
the rates of toll to be properly allowed for its use. Justice
to the public and to stockholders may require, in respect of
one road, rates different from those prescribed for other roads.
Rates on one road may be reasonable and just to all concerned,
while the same rates would be exorbitant on another road.
The utmost that any corporation, operating a public highway,
can rightfully demand at the hands of the legislature when
exerting its general powers is that it receive what, under all
the circumstances, is such compensation for the use of its property as will be just both to it and to the public. If the rates
prescribed for the defendant in this case were manifestly much
lower-taking them as a whole -than the legislature has, by
general law, prescribed for other corporations whose circumstances and location are not unlike those of the defendant,
a different question would be presented. At any rate, no case
of that kind is properly presented by the pleadings, and there
is no ground for holding that the act of 1890 denies to the
defendant the equal protection of the laws.
For the reasons we have given,
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the cause is
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

