JORDAN MINING CO. 10, SOCItTI

DES M]INES,

261

Syllabus.

with such result more readily in the case of a man who had
suffered from a previous illness and was still laboring under
its depressing effects." In the latter case, while the blow or
accident might be the direct, immediate cause of the paralysis;
yet the prior physical condition of the subject caused by illhealth and exposure in the army and the sickness which he
endured while in the hospital in Virginia from which he was
then suffering, might fairly be regarded as a concurring cause
of such paralysis. It could not be said to be a fraud, at any
rate, under such a state of facts for the defendant to claim
that his paralysis was caused by his sickness in the army.
It may be somewhat doubtful as to what was the immediate
cause of the paralysis from which the defendant suffered and
from which he is now suffering and probably will suffer to
the end. That he is almost completely helpless and has been
all these years is not doubted. The trial court in the opinion
delivered by it only went so far as to say that on the whole it
was satisfied that the government had a preponderance of evidence that the pension was obtained fraudulently and that the
money paid on it should be recovered back. This mere preponderance, as we have seen, is not sufficient in such a case.
The decree in favor of the government must, therefore, be
lievermed, and the case remanded to tke Circuit Court with
directions to dismiss the bill.

OLD JORDAN MfINING AND MILLING CO. v.

SOOIETE ANONYME DES MINES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 71. Argued October 27, 1896.-

Decided November 30, 1896.

The only error urged in the court below, or noticed in its opinion, and
which, consequently, can be considered here, goes to the insufficiency of
the proof of the contract set up in the complaint, in which this court finds

no error.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action originally brought in the District Court
for the Third Judicial District of the Territory of Utah by
the Socit6 Anonyme des Mines de Lexington, a French corporation, against the Old Jordan Mining and Milling Company, to recover one half the"expense of certain repairs made
to a canal or water ditch owned by them in common.
The complaint alleged that, since the month of March,
1883, these parties had continuously been tenants in common,
owning an equal undivided interest in a certain canal, known
sometimes as the " Galena," sometimes as the "Old Telegraph
Canal," and sometimes the "Old Jordan Canal," together
with the right of way and adjacent lands; that, between the
22d of October, 1883, and November 5, 1883, they entered
into a contract in writing, in which it was agreed that they
would make repairs, etc.,' and that each should pay one half of
the expense thereof ; that in the year 1884: the plaintiff made
certain repairs of the value of $993.93; in 1885, of the value
of $4025; in 1886, and until June, 1887, $4826.95, and, in
1887, from June 30 to December 31, $500, aggregating
$10,345.88, for its share of which a statement or bill of items
was furnished to the defendant; that the said defendant, on
the 31st of December, 1884, paid to plaintiff $496.96, its half
of the amount expended in 1884, but failed to pay its half of
the other expenses incurred as aforesaid, leaving a balance
due of $4675.98, for which judgment was demanded.
An answer was filed specifically denying the several averments of the complaint; and subsequently an amendment was
made alleging that from the 1st of January, 1885, plaintiff had
appropriated to its own use, without defendant's consent, all
the water flowing through said ditch or canal, and that the
reasonable value of that portion of the said water owned by
The answer also made other
defendant was $10 per day.
allegations not necessary to be considered as the case was
presented to this court.
In support of the contract alleged in the complaint plaintiff
put in evidence the following letter, written .by its manager
to the manager of the defendant under date of October 24,
1883:

JORDAN

INING CO. v. SOCI9TA DES MINES.

263

Statement of the Case.

"DFn. Sm: During my present stay in this city, for the
purpose of investigating and inspecting our different pieces of
property in this Territory, my attention was particularly called
to the bad state of the Jordan water ditch, which your and
our companies own jointly. Considering that it is for our
mutual interest to see that this property should be kept in
proper shape, I beg you in the name of your company, if you
do not judge that it would be advisable, while I am here, to
have an understanding regarding this matter. I suggest that
the necessary repairs should be done at once, and that hereafter the ditch should be kept in good condition, both companies paying their share of the incurred expenses.
"Will you please be kind enough to give this matter your
prompt attention and favor us with an immediate reply, as
I shall remain here only until the 15th of November."
To this letter the defendant's manager made the following
reply:
"CLEVELAND,

0., Oct. 30th, 1883.

"Mons. Eng. Renevey, l'adtinistrateur d~l~gu6 de Socit6
des Mines de Lexington:
"Your letter'of 24th inst., -in regard to the necessity of
entering into some arrangement for repairing and preserving
the Jordan water canal, owned by your company and the one
I represent, is rec'd. I agree with you that it is for our
mutual. interest that this property should be kept in good
.order, and I shall be pleased to join, you in a reasonable
arrangement for the purpose of protecting the property from
decay, and I am very glad to find a gentleman willing to
coperate in a business way for the protection of our mutual
interests. Your suggestion that the needed repairs should be
done at once, and that each company pay its share of expense,
and also for care for the future, is right, and I will direct Mr.
Van Deusen, our engineer, to co~perate with you or any one
you may delegate to examine the property and report what
repairs are necessary, and the cost of the same. He is a very
trustworthy and capable man, and I think you will find it for
our mutual advantage to act under his judgment and let him

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

make the repairs. As neither of us are using the water at
present, I would think it best to expend only so much as is
necessary to prevent loss, and when we are ready to use the
water, then we make permanent improvements. If you do
not have time to go into details before you leave, will you
please leave the matter in the hands of some one who will
coperate with me and Mr. Van Deusen - unless you are willing to have him do it, and each company pay one half the
expense.
"I make this suggestion because I think Mr. Van Deusen
can do the work satisfactory to both.
'"Regretting that my absence from Salt Lake prevents me
from a personal consultation with you, I am."
Other correspondence and evidence were introduced, which
are fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
The case was tried before a jury, and a verdict rendered in
favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $6028.76, upon which a
remittitur was filed of $12.35, and judgment thereupon entered
in the sum of $6016.41.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory this
judgment was affirmed. 9 Utah, 483. Whereupon defendant
sued out a writ of error from this court.
.Mr'. L. T. Micliener for plaintiff in err6r. Afr. C. TT Bennett and AXr. W. W. Dudley were on his brief.
Mr.. Jeremiah A.

Wilson for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

1. As the only error urged in the court below, or noticed
in its opinion, turns upon the alleged insufficiency of the proof
of the contract set up in the complaint, we shall confine our
consideration of the case to that point, notwithstanding that
other errors are assigned in this court, and, to some extent,
noticed in the brief of the plaintiff in error. We have repeatedly held that the failure to present and insist upon errors

JORDAN MINING CO. v. SOCIgTt DES

INES.

265

Opinion of the Court.

assigned in the court below constitutes an abandonment, or
waiver, of all the errors so assigned, not vital to the question
of jurisdiction, or the foundation of thb right; and this court
can only be called upon to consider such assignments as are
pressed upon the attention, or noticed in the opinion of the
court below. If the action Qf the court below were correct
as to the errors insisted upon as ground for reversal, none
others will be considered here. 3fontana Railway ao: v.
Warren, 137 U. S. 348, 351; San Pedro cfe. Co. v. United
States, 146 U. S. 120, 136.
2. From a perusal of the correspondence, set forth in the
statement of facts, it will appear that plaintiff's introductory
letter contained the following propositions: (1) that the company should come to an understanding with regard to the
keeping of the ditch "in proper shape"; (2) that the necessary
repairs should be done at once; (3) that thereafter the ditch
should be kept in good condition; (4) that both companies
should pay their share of expenses.
In its reply, the defendant agreed: (1) that it was for their
mutual interest that the property should be kept in good
order, and that it would be pleased to join the plaintiff in
any reasonable arrangement for the purpose of protecting it
from decay; (2) that it approved of plaintiff's suggestion that
the needed repairs should be done at once; that each company should pay its share of expenses, and also for its care
in the future; (3) that it would direct Mr. Van Deusen, its
engineer, to coperate with the plaintiff, or any one that
plaintiff's manager might delegate, to examine the property
and report what repairs were necessary, and the cost of the
same; (4) that, as neither party was using the water at
present, the writer thought it best to expend only so much as
would prevent loss, and that when they were ready to use the
water, they would make permanent improvements; that plaintiff should leave the-matter in the hands of s6me one who
would colperate with the writer of the letter and Mr. Van
Deusen, unless plaintiff were willing to have Mr. Van Deusen
do it, and each pay one half the expense.
Conceding, for the purposes of the case, that this corre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

spondence standing alone did not contain a completed understanding for the repair & the property -at least beyond such
rdpaits as were immediately necessary -it evidently was of
su.ch a character as to lead the plaintiff to believe that any
arrangement it might make with Van Deusen, the engineer,
for such repairs as were necessary to prevent loss to the property would be respected by the company.
Upon the receipt of defendant's answer, plaintiff proceeded
to make certain repairs, and on September 24, 1884, addressed
a letter to Van Deusen, stating that the expenses upon the
canal for the eight months immediately preceding amounted
to $643.85, giving the items, and requesting him to remit one
half the amount. There was also evidence tending to show
that the repairs had been made after a visit to the canal by
Van Deusen and Lavagnino, an agent of the plaintiff company, when Van Detsen asked the latter to report to him
what he thought would be necessary to be done, and that
they agreed upon the work; that after receiving the letter
of September 24, 1884, Van Deusen said that Mr. Holden, the
manager of the company, would be there pretty soon; that
he was acting under Holden's instructions ; and that it would
be best to wait until he came. On December 14, 1884, plaintiff wrote to ilolden, the manager of the company, stating
that the total expenditure for the year had been $993.93, and
that the officers of his company desired to ask his cobperation
"towards making next spring substantial tepairs on the canal,
go as to bring it up to usefulness"; and also "toward making
all titles about the canal clear, and to proceed against trespassers." On December 31, defendant paid one half of the
bill for that year, but made no comments upon the propositions contained in the plaintiff's letter.
There was also evidence tending to show that in the spring
of 1885 Mr. Lavagnino examined the canal with Mr. Van
Deusen in drder to ascertain what repairs were absolutely
necessary and urgent.. As Mr. Lavagnino says: "We made
an estimate. He told me that he would send the estimate
to his company, and I would send the same estimate to my
company.

.

.

These estimates were made because we

JORDAN MIN2ING CO. v. SOCIAT9 DES mINES.

267

Opinion of the Court.

were waiting for Mr. Holden. Mr. Van Deusen said that
according to the instructions he had last year, he would have
no objection, but that I remembered what Mr. Holden said
last year, that he paid the bill, and that he didn't care to take
any responsibility, but he would let Mr. Holden do it himself.
SHe
was telling me all the time that he would be
here very soon. This conversation was in the latter part of
March, 1885."
On August 27, 1885, Lavagnino addressed Holden a note
calling his attention to the canal, stating that in the spring
he had Van Deusen with him along the canal to see what
repairs were indispensable, in order to risk'a little water in it,
and to prevent a total Tuin of it; that the expenses run at
about $2000; and saying that he would be able to present
him a statement, and hoped that he would approve the same
in behalf of the defendant. He also expressed the wish that
he would like to have Mr. Holden inspect the canal to satisfy
himself that he had done the most needed things for its protection, and.to-get his opinion "about the probable expenses
for keeping up the canal to even its present low condition,
and to define in a sure way how far you think it right for the
Old Jordan company to stand the French company by."
On September 1 he sent him a statement of what he had paid
during the last six months, amounting to $2204.23, and asking
for its proper contribution from the Old Jordan company.
Here, at least, was a distinct and unequivocal notice that
repairs had been made, and that the plaintiff looked to defendant for a proportion of the cost. In vie'w of their previous correspondence defendant could have had no doubt that
such repairs were made upon the faith of the letters that had
passed between them, -and, if it did not intend to be bound, it
was its duty to repudiate the bill at once, and give notice
that the repairs.were unauthorized. Instead of this, however, Mr. Holden on September 2 promptly acknowledged
the receipt of the statement; said that the owners were expected early in the month, and-desired them to examine the
canal with him and decide the matter, both for the present
and for future expenditures; and suggesting that, as tenants

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in common, it was best for them "to agree upon some line of
policy by which either party should be allowed to expend
money on the property and thus bind the other to payments."
On November 19, he wrote to him again, desiring him
to make a complete statement of the expenditures made during the last year, which had been necessary for the protection of the canal, and send them to him at Cleveland- He
said 'that the owners had been opposed to spending any more
money than was absolutely necessary for the protection of
the canal; that when the Jordan company was ready to use
it they would make improvements and repairs, and that he
was quite certain the company would be disposed to do whatever was equitable.
On February 10, 1886, Lavagnino addressed a letter to Mr,
Holden at Oleveland, enclosing a statement of the total *expenditures upon the canal during 1885, which amounted to
$4025, stating that most of these expenditures had been necessary for the protection of the canal, and that the expenditures were either evidently indispensable, or were considered
as necessary by Mr. Van Deusen and himself.
To this Mr. Holden replied on February 16, stating that he
was pleased with the fair and candid statement made with
regard to the expenditures; that he would submit them to
the board for consideration, and felt sure they would be acted
upon in an equitable manner. The letter further stated that
the board did not desire to spend any more money than was
absolutely necessary to protect the canal and save larger
expenditures in the future; that if they were using the
water, or contemplated its immediate use, they would have
no hesitation in joining in any judicious expenditure; that
"it was the hope of the management of our company that
you would be willing to make such expenditures up6n the
canal as in your judgment would seem to be best, and that
you should report the sanie to us from time to time, and that
when we should be ready to use the water, that we should
expend for the benefit of the canal a like amount, or, in case
we should find it at that time in such good repair that it were
not necessary to expend as much money as you had expended,

JORDAN MINING CO. v. SOCIATP, DES MINES.

269

Opinion of the Cour.

that we should then pay to you the half of these expenditures
made by you, as indicated in your different letters up to the
10th inst., less, of course, at any time, the amounts which we
should expend upon the canal."
The next letter was not written until July 30, 1887, and in
this Mr. Lavagnino states that the expenditures upon the
canal property during the year 1886 and the first half of 1887
had been $4826.95; that in-his opinion the work had been
necessary for the protection of the canal property, and that
whatever value there was in it at present was "mainly due to
the perseverant attention bestowed upon it during the last
four years," and that he was willing to settle by arbitration
any difference between them. He also gave a list of all the
expenses put upon the canal as common property, which
amounted to $10,745.88, and asked him to settle for his share
of the expenses.
A further letter was written on February 6, 1888, stating
that the expenses for the last half of 1887 had been $500.
-A reply was made to this letter by Mr. Van Deusen on
February 11, 1888, acknowledging the receipt of the statement of February 6, 1888, and asking him to forward him a
completed statement of his account against the Old Jordan
company, that he might report the same to the owners, and
demanded that the statements show how and where each item
of expense was applied, that they might be assured that such
application was made for the protection of the property only.
To this Mr. Lavagnino replied, under date of February 14,
sending copies of statements rendered to Mr. Holden, promising to give any further details required, and requesting a
settlement of the account within ten days.
This letter completed the correspondence. In this connection the court charged the jury as follows: "If you believe
from a preponderance of the evidence that the contract was
made as alleged, as I have stated it to you, and that the plaintiff mad-e the repairs during the time specified, and that the
repairs were necessary to the preservation and protection of
the property, and that the defendant has been requested to
pay and has refused; then you should find for the plaintiff the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

amount of such one half of expenditures." It further charged
that if the defendant were liable under the contract it was
liable only for the reasonable and necessary expenditures to
preserve and protect the property, and that such expenditures
must have been made for the benefit of the common interest
of both parties to preserve and protect them.
We see no reason to doubt that the case was properly submitted to the jury. In determining whether there was a binding contract between the parties arising from the letter of the
plaintiff of October 241, 1883, and the answer of the defendant
thereto, the jury were at liberty to consider, in connection
with those letters, the subsequent correspondence and the conduct of the parties in respect to the common property, and
the interpretation put upon them by the parties themselves.
Not only was the canal visited and examined by the agents
of both parties acting in concert, but, from the beginning to
the end of the correspondence there was no refusal to cooperate on the part of defendant, no disavowal of an agreement between them, nor any expression of dissent as to the
propriety of what had been done toward the preservation of
the property. It is true that the defendant was not making
use of the canal, but its preservation from ruin was an object
of as much importance to one party as to the other. The
conduct and letters of the defendant were such as to justify
the plaintiff in believing that the repairs that it was making
to the canal were assented to and approved by it, and it
was, at least, a question for the jury to say whether the'plaintiff was not justified in believing that th6 defendant would
pay its proportion of them, and whether the two first letters
were not treated by both as embodying the arrangement
between them.
We see no error in the record of which the defendant is
entitled to complain, and the judgment of the court below is
therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIO PRoKnA& was not present at the argument, and

took no part in this decision of this case.

