BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 381. Submitted October 23, 1896.-Decided November 16, 1896.

Evidence of the reputation of a man for truth and veracity in the neighborhood of his home is equally competent to affect his credibility as a witness, whether it is founded upon dispassionate judgment, or upon warm
admiration for constant truthfulness, or natural indignation at habitual
falsehood; and whether his neighbors are virtuous or immoral in their
own lives. Such considerations may affect the weight, but do not touch
the competency, of the evidence offered to impeach or to support his
testimony.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
3r. Assistant Atto'ney General Diokinso for defendants

in error.
No appearance for plaintiff in error.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an indictment charging John Brown, in separate
counts, with the murders by shooting of Thomas Whitehead
and of Joseph Poorboy, on December 8, 1891, at the Cherokee
Nation in the Indian Territory. Two successive convictions
upon this indictment were set aside and new trials ordered,
because of erroneous rulings and instructions of the court
below, as stated in the opinions of this court, reported in 150
U. S. 93, and in 159 U. S. 100.
At the third trial, the government introduced evidence tending to show that the defendant, being nineteen years of age,
and one Hampton, being seventeen years old, participated in
the killing of Whitehead and Poorboy in a shooting affray
about nine or ten o'clock at night on December 8, 1891; that
the defendant and Whitehead were white men, and Poorboy
and Hampton were Cherokee Indians; and that Hampton had
since been killed in resisting arrest. The defendant was ac-

OCTOBER TElRM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

quitted by the jury of the murder of Poorboy; but was again
convicted and sentenced upon the count for the killing of
Whitehead, and sued out this writ of error.
At this trial, Sam Manus, being called as a witness for the
government, testified that on the night of the killing the
defendant and Hampton came into his house, and said they
had killed Whitehead and his comrade, and taken their firearms and three silver dollars, all they had, from Whitehead's
pocket, and showed the witness the arms and money. Manus
further testified that he had himself been convicted and sentenced to the penitentiary fol twelve months for resisting an
officer.
Witnesses called by the defendant testified that the reputa*tion of Sam Manus for truth and veracity was bad among the
people of the neighborhood where he lived. Other witnesses,
called in rebuttal, testified that his reputation for truth and
veracity wats good.
The court instructed the jury that if "the parties or either
one of them was robbed of property or money after being
killed, that becomes a potential fact in the case to show that
there was a wilful purpose upon the part of those who may
have done the killing"; and that "if these parties were killed
for the purpose of robbery, the very fact of the robbery shows
a state of general malevolence, a general wickedness of purpose
and a general design to do wrong, that is of a doubly criminal
character in showing the existence of this element of the crime
of murder." The defendant excepted to these instructions.
The court- further instructed the jury as follows: "One of
the principal witnesses in this case is Mr. Sam Manus. He
comes before you and swears to inculpatory statements made
by the defendant as to the robbery. He swears to You as to
the statement of the defendant that he got three dollars in
silver. He swears to you in reference to a statement made by
the defendant as to taking the fire-arms of these men who
were killed. That shows a robbery, if true. Efforts have
been made and brought to bear here to break down his evidence, to destroy his evidence before you, by impeaching his
general character for truth. It is necessary in the interest of

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

truth, and in the interest of justice, and in the interest of the
enforcement of the law in this jurisdiction, that I should give
you an admonition, and the one I am now about to give you.
That is a proper way to attack a witness. It is a proper way
to destroy his evidence. But it must amount to proof of a
certain character. It must show a certain condition. It is a
method that is easily resorted to; that is often resorted to. I
cite these conditions, because I have a right to, on account of
their notoriety, on account of its being common knowledge
before you, and before this .court, that under the law I can
take judicial notice of. I say it is a method easily resorted to,
often resorted to in this jurisdiction, and resorted to as often
when it is based upon fraud, upon perjury, and upon subornation of perjury. It is a method of attack that lets in personal
spite, neighborhood grievances, personal anim.osity, personal
bickering, and the personal feelings of people. It opens wide
the door for the admission of all these things that if 'properly
considered go to cloud the judgment of men; but in many of
these cases, unfortunately, they are the very seeds from which
spring the judgment of the witness as to the general character
of the witness who comes before you. Now, that is not the
source of general character. Animosity, the feeling of hatred,
nor of neighborhood bickering, that may produce a feeling of
animosity against a man, is not the source from which impeachment by proof of general bad character is to come. It
must come to you as the opinion of the people in the neighborhood where the man is known, and that opinion must be
founded upon a state that is dispassionate, must grow out of
the dispassionate judgment of men, who are honest men, and
good men, and able and competent to make up a judgment of
that kind. It is not the judgment of the bad people, the criminal
element, the man of crime, that isto fasten upon a man and
blacken his name; that is not the state of case that would
show you that he has general bad character. That is not the
condition that must come to you when the attack is made to
be effective; but it must come to you as an honest reflection
of the opinion of the people generally in the neighborhood
where the man lives and is known."

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant, at the time of the delivery of the charge,
and before the jury retired, as appears by the bill of exceptions allowed by the presiding judge, alleged exceptions "to
all the remarks of the court in reference to the impeachment
of the witness'Sam Manus," and "to that part of the charge
in regard to the evidence of Sam Manus"; and thereby distinctly and sufficiently excepted to the instruction just quoted.
There was conflicting testimony in the case as to what took
place in the affray when Whitehead and Poorboy were killed;
and the government much relied on subsequent admissions by
the defendant, as testified to by Sam Manus. His character
fox truth and veracity was therefore an important element to
be considered by the jury who, were to decide the guilt or
innocence of the accused.
The jury were indeed instructed, in terms of themselves
unobjectionable, that the general character of a person must
come to the jury "as the opinion of the people in the neighborhood where the man is known"; and again, in equivalent
phrase, that it must come to them "as an honest reflection of
the opinion of the people generally in the neighborhood where
the person lives and is known."
Those general statements, however, were materially qualified by the intervening definition that "t h at opinion must be
founded upon a state that is dispassionate, must grow out of
the dispassionate judgment of men, who are honest men, and
good men, and able and competent to make up a judgment of
that kind" ; and "not the judgment of bad people, the criminal element, the man of crime."
The jury were thus plainly told, not only that reputation could not grow out of the opinion of criminal or bad
men; but that it could only grow out of the dispassionate
judgment of men who were honest and good, and competent
to form such a judgment. And- this, as appears throughout the instruction upon the subject, was declared to be a
necessary condition of the admissibility of the impeaching
testimony.
Th'e instruction given was too narrow and restrictive. Evidence of the reputation of a man for truth and veracity in the

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting. Opinion: Brewer, Brown, Peekham, JJ.

neighborhood of his home is equally competent to affect his
credibility as a witness, whether it is founded upon dispassionate judgment, or upon warm admiration for constant truthfulness, or natural indignation at habitual falsehood; and
whether his neighbors are virtuous or immoral in their own
lives. Such eonsiderations may affect the weight, but do not
touch the competency, of the evidence offered to impeach or
to support his testimony.
The instruction in question is pervaded by an error analogous to that for which the judgment was reversed in Smith
v. United States, 161 U. S. 85.
As the error in this respect requires the verdict to be set
aside, it would be superfluous . to pass upon the many other
questions of law presented by the bill of exceptions, and by
the assignments of error, some of which would require grave
consideration, were it necessary to decide them in the form in
which they are presented by this record.
Judgment 'eversed, and case 9,emanded, with directions to set
aside the verdict and to order a new trial.
MR. JUSTIc, BREWER (with whom concurred MR. JUsTIOE
BROWN and MI. JUSTICE PECIHA-m) dissenting.
I dissent: First. Because after three juries, thirty-six jurors,
have agreed in finding a defendant guilty of the crime charged,
and such finding has each time been approved by the trial
judge, the judgment based upon the last verdict ought not to
be disturbed unless it is manifest that the verdict is against
the truth of the case, or that the court grossly and prejudicially
erred oft the trial.
Second. Because the testimony in this case discloses an
outrageous crime, showing that this defendant in connection
with another party, that other party alread convicted of one
murder and a fugitive from justice, in the night time called
from their slumbers two officers of the law and shot them down
without provocation. Justice and the protection of society
unite in saying that it is high time such a crime was punished.
Third. Because no sufficient exception was taken. The
VOL. cLxIv-15

OCTOBER TERAI, 1800.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, Peckham, JJ.

entire charge of the court fills about thirty-seven clo.sely printed
pages of the record. if reprinted here it would make nearly
seventy-five pages of this volume. With the exception of two
or three short instructions at the close, it does not consist of
separate instructions, but is one continuous charge. This charge
was excepted to, as appears from the record, in this way: "Defendant, John Brown, excepts to those parts of the charge of
the court to the jury at the time of the delivery thereof, as
follows, to wit, first, to that part of the charge relating to what
the court says as to evidence that "cannot be bullied or bribed,'
as to the 'fruits of the crime, the taking of the money,' etc.;
second, as to the definition and illustrations of ' wilfully '" and
so on through a series of twenty-five or thirty specifications,
c6vering therewith the entire charge. The seventeenth is as
follows: "Defendant excepts to all the remarks of the court
in reference to the impeachment of the witness, Sam Manus" ;
and again," also excepts to that part of the charge in regard
to the evidence of Sam Manus." And in this way only was
objection made or exception taken to the charge, or any part
of it. Now, there is about a page referring to the testimony
of Sam Manus. On this page are stated certain rules of law,
which it is conceded are correct, and it is only a portion of the
language used in reference to the testimony of Sam Manus that
the court considers objectionable. I have always understood
that the purpose of an objection and exception was to call the
attention of the trial court to the particular words or phrases
complained of in order that it might have an opportunity to
consider, and if need be correct the alleged errbr. The decision in this case seems to entirely ignore this purpose and to
make the noting of an objection and exception simply a request
to the appellate court to search through the several pages of
a charge for any sentence or sentences which its critical eye
may disapprove of. For all practical purposes a single exception might just as well have been taken to the entire charge.
Fourth. Because this part of the charge is as a whole unobjectionable. The testimony referred to was admitted, and
therefore held to be competent. The rule of law in reference
to impeachment was correctly stated, and the objectionable

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.

227

Statement of the Case.

matter was prefaced by a declaration of the court that it gives
a matter of admonition. That admonition was just and sound.
Reputation is the general judgment of the community in respect to the witness whose reputation is challenged, and is not
made up by the flippant talk of a few outlaws.
For these reasons I dissent.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN and MR. JusTICE PEKHAx concur in
this dissent.

PRAIRIE STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. IHITCHCOCK.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 10, 16. Arg ud October 13, 14, 1896.- Decided November 30, 1896.
S. contracted with the United States, in 1888, to erect a custom-house at
Galveston. H. was his surety on a bond to the United States for the
faithful performance of that contract. The contract gave the government a right to retain a part of the price until the work should be finished. In consideration of advances made, and to be made, by a bank,
S. gave it in 1890, written authority to receive from the United States
the final contract payment so reserved. The Treasury declined to recognize this authority, but consented, on the request of the contractor, to
forward, when due, a check for the final payment to the representative
of the bank. Later S. defaulted in the performance of his contract, and
I., as surety, without knowledge of what had taken place between the
bank, the contractor and the Treasury, assumed performance of the contract obligations, and completed the work, disbursing, in so doing, without reimbursement, an amount in excess of the reserved final payment.
The bank and II., each by a separate action, sought to recover that
reserved sum from the government. The cases being heard together it
Is Held, that, a claim against the government not being transferable, the
rights of the parties are equitable only, and the equity, if any, of the
bank in the reserved fund, being acquired in 1890, was subordinate to
the equity of H. acquired in 1888.

THE real contestants in the controversy below were the
Prairie State National Bank and Charles A. Hitchcock, who
respectively claimed the right to receive from the government

