NORTHERN PACIFIC RAIJLROAD v. COLBURN.

383

Statement of the Case.

case believed that the witnesses committed perjury. On the
contrary it may well be that it simply found the testimony so
confused, so lacking in distinctness and precision, as to suggest
a weakening of the memory through lapse of time, and, therefore, not the satisfactory proof required of these essential facts.
We are not at liberty to refer to the opinion for the purpose of eking out, controlling or modifying the scope of the
findings. British Queen Tliabing Co. v. Baker Silver Mining
Co., 139 U. S. 222; Lehnen v. Dickson, 148 U. S. 11 ; Saltontall v. Birthell, 150 U. S. 417. Neither is this a case like
United States v. Clark, 96 IT. S. 37, in which in one finding
was stated the testimony, and in another the conclusion as
to the ultimate fact, in which case the court held that it
might consider the sufficiency of such testimony to establish
that principal fact, for here the finding does not disclose the
testimony, but only describes its character, and, without questioning its competency, simply declares its insufficiency.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY

v. COLBURN.
EROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 0.

Argued October 21, 1S96. - Decided November 80, 1896.

The Supreme Court of the State of Montana having decided adversely to
the plaintiff in error a claim of title to land under an act of Congress, a
Federal question was thereby raised.
No predmption or homestead claim attaches to a tract of public land until
an entry in the local land office; and the ruling by the state court that
occupation and cultivation by the claimant created a claim exempting
the occupied land from passing to the railroad company under its land
grant, is a decision on a matter of law open to review in this court.
The facts found below were not of themselves sufficient to disturb the title
of the railroad company under the grant from Congress.

ON April 23, 1892, defendant in error, as plaintiff, filed in
the district court of the county of Gallatin, Montana, his com-

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

plaint against the railroad company to.recover a sum of money
paid as the contract price of a tract of land conveyed by it to
him. The contract was alleged to have been made on January 16, 1886, by the company, with Nathan Frost, who, in the
same year, transferred his interest to John R. Foster, who, in
1888, in like manner conveyed to the plaintiff. Payments by
the terms of the contract were to be made and were made on
January 16 of the years 1886, 1887, 1888, 1889, 1890 and 1891.
The complaint further alleged that the railroad company did
not have and could not convey any title to the land; -that in
January, 1891, in certain proceedings in contest, the Secretary
of the Interior decided that the land did not pass under the
land grant to the railroad company, but was subject to entry
and patent under the general land laws of the United States;
and that during that year a patent was issued to the plaintiff.
The railroad company answered, setting up the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, making to it %land
grant of twenty alternate sections per mile on each side of its
road in the Territories of the United States; the filing on
February 21, 1872, in the office of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, of its map of general route, as provided
in section six of the act; the like filing on July 6, 1882, of its
line of definite location; the construction of its road ; that
this land was not mineral; was free from pregmption and
other claims; was in an odd-numbered section within forty
miles of its-line of general route and twenty miles of its road
as definitely located and constructed, and situated within the
Territory of Montana and alleged that thereby it acquired
full title. It set forth in terms the contract of January 16,
1886, with Nathan Frost, the various transfers by which, on
January 15, 1888, the plaintiff obtained title thereto, admitted
the paymentS, and alleged an execution and delivery to the
plaintiff of a deed, in conformity to the terms of the contract;
and further, that his possession had never been disturbed or
his title assailed or impaired. It admitted that at the time of
the filing of the map of definite location one Horace F. Kelly
claimed to be occupying and cultivating the ]and, but denied
that he had inade any entry or filing in the local land office.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. COLBURN.

3S5

Opinion of the Court.

It alleged that in 1888, :Foster, plaintiff's immediate grantor,
contested the right of the railroad company to this land, that
a contest thereon was bad in the land office and finally on
appeal before the Secretary of the Interior, who held that
Kelly's cultivation and occupation created a claim which he
could have perfected under the public land laws, and therefore excepted the land from the scope of the company's grant.
It denied that a patent had been issued to the plaintiff, or to
any one else, and alleged that prior to plaintiff's purchase of
the contract from Foster he knew of the claim that the land
was not within the scope of the company's land grant and was
not its property.
To this answer a demurrer was filed by the plaintiff
which was spstained by the circuit court, and a judgment
rendered for the plaintiff: Thereupon the case was taken to
the Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed the judgment, 13 Montana, 476, and the railroad company sued out
this writ of error.
Mr. . T. Bunn for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BReWER, after stating the case. delivered the
opinion of the court.

A motion is made to dismiss for lack of a Federal question.
The contention is that the defendant disclosed in its answer
a decision of the land department; that it is bound by its
own pleadings; and that having pleaded this decision of the
land department, that decision is final and conclusive until set
aside in a direct proceeding instituted for that purpose. This
motion must be overruled. The answer of the company
alleged the Congressional land grant, and the facts and circunstances which under that grant created, as claimed, a title
in it to the land. It is true it also set up certain proceedings
in the land department, but that was by way of answer to
the allegations in the complaint of a decision by that departiment claimed by the plaintiff to be controlling, and disclosed
VOL. cLxi -25

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in detail the facts upon which that decision was based and
the terms of the decision itself in order to show that such
decision was ineffective to disturb the title which it took by
virtue of the land grant and the proceedings had thereunder.
If the company had relied upon this decision as its defence
against the action, and the court had decided ir1 favor of its
validity, a different conclusion might be reached. The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State was adverse to the
claim of title made by the company. It denied to it the
right which it asserted under the act of Congress, -and a
Federal question is, therefore, preseifted.
On the merits of the case it may be observed that the
burden of the decision of the Supreme Court of the State is
that because the land department had decided adversely to
.the claim of the railroad company and because no direct
proceedings had been had to set aside that decision, it was
conclusive against the company. In this we think the learned
court erred. The facts set up in the answer in reference to
the land grant, the filing, of the map of the line of general
route and also that of definite location, the situation of the
land, and its freedom from record claims, were such as to
primafacie vest a title in the company. It is true it is 'also
disclosed by the answer that one Kelly was in occupation, or
at least cultivating the land at the time of the filing of the
map of definite location, and the decision of the land department as to that fact undoubtedly concludes both parties.
And if it be true, as matter of law, that mere occupation or
cultivation of the premises at the time of the filing of the
map of definite location, unaccompanied by any filing of a
claim in the land office then or thereafter, excludes the tract
from the operation of the land grant, the decision of the
Supreme Court of Montana was right. But frequent decisions of this court have been to the effect that no pregnption
or homestead claim attaches to a tract until an entry in the
local land office. Thus, in the case of ]fansas Pacfio Railroad v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, 644, Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking for the court, said:
"Of all the words in *the English language, this word

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. COLBtTR3.

387

Opinion of the Court.

'attached 'was probably the best that could have been used.
It did not mean mere settlement, residence or cultivation of
the land, but it meant a proceeding in the proper land office,
by which the inchoate right to the land was initiated. It
meant that by such a proceeding a right of homestead had
fastened to that land, which could ripen into a perfect title
by future residence and cultivation."
This language was quoted and the decision reaffirmed in
IIastings & Dakota Railroadv. Whitney, 132 .U. S. 357; WFitney v.. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85. In Laisdale v. Danels, 100
U. S. 113, 116, it was ruled that "such a notice of claim or
declaratory statement is indispensably necessary to give the
claimant any standing as a preemptor, the rule being that his
settlement alone is not sufficient for that purpose." See also
JMaddox v. Burnham, 156 U. S. 544. Ngow in this case the
allegations are that Kelly never made any entry in the local
land office, and the decision of the Secretary of the Interior
is based simply on the fact of occupation and cultivation.
And while the decision of that fact may be conclusive between
the parties, his ruling that such occupation and cultivation created a claim exempting the land from the operation of the land
grant, is a decision on a matter of law which does not conclude
the parties, and which is open to review in the courts.
In this connection it may be borne in mind that the act of
Congress operated to pass the fee of the land to the company,
and this independently of the issue of a patent. St. Paul &
Pacific Railroadv. Nlorthern Paiflc Railroad,139 U. S.1, 6;
.Deseret Salt Gompany v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241.
While it
is alleged in the complaint that a patent had been issued to
the plaintiff, this fact is denied in the answer, so that the case
is presented of a mere decision of the Secretary of the Interior
that the plaintiff was entitled to a patent and not that of a
patent already issued.
Though a patent had been issued it'would not follow that
that is conclusive in even an action at law, and that in all
cases some direct proceeding to set aside the patent is necessary. Burfenning v. Chicago, St. Paul &c. Railway, 163
U. S.321, and cases cited in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

There are other questions in this case, such as the significance of an "expired filing" the omission in the Northern
Pacific land grant of the word " attarh ed" in respect to preemption claims which seems to have been deemed by this court
sigiificant in the constrdction of the Union Pacific and other
land grants, the question whether, after the filing of the map
of. general route on February 21, 1872, any rights of preemption or homestead could be acquired in this land, and also
whether, as plaintiff had not been disturbed in his possession and 'made his payjments with notice of all the facts, he
must not be held to have made such payments voluntarily or
only under a mistake of law, and so be precluded from recovering. But as none of these matters were considered by the Supreme Court of the State, and are not noticed by counsel for
defendant in error, we deem it unwise to make any observations
thereon, leaving them for consideration in the future progress
of the case.
-For the reasons above indicated, because the decision of the
land department was only on matters of fact and did not conclude the law of the cas6, and because such facts so found
were not of themselves sufficient to disturb the title of the
railroad company, the judgment is
Reversed and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of the
State for further proceedlngs not inconsistent with this
olvinion.
ACERS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR T E
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 893.

Submitted October 22, 1896. -Decided

November 80, 1896.

The exceptions to this charge are taken in the careless way which prevails
in the Western District of Arkansas.
In a trial for assault with intent to kill, a charge which distinguishes
between the assault and the intent to kill, and charges, specifically that
each mu'st be proved, that the intent can only be found from the circumstances of the transaction, pointing out things which tend to disclose
the real intent, is not objectionable.

