UNITD STATES v. McMAHON.
Syllabus.

should be affirmed because there is nothing in the record to
show that they were prejudiced or embarrassed in their defence by the course pursued. But we do-not concur in this
view. While the general rule is that counts for several felonies
of the same general nature, requiring the same mode of trial
and punishment, may be joined in the same indictment, subject
to the power of the court to quash the indictment or to compel
an election, such joinder cannot be sustained where the parties
are not the same and where the offences are in nowise parts
of the same transaction and must depend upon evidence of a
different state of facts as to each or some of them. It cannot
be said in such case that all the defendants may not have been
embarrassed and.prejudiced in their defence, or that the attention of the jury may not have been distracted to their injury
in passing upon distinct and independent transactions. The
order of consolidation was not authorized by statute and did
not rest in mere discretion.
Judgment reversed as to all the defendants and cause remanded with directions to grant a new trial and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE PEcKnAm concurred
in the reversal as to Stuffiebeam and Charles Hook only.

UNITED STATES v. McMAHON.
MoMAHON

v. UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 356, 357. Argued October 21, 1896. -Decided

November 2, 1M9G.

The fees to which a marshal is entitled, under Rev. Stat. § 829, for attending criminal examinations in separate and distinct cases upon the same
day and before the same commissioner, are five dollars a day; but when
he attends such examinations before different commissioners on the same
day he is entitled to a fee of two dollars for attendance before each
commissioner.
A special deputy marshal, appointed under Rev. Stat. § 2021, to attend
VOL. cLxiv-6

OCTOBER TER-M, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
before commissioners and aid and assist supervisors of elections, is entitled to an allowance of five dollars per day in full compensation for all
such services.
The marshal of the Southern District of New York, who transports convicts from New York City to the state penitentiary in Erie County in the
Northern District of New Y6rk is entitled to fees at the rate of ten
cents per mile for the transportation, instead of the actual expense
thereof.
A marshal is not entitled to a fee of two dollars for serving temporary an(i
final warrants of commitment.
THESE were writs of error sued.out by both parties: to review
a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, affirming, except in one particular, a judgment of the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York for
$4843.60 in favor of the petitioner McMahon, for fees and
disbursements as marshal for that district, from July 7, 1885,
to January 12, 1890. The opinion of the Court of Appeals
is found in 26 U. S. App. 687.
. The assignments of error filed -by both parties are set out
in the opinion of the court.

Mr&. AssistantAttorney GeneralDodge for the United States.
AfXr. Felix Brannigan was on his brief.
.Mr. Richard Randolph 31oMahon for McMahon.
MRIn. JusTicE, BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.
In these cases the government assigns as error1. The allowance of a charge of two dollars. per day for
attending criminal examinations in separate and distinct cases
upon the same day; these examinations being on some days
all before the same commissioner, and on others before different commissioners. The evidence does not disclose how much
of this amount is applicable td each class of cases.
By Rev. Stat. § 829, the marshal is allowed "for attending
and for bringing in
the Circuit and District Courts, . .
and committing prisoners and witnesses during the term, five
dollars a day," and "for attending exaniinations before a commissioner, and bringing in, guarding and returning prisoners

UJNITED STATES v. MlcfAHIO1.
Opinion of the Court.

charged with crime, and witnesses, two dollars a day; and
for each deputy, not exceeding two, necessarily attending, two
dollars a day." If the fee were two dollars for attending
examinations simply, it might well be held that he was entitled to that amount for each examination, tbough there were
a dozen in a single day; but as the allowance is not for each
examination but for each day, we think it clear that the
marshal is only entitled to a single fee. It is scarcely possible to suppose that he would be allowed but five dollars
for attending court, irrespective of the number of- cases disposed of or of the number of prisoners brought in and committed, and yet be allowed separate fees in each case before
a commissioner, which in the aggregate might be double the
amount allowed
Cl. 1.for attending court. McCaferty v. United
States, 26 0.
But when a marshal attends examinations before two different commissioners on the same day, we think he is ntitled
to his fee of two dollars for attendance before each commissioner. -Inthe case of United States v. Erwin, 147 U. S. 685,
we held that a district attorney was entitled to charge a per
diem for services before a commissioner upon the same day
that he was allowed a per diem for attendance upon court;
and the argument controlling our opinion in that case is
equally applicable here. It is true that -in that case the
charge was for attending before the court and before a
single commissioner upon the same day; but where the
officer attends before two or more commissioners, who may
hold their sessions at a distance from each other, we see no
reason why he should not be entitled to a fee in the case
of each commissioner.
2. The allowance of two dollars per day to special deputy
marshals for attendance 'before a commissioner on November
2, 1886, "said day being an election day." The finding is
that for his service upon this day each deputy marshal received a per diem of five dollars. - It is not directly found by
the Circuit Court that these special deputies were appointed
pursuant to Rev. Stat. § 2021, Title XXVI, but as it is so
admitted in the briefs of counsel, and as this title makes the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

only provision for the appointment of special deputies, we
may assume that to be the fact. The duties of such special
deputies, who are appointed by the marshal to aid and assist
the supervisors of election, are fixed by §§ 2021, 2022 and
2023. They are in general to keep the peace, support and
protect the supervisors of the election in the discharge of
their duties, preserve order, to arrest and take into custody
any person offending against the law, when (§2023) "the
person so arrested shall forthwith be brought before a commissioner . . . for exaiiination of the offences alleged
against him." By § 2031, "there shall be allowed and paid
to . . . each special deputy marshal who is appointed
and performs his duty under the preceding provisions, compensattion at the rate of five dollars per day for each day he
is actually on duty, not exceeding ten days."
As it appears by these sections that the attendance of the
deputy before the commissioner is incidental to his service in
arresting the fraudulent voter and taking him before the commissioner, we think it is covered by the per diem provided by
§ 2031. The allowance of five dollars per day was evidently
intended to be full compensation for all services performed
by him as such deputy. The assignment is well taken.
3. Exception is also taken to the allowance of fees at the
rate of ten cents per mile for transporting convicts from :New
York City to the. state penitentiary in Erie County, in the
Northern District of New York, instead of the actual expense
of such transportation. By Rev. Stat. § 829, the marshal is
allowed "for transporting criminals, ten cents a mile for himself and for each prisoner and necessary guard," with the
following exception: "for transporting criminals convicted
of a crime in any District or Territory, where there is no
penitentiary available for the confinement of convicts of the
United States, to a prison irf another District or Territory
designated by the Attorney General, the reasonable actual
expense of the transportation of the criminals, the marshal
and the guards, and the necessary subsistence and hire." It
appears that no prison in the State of New York has been
expressly designated by the Attorney General for the confine-

UNITED STATES v. MOIAHON.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of Federal convicts, but by the state law it is the duty
of the keepers of state prisons to receive and keep- such convicts, when sentenced to imprisonment therein by any court
of the United States sitting within the State. Literally, the
service charged for in this case does not fall within the second
paragraph of the above section, since it does not appear that
there is no penitentiary available within the Southern District
of New York, nor does it appear that the penitentiary in
Erie County has been designated by the Attorney General for
the confinement of Federal convicts.
There are other provisions of law, however, which it is
necessary to consider in this connection. By Rev. Stat.
§ 5540, originally enacted in 1856, " where a judicial district
has been or may hereafter be divided (New York was originally
a single district, act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. '3),
the Circuit and District Courts of the United States shall have
power to sentence any one convicted of an offence punishable
by imprisonment at hard labor to the penitentiary within the
State, though it be out of the judicial district in which the
conviction is had." Moreover, by Rev. Stat. § 5541, originally
enacted in 1865, "in every case where any person convicted of
any offence against the United States is sentenced to imprisonment for a period longer than one year, the court
may order the same to be executed in any state jail or penitentiary within the District or State where such court is held,"
etc., and by .Rev. Stat. § 5542 a similar provision is made
where the convict is sentenced to imprisonment and confinement to hard labor.
By a subsequent act of July 12, 1876. c. 183, 19 Stat. 88,
amending Rev. Stat. § 5546, convicts "whose punishment is
imprisonment in a District or Territory where, at the time of
conviction,

.

.

there may be no penitentiary or jail suit-

.

able for the confinement of convicts, or available therefor,
shall be confined

.

.

.

in some suitable jail or penitentiary

in a convenient State or Territory to be designated by the
Attorney General," in which case the marshal is only allowed
the reasonable actual expenses of transportation, etc.; "but if,
in the opinion of the Attorney General, the expense of trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

portation from any State

.

.

.

in which there is no peni-

tentiary, will exceed the cost of maintaining them in jail in
the State,

.

.

then it shall be lawful so to confine them

therein for the period designated in their respective sentences."
We see no reason to suppose that this act was intended to
repeal Rev. Stat. §§ 5540, 554:1 and 5542, since the act is a
mere reenactment of original § 5546, enacted in 1864 (one
year before § 5541), except that it permits the place of confinement of the convict to be changed, whenever the penitentiary
to which he is sentenced becomes unsuitable or unavailable at
any time during the term of imprisonment; and by a further
clause, permission is given the Attorney General to change the
place of imprisonment whenever it is necessary for the preservation of the health of the prisoner, or the place of confinement becomes insecure, or the prisoner is cruelly or improperly
treated.
Upon the other hand, it appears to us that it was the intention of Congress that these several provisions should be read
together, and that the restriction of the marshal to his expenses
of transportation was only designed to apply where the-Attorney General has found that there is no available penitentiary within the district, and has designated a prison in another
district for that purpose. It does not necessarily follow that,
because a portion of his travel was outside his district, 'he
is limited to his expenses, since the first paragraph of § ,829,
above quoted, is a general provision allowing him mileage with
the exception provided for in the next paragraph. As the
travel was actually made, the marshal is presumed to have
earned his mileage, and the burden is upon the government to
show that the transportation falls within the excepted clause.
While the authority of the marshal, as such, is confined to his
district, it may be lawfully extended by the United States to
other districts for special purposes, such, for instance, as the
service of a subpena, for which it has usually been held the
marshal was entitled to mileage, though the service was made
outside his district.
Sections 5540 to 5542 were apparently designed to apply to
cases where the State contains more than one district, while

UNITED STATES v. McAIAHON.
Opinion of the Court.

53546 was probably intended, notwithstanding the use of the
words "District or Territory," in the first clause, to apply to
the not infrequent cases where there is no suitable penitentiary
within the State, in which case the court is authorized to commit the convict to some suit.ble penitentiary "in a convenient
State or Territory, to be designated by the Attorney General."
This power has been frequently exercised by courts of the
Western States by committing prisoners to penitentiaries in
the Northern or Eastern States. Where the penitentiary is
located in the same State, it would seem reasonable that the
marshal should be entitled to his mileage, though the state
prison may happen to be in another district, since it may be
in fact quite as near to the place where his court is held, as it
is to the place where the court is held in the district of its
actual location.
Why these convicts were sent to a penitentiary outside the
district in which they were tried does not appear, but we
are bound to presume that the action of the court in that
particular was taken for a good and sufficient reason, and
was dictated by what it conceived to be the best interests of
the government. As, under §§ 5541 an'd 5542, it was within
the discretion of the court to sentence the convicts to any
penitentiary within the State, the mileage was properly
allowed.
4. The last item to which exception is taken by the government is to a charge of two dollars for serving temporary
and final warrants of commitment. As the court had previously disallowed a charge of $503 for serving temporary warrants of commitment, the allowance of this item was probably
an oversight. In United States v. Tanner, 147 U. S. 661, we
held that the marshal was not entitled to charge for mileage
in serving warrants of commitment, upon the ground that he
was allowed ten cents mileage for his own transportation and
that of his prisoner, and that the delivery of such warrants
to the warden of the penitentiary was not a "service" within
the meaning of § 829. We have seen no reason to change
our views in that particular. The word "service" in this
connection ordinarily iniplies something in the nature of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

act or proceeding adverse to the party served, or of a notice
to him, and we think was not intended to cover the case of
a warrant deposited with the warden of a penitentiary as a
voucher or authoriky for detaining the prisoner. Moreover,
it is scarcely possible that Congress could have intended to
allow the marshal ten cents a mile for his own travel when
accompanying a prisoner, and at the same time to allow him
six cents for carrying the warrant of commitment with him;
or to allow him fifty cents for a commitment of the prisoner
and also two dollars for serving a warrant of commitment,
when the commitment would not be valid without the warrant, and the commitment and service of the warrant are
contemporaneous acts. As the per diem of the marshal for
attendance before the court or commissioner includes "the
bringing in, guarding and returning prisoners charged with
crime," and as, by § 1030, "no writ is necessary to bring into
court any prisoner or person in custody, or for remanding him
from the court into custody; but the same shall be done on
the order of the court or district attorney, for which no fee
shall be charged by the clerk or marshal," and no such warrant appears to be necessary under the practice in the State
of New York, the issue of such warrants, except perhaps the
first one, appears to be unnecessary.
In the case of the writ sued out by McMahon the plaintiff
assigns as error the action of the Court .of Appeals in rejecting a charge for serving temporary warrants of commitment
issued by a commissioner; but as this is covered by the point
last decided, it is unnecessary t6 consider it.
It results that in the case of the United States v. McMahon
the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed,
and the case remanded for a new judgment in conformity
with this opinion.

