NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS v. NEW ORLEANS.

471

Syllabus.

order of the master, and without knowledge or notice that the
vessel was operated under a charter party, or if coal had been
furnished upon the order of the charterer as well as upon the
credit of the vessel, under circumstances which did not charge
libellant with knowledge of the terms of the charter party,
but charged it only with knowledge of the fact that the vessel
was being operated under a charter party, a different question
would be presented.
It is unnecessary for the decision of this case to consider
whether the statute of New York, if interpreted as claimed
by the libellant, would be repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution. We decide only that libellant has no lien
on the vessel under the maritime law, and that the statute of
New York, reasonably construed, does not assume to give a
lien where supplies are furnished to a foreign vessel upon the
order of the charterer, with knowledge upon the part of the
person or corporation furnishing them, that the charterer does
not represent the owners, but by contract with them has
undertaken to furnish such supplies at his own cost.
The decree of the District Court dismissing the libel is,
therefore,
.Affrmed.

NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS COMPANY v.
NEW ORLEANS.
APPEAL FROM THE cIRcurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRIOT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 1U.

Argued November 4, 1S96. -Decided

November 30, 1696.

In the absence of parties interested, and without their having an opportunity to be heard, a court is without jurisdiction to make an adjudication
affecting them.
A court of equity cannot properly interfere with, or in advance restrain the
discretion of a municipal body while it is in the exercise of powers that
are legislative in their character.
Legislatures may delegate to municipal assemblies the power of enacting
ordinances relating to local matters, and such ordinances, when legally
enacted, have the force 9f legislative acts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. J. R. Beckwith for appellant.
Mr. Samuel L. Gilmore and .Mr. Hen y J. .Leovy for
appellee.
.2f. Thomas J. ,Semmes filed a brief for appellee.
MX.

JUsTICE

HRxLA". delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was determined in the court below upon demurrer
to the bill. The question presented is whether the bill set
forth a cause of action entitling the appellant, who was the
plaintiff below, to the relief asked.
The case made by the bill is substantially as follows: By
the fifth section of the act of the general assembly of Louisiana,
commonly known as Act No. 33, Extra Session of 1877, it was
provided that the New Orleans Water Works Company, in its
corporate capacity, should own and possess the privileges acquired by the city of New Orleans from the Commercial
Bank; that it should have, for fifty years from the passage of
the act, the exclusive privilege of supplying the city of New
Orleans and its inhabitants with water from the Mississippi
River, or any other stream or river, by meaus of pipes and
conduits, and for erecting or constructing any necessary works
or engines or machines for that purpose; that it might contract for, purchase or lease any land or lots of ground, or the
right to pass over and enter the same from time to time as
occasion required, through which it might be necessary to
convey the water into said city, or to distribute the same to
the inhabitants of said city, and construct, dig or cause to be
opened any canals or trenches whatsoever for the conducting
of the water of the rivers from any place or places it deemed
fit, and raise and construct such dykes, mounds and reservoirs
as might be required for securing and carrying a full supply of
pure water to the city and its inhabitants; enter upon and sur-.
vey such lands as it might think proper, in order to ascertain

NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS v. NEW ORLEANS.

473

Opinion of the Court.

the best mode of furnishing a supply of water; and lay and
place any number of conduits or pipes or aqueducts, and
cleanse and repair the same, through or over any of the lands
or streets of the city, provided the same should not be an
obstruction to commerce or free circulation.
The eighteenth section of the same act provided: "That
nothing in this act shall be so construed as to prevent the city
council from granting to any person or persons, contiguous to
the river, the privilege of laying pipes to the river exclusively
for his own or their own use."
While the New Orleans Water Works Company was proceeding under the above legislative enactment constituting its
charter, the Louisiana constitution of 1879 was adopted. By
article 258 of that constitution it was provided:" "All rights,
actions, prosecutions, claims and contracts, as well of individuals
as of bodies corporate, and all laws in force at the time of the
adoption of this constitution, and not inconsistent therewith,
shal continue as if the said constitution had not been adopted.
But the monopoly features in the charter of any corporation
now existing in the State, save.such as may be contained in
the charters of railroad companies, are hereby repealed."
After this constitutional provision took effect, the, city
council of New Orleans passed, November 15, 1882, an ordinance allowing Robert E. Rivers, the lessee of the St. Charles
Hotel in New Orleans, "the right of way and privilege to lay
a water pipe from the Mississippi River, at any point opposite
the head of Common or Gravier streets, through either of
these streets to said hotel, its front and side streets, with all
needed attachments and appurtenances, and to distribute said
water through said hotel as said Rivers, or lessee, may desire
from said pipes," etc.
Rivers being about to take the benefit of this ordinance, the
Water Works Company commenced suit against him in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, in which it sought a decree perpetually restraining
him from laying pipes, conduits or mains in the public streets
of New Orleans for the purpose of conveying water from the
Mississippi River to his hotel. The company proceeded in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that suit upon the ground that it had a valid contract with
the State and city for an exclusive right for the full term of
fifty years, from March 31, 1877, of supplying the city of
New Orleans and its inhabitants, other than those contiguous
to the 'Mississippi River, with water from that stream by
means of pipes and conduits placed in the streets of that city,
and that the obligation of that contract was protected by the
Constitution of the United States against impairment by any
act of the State. Rivers claimed the right to proceed with
the construction of pipes, mains and conduits under the authority of the ordinance above referred to, which rested for its
validity, as he, claimed, upon the constitution and laws of
Louisiana.
The bill filed by the Water Works Company against Rivers
was dismissed in the Circuit Court, and upon appeal to this
court the judgment of dismissal was reversed, with the direction to enter a decree perpetually restraining Rivers, as prayed
for in the bill filed by the Water Works Company. The
opinion in Aew Orleans 1rater Works Company v. Rivers,
115 U. S. 674:, states fully the grounds upon which this court
proceeded.
In 1882 the St. Tammany Water Works Company was
organized under the general laws of Louisiana for the purpose
of furnishing and supplying the inhabitants of the city of New
Orleans and other localities contiguous to the line of its works
with an ample supply of clear and wholesome water from
such rivers, streams and other fountain sources as might be
found most available for such purpose by means of pipes and
conduits. The company being about to take steps to obtain
authority for bringing into New Orleans the waters of the
Bogue Falaya River in the parish of St. Tammany, and distributing the same by means of pipes, mains and conduits
placed in the streets of the city parallel with those constructed
by the New Orleans Water Works Company, the latter corporation instituted, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, a suit for an injunction
to restrain the other company from carrying out its scheme.
On appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court granting the

NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS v. NEW ORLEANl.

475

Opinion of the Court.

injunction, this court reaffirmed the principles announced in
the Rivers case, saying: "As the exclusive right of the appellee to supply the city of New Orleans and its inhabitants
with water was not restricted to water drawn from the Mississippi River, but embraced water from any other stream, it
is impossible to distinguish this case in principle from that of
the New Orleans Water .TWorks Company v. Rivers. Upon
the authority of the latter case it must be held that the carrying out by the appellant of its scheme for a system of water
works in New Orleans would be in violation of the rights of
the appellee, and that the state constitution of 1879, so far
as it assumes to withdraw the exclusive privileges granted to
the appellee, is inconsistent with the clause of the national
Constitution forbidding a State from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts." Tammany Water Works Co.
v. New Orleans Water Works Co., 120 U. S. 6-4, 67.
The present suit was brought February 8, 1894, by the New
Orleans Water Works Company against the city of New
Orleans. The bill sets out the foregoing facts, and gives the
history of the two cases to which reference has been made.
It further alleged that after the above adjudications the
defendant continued to make and promulgate ordinances conferring upon individuals and corporations the right to lay pipes
and mains through the streets and public ways of New Orleans
to premises not contiguous to the rivers and waters with which
said pipes and mains connected, from which the water supply
is drawn and consumed within the city of New Orleans, such
premises not being included in the proviso in the plaintiff's
charter relating to the owners of property contiguous to said
waters; that the defendant has continued to pass and promulgate such ordinances, and threatens to continue to do so,
in the future; that the ordinances set forth by copy, and
contained in Exhibit C2, filed with and made a part of the
bill, had been adopted and promulgated by the defendant in
open defiance and disregard of the plaintiff's rights; that the
plaintiff is advised and believes that the said ordinances set
forth in said Exhibit C constitute but a portiori of those of
like character adopted and promulgated by the defendant;

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that in nearly all instances where said ordinances have been
adopted and promulgated the parties named as the beneficiaries
or grantees therein have-availed themselves of the said act of
the city to lay pipes and mains through the streets and public
ways of the city, and established pumping machinery to draw
water through said mains for a water supply; that in the
instances where they have not already availed themselves of
this supposed warrant to establish water works of their own
they are intending to s6 establish pipes and mains, and will
do so unless restrained therefrom by the courts; and that
none of the premises referred to in said ordinances are contiguous to the Mississippi River, or within the proviso contained in the plaintiff's charter and contract with the State
relating to or affecting the owners of property contiguous to
the river.
The bill also alleged that most of the persons and corporations named as grantees in said ordinances are large consumers
of water, and but for said wrongful act of the city would be
customers of and consumers of the water provided as public
water supply by the plaintiff ; that the plaintiff has pipes and
mains so located that it could supply all of said premises with
water, and should receive recompense and profit thereby; that
its franchises, and the income that should accrue to it from
public water supply, have been lessened and its revenues
diminished by a sum exceeding thirty thousand dollars in
the past, and that such-loss of income and revenue is concontinued during the lifetime or cbrporate
tinuing, and ifexistence of the plaintiff, would amount to many thousand[
dollars more; that many of the said ordinances of the city of
New Orleans complained of containon the face thereof a condition that said license or grant of the right to lay pipes and
mains and pump water from the river shall continue only during
the will of the defendant; that in the cases where that provision
is not contained in the text of the ordinances, the city has full
and complete power to revoke and recall such fraudulent and
wrongful grants and permissions at its will, and thereby cease
to countenance said wrongdoers, or furnish them with any
colorable right to continue and maintain said pipes and mains

NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS v. NEW ORLEANS.

477

Opinion of the Court.

so wrongfully established, and in goodconscience should recall,
revoke and expunge all of said pretended ordinances and regu-,
lations, of its own motion, without compulsion; that by reason
of the said wrongful acts of the defendant, and the large
number of grants and privileges made by the city, it is practically impossible for the plaintiff to obtain fall and adequate
relief through proceedings instituted against the said several
persons and corporations receiving said supposed grants and
authority to establish pipes and pumping machinery for the
purpose of drawing water from the Mississippi River by reason
of the great delays and the enormous expense of litigating
with so many several defendants, and the multiplicity of suits
and actions necessary to restrain said wrongful acts by proceeding against the several supposed grantees.
It was further alleged that the defendant and other persoils
proposing to assail the plaintiff's rights contend that there -is
ambiguity and uncertainty in the 18th section of plaintiff's
charter; that at the time of the acceptance of its charter and
grant the plaintiff was advised, and it believes correctly, that
said section 18 could only lawfully be construed as conferring
upon the city the right to grant the privilege of laying pipes
to such person or persons, or corporations as may, at the time
of such grant, be the owner of, or in the lawful possession of,
real estate or property extending down to the river front and
touching the said river, and having riparian rights on the
banks of said river, subject only to such public servitude, or
right of way, as may be impressed upon said property by the
operation of the general statutes of Louisiana, bearing upon
servitudes attaching to public waters, relating to the right of
the public to moor and unload vessels at such banks, and a
right of way for travel, or public ,roads on or along the banks
of such waters, and the servitude or right the public may have
to occupy the banks of rivers, and to establish levees, or embankments, to prevent overflow, where such pfiblic waters are
subject or liable to overflow, from any cause; that the defendant and others allege and insist that such construction does
not express the intent of the legislature of the State in granting said.franchises, and insist upon a construction and- range

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

for § 18, which, if correct, would destroy the plaintiff's rights
and privileges conferred under and by its charter, in so far as
the same relate to the territory and limit within which -the
plaintiff has the exclusive right to furnish public water supply through pipes and mains; that this alleged ambiguity has
given rise to serious contention, has already caused, and, if
continued, will in the future cause, the plaintiff much contention, litigation, expense, loss and damage; that it is important that the true, actual and proper construction of said
.§.'18, and the proviso therein contained, should be judicially
ascertained and decreed; that the court should adjudge,
decree and declare, as between the plaintiff and the defendant, the true and actual meaning and construction of said
section and proviso, in order that all future disputes and contentions in relation thereto may be at an end, and the plaintiff have knowledge of its actual rights in the premises; that
the plaintiff is remediless in a court of law, and therefore
applies and appeals to the court sitting in equity, having
peculiar and full power and jurisdiction in the premises by
virtue of the Constitution and laws of the United States;
and that all of said actings and doings of the defendant are
contrary to equity and good conscience, and tend to the manifest wrong, injury and oppression of the plaintiff.
The relief sought by the bill is a decree determining to
what class the property, ownership or possession of the
property specified contained in that § 18 applies, and establishing and defining the limit beyond which the defendant
has no power under said state legislation to authorize any
person or corporation to invade the plaintiff's exclusive rights
by laying pipes and drawing water from the Mississippi River
or other public waters; that it be also adjudged and decreed
that the rights conferred upon the plaintiff are those declared
in Hew Orleans Water ITorks Company v. Robert E. Riverm,
and in the case of The Niew Orleans Water Works Com2any v.
The St. Tammany, Water Works Company; that the plaintiff is
lawfully entitled to have for and during the period named in
said act of incorporation all of the exclusive rights and privileges named and set forth therein; that all the said acts, reso-

NREW ORLEANS WATER WORKS v. NEW ORLEANS.

479

Opinion of the Court.

lutions and grants sought to be made by the defendant to
persons or corporations, not being possessors or owners of
property not touching the banks of the Mississippi River
within the parish of Orleans, are null, void and of no effect;
that defendant be ordered, adjudged and decreed, within a
time certain, to be named in the decree, to recall, expunge,
repeal and cancel each and all of said alleged ordinances,
resolutions, grants or licenses so made by it, since the date
the plaintiff became invested with said exclusive rights, save
only such grants, permits, ordinances or resolutions as relate
to or are confined to property and prenlises contiguous to the
Mississippi River; and that in the event defendant shall
neglect or refuse in some public way to declare the same recalled, cancelled, annulled and avoided within a time specified
in such decree, the court will declare, adjudge and decree the
same, and each and all of them, to be absolutely null and void
and of no effect, and as conferring no rights or authority
whatsoever, nor lawful reason for the invasion of the plaintiff's said exclusive rights.
The plaintiff asked that a writ of injunction be issued, inhibiting and forbidding the city of New Orleans, its council,
officers, agents or departments, from granting or allowing to
any person, persons or corporation 'any further or other like
grants, licenses, privileges or warrants in any form, on the face
thereof assuming to grant unto any person, persons or corporation any right or privilege to lay or maintain any pipes, mains
or conduits fron the Mississippi River across, along or through
any public place or territory within the limits of New Orleans, where said premises are not contiguous to the Mississippi
River; also, that it be adjudged and decreed that in so far as
the matters were in issue and litigated in said cause of the
said New Orleans Water Works Company against the St.
Tammany Water Workcs Compan, the judgment and decree
therein determined the rights of the plaintiff, as between it
and the city of New Orleans, beyond further contention and
dispute, and that the defendant "be compelled to abide by,
observe and enforce the same"; and that such decree be carried into full force and effect by such proper order, judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

or decree therein as might be necessary to accomplish that
end and compel obedience to its provisions.
The Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to the bill, and dismissed the suit with costs to the city.
It appears from the bill of complaint- the facts therein
set forth being admitted by demurrer-that the city of New
Orleans has by ordinances granted to ; large number of corporatiofis, associations and individuals the privilege of laying
pipes in its streets for the purpose of convdying water to their
'respective premises from the Mississippi. These ordinances,
the plaintiff contends, are in derogation of its rights and privileges as heretofore *declared and adjudged by this court in
the 2ivers and St. Tammany cases. None of the parties for
whose benefit the ordinances above referred, to were passed
were brought before the court or given an opportunity to*be
heard. Nevertheless, the plaintiff seeks a decree not only declaring those ordinances to be null and void, but requiring the
city, within a named time, to recall, expunge, repeal and cancel each ordinance that does not relate to premises contiguous
to the Mississippi River, and if the city does not, within such
time, and in some public way, cancel and annul those ordinances, then that the court, in this suit, shall adjudge and
decree them to be null and void as illegally interfering with
the rights of the plaintiff.
We do not suppose that any precedent can be found that
would justify a court of equity in giving such relief. A
decree declaring the ordinances in question void would have
no effect in law upon the rights of the beneficiaries named in
the ordinances; for, in the absence of the parties interested
and without their having an opportunity to be heard, the
court would be without jurisdiction to make an adjudication
affecting them. Such a decree would appear, upon the very
face of the record, not to be due process of law, and could be
treated everywhere as a nullity. ]Vindsor v. Mc VTeigh, 93
U. S. 274, 277; .Pennoyrv. Hf 95 U. S. 714, 733; Scott v.
.McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, 46.
Ought the court to have proceeded to a decree, or held the
bill to be sufficient for relief, as between the plaintiff and the

NEW ORLEANS WATER WORKS v. NEW ORLEANS.

481

Opinion of the Court.

city? In effect, a decree is asked against the city reasserting,
for its guidance in the future, the principles announced in the
Rivers and St. Tammany cases, and informing it that, in passing the ordinances complained of, it had done violence to
those principles. But of what avail would such a decree be,
if the city council, the members of which are not before the
court, were left free to enact ordinances granting to other
parties, in violation of the plaintiff's rights, the privilege of
placing pipes in the streets of the city through which to convey water from the Mississippi River to their respective
premises? If it be said that a final decree against the city,
enjoining it from making such grants in the future, will control the future action of the citr council of New Orleans, and
will, therefore, tend to protect the plaintiff in its rights, our
answer is that a court of equity cannot properly interfere
with, or in advance restrain, the discretion of a municipal
body while it is in the exercise of powers that are legislative
in their character. It ought not to attempt to do indirectly
what it could not do directly. In view of the adjudged cases,
it cannot be doubted that the legislature may delegate to municipal assemblies the power of enacting ordinances that relate
to local matters, and that such ordinances, if legally enacted,
have the force of laws passed by the legislature of the State
and are to be respected by all. But the courts will pass. the
line that separates judicial from legislative authority if by any
order or in any mode they assume to control the discretion
with which municipal assemblies are invested, when deliberating upon the adoption or rejection of ordinances proposed for
their adoption. The passage of ordinances by such bodies
are legislative acts which a court of equity will not enjoin.
Chicago v. .Evans, 24: Illinois, 52, 57; Des -foines Gas Co. v.
-Des.Moines,44 Iowa, 505; 1 Dillon on Mun. Corp. § 308, and
notes; 2 High on Injunctions, § 1246. If an ordinance be
passed and is invalid, the jurisdiction of the courts may then
be invoked for the protection of private rights that may be
violated by its enforcement. Page's case, 34: Maryland, 558,
564; Baltimore v. Radeceke, 49 Maryland, 217, 231.
As no decree can be properly rendered th'at will affect the
VOL. CLXIV-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

rights of the beneficiaries named in the ordinances enacted
before this suit was commenced- such beneficiaries not being
before the court-a court of equity ought not, by any form
of proceeding, to interfere with the course of proceedings in
the city council of New Orleans, and enjoin that branch of its
municipal government from hereafter passing ordinances similar to those heretofore enacted and which are alleged to be
obnoxious to the plaintiff's rights. The mischievous consequences that may result from the attempt of courts of equity
to control the proceedings of municipal bodies when engaged
in the consideration of matters entirely legislative in their
character, are too apparent to permit such judicial action as
this suit contemplates. We repeat that when the city council
shall pass an ordinance that infringes the rights of the plaintiff, and is unconstituzional and void as impairing the obligation of its contract with the State, it will be time enough for
equity to interfere, and by injunction prevent the execution of
such *ordinance. If the ordinances already passed- are in derogation of the plaintiff's contract rights, their enforcement can
be prevented by appropriate proceedings instituted directly
against the parties who seek to have the benefit of them.
This may involve the plaintiff in a multiplicity of actions.
But that circumstance cannot justify any such decree as it
asks.
Upon the grounds we have indicated, and without considering the merits of the case, the decree below must be
Affirmed.

