OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

company did not, at the trial, pretend that the amount of the
benefits received by reason of the betterments did not reach
the amount of the plaintiff's claim-indeed, the receiver's
testimony showed that the betterments amounted to several
hundred thousands of dollars - but the company claimed then,
as they do now, that the plaintiff's only remedy was in equity.
It is obvious that the only right or advantage that would
accrue to the railroad company, if the plaintiff was compelled
to resort to an equitable proceeding, would be the opportunity
to show that the betterments received were less than the
amount of the claim. The conduct of the railroad company
in procuring, or, at least, in acquiescing in the withdrawal of

the receivership, and in the discharge of the receiver and the
cancellation of his bond, and in accepting the restoration of
its road, largely increased in value by the betterments, well
affords ground to charge an assumption of such valid claims
against the receiver as were not satisfied by him or by the
court which discharged him. The company might, even in
such circumstances, have a right to show that the claims
exceeded the amount of the betterments, and have the aid of
a court of equity to restrict its liability to that amount. But,
as we have seen, it is not pretended that there is any such
equity in the present qase.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affljrmed.

MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 536. Submitted December 15, IS96. -Decided

Janutry 4, 189T.

On the trial of a person accused of rape, the court, in charging the jury,
said: "The fact is that all the force that need be exercised, If there Is
no consent, is the force incident to the commission of the act. If there
is non-consent of the woman, the force, I say, incident to the commis-

MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
sion of the crime is all the force that is required.to make out this element of the crime." Held, that this charge covered the case where no
threats were made; where no active resistance was overcome; where the
woman was not unconscious; where there was simply non-consent on
her part and no real resistance; and that such non-consent was not
enough to constitute the crime of rape.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

No appearance for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. A88i8tant Attorney General Dikin8on for defendants
inerror.
M

.JUSTICE PEoxH& delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was indicted in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas at the November term, 1895, for the crime of rape committed at the
Cherokee Nation, in the Indian country, within the Western
District of Arkansas, upon one Florence Hendrix, a white
woman and not an Indian, and not a member of any Indian
tribe. He was duly arraigned and pleaded not guilty, and
was tried upon the indictment at the February term of the
District Court in 1896, was found guilty as charged in the indictment, and sentenced to be hanged on the 23d day of June,
1896. A writ of error having been allowed, the record has
been removed to this court for review.
Upon the trial the government gave evidence tending to
show that on the night of December 7,1894, James P. Hendrix, the husband of the prosecuitrix, occupied a home with her
and their four young children in the Indian Territory, about
two miles southwest of a place called Foyle. A man named
Maxwell was also at the house that night. They lived off the
public road about a quarter of a mile. About eight o'clock
that night, while the moon was shining, the defendant rode
up to the house and asked his way to Kepthart's. He said he
was lost and asked the husband, Hendrix, if he would please
come to the door and put him in the right direction. When
the witness opened the door the defendant "put his gun on

OCTOBER TERAI,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

him," and told witness to come out. The prosecutrix said
"No; you are not going out," to which the defendant answered, with an oath, "Yes; he is." The husband had on
his night clothes, only drawers and shirt, and was barefooted.
The defendant, he says, threatened to kill him, and told him
to walk along down the road; saying, "My -name is Henry
Starr," who was a notorious train robber. The husband was
then sent down the road by the defendant under threats to
kill him if he did not go, and after he went the defendant
took the woman, the prosecutrix, and, as she alleged, by
threats compelled her to have connection with him twice.
Upon the cross-examination of the prosecutrix it appeared
that she was, at the time of the trial, about 25 years old, and
that she had been married 9 years. She was married at Mt.
Vernon, in Missouri, and from that time had lived a wandering life with her husband, moving, as she said, "So often I
could not tell you just exactly where." Her .testimony in regard to the commission of the offence after the husband had
moved down the road was given in great detail, which it is not
necessary to here set forth.
As the verdict of the jury is conclusive upon the merits of
the case it becomes of the highest importance that upon an
issue of this kind, maintained by evidence such as this record
presents, the court should charge the jury with accuracy regarding the ingredients of the crime and the facts necessary
to be proved in order to show the guilt of the defendant. No
portion of the charge of the court, under such circumstances,
can'be said to be'harmless if it did not state correctly and fully
the law applicable to the crime, even although it may be urged
that in other portions of the charge the correct rule was laid
down.
The crime itself is one of the most detestable and abominable that can be committed, yet a charge of that nature is
also one which all judges have recognized as easy to be made
and hard to be defended against; and it has been said that
very great caution is requisite upon all trials for this crime,
in order that the natural indignation of men which is aroused
against the perpetrator of such an outrage upon a defenceless

MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

woman may not be misdirected, and the mere charge taken
for proper proof of the crime on the part of the person on
trial. The defendant in this case denied even .being present
upon the occasion in question. The credibility of the prosecutrix was put in issue by her appearing on the stand as a
witness, and althodigh the jury might have disbelieved the
evidence of the defendant, when he said that he was not
there at all, yet they were under no legal necessity to believe
in full the account given by the prosecutrix. Assuming the
presence of the defendant, the jury had the right to believe
all the testimony of the prosecutrix or only part of it; that
is, they might have believed her testimony as to the fact of
the connection between the defendant and herself, but were
not bound to believe that it was against her consent and by
the use of force overwhelming in its nature and beyond her
power to resist, or by virtue of such threats against her life or
safety as to overcome her will. Whether such threats were
made or whether in their absence she resisted to the extent
of her ability at the time and under the circumstances, was
a question for the jury. The prosecutrix gave upon crossexamination a minute and extended account of the manner in
which the crime was.committed and of the circumstances surrounding its commission. How much of this testimony was
credible and what inferences ought to be drawn from it all,
were matters for the sole consideration of the jury.
With evidence such as has been outlined, the court in charging the jury said: "The fact is that all the force that need
be exercised, if there is no consent, is the force incident to the
commission of the act. If there is non-consent of the woman,
the force, I say, incident to the commission of the crime is
all the force that is required to make out this element of the
crime." An exception was taken to the definition of the crime
as given by the court.
In this charge we think the court did not explain fully
enough so as to be understood by the jury what constitutes
in law non-consent on the part of the woman, and what is
the force, necessary in all cases of non-consent, to constitute
this crime. He merely stated that if the woman did not give

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
-

Opinion of the Court.

consent the only force necessary to constitute the crime in
that case was that which was incident to the commission of
the act itself. That is true in a case where the woman's will
or her resistance bad been overcome by threats or fright, or she
had become helpless or unconscious, so that while not consenting she still did iot resist. But the charge in question covered
much more extensive ground. It covered the case where no
threats were made; where no active resistance was overcome;
where the woman was not unconscious, but where there was
simply non-consent on her part and no real resistance whatever. Such non-consent as that is no more than a mere lack
of acquiescence, and is not enough to constitute the crime of
rape. Taking all the evidence in the case, the jury might
have inferred just -that amount of non-consent in this case.
Not that they were bound to do so, but the questi6n was one
for them -to decide. The mere non-consent of .a female to
intercourse where she is in possession of her natural, mental
and physical powers, is not overcome by numbers or terrified
by threats, or in such place and position. that resistance would
be useless, does not constitute the crime of rape on the part
of the man who has connection with her under such circumstances. More force is necessary when that is the character
of non-consent than was stated by the court to be necessary
to make out that element of the crime. That kind of nonconsent is .not enough, nor is the force spbken of then sufficient, which is only incidental to the act itself.
Bishop in his treatise on Criminal Law says that the proposition-as to the element of consent, deducible from the authorities, ig that although the crime is completed when the
connection takes place without the consent of the female,
yet in the ordinary case where the woman is awake, of maturn years, of sound mind and not in fear, a failure to Ocpoe
the carnal act is consent; and though she object verbally,
if she make no outcry and no resistance, she by her conduct
consents, and the act is not rape in the man. 2 Bishop Crim.
Law, ยง 1122. This is consistent, we think, with most of the
authorities on the subject. See People v. Doh "ing, 59 N. Y.
374, and cases there cited. In the New York case it was

MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

held, after an examination and review of the cases, that if
the woman at the time was conscious, had the possession of
her natural, mental and physical powers, was not overcome
by numbers or terrified by threats, or in such place and position that resistance would have been useless, it must also be
made to appear that she did resist to the extent of her ability
at the time and under the circumstances.
So where the court stated, that if there was no consent of
the woman, the force incident to the commission of the act
itself is all that is required to make out this element of the
crime, the court should have included in that statement of
the law the kind of non-consent which the law declares is
necessary should exist. In the cases mentioned above mere
non-consent was not enough nor was the force spoken of
sufficient. Although it may be claimed that other portions of
the charge of the learned court stated correctly the law with
reference to this particular case, yet we cannot escape the
fear that the error above pointed out may have found lodg'ment in the minds of the jury. Where the evidence of the
commission of the crime itself irhpresses us as being somewhat unsatisfactory, and in a case where the life of the
defendant is at stake, we feel that it is impossible to permit
him to be executed in consequence of a conviction by a jury
under a charge of the court which, we think, in some of its
features was clearly erroneous in law, because not full enough
on the subject herein discussed, even though in shome parts of
the charge a more full and correct statement of the law was
given. Which of the two statements was received and acted
upon by the jury it is wholly impossible for this court to determine, and as one of them was erroneous in not more fully
and definitely stating what was the character of the non-consent which rendered the mere amount of force incident to the
performance of the act itself sufficient to constitute the crime,
the judgment of death must be reversed, and the lefendant
subjected to another trial where the rules of law applicable
to the case shall be correctly and fully stated to the jury.
The judgment is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded
with in8trution8 to grant a new trial.

