694

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

citizenship. Colorado CentralMining Co. v. Turek, 150 U. S.
138; Borgmeier v. Idler, 159 U. S. 408.
The petition for mandamus must be
Denied.

CARVER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 588. Submitted December 15,189.-Decided January 4, 189T.

In a trial for murder, if the declarations of the- deceased are offered, the
fact that she had received extreme unction has a tendency to show that
she must have known that she was in articulomortis, and it is no error
to admit evidence of it.
Where the whole or a part of a conversation has been put in evidence by
the government on the trial of a person accused of the commission of
crime, the other party is entitled to explain, vary or contradict it.
When the dying declarations of the deceased are admitted on the trial of a
person accused of the crime of murder, statements made by the deceased
in apparent contradiction to those declarations are admissible.

THIS was a writ of error to review the conviction of the
plaintiff in error for the murder of one Anna Maledon at
Muskogee, in the Creek Nati6n of the Indian Territory. The
conviction was a second one for the same offence, the first
having been set aside by this court upon the ground that
improper evidence had been received of an alleged dying
declaration. 160 U. S. 553.
The 'evidence tended to show that Carver, a man about
twenty-five years of age, was grossly intemperate in his habits,
and upon the day the homicide took place had been drinking
a mixture of hard cider and Jamaica ginger, and was so intoxicated that he could hardly walk; that deceased, who had
been his mistress for several years, had agreed to meet him in
the evening at a certain mill'crossing in Muskogee. .They met
at about half-past eight, when he soon began to threaten her
that he would, before daylight, kill her and one Walker, o

CARVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

whom he appeared to have been jealous. He was armed with
a revolver and his conduct indicated that he was crazed with

liquor. During his walk with the deceased, he met a man
whom he drove off at the point of his pistol, and amused himself by firing it off at a lot of cattle, which were within range.
Meeting one Crittenden, the deceased, believing that Carver
was unfit to care for her and accompany her, asked Crittenden, with whom she was acquainted, to take her home. Crittenden started with them, when Carver got out his pistol
again, flourished it about and fired it off twice, once in the air
and once in the ground. After walking some fifty yards or
more Carver again took out his pistol, flourished it around,
and, either intentionally or accidentally, shot deceased in the
back and mortally wounded her.
Mi. William M. Cravens and Mr. J. Warren Reed for plaintiff in error.
Mr. As8istant Attorney General Dickinson for defendants
in error.
MR. JusTicz BRowx, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. Defendant's fourth and fifth assignments of error were
taken to the action of the court in permitting the district
attorney to prove that a Catholic priest was summoned for
Anna Maledon; "that she took the sacrament after she was
shot," and that he "performed the last rites of the Catholic
church in her behalf." We see no objection to this testimony,
and think-it was within the discretion of the court to admit
it Alexander v. United States, 138 U. S. 353, 357. Dying
declarations are an exception to the general rule that only
sworn testimony can be received, the fear of impending death
being assumed to be as powerful an incentive to truth as the
obligation of an oath. The fact that the deceased had received extreme unction had some tendency to show that she
must have known that she was in articulo mortis, and if the

OCTOBER TERMA,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

jury were of opinion that the fact that she received it lent an
additional sanctity to her statement, it was no error to admit
evidence of it. If not, it could do the defendant no harm. It
was one of the facts, showing the circumstances under which
the'declaration was made, that the government was entitled
to lay before the jury. In Regina v. Howell, I Den. C. C. 1,
the deceased had received a gunshot wound, and repeatedly
expressed his conviction that he was mortally wounded. Evidence that he was a Roman Catholic, and that an offer was
made to fetch a priest, which he declined, appears to have
been received without objection, as tending to show that he
did not think his end was approaching; but his declaration
was held to have been properly received. In .kinton'8 case,
cited by counsel in Howell's case, the fact of a person having
received extreme unction was considered evidence that she
thought herself in a dying state.
2. The sixth assignment of error was"taken to the refusal of
the court to permit the defendant to prove by Mary Belstead
and Mary Murray the declarations of defendant, and what he
said to deceased, and what she said to him, at the place of the
fatal shot, immediately after the shot was fired, for the reason
that the same was part of the Pes gestw, and was also a part of
the conversation given in evidence by the government witnesses.
We fail to understand the theory upon which this testimony
was excluded. Rays and Brann, two witnesses for the government, had testified that they had heard the shots fired and the
scream of a woman; that Brann started for the place, and met
defendant running away; that defendant went back toward
the woman, and then returned again, when Braun caught him
and took him back to the woman, about thirty yards. About
this time Hays came up, and both testified as to the conversation or exclamations that were made, between deceased and
the defendant. Defendant's two witnesses, Belstead and Murray, appear to have come up about the same time, and whether
the conversation that took place between defendant and deceased at that time was part of the res geslat or not, it is evident that it was practically the same conversation to which
the government's witnesses had testified. If it were compe-

CARVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tent for one party to prove this conversation, it was equally
competent for the other party to prove their version of it. It
may not have differed essentially from the government's version, and, it may be, that defendant was not prejudiced by the
conversation as actually proved, but where the whole or a part
of a conversation has been put in evidence by one party, the
other party is entitled to explain, vary or contradict it.
3. There was also error in refusing to permit the defendant
to prove by certain witnesses that the deceased, Anna Maledon,
made statements to them in apparent contradiction to her dying
declaration, and tending to show that defendant did not shoot
her intentionally. Whether these statements were admissible
as dying declarations or not is immaterial, since we think they
were admissible as tending to impeach the declaration of the
deceased, which had already been admitted. A dying declaration by no means imports absolute verity. The history of
criminal trials is replete with instances where witnesses, even
in the agonies of death, have through malice, misapprehension
or weakness of mind made declarations that were inconsistent
with the actual facts; and it would be a great hardship to the
defendant, who is deprived of the benefit of a cross-examination, to hold that he could not explain them. Dying declarations are a marked exception to the general rule that hearsay
testimony is not admissible, and are received from the necessities of the case and to prevent an entire failure of justice, as
it frequently happens that no other witnesses to the homicide
are present. They may, however, be inadmissible by reason
of the extreme youth of the declarant, Rex v. Pike, 3 0. & P.
598, or by reason of any other fact which would make him
incompetent as an ordinary witness. They are only received
when the court is satisfied that the witness was fully aware of
the fact that his recovery was impossible, and in this particular
the requirement of the law is very stringent. They may be
contradicted in the same manner as other testimony, and may
be discredited by proof that the character of the deceased
was bad, or that he did not believe in a future state of rewards or punishment. State v. Elliott, 45 Iowa, 486; Cornmonwealh v. Cooper, 5 Allen, 495; Goodall v. State, 1 Oregon,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

333; T acy v. People, 97 Illinois, 101; Hill v. State, 64 Mississippi, 431.
It is true, that in respect to other witnesses, a foundation
must-be laid for evidence of contradictory statements by asking the witness whether he has made such statements, and we
have held that where the testimony of a deceased witness,
given upon a former trial, was put in evidence, that proof of
the death of such witness, subsequent to his former examination, will not dispense with this necessity. Atattox v. United
States, 156 U. S. 237. That case, however, was put upon the
ground that the witness had once been examined and crossexamined upon a former trial. We are not inclined to extend
it to the case of a dying declaration, where the defendant has
no opportunity by cross-examination to show that by reason
of mental or physical weakness, or actual hostility felt toward
him, the deceased may have been mistaken. Considering the
friendly relations which had existed between the defendant
and the deceased for a number of years, their apparent attachment for each other, and the alcoholic frenzy under which
defendant was apparently laboring at the time, the shooting
may possibly not have been with deliberate intent to take the
life of the deceased, notwithstanding the threats made by the
defendant earlier in the evening. In nearly all the cases in
which the question has arisen evidence of other statements by
the deceased inconsistent with his dying declarations has been
received. Peaple v. Lawrence, 21 California, 368 (an opinion
by Chief Justice Field, now of this court); State v. Blackturn,
80 N. C. 4:74; McPherson v. State, 9 Yerg. 279; Hurd v. People, 25 Michigan, 405 ; Battle v. State, 74 Georgia, 101 ; .Felder
v. State, 23 Tex. App. 477; Moore v. State, 12 Alabama, 764.
Our attention has been called to but one case to the contrary, viz., llrroe v. State, 20 Ohio St. 460, cited with apparent
approval in the Mattox case. But we think, as applied to
dying declarations, it is contrary to the weight of authority.
As these declarations are necessarily ex parte, we think the
defendant is entitled to the benefit of any advantage he may
have lost by the want of an opportunity for cross-examination.
Rex v. Ashton, 2 Lewin C. C. 147.

CARVER v. UNITED STATES.

699

Opinion of the Court.

The disposition we have made of these assignments renders
it unnecessary to consider the others. The judgment of the
court must be
Reversed, the conviction set aside, and a new tial ordered.
AIR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAm concurred
in reversing upon the sixth assignment only.

