SUPREME COURT.

40

Ennis ot al. v. Smith et al.

JOHN

F.

ENNIS, ADMINISTRATOR DE 3ONIS NON OF JOSEPH ZOL-

KOWSKI AND OTHERS, V. J. 11. B. SMITH, ADMINISTRATOR OF
GEORGE BOmFoRD, LEWIS JOHNSON, ADy:INISTRATOR DE BONIS
NON OF THADDEUS KOSCIUSKO, JAMES CARRICO, SAMUEL STOTT,
GEORGE C. BomiFoRD, JAC6IB GIDEON, ULYSSES WARD, ANV
JONATHAN B. H. SMITH.
Origin of the fund in controversy.
Mr. Jefferson's letter concerning it.
General Kosciusko made four wills. One in the United States, in 1798; another
in Paris, in 1806; the third and fourth were made at S&leare, in Switzerland, whilst
lie was sojourning there in 1816 and 1817.
The first and second wills were revoked by the third, and he died intestate as to his
estate in the United States.
But the first will, before it was known that he had made the others, was probated by
Mr. Jefferson, in Virginia, and when Mr. Jefferson leuxned that the General had
made other wills, he transferred the fund to the -Orphans' Court of the District of
Columbia. The Orphans' Court managed the fund for some time, and then Benjamin L. Lear was appointed the administrator of Kosciusko, with the will annexed.
He died, leaving a will, and George Bomford one of his executors. Bomford
qualified as 'such, and afterwards became the administrator of Kosciusko de bonis
on. He took into his possessiofi, as executor, the estate of Lear, and also the
funds of Kosciusko. which had been administered by Lear, and first made his return to the Orphans' Court of the administered funds of Kosciusko, as executor of
Lear. Afterwards the were returned by him to the Orphans' Court, as administrator de ots non of Kosciusko. The Orphans' Court 4eeming that his sureties
as administrator de bonis non of Kosciusko, were insufficient, or that they were not
liable for any waste of them, on account of the funds having been received by him
as executor of Lear, and not as administrator de 6onis non, called upon him for
other sureties, under the act of Congress of the 20th February, 1846. , He complied
with the call, and gave as sureties, Stott, Carrico, an-I George C. Bomford, and
Gideon,Ward and Smith.
The original bonds of Bomford were given to the Orphans' Court, under the law of
Marylland, which prevailed without alteration in that part of the District of Columbia which had been ceded by Maryland, until Congress passed the act of the 20th
February, 1846. The defendant Stott, Carrico, and Gecrge C. Bomford, and Smith,
Ward, and Gideon, became the sureties of Bomford, as administrator de onis 'non
of Kosciusko, under the act of 20th February, 1846.
In the State of Maryland, if an executor or administrator changes any part of an
estate from what it was into something else, it is said to be administered. If an
administrator d bonis non, possesses himself of such changed estate, of whatever kinhd
it may be, and charges himself with it as assets, his sureties to his original bond,
as administrator de bons non, are not liable for his waste of them. They are only
-liable for such assets of the deceased as remain in specie, unadministered by his
predecessor, in the administration. Such is the law of Maryland, applicable to
the sureties of Bomford, in the bond given when he was appointed administrator
de bonis non of Kosciusko.
But when other sureties.are called for by the Orphans' Court under the third section
of the act of February 20, 1846, and are given, they do not bear the same relation
to the administrator that his original sureties did, and they will be bound for the
waste of their principal to the amount of the estate, or funds which he has charged
himself by his return to the Orphans' Court, as adminstrator de bonis non, when it
called for additional sureties, and for such as the administrator may afterwards
receive.
The bonds taken by the Orphans' Court ia this case, were properly taken under the
act of the 20th February, 1846.
General Kosciuskb's Olographic will of 181b, dontains a revoking clause of all other
wills previously made by him, and not having disposei of his American funds in
that will, nor in the will of 1817, he died'intestate as to -uch funds. The second

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

401

Ennis et &l. v. Smith et al.
article in the will of 1817, "Je 1dgue tons mes effets, ma voiture, et mon cheval y
comprise h Madame et k Monsieur ZavierZeltner, ls homme ce dessus," -record,
105 -is not a residuary bequest to them of the' rest of his estate, not specifically
disposed of in the wills of 1816 and 1817.
General Kosciasko was sojourning in Switzesland when he died, but was domiciled in
France, and had been for fifteen years.
His declarations are to be received as proof that his domicil was in France. Such
declarations have always been received, in questions of domicil, in the courts of
France, in those of England, and in the courts of the United States.
The presumption of la* is, that the domicil of origin is retained, until residence elsewhere has been shown by him who alleges a change of it. -But residence elsewhere
repels the presumption, and casts upon him who denies it to be a doliaicil of choice,
the burden of disproving it. The place of residence must be taken to be a domicil of choice, unless It is proved that it was not meant to be a principal and perma-"
nent residence. Contingent events, political or otherwise, are not admissible
proofs to show, where one removes from his domicil of origin, for a residence elsewhere, that the latter was not meant to be a principal and permanent residence.
But if one is exiled by authority from his domicil of origin, it is never presumed
that he has abandned all hope of returning back. The.abalidonment, however,
ma be shown by proof. General Kosciusko was not exiled by authority. He left
Poland voluntarily, to obtain a civil status in France, which he conscientiously
thought he could not enjoy in Poland, whilst it continued under a foreign
dominion.
Personal property, wherever it may be, is to be disturbed in case of intestacy, according to the law of the domicil of the intestate. This rule may be said to be a
part oF the jus gentium.
Wbat that law is when a foreign law applies, must be shown by proof of it, and in
the case of written law, it will be suffcient to offer, as evidence, the official publication of the law, certified satisfactorily to be such. Unwritten foreign laws, must be
proved by experts. There is no general rule for authenticating foreigs laws in the
courts of other countries, except this, that no proof shall be received, "whieji presupposes better testimony behind, and attainable by the party." They ma, be
verified by an oath, orby ait exemplification of a copy under the great seal of the
State or nation whose law ift may be, or by a copy proved to be a true copy, by a
witness who has examined and compared it with the original, or by the certificate
of an officer authorized to. give the law, which certificate must be duly proved.
Such modes of proof are not exclusive of others, especially of codes and accepted
histories of the law of a country. See also the cases of Church v. Hubbart, in 2
Cranch 181, and Talbot v. Seeman, in I Cranch, 7. In this case, the Code Civil
of -rance, with'this indorsement, "Les Garde des ceaux de France a la Cceur
Supiemo Des Etats Unis," was offered as evidence to prove that the law of France
was for the distribution of the funds in controversy. This court ruled that such
indorsement was a sufficient authentication, to make the code evidence in this ease,
and in any other case in which it may be 6ffered. By that code, the complainants
named in this suit a3 the collateral relations of General Kosciusko, are entitled to
receive the funds in controversy, in such proportions as are stated in tht. niandate or
this court to ihe court below.
The documentary proofs in this cause, from the Orphans' Court, of the genealogy of
the Kosciusko family, and of the collateral relationship of the persons entitled to
a decree, and also of the wills of Kosciusko, are properly in evidence in this suit.
The record from Grodno is judicial;. not a judgment inter partes,but a foreign judgment in rem, which is evidence of the facts adjudicated against all the world.

Mr. Justice Cat, -7r did not sit in this cause.
THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District-of Columbia, holden in and for the county

of Washington, sitting as a Court of Equity.
The whole case is set forth in the opinion of the court.
34 '

402

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

The appellants were those who filed the bill -in the Circuit
Court, which was dismissed by that court.
It was argued by Mr. TochYman and .r. Johnson, for the appellants, and by Mr. Bedin, MVhr. Marhury,and Mr. Coxe, for the
appellees.
The points raised by the counsel for the appellants, were the
following:
I. Was Kosciusko's domicil, at the time of hi5 death, in
France, as the appellants charge, or was it in Poland, as the appellees mainvain?
It could not be in Poland, since Kosciusko left it, because of
its subjugation by the foreign powers, in 1.794. Vattel's Law
of Nations, Book I. chap. 16, § 195.
It was in France, by his own choice, since 1806 until 4th of
June, 1816. (Wills of 1806 and 1816, Ana conclusions resulting
from the admission of the appellees.) Story's Confl. of Laws,
§ 44-46, § 8-47, § 14.
It continued to be in France until his death, upon the principle of law laid down in 1 Starkie on Evid. (Philad. ed. of 1842,
p. 53, " Presumption as to Continuance.") 1 American Leading
Cases, by Hare & Wallace, p. 710, § 3, and the authorities therein
referred to; Story's Confl. of Laws, § 47, § 16
II. Has the will of 1816 been proved? Have the letters of
administration de bonis non to Lewis Johnson been issued with
the wills of 1798, 1806, and 1816, as alleged in the bill ? Does
the will of 1816 revoke the wills of 1798 and 1806 ? Is the
residue of Kosciusko's property liable for the legacies stated in
the wills of 1816 and 1817?
The original will of 1816 was proved, recorded, and is lodged
for safe keeping in France, and its authenticated exemplification with the French probate was proved and recorded in the
Orphans' Court for the District of Columbia, pursuant to the
rules laid down in Toller on Evil. p. 71. Van Rensselear v.
Morris, 1 Paige's Rep. 13; Story's Confl. of Laws, notes to
§ 514 b, on p. 432 of the 2d ed.; Statute of Maryland of 1785,
chap. 46, § 2; De Sobre v. De Laistre, 2 Har. & Johns. 191.
The letters of administration de bonis non to Lewis Johnson
were issued with ti 1 will and other two, as charged in the bill,
proved by the decretal of the Orphans' Court, and the deposition of the record of the wills.
The court below had, and this court has now, the power of
deciding what effect each of these three wills of .Kosciusko
should have upon the final disposition of the property sought to
be recovered. 1 Jarman on Wills, 4,22, 23, &c.

DECEMBER.TERM, 1852.

'403

E nnis et al. v.'Smith etal.

For this purpose the law of the domicil of Kosciusko at the
time of his death must be resorted to. Jarman on Wills, 3, 4;
Story's ConfL of Laws, § 465, 467,468, 479 f, 479 m.
The will of 1798 cannot take effect, because of-the uncertainty of its dispositions and objects of the bounty; the wvl
of 1806 is null and void, not being executed according to either
of the forms prescribed by the laws of France for making
wills; but, good or bad, they have been both revoked by the
will of 1816.
The will of 1816, containipg the revoking clause of former
wills, is a good and valid. olographic will,.proved by the depositions on p. 15 and 16 of the record. Arts. 970, 999, 1001, of the
Civil Code of Napoleon.
Parol evidence, referred to in the answers, has not been produced; but, if it were produced, it could not be received, to
impeach the will of 1816, nor to prove its revocation. Civil
Code of Napoleon, Arts. 1035, 1036; 12 Wheaton's Rep. 175;
Toiler on Exec. 76; 1 Madd. Ch. Pr. 81, 552, 555; 2 Starkie on
Evid. Part I. Phil. ed. of 1842, 756, and Part IL p. 1284, note a;
1 Greenleaf on Evid. § 273, 290.
The word "effets," used-in the 2d clause of the will of -1817,
being restrained by the words" ma voiture et mon cheval y comprise," passes only property of "ejusdem generis," and nothing
else. 1 Jarman on Wills, 692 f; 13 Yes. 36, 45.
Independent of this, the French word "effets" signifies only
such property as is about the person. Dictionaire Francais et
Anglais, par les Profhsseur Fleming et Tibbins; Dictionaire de
l'Academie Francaise.
Admitted, that for the legacies specified in the will of 1816,
the property sought to be recovered, and every other property
of Kosciusko, would be liable- but all these legacies had been
paid.
The legacies made by the will of 1817 being legacies of specific funds, which were, invested in Switzerland and in England,
and of such specific property which was left in t6e house where
Kosciusko diee, in Switzerland, none of them can charge any
other property; but whatever may be the law in this respect,
the proof is that these legacies have also been paid.
The accidental omission, in the proceedings, of Mr. and Mrs.
Zavier Zeltner, legatees under the will of 1817, is immaterial:
first, because they take only such property in kind as comes
within the definition of the word "effets," restrained by the
words "1ma voiture et Mon
chval y comprise," and should claim
it from those persons in Switzerland in whose possession these
" effets" were left; secofidly, because, by the law of France,
apon the death of the testator or intestate, the property vests in

404

SUPREME COIURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

the lawful heirs, who stand iZ loeo of legal representatives of
the deceased at common law. Civil Code of Napoleon, Alt.
724; Story's Conft. of Laws, § 507, 508, 516.
It follows, from the above iule, that when the lawful heirs of
Kosciusko recover the property which is not wanted here by local
administrator, all claimants residing in Europe, whether they
are legatees or treditors,will have a right to establish there their
claims. It would be immaterial, then, were all the claimants
residing in Europe omitted in these proceedings, as no decree
pro confesso taken here will bar their claims there. Civil Code
of Napoleon, Arts. 724, 870, 873, 1011,1025, 1026.
Admitting, for the sake of argument, t;he existence of such
European claims, this is no defence; the appellees in such a
case should bring money into court-show good reasons of
their apprehension for safety, and pray that the appellants may
interplead their right with other claimants. 2 Story's Com. on
Eq. § 805, 809, &c.; Mitf. Eq. Plead. by Jeremy, p. 48, 49.
IIl. Have the appellants proved that Kosciusko died unmarried and without issue, and that they are 'his next of kin,
entitled to the residue of undisposed of property ? "In civil
cases, slight evidences of right or title are sufficient - as against
a stranger who possesses no color of title." 1 Starkie on Evid.
Phil. ed. of 1842, p. 544. In case of Fol]ger's Lessee v. Simpson, (1 Yeates's Rep. 17,) ex parte affidavit, made in England,
was held to be suffic_:ent evidence of pedigree against strangers.
Kingston v. Lesley, 10 Sergeant & Rawle's Rep. 383. The
appellees are all strangers, having no color of title to the estate
of Kosciusko. The appellants, to establish their title thereto,
produce a decree of the nobility of the Government of Grodno,
and a decree of the Court of Kobryn, in the province of Lithuania, formerly Poland, now a part of th3 Empire of Russia,
which were proved as to their authenticity, and as to the competency of the tribunals wvhich passed them; first, in the
Orphans' Court for the District of Columbia, in the course of
legalproceedings against Bomford, deceased administrator, and
subsequently, by depositions-taken under i;he commission in the
case.

The originals of these foreign decrees, -rvitten in the Russian
language, are on file in the, court below. Their translations
will be found on p. 73, Exhibit A, and on p. 80, Exhibit B. These
translations are judicial -they were made uAder oath, taken in
open court. The originals, written in the Russian language, are.
not in the record, from reasons stated in the answer of the clerk
of the court below.
The authenticity.of these documents has been established by
the testimony that the seal of the Assembly of the Nobility on

.DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Ennis ot al. v. Smith et al.

the decree of pedigree, (marked A, on p. 73,) and the seal of
the Court of Kobryn in the decree (marked B, on p. 80,) are
genuine seals, which alone is sufficient, underthe principles laid
down in 6 Wendell's Rep. 484; 1 Paine's Rep. 614; Norris's
Peake's Evid. 58, conjointly with 60, 108, and 109; 3 East's
Rep. 222; Act of Maryland, of 1785, ch. 46, § 6.
Though the foregoing authorities do not require that the signature be proved, to establish the authexAticily of a decree or
judginent-the appellants proved two of the signatures on the
decree of pedigree, marked A, on p. 80, by the deposition which, upon the principle laid down in Gresley's Eq. Evid. p. 120,
and the authorities therein referred to, would be sufficient,
were it deemed necessary to prove the signatures.
The seals and signatures not proved, (which are appencec to
the certificates, purporting to attest the signatures and seals of
the Assembly of the Nobility of Qrodno, and of the Court of
Kobryn,) are useless appendages, the law not admitting such
certificates as evidence. 13 Peters's R. 209; 2 Cranch's R. 187.
The competency of the jurisdiction of the Assembly of the
Nobility of Grodno, and of the Court of Kobryn, in matters
decided upon by the exhibited decrees of pedigree, &c., is proved
by the depositions of witnesses skilled in law, which depositions
prove also that the decree of the Assembly of the Nobility,
marked A, on p. 73, falls within the scope of such as are called
in reia, and bind everybody.
Depositions taken in the Orphans' Court are evidence in this
case, upon the principle laid down in 1 Starlde on Evid. Phil.
ed. of 1842, p. 315 -the more so when they were brought before
the court below, through the'medium of a commission taken in
the case.
Independent of this witness, Judge Kalussowski was reexamined under the comission, and an6ther witness, Tysowski
was examined under it.
The decrees, marked A and B, are as conclusive evidence to
prove pedigree in this country, as they are in the country from
which they come, upon principles laid down in 1 Starkie on
Evid. Phil. ed. of 18-42, p. 253, "Judgments in rem."' Id. p. 30,
"RReputation, in what cases evidence." 2 Starlde on Evid. id.
ed. part 1, p. 842; 1 Id. 275; Norris's Peake's Evid. 101, 104-6;
1 Starkie on Evid. id. ed. 285-6, 295-6; 1 Greenleaf on Evid.
§§ 525, 543; Story's Confi. of Laws, § 593.
The objection that the decree of pedigree, marked A, was obtained upon ex parte proceedings, &c., cannot be sustained, when
-it is proved that it was obtained upon such proceedings as the
law of the country from which it comes prescribes, (depositions
on pp. 85, 69, 70, of the record.) 4 Paters's R. 472, 475; Story's

406

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis- et al. v. Smith et a.

Confl. of Laws, §§ 605, 608; Peake's Evid. 101, 104-.106; 1
Greenleaf on Evid. § 547.
The city of Grodno is the capital, and the seat of the golernment of the Pr('vince of Lithuania, which is called Government of Grodno-just as is called the government of the United
States, "Government of W~shington." Encyc. Brit. vol. 10, p. 799;
Cycl. of Soc. for Diff. of Usefiil Knowledge, vol. 11, p. 4 5 5 . Hence
comes the incongruity of the testimony, in calling the official
seal of -the nobility of Grodno "the Government of Grodho's
official seal " "a Government seal of Lithuania." But that
both these expressions'mean to speak of the.seal of the nobility
of Grodno, proves the fact that both witnetses had before them
the docuinent with the seal described in its body, on p. 80 of the
record, as the seal of the nobility of Grodno.
Nor can the testimony of these witnesses be impeached by
giving it a different construction than the nature of the case
admits of, the appellees having neglected to cross-examine them,
(Starkie on Evid. Phil. ed. of 1842 , pp. 197, 212, 214, 316, 317,
577,) though their counsel were pretent at the taking of depositions, and cross-examined one witness on other matters.
Independent of the above, witness Kalussowki explained himself as to his testimony by deposition.
The Assemblies of Nobility, when callel upon to decide on
pedigree, issue as many original- copies of decrees as there are
interested parties.
In this case, four original copies of such decree were issued,
and delivered to the at nellants. The original copy, of which
the translation is markea A, on p; 73 of the record, is oxie of
these four copies. None of these copies is "better evidence."
Each of them is evidence of the same decree for all purposes.
-Reference is made tlat a certain Pole, Klimkiewicz, filed a
bill claiming the estate, as next of kin of Kosciusko. This individual attempted to impose in the premises-when, upon the
'death of the former counsel of the appellants, they had no one
here to take care of their claim. This suit abated by the death
of Klimkiewicz and of administrator Bomford, and its papers
fqrmed no part of the record in the court below.
The xesidue of Kosciusko's estate goes -to the appellants, as
his next of kin, upon the principle laid down in 1 Jarman on
Wills, 3, 4, &c.; Civil Code of Napoleon, art. 750.
IV. Are the defendants liable to account, as is charged in the
bill, on pp. 6, 8, of the record?
The decree dismissing the bill against Jonathan B. IL Smith,
a" administrator of th& estate of Bomford, is not questionedBomford having died insolvent, (pp. 48, 109, of the record.)
As to the same Jonathan B. H. Smith, trustee of the property

DECEMBER TERM, 1852-.

407

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

which Bomford delivered to him as counter security, with the
deed of trust, on p. 23 of the record, he is bound to account for
it to the appellants, upon the principle laid' down in 1 Story's
Com. on Eq. § 502; Eq. Abridg. 93, K. 5; Comm. Dig. Chancery, 4, D. 6; Wright v. Morley, 11 Ves. 22. He is bound alsq
to account, upon the same principle, for the sum of $4,156.92,
for rents, &c., which he admitted to hold in his hands -in the
for such after rents -as acanswer on p. 49 of the record -and
crued since the filing of that answer.
Lewis Johnson, administrator de bonis non pf Kosciusko's.
estate, in his original answer, (p. 29 of the record,) admitted,
that at the time of the filing of it he had under his control
stock of the Bank of Washington of the nominal value of
$5,580.00-of which the market price'was then 60 per 109and $200 in cash. In his amended answer, (on p. 62 of the
recoid,) he informed the court that said bank refused to pay him
further dividends, under "pretence" that this stock does not
belong to Koseiusko's estate; and on p. 63 of it, be admitted
that he had in hands $268.28 in cash. In view of these adIpissions, the decree of the court below- dismissing the bill agfins
him as administrator de bonis non, is erroneous; he ought to
account for the cash and the ctw-tificate of the stock which he
holds.
As to the liability of the sureties of Bomford:
This is the only point upon which the court below delivered
a written opinion. It is not in the record, the Judges not having,
filed it in the case, but it will be found in a separate pamphlet,
published 6y the appellees.
Grounds upon which the court below dismissed the bill
against the sureties, are as follows:
First, because the original assets of Kosciusko having been
converted into money, by Lear, the first administrator, this'
money and tke evidences of the new investments could not (in
the opinion of the court below) pass lawfully to Bomford as
the administrator de bonis won of'the estate of Kosciusko, but
he ought to have administered them as Lear's executor, (pp. 9,
12, 13, of the opinion); secondly, because Bomford, administrator de bois non, "converted and. used" the funds of Kosciusko's estate before the date of the bonds, (id. 14); thirdly, because the act of Congress of 1846, (chap. 8,) and the bonds
obtained under it, are prospective, and not retrospective, (id.
16-21); fourthly, because what is retained by the first administrator cannot go to the administrator de bonis 'on, (id. 21-24);
fifthly, variances of the bonds referred to in the bill, -dnd exhibited as evidence, were .alleged, (id. 7,) but the court expressed
no opinion as to it.-

'408

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

The counsel'for the appellees made the following points, many
of which were divided into subdivisions. Mr. Coxe argjed
Oints 1, 2, 4, and 5. i1'. Redit, points 7 and- 8, and part of 3.
r 11arbury the remaining subdivision of e;,
and point 6.
The appellees, the sureties of Bomford, contend:
I. That the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the cause.
Act of .21st Feb. 1801, § 6; 3d March, 1801, § 3; Judioin1 Act
of 1789; Strawbridge v. Curtis, 3 Cranch, 267.
I. That the claim must be made through the -drministrator
of- Kosciusko's domicil.
The administration in-the District of Columbia, if the domicil
was, as the complainants allege, in France, was merely ancillary, and, after paying debts, &c., the residue of the estate ought
to be remitted to France, to the executors under the wills of
1816 and 1817; and complainants, all bcing or representing
foreign parties, must proceed against such foreign executors, and
cannot sue the ancillary administrator here; and the bill makes
no case in which. a foreign distributee can maintain an action
here. Story's Conft. Laws, §-513, and cases cited in the notes.
II. That if the appellants have proved themselves to be the
true representatives of Kosciusko, and can claim directly, the
defendants, as sureties of Bomford, as administrator de boniv imn
of Kosciusko, are not liable to them, 1. Because the whole of the original, assets were converted
into money by Lear in his life, except Bnk of Columbia stock;
and because the money and new securities on hand at his death
passed to Bomford, as executor of Lear, for distribution, and
Bomford's sureties, in that capacity, if any, are answerable; that
Bomiford had no legal right or authority, as 'administrator de
bards non, to receive such money and securities; and the de'fendants, as sureties for him in that character, are liable only
for what he could lawfully and riglitflly receive ii virtue of his
'ffice as such administrator; that their bond does not cover
what is"
claimed.
2. Admitting Bomford came rightfully, as adrninistrattr de
bonis non, into possession of the money and securities left by
Lear, the sureties are not liable to the full extent of the comprainant's claim; because Bomford wasted and converted to his
own use, prior to the date of the bonds, as sh3wn by complainant's proof, $30,625.47, part of said assets, far which the sureties
are not liable, their bonds being prospective and not retrospective.
a.The third ground .upo.hwhich the sureties are not liable to
complainants is, that there is a fatal variance between the bonds
a%,charged in the bill, and 'the bonds as exhibited by complainants to prove the charge; and further, that said bonds are void.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

409

Ennis ct al. v. Smith et al.

IV. That there is no proof in this cause that the appellants
are the ne.kt of lkin of Kosciusko.
V. If the complainants are the next of kin, and if there be
liability on the part of the sureties, there was no intestacy by
Kosciusko as to these funds; but if the will of 1798 be revoked,
or its trusts cannot be carried out, then the will of 1817 disposes
of the whole fund to Mr. and Mrs. Zavier Zeltner, and intercepts
the claim of the next of kin.
As to the trust of the will of 1798, vide 2 Story Eq. §§ 1169,
1172,1176; Brocket's case, 9 How.; Girard's, 2 How.;.Bap. Ass'n,
4 Wheaton.
Kosciusko did not intend to die intestate as to any of his
property; this is shown by his frequent wills, and by the introductory clause in the will of 1817.
The words of the will of 1817, in the introductory clause are,
"rues biens;" in the clause of gift (the second) "tous mes effets,
mna voiture, et mion cheval y comnprise."
Standing alont, the words a~e~broad enough to pass his whole
estate. "lI es biens," meaning "estate," " what a man is worth,"
and "tous mes effets." "all or the whole of my effects or property."
The words " o us ries effets" would pass the whole residue;
and the introduction of the words, "my carriage and horse included," was not for the purpose of restricting or qualifying the
former terms, but resulted.from the testator's anxiety that those
articles should pass under the general terms.
The expression is "included;" and the rule of ejusdem generis
is inapplicable. The clause in this will of 1817 comes within
the qualifying cases upon that rule, of Fleming v. Burrows, 1
Russ. C. C. 277; Kendal v. Kendal, 4 Russ. C. C. 360, (2 Win's
Ex'ors, 1019); Arnold v. Arnold, 2 Mlylne & Keen, 365, (2
in's Ex'ors, 1019); Parker v. Marchant, 1 Younge & Collier
C. C. 290; Rop. on. Leg. 210, 211.
Mr. and Mrs. Zavier Zeltner are not made parties in this bill.
VI. If there was intestacy, then it is not proved where the
domicil of Kosciusko was at the time of his death; nor is the
law or rule of representation or succession shown; these must
be stated in the bill, and proved as stated.
The bill states that Kosciusko was a native of Poland, and
died at Soleure, in Switzerland, intestate, and possessed of a
large personal estate in the United States.
It is alleged that Franc was the domicil of the intestate at
the time of his death, and that by the law of France, then in
force, the succession to the whole of the said estate was cast
upon the d&scendants of his sisters, representing the parents
living at the time.
VOL. XIV.

35

410

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et"al. v. Smith ot al.

The defendants contend1. That there is no evidence tb Prove the domicil, as alleged.
.Mere residence, is not in itself proof of a 3hange of domicil; it
must be animo manendi. Story's Confl. of Laws, § 39; 1 Cur.
E. I 856; 2 Id. 897; 7 Clark & Fin. 876.
'.2. That the law of the assumed domicil-is not set forth in the
bill.
3. That there is no evidence in the case, to prove- the .law of
Fiance providing for the succession of an intestate's personal
estate.
To prove this law, as alleged,-the complainants offred in evidence a printed olume of the Code Napoleon. To the admis-,
sibility of which, for such purpose, the dfendants objected; and
they rely on I Greenleaf, §§ 487, 488; 3 Wend. Rep. 173; 6 Id.
375, 384, and 389.
The defendants also contend, that if the printed volume of the
*codebe received as admissible, the law. as contained in the Code
does not entitle the complainants to the succession of said estafe, as claimed by them. They refer to the Code, book 1, § 11;
book 3, §.726.
VII. That proper parties are not made.
1. Lear's sureties, as administrator of Kosciusko, ought to have
beertniade -parties..
2.. So ought Bpmford's sureties, as executor of Lear.
8. So ought "Tomford's original sureties, as administrator de
bonis non of Kosciusko.
4. And so ought Mr. and Mrs. Zavier Zeltner, the residuary
*legatees in the will of 1817.
There is no averment in the bill, of the insolvency of any of
the omitted sureties to excuse the omission.
The averment goes no further than thai; the original sureties
of Bomford,.as administrator de bnis min, are dead, and the
bond is open to the plea of limitations. Story's Eq. P1. § 169,
and note 5; Madox v. Jackson, 3 Atk. 406 : Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Yes. 321, overruling Stanley v. Cook, Moseley's Rep.
383, &c.
VII. That the remedy agairist the sureties was at, law on
the bonh, and not in equity.
'The sureties severally filed demurrers, general and special, to
the complainants' bill; in suppoit of whiah, they contend that
the complainants have a free and unobstructed remedy at law
against them on their bonds, and have, therefore, no right to
bring them before the codrt as parties in this cause.
In the case of Richardson v. Jones, (3 Gill & J. 163,) it wvtz
held that a court of chancery had no jurisdiction (on petition
by a trustee acting under a decree of the Chancellor to sell land,'

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

411

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

to order the purchaser and his sureties, who had given a bond
for the purchase-money, to bring the same into court, to be paid
td the trustee. The court say, the contract on this bond is a
purely legal one, and can be enforced by an action at law and
trial before a jury.
In the case of Boteler & Belt v. Brookes, (7 Gill & J.) 143, on
petition to the Chancellor to compel the sureties in a trustee's
bond (he being dead and insolvent,) to bring the proceeds of a
sale made by the trustee, into court, the court held that the obligation of the sureties on their bond was purely legal, and could
be enforced in. a court of law only.
In Brooke v. Boteler et al. (12 Gill & J. 307,) it was held
that a bill in chancery might be maintained against sureties in
a bond, when there could be no remedy at law. In the particular case,. the trustee being dead, insolvent, and there being no
administration on his estate, there could be no order by the
court for the payment of the complainants' claim. At page
317, the court say, "6No person could maintain a suit at law in
such case, until payment was awarded by order of the court
under whose decree the land was sold, and demanded of the
trustee."
The cases in 4 Munford's Rep. 289; 2 Edw. Ch. Rep. 67; 9
Porter's Rep. 697; were determined on the ground that a preliminary judgment, and execution against the administrator, was
necessary to establish a devastavit, before suit could be- mantained against sureties in an administration bond; and the Court
say that a complainant would be without remedy, if not allowed
to sue in chancery.
It was said this would not be allowed in an ordinary case,
wNhere the administrator was alive, and within the reach of the
common-law courts, and a judgment could be obtained against
him. Bolton v. Powell, 8 Eng. L. and E. Rep. 165.
But by the act of Assembly of Maryland, 1798, c. 101, sub. c.
8, § 15, and sub. c. 11, § 1, distribution is to be made when the
debts are paid. A distributee may sue at law on the administration bond, against thn sureties, after the lapse of thirteen
months, without having first obtained judgment and issued execution against the administrator. 7 Gill & J. 475.
More than thirteen months had elapsed between the filing of
the new bonds and the filing of the bill.- A right of action at
law had accrued on the bonds before the filing of the bill.
Again; the complainants do not in their bill aver that there
was a surplus in the hands of Bomford, as administrator de bonis
von, after the payment of debts, to which they, as distributees
of the estate of Kosciusko, under the French law, are entitled.
Which omission, the defeniants say, is bad on demurrer Stevens v. Frost, 2 Younge & Coll. 297.

412

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The purpose of this suit is to recover for the descendants of
the sisters of General Kosciusko, the fulds which he owned in
the United States at the time of his death.
Several points are suggested by the pleadings.
We will consider such of them as we think necessary, after
having stated the origin of the fund in controversy, and the
management of it, from the time that Kosciusko placed it under
the care of Mr. Jefferson -until the death of Colonel Bomford,
the administrator de bonts non, in eighteen hundred and fortyeight.
General Kosciusko came, to the Uniteci States early in our
revolutionary war, to join our army. He. did so at first as a
volunteer,. In October, 1776, he received from Congress the
commission of Colonel of Engineers. iHe served with great
distinction until the close of the war, and then retired from tht
.army, after our independence had been acknowledged, with the
rank of Brigadier-General. He stood prominently with those
great men of our own country, with whom he had given seven
years of his life to secure its" freedom and nationality. He returned to Poland, poorer than when he carne to us, and was, in
fact, our creditor for a part of his military 1?ay.
. His subsequent career in Europe is a part of its history. tui
that we can say of it in connection with thid base, is, that he returned to the United States after he was released from the prisons
of Catherine, by her son and successor, the Emperor Paul.
Whilst he was absent from the United States, a military certificate for twelve thousand two hundred and eighty dollars and
fifty-four cents, had been issued, as due to him for services during the war. Not having been, for several years, in a situation
to claim or to receive it, until his return to the United States,
in 1798, Congress passed an act in 1799, (6 Stat. at Large, 32,)
directi: g the Secretary of the Treasury to pay to him the amount
of the certificate, with interest from the first day of January,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, to the thirty-first
of December,' one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven.
It was'not a gratuity, but a simple act of justice, graduated
then by the inability of our country to do more. It yet remains
for us to give some national testimonial of his virtues, and of
his services in the war of our independence. Seven years of
peril and suffering, of wise forecast in counsels of -var,and of
dauntless bravery in the fiela, may claim from our people grateful recollections, and the expression of them in the best way
'that they can be commemorated by art. The cadets at West
Point, unaided by the Government, have reared to his memory
a. monumenrt t re, and it is the only memorial of him upon the
face of our land.

DECEMBER TERM,
Ennis et

1852.

413

i. v. Smith et al.

That military certificate, with a part of the interest upon it,
was the basis of the fund now in controversy.
It was paid to Kosciusko, was invested in American stocks
in his own name, and placed under the care and direction of
Mr. Jefferson.
In a letter from Mr. Jefferson, in answer to one from H. E. M.
De Politica, the Russian Minister at Washington, of the 27th
of May, 1819, written by the latter, at the instance of the Viceroy of Poland, to make inquiries about the fund, Mr. Jefferson
says: "A little before the departure of the General from
America, in 1798, he wrote a will, all with his own hand, in
which he' directed that the property he should possess here, at
the time of his death, should be' laid out in the purchase of
young negroes, who were to be educated and emancipated -of
this will he named me executor, and deposited it in my hands.
The interest of his money. was to be regularly remitted to him
in Europe. My situation in the interior of the country, rendered it impossible for me to act personally in the remittances of
his funds, and Mr. John Barnes, of Georgbtowvn, was engaged,
under a power of attorney, to do that on commission; which
duty he regularly and faithfully performed, until we heard of
the death of the General. We had, in the mean time, by seasonably withdrawing a part of his funds from the bank in
which he had deposited them, and lending them to the govern.
ment during the late-war, (with England,) augmented them to
seventeen thousand one hundred and fifty-line dollars sixtythree cents, to wit: $12,499.63, in the funds of the United
States, and $4,600 in the Bank of Columbia, at Georgetown.
I delayed for some time the regular probate of the will,, expecting to hear from Europe, whether he had left any will there,
which might affect his property here. I thought that prudence
and safety required -this, although the last letter he wrote me
before his death, dated September 15th, 1817, assured me of
the contrary, in these words: ' Nous avan~ons tous on age, c'est
pour cela, mon cher et respectable .imi, que je vous prie de
vouloir bien (et comme vous avez tout le pouvoir,) arranger qu'
apres la. mort de notre digne ami, Mr. Barnes, quelqu'un d'aussi
probe que lui prenne sa place, pour que je reqoive les interests
ponctuellement de mon fonds; duquel, apr~s ma mort, vous
savez, la destination invariable, quant a, present faites pour le
rnieux comme vous pensez.'
" Translation.
" We all grow old, and for that reason, my dear and respect.
able friend, I ask you, as you have full power to do, to arrange
it in such a manner that, after the death of our worthy friend,
Mr. Barnes, some one, as honest as himself, may take his place,
35*

414

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

so that I may receive the interest of my money punctually; of
which money, after my death, you kn6w the fixed destination.
As for the present, do what you think besr.'
"After his death, a claim was presented to me, on behalf of
Kosciusko Armstrong, son of General Armstrong, of three
thousand seven hundred and four dollars, given in Kosciusko's
lifetime, payable out of this fund; and, subsequently, came a
claim to the whole, from Mr. Zeltner, under a will made there.
I proceeded, on the advice of the Attorney-General of the
United States, to prove the will, in the State Court of the District in which I reside, but declined the executorship. 'When
the General named me his execuitor, I was young enough to
undertake the duty, although, from its nature, it was likely to be
of long continuance; but, the lapse of twenty years, or more,
had rendered it imprudent for me to engage in what I could not
live to carry into effect. Finding, now, by your letter of May
27th, that a relation of the General's also claims the property;
that it is likely to become litigious, and age and incompetence to
business admonishing me to withdraw myself from entanglements of that kind, I have determined to deliver the will, and
the whole subject, over to such court of the United States as
the Attorney-General of the United States shall advise, (proba.
bly it will be that of the District of Columbia,) to place the
case in his hands, and to petition that court to relieve me from
it, and to appoint an administrator, with the will annexed.
Such an administrator wvill probably call upon the different
claimants to interplead, and let the couri; decide what shall be
done with the property. This I shall do, sir, with as little delay
as the necessary consultations will admit; and, when the administrator is appointed, I shall deliver to him the original certificates which are in my possession. The accumulating interest
and dividends remain, untouched, in the Treasury of the United
States, and Bank of Columbia."
The facts of this letter are referred to and admitted, in the
answer of the defendants, but we preferred to give them in the
language of the writer.
Mr. Jefferson carried out his intentions, and letters of adminis.ration were granted to the late Benjamin F. Lear. He received,
in different kinds of stock, and in dividends, which had accrued
since the death of Kosciusko, $25,031.43,; $4,100.6% of which,
were applied by him for the payment of United States' six per
cents, which had been purchased on acccunt of the estate, by
the direction of the Orphans' Court, wher. it had the control of
the fund. It is not necessary, for the purposes of this suit, to
inquire into the correctness of Mr. Lear's accounts of his adfninistration. There is nothing on the record making them

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

415

Enni8 et al. v. Smaith et al.

doubtful. He died in 1832, and it appears, from the books and
papers from which the final account of his administration was
made, that the funds in his hands had been increased to $31,785.27. Colonel Bomford, his successor, charged himself with
that sum.
The accounts of both, however, must be looked into, for
another purpose. And that is, to determine, from the changes
made by Lear in'the funds, and in his mode of managing them,
in what official relation to Lear Bomford received them, and
why it is, though he did so as the executor of Lear, that the
defendants in this suit, by becoming his bondsmen, under the act
of the 20th February, 1846, have made themselves liable for the
devastavit of their principal. And here we will consider that
point of the case.
It appears, from the accounts of Lear, that he thought he
was authorized, as administrator, to change the funds of the
estate into other funds, and to lend them upon private securitieg,
without the permission of the Orphans' Court. Most, if not all
of them, in whatever way invested by him, were in his own
name, at the time of his death. Bomford took them, as, his
executor, and settled an account with the Orphans' Court, in
which he charged himself, as executor of Lear, with all the
stocks, bonds, mortgages, and other securities for the payment
of money, and the money of the estate, which Lear had, as
administrator, at the time of his death. In fact, the funds, excepting the stock of the Bnnk of Columbia, were converted into
money, in Lear's hands, and Bomford took them, as his executor, with the obligation, as such, to account for the same to
whomsoever might be entitled to Kosciusko's estate. This
being so, the question arises, whether or not his sureties, as executor of Lear, were not liable for any waste of the estate by
him, instead of his sureties, as the admfhistrator of Kosciusko,
upon the ground that the latter were only liable, by their bonds,
for so much as he received as administrator, and not for what he
had possessed himself of, as the executor of Lear.
Bomford, it must be remembered, was the executor of Lear,
and became, also, by appointment of the Orphans' Court, the
administrator de bonis non cure testanzento of Kosciusko, under
the laws of Maryland, as they were of force in that part of the
District of Columbia which had been a part of Maryland when
Congress took jurisdiction over the same. His bonds, in both
relations to the two estates of Lear and Kosciusko, were given
under that law; and the obIigation§ of himself and his sureties
are determined by what has been the judicial interpretation and
administration of it in Maryland, uncontrolled by any decisions
of other courts elsewhere.

416

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

We understand, by the laws of Maryland, as they stood when
Congress assumed jurisdiction over the District of Columbia,
that the property of a deceased person was considered to.be administered, whenever it was sold, or converted into money, by
the administrator or executor, or in any respect changed from
the condition in which' the deceased left it. It did not go to
the administrator de bonis non, unless, on the death of the executor or administrator, it remained in specie, or was the same
then that it was when it came to his hands. When the assets
have been changed, it is said, in Maryland, that the property has
been administered. In that sense, all the funds received by
Lear, and changed by him into other securities, were administered by him. If this suit, then, had been brought against the
first sureties of Bomford, in his original bond as administrator
de bonis non. of Kosciusko, they would not have been answerable. For any waste of the estate of Kosciusko, the remedy
would have been against him and his sureties, as executor of
Lear, and if the assets had been wasted by Lear, Lear's securities would have been answerable. Nor would the circumstance
thatBomford charged himself with these assets, as administrator
de bonis won, make any difference. His sureties could be made
liable only for the assets which legally cane to his hands; that
is, for what remained in specie, unadministered. Nor could he
make them liable for more, by charging himself, in his account
as administrator, with any property which had been changed by
his predecessor, or administered, as it is said to be, in Maryland,
when such d change is made, by an administrator or executor.
Such being the law as to the responsibility of Lear and his
sureties, and of Bomford and his. original sureties, it was urged
in the court below, as we see from the decision of the learned
Judge who 'gave that court's opinion, and here also in argament by the counsel of the defendants, that it applied equally
tb Bomford's second and third sets of sureties, who became so
under the act of" Congress of the 20th February, 1846. 9 Stat.
at Large, 4. So the court below decided, but we think it did
so erroneously. The error consists in this, that the bonds of
these defendants were treated as if they were the same as the
original bonds given by the first sureties of Bomford under the
Maryland law, and that the relations of Bomford to the estate
of Kosciusko were precisely such as they wNere when he came
into the possession of the Kosciusko funt s, as the executor of
Lear. The argument was this: that as Bomford had, from the
character of the assets at the death of Lear, a valid right to
them, as Lear's executor, and was bound by law to administer
them as Lear was, that he would not have any legal right in
them as administrator de bomis non, to bind these defendants as

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

417

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

his sureties for any ot his defaults; particularly as it appears
from his accounts, including the last of them, that he charges
himself with a balance of $43,504.40, in his ninth account; the
items of which related to transactions which had. taken place
before the date of either of the bonds of the defendants.
Now, upon such a state of facts, it must be admitted-that
Boinford himself was bound for the anount stated by him to be
due, in an account of assets of the estate of Kosciusko, and
that his original sureties were not under the Maryland law, for
those assets which had been administered by Lear.
For what purpose then, it may be asked, did the Orphans'
Court call upon Bomford, after he had rendered his eighth account. to give'other sureties, under the penalty, if he did not do
so, that he would be displaced as administrator, and that another
administrator would be appointed in his stead, unless it was to
secure that amount for which he* had become personally liable,
though it had been originally received by him as executor, but
for which there were no sureties in fact, when the defendants
became so? They became his sureties under the 3d section of
the act of 1846. 9 Stat. at Large, 4. That section proVides,
that, whenever the Orphans' Court shall be satisfied that the
security which has been taken, or which may hereafter b& taken
from an executor or administrator, is insufficient, by -reason of
the removal or insolvency of any of the sureties, or because the
penalty of the bond is too small, or from any cause whatever,
that the court may call upon the administrator or executor to
give additional security, and if there shall be a failure to comply.
with such order, the court is empowered to appoint another administrator in the stead of the first, and to require, from him
removed, to hand over to his successor the unadministered assets,
and to enforce compliance with such an order by fine and
attachment or any other legal process. The act, and the proceedings of the Orphans' Court under it, towards the administrator, Colonel Bomnford, cover exactly such a case as this. The
object of the law, and the purpose of the court, was to get from
the administrator additional and adequate security, for the funds
which he had stated in his sworn account to be still unadminis,
tered "n his hands, without any regard to the fact which could
not then have been known to the court, whether they had been
misused or not b) him; but which, from his rendered account,
it might properly have been inferred had not been. The act
permits the court, in the cases mentioned in the 3d section, nbt
only to take security for assets which might in future come. to
the hands of the administrator, but for such as he had already
received and returned to the court as in his hands, or of which
he ought to have made a return, and which may not have been

418

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et iJ.

properly administered. If that be not the proper interpretation
of the act, it would be nugatory and idle. Instead of the power
of the court being enlarged by it, it would be just as powerless
to act in the cases mentioned in the 3d section, as it had been
under the law of Maryland. The bonds of the defendants were
manifestly given with reference to the accounts which had been
filed in the Orphans' Court by Colonel Bomford. They must
have so understood it; for in one of them the action of the
Orphans' Court, under the law of 1846, is recited, and the record
shows that the sureties in the other took from their principal a
counter ,security,to indemnify them on account of his failure to
discharge all of his duties as administrator. The bonds of the
defendants are distinguishable from the original bonds which the
administrator gave, the latter having been given before any
inventory was returned, or account stated in the court, and when
no particular sum was due from the administrator; and the
bonds of these defendant were given for a sam certain, refurned
to the court by the administrator, due by h-m in that character.
All of us concur in thinking that the bonds of the defendants
were properly taken under the act of 1846. That the Orphans'
Court called for them to secure the amount with which the administrator then stood charged, and such as he might afterwards
get. They were accepted and approved by the court for that
purpose, and the sureties gave them with a full knowledge of the
state of the account which the administrator had filed. All of
us think, also, that- they are answerable for his waste, unless
something else in the case can relieve them.
The first objection is, that Kosciusko did not die intestate as
to his personal property in the UnitedState3, and that the same
passed, by the second article of the will of 1817, to M. and
Madame Zavier Zeltner, of Soleure, in Switze'rland.
2. That there is no proof in the case that Kosciusko was
domiciled at his death in France, and if be was, that the complainants have failed to prove what the law of France was at
that date, for the distribution of the personal estate of one who
dies domiciled there.
3. It is also said, that it is not proved that those persons
named in the bill as being entitled to the fund sued for, have
such a relationship to Kosciusko as entitled them to receive it.
We will consider these objections in their order.
Kosciusko made four wills. One of them in the United
States, in 1798, -which, after his death, Mr. Jefferson proved in
the Court of Albemarle, in Virginia. His second will was made
in Paris, in 1806, in which he charged the fund mentioned in
the first wll with a lsgacy to Kosciusko Armstrong. His third
and fourth wills were made at Soleure, in Switzerland; the third

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

419

Ennis et al. v. Smith ot al.

on the 4th of June, 1816, and the fourth on the 10th October,
1817. It is not denied that he made the first, second, and fourth
wills, but the defendants attack the third on account, as they
suppose, that the probate of it had been taken in the Orphans'
Court in Washington, without due proof of its execution; and
they rely upon the fourth will to shbw that it'contains a residuary
article in favor of Monsieur and Madame Zeltner, after the payment of specific legacies.
We think that all of the wills have been proved according to
the rules of evidence, and that the authenticated exemplification
of that Qf 1816, from th6 registry of it in France, -recorded in
the Orphans' Court for the District of Columbia, is all that can
be required. With these wills in view, we have the means to
decide the effect of them on the property in controversy.
The olographic will of 1816, contains a revoking clause. It
is in these.terms: "Je revoque tous les testaments et codidiles que
j'ai pu faire avant le pr6sent auquel seul je m'arr~te comme contenant mes dernier s volantes." Translated in the record: "I
revoke all the wills and codicils which I may have made previous
to the present, to which alone I confine myself, as containing
my last wishes."
The right to revoke a will exists now in every nation,.though
the exercise of it is differently regulated. It may be done by an
express revocation, or by certain acts, which of themselves infer,
or'from which the law infers, a revocation. "Ambulatoria est
voluntas defuncti usque ad vitre supremurn excitum." Nor can
one bind himself in a testament not to make another. "Nemo
potest in testamento suo cavere, ne legis-in suo testamento locum
habeant; quia nce tempore, aut conditione finiri obligatio haaridis
legatorun nomine potest." Dig. Lib. 34, tit. 4 1. 4; Dig. Lib.
30, tit. 1, 1. 55, In England, the manner of revocation is prescribed by the 6th and 22d sections -of the Statute of Frards.
In Spain and in Holland, a will may be revoked by an Act confined to tb- revocation of that testament, without making any
other disposition; or by making another testament which expressly revokes the former, if either manner as it may be used,
is executed with the forms and solemnities which the law required
to give validity to the first will. 13y the customs of Paris and
Normandy, revocations could be made by a simple declaration
before two notaries, or before one notary and two witnesses,
without its being done in any prescribed form. And by the
same customs, a declaration in the handwriting of a testator,
and signed by himself, revoked his testament, and the effect of
it was to make him iaitestate. Law 25, tit. 1, p. 6; Voet. lib.
28; tit. 3, n. 1; Matth. de Success; disp. 8, n. 18. But we
learn from Touillier and fiom the Code Civil, that these customs

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et tI.

were abolished, and that in France, wills may be revoked in
whole or in part, by a subsequent will, or by an act before notaries, containing a declaration of such intention. Touillier
liv. 3, tit. 2 ; Don. et Test. ch. 5, n. 619 ; Pothier des Don. Test.
ch. 6, § 2, § 1 ; Art. Code Civil, 969, 1035-36-38.
The will of 1816 was made at Soleure, while Kosciusko was
sojouining there, after he had left Vienna, in 1815i whither he
had gone from Paris, at the instance of the Emperor Alexander,
that he might be advised with concerning tae affairs of Poland.
It is an olographic will, wholly written in the handwriting of
the testator, according to the 970th article of the Code Civil.
It gives specific legaciesto persons residing in France, charged
upon funds owned by the testator in France, and his executor
was a notary at Morcu, in the department of Seine and Marne,
which is the opening of the will, the testator says, in the department of his residence, at Berville.
Within the month of Kosciusko's death, the -ill was taken
to Paris, and recorded there, pursuant to law. The executor
having received authority from the proper tribunal to act as
such, paid, according to the will, the legacies given by it. See
arts. Code Civil, 999, 1000.
The wills, then, of 1798 and of
1806, were revoked by the will of 1816, and as the testator did
not make in it any disposition of his American funds, he died
intestate as to them, unless the second article in the will of 1817,
has the effect of a residuary bequest to the persons named in it.
It is, "I bequeathe all of my effects, (elfets,) my carriage
and my horse included, to Madame and to Mr. Zavier Zeltner,
above named." It will be seen, by the first clause in the will,
that they are the father and mother of Emilie Zeltner, to
whom he bequeathed about fifty thousand francs of France,
charged upon funds in England, in the hands of Thompson,
Bonard & Co.
We shall be aided, in the construction of the second article
of the will of 1817, by keeping in mind what were te relations
between himself and the Zeltner family, as they are disclosed
by his wills of 1816 and 1817. He makes them, in both wills,
his legatees, except a legacy tb General Baszkoyski; two small
legacies to his executors; two thousand francs to the poor, and
one thousand for his own burial. His chosen friends were without fortune. He says so in that memorable letter which he
wrote to the Emperor Alexander, after the allies had entered
Paris, in 1814; from which it may be sebn, when his country
was nearest his heart, that his friend was there too. Fletcher's
Poland: Harp. Faro. -Lib. 301; Ozinski, 4, p. 175. To the
two. daughters of that" friend, Andrew Lewis Zeltner, with
Whom he had lived for fifteen years, he gives all of his fuids in

DECEMBEI

TERM, 1852.

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

France, amounting to ninety-five thousand- francs, excepting a
legacy to his executof. To the daughter of Zavier Zeltner,
with Whom he was staying when the wills of 1816 and 1817
were made, and where he died, he bequeathes fifty thousand
francs; and it is to him and to his wife, that he says, I bequeathe
all my effects, my carriage and horse included. From its lace
in the will of 18175 and from the connection of the words "all
my effects, with my carriage and horse included," it would oe a
very strained construction, to make the words, all of my effects,
comprehend his personal estate in the United States, it being
neither alluded to in any way in this will, nor in that of 1816.
Except in so far as it might, under the will of 1816, have been
applied to the payments of the legacies given in that will, upon
the failure of the funds upon which they were first charged.
Effects, in French, or the word effets, has the same meaning in
common parlance and in law, that it has in English. Its meaning properly in either, when used indefinitely in wills, but in
connection with something particular and certain, is limited by
its association to other things of a like kind. It is from the
subject-matter of its use, that intention of something else is -to
be implied; and that of course may be larger or less. In some
instances in wills, the word has carried the whole personal estate. When in connection with words of themselves of larger
meaning, or of fixed legal import, as there were in the case of
Bosley v. Bosley, decided at this term of the court, such a
clause in a will is residuary. 5 Madd. Ch. Rep. 72; 6 Madd.
Ch. Rep. 119; Cowper, 299; 1J5 Vesey, 507.
Such being the rule, it is our opinion, that the second article
in the will of 1817, is not residuary, and that it has no relation
to the funds in controversy.
It follows, then, that as the wills of 1798 and of 1806. were
revoked by the xill of 1816, and as no disposition was made in
it, or in the will of 1817, of the funds in controversy, that General Kosciusko died intestate as to them, and that they may be
distributed to his relations who may be entitled to inherit from
him, according to the law of his domicil at the time of his death.
We now proceed to the question of domicil.
In the will of 1806, he describes himself as "an officer of
the United States of America, in their revolutionary war against
Britain, and a native of Lithuania, in Poland, at present residing in Paris." In the will of 1816, made at Soleure, his
language is: " I, the undersigned Thaddeus Kosciusko, residing
at Berville, in the township Genevraye, of the department of
Seine and Marne, (being now) or at present at Soleure, in
Switzerland." In the will of 1817, nothing is' said of his residence. The record shows that he went from the United States
VOL. XIV.

36

SUPREME

COUIT.

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

to France in 1798, that he was there in. 1806, when he said he
resided at Paris. There is no pioof that he was not continuously in France until 1815, when he went to Vienna. We
know, too, historically, that.he left it in June of that year for
Soleure, when he found out that it had been determined in the
Congress of Vienna to erect the Duchy of Warsaw into a kingdom, without including in it his native province of Lithuania.
We do not, however permit the historical facts just alluded
to, or any other of a like kind, to have any weight in forming
our conclusion concerning his domicil at the time of his death.
The facts in the record are sufficient for that purpose.
In the first place, his declarations that his residence was in
France, in the way they were made in his wills, with an interval
of ten years, between them, wouldupon the authority of adjudged cases, be sufficient to establish, primd facie, his domicil
in .France. Such declarations have always been received in
evidence, when made previous to the event which gave rise to
the suit. They have been received in the courts of France, in
the courts of England, and in those of our own country. In
two questions of domicil in France, such declarations in a
power of attorney, and in other instruments, were received as
evidence. Denisart, fit. Domicil, § 1. In the English courts
there are many cases in which like declarations have 'been offered and received. 5 Term Rep. 512, and the observations of
Mr. Evans, axon et un 2 Poth. Ob]. App. No. 16, § 11. Rawson
v. Haigh, 2 Bing. 99; 9 Moore, 217; S. C. W. & M. 353. Lord
Tenterden, 1 Bing. N. C.; 5 C. "& P. 575; 1 Taylor, 376. In
the United.States, the ease of Gorham v. Canton, (5 Greenleaf,
266,) is to the same effect; and in Massachusetts, in the cases of
Thorndike v. Boston, (1 Metcalf,) and Kilbum v. Bennett, (3
Metcalf, 199,) it was ruled that in a case where the question of
domicil was raised, the declarations and letters of a party whose
domicil was disputed, were admissible in evidence, especially if
made previous to the event which gave rise to the suit. We
find, also, in 8 Pickering, 476, that the will of a grandfather in
1774, in which he was described as being of 0. and another
will, in -vhich he is described as resident in 0., were admissible
evidence.to prove that the grandfather had obtained a settlement
atO.
Kosciusko'stdomicil of origin was- Lithuania, in Pdland. The
presumption of lavr is that it was retaied, unless the chauge is
proved, and.the burden of proving it is upon him who alleges
the changes. Somerville v. Somerville, 6 Vesey, 787; Voetj
Pand. tit. 1, 5, N. 99.
But what amount of proof is necessary to change a domicil
of orgin into aprimcfaciedomicil of cho-ce? It is residenc

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

423

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

elsewhere, or where a person lives out of the domicil of origin..
That repels the presumption of its continuance, and casts updn
him who denies the domicil of choice, the burden of disproving
it. Where a person lives, is taken pimfacie to be his domcil,
until other* facts establish the contrary. Story's Com. 44, 6
Rule; Bruce v. Bruce, 2 Bos. & Pul. 228, Note 239; 3 Ves. 198,
291; Hagg. Consist. 374, 437. It is difficult to lay down anrule under which every instance of residence could be brought,
which may make a domicil of choice. But there must be to
constitute it actual residence in the place, with the intention
that it is to be a principal and permanent residence. That intention may be inferred from the circumstances or condition in
which a person may be as to the domicil of his origin,-or" from
the seat of his fortune, his family and pursuits of life. Pothier,
Introd. Gen. aux Cout. p. 4; D'Argenti6, Cout. Art. 449; Touillier, lib. 1, tit. 3, n. 371 ; 1 Burge, Com. Conft. Laws, 42, 43.
A removal which does not contemplate an absence from the
former domicil for an indefinite and uncertain time is 'not a
change of it. But when there is a removal, unless it can be
shown or inferred from circumstances that it was for some'particular purpose, expected to be only of a temporary nature, or
in the exercise of some particular profession, office, or calling,
it does change the domicil. The result is, that the place of
residence is prin d facie the domicil, unless there be some motive
for that residence not inconsistent with -a clearly established
intention to retain a permanent residence in another place. The
facts in the case, place the residence of Kosciusko in France,
under the principle just stated.
It is averred in the bill that France was his residence. The
defendants deny it, admitting, however, that, from the time he
left the United States, he was a sojourner in France and Switzerland until he died. But they aver that he did not remove to.
France at any time of his life with the intention to make it his
permanent residence. And they further charge that he never did
abandon
the hope that circumstances would favor his'retarn to
P-1 -nd, when its pohtical condition would permit him to resume
his rights and duties as a citizen of it. Such an averment infiplies that he had voluntarily left Poland for France, without
having been forced to do so, and that his return depended upon
political contingencies, which might never happen, and which
we know did not occur. It places upon the defendants the
burden of proving the intention, the complainants having
shown, and the defendants having admitted, that he had primd
facie a domicil in France. They have not done so. There is
nothing in the record disproving the averment of his domicil in
France, and we must, from his own declarations and other

424

SUPREME COURT.
Ennis'et al. v. Smith et al.

proofs in the record, receive it as a fact that he was domiciled
there at the time of his death.
The error of the argument and of the averment against Kosciusko's domicil in France is this: that' they considered him a
forced exile from Poland, and that he had only made France his
asylum during banishment.
In such a case, it is true, a person .cannot be presumed to
have abandoned all hope of return to his country, whatever
length of time may have passed since lie was driven from it.
But Kosciusko is not placed in that predicament by any proof
in the case., Nor could such proof have been made; for it is
well known, when he was liberated by the Emperor Paul, that it
was done without restraint or inhibition of any kind. He was
.offered high military conmand and presents of princely amount,
which he declined to accept. He came to the United States,
and afterwards went voluntarily to France, where he lived for
fifteen years. He could have returned to Poland at any time,
if he had chosen to do so. Not having done so, the conclusion
ought to be that he abandoned his residence there for a residence
in France, which cannot be affected, as to its permanency, by any
event which might have happened to induce him to change it
again to the domicil of his origin. This is coincident with the"
fact that he had been made a French cit zen by a decree of the
National Assembly of France, in August, 1792. Knowing that
such a naturalization would not have the effect of investing him
with the privileges of a native-born citizen, if he did not become
domiciled in France, unless his residence there was expressly
dispensed with in the letters of naturalization, he went to France
to get a civil status which he bould not conscientiously enjoy in
.Poland whilst it continued to be under a foreign dominion.
Pothier, Tr. des Personnes, &c. P. 1, tit. 2, § 3; Denesart, tit.
Aubaine.
These general principles of jurisprudence in respect to domi-'
cil, by which Kosciusko's has been determined, are such as the
courts.of France would have ruled in this case.
Kosciusko's intestacy as to'the funds in controversy, and his
domicil having been determined, we will now state the law as
to the right of succession in such cases.
For several hundred years upon the continent, and in England,
from reported cases, for a hundred years, the rule has been, that
personal property, in cases of intestacy" is to be distributed by
the law of the domicil of. the intestate at the time of his death.
it has been universalfor $o long a time that it may now be said
to be a part of the Yusgehtiurn. Lord Thurlow speaks of itas such
in. the House of Lords, in the case of Bruce v. Bruce. Erskine,
in his Institutes of the Law of Scotland, (). 3, t. 9, § 4, 644,)

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

425

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

says, this rule is founded on the laws of nations. He says,
"1Whena Scotsman dies abroad sine animo remanendi,the legal
succession of his movable estate in Scotland must descend to
his next of kin according to the law of Scotland; and where a
foreigner dies in this cohntry sine anino rernanendi, the movables which he brought with him hither ought to be regulated,
not by the law of the country in which they locally were, bui
that of the proprietors patria, or domidil whence he came, and
whither he intends again to return. This rule is founded in the
law of nations, and the reason of it is the same in both cases,
that since all succession ab intestatio is grounded upon the pres'umed will of the deceased, his estate ought to descend t6 him
whom the law of his own country calls to the succession, as the
person whom it presumes to be most favored by the deceased."
The law of Scotland had been different in this particular, but
it was brought into harmony with the law of the rest of Europe
by the decision of the House of Lords, in Bruce v. Bruce, 6
Brown's Par. Cases, 550, 566; 2 Bos. & Pul. 226, 230, 231;
Lord Stair's Institutes, B. 3, tit. 8, § 5; Hogg & Lashley,
House of Lords, June 25th, 1788; Robertson on Personal
Success. 131; Omman v. Bin-ham, House of Lords, March 18,
1776; Colville & Landor v. 1Brown & Brown, Dict. Success.
Ap. p. 1, 4; W. & S.28.
The earliest case reported in the -- nglish books, is that of
Pipon v. Pipon, Am. 6, 27. Lord Hardwicke recognized in it
the rule that the personal estate, in cases of intestacy, followed
the person, and becomes distributable according to the law or
custom of the place where the intestate lived. Among other
reasons given by him is, that a contrary rule would be extremely
mischievous, ar. I would affect our commerce. No foreigner
could deal in our funds but at the peril of his. effects going according to our laws, and not those of his own country. He
reaffirmed the same in a few years afterwards, in Thorne v.
Watkins, 2 Ves. 35., Lord Kenyon did the same when he was
Master of the Rolls in 1787, in Klllpatrick v. Killpatrick, which
will be found cited in Robertson on Personal Succession, 116.
In 1790, the House of Lords acted upon the rule, in Bruce v.
Bruce, and two years afterwards, in Hogg v. Lashley. 'Many
cases followed in the English courts, and the only question since
has been, what was the domicil of the intestate at the time of
his death? In the United States the rule has been fully recognized. 14 Martin, Lou. 99; 3 Paige, 182; 2 Gill & John . 193,
224, 228.
The rule prevails, also, in the ascertainment of the person who
is entitled' to take as heir or distributee. It decides whether
primogeniture gives a right of preference, or an exclusive right
36*

426

SUPREME COURT,
Ennis et al. v. Smith at a].

to take the succession; whether a person is legitimate or not to
take the succession; whether the person shall take per stirpes or
per capita, and the nature and extent of the right of representa"tion. - Story's Conflict of Laws.
But it is objected, before the rule can be applied in this suit
against the defendants, that the complainants must prove what
the law of France. is for the distribution of the fund. It is said
that has not been done.
For this purpose, the -Code Civil of France was offered in
evidence, but it was objected to.
It is true, that the existence of a foreign law, written or unwritten, cannot be judicially noticed, unless it be proved as a
fact, by appropriate evidence.
The written foreign law may be proved, by a copy of the law
properly authenticated. The .unwritten must le b'y the p, rol
testimony of experts. As to the manner of authenticating ;he
law, there is no general rule, except this: that o proof shall be
-receiVed, "which presupposes better testimony behind, and attainable by the party." They may be verified by an oath, or by an exemplification of a copy, under the great seal of a State, or, by
a copy, proved to be a true copy by a witness who has examined
and compared it with the original, or by a certificate of an officer, properly authorized,'by law, to give the copy; which ceitifieate must be duly proved. But such modes of proof as have
been mentioned, are not to be' considered exclusive of others,
especially of codes of laws and accepted histories of the law of
a.country. In Picton's case, Lord Ellenborough said: " The
best writers furnish us with their statements of the law, and
that would certainly b.e good evidence upon the same principle
as thatwhich renders histories admissible. There is a case, continued Lord Ellenborough, in which the History of the Turkish
Empire, by Cantemir was received by the House of Lords, after
soime discussion. -I will, therefore, receive any book that purports to be a history of the common law of Spain. B. N. P.
248, 249; 30 How. St. Tr. 492; 2 Phil. Ev. 123; 1 Salk. 281:
Morris v. Harmer, 7 Pet. 554; 3 Cary, 178; 11 Clark & Fin.;
Russel's Peexage Cases; 3, Wend. 173. Lord Tenterden, in
Lacon v. Heggins, (Stark. Rep: 178,) admi.tted a copy of the
Code Civil of France, produced by ,the French Consul, who
stated that it was an authentic copy of the law of France, upon
which he acted in his office, and that it-was printed at the office
for printing the laws of France, and would be acted upon in the
French courts. In the Russel Peerage case, Lord Campbell
said: "The most authentic form of getting at foreign law, is to
have-the book which lays down the law. Thus, we have had
the Code Napoleon in our courts. It is better than to examine

DECEMBER TERM, 1'852.

427

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

a witness, whose memory may be defective, and who may have
a bias influencing his mind upon the law." The Supreme Court
of New York has held, that an unofficial copy of. the Commercial Code of France, could not be proved by the French Consul
residing at New York, though he stated it to be conformable to
the official publications; and that it was an exact copy of the
laws furnished by the French government to its Consul at New
York. Had it been an official copy, and sworn to be such, by
the Consul, it would have been received in evidence, as the Irish
Statutes were, in Jones v.Maffet, (5 Serg. & Rawle, 523,) where
they were sworn to by an Irish barrister, and that he received
them from the King's printer, in Ireland. In Church v. Hubbart, (2 Cranch,) this court said, that the edicts of Portugal,
offered in evidence, would have been admissible, if the copies
of them had been sworn to be true copies, by the American
Consul at Lisbon, instead of his having given his consular certificate, that they were true copies, because it was not one Pf
the functions of a Consul to authenticate foreign laws irr that
way.
The court say, " The paper offered to the court is certified to
be a copy compared with the original. It is impossible to suppose that this copy might not have been, authenticated by the
oath of the Consul, as well as by his certificate." It will be
seen, that what the 'court required, was a verification of the
original, upon oath, and that then the edicts would have been
admissible in evidence. They were municipar edicts, too, it.
should be remembered, and not one of those marine ordinances
of a foreign nation, oi a subject of common concern to all
nations, which may, according to the manner of its promulgation, be read as law, without other proof. Talbot v. Seeman,
1 Cranch, 1.
The rule of this court has always been, since those cases
were decided, "that the laws of a foreign country, designed
only for the direction of its own affairs, are not t6 be noticed by
other countries, unless proved as facts; and, that the sanction
of an oath is required for their establishment, unless they can
be verified-by some other such high authority, that the law respected not less than the oath of an individual."
The question in this case, is, has the Code Civil, which was
offered in evidence, a verification equivalent to the oath of an
individual ?
Opinions and-cases may be found in conflict-with the cases
cited, but, from a perusal of many of them, we find that they have
been formed and decided without a careful discrimination between
what should be the proof of 'foreign written and unwritten law;
and when written laws, either singly or in statute books, or in

428

SUPREME COURT
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al

codes, have been offered in evidence, without a sufficient authentication that they were official publications, by the government which had legislated them; or when written laws have
been offered, properly proved to be official, but which were
equivocal in their terms, and in the judicial administration of
which there have been, or may be, various interpretations, making it necessary to 3all in experts, as in cases of an unwritten
law, to state how the law offered in evidence is administered in
the courts of the country of which it is said to be the law. In
England, until recently, it was not doubted that a foreign
written law was admissible in evidence, when properly authenticated. But, in the Sussex Peerage case, 1844, (in 11 Clark &
Finnelly, 115,) several of the Judges gave their opinions upon
the subject. Lord Brougham, in that case, differed from Lord
Campbell, and said that the Code Napoleon ought not to be
received in an English court, and that before it could be received
from the boqk, that an expert, acquainted with the text and the
interpretation of it, must be called. And so it was ruled, afterwards, by Erle, Justice, in 1846, in Cocks v. Purdy, (2 C. &
K. 269,) in which fragments of a code were offered as evidence.
But his Lordship's opinion, and the case of Clark v. Purdy, must
be taken, subject to the facts upon which the point arose. In
the first, it was, whether Doctor Wiseman, who had been called
as a witness, could refer, whilst giving his evidence of the law
of Rome on the subject of marriage, to a book, whilst it was
lying by him. In the other case, fragments of laws were offered.
This point had been settled by Lord Stowell, in Dalrymple v.
Dalrymple, 2 Hagg. 54. Lord Brougham again expressed the
same opinion, in his sketch of Lord Sto~vell, in the second series
of the Statesmen of the Time of George 111., 76. But Lord
Langdale, who also sat -with the other Juage., in the Sussex
Peerage case, gave the rule, with its qualidcations,in the case
of the Earl of Nelson v. Lord Bridport, 8 Beav 527 After
stating the rule, coincidently with the opinion of Lord Brougham, he -says: " Such I conceive to be the general rule, but the
case to which it is applicable admits of great variety. Though
a knowledge of foreign laws is not to be imputed to the Judge,
you may impute to him such a knowledge of the general art of
reasoning, as Will enable him, with the assistance of the bar, to
discover wher6 fallacies are probably concealed, and in what
cases he ought to require testimony more or less strict. If the
utmost strictness was required, in every'case, justice. might often
stand still; and I am not disposed to say faat there may not be
cases, in which the Judge may not, without impropriety, take
upon himself to construe the words of a foreign law, and determine 'their application to the case in question; especially, if

DECEMBER TERM, 1852,

429

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.
there should be. a variance or want of clearness idi tba +sti.
mony."
Notwithstanding the differences in the cases cited, v,e think
that the true rule in respect to the admissibility of foreign law
in evidence, may be gathered from them. In our view it is this,
that a foreign written law may be received, when it is found in
a statute book, with proof that the book has been officially published by the government which made the law. Such is the
foundation of Lord Tenterden's ruling, in Lacen v. Higgens, 3
Starkie's Rep. 178. The case in 5 Sdrgeant & Rawle, 523, has
the same basis. Though there are other reasons for the admission of the laws of the States into the courts of the United
States as evidence, when they are officially published, yet they
are only received when the genuineness of the publication is
apparent. This court has so ruled in Hind v. Yattier, 5 Peters,
398, and in Owings v. Hull, 9 Peters, 607-625. It is true that
we are called upon, as Judges, to administer the laws of the
States in the courts of the United States, and that the States
of the Union are not politically foreign to each other, but there
is no connection between them in legislation, and we only take
notice of their laws judicially,.when they are found in the offcial
statute books of the State.
With these views, it remains for us to show that the Code
Civil, offered in evidence in this case by the complainants, to
prove their right to the succession of the intestate estate of
General Kosciusko, is authenticated in such a way that it may
be received by the court for the purpose for which it was offered.
It was sent to the Supreme Court, in the course of our national
exchanges of laws with France. It is one of fhe volumes of
the Bulletin des Lois at Paris L' imprimerie royal6, with -this indorsement, ," Les Garde des Sceaux de France la Court Supreme Des Etats Unis." Congress has acknowledged it by the
act, and the appropriation which was given to the Supreme
Court to reciprocate the donation. We transmitted to the'
Minister of Justice official copies of all the laws, resoiutions,
and treaties of the United States, and a complete series of the
decisions of this court. We do not doubt, whenever the question shall occur in the courts of France, that the volumes which
were sent by us will be considered sufficiently authenticated to
be used as evidence. The gift and the reciprocation of it, are
the fruits of the liberal age in which we live. We hope for a
continuance of such exchanges between France and the United
States, and for a like intercourse with all nations. Business
men, jurists, and statesmen, will readily appreciate its advantages. It will save much time and expense when questions
occur in the courts of different nations, involving the rights of

SUPRBME COUR T.
Ennis et al. v. Smith ot al.

foreigners, if the writen laws of every nation were verified in
all of them, by certified official publications to the governments
of each. In the now rapid transit of persbns and property, out
of the sovereignties to which they belong, into the different parts
of the world, such a verification would often speed and save the
rights of emigrants, sgjourners, and merchants.
We think that the Code Civil, certified to the court as .it is,
is sufficiently authenticated to make it evidence in this suit, and
that it would be so in any other case in which it may be offered.
We proceed to state the law from'it, applicable to the case.
It has been determined that the domicil of General Kosciusko
was in France at the time of his death, .that he died intestate
as -to his funds in the United States, and that they were to be
distributed according to the law of his domicil.
.It has been proved that he survived his parents, died without
issue, and that these complainants are the lineal descendants of
two of his sisters, one of whom died before her brother, and the
other'afterxVards.
The fact of their relationship, notwithstanding the objection
which was made to the proof of it, is sufficient. The proofs
are decrees of the Court of Nobility, of the Government of
Grodno, and, another of the Court of Kobryn, in the Russian
province of Lithuania. The originals are in the Orphans' Court,
and were filed in it, in the regular course of judicial proceeding,
Both of them are authenticated copies of judicial proceedings
in the courts from which they are brough;. The competency
of the jutisdiction of those courts, in the matters decided in the
decrees, is proved by witnesses skilled in the law of the goVernments of Lithuania. Lithuania-we know to be now a Russian
province, governed by its own laws, exept as they may be
modified by the Empdror's edicts. It is divided into three governments, Wilna, Grodno, and Minsk, with a Governor-General
over them. The decree of the Assembly of' the Department of
Grodno, is an exemplified copy of that malb on the 7th May,
1843, ii the case of the* heirs of Kosciusko, and contains the
genealogical chart of the descendants of the sisters of Kosciusko.
It is not a judgment inter partes,but a foreign judgment in
reim, and is evidence of the facts adjudicated against all the
world. The decree from the court of Kobryn is also proved to
be a judicial record. Fromh both we lea:n that the persons
named in the bill of the complainants, are the collateral kinsmen of General Kosciusko. By the laws of France, they may
take his estate by succession.
We shall reverse the decision of the court below, and direct
the funds in controversy to be divided among them, according
to the 750th article of the Code, which is, that in case of the

DECEMhBER

TERM, 1852.

431

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

previous decease of the father and mother of a person dead
withont issue, his brother and sister, or their descendants, are
called to the succession, to the exclusion of ancestors and other
collaterals.
All of the objections which were made against the rendition of
a decree in favor of the complainants, having been considered
and overruled, it only remains for us to announce the sum for
which the decree shall be given, and the proportions to be paid
by the defendants, as the sureties of Bomford, under the act of.
1846.
It has been h~retofore stated that thfese bonds were given under that act, to secure the amount then returned to the Orphans'
Court by the administrator, and such assets as he might afterwards receive in that character. In his ninth account, he
charges himself with a balance .from the eighth account of
$41,914.47, and after kiving the estate credit for the sum's subsequently received, and claiming .credits, he admits, that there
was due to the estate on the 7th of June, 1847, $43,504.40, including the stock of the Bank of Washmgton, which was after
his death transferred to Lewis Johnson, who became the administrator of ,Kosciusko, with the will nnnexed.,
We shall enter a decree against the defendants for the sum
of $37,924.40, with interest from the 7th June, 1847, until the
same shall be paid.
The said decree is to De binding upon the sureties, Carrico,
Stott, and George C. Bomford, and upon the sureties Gideon,
WVard, and Smith, jointly and severally in the proportion which
their respective bonds bear to the sum decreed, and the costs
which have accrued in this suit. But in the event that the
sureties in either bond do, not pay the sum decreed against
them, or any part thereol, then the sureties in the other bond
shall be answerable for and pay the same to'the extent of their
respective bonds.
. We shall also order a decree to be entered against the defendant, Lewis Johnson, not subjecting him to any costs from his
having been made a defendant in this suit, directinfg him to turn
over to the complainants the stock of the Bank of W¥ashington,
to which he is entitled as the administrator de bonis non of Kosciusko, and the dividends which have accrued thereon, allowing
to him out of the same, the costs incurred as administrator,
commissions, and such reasonable counsel fees as may have.been
paid by him for services in matters pertaining to this case, in the
Orphans' Court, and to this suit, after his account shall be filed,
and be credited to him in the Orphans' Court.

432

SUPIREME COURT.
Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
cecord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Disiiict of Columbia, holden in and for the County of 'Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, that the
decree of said Circiit Court dismissing the complainants' bill
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled.
And this court proceeding to render such decree as the said
Circuit Court ought to have rendered, doth order, adjudge and
decree, as follows:
First. That the legal domicil of Thaddeus Kosciusko, the party
under whom'the complainants below claim, was, at the period
of his'death, in 1817, in France.
&cond. That as to the property and fund in controversy, he,
the said Kosciusko, died intestate, his will of the 4th of June,
1816, in the proceedings mentioned, having revoked his prior
will of 5th of May, 1798, and 28th of June, 1806, and without
disposing of said fund, and the same not having been disposed
of by the will of 10th October, 1817.
Tldr& That the said property and fund is to be distributed
according to the law of France, the place of his domicil at the
time of his death.
Fourth. That by the said law-of said domicil, at said period, the
said property belongs in equal moieties to -,he collateral kindred
who were the lineal descendants of the two sisters in the case
mentioned, of said Kosciusko, and complainants in the bill mentioned, that is to say, one moiety thereof to Hippolitus Estho
and 1oman Fstho, grandsons of his sister Ann, and to Louisa
Narbut, her granddaughter, a widow, and in the proportions
between them of one half of said moiety to said Hippolitus
Estlio, and the other half of said moiety to said Ronian Estho
and Louisa Narbut, in equal shares,- and the other moiety
thereof to Vlandislaus Wankowieg, to Hippolitus Wankowieg,
Adam Byehowiec, and to Michael Szyrma, also complainants,
and in the proportions between them, as follows, that is to say,
to Viandislaus Wankowieg and Hippolitus 'rankowieg, each
of them one half of five sevenths, and of one third to each of
another seventh, and to Michael Szyrma, one third ef a seventh,
and to Adam Bychowiec, one seventh.
Fifth. That the defendants' sureties in the bond of the 7th
.May, 1846, for $20,000, in the proceedings mentioned, taken
under the authority of the act of Congress of the 20th of February, 1846, that is to 'say, James Carrico, Samuel Stott, and
George C. Bomford, and the other defendants' sureties in 'the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

433

Ennis et al. v. Smith et al.

other bond therein mentioned, also taken under said act of
Congress, and dated 4th of January, 1847, for $40,000, that is
to say, Jacob Gideon, Ulysses Ward, and Jonathan B. H. Smith,
are each, and to the extent hereinafter decreed, responsible to the
complainants for the amount also hereinafter 'decreed.
Si:th. It is further adjudged and decreed, that there is due,
and that the same be paid, by said defendants, to the complainants above named, in the proportions herein stated, the sum of
$37,924 i%with interest on said sum, at the rate of six per
centum, from the 7th day of June, 1847, till paid; that is to say,
that the said defendants, James Carrico, Samuel Stott, and
George C. Bomford, are jointly and severally bound to pay to
said complainants, of said $37,924 %, the sum of $12,641.46 ,
with interest thereon, as aforesaid, from the 7th of June,-1847,
till paid, and one third of the costs of this suit, in both courts,
and they are hereby ordered and decreed to 'pay the same. And
that the ,aid defendants, Jacob Gideon, Ulysses Ward, and
Jonathan B. H. Smith, are jointly and severally bound to pay to
said complainants, the~balance of said sum of .37,924 40, being
the sum of $25,282.93 ',with interest from the 7th of June,
1847, till paid, and two thirds of the said costs; and they are
hereby ordered and decreed to pay the same.
Seventh. And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that, in the event the gaid .sureties in the first bond, to -wit:
James Carrico, Samuel Stott, and George C. Bomford, do not
pay the said $12,641.46 2, with interest, and one third of the
costs, so decreed to be, paid by them, as aforesaid, and every
part thereof, that then the said Jacob Gideon, Ulysses Ward,
and Jonathan B. H. Smith, the sureties in thd second bond, as
aforesaid, are bound to pay the same, and every part thereof, to
the extent of the penalties of their said bond. And that, in the
event that the said Jacob Gideon, Ulysses Ward,,and Jonathai
B. H. Smith, the sureties in the second bond, do not pay the
said $25,282.93 1, with interest and two thirds of the costs, so
decreed to he paid by them, as aforesaid, and every part thereof;
that then the said James Carrico, Samuel Stott, and George C.
Bomford, the sureties in the first bond, as aforesaid, are bound
to pay the same, to the extent of the penalty of their said
bond.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the defendant, Lewis Jounson, administrator de bonis non of Thaddeus
Kosciusko, transfer and deliver over to said named complainants
the stock of the Bank of Washington, belonging to him, as such
administrator, amounting at its par value, to the sum of $5,580,
together with all the dividends which have accrued on the same,
less the costs of his administration, and reasonable counsel fees,
VOL.,XIV.

37

SUPREME COURT.
Winder v. Caldwell.

and such commissions, as administrator, as the Orphans' Court
may legally allow.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
sums of money and stock, so decreed to be paid and transferred
'by the abov.e-named defendants, be paid an-d transferred to the
above-named complainants, Hippolitus Estho, Roman Estho,
Louisa Narbut, Vlandislaus Wankowiez, Hippolitus Wankowiez, Adam Bychowiec, and Michael Szyrma, in the proportions
stated and adjudged in the preceding fourth clause of this
decree.
Eig'hth.. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
decrees pro confesso against Roman E;stho, Louisa Narbut,
born Estho, Thadea Emilie Wilchelmnine Zeltner, Maria Charlotte Julia Marguerette Zeltner, Bonnisant Pere, General Baszkoyski, Emilie Zeltner, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Zeltner, Zavier
Amieth, Dr. She~rer, Miss Ursula Zeltner, and Kosciusko Armstrong, by the said Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed.
And lastly. It is ordpred, adjudged, and decreed, that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, witl directions to that court to carry the aforesaid decree
of this court into effect.

WILLIAM,

H.

WINDER,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.
-CALD WELL.

ANDIEw D

Where a scire fadas was issued to enforce a lien upon 8, house under the lien law of
the District of Columbia, there was no necessity to file a declaration.
Where the contract between the owner and the builder, (who was also the carpenter.)
stipulated for a forfeiture per diem in case the carpenter should delay the work, the
court below ought to have allowed evidence of such delay to be given to the jury
by the defendant, under a notice of set-off, and also evidence that the work and4
materials found and provided upon and for the building, were defective in quality
and character, and far inferior in value to what the contract and specification called
for.
A, master builder, undertaker, or contractor, who undertakes by contract with the
owner to erect a building, or some part or portion thereof, on certain terms, does
not come within the letter or spirit of the act of Congress passed March 2, 1833,
.(4 Stat, at Large 659,) entitled an Act to secure to mechauics and others, payment
for labor done and materials furnished in the erection of buildings in the District
of Columbia.

Tins case: was brought up, by writ of error, from the. Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
It was an action of scire ftcias, brought by Caldwell against
Winder, upon a claim filed under the act of Congress passed

