SUPREME .CQURT.

268

Trustees for Vincennes UniVersity vs State of Indiana.

power to seek their rights under that contract, whatever they
were.
If mere tardiness in asserting their pretensions, were all that
could be imputed to the appellants, this, of itself, would place
them in a position which could not commend them the countenance of courts of justice; but, this delay is by no means the
only or the least imputation, resting upon the course of the
appellants; -for we see that, after calling upon the appellees for
satisfacti6n of their demand, the appellants abandoned that
demand, proclaiming thereby to the representatives of Goree (if
indeed they were then in possession of the subject,) permission
to apply it in conformity with the will of their testator. The
appellants, it is not pretended, ever held or claimed the subject
in dispute, except in their representative capacity, and in trust
for the*creditors and legatees of their testator. In the interval
between the abandonment of their first z.nd the institution of
their second demand by the complainants, those executors have,
in fulfilment of their trust, handed over the subject to those for
whom they held it under the will; have accounted with the
authorities to whom they were responsib'-e, and have received
from those authorities a full acqaittance. Under these circumstances, to hold them liable to the demands pf the appellants,
would in effect be to render penal the regular discharge of their
duty.
This aspect of the cause we regard as fully warranting the
decree of the. District Court, dismissing the bill of the complainants - that decree is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript ot ne record
from the, District Court of the United States for the Mliddle
District of Alabama, and was argded by ecunsel. On considera
lion whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this cuurt. that the decree of the said 'District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

THE

BOARD

OF TRUSTEES

FOR THE VINCENNES.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

v.

UNIVERISITY)

THE STATE OF INDILNA.

In.1804, Conress passed an act, (2 Stat. at Large, 27,) "making provision.for the

disposal of the public lands in the Indiana Territory, and for otter purposes," in

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.
which it reserved from sale a township in each one of three districts to be located
by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the use of a seminary of learning.
In i806, the Secretary of the Treasury located a particular township in the Vincennes
district, for the use of that district; and when, in 1806. the territorial government
incorporated a "Board of Trustees of the Vincennes University," the grant made
in 1804 attached t6 this Board, although, for the two preceding years, there had been
no grantee in existence.
Under the ordinanco of 1787, made applicable to Indiana by an act of Congress, the
territorial government of Indiana had power to pass this act of incorporation.
The language of the act of Congress, by which Indiana was admitted into the Union,
did not vest the above township in the legislature of 'the State.
The Board of Trustees of the University was not a public corporation, and had no
political powers. The donation of land for its support was like a donation by a
private individual; and the legislature of the State could not rightfully exercise any
power by which the trust was defeated.

Tins case was brought up froia -the Supreme Court of the
State of Indiana, by a writ of error, issued uander the 25th section of the Judiciary "Act.
The manner in which the case arose, and the laws relating to
it, are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by JiIr. Judah, with whom was IlIr. D2unhzm,
for the plaintiffs in error, and 11r. 0. I . mrnith, for the State of
/
Indiana.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contended:
1. That the effect of the reservation in the act of Congress
passed in 1804, was a grant.
The defendant, and Judge Smith, of the Supreme: Court of
Indiana, assert that this is not a grant, because there was not a
grantee in esse; and that the reservation could only become
offectual to pass the title by an appropriation, to be made by
Congress, or under its authority.
In Wilcox v. Jackson, (13 Peters, 498,) this court, at page
512, define "appropriation"
as follows: "That is nothing
more nor less than setting apart the thing for some particular
use." And afterwards, in the same case, (page 513,) the court
say: " But we go further, and say, that, whensoever a tract of
land shall once'have been legally appropriated to any purpose,
from that moment, the land thus appropriated I ecomes severed
from the mass of public lands, and that no subsequent law, or
proclamation, or sale, would be cofistrued to embrace it, or operate upon it, although no reservation was made of it."
Was the Gibson township so appropriated? It Was reserved
for a special purpose. It -waslocated in pursuance to the reservation. Was there any thing more necessary to set it apart for
the particular use ?
But, say the counsel for the State and Judge Smith, though
23*

270

SUPREME COURT.
Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

appropriated, it.was not granted, because there was no grantee
in esse.
If, as a general rule, it is true, that there cannot be a grant
without a grantee in esse, it is as true that there are exceptions.
A grant, in case of a charity, or of the dedication of land to
a public use, is good without a grantee in esse. Town of Paulet
v. Clark, 9 Cr. 292; Beaty v. Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566; Cincinnati v.
White, 6 Pet. 435; and in Vidal v. Girard's Executors, 2 How.%
127; at pages 192, 193, it is stated, that donations given to the
establishment of colleges, &c., are charities in the sense of, the
common law.
2. That the territorial legislature had the power to apply to
use the township appropriated by Congress, and did apply it by
the act of iricorporation.
The counsel for the State of Indiana made the following
points :
Filrst. The complainants have no such corporate existence as
would authorize and empower them to sue. 2 B. A. 482, 'note
a, last edition; and see the extracts from their records in evidence.
Second. The suit is barred by the statutp of limitations.
R. S. 1843, pp. 795, 799; Act of 1845- 6, explanatory of iRev.
Stat.
Third. The suit is barred by twenty yeats adverse possession,
as the State, and those claiming under tie State. by purchase
and lease, had held adversely more than twenty years before any
suit was brought by the 'University to recover the possession,
even if the former actions which were dismissed could aid this
suit, which is denied.
Fourth. The case does not come within th" principles of an
executory devise, and would not avail the complainants even if
it were an executory devise. 17 Serg & Rawle, 88; 5 H. & J.
392; 9 Ohio, 203; 12. Mass. 537; 16'Pick. 107; 3 Pet. 101; 4
Dana, 355; 3 Pet. 146; 9 Ves. 399; 9 Mass. 419; 7 Ves. 69;
9 Ves. 399; 10 Ves. 522.
Fifth. The act -of Congress of 1804, was a mere reservation
from sale, to be afterwards appropriated to educational purposes,
and neither vested the same in the 'compldinants, nor divested
the United States of the legal title. P. I,. L. 104; 2 McLean
R. 416; P. L. L. 2d part, 69; 1 Johns. R. 303; 9 Johns. R. 74;
Wright's Ohio R. 144.
Sixth. The case does not embrace the principles of a dedication to public or pious uses, so as to sustain this claim. 2 Pet.
566; 6 Pet. 431, 498; 6 Paige, 639; 6 Wrend. 667; 4 Paige,
610; 7 Ohio, 219..

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

271

Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

&venth. The act of Congress of 1816, vested the legal title
to these lands in the State of Indiana, as a trustee, with power
to direct to what object or institution, being " seminary of
learning," the trust fund shall be applied; and the State, having
designated the State University, at Bloomington, as the "seminary of learning" to which the trust fund shall go, the complainants have no claim whatever, either in law or equity, against the
State, the trustee of the fund. See act of Congress of 1816,
act of 1818, and the several acts for the admission of the other
new States into the Union.
The doctrines of estoppel, in their most rigid appli.Eih.
cation, can only permit the complainants, to retain what they
have already received, and for this the State will not contend.
.Ninih. In any and. all events, the funds were public funds, and
the legislature of the State had competent authority to change
their direction to any other seminary of learning at will. Had
the funds been the private funds of the complainants, and had
they been vested with them, there might have been some pretext
for the assumption, that the acts of the Indiana legislature, endowing the State University, were unconstitutional. 4 Wheat.
430; 4 Pet. Con. Rep. 536.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the c6urt. xn
This case is before us on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Indiana, under the 26th section of the
judiciary Act of 1789.
The bill was filed under an act of the legislature of Indiana,
of 1846, which authorized the trustees of the Vincennes University to file a bill in.ehancery, in the nature of an act of disseisin
against the State, to try their right to the seminary township in
Gibson county. The facts stated in the bill are substantially as
follows:
The Indiana Territory was organized by the act of Congress
of the 7th of May, 1800, with the powers to legislate given by
the ordinance of 1787. On the 26th of March, 1804, an act of
Congress was passed, for the survey and disposal of the public
lands, by which three land districts were established, and an
entire township in each was reserved for the use of a seminary
of learning, to be located by the. Secretary of the Treasury.
The boundaries of the Vincennes land district .were the same
as desigiated in a late treaty with the Wabash Indians. The
Secretary of the Treasury, by letter of the 10th of October,
1806, locafed township No. 2 south range, No. 11 west, in Gibson county, for the use of a seminary in that district.
The act of the 29th November, 1806, and the supplement
thereto, passed the 17th of September, 1807, established the

272

SUPREME COURT.
Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

Vincennes University, and incorporated the same by the name
of " The Board of Trustees of the Vincennes University." The
corporation was duly organized at Vincennes, on the 6th of
December, 1806, under the act, aid has since continued. The
second section of the act of incorporaticn, after reciting the
seminary lands under the act of Congrest, provided, "tha tthe
trustees, in their corporate capacity, or a majority of them,
should be legally authorized to sell, transfer, convey, and dispose
of any quantity, not exceeding four thousand acres, of said land,
for the purpose of putting into immediate use'the said university;
and to have on rent the remaining part of said township to the
best advantage, for the use of said public school or university."
In virtue of the above acts, the complainants became possessed of the said township of land, and so continued during the
territorial government. The same rights and powers in -the
corporation, as they existed under the territorial government, were
secured by the 1st section of the 12th article of the constitution
of Indiana. Between the year3 1806 and 1820, complainants
sold 4,000 acres of the land, and- rented a part of the residue.
A college building was constructed by them at Vincennes.
On the 22d January, 1820, a jbint resolution of the legislature of Indiana was approved, appointing a superintendent for
the seminary township, with power to rent the improved lands,
to collect the rents, and to account to the State. And, on the
2d of January, 1822€ the legislature appointed commissioners to
sell the lands in that township. This seems to have been done,
on the assumption that the board of trustees had expired
through their own negligence. , The lands were sold, and the
money received -was paid into the State Treasury. A part of
the consideration money on this sale had not been collected
when this bill was filed.
The complainants pray that an account may be taken of the
proceeds, and interest of the sales of the lands and the rents
received by the state; and that the same may be paid to the
complainants, &e.
The defendant's answer denies the.equity of the bill, and relies
upon the statute of limitations. It also denies that the territorial
government had any power to incorporate the plaintiffs; that the
title remained in the United States, it never having been appropriated to any special, grantee; that under the act of Congress
of the 19th of April, 1816, for the admission of the State of Indiana into the. Union, the title to the land in question became
vested in the State.
The act of Congress, which organized the territoryof Indiana,
provided, that so much of the ordinance of 1787 for the government of the territory of the United States north-west of the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1852.

273

Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

Ohio River, as relates to the generally assembly therein, and
prescribes the powers thereof, shall be in force, and operate in
the Indiana Territory, &c. The ordinance declares, "that the
Governor and Judges. or a majority of them, shall adopt and
publish in the district, such laws of the original States, criminal
and civil, as may be necessary, and best suited to the circumstances of the district, and report them to Congress, from time
to time; which laws shall be in force in the district until the
organization of the general assembly therein, unless disapproved
of by Congress." Pr6vision is made in the ordinance for the
.appointment of a legislative council, and it is .then provided,
that "the Governor, legislative council, and house of representatives, shall have authority to make laws, in all cases, for the good
government of the district, not repugnant to the principles and
articles in this ordinance."
Under the ordinance, the legislature of the territory was
vested with general legislative powers, regtricted only by the
articles contained in that instrument. It had power to grant
an act 6f incorporation, with all* the functions necessary to
effectuate its objects. There can be no question, therefore, that
the corporate p-owers vested in the plaintiffs, by the legislature
of the territory, were legitimately conferred. -And these powers
were not affected, and could not be affelcted by the constitution
of the State. It provided that "all rights, contracts, and claims,
.both as respects individuals and bodies corporate, shall continue
as if no change had taken place in this government."
If the Board of Trustees, by a failure to elect when vacancies
occurred, or through any other means, became reduced to a less
number thar was authorized to act by the charter, the corporation was not thereby dissolved. In such a case, its franchises
would be suspended only, until its functions were restored by
legislative action. This was done by the act of the legislature
of the 17th of February, 1838. In that act the ten-itorial act
of incorporation is recognized, the existence of six of the trustees admitted, the vacancies supplied, and the board, thus constituted, was organized.. If, therefore, the corporation by 11 iser had become liable to a judicial process of forfeiture, after
this act, such a procedure could not be instituted.
The proviso in the act of 1838, could only operate, so as to
secure any rights which the State might be supposed to have,
in the Gibson township.
The reservations for the seminaries of learning and for schools,
are made in the same terms, and in some respects, must rest on
the same principles. In all the Western States, north of the
Ohio, similar reserves for schools and seminaries of learning
have been made. In the case of Wilcox v. Jackson, (13 Peters,

274

SUPREME COUR T.
Trustees -for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

498,) this court held, that a reservation set lipart the thing reserved
for some particular use; and that "whensoever a tract of land
shall once have been legally appropriated to any purpose, it
becomes separated from the public lands.'
In the States where school lands have been reserved, the legislatures have enacted laws to carry out and effectuate the benign
policy of the general government. Special authority has been
given to individuals elected, in the respective townships, to lease
the lands, sue for rents, &c., exercising, to some extent, corporate powers. The citizens within the t6wnship are the beneficiaries of the charity. The title to these lands has never been
considered as vested in the State; and it has no inherent power
to sell them, or appropriate them to any other purpose than for
the benefit .of schools. For the exercise of the charity under
the laws, the title is in the toivnship. No patent has been
issued by the Federal government, in such cases, as it has not
been considered necessary. For the sale -of school lands, the
consent of Congress has been obtained, as that changes the
character bf the fund.
The title to the seminary lands, it is contended, did not vest
in complainants,, as they are not ,named in the reservation, and
had no existence for two years afterwards.
This question is not to be decided, on the principles which
apply to an ordinary grant, from one individual to another.
The title partakes of the nature of an executory devise, or a
dedication of property io public use. It. the case of Inglis v.
The Sailors' Snug Harbor, (3 Peters, 126,) this court say, " What
objection can there be to this as a valid executory devise, which
is such a disposition of lands, that thereby no estate vests at the
death of the devisor, but only on some future contingency?" If
the words, "reserved for the use of a seminary of learning,"
were indorsed on a town plat when made, there is no doubt that
the title would vest in a corporation created afterwards fot the
estab.lishment and government of such an institution. If it be
reserved for the public use, the title would vest in the public, so
soon as a public should exist in the town. Trustees of the
McIntyre Poor School v. The Zanesville Canal Company, 9
Ohio Rep. 203; Cincinnati v. The Lessee of 'White, 6 Peters,
Rep. 435; Barclay et al. v. Howell's Lessee,6 Peters, Rep. 498;
New Orleans v. the United States, 10 Peters, Rep. 662.
Land, at common law, may be granted to pious uses, before
there is a grai.,ee in existence competent to take it; and in the
mean time, the fee will oe in abeyance. The Town of Pawlet
v. Clark et al. 9 Cranch, 292; Witman v. Lex, 17 Serg. &
Rawle, 88.
"Whea a corporation is to be brought into existence by some

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

future acts of the corporators, the franchises remain in abeyance,
until such acts are done; and when the corporation is brought
into life, the franchises instantaneously attach to it. There is
no difference between the case of a grant of lan I or franchises
to an existing corporation, and a grant to a corporation brought
int6 life for the very purpose of receiving the grant. As soon
as it is in esse, and the franchise and property become vesfed
and executed in it, it is as much an executed contract, as if its
prior existence had been established for a century." Dartmouth
College v. Wroodward, 4 Wheat. 518.
There was no uncertainty in this appropriation. The township was designated, and the purpose tated, for which it was
reserved. And there can be no doubt, from the authorities, thatthe right vested, so soon as a capacity was given to the corporation to receive it; prior to this it remained in the federal government. This is the settled doctrine on that subject.
If; on general principles, the title to this township cannot be
considered as vested in the State of In4iana, it is contended it
so vested by the provision in the sixth section of thie act of the
19th of April, 1816, which admitted the State into the Union.
The provision is, "That one entire township, which shall be
designated by the President of the United States, in addition
to the one heretofore reserved for that purpose, shall 'be reserved
for the use of a seminary of learning, and vested in the legislature of the said State, to be appropriated solely to the use of
such seminary by the said legislature."
The words of the act seem to be so clear as to admit of but
one construction. A township, in addition to the one formerly
reserved, is appropriated and vested in the legislature. The
former township is only referred to, to show that the one then
appropriated was in addition to it. The Gibson township had
before been appropriated. A part of it had ber'a sold, and a
part was held under leases. 'Whether we regard the words
used, or their grammatical arrangement, the intention of Congress seems to be clearly expressed.
In the act of the 18th of April, 1818, for the admission into
the Union, of the State of Illinois, a different phraseology is
used in giving an additional township to the State. k,That
thirty-six sections, or one entire township, shall be designated
by the President of the United States, together with the one
heretofore reserved for that purpose, shall be reserved for the
use of a seminary of learning, and vested in the legislature of
the State," &c. Here both townships are as clearly vested in
the State, as that one only is vested under the act admitting
Indiana into the Union.
By this latter act, the Gibson Township Seminary was recognized, and its present government sanctioned.

276

SUPREME COURT.
Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

It is argued that this is a public corporation, and that, consequently, the legislature of Indiana have a right to modify its
charter, or abolish it, at its discretion. If the position assumed
be sustainable the consequence stated will not be controverted.
In the case of *Dartmouth College v. Woodward, (4 Wheat.
629,) Chief Justice Marshall says: "If the act of incorporation
be a grant of political power, if it.create a civil institution to be
employed in the administration of .the government, or if the
funds of the college be public property; or if the State of New
Hampshire, as a government, be alone interested in its transactions, the subject is one in which the legislature of the State
may act, according to its own judgment, unrestrained by any
limitation of its power, imposed by the Constitution of the
United States." Again, he says, (634,) " So far as respects its
funds, it is a private corporation. Do its objects stamp on it. a
-different character? Are the trustees and professors public
officers, invested with any portion of poli;ical power, partaking
in any degree in the administration of civil government, and
performing duties which flow from the sovereign authority?"
He continues: " The character of civil institutions does not
grow out of their incorporation, but out of the manner in which
they are formed, and the objects for which they are created."
" The right to change them-is not founded on their being incorporated, but on their being the instruments of government,
created for its purposes." " The trustees are not public officers,
nor is it a civil institution, participating in the. administration
of the government; but h charity school, or a seminary of' edacation, incorporated for the preservation of its property, and the
perpethal application of that property to the objects of its
creation."
In the same case, Mr. Justice Story says: " Public corpora+ions are generally esteemed such as exist for public political
purposes only, such as towns, cities, parishes and counties; and,
in many respects, they are so, although they involve some private interests; but, strictly speaking, pvublic corporations are
such only as:are founded by the government for public purposes,
where the whole interests belong to the government"
The seminary township in question, was not a donation from
the State, but from the United States. It was reserved and
designated out of the public lands, before they were offered for
sale, and consequently so munificent an endowment for a
literary institution must have increased the value of the public
lands, in that part of the State, and made them more desirable.
And this considerationi, no doubt, induced Congress to have
designated, for seminary purposes, a township of land in each
land dIstict. Every purchaser of the public lands, in each dis-

DECEA1B)R TERM, 1852.

277

Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

trict, acquired an interest in the reservation. And if these reservations had been judiciously managed, they would have consti.
tuted a fund, at this time, of at least two hundred thousand
dollars each. This would have afforded the means of educating,
in each land district, as many students, free of charge, as would
ordinarily desire classical instruction. Such an advantage was
too obvious to be overlooked, or not to be appreciated, by the
purchasers of the public lands in these districts.
The legislative power of the Territory and State, in advaucing the public interests, was bound to afford all the fadilities
necessary to carry out and secure the benign objects of, Congress, in making these township reservations. This was done
by a wise and liberal act, in regard to the Gibson township.
The corporators were vested with all the necessary powers to
carry out the trust. And for the purposes of the trust, the title
became vested in them, as soon as they acquired a capacity to
r( ceive it. This corporation had no political powers, and could,
iL no legal sense, be considered as officers of the State. They
were not appointed by the State. Their- perpetuity depended
upon the exercise of their own functions; and they were no
n ore responsible for the performance of their duties, than other
corporations established by the State to execute private trusts.
So far as regards the trust confided to the complainants, there
is nothing which, by construction, can make it a public corporation. The donation in no sense proceeded from the State. It
was made by the Federal government, and is no more subject
to State power, than if it had been given by an individual for
the same purpose. An act of incorporation being necessary,'
would not be withheld to give effect to a .private donation of
land, for the purpose of establishing a literary institution. Its
benefits would be enjoyed by the public generally, but this
would not make it a public corporation.
The complainants, by accepting and exercising their corporate
powers, acquired certain rights, and made certain cbntracts,
which could not be impaired by the legislature. They constituted an eleemosynary corporation, in 'which the State has no
property, and can exercise no power to defeat the trust. But
this has been done by the legislature, not only by appointing an
agent to collect the funds due to the corporation, and paying
them into the State treasury; but, by selling the lands, they
have diverted the fund, for the preservation and management of
which, the corporation was instituted. This was an extraordinary proceeding, and was wholly without authority. The result
is, that the complainants are stript of their powers, and the
University which they established, with the sanction of the
legislature, is left without revenue.
VOL. XIV.

24

278

SUPREME C OUIT.
Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indian.a.'

The dismissal of the bill, in this case, by the Supreme Court
of the State of Indiana, was erroneous, and it is hereby re.versed; and-the cause is transmitted to that court for further
proceedings..
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON, and Mr.
Justice DANIEL dissented.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
I dissent fr~m the opinion of the court.
I do not propl -e to enter fully into the argument of the case,
because I concur entirely in the opinion of the Supreme Court
of the State, which is set out at large in the record; and shall
therefore briefly state the principles upon which my own opinion
is founded.
1. It must be admitted that the State curt had no jurisdiction in this case bey6nd that which the lhw of the State authorized it to exercise. And in revising their judgment, our
jurisdictipn is equally limited. The law, under Which this suit
was brought authorized the Board of Trustees of the Vincennes
University, to'file a bill in chancery against the State, in the
nature of an action. of disseisin, for the purpose of trying the
right of the trustees to the lands in question.
The trustees, therefore, are not entitled to a decree in their
favor, unless they can show a legal title to the lands, such as
.would enable them to maintain the common-law writ of entry,
sur diqseisin, that is, they must be seised of the lands in feesimple.
2. Indiana was created a separate territory, and its powers
and rights, as a territorial government, defined by the act of 1800.
This act certainly gave no power over the public lands, for it
hds no reference to that subject. It merely establishes the territorial government.
The act of 1804, under which the lands in question were reserved for the use of a seminary of learning, has no reference
to the powers or duties of the territorial government, in relation
to the lands reserved, or to any thing else. It merely provides
for the sale of the public lands in the territory, reserving from
sale this and other portions of them. But it does not transfer
them to the territorial government which was then in existence.
It retains them. I do not see how these laws, taken separately
or together can be construed to give the territorial government
a right to disoose of them in any way, or divest the title which
the United States h6ld; and which this law directed to be retained.
3. This reservation from sale, as well as the reservation of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

279

Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

school sections in the several townships, undoubtedly dedicated
them to the uses for which they were reserved; and they cannot be appropriated by the State to any other purpose. But
the fund dedicated belonged to the United States, and they
alone had the power to transfer it, and to designate the body
by whom the trust, created hy the act of Congress, should be
administered. The law of the State complained of,, does not
attempt to appropriate the land to a different purpose from that
to which it was dedicated. It has been sold and conveyed by
t0 State, and the proceeds appropriated to th- support of a
sew.rnary of learning in the State. And the only question before us is, whether the trustees have the legal title to these lands,
and can recover them back from the persons to whom they were
sold by the State, for the purpose of appropriating them to a
different seminary.
4. The act of the territorial government of 1806, incorporating
this board of trustees, does not grant nor profess to grant the
lands to the board. And if it had done so, the act would have
been void and inoperative, because the territorial legislature had
no right to grant lands which belonged to the United States;
nor to exercise any power over them, without the authority of
Congress.
5. The act of Congress of 1816, by which Indiana was admitted into the Union as a State, grants these lands to the State
for the purpoes for which they were reserved. The State is
made the trustee.
My brethren have put -a different construction on this clause
of the law of 1816, and regard this grant as extending only to
thd additional township mentioned in the law. But with every
respect for their opinion, it appears plaii to me that this township, as well as the additional one, are both granted to the State
by Congress. And I am confirmed in this opinion, because, with
all the research I have been able to make, I have not found a
s-ngle instance in which lands reserved in a territory for the purposes of education, were not afterwards granted to the State, as
the trustee to administer the trust, the school sections in the
several townships, as well as others.
6. Upon these grounds, I think the plaintiffs in error have not
a legal title to this land, and had no right to sell or dispose of
it, nor in any way to control the proceeds; and that under the
grant from Congress, in the act of 1816, the title and the right
to administer the trust was vested in the State of Indiana.
7. The error in the opinion, appears to me to have arisen from
regarding the reservation from sale for the purposes of education,
as divesting the legal title of the United States, and putting it
in abeyance, until some new body was brought into existence,

280

.SUJREME

COURT.

Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

capable of taking the title as grantee, and administering the
trust.
It is not necessary to this opinion to discuss the doctrine of
abeyance, upon which so much learning and talent has ben
displayed by Mr. Fearne, in his treatise on Contingent Remainders. It is sufficient to state under what circumstances the title,
in'the eye of the law, is said to be in abeyance. And Comyns,
in his Digest; tells us, that "when the fee or freehold of the land
is not vested in any one, but stands solely in consideration of
law, it is said to be in abeyance, or in nwbibus."
I cannot regard the title to lands reserved from sale by Congress, for the purposes of education, as stand.ing in this condition.
A reservation is iot a grant. 'It does not pass the title out of
the United Shttes, ,bt.t leaves it where it was before. The uniform- practice of the government, and of ju:dicial decision also,
appears tb have proceeded'on the ground that the title remained
in the United States, until it was afterwards transferred by the
authority of Congress. It is not usual, it is true, to issue patents foi these lands, but they have been granted by acts of Congress, which the courts have always recognized as valid conveyances. And I am not aware of any case in which the
validity of these conveyances of reserved lands has been doubted
by the court; or in which it has been suggested that the title
was out of the United States, and in abeyance from the time
of the reservation. If such be the result of a reservation, the
subsequent conveyance of Congress is of no value. And who
is to protect the reserved lands from trespasses and depredations,
whl.e the title is in abeyance?
In the case of Gaines and others v. Nicholson and others, reported in 9 *Howard, 356, the title to a section reserved for
schools, was the matter in dispute. It did not, it is true, involve
the question now before us. But it appears, in that case, that
the section-was one of those reserved for schools in the diflerent
townships in the Territory of -Mississippi, hy an act of Congi'ess
passed in-803; and that afterwards, as late as the year 1815,
*another act was passed, authorizing the County Court of each
county in the territory to lease the sections so reserved, in order
to improve them, and to apply the rents to purposes of education within the township; and also to proceed and recover
damages against any personis found trespassing upon them.
And this law contains an express provision that every lease, in
virtue of this act, shall cease to have any force or effect after the
first .day' of January next, succeeding the establishment of a
State gOvernment. Tle trustees of the schools, who were parties to this suit, were appointed under a law of the State, and
Claimed under that appointment. The point in. dispute, was

DBCEXBER T'ERM, 1852.

281

Trustees for Vincennes University v. State of Indiana.

whether the opposing party had not a right prior and superior
to the State, by virtue of an Indian reservation, made in the
treaty by which the territory had been ceded to the United
States. And in deciding the question, this court treated the
act. of Congress granting the land to the State, and also the
law of the State appointing the Commissioners, as valid and
constitutional; and it is not suggested, in the opinion, that the
inhabitants of the township had a legal title to the school section, or any right to appoint Commissioners to control and administer the .fund,unless authorized to do so by a law of the
State. In the case before us, therefore, if the act of 1816 does
not vest the title in the State, it still remains in the United
States, and not in the trustees.
8. If, however, these lands.were conveyed to the trustees, by
virtue of the act of the territorial legislature of 1806, ye.t they
were but agents of the State, without any private individual interests, and have no ground therefore for this proceeding in equity
against the State. The whole fund ,was created by the public
for public purposes. And in the case of the Dartmouth College,
(4 Wheat. 629,) the court said, "If the act of incorporation be a
grant of political' power, if it create a civil institution to be
employed in the administration of the government, or if the
funds of the college be public property, or if the State of New
Hampshire, as a government, be alone interested in its transactions, the subject is one in which the legislature of the State
may act according to its own judgment, unrestrained by any
limitation of its power imposed by the Constitution of the
United States." Here the funds are contributed entirely by the
public for a public.purpose, and these appellants have no private
individual interest, and allege none in their bill in behalf of
themselves or others, which entitles them to maintain a suit
against the State. They are public agents for a public purpose,
and nothing more, and so describe them'selves. The laws of the
State, which directed the appropriation of the fund to the uses
for which it was dedicated, are therefore constitutional and valid,
under the decision above referred to, and in my opinion the
decree of the Supreme Court of the State ought to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same
24*

282

SUPREM E COURT.
Christy v. Scott et al.

is hereby, remanded to the said Supreme Court, in order that
such further proceedings may be had therein, in conformity to
the opinion of this court, as to law and jubtice may appertain.

WILLIAM CHRISTY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM T. SCOTT;
WILLIAM CHRISTY v. JAMES D. FINLEY; WILLIAM CHRISTY
V. WILLIAM YOUNG; WILLIAM CHRISTY V. HII4Am HENLY.
In Texas, the technical forms of pleading, fixed by the cemmon law, are dispensed
with, but the principles which regulate the merits of i trial by ejectment and the
substance of a plea of title to such an action, are preserved.
Therefore, where the plaintiff filed a petition alleging that he was seised in his demesne as of fe- of land from which the defendant had ejEcted him, and the defendant
pleaded, that if thc plaintiff had any paper title, it was under a certain grant which
was not valid, this plea was bad.
So also ias a plea denying the right of the plaintiff to receive his title, becau e he
was 'not then a citizen of Texas. These pleas would have been appropriate oqjections to the plaintiff's title when produced upon the trial.
So also where, under a plea of the statute of limitations, the defendant claimed certain.land by metes and bounds, and disclaimed all not included within them. There
is nothing to show that the land so included, was part of the land claimed by the
!laintiff.
p
.So also where the plea was in substance that the plaintiff had no good title against
Texas, no title in the defendant being shown. For the action may have been
maintainable, although the true title was not in the plaintiff.

THESE four cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the
District Court of the United States for the District of Texas.
They all involved the same principles, and were covered by
the decision in Scott's case. It is necessary, therefore, to set
out the pleadings in that case.
Christy filed his petition, alleging that he was seised in his
demesne as of fee, in a certain tract or parcel of land, (which he
described by metes and bounds,) from which Scott ejected him;
and praying judgment for damages, and for the recovery of the
lands.
Scott filed the following answer And now comes the said
defendant, and answering the petilion of tie plaintiff, says, that
he denies all and singular the allegations in the said petition,
and prays that the plaintiff be held to strict proof of the same.
2. And as to the trespasses and ejectmonts, or either or any
of them, complained of by [the] plaintiff in his petition, the
'defendant says he is not guilty, and puts himself upon the
country, &c.
8. And the defendant further Pays, that as to the pretended
grant or title of the plaintiff to the land described in his petition,
(if aniy paper title he has) the same bears date, to wit, the
trentieth day of September, A. D. 1885, and the land described

