282

SUPREM E COURT.
Christy v. Scott et al.

is hereby, remanded to the said Supreme Court, in order that
such further proceedings may be had therein, in conformity to
the opinion of this court, as to law and jubtice may appertain.

WILLIAM CHRISTY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM T. SCOTT;
WILLIAM CHRISTY v. JAMES D. FINLEY; WILLIAM CHRISTY
V. WILLIAM YOUNG; WILLIAM CHRISTY V. HII4Am HENLY.
In Texas, the technical forms of pleading, fixed by the cemmon law, are dispensed
with, but the principles which regulate the merits of i trial by ejectment and the
substance of a plea of title to such an action, are preserved.
Therefore, where the plaintiff filed a petition alleging that he was seised in his demesne as of fe- of land from which the defendant had ejEcted him, and the defendant
pleaded, that if thc plaintiff had any paper title, it was under a certain grant which
was not valid, this plea was bad.
So also ias a plea denying the right of the plaintiff to receive his title, becau e he
was 'not then a citizen of Texas. These pleas would have been appropriate oqjections to the plaintiff's title when produced upon the trial.
So also where, under a plea of the statute of limitations, the defendant claimed certain.land by metes and bounds, and disclaimed all not included within them. There
is nothing to show that the land so included, was part of the land claimed by the
!laintiff.
p
.So also where the plea was in substance that the plaintiff had no good title against
Texas, no title in the defendant being shown. For the action may have been
maintainable, although the true title was not in the plaintiff.

THESE four cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the
District Court of the United States for the District of Texas.
They all involved the same principles, and were covered by
the decision in Scott's case. It is necessary, therefore, to set
out the pleadings in that case.
Christy filed his petition, alleging that he was seised in his
demesne as of fee, in a certain tract or parcel of land, (which he
described by metes and bounds,) from which Scott ejected him;
and praying judgment for damages, and for the recovery of the
lands.
Scott filed the following answer And now comes the said
defendant, and answering the petilion of tie plaintiff, says, that
he denies all and singular the allegations in the said petition,
and prays that the plaintiff be held to strict proof of the same.
2. And as to the trespasses and ejectmonts, or either or any
of them, complained of by [the] plaintiff in his petition, the
'defendant says he is not guilty, and puts himself upon the
country, &c.
8. And the defendant further Pays, that as to the pretended
grant or title of the plaintiff to the land described in his petition,
(if aniy paper title he has) the same bears date, to wit, the
trentieth day of September, A. D. 1885, and the land described

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Christy v. Scott et al.

in said pretended grant or title, and in said petition, is, and
was at the date of said grant, situated in the tventy frontier
leagues bordering on the United [States] line*, and said pretended
grant was made without the approbation or assent of the executive of the national government of Mexico.
4. And the said defendant further answers, and says, that if
any such grant or title was made, as by said plaintiff is pre.
tended, the same was made, (as by said' plaintiff's- pretended
grant appears,) on, to wit, the twentieth day of September,
A. D. 1835, and was not made by any public officer, commissioner, or authority, then, to wit, at the date of said pretended
grant or title, existing in the State of Coahuila and Texas,
competent to make the same.
5. And the said defendant further says, that the plaintiff claims
the land sued for under and through a preteftded grant from'the
government of the State of Coahdila and Texas, made to one
Miguel Arcenie'ga, as a Mexican and purchaser, and purporting
to have been procured for the said Arceniega by one William G.
Logan, as his agent. And the defendant says, that the said
pretended grant or title of the plaintiff to the land sued for is
not valid in law, because the same was procured from th,
government of the State of Coahuila and Texas by fraul, in
this, that the said Miguel Arceniega and the said William G.
Logan combined and confederated together for the purpose of
evading the law, then in force, allowing the sale of lands to
Mexicans, and to them only; and falsely and-fraudulentv, represented to the said government that the application by said
Arceniega for the said grant of land was really and bon fide
made for him by the said Logan, and that the said Arceniega
was to be the real purchaser of said land, and to hold and enjoy
the same as a Mexican citizen; while, in truth, the said Arceniega, fraudulently permitted the said Logan to use his name,
and in his name procure the said grant solely for theuse and bene-'
fit of him, the said Logan, who was not, at the time of proenring
said grant, a Mexican citizen; and who, by the false and fraudulent practices aforesaid, procured the said grant, and appropriated
the land granted to his (the said Logan's) own use and benefit.
6. And the said defendant says, that the plaintiff claims the
premises described in his, petition by a pretended grant, purporting to have been made by authority of the government of
the State of Coahuila and Texas to Miguel Arceniega, bearing
date, to wit, the twentieth day of September, A. D. 1805; and
that the said pretended grant was made upon the eonditions
that the said Arceniega, or the person or persons to whom he
might alienate the land in said grant described, should cultivate
the same within six years from the acquisition thereof by said

284

SUPREME COURT.
Christy v. Scott et al.

pretended title, and pay for said land the price established by
law. And the defendant says, that the said Arceniega, and
those claiming said land under him, wholly failed to comply
with said conditions.
7. And the said defendant says, that the said plaintiff claims
the land described in his petition under and through a pretended
grant purporting to have been made to one Miguel Arceniega
by authority of the government of the State of Coahuila and
Texas, bearing date, to wit, the twentieth day of September,
A. D. 1835, and under and through a pretended claim of transfers from said Arceniega to plaintiff; and that within six years
from the date of said pretended grant, and before the annexation
of Texas to the United States, the said pretended transfers were
made to said plaintiff; and that the plaintiff was not, at the
date of said pretended grant to him, and previous thereto had
never been, a resident citizen of Texas or N.exico, but was then,
and thence hitherto continued to be, a resident and citizen of
the United States of America, owing and paying allegiance to
the government thereof.
8. And the said defendant further answering says, that he is
the -owner of the following tracts or parcels of land, to wit:
(setting out a tract of land by metes and bounds, but without
saying.whether or not it was the land claimed by the plaintiff)
and the defendant says that his possession of the said land is by
virtue of the authority and title of the said John Graves, and
a-s claimant under said Graves; and the -aid defendant says,
that he and the said Graves, under whom he claims as to the said
last-mentioned tract of land, and that he, in his own right and
those under whom he claims, as to the several parcels of land
above described, have had peaceable adverse possession of said
several -tracts of land, claiming the same by virtue of the certificates and files aforesaid, and the surveys aforesaid, with 'chains
of legal transfers from the government down to this defendant,
and to those under whom he claims, for more than three years
next before the commencement of this suit; and the defendant
disclaims ownership and possession of any portion of the land
described in plaintiff's petition, not included in the metes and
bounds of the several tracts and parcels above set forth.
9. Said defendant further says, that the land claimed by
plaintiff in his petition is located within the territory designated
as-the twenty frontier leagues, bordering cii the United States
of the North, in the act of the Congress' of the Republic of
Texas, approved January 9th, 1841, and entitled "An act to
quiet the land titles within the twenty frontier leagues bordering
on the United States of the North," 'and is claimed by plaintiff
by -virtue of said location made prior to the seventeenth day of

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

285

Christy v. Scott et al.
March, A. D. 1836; and that said plaintiff, and those under
whom he claims said land, did not commence an action to try
the validity of said claim within twelve months from the passage of the act aforesaid.
And the defendant suggests to the court that he has had
adverse possession in good faith of the said several tracts or
parcels of land, for more than one year next before the cornmencement of this suit; and that, during said possession, hhas made permanent and valuable improvements in the same.
consisting of, to wit, one thousand acres, cleared and fenced, and
divers good dwelling-houses, gin-houses, barns, corn-cribs, orchards, outhouses, &c., of great value, to wit, of the value of
ten thousand dollars.
The plaintiff then filed the following replications and demurrers :
2. And the plaintiff, by attorney, comes, and as to the plea
1
y the defendant, secondly by him in his answer pleaded,
whereof said defendant puts himself upon the country, he, said
plaintiff, doth the like.
Demurrer [to 3dpleh.]
And the said praintiff, by attorney, comes afid says, pre(ludi
?107?, by reason of any thing in the defendant's third plea, in his
said answer pleaded; because he says the said plea, and the
matters and things therein contained, are not sufficient in law
to bar and preclude him from having and maintaining his action
aforesaid, and this he is ready to verify; wherefore, he prays
judgment, &c.
And for cause of demurrer, according to the form of the statute in such case made and provided, the said plaintiff sets
down and shows the following, to wit:
1. The said plea in bar' of plaintiff's action attempts to set
up the want of the approbation or assent of the executive of
the national government of Mexico, to the issuance of a grant
-within the twenty border leagues, when the national colonization law, under which is sought the benefit of- this bar, contains
no prohibition- to the issuance of said grant; but if, at the time
of the issuance of said grant, there was any such prohibition,
it only extended to making settlements within said border
leagmes.
2. The said plea ;n bar of plaintiff's action attempts to set
up the issuance of a grant under which the plaintiff claims,
dated 20th September, 1835, without the approbation of the
supreme executive of Mexico, within the border leagues; but
does not show the nature or ind of said grant, so as to enable
the court to judge of its validity.

286

SUPREME COURT.
Christy v. Scott et al.

3. And the said plea is ifi other respects defective, informal,
and insufficient, &c.
Replication [to 4th plea.]
4. And for replication to the fourth plea by the said defendant in his said answer pleaded, the said plaintiff says, precludi
non, because he says the grant under which the plaintiff claims
was issued by an authority, at the time of the issuance of the
same, in the State of Coahuila and Texas, existing and competent to issue, the same, and this, he prays, may be inquired of by
the country.
Replication [tq 5th plea.]
5. And for replication to the fifth plea, by the said defendant
in his said answer pleaded, the said plaintiff says, precludi non,
because he says that the said grant, under which the said plaintiff claims, was not obtained or procured to be issued by fraudulent misrepresentations, as in the said plea alleged, and this, he
prays, may be inquired of by the country.
Demurrer [to 6thaplea..
6. And as to the sixth plea, by the said defendant in his said
answer pleaded, the said plaintiff says, precludi non, because he
says the said plea, and -the matters and things therein contained, are not sufficient in law to bar and 'preclude said plaintiff from having and maintaining his action aforesaid, and this
he is ready to verify; wherefore he prays judgment, &c.
And for cause of demurrer, according to the form of the statute in such case made- and provided, the said plaintiff sets
down and shows the following, to wit:
1. The conditions set forth in the said plea, as those upon
which 'said grant was issued, as is manifest by the said plea,
were conditions subsequent, of which the defendant cannot take
advantage upon a failure in their performance.
2. A failure to perform the conditions in said plea set out,
might have been cause of the forfeiture of the estate passed by
said grant in said plea, set out on a proceeding in behalf of the
State; but-this is no reason why the defendant, before forfeiturp
declared, should, against the plaintiff, retain possession of the
estate in said grant mentioned.
3. And the said plea is, in other respects, defective, informal,
and insufficient, &c.
Demurrer [to 7th plea.]
7. And as to the seventh plea, by the Eaid defendant in his
said answer pleaded, the said plaintiff says, precludi non, because le says the said plea, and th'e matters and things therein

DECEMBER TERM-, 1852.

287

Christy v. Scott et al.

contained, are not sufficient in law to bar and preclude him from
having and maintaining his action aforesaid, and this he is
ready to verify; wherefore he prays judgment, &c.
And for cause of demurrer, according to the form of the statute in such case made and provided, the said plaintiff sets down
and shows the following, to wit:
1. The said plea in bar avers, that the estate in the premises,
in the said petition mentioned, was transferred to said plaintiff
while and during the time he was a citizen of tle United States
of America, and owing allegiance to the same, and an alien to
the Republic of Texas; yet shows no forfeiture declared, on
office found, so as to divest the estate vested by said transfer.
2. And the said plea is in other respects defective, informal,
and insufficient, &c.
Replication [to $th plea]
Withdrawn, and the following demurrer substituted:
And now, at this term, comes the plaintiif; by his attorney,
and, by leave of the court first had and obtained, withdraws his
replication to the eighth plea, by the defendant in this behalf
pleaded, and says, precludi non, by reason of any thing in the
said defendant's eighth plea in this behalf pleaded, because he
says the said plea, and the matters and things therein contained,
are not sufficient in law to bar and preclude him from having
and maintaining his action aforesaid, and this he is ready to
verify; wherefore he prays judgment, &c.
And for causes of demurrer, according to the form of the statute in such case made and provided, the said plaintiff sets down
and shows the following, to wit:
1. The said plea avers, that the said defendant, and a certain
John Graves, under whom he, the said defendant claims, as to a
part of the land in said plea mentioned, had and still held peaceable possession of the same, for more than three years next
before the comrmencement* of this suit under color of title;
when, to produce a bar within the statute in such case made
and provided, a possession, under the circumstances, and within
the time prescribed by said statutes, by said defendant alone,
should have been set up.
2. The said defendant, by said plea, avers that, as to a part
of the lands in said plea specified, the title is yet outstanding in
a certain John Graves; yet the said defendant, by his said plea
a to said land, attempts to set up in bar, by reason of possession of the same for three years, under color of title, next before
the commencement of plaintiff's action.
3. The said defendant, by his said plea, avers, that a portion of
the land in said plea specified, and of which fit, said defendant,

288

SUPREME COURT.
Christy v. Scott et al.

claims to be the owner, by virtue of his, said defendant's, own
head-right certificate, has not been surveyed, as by law required,
to vest title in the same in said defendant; yet said defendant,
as to the same, by his said plea,.attempts to s t up in bar an
adverse possession, for three years next before commencement
of plaintiff's action, under color of title.
4. The said defendant, by his said plea, does not aver, that
he, said defendant, was ever an actual settler upon the said
land, of which, by his said plea, he claims to be in adverse possession.
5. Though the said defendant, by his said plea, attempts to
set up in bar an adverse possession, under color of title, for three
years next before commencement of plaintiff's action herein,
yet he does not show that said color of title was duly proven
and recorded.
6. The said defendant, by his said plea, attempts to set up
in bar of. plaintiff's action adverse possession, under color of
title, for three years next before the commencement of said
plaintiff's said action, when, by the purview of the statutes in
such case made and provided, there can be no such bar; but if
any, the bar must be by such adverse possession, under such
color of title, for three years next after cause of action accrued,
and before commencement of action.
7. The said plea, though in bar, does not make any case by
which the plaintiff is barred of his action, by reason of any
possession adverse, within the terms of the statute in such case
made and provided.
8.. And the said plea, is, in other respects, defective, informal, and insufficient, &c;
Demurrer [to 9th plea.]
9. And as to the ninth plea, by the said defendant in his said
answer pleaded, the said plaintiff says, precludi non, because he
says the said plea, and the matters and things therein contained,
are not sufficient in law to bar and preclude him, said plaintiff,
from having and maintaining his action aforesaid, and this h
is ready to verify; wherefore lie prays judgment, &c.
And for cause of demurrer, according to the form of the statute in such case made and provided, the said plaintiff sets
out and shows the following, to wit:
1. The act of Congress, referred to in said plea, at the time
of the approval thereof, since, and now, was not, and is not, the
law of the land.
2. The said act of Congress was made and intended to impair he obligation of contracts.
3. And the said plea is, in other respects, defective, informal,
and insufficient. &c.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

289

Christy v. Scott et al.

In this state of the pleadings; the cause was called for trial
when the following judgment was rendered:
This day came the parties aforesaid, by their attorneys, and
the questions of law, arising upon the demurrers of the plaintiff to the third, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth pleas, by the
defendant in his answer pleaded, having been argued and submitted, because it seems to the court that the law is for the defendant; it is therefore considered by the court, that the said demurrers be overruled, and the plaintiff stating that he intended
to abide by his demurrers, it is further considered by the court
that the defendant go hence without day, and that he recover
of the plaintiff his costs, by him about his defence in this behalf expended, to be taxed by the clerk, &e.
The counsel for the plaintiff then filed the following argiupent
of errors:

1. The defendant's third plea, by him in his answer pleaded,
attempts to set up, in bar of plaintiff's action, the issuance of
the grant under which the plaintiff claims, without the approbation of the executive of the Republic of Mexico, when, by the
law of the State of Coahuila and Texas, under which said grant
was issued, there was no prohibition to the issuance of said
grant without such approbation, and the said fact pl6aded is no
bar; yet the said court overruled the plaintiff's demurrer to said
plea, and gave judgment for defendant, when said demurrer, according to the rules of law, should have been sustained.
2. The said defendant, by his sixth plea in his said answer
pleaded, attempts to set up, in bar of the plaintiff's action aforesaid, the non-performance of conditions subsequent, without
showing re~ni'y, or other mode of enforcing a forfeiture of the
estate granted; yet the court overruled the plaintiff's demurrer
to said plea, when, according to the rules of law, the same should
have been sustained.
3. The said defendant, by his seventh plea in his answer
pleaded, attempts to set up, in bar of plaintiff's action, the fact,
that the lands claimed and sued for by the plaintiff; in his petition described, were sold and transferred to the said plaintiff
while and during the time he was a citizen of the United S.tates
of America, owing allegiance to the same, and an alien to the
Republic of Texas, without showing any office found, or forfeiture declared in any manner whatever; yet the court overruled the plaintiff's demurrer to said plea, when, according to
the rules of law, the same should have been sustained:
4. The said defendant, by his eighth plea in his said answer
pleaded, insists upon a bar, by and under the fifteenth section
of an act of Congress of the Republic of Texas, entitled "An
Act of Limitations," approved February 6th, 1841; but, by said
VOL. XIV.

25

290

SUPREME COURT.
Christy v. 8cott et al.

plea, does not show or allege that he was a settler on the land in
question, having had and held continuous adverse possession of
the same, under title duly proven and recorded, or under color of
title, for three years next after cause of action accrued, and before action brought, as by the rules of law he should have done;
yet the said court overruled the plaintiff's demurrer to said plea,
when, according to the rules of law, it should have been sustained.
6. The said defendant, by his ninth -,lea in his answer
pleaded, attempts to set up, in bar of plainiff's action, the failure to commence action within twelve months after the passage
of an act by the Congress of the Republic of Texas, entitled
"An act to quiet land-titles within the twenty frontier leagues
bordering on the United States of the North," to try the validity of the grant under which plaintiff claims, when it is apparent-that said grant, under which plaintiff claims, was a perfect,
and not an imperfect or inchoate title, and as to which the government of the RWpublic of Texas had no legitimate power or
authority to require or prescribe the commencement of any suit
in the form or manner the same was prescribed, to try the validity of the title vested by said grant, or create a bar in consequence of a failure to commence said suit; yet the demurrer to
said plea was overruled by said court, when the same, according
to the rules of law, should have been sustained.
The plaintiff then sued out a writ of error, and brought the
ease up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Bibb and 31r. Crittenden, (AttorneyGeneral,) with whom was tr. Hugh-es, for the plaintiff in error,
and il. Hill, with whom was It. Ienderscn,for the defendant
in error.
The argument, of course, turned entirely upon the validity or
invalidity of the plea; but the discussion was so much involved
with the laws and facts in the case, that a report of it is postponed until the record shall be brought up again in the shape
suggested by the court.
Mr. 'J'stice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the District of Texas.
The plaintiff in error filed a petition, in which he avers, that
on the 1st day of June, 1839, he was seised in his demesne as
of fee of three tracts of land, described in the petition by metes
and bounds, and that the defendant, with force of arms, ejected
him therefrom, and has thenceforward kept him out of possession thereof; and he prays judgmeht for damages and costs, and
for the lands described,' The defendant filed what is styled an

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

291

Christy v. Scott ct al.

answer, containing nine distinct articles, or pleas, each of which
seems to have been intended, and has been treated, as a sub.
stantive defence. The plaintiff demurred to the third, sixth,
seventh, eighth, and ninth, of these pleas. There was no joinder in demurrer by the defendant, but the District Court treated
the demurrers as raising issues in law, and gave judgment thereon for the defendant. The plaintiff has brought the record -here
by a writ of error.
Upon this record, questions of great difficulty, and understood
to affect the titles to large quantities of land, have been elaborately argued at the bar. These questions involve and depend
upon the interpretation of the Colonization Laws of the Repub..
lic of Mexico, and their practical administration; the relative
rights and powers of the central government, and of the State
of Coahuila and -Texas, in reference to the public domain; the
ipodes of declaring and vindicating those rights, and exercising
those powers under the constitution of the Mexican Republic;
the effect of the separation of the State of Coahuila and Texas
from Mexico, by the revolution of 1836, upon titles made by
the State authorities before the revolution, and alleged to be
defective for want of the sanction of the central government;
as well as several important laws of the Republic of Texas,
framed for the protection of the public domain, and for the
repose of titles in that country.
It is impossible that the court should approach an adjudication of a case, involving elements so new and difficult, without
much anxiety, lest they shoud have failed entirely to comprehend and fitly to apply them. And it is obvious, that before it
is possible to do so, all the facts constituting the title of each
party, and essential to a complete view of- the case, and especially the documentary evidences of those titles, should be
placed before us, in a determinate form.
This record is far from being sufficient in these substantial,
and, indeed, necessary particulars. The petition avers a seisin
in fee, on a particular day, and an ouster by the defendant.
The defendant shows no title in himself to the land demanded,
but asserts that the plaintiff claims title by a pretended grant,
made on the 20th day of September, 1835; that the land was
within the twenty frontier leagues bordering on the United
States; that the approbation of the executive of the national
government of Mexico was not given; and, in other pleas,
avers other facts, to show 1hat if any such grant had been made
it would not have been valid. But no grant, under which either
party claims, appears on the record, nor is the court informed,
through an exhibition of any title papers, by what authority, or
through what instrument, or for what consideration, or upon

SUPREME

COURT.

Christy v. Scott et al.

what conditions the title to these lands, originally passed from
the State; or, whether more than ohe title thereto has, in fact,
been made by the State; nor how, or when, if at all, any title
came from the State to either of the parties.
Having thus stated what the record fails to show, we proceed
to declare our judgment on each of the issues in law raised by
the demurrers.
The first plea which is demurred to, is in the following words:
"3. And the defendant further says, that as to the pretended
grant or title of the plaintiff, to the land d2scribed in his petition, (if any paper title he has,) the sam3 bears date, to wit,
the twentieth day of September, A. D. 1835, and the land
described in said pretended grant or title, and in said petition,
is, and was, at the date of said grant, situated in the twenty
frontier leagues bordering on the United States line, and said
pretended grant was made without the app-obation or assent of
the executive of the national government of Mexico."
According to the settled principles of the common law, this
is not a defence to the action. The plaintiff says he was seised
in fee, and the defendant ejected him from the possession. The
defendant, not denying this, answers, that if the plaintiff had
any paper title, it was under a certain grant which was nOt
valid. He shows no title whatever in Limself. But a mere
intruder cannot enter on a person actually seised, and eject him,
and then question his title, or set up an outstanding title in
another. The maxim that the plaintiff must recover on the
strength of his own title, and not on tae weakness of the
defendant's, is applicable to all actions for the recovery of property. But if the plaintiff had actual prior possession of the
land, this is strong enough to enable him tcr recover it from a
mere trespasser, who entered without any title. He may do so
by a writ of entry, where that remedy is still practised, (Jackson
v._Boston & Worcester Railroad, 1 Cush. 575,) or by an ejectment, (Allen v. Rivington, 2 Saund. R. 11.1; Doe v. Read, 8
East, 356; Doe v. Dyboll, 1 Moody & MI.346; Jackson v'. Hazen, 2 Johns. R. 438; Whitney v. Wright, 15 Wend. 171,) or,
he may maintain trespass, (Catteris v. Cowper, 4 Taunt. 548;
Graham v. Peat, 1 East, 246.)
Nor is there any thing in the form of the remedy, in Texas,
which renders these principles inapplicable to this case.
By the act of February 5th, 1840, (Hartley's Digest, 909,) it
is proved, that the method of trying titles to lands shall be by
action of trespass, and that .the action shall be tried on its
merits, conformably to the piinciples of trial by ejectment; and
where the defendant sets up title to the land, he is required to
plead the same. We understand that the technical forms of

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Christy v. Scott et al.

pleading, fixed by the common law, are dispensed with, but the
principles which regulate the merits of a trial by ejectment, and
the substance of a plea of title to such an action, are preserved.
Tested by these principles, this plea is bad."
Without setting up any title in the defendant, it pleads certain evidence or source of title, -vrhich, it avers, the plaintiff
relies on, and then states facts, to show that such title is invalid.
This is not admissible.
The office of a plea is, to state on the record the answer *of
the defendant to the allegations of the plaintiff, but not to the
evidence by which the defendant conjectures the plaintiff will
endeavor to support those allegations. We cannot conceive
that such a mode of pleading could be admissible. under any
system. At the common law, if the allegation that the plaintiff's paper title is under a grant mentioned in the plea,
had been traversed, it would have led to an issue which, if
found for the plaintiff, would determine nothing, and, therefore,
the plaintiff cannot be required to answer' such a plea. And
where pleadings are so conducted as not to terminate in issues,
as in Texas, such an answer neither confesses and avoids, noi
denies the seisin, or trespass, alleged in the declaration. United
States v. Girault, 11 How. 22.
There are cases in which such allegations, showing the source
or nature of the plaintiff's title, are a necessary part of a defence.
Whenever the defendant must plead specially any matter which
is a good defence to one title, and not good to others, and the
declaration does not show on what particular title the plaintiff
relies, the defendant must, by proper avernients, set out the
plaintiff's title and the answer to it; these averments then become
material and traversable as part of the defence, and if found for
the plaintiff, the defence fails. An instance of this is the defence
of a statute of limitations,, barring only particular titles. In
such a plea, it would be necessary to show, if it did not appear
in the declaration, that the plaintiff had only such a title. But
this rule has no application to the defence under consideration.
If the plaintiff really relies on such a title as is alleged, whenever .he shows it in support of his petition, the defendant wAll
have opportunity to object to it, and to give in evidence any
collatdral facts bearing upon it. He has no occasion, nor is it
regular, to plead specially, for his general denial of the plaintifPs
title compels the plaintiff to produce his title, and thus opens to
the defendant all legal objection to it. Moreover, this article in
the answer does not admit, or deny, that the plaintiff had any
grant, or any paper title whatever, but says, if he had anyit was
of a certain description. If it was intended to make the case
turn on the validity of a particular grant, its existence ought
25 '

94

SUPREME

COUR'T.

'Christy v. Scott et al.

to be admitted; for why should the court be called- upon to de.
termine the sufficiency in law of tuch a grant, when it does not
appear it exists?
These objections are equally applicable to the sixth plea, which
is therefore also insufficient.
The next plea is as follows:
"7. And the said defendant says, that the said plaintiff claims
the land described in his petition under and through a pretended
grant purporting to have been made to one Miguel Arceniega,
by authority of the government of the State of 'Coahuila and
Texas, bearing date, to wit, the twentieth day of September,
A. D. 1835, and under and through a pretended chain of transfers from said Arceniega to plaintiff, and that within six years
from the date of said pretended grant, and before the annexation of Texas to the United States, the said pretended transfers
were made to said plaintiff, and that this plaintiff was not, at
the date of said pretended gtant.to him, and previous thereto,
had never been a resident citizen of Texas or Mexico, but was
then, and thence hitherto, continued to be a resident and citizen
of the United States of America, owing and Paying allegiance
to the government thereof."
This plea also,'is subject to the same objections as the others
so far as it attacks the plaintiff's title; and if it was intended as
a plea to the action of the alienage of the plaintiff, it is manifestly bad, for the plaintiff, being a citizen of the United States,
is capable of maintaining an action to recover lands in the State
of Texas, to which he has title.
The eighth plea sets up a statute of limitations. In order to
bring himself within it, the defendant avers, "that he is the
owner of the following tracts or parcels of land,.to wit;" and he
then gives the metes and bounds of sundry tracts of land, and
makes certain other averments as to his possession, and coneludes, "And the defendant disclaims ownership and possessioin
of any portion of the land described in plaintiff's petition, not
included in the metes and bounds of the several tracts and parcels above set forth."
The court cannot treat this plea as an answer to the decldralion.
t.tis not averred therein, nor is there any thing on the
record to show, that the tracts of land described in it are parcel
of thi demanded premises. The defendant says he disclaims
ownership and possession of any portion of the land described
in the petition, and not included in the bounds he sets out. For
aught we can know, this disclaimer may ccver the whole of the
land described in the petition. And as it does not appear, -by
any direct traversable averment, that. the disclaimer does not
apply to all the lands demanded, or that the defence applies to

DECEMBER TERMI, 1852.

295

Christy v. Scott et al.

any, or if any, to what part of them, the court cannot know for
what to give judgment, or whether it should be for the one party
or the other.
The ninth plea is as follows:
"9. Said defendant further says, that the land claimed by
plaintiff in his petition, is located in the territory designated as
the twenty frontier leagues, bordering on the United States of
the North, in the act of the Congress of the Republic of Texas,
approved January 9th, 1841, and enti'led 'An act to quiet the
land titles within the twenty frontier leagues bordering on the
United States of the North,' and is claimed by plaintiff by virtue of said location, made prior to the seventeenth day of March,
A. D. 136, and that said plaintiff, and those under whom he
claims said land, did not commence an action to try the validity
of said claim within twelve months from the passage of the act
aforesaid."
Assuming what we do not decide, that this plea shows, that
if the plaintiff claims under such a location as is mentioned, his
title is not good as against the State of Texas, still it is not a
defence, because no title in the defendant is shown. If the
plaintifi; as his petition avers, was actually seised, and the defendant being a mere intruder, ejected him, it was an unlawful
act, and the action is maintainable, notvithstanding the State
of Texas may have the true title, or may have granted it to
another.
For these reasons, we are of opinion the demurrer to each of
these pleas must be sustained, the judgment of the District
Court reversed, and the cause remanded; and as it will undoubtedly become necessary to arnend the, pleadings, we think
it proper to buggest, that in a case involving questions so new
and of so much magnitude and importance, it would be more
satisfactory, and more conducive to a just decision, for the parties to exhibit fully their respective titles, and all collateral facts
bearing upon them, and have them placed upon the record,
either by bill of exceptions or a special verdict, to the end that.
the court may consider their title papers in connection with the
extraneous facts, and not be required to decide upon partial or
abstract views, which may occasion substantial injustice, not
only to the one party or the other, but possibly to third, persons
having similar titles.
Ordkr.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this

296

'SUPREME COURT.
Christy v. Findley;

Christy v,.foung.

court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remandEd to the said District
Court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity
to the opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

WILLIAMu CHRISTY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAIIES

D.

FINDLEY.

Mr. Justice CURTIS.
The amended pleas in this case, being live in number, are demurred to, and the demurrers are sustained for the reasons assigned in the opinion in the case of Christy v. Scott. The
judgment of the District Court is reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of. the United States for the District
of Texas, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, -qith costs, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, for
further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to. the opiIlion of this court, and as to law and justce shall appertain.

WILLIA-I

CHRISTY,! PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM YOUNG.

Mr. Justice CURTIS.
In this case, the sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth pleas, are demurred to, and the demurrers are suptained, for the reasons assigned in the opinion in the case-of Christy v. Scott. The tenth
plea in this case of the ten years' limitation law of Texas, is
bad, for the same reasons. bs the plea of the three years' statute
pleaded in that case. The judgment of the District Court is
Teversed, and the case remanded for further procedings.

