I)D.QE3MBER TERM, 1852.

589

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

action may be brought in the name of the late marshal or his
successor.
Several grounds were taken in arrest of judgment.
1. Because the declaration on the bond, does not show that
the District Court had jurisdiction in the attachment suit. Such
showing was unnecessary, as that court had general jurisdiction
of such cases.
2. Because the verdict is informal,'in being entered fdr the
amount due, when it should have been for the penalty of the
bond. This is a mere informality, and no ground for arresting
the judgment.
3. Because the recovery is for a sum greater than is claimed
by the ad darnnurn. in the declaration. The action wvas debt,
and the damages laid *ere only require4 to cover the interest.
There was no error in the District Court in overruling the
motion in arrest of judgment.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this
court, tlat the judgment of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and interest
until the same is paid, at the same rate per annum that similar
judgments bear in the courts of the State of Wisconsin.
1

JOHN G.

GOESELE AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS,
BIMELERL AND OTHERS.

V. JOSEPH M.

A society called Separatists, emigrated from Germany to the United States. They
were very poor, and one of them, in 1817, purchased land in Ohio, for which he
gave his Iond,and took the title to himself. Afterwards, they adopted two constitutions, one in 1,1M, and one in 1824, which they signed, and in 1832 obtained
an act of incorporation. The articles of association, or constitutions of 1819 and
1824, contained a renunciation of individual property.
The heirs of one of the members
who signed these conditions, and died in 1827,
cannot maintain a bill of partition.
From 1,47 to 1919, the contract between the members and the person who purchased
the property, vested in parol, and.was destitute of a consideration. Nlo legal rights
were vested in the members.
The an'-etor of these heirs renounced all right of individual'-property, when he
signed the articles, and did so upon the consideration that the society would support him in sickness and in health; and this was deemed by him an adequate compensatiou for his labor and property, contributed to the common stock.

VOL. XIV.

50

590

SUPREME

COURT.

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.
The principles of the association were, that land and o her property were to be acquired by the members, but they were not to be ves,;ed with the fee of the land.
Hence, at the death of one of them, no right of prope-ty descended to his heirs.
There is no legal objection to such apartnership; nor can it be considered a forfeiture
of individual rights for the community to succeed to his share, because it was a
matter of voluntary contract.
.Nor do the articles of association constitute a perpetuitj. The society exists at the
will of its members, a majority of whom may at any time order a sale of the property, and break up the association.
The evidence shows that they are a moral, religious, and industrious people.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, sitting as a Court of Equity.
The bill was filed by John G. Goesele and six other persons,
as heirs at law of Johannes Goesele, deceased, against Bimeler
and twenty-four other persons, members of the Society of
Separatists.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, cand the complainants
appealed to this court.

It was argued by M9r. Quinn, for the- appellants, and by ,Mr.
Stanberry and Mr. Ewing, for the appellees.
tr. 'Quinn, for the appellants, stated the facts in the case, the
article* of association made in 1819 and 1824, and then made
.the following points:
1st. That the purchase being made for the use of all the members'of the company, the purchase-money paid with the issues
and profits of their joint labor or joint means, and the title taken
by Bimeler, either with or without a fraudvilent intention, makes
him a trustee of the legal estate, holding to the use of the members of the company, each of whom own an undivided portion
of the whole trust or equitable estate.
2d. That this trust, or equitable estate, is an estate of inheritance, alienable and descendible like any other fee. 8 Ohio R.
398; 9 Ohio R. 145. And that of such an estate Johannes
Goesele died seised in 1827.
Here we think the argument properly ends, and that the complainants are entitled to an account and partition. But to the
case made upon the articles, we say 1st. That if the articles of 1819 c6nstituted a partnership,
(which we think they did not,) it became dissolved by Johannes
-Goesele's death, or by the first change in its constituent parts.
2d. That the articles of 1824 are void for no less than four
different reasons.
1. Because there is no grantee or assignee to take the property
from the natural persons. Sloan v. McConahy, 4 Ohio.R. 169.
The society being unincorporated. '4 Wheat. 1.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

591

Goesele et al. v.Bimeler et al.

2. Because the trusts are vague and uncertain. 3 Kent's
Corn. 303; Bacon's .Ab., Uses and Trusts, 256; Tomlins'A L.
Diet., Trusts; Story's Eq. § 979 to § 1070; 12 Ohio R. 287; 5
Mass. 504; Swan's Ohio Stat. 319; 2 Spencer's Eq. 106; 7 Eng.
Com. Law R. 267.
3. Because they create a perpetuity. Story's Eq. § 974, n.;
10 Ohio R. 4; 2. Spencer's Eq. 93, et seq. 106; 4 Ohio R.
515; ord Deerhurst v. Duke of St. Albans, 5 Mad. 235; 4
Kent's Com. 267, 271; 1 Cox, 324; 1 Bing. 104.
4. Because they are the work of imposition, and a scheme of
Bimeler to defraud his cestui que trusts.
In addition to these two exceptions taken to the articles of
1824, two others are made, which are alike common to both,.
and which, in their natural, order, lie in advance of those just
taken. They are1st. That no articles were executed, some of the members
having failed to sign; among whom is the defendant 'Bimeler,
who now claims protection under them.
2d. That the so-called Separatists' society, at Zoar, is not an
association or community, but is an institution of a master and
his slaves, or what the Roman jurists characterized as societas
leoi na. Story on Part. § 18.
Bimeler, upon the face of his pleadings, presents five points
of defence.
1. That by the articles, there is a surrender of property, and
that in consequence no property descended to Goesele's heirs.
2. That the institution is to be taken as a general partnership,
with the principles of succession ingrafted upon it, and its property is to be taken as personalty.
3. That in virtue of the act of incorporation, passed in 1832,
the entire property passed to the corporation.
4. That Johannes Goesele's labor was not worth more than
his support.
5. That the property has been improved with regard to a
common ownership, and cannot now be divided.
The first of these points, we say, admits the first objection.
made to the articles of 1824, viz., the want of an assignee.
For, while it claims a surrender, it does not show to whom that
surrender was made.
Upon the second point, we think the articles do not consti.
tute a partnership; yet, if they do, we think it is a waiver of the
whole defence; for, if the members were partners, they owned
the property. But a partnership, with the principle of succession ingrafted upon it, would be a corporation, which individuals have not the power of making. In the consideration of
these points, the following- cases are cited: Miles v. Fisher, 10

SUPREME

COURT.

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

Ohio Rep. 1; Story on Part, § 273, § 18; 15 Johns. Rep. 159; 11
Mass. Rep. 469; Swan's Ohio Statutes.
The third point, namely, that Goesele's property passed to a
corporation, five years after his death, is not the law. 8 Pick.
Rep. 455.
Upon the fourth point, we say that, whether Goesele's labor
was worth more or less than his support, is a matter after which
the court will not inquire; but, finding him a member of the
company, and a joint owner of the estate, will presume his
share equal to that of the other members. If,however, it makes
the inquiry, it will find that he contributed about twice or three
times his proportionate share.
The fifth and last point presented on fce face of the pleadings, namely, that the property has been improved with regard
to a common ownership, and is incapable of division, we cannot but regard as trifling. And yet we find that depositions,
covering no less than thirty pages of printed record, have been
taken to prove this point, together with one other of similar
importance, namely, that the members are well clothed, well
fed, and are contented.
One other point was raised by the defendant, Bimeler, at the
hearing below, and will probably be raised again. It is, that
"the society is a charity," or rather that the property is a donation to'charitable use. This, we say, it is not, and cite Ambler,
652; Story's Eq. § 1156, 4th ed., § 1182, 1183; Rabb v. Read,
5 Rawle's Rep. 154; Chase's Ohio Statutes, 1066; Swan's Ohio
Statutes, 782; 4 Wheat. 1.
We are advised that it will be insisted that the society is
what is called a universal partnership. If it is, it will not lel
the defence; for such partnerships differ from ordinary partnerships only in the extent of the investment; that is, the members
invest their .all, all their labor, property, ar.d skill; but in every
other particular, including the causes of dissolution, they are
governed by the same rules that go.'ern ordinary partnerships.
Were they, however, such as is claimed by the defence, they
would be corporations.
Again, we are advised that it will be claimed that the articles
are a contract for survivorship. To this we answer, that nothing
can be farther from both the letter and spirt of the instruments.
Instead of its being provided that one shall survive to the estate of another, it is expressly .provided, ti at no one shall survive to, or even have any thing; and in this particular the first
decedent and the last survivor are placed in precisely the same
situation. Nothing could be more foreign from the intention,
than'that the last survivor and his heirs should take the whole
property, to the exclusion of the heirs of all the other members.

DECEMBER TERMN,

1852.

593

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

That Goesele once owned the property, is admitted; and
Bimeler claims to be nothing but a trustee, In this situation,
when called upon by the cestid que trust to convey the legal
title, he endeavors to defend himself by saying, that cestui que
trust assigned his interest to a third person. This ldnfd of defence cannot be sustained. For as he is a mere stakeholder, by
his own showing, he must file his bill of interpleader,
the right. and bring
that thikd party before the court to litigate
He claim. protection, too, under instruments which he never
signed, but which he got others to sign, by representing that he
would also be a subscriber.
Great complaint is made from the other side, that we are endeavorigg to infringe upon their liberties by prohibiting them
from living in community. This is not so. Mr. Bimeler and his
adherents may live in any way they please, provided they live
on their own property; but we are unwilling to give them our
property to enable them to live in any way whatever. They
say, too, that the appointment of a receiver or a partition will
break up the society. If it does, it ought to be broken up;
for it is an -evidence that the members do not wish to live as
they do.
The articles of 1833 purport to be a revision of those of
1819 and 1824, and also to be an acceptance of an act of incorporation passed in 1833; but they form a society entirely
different from the one created by the act, for which reason, we
think, the grant of corporate power has been rejected. A grant
of corporate power must be received as it came from the hands
of the legislature, or it is not received at all. Kirk v. Newill, 1
T. R. 71.
Their by-laws, too, which are required by the statute to be
consistent with the laws of the Uhited States and the State of
Ohio, are opposed to public policy.
They require the alienating rights which are unalienable, and
close the doors of the courts of justice against the citizen. Constitution of Ohio, §§ 1, 16, Bill of Rights; 1 Blackf. 122; 19
Wend. 77. Deprive the husband of his curtesy and the widow
of her dower. 4 Kent, 131; 3 Id. 30, e; 2 Spencer's Eq. 104;
1 Eden, 415. Their trusts are also vague and uncertain. They
are also executory, and, to divest the member of his property,
are without consideration.
Under these articles, as well as under those of 1824, if they
are sustained, Bim-ler will eventually-take the whole property in
absolute ownership. He still holds the legal title. The members, according to his defence under the articles of 1824, hold
an use while they remain members; consequently, when they
cease to be men-bers, either by death or otherwise, the use
50"

594

SUPREME COURhT.
Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et-al.

estate becomes extinct, and his legal title takes the absolute property, The sapne is the case under the artles of 1833, supposing the company to be incorporated; fcr by that arrangement
the corporation holds the use estate in trust for the use of the
members. When thq members die, then the corporation dies,
and, as a consequence, there is nobody to look after the trust;
therefore, whether the company is or is not incorporated, Bimeler's legal title will eventually take the whole estate.
Such an advantage, to be acquired by an agent over his principals, a preacher or pastor over his people, and a trustee over
his cestui que trusts,i cannot be sustained by any ehlighterp-d
system of jurisprudence.
MJ'r. Stanberry's brief was as follows:
I propose, in the first place, to consider the character and legal
condition of this association, as it stood upon the mere agreements of 1819 and 1824, before it became clothed with a corporate capacity.
It is said it was simply a partnership, liable to the incidents
of that condition, and subject to the operation of all the ordinary causes of dissolution. 'That, in point of fact, it was dissolved by the first death which happened amongst its members,
and was capable of dissolution and partitzon of its real estate,
at any time, at the instance of any member.
if it were a pure partnership, these results would have followed. But I claim this association is no; of that character.
The original agreement provides for a p erfect community of
property, real and personal, and for a succession or survivorship
among members on the Tontine principle. It guards, with
great care, against the dissolution of the body. Its property
consisted, at tire beginning, of a common stock of money and
chattels, contributed in unequal proportions by the members,
with which, and the labor of the members,, real estate ard personalty, to a very large amount, were in process of time accumulated.' The legal title to the real estate has always been
vested in Joseph I. Bimeler, one of the members. The business of the society has been various. Agriculture, nanufactures, and merchandise, have been carried on simultaneously.
From. 1817 to 1833, a period of seventeen years, during which
it was unincorporated, various changes took place in the body
of the so6iety, by deaths, withdrawals, expulsions, and admniissions of members.,
With this general outline, we can ent,: r upon the inquiry
which is opened by the objections on the other side.
And first, we say, this was not a rnere partnership, nor the
members tenants in common. The agreement' for community

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

595

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.
of property, the mutual surrender of all individual property into
the common stock, and the express stipulations against any
reclamation in the case of withdrawal, and for the preservation
of the common property, for the exclusive use and perpetual
enjoyment of the members, in succession, are inconsistent with
the incidents of mere partnership or tenancy in common.
There can be no question as to the intent of these stipulations. The only doubt is as to their legal practicability.
The actual practicability of such a society is demonstrated
in this instance. For the sixteen years in which it existed withodt a charter it fulfilled all the purposes of its formation, and
secured the comfo-t and well-being of its members, beyond the
common lot.
But, it is said, there are legal difficulties which the agreement
of the parties cannot surmount. Let us consider them.
1. It is said, upon the death of a member, the society was
dissolved ex" necessitate. This consequence, though generally
true as to partnerships, does not follow where the agreement
provides against it. It is not an inevitable consequence. The
doctrine of dissolution upon the death of a partner, only obtains
where the deceased partner has a continuing interest in the
property or profits of th! association. It is not just that the
surviving partners should be obliged to carry on the business,
without his cooperation, for the benefit of his estate. Story on
Partnership, 454.
I have said this society was not an ordinary partnership. It
very closely resembles that sort of partnership in the civil law,
which is called universal. "Universal partnerships (des societies vuniverselles) are contracts by which the parties agree to
make a common stock of all property they respectively pos.
sess -they
may extend it to all property, real or personal, or
restrict it to the personal only. They may, as in other partnerships, agree that the property itself shall'be common stock, or
that the fruits only shall be such; but property which may
accrue to one of the parties, after entering into the partnership,
by donation, succession, or legacy, does not become common
stock, and any stipulation to that effect, previous to the obtaining of the property aforesaid, is void." "An universal partnership
of profits includes all the gains that may be made, from -whatever source, whether from property or industry, with the restri&
tion contained in the last article, and subject to all legal stipulations between the parties"
Civil Code of Louisiana, art. 2800.

9QS01.

These universal partnerships have been adopted into the
common law. Mr. Justice Story thus defines them: "By univer3al partnerships, we are to understand these, that where the

SUPREME COURT.
Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

parties agree to bring into the firm all their property, real, personal, and mixed, and to employ all their skill, labor, services,
and diligence, in trade or business, for the common and mutual
benefit, so that there is an entire communion of interest between
them. Such contracts are within the scope of the common law,
but they are of very rare existence." Story on Part. 104.
Such 'a form of association being within the scope of the
common law, can it be doubted that, by the mutual consent
and agreement of the members, the effect of a dissolution by
death may be provided against?
In England, and in the United States, large associations and
joint stock companies exist, under agreements which protect the
members, inter sese, from the ordinary incidents of partnership,
such as dissolution by death, bankruptcies, assignments, &c.
Collyer on Part. 614; Livingston v. Lynch, 4 Johns. Cli. Rep. 573.
This association is a general partnership, with the principle
of survivorship ingrafted upon it. In this particular it takes
the character of a Tontine, which is a society with the benefit
of survivorship, the longest liver taking the common property
in absolute ownership. Encyclopoedia Brit. vol. 37, art. Tontine; Encyclopaedia Amer. vol. 12, art. Tontine.
I can see no objection to this provision as to ownership.
Certainly as to personalty there can be no difficulty; but it
is said, in so far as the real property of the company is concerned, there can be no joint tenancy, no right of survivorship, in Ohio; and that upon a death of a member, his interest
in the real estate passes to his heirs at law, and that at any
time the right to partition might be asserted.
As to that, it is to be considered, in the first place, that this is
a partnership, and that the real estate is, by the articles of association, expressly made a part of the common stoek. This, in
equity, stamps it with the character of personalty. Summer v.
Hampson, 8 Ohio Rep. 328.
Fortunately for the society, the title to its real estate has
always been well vested in one individual. No question can
be raised in this case as to the condition of that legal title, and
as to the equitable title or use, that was in the members before the
act of incorporation, and since then it is in the corporate body.
I do not doubt, however, that as a general principle, equitable
estates follow the same rules as to descent, &e., with legal estates. What I mean to say in reference to the legal, as distinguished from the'equitable, title, is, that there is a necessity, it
should vest somewhere, and conform to gedieitl rules as to transfer, descent, &c.
Being relieved, in this case, from any difficulty as to the condition of the fee in the real estate of this society, all we have

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

597'

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

:o look to, is merely the equitable interest or use which enured
-o the members, who stood in the relation of cestuis que trust
:o Bimeler, the holder of tbe legal title. As I have before said,
this interest in partnership property is viewed in this court simply
as personalty.
But if that were not so, if it were strictly an interest in real
estate, and to be made conformable to the rules which govern
real property, I deny that the principle of survivorship may not
be grafted upon it.
Our court has said, in an early case, (Sergeant v. Steinberber,
2 Ohio Rep. 126,) that the estate by joint tenancy does not exist
in Ohio. That case only required of the court to decide that
it does not exist here by mere operation of law. But that
the principle of survivorship may not be provided for and exist
by limitadon, in Ohio; has never been decided. On the contrary, we have. reported cases which recognize it. M1iles v.
Fisher, (10 Ohio, 1,) is a case of that character. The court say
in that case, "Laying out of view the doctrine of survivorship,
resulting from joint tenancy, an incident of the estate depending
on the law and not on the act of the party, we find the testator,
by express words, limiting the estate to three trustees and the
survivor. The estate wvell passes by these vords to the survivor
for life, the remainder in fee is not disposed of."
There is, then, no objection to survivorship by express limitation or agreement. This being so, there has been no descent
to any heirs of the'deceased members of the society, and, there
is no present right of partition in any of the living members.
It is also said that even as to the personal property, it is difficult to fix its ownership distinct from the individual right of
each member making the contribution, and that the idea of accurulation for an unincorporated body is a fallacy.
This difficulty is altogether fanciful. The members of this
partnership are in no way uncertain, for no one is a member
whose name is not subscribed to the articles of association: It
is a large partnership. The accumulation is for the partners,
not for an ideal company or mere abstraction. The property
loses its individuality as to ownership the instant the owner
becomes a member. It stands like the property of any other
partnership. The partners are joint owners. No formal transfer or delivery is necessary; the possession by one partner is the
possession of all.
Objection is also made to this association, that the principle
of community and si cession of property among the members,
involves a perpetudit
There is nothing like a perpetuity in
it. The society has the perfect right of disposal over all its
property, real as well as personal, and this power of disposalis

SUPREME COtURT I
Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

wholly inconsistent with the idea of perpetuity, which only
exists where property is so limited that no living agency can
unfetter it.
It is further urged that this society is contrary to the genius
of our free institutions - that its constitution enforces perpetual
service and adherence to a particular faith, and that it is aristocratic in its tendency.
If-there were any thing in such objecticns, the constitution
answers them all. So fdr from being it all aristoerdtic, this
society is a pure democracy. All the officers are chosen by
ballot, every member, male and female, having an equal voice;
and the body of the society reserves to itself ttre power of removing officers, and changing the form of goverpment at pleasure.' All distinctions of rank or wealth are abblished, and a
perfect equality provided for. No single dogma in religion or
politics is announced, no unusual restraint on marriage, nor
subszrviency, to any doctrine out of the common way, exist;
and so far from any enforcement of perpetual service being
provided for, the right is reserved for every member to retire
from the society at pleasure, with the single condition that no
claim is to be set up for services or property contributed. The
powers -which the society confides to its officers are temporary,
and so distributed as to prevent any one member or officer from
engro.ssing too much power.
Besides this liberal frame of government, the constitution,
by very full 'enactments, pro'vides for the education of the
children, the comfort and support of all. th3 members, and the
peaceable 'ettlement of all controversies by domestic tribunals.
It is impossible to hold that such a constitution is contrary to
public policy, or in any sense illegal. To say that such a
,society cannot exist under our form of government is a libel on
our.free institutions.
Here are a number of persons, who, in the exercise of their
mature judgment, and following their own peculiar views, have
thought it best, more than thirty yeaYs ago, to associate as one
family, in a communion of property. From that time to the"
present, through an entire generation, their experiment has been
successful, They have lived in peace, plenty, and happiness,
beyond the common lot. The legislaturEz has given them a
charter to perpetiiate their social existence; and now it is urged
that, in this land of liberty, the right does not exist to live in
this way; a very bright idea, truly! If a despot proclaimed
such an edict, forbidding men to pursue their ,:wn mode of life,
in their own inoffensive way, we could. understand it; but it' is
quite new as a democratic idea.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

(21ir. Stanberry then cited and examined the cases of Waite
v. Merrill et al. 4 Greenleaf, 102; Schriber v, Rapp, 5 Watts,
351; Gass and Bonta v. 'Wilhite et al. 2 Dana, 170. He then
contended that this society was protected by the doctrine of
charities, and by its act of incorporation.)
1lIr. Ewings brief was as follows.
1st. The executor or' administrator of Goesele is not a party to
this suit; therefore nb question as to personal property can arise.
I now state the proposition as applying to property purely
personal, but will, in the course of my argument, show that it
controls also the real estate owned hy this association, to which
the law attributes the qualities and consequences of personalty.
2d. This suit, therefore, involves nothing but title to -real
estate, and the question is, did Goesele die seised of an inheritable estate in tho lands and tenements named in the bill.
We have the "object and terms of the original purchase from
no other source than the answer of Bimeler. He says he purchased it for the Separatist society, took a deed in his own
name, and gave his own bonds for the payment of'the purchasemoney. P. 6.
And it was purchased with the understanding at the time
that it should be paid for with the means and labor of those of
the Separatists who would settle upon it, and that each should
have thereof in proportion to the amount that he or she should
contribute to paying therefor. P. 14.
It is obvious, at ohee, that here was yet no partnership. And
there was yet no contract between Bimeler and either or all
of the other parties which equity could enforce.
No one was yet bound to Bimeler, that he should go upon
the land or pay for any part of it; as a correlative proposition,
Bimeler was not bound to hold the land, or any part of it, in
trust for any of them. Both parties must be bound or neither.
GCoesele, however, went on t6 the land, and built a small loghouse on a town lot in Zoar, previous to 1819. Some conffict
in the evidence about the building. Ie went into a house.
He was still under no contract to pay for any of the land.
He, still had no right to any definite part or amount, on making
payment, unless it may have been the town lot on which his
house was built.
He had yet paid nothing, applied nothing; had no contract
which equity could regard.
If, the hour before the execution of the articles of April .th,
1819, Goesele had claimed a definite portion of the land, and
offered to pay for it in proportion to the cost of the whole, a
court of equity could not have denied it to him.

600

SUPREME COURT.
Goesele et al. v. Bimeler el al.

If Bimeler had declared that he would thenceforth hold the
land to his own use, and that his associates should have none
of it, equity could not have relieved them by decreeing to them
parts of the land. The law, however, would have given them .
quantum meruit for the labor which they had performed.
Or, if I be mistaken in this, and he had any interest in the
land which equity could recognize, it was held by such loose and
uncertain tenure, that he could abandon it ly any word or deed
showing a purpose not to retain or rely upon it. Goesele, thereXore, was entitled to. nothing, except what the articles of brother.
hood and association gave him.
The genuineness of the articles is doubted, and we are called
upon for proof that Goesele signed them. 'We are content that
the court sh6uld regard them as not in evidence, and especially
that Goesele never signed them. If that be so, we think it very
clear that he never had any right whatever, except to a compensation in money for his services, if he rendered any, of value
beyond his maintenance, nursing, and burial. But this is a ques.
tion -which none but his administrator is competent to litigate.
But he had rights under-those articles of association, and as
his counsel is probably not seriously disposed to repudiate them,
I will inquire what the rights were which were conferred by
them.
Waiving, for the present, the question whether this was or was
not a charitable association, and, as such, protected by the law
of charities, I will examine it as a mere attempt to dispose of
.property..and give it direction.
I will suppose Bimeler to have signed the articles, as he intended to be bound by them, and would have signed them had
the land been paid- for and his notes taken up, and he did sign
soon after this was done.
Then if the articles were good to transfer real estate in equity,
they -were good to transfer personalty, and equally good to limit
and direct the real estate transferred.
What title to the real estate do these articles vest in Goesele?
it, is to be borne in mind, that down to this time Birneler had
the legal estate, and Goesele had no interesin it which a court
of equity could regard. ,
The articles giv6 to Goesele a right to live upon, and enjoy a
fair proportion of the land, durihg his life; to raise and have
his children educated and maintained upon it; to take part, with
others) under rules agreed upon between themselves, in its management and control.. Tfese rights, however, were conferred
subject-to conditions and forfeiture.
But the conditions were complied with, namely, that he
should surrender whatsoever property he had, to the association,

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

601

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

and live and labor with them during his life. le did not incur
a forfeiture; be had then purchased this right, and he enjoye4
it; hp lived, died, and was buried in the lands with his brethren
in the faith.
Can there be a doubt that all the parties were competent to
make this contract? But if there be a doubt, can a question
now arise as to their competency, since both parties kept it, and
executed it faithfully to the end?
No complaint on either side, of wrong or violation, until the
contract, as far as Goesele was concerned, was completely executed and ended.
But if this contract could not be -legally entered into by
Goe'sele with the other members, no valid contract whatever
was entered into by him or for him.
Bineler agreed to surrender this land to the association, to be
held in this manner, and on these conditions. He never did
agTee, and never would have agreed, to surrender it to these one
hundred and fifty men and women as a partnership, subject to
the consequences of partnerships, dissolution by the death or
withdrawal of a member, and consequent partition, at least three
thnes a year, of land and personalty.
If equity cannot sustain the contract which the parties did
make for themselves, it will not make a contract for them which
they never did make, and never intended to make, 6nd which
would defeat all their objects.
But it will carry'out the contract according to their intent,.
as far forth as the principles of law will permit. This will
readily and without a single difficulty, that I can discover, dispose of Goesele's interest, and consequently of this case.
Gocsele might, without the violation of any rule of law, give
his labor and property, if he had any, in consideration of the
provision for life herein made for him.
Binieler might, in like manner, bind his land in equity to make
good such provision.
3d. But I do not, for myself, perceive any serious difficulty
in transmitting the property, with the" personalty and the equitable title to the realty, in the manner Pdopted by these articles.
Cannot a man transfer the equitable title to his real estate to
ten men, designated as those who live .on it and have signed
the article of transfer with him, to be used and enjoyed by
them as long as they shall abide by the terms of the article,
and giving a right to the persons, to whom he so transfers, to
vest the same right iii others, in succession, who shall enter into
the same article in future, and comply with its conditions, the
majority having, as in this case, the power to sell and dispose
VOL. XIV.

51

'602

SUPREME COURT.
Goesele et al. v. Bimeler ,t al.

of the property, but required to apply the proceeds to the same
object??
This is nota perpetuity in the common-law'sense of the term;
it does not tie up real 'estate, for it may be disposed of at any
time. Such a limitation of the real estate, or its proceeds, would
be good, by the laws of Ohio, for the lives in being; and each
tenant for life, by his ovn signature, if the full estate at any
time vested in him or them, could equally well transmit it to
another life, and so in succession, a majority being at all times
able to terminate the succession at pleasure.
4th. But if I be wrong in this, and difficulty arise as to the
final disposition of the property, when the end cometh, which is
not yet, that difficulty is removed by the law of charitable uses,
considered in Mr. Stanberry's brief.
5th. And if this be not Lcharity, and as such protected by
equity, and'if the contract made by the parties for themselves
be invalid fo± the purposes intended, it is Still good as a y artnership with succession, by the express agreement of the parties,
an agreement, so'far, unobjectionable. All the property owned
in common, real as well as personal, is necessary to carry on the
partnership; it is, therefore, all personalty in equity. Aiud the
*partners, or a majority of them, can readopt, their rules or change
them at pleasure, and transmit their property by succession as
heretofore, or divide between the partners.
6th. But if it were indeed a partnership, we have .not the
'necessary parties iii court. The property is all personalty, and
neither executor nor administrator of Goesele is in court.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes bef6re the court on an appeal from the Circuit Court of the District of Ohio.
1u their bill the complainants represent that they are the heirs
at law of Johannes Goesele, who died at Zoar, in the county
of Tuscarawas, Ohio, in the year 1827; that the said Johannes,
in .his lifetime, associated himself with the defendants, Bimeler
and others, and formed a society of Separaotists, and in the year
1817 they purchased of one Godfrey Haga, of Philadelphia, a
tract of land situated in said county, containing 5,500 acres;
that afterwards other purchases were made, which, when added
to the first purchase, amounting to 10,000 acres, with a large
number of town lots, and other property procured about the
same time; that these purchases were made on behalf of Goesele,
deoeased, and his associates, and for their use, and the purchasemoney was paid by their joint labor and money; that Bimeler
ac.ted fraudulently as their agent, in taking the deed and title
papers to himself and his heirs forever.

DECEM]BER TERM, 1852.

803

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

They further represent that many of his associates sold their
interest to their ancestor, on leaving the society. And the defendants allege, that, as heirs of their ancestor, they are entitled
to one hundredth portion of the estate now held by Bimeler;
and that they have requested the defendants to make partition
of the estate, which has been refused; that Bimeler, although
often requested, has refused to convey to the complainants any
part of the estate; and they pray that he may be compelled to
give a full and true description of the property held by him as
stated; and that on a final hearing he may be decreed to make
partition of the said property, and to make a good deed in feesimple to the complainants, for so much of the said property as
may be found to belong to them.
In the year 1817, the members of the above association
emigrated from Germariv to the United States. They came
from the Kingdom of Wertemberg, where they had been known
for years as a religious society called Separatists. They were
much persecuted on account of their religion. Goesele, the
ancestor of the complainants, with another member, had been
imprisoned for nine years; and the safety of Bimeler depended
on his frequent changes of residence, and living in the utmost
privacy. In that country they sought to establish themselves
by purchasing land, but they found that the laws would not
allow them this privilege. Disheartened by persecution and injustice, they came to this country in pursuit of civil and religious
liberty. When they arrived at Philadelphia, they were in a
destitute condition. They were supported while in that city,
and enabled to travel to the place where they now live, by the
charities of the Friend Quakers of Philadelphia and of the city
of London. These contributions amounted to eighteen dollars
to each person.
A large majority of the society consisted of
children.
women and
While at Philadelphia, Bifmeler, the head and principal man
of the association, purchased, in his own name, from Godfrey
Haga,.the five thousand five hundred acres of land, as stated in
the bill. A credit of thirteen years was given, three years without interest. A deed to Bimeler and his heirs was executea for
the land, the 7th of M1lay, 1818; a mortgage to secure the consideration of $15,000 was executed. On their arrival at the
place of their destination, they found it an unbroken forest; their
means were exhausted, and they h~d no other dependence than
the labor of their hands. They were Lo strangers to a rigid
economy, and they were industrious fion, principle.
At the time of their settlement at Zoar, they did not contemplate a community of property. On the 15tli of April, 1819,
articles of association were drawn up and signed by the mer-

SUPREmE COURT.
Goeiele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

hers of the society, consisting of fifty-three males And one hundred and four females. In the preamble they say, "that the
members of the society have, in a 'spirit of Christian love,
agreed to unite in a communion of property, according to the
rules and regulations specified." The m?mbers renounce all
individual ownership of property, present or future, real or personal, and transfer the same to three directors, elected by themselves annually; that they shall conduct the business of the
society, take possession of all its property, and account to the
society for all their transactions. Members who leave the society are to receive no compensation for their labor or property
contributed, unless an allowance be made them by a majority
of the society.
These articles continued in force until the 18th of Mlareh,
1824, when amendatory articles were drawn up and signed by
the members at that time, consisting of sixty males and one
hundred females. In these articles an entire union of property
is declared, and a renunciation of individual ownership. Males
of the age of twenty-one, and females. of the age of eighteen,
become members by signing the articles. New members are
received in this -way. The directors elected by the society conduct the affairs of the association, and provide for the boarding,
lodging, and clothing of the members. The directors are to
apply themselves for the common benefit of the society, provide
for the children, determine disputes among the members, with a
right of appeal to 'the board of arbitration. Other provisions
were made for the expulsion of members, and the general good
order and welfare of the society.
In the year 1832, the society was ine6rporated by a law of the
State, which gave to them the ordinary powers of a corporation.
On the 14th of May, 1833, a constitution was adopted under
the act, which was signed by fifty-one males and one hundred
and three females. The constitution embodies substantially
the regulations contained in the preceding articles, and some
others conformably -with the corporate powers conferred.
This is the outline of the assbeiation formed at Zoar. It
appears a different plan was at first adopted. Each family was
to select from the general tract as many acres as it could pay
for, and improve it, living on its own industry, and from the
same -source paying for the land. But this plan was found impracticable, and in less than two years it "was abandoned, and
the first articles of association were adopted.
The ancestor of the complainant, as stated, died in 1827, a
member of the society. His name was signed to the articles of
1819 and 1824. There was no evidence iii the case conducing
toxprove any contract, except that which arises from the articles

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

605

Goesele et al v. Bimeler et al.

referred to. On the first payment made for the land, it appeared
that Goesele paid a small sum that remained unexpended of the
eighteen. dollars he received at Philadelphia.
The answer denies the allegations of the bill charging fraud,
and every allegation to charge the defendants, except the purchase of the land and the articles referred to.
It appears, by great industry, economy, good management,
and energy, the settlement at Zoar has prospered more than
any part of the surrounding country. It surpasses, probably,
all other neighborhoods in the State in the neatness and *productiveness of its agriculture, in the mechanic arts, and in manufacturing by machinery. The value of the property is now
estimated by complainant's counsel to be more than a million
of dollars. This is a most extraordinary advance by the labor
of that community, about two thirds of which consists of females.
In view of the facts stated, it is not perceived how the case
made in the bill can be sustained. A partition is prayed for;
but there is no evidence on which such a right can be founded.
The plan, as stated, first agreed upon at Zoar, for individual
proprietorship and labor, was abandoned in less than two years.
It was a parol contract, no consideration being plaid. No right
was acquired by the ancestor of the complainant on this ground.
He then signed the first articles, which, like the amended articles, renounced individual ownership of property, and an agreement was made to labor for the community, in common with
others, for their comfortable maintenance. All individual right
of property became merged in the general right of the association. He had no individual right,'and could transmit none to
his heirs. It is strange that the complainants should ask a partition through their ancestor, when, by the terms of his contract,
he could have no divisible interest. They who now enjoy the
property, enjoy it under his express contract.
But if there were a right of partition by the complainants,
there is no such statement in the bill as would authorize the
court to decree it. For the time that Goesele lived, what was
the value of his labor in comparison with the labor of the
others ? Twenty-five years have elapsed since his death. The
property has increased in value seven hundred per cent.; and
of this property partition is prayed. But there is not a shadow
of evidence to sustain the right. The proofs and the statements in the bill are as remote and inconsistent as can well be
conceived.
The fraud charged on Bimeler, in the purchase of the iand,
if true, could not help the case made in the bill. But the charge
has no foundation. Bineler purchased the land in his own
51*

SUPREME

COURT.

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

name, and became responsible for the payraent of the consideration. And he retained the title until the ?urchase-money was
paid, and an act of incorporation was obtained, when he signed
the articles, and placed the property under the control of the'
society, he having no greater interest in it than any other individual. But, before this, he openly declared that he h ld the
land in trust for the society. As an honest man, he could not
change, if in his power, the relation he bore to the vendor, until
the consideration was paid. In this mater, the conduct of
Bimeler is not only not fraudulent, but it was above reproach.
It was wise and most judicious to secure the best interests of
the association.
The articles of 1819 and 1824 are objected to as not constituting a contract which a court of equity would enforce. And
it is said that chancery will not enforce a forfeiture. As a general rule, chancery may not enforce a forfe.turc; but will it relieve an individual from his contract, entered into fairly, and for
a valuable consideration? What is there in either of these
articles that is contrary to good morals, or that is opposed to
the policy of the laws ? An association of individuals is formed
under a religious influence, who are in a destitute condition,
having little to rely on for their support but their industy; and
they agree to labor in common for the good of the society, and
a comfortable maintenance for each'individual; and whatever
shall be acquired beyond this shall go to the common stock.
This contract provides fo? every member of the community, in
sickness and in health, and under whatsoever misfortune may
occur. And this is equal, to the independence and comforts
ordinarily enjoyed.
The ancestor of the complainants entered into the contract
fairly and with a full understanding of its conditions. The
consideration of his comfortable maintenance, under all circumstances, was deemed by him an adequate compensation for his
labor and property contributed to the common stock. But it is
not shown that Goesele or any other member contributed to the
general fund, with the exception of a small sum by Goesele,
which, probably, could not have exceeded flve" dollars. The
members of the association were poor, and were unable to contribute any thing but labor. In this way the land purchased by
Bimeler was paid for.
The complainants speak of the interest of their ancestoi in
the real and personal estate, owned by the association, and their
counsel contend that the articles did not divest him of either,
but both descended to his heirs at law at his death.
This argument does not seem to comprehend the principles
of the association. Land and other property were to be ac-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

607

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

quired by the members, but they were not to be vested with the
fee of the land. While they remained in the society, under its
general regulations, the products of their labor on the land and
otherwise were applied, so far as necessary, to thet support.
Beyond this, they were to have no interest in the land or in the
personal property. Many of the members were aged females,
others, from sickness or disease, were unable to labor, btqt every
one, whether able to labor or not, was provided for by the labor
of the community. . This was a benevolent scheme, and fronm
its character might be properly denominated a charity. But
from the nature of the association and the object to be attained,
it is clear the individual members could have no rights to the
property, except its use, under the restrictions imposed by the
articles. The whole policy of the association was founded on
a principle which excluded individual ownership. Such an
ownership would defeat the greet object in view, by necessarily
giving to the association a temporary character. If the interests
of its members could be transferred, or pass by' descent, the
maintenance of the community would be impossible. In the
natural course of things the ownership of the property in a few
years, by transfer and descent, would pass out of the community into the hands of strangers, and thereby defeat the object
in view.
By disclaiming all indidual ownership of the property
acquired by their labor, for the benefits secured by the articles,
the members give durability to the fund accumulated, and to
the benevolent purposes to which it is applied. No legal objection is perceived to such a partnership. If members separate themselves from the society their interest in the property.
ceases, and new members that may be admitted, under the.
articles, enjoy the advantages common to all.
The counsel for the complainants imagine the original members possessed property, real and personal, before they entered
into the association, which is contrary to the facts of the case,
and then contend that, having executed no conveyance of the
property, on the death of the member it descended to h*s heirs
at law.
It is always desirable that legal principles 'should be applied to
the facts of the case. When the members first formed the association they were destitute of property. The purchase 6f the
land by Bimeler had been made, but not paid for; and the
members had no means of payment but by the labor of their
hands. This they agreed to give, in consideration of being supported in sickness and in health, disclaiming, at the same time,
any individual claim of ownership to any propertywhich should
be acquired by the community. This statement of facts ob-

608

SUPREME COURT.
Goesele et al.

v.

Bimeler et al.

viates many of the objections urged by complainants' counsel.
If the members of the association had no interest in the land
when they signed the articles, now conveyance of it by them was
necessary. They stipulated -a compensation for their future
labor in the support to be given them, and disclaimed the ownership of all property acquired.
It is said, where a member is excommunicated or leaves the
society ie forfeits his rights, and that chancery will not enforce
a forfeiture. What is the extent of this forfeiture ? It is the
right to a support from the society. And this is certainly reasonable. Can a member expect to be supported by the society,
when he refuses to perform his part of the contract which entitles him to a support? He claims pay for his labor. He has
been paid for this, in pursuance of his own contract. In sickness and in health he has been clothed and led, and a home
providbd for him. But he claims payment for property which
he surrendered to the association at the time he became a
member of it, by signing the articles. The ownership of this
property he relinquished to his associates as a part of the contract; and for the considerations named, all the demands for
such property in the language of the articles signed, "the
individual abolished and abrogated for himself and his heirs."
Can property thus conveyed be deemed forfeited, if not
recoverable? A forfeiture is against the will of the owner.
Where property is conveyed under a fa-'r contract and for a
valuable consideration, is not the term fcrfeited misapplied, if
such conveyance le held valid? Chancery is not asked to
enforce a forfeiture in this case. No property is shown to have
been transferred to the association by the ancestor of the complainants. But if property had been given by the ancestor,
would a court of chancery direct such property to be surrendered or paid for against the express contract of the owner?
The surrender or giving up of the property was a part of the
consideration on which the association stipulated to support
him. It cannot be separated from that agreement. And it is
clear, where the fault of not carrying oul; the contract is not
attributable to the association, but to the member, he cannot
have the aid of a court of chancery.
Do the articles constitute a perpetuity ? We all think that
they do not. They provide for the continuance of the association an indefinite period of time, in the exercise of the discretion of its members. But there is no obligation to this extent.
The majority of the members may require a sale of the property
and break up the association. In fact the majority governs, by
the election of officers. Members may be expelled from the
society and new ones admitted, under established rules. Whilst

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Gbesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

the society has the means of perpetuating its existence, it may
be said to depend for its continuance, on the will of a majority
of its members.
As the law now stands in England, a conveyance by executory devises, to be good, cannot extend beyond a life or lives in
being, and twenty-one years and the fraction of another year,
to reach the case of a posthumous child. Atkinson v. Hutchin3 P. Wms. 258; Long v. Blackall, 7 Term, R. 100.
.son,
There
are many depositions in the case, taken in behalf
of
the complainants, by persons who have been expelled from the
society, or, having left it, show a strong hostility to Bimeler.
They represent his conduct as tyrannical and oppressive to the
members of the association, and as controlling its actions absolutely. And several instances are given to impeach his moral
character and his integrity. Two of the witnesses say that he
drives a splendid carriage and horses.
In regard to the carriage, it is proved to be a very ordinary
one, worth about three hundred dollars, one of his horses worth
about twenty dollars and the other thirty or forty. By respectable persons out of the society, Bimeler's character is sustained
for integrity and morality, and several instances are given
where, even in small matters, he deferred to the decision of the
trustees against his own inclination. And many facts are
proved wholly inconsistent with the charge of oppression.
That Bimeler is a man of great energy and of high capacity
for business, cannot be doubted. The present prosperity of
Zoar is evidence of this. There are few men to be found any
where, who, under similar circumstances, would have been
eq.ally successful. The people of his charge are proved to be
moral and religious. It is said that, although the society has
lived at Zoar for more than thirty years, no criminal prosecution
has been instituted against any one of its members. The most
respectable men who live near the village say, that the industry
and enterprise of the-people of Zoar have advanced property in
the vicinity ten per cent.
Bimeler has a difficult part to act. As the head and leader
of the society, Iis conduct is narrowly watched, and often
misconstrued. Nt rrow minds, in such an association, will be
influenced by petty jealousies and unjust surmises. To insure
success these must be overcome or disregarded. The most
exemplary conduct and conscientious discharge of duty may
not protect an individual from censure. On a full view of the
evidence we are convinced that, by a part of the witnesses,
great injustice is done to the character of Bimelei. On a
deliberate consideration of all the facts in the case, we think
there is no ground to authorize the relief prayed for by the

610

SUPREME COURT.
Deacon v. Oliver et al.

complainants.
affirmed.

The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof
it is now here okdered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed .with costs.

JOHN DEACON, APPELLANT, V. UMARLES OLIVER AND RODERT
M. GIBBES, EXECUTORS OF ROBErhT OLIVER, DECEASED.
Under the attachment laws of Maryland, a share in the Baltimore Mexican Company, which had fitted out an expedition under General Mina, was not, in 1827,
the subject of an attachment under a judgment, whether such share was held by
the garnishee under a power of attorney to collect the proceeds, or under ad equitable assignment to secure a debt.
The answers of the garnishee to interrogatories filed, were literally correct. He had
not in his hands any "funds, evidences of debt, stocks, certificates of stock,"
belonging to the debtor, nor "any acknowledgment by the Mlexican government,"
on which an attachment could be laid.

Tnis wat an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the -District of Maryland, sitting as a court of
equity.
The bill was filed by John Deacon, the -.urviving partner of
Baring, Brother & Company, of London, under the following
circumstances:
In 1821, Baring, Brother & Company obtained a judgment,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, against one Lyde Goodwin for $60,000, upon a bill
of exchange, to be released on payment of $41,005.58, with
interest and costs. Goodwin was 8rt this time the owner of one
ninth share in the M'exican Ccrdpany,' the history of which is
given in the. report of the case of Gill v. Oliver's Executors,
11 How. 529. This judgment was kept alive until the issuing
of the attachment hereafter spoken of, in 1826.
On the 19th of July, 1823, the government of Mexico passed
a decree, declaring that General Mina, amongst other persons,
-was a benefactor of his country; and on the 28th of June, 1824,
another decree, acknowledging the debts contracted by the
Generals declared to have been benefactors.
On the 11th of January, 1825, Lyde Goodwin addressed a

