DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

351

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

was not made as a part of the marital community. The. conveyance to the mother and the declared object of it, negatives
suVh a presumption.
Acquired as the property was, the law denominates it adventitious. It came to their daughter through her mother. In this
view, it is contended that the usufruct was in the father, "who
is bound to defend and preserve it, both in court and out;" 3
Las Siate Partidas, 149, and that he-haa power to convey it.
From the terms of conveyance, it is clear that Mexia assumed
to act, not in his own right, but in the character of father and
-natural tutor, and by authorization of his wife.. The instrument
purports to convey the title of his daughter, which admitted the
right to be in her. The letter of the wife, as he supposed, was
evidence of a family meeting required by law, and under which
he assumned to act.
A guardian cannot dispose of the property of his ward without the permission of the judge of his domicil. 1 White's
Recop. 15 and 16, Part 4, L. 14, tit. 11, p. 4. During the minority of the child, the only right of the father is, to take the usufruct. He has no power to sell the property of the minor, except for certain purposes, bnd under the sanction of the Judge.
2) Part. 1137. The conveyance to Merle was not made as the
law requires, and it was therefore void. It was not valid under
the laws of Louisiana, nor under the laws of Texas and Coahuila.
The decree'of the District Court is affirmed.
dm
Mr. Justice NELSON concurred in the result to which the
above ophiion arrived.
Ordr.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by connsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

THE GENERAL MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. EBENEZER B. SHERWOOD.
Under a policy insuring against the usual perils of the sea, including bahnatry, the
underwriters are not liable to repay to *i insured, damages paid by him to the

SUPREME COURT.
General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.
owners of another vessel and cargo, suffered in a collision occasioned by the negligence of the master or mariners of the vehsel insured.
A policv cannot be so construed as to insure against all losses directly referable to
the negligence of the master and mariners. But if the lois is caused by a peril of
the sea. the underwriter is responsible, although the master did not use due care to
avoid the peril

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
It was an action of assumpsit brought by Sherwood against
the General Mutual Insurance Company, upon a policy of insurance, dated New York, 17th of- October, 1843, by which the
company insured Sherwood to the amount of $8,000, for the
account of whom it might concern, loss paya.ble to him, upon the
brig Emily, from the 17th Ocfober, 1843, at noon, until the 17th
October, 1844, at noon, the vessel being valued in the policy at
$16,000.
This policy wds effected for the benefit, a'id to protect me interest 6f Frederick Sherwood and Abraham Sherwood, part
owners of said vessel.
On the 13th March, 1844, the brig sailed Irom Charleston
with a cargo of~merchandise, bound for New¢ York, being at the
time provided with a skilful and experienced master, experienced
and skilful mates, and a competent crew, and was in all respects
seaworthy for the voyage.
About 5 &'clock in the afternoon of Tuesday, 19th March, a
licensed pilot boarded them, and took the command and managenient of the vessel. The wind being unfavorable, the brig ran,
closehauled, heading north and north by cast, until the pilot
considered himself up to the point of the Romer Shoals; he
then tacked and stood in for Sandy Hook, heading to the southward and westward, closehauled. Between 7 and 8 o'clock at
night, the pilot gave orders to go about; in attempting to execute this order, the brig misstayed, and the pilot then gave orders
to wear ship. At this time, and wvhilst in the act of wearing,
being very close to the shore, the rigging of the vessel having
become entangled, and the crew being occupied with the manceuvring of their vessel, the first mate, who was on the top-gallant forecastle, saw a schooner very close to them. Confused
by this sudden appearance, his attention in keeping a sharp lookout having been distracted by his attending to the working of
the vessel, he, in this sudden emergency, exclaimed, "helm hard,
down! luff! luff!" The man at the wheel obeyed, and almost
instantaneously the brig struck the schooner, which proved to
be "The Virginian," bound from Norfolk, with a full cargo of
merchandise, for New York. The order given by the mate to
"luff,' 2 was erroneous.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

353

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.
The brig Emily was injured by the collision to the amount
of $300; the schooner Virginian was so much injured that she
sunk, and with her cargo was totally lost.
On the 26th March, 1844, the owners of the schooner filed
their libel in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, against the brig .Emily, claiming that she was specifically liable for the loss and injury occasioned by the libel.
The owners of the Emily filed their answer, denying that the
collision -Vas occasioned by the fault of those in charge of her,
and imputing the blame to the creiv of the Virginian. On the
12th October, 1845, the cause was brought to a hearing, and
witnesses examined on both sides.
On the 22d April, 1845; Judge Betts pronounced his opinion
to be, that the b ig Emily was to leeward of the Virginian when
the latter was first seen; that no sufficient and proper look-out
was kept on board her at the time; that the intermission, for the
moment, of their precautionary vigilance on board the Emily,
might very naturally'spring out of a confusion likely to arise
from the failure of the vessel to come round 'to the wind, her
dangerous proximity to the shore, the entanglement of some of
the running rigging which impeded her manoeuvre, and the distraction these circumstances were calculated to produce in the
attention of the mate, who, at the moment, appeared to have
been the only one acting as look-out forward; but that these circurnstances did not relieve the vessel from maintaining these
precautions, and from the consequences of the omission to do
s; and the Judge accordingly held, that the collision occurred by
the negligence or fault of the brig. He decreed in favor of the
libellants for the 'value of the schooner 'Virginian, and of so
much of the cargo as belonged to her owners. It was referred
to the clerk to ascertain and report the amount of the loss and
damage. The cause came on to be heard on the 3d of June,
1845, upon the clerk's report and exceptions thereto. The court
ordered and decreed, that the libellants recover their damages
by means of the premises, viz. $5,25W, with their costs, and
that the brig Emily be condemned for satisfaction thereof; the
libellants' costs were taxed at $704pg. On the 3d July, 1845,
the owners of the Emily appealed to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, and in
November, 1846, tue appeal was argued before Mr. Justice
Nelson.
On the 6th April, 1847, Judge Nelson delivered his opinion,
and found, upon the proofs, in substance, that the Virginian was
not in fault; that the mistaken order of the mate of the brig to
the man at the wheel, in connection with the derangement of
30 '.

354

SUPREME COURT.
General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

the running rigging of the vessel, and tHe confusion on board
from her misstaying a few minutes befcre, had produced the
collision. The Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District
Court, with costs. This decree was settled by compromise, and
upon payment by the owners of a sum less than the decree, it
was satisfied. Early notice of the pendency of the action in
the District Court, and also of the appeal to the Circuit Court,
was given to the Mutual Safety Insurance Company, with a
request that they would unite in the defence, or take such measures as they might deem proper.
Owners of other parts of the cargo lost by the collision, filed
their libels against the Virginian, which, after the decrees above
mentioned, were settled by compromise; other claims were also
made, and settled by compromise; in every instance, the sum paid
being less than the claim. On the 23d August, 1847, the owners
of the brig Emily, haviihg previously presented to their various
underwriters preliminary proofs of the loss, copies of the proceedings in the District and Circuit Courts, and of the payment
and settlement of the demands aforesaid, commenced suits upon
the policies of insurance, in the Circuit Court of the United
States. The declaration filed in the present action contains two
special counts, and the common money counts.
The special counts, set forth all the facts and circumstances
with great particularity.
The defendants filed demurrers to each of the special counts,
assigning as cause, that neither of the said counts showed any
loss or damage by any peril- covered by the policy of insurance.
The plaintiff below joined in demurrer.
The cause was argued in April, 1848, before his Honor, Mr.
Justice Nelson, and the Hon. Samuel R. 8efts. Judgment was
given upon the demurrer in favor of the plaintiff below. The
defendants did not interpose any other answer to the two special
counts, but to the common counts (III. IV. V. and VI.) they
pleaded the general issue.
The court having decided the demurrers, ordered the damages
to be assessed under the special counts. In May, 1849, the jury
assessed the plaintiff's damages at $4,526-P.
Judgment was
1849.
signed 5th June,
Upon the assessment of the damages, the defendant's counsel
prayed the court to instruct the jury1. That the general objection to the recovery of the plaintiff,
was, that [it] is apparent, on the face of the declaration, that the
loss claimed was not occasioned by a peril insured against, but
was to be attributed solely to the gross negligence of the agents
of the assured, and therefore, that the loss was either'an exception
from the terins of the policy, or Was not cbvered by them at all.

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

355

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.
2. That the rule "causa proxina no- renzota spectatur," in its
proper application, relieves the defendants from all liability;
since the. proximate cause here was, according to the decree of
the District and Circuit Court, "the fault of the Emily." The
collision by itself did not create the liability to pay. The want
of care, skill, and vigilance oil the part of the master and crew
of the Emily were to be superadded to the collision.
3. That if the negligence and fault of the assured, and not
the collision, were the proximate cause of the loss, such fauit
ard negligence in this case, (witho'ut which the decree would
not have been made,) should certainly excuse the underwriters.
4. That even if the insurer is liable for the amount of the
claim against the Emily for the loss of the schooner, it does not
follow that he is also liable for the loss of the cargo on board
the schooner Virginian. No case has yet carried the liability of
the underwriter to this extent.
5. That the cost of defending the suits are not chargeable
upon the underwriters.
6. That the counsel fees to the advocate are clearly inadmis
sible.
apWhereupon his honor, the Judge, charged the jury :-It
peared, from the evidence, that the brig Emily sailed from
Charleston, for New York, on the thirteenth day of March, in
the year 1841, with a cargo of cotton and other merchandise;
that on the afternoon of the 18th day of Iareh, aforesaid, being
near Barnegat, she took aboard a licensed pilot, and proceeded
towards New York, the wind being boisterous, and blowing in
flaws; that between 7 and 8 o'clock in the evening she stood
over for the Romer Shoals, closehauled on a wind, heading for
Sandy Hook. Finding that the brig could not fetch in to the
Hook upon that tack, and having run as close to the beach as he
deemed prudent, the pilot gave orders to tack ship; in consequence of the maintopsail-brace being slacked the vessel did
not go about, and orders were then given by the pilot to wear
ship, and whilst in the act of wearing, the mate of the Emily
discovered a &ailclose by, which proved to be the schooner Virginian, bound for New Yolk, with a cargo on board; the mate
cried out, sail ahead! but almost immediately thereafter the
brig struck the schooner and sunk her, with her cargo. The
owners of the schooner Virginian filed their libel in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, before referred to, against the brig Emily alleging that the
collision was occasioned by the fault and mismanagement of
those having charge of the Emily. An answer was filed by the
owners of the latter, denying that the collision was properly
attributable to the Emily; and, on the contrary, alleging that it

SUPREME COUPT.
General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

was occasionedl by the fault and unskilful.ess of those on board
of the schooner; proofs were taken in the District Court, and
the cause having been heard upon the pleadings and proofs, an
interlocutory decree was pronounced therein on the twentysecond day of April, in the year 1846, whereby, after reciting
that it appeared to the court that the said collision, and the
damages and loss incurred by the libellant in consequence
thereof, occurred by the negligence or fault of the said brig
Emily, it was considered that the libellnts were entitled to
recover the damages by them sustained thereby; and by which
decree a reference was ordered, to aseer:ain the value of the
said schooner Virginian, her tackle, &c., at the time of the collision, and of the cargo then on board of her, belonging to the
libellants, and the amount of the loss in the premises sustained
by the libellmnts by means of such collision; and afterwards,
the said cause having again been heard upon exceptions to tie
report, and the proofs qnd allegations of the respective parties,
a final decree was pronounced thereon oE the seventh day of
June, in the year 1845, whereby it was ordered, adjudged, and
decreed, by the said District Court, that the libellants recover in
the said action their damages, by means of the premises, the
sum of five thousand two hundred and fifty-four dollars and
seventy cents, together with their costs to be taxed; and that the
said brig, her-tackle and apparel, be condemned for satisfaction
thereof, which said costs of the libellants were afterwards duly
taxed at $704.96. From this decree an a.ppeal was taken, by
the owners of the brig Emily, to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, in the second
circuit, and after hearing the proofs and the arguments of counsel, the court affirmed the decree of the District Court, with the
costs of the respondents to be taxed. After the decision of this
court had been pronounced, another libel was filed by the owners
of a portion of the cargo lost on board the Virginian, against
the brig Enily, and claims were made, and'libels threatened by
others of the.shippers of the cargo lost on board of the schooner,
against the owners of the Emily, which action and claims by
the owners, of the said cargo were compromised and settled by
the owners of the Efiiily. That if they should find, upon the
evidence, that, at the time of sailing from Charleston, the brig
Emily was a seaworthy vessel, properly equipped for the voyage
to New York, and that she had on board a skilful master, and a
sufficient and competent crew, the defehdants are liable upon
the policy given in evidence for the one half of the lob-s to
the brig Emily, arising from the collision with the schooner Virginian, not exceeding the sum insured, notwithstanding that it
was occasioned by, or resulted from, the fault of the pilot, or of

DECEMBER TERM, 1852,

357

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

the master and crew of the brig, either from want of keeping a
sufficient look-out or from mismanagement of the vessel.
The direct and immediate consequence of the collision was
that a lien was created on the brig, in favor of the owners of
the Virginian, and of the owners of the cargo on board of her,
to the extent of the value of the schobner, and of the cargo that
was destroyed by the disaster, and the plaintiff is entitled to
recover from the underwriters, not only the cost of the actual
repairs of the injury done to the brig, but also the several sums
that her owners have actually and in good faith paid to the
owners of the schooner, and of the cargo lost with her, in order
to discharge their vessel from the liens created by the said collision ; that the plaintiff is also entitled to recover fibm the underwriters on the brig the actual expenses and costs, including
reasonable advocate's fees, necessarily incurred in the defence
if the brig from the aforesaid claim.
The policy of insurance, in this case, is subscribed for $8,000,
the vessel being valued therein at $16,000; it was therefore an
insurance upon one half of the vessel, and the defendants are
consequently liable for one half only of the los; and damage
sustained by the assured in consequence of the said collision
which the jury shall find, upon the evidence, was actually and
properly paid by the owners of the Emily, in order to relieve
their vessel.
The counsel for the defendant then and there excepted to saiW
charge, so far as the same differed from, or did not conform to.
the instructions prayed for by him, as above.
The jury thereupon rendered a verdict for the plaintiff, for
four thousand five hundred and thirty-sLx dollars and thirty-four
cents damages, and six cents costs.
And because the said several matters so offered and given in
evidence, and insisted upon by the defendants aforesaid, and the
charge of the said Judge, and the said exceptions taken to the
same, do not appear by the record of the verdict aforesaid, the
said defendants have caused the same to be written on this bill
of exceptions, to be annexed to such record, and-have prayed
the said Judge to set his hand and seat to the same. *Whereupon the Hon. Samuel Nelson, the associate Justice before
-whom the said issues were tried, and said exceptions taken, and
one of the judges of said Circuit Court, hath hereto set his hand
and seal, this twenty-eighth day of November, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-'one.
Upon this bill of exceptions, and the judgment of the court
upon the demurrers, the case came up to this court.
It was argued by i1r. A. Hamilton, r., for the plaintiffs in

SUPREME COURT.
General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

error, and Mr. Butler, with whom wds Mr. Cutting, for the defendant in error.
The points made on the part of the plaintiff in error, were
the following.
I. The general objection to the recovery of the plaintiff is,
that it is apparent, on the face of the declaration, that the loss
that is claimed was not occasioned by a peril insured against;
but is to be attributed solely to the gross negligence of the agents
of the assured. Hence the loss is either an exception from the
terms of th6 policy, or is not covered by them at all. Emerigon,
vol. 1, p. 429,-(Ed. 1827, 329, 336) ; Tanner v. Bennett, 1 Ry &
Moody, 182; Surdet v. Hall, 4 Bing. 607; 2 Arnold, 775, 770,
777, eases cited.

II. The rule "causa proxima non remotz spectatur;"1 in its
proper application, relieves the defendant from all liability, since
the proximate cause here was, according to the decree of the
District and Circuit Courts, "the fault of the Emily." The
collision, by itself, did not create the liability to pay. The want
of skill, care, and vigilance on the part of the master and crew
of the Emily was to be superadded to the collision. Paddock
p. Franklin Insurance Company, 11 Pick. 227; American Insurance Company v. Ogden, 20 Wend. 287; Starbuck v. New
England Marine Insurance Company, 19 Pick. 198; Robinsoh
v. Jones, 8 Mass. 536.
I]fI. If, then, the negligence and fault of the assured, and not
the collision, were the proximate cause of the loss, such fault
and negligence, in this case, (without which the decree Tould
-not have been made,) should certainly excuse the underwriters.
Hazard v. New England Insurance Company,, 1 Sumn. 218; 3
Kent, 5th"ed. p. 176, note. a. 371, 373; Copeland v. New England Insurance. Company, 2 Metcq'f, 432 ;. Cleveland v. Union
Insurance-Company, 8 Mass. 308; B;adhurst v. Col. Insurance
Company, 9 Johns. 17-21; Potter v. Stffolk Insurance Company,
2 Sumn. 197; Galbraith v. Gracie, 1 Wash. C. C. R. 219.
IV. But even if the insurer is liable for the amount of the
decree against the Emily, for the loss of the schooner, it does
not follow that he is also liable for the loss of the cargo on
board the schooner. No case has yet carried: the liability of the
underwriter to this extent.
The points made by the counsel fbr the defendant in error
were the following.
I:- The underwriters .are responsible for losses by any of the
perils insured against, although such losses may have been occasioned by, or have resulted from, the negligence or fault of
the master or crew. If the assured has provided a seaworthy

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

859

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

vessel, -with a skilful master and a sufficienrf and corripetent
crew, the underwriter takes the risks, of navigation, and of the
perils insured against, although caused by the negligence, caxeessness or unskilfulness of the master and crew. Peters v.
Warren Ins. Co. 14 Peters, 99;, Peters v. Warren Ins. Co. 3
Sumn. 389; Waters v. Merchants Ins. Co. 11 Peters,$213; Columbia Ins. Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Peters, 507; Patapsco- Ins. Co.
v. Coulter, 3 Peters's R. 222; Hale v. Wash. Ins. Co. 2 Story
R. 176; Smith's Mereant. Law,; (Amer. Edit.) 347; Sadler v.
Dixon, 8 Mees. & Welsby, 895; Dixon v. Sadler, 5 M. & Welsb 405; Bush v. The Royal Ex. Ins. Co. 2 B. & Aid. 73;
Taker v. Maitland, 5 B. & Ald. 174; Bishop v. Pentland, 7
B. & C. 219; Shorer v. Bentall, 7 B. & C. 798, n.; Henderson
v. Western Mar. & F. Ins. Co. 10 Robinson, 164; Copeland v.
. Eng. Mar. Ins. Co. 2 Mefca.f, 432; 'Perrins, Adin'r, v. Protect.
Ins. Co. 11 Ohio R. 147; Park, Ins. 482, (Eng. Edit. of 1842,
page 156.) Grim v. Phenix Ins. Co. 13 Johns. 451; in this
country, and Law v. Hollingsworth, 7 Term R. 156, in England, and other cases decided about the same time, axe not correct ift principle, are 'now generally disapproved of, and axe shbstantially overruled. Opinion of Betts, J., in this case, 1 Blatchford's R. 251.
II. A loss by collision is one of the perils insured against, as
much so as loss by fire, stranding, capture, &c. If it occurs
without fault.on the part of the insured vessel, it is conceded
that the underwriters are bound to indemnify the assured
against loss; and, upon principle and authority, the insurers are
equally liable if the collision happerns through the fault, mistake, error of judgment, or carelessness of the vessel insured.
Peters v. Warren Ins. Co. 14 Peters's R. 99; S. aX 3 Sum.
389; Hale v. Washington Ins. Co. 2 Story, 176; 1 Phill. Ins.
636.
II. Thedirect and immediate consequence of the collision
was that, eo instanti, a charge, encumbrance or lien Was created
on the ship to the -extent of the injury done to the Virginian
and cargo. This charge caused the-negessity of an expenditure
by the assured, without which he could not extricate nor repossess himself of his vessel. This loss is as direct a consequence
of the collision as if the Emily had been injured so as to have
required repairs by carpenters to the same amount
IV. The underwriters are liable not only for the 'amount of
the lien or charge that was created in favor of the owners of
the Virginian, bat also for the lien or charge created by the
destruction of the cargo, and for which the Emily'was specifically liable in ren.
V. The defendants are responsible for all the costs, charges,

360

SUPREME

COURT0

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

and expenses, fairly and reasonably incurred by the plaintiff below, in defending the vessel from the claims made against her;.
this'is necessary to afford him a full indemnity; and the clause
in the poicy, rendering it proper and necessary to sue for labor
and 'travel in and about the defence, safeguard and recovery of
the vessel,, contemplates and provides for i;. See 2 Phillips on
Ins. 509,749, 464; 1 Id.693. Hastie v. De Peyster, 3 Caines's
Rep. 190- a case of reinsurance; suit against the first insurer defended, and a recovery with costs -principal
opinion
by Kent, C. J. -," Such charges are allove6,. as composing part
of.a claim for indemnity." Per Livingston, J.: Plaintiffs gave
notice to defendants, who took no steps to prevent the progress
,of,the suit to judgment; all the costs of that suit, both plaintiffs' and defendants', are a proper charge in this: "'not pretended that its defence was unnecessary or improper." 1 Story's Rep. 458; Hale v. Wash. Jns. Co. 2 Story, 176; Peters v.
Warren Ins. Co. 14 Peters's Rep. 99, (p. 100, near the foot.)
"Expenses of defending the suit" for a collision, included in the
adjustment Watson v. Marine Ins. Co. 7 Johns. Rep. 57-a'
case of capture and recovery for a total loss, and also expenses
of the captain in endeavoring to obtain the release and restoration of the ship; travelling, board, wages, and 1,105 livres left
in the hands of the consignees, to prosecute an appeal to the
Council of State; items were subject to opinion of court;
another charge was deducted; the abo4e allowed; Jumel v.
Marine Ins. Co. 7 Johns. Rep. 412, 426 -cise of' capture, condemnation, appeal, compromise, sale; purchase by master;
held master not bound by appeal; only to act in good faith and
sound discretion, &c. Gardere v.. Columbia .Ins. Co. 7 3. R.
514, (same principles.) Francis v. Ocean Ins. Co.6 Cowen, 404,
affirmed, 2 Wend. 64-seizure as for illicit trade -irregular
condemnation and sale, no defence by master, &c. Expense incurred in prosecuting a claim for the proceeds of the ship.
Held;" entitled to recover all the expense fairly incurred in obtaining a restoration of the proceeds of the vessel." Bridge v.
Niagara Ins. Co. 1 Hall's Sup. Ct. R. 423 -- salvage expenses,
including costs of legal proceedings to' ascertain validity and
amount of salvage claims, storage of cargo, bottomry, expenses,
protests, surveys, wages and provisions, whilst seeking a port of
refitting, and .many other instances of chaxges and expenses,
resulting from and incident to losses by perils insured against.
9 Wend. 416, Ricket v. Snyder - In,an aztion' for breach of
covenant of seisin, the plaintiff is entitled to recover counsel
fees as well as taxable bosfs incurred in defending the premises.
The covenant of seisin is on of indemnity. 2 Phill. Ins. 464,
50a, 749. 1 Id. 693.- The defence' in the District Court, and

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

General Mutual Inosurance Company v. Sherwood.

on appeal in the Circuit Court, of the ilel, by the owners of
the Virginian, (owners al4o of some of the cargo,) and the'decisions thereon, justified the plaintiff in compromising the other
claims without litigation. By such compromises he greatly
diminished the sum for which the defendants were liable. He
was entitled to recover if he had pad -the amounts withodt
litigation. Hale v. Washington Ins. Co. 2 Story, 176.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of .New York.
The action was assumpsit on a time policy of insurance, subscribed by'the plaintiffs in error, upon the brig Emily, during
one year from the seventeenth day of October, 18,43, for the
sum of eight thousand dollars, the vessel being valued at the
sum of sixteen thousand dollars. The policy, desoribed in the
declaration, assumed to insure against the usual sea perils,
among which is barratry of the master and mariners. The
declaration avers, that during the prosecution of a voyage,
within the policy, while on the high seas, and near the entrance
of the harbor of the city of New York, by and through the
want of a proper look-out, by the mate of the said brig, and,
by and through the erroneous order of the chief mate, who was
stationed on the top-gallant forecastle of the said brig, who saw
the schooner, hereinafter named, and cried out to the man at the
wheel, "helm bard down-luff"-whereas, he ought not to
ha,ve given the said order; and, by and through the negligence
and fault of the said brig Emily, the said brig ran into a schooner
called the Virginian, and so injured her that she sank, whereby
the said brig Emily became liable to the owners of thd said
schooner and her cargo, to make good their damages; which
liability -%tas a charge and encumbrance on the said brig. The
declaration then proceeds to aver, that the brig was libelled, by
the owners of the schooner and her cargo, in the District Court
of the United States; that a decree was there made, whereby
it was adjudged, "That the'collision in the pleadings mentioned,
and the darnages and loss incurred by the libellants, in consequence thereof, occurred by the negligence or fault of the said
brig, and that the libellants were entitled -to 'recover their
damages by them sustained thereby; "' that the same having
been assessed, a decree therefor was made by the District Court,
which, on appeal, -as affirmed by the Circu it Court, which
found, " That the hands, on board the Emily, failed to. keep a
proper look-out, and, that the said brig might have avoided, the
collision, by the use of proper caution, skill, and vigilant:e" The
declaration further avers, that the plaintiff has paid divers sums
VOL. XIV.

31

362

SUPREME COURT.
Geueral Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood,

of money, to satisfy this decree and the expenses of making the
defence, amounting to the sum of eight thousand dollars.
This statement of the substance of the declaration, presents
the question which has been here argued, and sufficiently shows
how it arose; for, although there was a d.emurrer to the first two
counts in the declaration, and a trial upon the general issue
,pleaded to the other counts, and a bill of exceptions taken to the
ruling at the trial, yet the same question is presented by each
mode of trial, and that, question is, whether, under a policy insuring against the usual perils, including barratry, the underwriters are liable to repay -to the insured, damages paid by him
to the owners of another vessel and cargo, suffered in a collision
occasioned by the negligence of the master or mariners of the
vessel insured.
The great and increasing internal navigation of the .United
States, carried on over long distances, tkough the channels of
rivers and other comparatively narrow waters, where the dar ger
of collisions, and the frequency of their occurrence, are much
greater than on maritime voyages, renders the respective rights
of underwriters and insured, growing out of such occurrences,
of more moment in this than in any other civilized country;
and the courj has considered the inquiry presented by this case,
with the care which its difficulty and its importance demand.
In examiiing, for the.frst time, any question under a policy
of insurance, it is necessary to ascertain whether the contract
has received a practical construction, by merchants and underwriters; not through any partial or loial usages, but by the
general consent of the mercantile world. Such a practical construction, when clearly apparent, is of great weight, not only
because the parties to the policy may be presumed to have contracted in refer4nce to it, but bc,-ause such a practice is very
high evidence of the general convenience ana substantial equity
of it, as a rule. This is true of most commercial contracts;
but it is especially true of a policy of insurance, which has been
often declared to be an "obscure, incoherent, and very strange
instrument," and, "g4enerally more informal than any other
brought into a court of justice :" (Per Buller, J.,4 T. R. 219;
Mansfield, C. J., 4 Taunt. 380 ;- Marshal, C. J., 6 Cr. 45 ; Lord
Mansfield, 1, Bur. 347) ; but which, notwithstanding the number
mid variety of the interests which it inbraces, and of the events
by which it is affected, has been reduced to much certainty, by
the long practice of acute and well-informed: men in commercial countries; by the decisions of courts in America and in
;England, and by able writers'on the subject, in this and other
countries.
- And it should not be forgotten, that, not only in'the introduc-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

363

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.
tion of this branch of law into England, by Lord Mansfield,
but i , its progress since, both there and here, a constant reference has been had to the usage of merchants, and the science
of insurance law has been made and kept a practical and convenient system, by avoiding subtle and refined reasoning, however logical it may seem to be, and looking for safe prdetical
rules.
Now, although cases like the present must have very frequently occurred, we are not aware of any evidence, that underwriters have paid such claims, or that, down to the time when
one somewhat resembling it was rejected by the Court of King's
Bench, in De Vaux b. Salvador, (5 Ad. and Ellis,) decided in
1836, such a claim was ever raade
And we believe that, if
skilful merchants, or underwriters, orlawyers, accustomed to the
practice of the commercial law, had been asked whether the
insurers on one vessel were -liable for damage done to another
vessel, not insured by the policy, by a collision occasioned by
the negligence of those on board the vessel insured, they would
down to a very recent period, have answered, unhesitatingly, ir,
the negative.
As we shall presently show, such, for a long time, was the
opinion of" the writers tin insurance, on the continent of Europe,
and in England afid America. And this, alone, would be strong
proof of the general understanding and practice of those connected with this subject.
But, although this practical interpretation of the contract is
entitled to much weight, we. do not consider it perfectly decisive. It may be, that, by applying to the ease the settled principles of the law of insurance, the loss is within the policy;
and, that it' has not heretofore been found to be so, because an
exact attention has not been given to the precise question. Or,
it may'be, that the weight of recent authority, and the propriety
of rendering the commercial law as uniform as its necessities,
should constrain us to adopt the rule contended for by the defendant in error. And, therefore, we proceed to examine the
principles and authorities, bearing.on this question.
Upon principle, the true inquiries are, what was the loss, and
what was its cause?
The loss was the existence of a lien 6 n the vessel insured,
securing a valid claim for damages, and the consequent diminution of the value of that vessel. In other words, by operation
of law, the owners of the Virginian obtained a lien on the vessel
insured, as security for the payment of damages, due to them
for a marine tort, whereby their property was injured.
What was the causd of this loss? We think it is correctly
stated by this court, in the case of the Paragon, 14 Peters, 109.

864

SUPREME COURT.
General Mutual Insuranice Company v. Sherwood.

In that case, it was said: " In the common case of an action
for damages for a tort done by the defendant, no one is ac.
customed to call the verdict of the jury and the judgment of
the court thereon, the cause of the loss to the defendant. It is
properly attributable to the original tort, which gave the right to
damages consequent thereon." The cases there spoken of, were
vlaims in personam. But the language was used to illustrate
the inquiry, what should be deemed the cause of a loss by a
claim in rem, and is strictly applicable to such a claim. Whether
the owners of the Virginian would proceed. in rem or in,personam,
was at their election. It affected only their remedy. Their
right, and the grounds on which it rested, and the extent of the
defendant's liability, and its causes, were the same in both
modes of proceeding. And, in both, the cause of the loss of
the defendant would be the negligence of his servants, rnounting to a tort. The loss consisting in a valid claim on the vessel
insured, we must look for the cause of the loss in the cause of
the claim, and this is expressly averred by the declaration to
have been the negligence of the servants of the assured. From
the nature of the case, it was. absolutely necessary to make such
an averment. If the declaration had stated simply a collision,
and that the plaintiff had paid the damages suffered by the Virginian and her cargo, it would clearly have been bad on demurrer;
becausei although'it would show a loss, it would stat6 no cause
of that ;loss. It is only by adding the fact, tfat the damage
done to the Virginian was caused by negligence, that is, by stating the cause of damage, that the cause of payment appears, and,
when it appears, it is seen to be the .negligence of the servants
of the assured.
We know of no principle of insurance law which prevents us
from looking for this sole operative cause, or requires us to stop
short of it, in applying the maxim causa proxima non renota
spectatur. The argument is, that collision, being a peril of the
sea, the negligence which caused that peril to o~cur is not to be
inquired into; it lies behind the peril, and is too remote. This
is true when the loss was inflicted by coltsion, or was by law a
necessary consequence of it. The underwriter cannot set up
the negligence of the servants of the assured as a defence. But
in this case he does not seek to go behind the causeof loss, and
defend himself by showing this qause was produced by negligence. Th&insured himself goes behind the collision, and shows,
as the sole reason why he has paid the rioney, that the negligence of his servants compelled him to pay it. It is true that
an expense, attached by the law maritime to the subject insured,
solely as a consequence of a peril, may be considered as proximately caused by that peril. But where the expense is attached

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

365

General Mutu'al Insurance Company v. Sherwood;
to the vessel insured, not solely in consequence of a peril,
but in consequence of the misconduct of the servants of the
assured, the peril per se is not the Efficient cause of the loss,
and cannot, in any just sense, be considered its proximate cause,
In such a case the real cause is the negligence, and. unless the
policy can be so interpreted as to insure against all losses directly
referable to the negligence of the master and mariners, such a
loss is not covered by the policy. We are of opinion the policy
cannot be so construed. When a peril of the sea is the proximate cause of a loss, the negligence which caused that peril is
not inquired into; not because the underwriter has taken upon
himself all risks arising from negligence, but because he has assumed to indemnify the insured against losses from particular
perils, and the assured has not warranted that his servants will
use due care to avoid them.
These views are sustained by many authorities. Mr. Arnould,
in his valuable Treatise on Insurance, (vol. 2, 775,) lays down
the correct rule: "Where the loss is not proximately caused by
the perils of the sea, but is directly referable to the negligence
or misconjuct of the master or other.agents of the assured, not
amounting to barratry, there seems little doubt that the uiderwriters would be thereby discharged." -To this rule must be
referred that class of cases, in which the misconduct of the master or mariners has either aggravated the consequences of a peril
insured against, or been of itself the efficient cause of the whole
loss. Thus, if damage be done by a peril insured against, and.
the master neglects to repair that damage, and in consequence
of the want of such repairs, the vessel is lost, the neglect to
make repairs, and not the sea damage, has been treated as the
proximate cause of the loss., In the case of Copeland v. The
N. E. Marine Ins. Co. (2 Met. 432,) Mr. Chief Justice Shaw
reviews many of the cases, and states that "the a&ual cause
of the loss is the want of -repair, for which the assured are responsible, and not the sea damage which caused the want of
repair, for which it is admitted the underwriters are'responsible?'
And the same principles were applied by ir. Justice Story, in
the case of Hazard v. N. 13. Marine Ins. Co. (1 Sum. R. 218,)
where the ldss was by'worms, which got access to the vessel in
consequence of her bottom being injured by stranding, whicl
injury the master neglected to repair. So,.where a vessel has
been lost or disabled, and the cargo saved, a loss caused by the
neglect of the master to transship, or repair his vessel and carry
the cargo, cannot be recovered. Schiefl~lin v. N. Y. Ins. Co. 9
Johns. 21; Bradhurst v. Col. Ins. Co. 9 Johns. 17; Am. Ins. Co.
v. Centre, 4 Wend. 45; S. C. 7 Cow. 504; McGaw v. Ocean
Ins. Co. 23 Pick. 405. So where condemnation of a neutral
31*

366

SUPREME COURT.
General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

vessel was caused by resistance of search; Robinson v. Jones, 8
Mass. 536; or a loss arose from the master's negligently leaving
the ship's register on shore; Cleveland v. Union Ins. Co. 8 Mass.
308. So where a vessel was burnt by the public authorities of
a place into which the master sailed with a false bill of health,
having the plague on board; Emerigon, (by Meredith,) 348; in
thesb and many other similar cases, the courts, Iaving found the
efficient cause of the loss to be some neglect of duty by the
master, have held the underwriter discharged. Yet it is obvious
that in all sftch cases, one of the perils insured against, fell on
the vessel. And they are to be reconciled with the other rule,
that a loss caused by a peril of the sea is to be borne by the un.
derwriter, though the master did not use due care to avoid the
peril, by bearing in mind that in these cases it is negligence,
and not simply a peril of the sea, which is the operative cause
of the loss. It .may sometimes be difficult to trace this distinction, and nistakes have doubtless been made in applying it, but
it is one of no small importance in the law of insurance, qnd
cannot be disregarded without producing confusion. The two
rules are in themselves consistent. Inde3d, they are both but
applications, to different cases, of the maxim, causaproxinza non
rem qfa spectatur. JIn applying this maxim, in -looking for the
proximate cause of the loss, if it is found to Be a peril of the
ea, we inquire no further; we do not look for the cause of that
peril. But if the peril of the sea, which operated in a given
case, was not of itself sufficient to occasion, and did not in and
by itself-occasion the loss claimed, if it depended upon the cause
of 'that peril whether the loss claimed wouLd follow it, and therefore a particular cause of the .peril is essenltial to be shown by
the assured, then we must look beyond the peril to its cause, to
ascertain the efficient cause of the loss.
The case at bar presents an illustration of both rules. So
far as the brig Emily was herself injured by the collision, the
cause of the loss was the collision, whfich was a peril insured
against, and the assured, showing that his vessel suffered damage from that cause, makes a case, and iq. entitled to recover.
Bit he-claims to recover not only for the damages done to his
vessel, which was insured, but for damages done to the other
vessel, not insured. To entitle himself to recover these, he must'
show not only that they were suffered by a. peril of the sea, but
that the, underwriter is responsible for the consequences of that
peril falling on a vessel not insured. It is'this .responsibility
which is the sole basis of his claim, and 0 make out this responsibility he does not and cannot rest q on the occurrence of
a collision.; this affords no ground for this claim; he must show
a particular cause for that collision; and aver that by reason of

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

867

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

the existence of that cause, the loss was suffered by him, and so
the .underwriter became responsible for it.
This negligence is therefore the fact without which the loss
would not have been suffered by the plaintiff, and by its operation the loss is suffered by him. In the strictest sense, it causes
the loss to the plaintiff. The loss of the owners of the Virginia
was occasioned by a peril of the sea, by which their vessel was
injured. But nothing connects the plaintiff with that loss, or
makes it his, except the negligence of his servants. Of his loss
this negligence is the only efficient cause, and in the sense of
the law it is the proximate cause.
The ablest writers of the confin'int of Europe, on the subject
of insurance law, have distinctly declared, that, iA case of damage
to another vessel solely through the fault of the master or mariners of the assured vessel, the damage must be repaired by him
who occasioned it, and the insurer is not liable for it. Pothier
Traite d,'Assurance, No. 49, 50; Boucher, 1500, 1501, 1502; 4
Boulay Paty, Droit Maritime, (Ed. of 1823,) 14, 16; Santayra's
Com. 7,223; Emerigon, (by Meredith,) 337. If the law of England'is to be considered settled by the case of DeVaux v. Salvador, (4 Ad. & El. 420,) it is clear such a loss could not b recovered there. Mr. Marshall is evidently of opinion that unless
the misconduct of the master and crew amounted to barratry,
the lost could not be recovered. Marsh. on Ins. 495. And Mr.
P.hillips so states in terms. 1 Phil. on Ins. 636.
It has been urged that, in the case of the Paragon, (Peters v.
Warren Ins. Co. 14 Pet. 99,) this court adopted a rule which, if
applied to the case at bar, would entitle the insured to -recover.
But we do not so consider it. It was" there determined that a
collision without fault was the proximate .cause of that loss.
Indeed) unless the operation of law, which fixed the lien, could
be regarded as the cause of that loss, there was no cause butthe
collision, and that was a peril insured against.
We are aware that in the case of Hall v. Washington Ins.
Co. (2 Story,) Mr. Justice Story to.ok a-different view of this question ; and we are informed that the Supreme Court of Massachusetts has recently decided a case in conformity with his
opinion, which is not yet in print, and which we have not been
able to see. But with great respect for that very eminent Judge,
and for that learned and able court, we think the rule we adopt
is more in conformity with sound principle, as well as with the
practical interpretation of the contract by underwriters and
merchants; and that it is the safer'and more expedient rule.
We cannot doubt that the knowledge by owners, masters, and
seamen, that underwriters were responsiblp for all the damage
done by collision with other vessels through their negligence,

SUPREME COURT.
Peale v. Phipps et al.

would tend to relax their vigilance and materially enhance the
perils, both to life and property, arising from this case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to render a judgrrient for the
defendants; on the demurrer to the first two counts, and award
a venire de novo to try the general issue pleaded to -the other
counts.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record froih the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged,
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby. remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to enter a judgment for the plaintiff in error, on the demurrer to the two first counts, and to award
a venire facias de novo, to try the general issue pleaded to the
other counts.

ELIJAH

PEALE,

TRUSTEE

OF THE

AGRICULTURAL

BANK

OF

MISSISSIPPI, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MARTHA PHIPPS, AND
MAJ:Y BOWERS, WIFE OF CHARLES RICE.
Two statutes of Mississippi, one passed in 1843, and the other in 1846, provide that
where the charter of a bank shall be declared forfeitcc6, a trustee shall be appointed
to take possession of its effects, and commissioners appointed to audit accounts
•against it.

Where these steps had-been taken, and the commissioners had refused to allow a certain account, the Circuit Court of the United States hid no right to entertain a bill
filed by the creditors to compel the trustee to pay the rejected account. There was
a want of jurisdiction.
The cases upon this point, examined.
A claim by the trustee, in re-convention, was not a waiver of the exception to the
jurisdiction.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
It will be seen, by reference to 4 Howatrd, 225, that Charles
Rice, and Mary his wife, and Martha Phipps, recovered, in an
action of ejectment against the Agricultural Bank of Mississippi, two undivided third parts of a lot of ground in the city of
Natchez.

