StPREME iCOURT.
Hoyt ot al. v. Hammekin et ux.

as it is believed to be the settled modern -practice, that in all
instances in which irregularities could formerly be corrected
upon a writ of error coram vobis or audita querela, the same
objects may be effected by motion to the court, as a mode more
simple, more expeditious, and less fruitful of difficulty and expense. In this case the cause was still under the contxol and
correction of the court, for the enforcement of its judgment and
the supervision of its own process, and in the exercise of this
function, it was competent fori it to look back upon the entire
progress of the case, up to the writ and indorsements thereon,
under the rule already stated, as applicable to judgments by
default, and to correct any irregularities which might be detected. In the present case there is less show 6f objection to
such action, on the partof the court, as it affects the rights of
no third parties, butis limited in its consequences to the parties
to the suit only. We order the judgment of the Circuit Cc art
to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, ?4r. Justice WAYNE, and Mr. Justice
GRIER, dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Disfridt of Mississippi, and .was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circiuit Court, on the motion to quash
the forthcoming bond and to set aside the original judgment as
set forth in the record of this cause, be and the same is hereby,
affirmed with costs.

NATHANIEL. HOYT AND JAMES BLANDIN, A.DMINISTRATORS, &C.,
AND THE SAID JAMES BLANDIN, WILLIAM M. HUDSON, AND
JOSEPHINE, HIS "WIFE, HEIR

OF ANTOINE

BLArJDIN,

AND ELISHA M. PEASE, APPELLANTS, !.. GEORGE
MEKIN, AND ADELAIDE IATILDA, HIS WIFE.

DECEASED,

S.

HAM-

W e a title to land iri th6 Stateof Coahuila and Texa was obtained in 1833, by a
-mother for, and in the name of her daughter, and, in 1836, the father of the daughter
conveyed it away by a deed executed in Louisiana, this deed was properly set aide
by the District Court of Texas.
It was not executed either according to the laws of Louisiana, or those of Coahuila
and Texas.

.-1r.Justice Curtis was necessarily absent when this case was
considered and aecided.

DECEtMBER TERM, 1852.

347

Hoyt et al. v. Hammekin et ux.

This was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It-was argued by Mr. Allen, for the appellant, with whom was
Mhr. Hale, and by iHr. Hughes, for tha appellee.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in Chancery, from the District Court of the
United States for the District of Texas.
The bill alleges, that the States of Coahuila and Texas, on
the 23d of NGvember, 1833, granted eleven leagues of land, on
the River Navasota, in the department of Nacogdoches, and of
the value of fifty thousand dollars, to Adelaide Matilda Mexia;
that on the 10th of February, 1836, her father, Antonio Mexia,
upon some supposed necessity of having the legal title vested
in a citizen of said State, and without consideration, sold and
conveyed the land to John A. Merle, by authentic act before a
notary public of Louisiana, and not according to- any law in
Texas, or in the State of Coahuila and Texas; and that the
said Merle, by a like authentic act, declared that the said land
was purchased by him with the funds of Antonio Blandin ; that
the said Antonio died intestate; that Nathaniel Hoyt and James
Blandin have been appointed administrators of his succession,
and that Josephine Hudson and James Blandin are his heirs at
law; that the said Adelaide Matilda owns the same in her own
right, but that the administrators and heirs of Blandiri claim the
same by descent.
An amended bill represents, that Antonio Blandir, ancestor
of defendants, before his death, in order to carry out the trust
created by the sale to him, and to prevent the land from being
subject to his debts, and that the title might be vested in a resident of Texas, he expecting to be absent, without consideration
or consent of complainants, conveyed 'all his right and interest
in the land to Elisha M. Pease; that by reason of this convey
ance, the land did not descend to the heirs of Blandin, but the
title remains in Pease, who holds the same for the benefit of the
complainants; that he does not claim title for his own bendfit,
but for the benefit of those for whom the trust was created.
And the complainants pray that Pease may be inade a party;
and that the sale by Antonio Mexia be declared void, or that
the heirs of Blandin may be held trustees, &c., and compelled
to convey, &c.
The heirs of Blandin plead in bar to so much of the- bi as
alleges the grant of the. land to the said Adelaide Matilda, and
a subsisting title in her, and seeks special or general relief. They
allege that, in pursuance of a petition, bearing date the 27th of

348

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt et al. v. Hammekin et ux.

-January, 1830, presented to the Governor of the State of Coahuila and Texas, by, and in behalf of one Pedro 'Varela, a grant
by way of sale, in conformity with the 24th article of the coloniza-ion law of the 24th of March, 1825, was made to him, by the said
Governor, of eleven leagues of land in the vacant lands of said
State. That on the 29th of March, 1832, sai l Varela, by notarial
act, in the city of Mexico, sold and traisferred said land to one
Charlotte Walker, wife of said Mexia, for the use of their daughter,
the said Adelaide Matilda, then a minor, unn: arried, and subject to
the power of her father; in order that she ni ght enjoy or alienate
said land, as absolute proprietress bf the same; that by said act she
became bound to pay to ihe government of said State, the value
of the land, according to the colonization law; that the sale and
transfer were founded upon a valuable consideration in money,
paid by Mexia to Varela; that said act was executed by Charlotte, wife of Mexia, acting for h~r husband, and in his absence,
by virtue of the power granted to her, according to the laws of
4 Iexico, by Alexander Alvarez Guitian, second constitutional
Alcade of the City of Mexico, on the 10th of Mareh, 1832; and
that Mexia thereby became entitled to all the benefits of said
adt, and was bound by the same.
That on the 23d of November, 1833, . survey having first
been made, a title of possession of the land was made by the
Commi~ioner, Vincente Aldreto, to said Ae'elaide Matilda; and
that, on' the 10th of February, 1836, said Adelaide Matilda
remaining unmarried, and subject to Mexia, her father, he, by a
notarial act, at the city of New Orleans, granted, sold, and
transferred the land, with the consent and authorization of his
said wife, 'to said John A. Merle, then acting as trustee for Antonio Blandin, for the cdnsideration of $7,306.25 then paid to
said Mexia by Merle, out of the funds of Blandin, in his possession. Other parts of the bill were denied in the plea.
.The answer of Pease, admits, that some time in 1838, Antonio Blandin called upon him and stated, th-at he held the title to
three eleven league grants in Texas, one, as he believes, the grant
in controversy; that said land hAd been conveyed to him by the
owners,'in order that he, as a resident of Texas, might hold the
-same for -WQeir benefit, &c.
The other defendants admit the conveyances alleged in the
bill, but do not admit the trust in their ancastor, and they allege
as a reason for his conveyance to Pease, that he was embarrassed, and was apprehensive his creditors would subject the
land to the payment of his debts. The land, they assert, was
cohveved in trust to' Pease, for the benefit of fhe wife and children of Blandin.
A demurrer was filed to the amended bill, which was properly

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

349

Hoyt et al. v. Hammekin Ct ux.

overruled by the District Court. The case must be examined
here on its merits.
The purchase from Varela was made by Mrs. Mexia, for the
benefit of her daughter Adelaide Matilda. -It was a concession
to be located upon the unappropriated lands of the State. After
the location and survey were made, the title of possession issued
to Adelaide Matilda.
The 59th law of Toro provides, when the husband shall be.
absent, and no present prospect of his return, or where there be
danger by reason of delay, the Justice, with a knowledge of the
cause, being legitimate, or necessary, or profitable to the wife,
may give the license to the wife, hich the husband might give,
which thus given, shall be as gcod as if given by the husband.
3 Novisinia Recop. 404. A license thus given by the Judge, in
consequence of the absence of the husband, does not authorize
the wife to bind the husband, nor does it appear that she pretended to do so, in the purchase from Varela. From the conveyance, it sutficiently appears that this property did not become
a part, of the community property of husband and wife.
The conveyance of the land by M1exia to Merle, as trustee for
Blandin, for the consideration of $7,306.25 expressed, does not
contain the necessary formula f6r a transfer of title, under the
laws of Louisiana. But those laws do not govern the right of
Mexia to make the conveyance, or to make it in the foim in
which it was executed.
To show that this act was done by lcxia, with the consent
of his wife, a letter of hers is appended to the transaction, and
a paf t of it embodied in the conveyance. This letter bears date
of November 1st, 1836, while the authentic act in which it is
incorporated, is dated the 10th of February, 1836. It is not
readily perceived how a letter, dated ten months after the conveyance, could constitute a part of it. From the instrument, it
appears that Merle was a purchaser for himself, his heirs and
assigns, when it is admitted that h', purchased as the trustee of
Blandin, and with his money.
But the facts in the case show that no money was paid on
the purchase. The Hon. P. Soule says, the sale was made by
General Mexia to John A. Merle, without consideration, and for
the sole purpose of protecting the property of his children, understanding that Texian citizens only could hold lands in Texas.
The witness was well acquainted with Antonio Blandin, who
consulted with the witness, and stated the land was confided to
his care, never speaking of it as his private prop6rty, or as having paid any consideration for it. Blandin uniformly spoke of
the land as a trustee, and not as owner.
The deposition of E. M. Pease, one of the defendants, was taken
VOL. XIV.

30

350

SUPREM1E COURT.
Hoyt et al. v. Haminekin et ux.

by the complainants, but it was objected to 'y the defendants bdlow, on the ground that Pease was a party, and that the Commissioner of the United States who had taken the same, did not appear to hfave been sworn. The DistriSt Court refused to admit the
deposition on both grounds. As the deposition was not taken wxith
the leave of the court, it was properly overruled, on the ground
that the witness was a party, but the other ground in regard to
the Commissioner nbt appearing to have been sworn, was not sustainable. The Commissioner is an officer appointed by the courts
of the United States, and his official acts are prinidfacievalid.
Had General Mexia power to make a conveyance to Merle?
Was it executed according to the laws of Louisiana, where
the act was done, or.the laws of Texas, where the land is situated, and which must govern the act? The laws of Louisiana
do not authorize the transfer of a child's property by parents or
guardians, without an order from the Judge, granted on the advice of a family meeting. 1 Civil Code, Art 334, 338. No such
ceremony was observed in the conveyance to Merle, as the law
requires, and consequently the act was not operative by the
Louisiana law. The letter of the wife, if it were genuine and
bore the proper date, is not evidence of a family meeting, and
that the sale was "of absolute necessity, or cf evident advantaae
to the minor."
It iscontended that the property in question came to Adelaide
Matilda, through the means of her father, and, consequently,
that he had the power to convey it. Such property under the
civil law is called profectitious.
There is no evidence that the father paid any consideration
for.this property. It was purchased by the mother for the benefit
of her daughter; and when the concession was located and arranged, the perfect title was made in the name of the daughter.
The presumption that the consideration paid was paid by the
mother, arises from the facts. Her marital rights under the civil
law, as to property, were independent of her husband; and in
this view it may well be presumed that she paid the consideration for the pufchase.
The fact that no money was paid by Merle, although large
sum was inserted in the act of conveyance, shows the nature
of that transaction; and that the step was taken, as sworn, to
by Mr.Soul6, to preserve the land by a legal ownership, for the
benefit of his daughter.
The mother having procured the complete title to the property
in the name of her daughter, she had no power to consent to or
authorize the transfer of it by her husband. The pretence of the
letter gives no validity to the act of conveyance. The transfer
of the concession t6 the mother, by Yarela, for her daughter,
.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

351

General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood.

was not made as a part of the marital community. The. conveyance to the mother and the declared object of it, negatives
suVh a presumption.
Acquired as the property was, the law denominates it adventitious. It came to their daughter through her mother. In this
view, it is contended that the usufruct was in the father, "who
is bound to defend and preserve it, both in court and out;" 3
Las Siate Partidas, 149, and that he-haa power to convey it.
From the terms of conveyance, it is clear that Mexia assumed
to act, not in his own right, but in the character of father and
-natural tutor, and by authorization of his wife.. The instrument
purports to convey the title of his daughter, which admitted the
right to be in her. The letter of the wife, as he supposed, was
evidence of a family meeting required by law, and under which
he assumned to act.
A guardian cannot dispose of the property of his ward without the permission of the judge of his domicil. 1 White's
Recop. 15 and 16, Part 4, L. 14, tit. 11, p. 4. During the minority of the child, the only right of the father is, to take the usufruct. He has no power to sell the property of the minor, except for certain purposes, bnd under the sanction of the Judge.
2) Part. 1137. The conveyance to Merle was not made as the
law requires, and it was therefore void. It was not valid under
the laws of Louisiana, nor under the laws of Texas and Coahuila.
The decree'of the District Court is affirmed.
dm
Mr. Justice NELSON concurred in the result to which the
above ophiion arrived.
Ordr.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by connsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

THE GENERAL MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. EBENEZER B. SHERWOOD.
Under a policy insuring against the usual perils of the sea, including bahnatry, the
underwriters are not liable to repay to *i insured, damages paid by him to the

