SUPREME COURT.
Peale v. Phipps et al.

would tend to relax their vigilance and materially enhance the
perils, both to life and property, arising from this case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to render a judgrrient for the
defendants; on the demurrer to the first two counts, and award
a venire de novo to try the general issue pleaded to -the other
counts.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record froih the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged,
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby. remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to enter a judgment for the plaintiff in error, on the demurrer to the two first counts, and to award
a venire facias de novo, to try the general issue pleaded to the
other counts.

ELIJAH

PEALE,

TRUSTEE

OF THE

AGRICULTURAL

BANK

OF

MISSISSIPPI, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MARTHA PHIPPS, AND
MAJ:Y BOWERS, WIFE OF CHARLES RICE.
Two statutes of Mississippi, one passed in 1843, and the other in 1846, provide that
where the charter of a bank shall be declared forfeitcc6, a trustee shall be appointed
to take possession of its effects, and commissioners appointed to audit accounts
•against it.

Where these steps had-been taken, and the commissioners had refused to allow a certain account, the Circuit Court of the United States hid no right to entertain a bill
filed by the creditors to compel the trustee to pay the rejected account. There was
a want of jurisdiction.
The cases upon this point, examined.
A claim by the trustee, in re-convention, was not a waiver of the exception to the
jurisdiction.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
It will be seen, by reference to 4 Howatrd, 225, that Charles
Rice, and Mary his wife, and Martha Phipps, recovered, in an
action of ejectment against the Agricultural Bank of Mississippi, two undivided third parts of a lot of ground in the city of
Natchez.

I)ECEMBER TERM, 1852.

369

Peale v. Phipps et al.

In May, 1847, they sued out a writ of habere faias posses-"
sionenz, and entered into possession of the property.
Under the laws of Mississippi, the charter of the bank became
forfeited, and Elijah Peale was appointed trustee.
In April, 1848, Martha Phipps, and Mary Bowers, wife of
Charles Rice, filed their petition in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, against
Peale. They claimed rent of the property from 1839 to 1847
damages for injuries done to the property whilst in possession
of the bank, and the costs to which they had been put by the
ejectment. Peale filed exceptions, and an answer. The second
exception, upon which the 3udgment of this court turned, was
as follows.
2. Because the charter of the Agricultural Baik was declared
forfeited, and the said bank put in a course of liquidation as an
insolvent corporation, and this defendant appointed trustee, for
the purpose of collecting the assets thereof, by the Circuit Court
of Adams County, in the State of Mississippi ; and said trustee
is not amenable fo any other court than the one that appointed
him, and of which he is the officer; and this court has no jurisdiction whatever of him in his said capacity.
The following agreement of counsel wos filed in the case.
It is agreed between the-parties in the above-named suit, by
Prentiss and Finney, attorneys for the plaintiffs, and Robert
Mott, attorney for the defendant, that the following facts shall
be admitted upon the trial of the cause, and the same are hereby
admitted :
1. That the President, Directors, and Company of the Agricultural Bank of Mississippi, were in possession of the City Hotel,
being the premises, the mesne profits of which are sued for on
the 1st day of December, 1839.
2. It is admitted, that the said hotel and furniture rented, from
said 1st day of December, 1839, until 1st November, 1842, for
the sum of six thousa'nd dollars per annum, and from said 1st
November, 1842, until plaintiffs took possession at the rate of
four thousand dollars per annum, and that said rates shall bd
considered as the fair annual rent of said property during said
periods.
3. It is admitted, that the charter of the Agricultural Bank
has been adjudged forfeited uihder the laws of Mississippi, and
that the defendant, Elijah Peale, is the trustee appointed under,
and by virtue of said laws, to represent the said corporation.
4. It is admitted, that the claim sued on, was, before the 'ommencement of this suit, presented to the commissioners appointed
in Mississippi, to audit and allow claims against said bank, to
wit, to J. A. Van Dalsen and C. L. Dubuisson, and they were

SUPREME COURT.
Peale v. Ihipps et al.

requested to audit and allow the same, bihb that they refused to
audit., allow, or in any way recognize the same.
5. It is admitted, that the claim sued on, was, before the commencement of this suit, presented to the defendant, as trustee
of said Agricultural Bank, and he was requested to allow the
same as a just and valid claim against said bank; but that said
defendant, as trustee as aforesaid, refused to)admit, recognize, or
allow said claim, or any part thereof.
6' It is admitted, that the fees of counsel employed by the
plaintiffs in the prosecution of the suit of ejeetment against the
Agricultural ,Bank, for .the recovery of said City Hotel, in the
Circuit Court and Supreme Court of the United States, exceeded in valud the,sum of two thousand dollars, and that said
sum of $2000 dollars would be a reasonable fee for the conluct
of said suit from its commencement to its termination.
It is adrmitted, that the furniture of house, &c., on the premises,
formed part of the rent in the proportion cf one fourth to three
fourths thereof.
It is admitted, that the charter of the bank was declared forfeited by law, and the assets of the bankc put in the possession
of the defendant, who still holds tte same as trustee or representative.
Ro. MOTT, Attorney.
PRENTiSS & FINNEY, For Plaintiffs.
It is further admitted, that the Agricultural Bank had stopped
specie payments previous to the time of the forfeiture of the
charter, and did not afterwards resume.
PRENTISS & FINNEY, Plaintiffs' Attorneys.
In January, 1849, the cause came on to be heard, when the
Circuit Court decreed, that the plaintiffs do recover from Peale
the sum of $20,058, -with interest at 5 per cent. until paid; and
that they should have execution upon the assets of the bank,
which were then, or might be thereafter, in the hands of the
trustee.
From this decree, Peale appealed and brought the-case up to
this court.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Taylor, for the defendants in error.
Only that point will be mentioned upon which the judgment
of this court turned.
Mr. Lawrence contended, for the plaintiff in error, that tha
action against Peale, who was a mere officer of the Adams
County Court, Mississippi, for the purpose" of collecting the
assets of a bark in course of liquidation, could not be maintainied in the United States Circuit'Courtfcr Louisiana. If'the

DECEM1BER

TERM,

1852.

Peale v. Phipps et al.

plaintiff wished to bring suit, independent of the proceedings in
the Adams County Court, the suit should have been brought
against the corporation in its corporate name. Hutch. Dig. § 10,
11, act 1840, p. 326; § 8, act 1843, p. 328; act February 28,
1846, p. 332; 6 Howard, (Miss.) 674.
31Mr. Taylor, for the defendants in error.
The second ground of exception is partly based upon the
assumption that the affairs of the Agricultural Bank weie
administered by the trustee Peale, because of the declared insolvency of the bank. This is neither admitted, nor proved
to be true; and, in fact, the affairs of the bank were taken froth
the management of her own officers, because those officers had
violated the laws of its existence, whereby it ceased to exist.
But it does not follow, as a necessary consequence, that because
the charter of the bank was declared, by the Circuit Court of
Adams County, to have been forfeited, or because its affairs were
put in liquidation by the order of that court, or because Mr.
Peale was appointed trustee by that court, no court but the Circuit Court of Adams County can entertain jurisdiction of a suit
against him, as trustee. An administrator or executor is appointed to represent the estate of a person deceased, after theProbate Court has found or adjudged the fact of his- death, and
put his affairs into a course of liquidation in the same manner.
Such executors are liable to be sued in any court w atever; and
even in cases where the State laws provide expressly that they
shall not be sued, except in the court by which they are appointed,
they are held liable to answer to the United States Circuit Court,
notwithstanding such special exemption made by the State law.
See case of Dupuy v. Bemiss, where this question is fully
argued, (2 Annual Rep. 509); and case of Erwin v. Lowry, (7
Howard, 172-181,) reviewing and approving the doctrines, and
even the reasonings, of the Louisiana court; and also 14 Peters's
Rep. 75, examining the same questions; all settling the doctrine
that even where the representative of an estate is suable only in
his own court by the State law, he may yet be sued in the
United States Circuit Court, and there be held to answer, and
compelled to pay a debt of the succession, because, in every
case of a conflict between the laws made by Congress (in accordance with the Constitution of the United States) and the
acts of a State Legislature, the State laws must yield. We
believe, that, in Mississippi, other. courts besides the Circuit
Court of Adams County, could have entertained jurisdiction of
a suit against this trpstee, in his said capacity; and that even
if it were shown that, by the positive requirement of the laws
of the State of Mississippi, suit could have been brought against

SUPREfE COURT.
Peale v. Phipps et al.

Peale only in the Circuit Court of Adafin County, which appointed him, we could, notwithstanding such requirement, sue
Mr. Peale, as trustee, in the Circuit Court f the United States.
We also submit to the court whether the third and eighth
admissions of counsel, found on the seventa page of the printed
record, do not admit that the plaintiff in error, Mr. Peale, is the
proper person to be sued for, and on account of, the debts due
by-the bank, because if, as admitted, the bank itself had ceased
to exist, and Mr. Peale was in the actual possession of all its
assets, and was its representative, he is the only person who can
be sued on account of the liabilities of the bank. We think
the admissions themselves afford good ground for overruling the
exception.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought by the defendants in error against the
plaintiff in the Circuit Court of the United States for'the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The proceeding 'was by petition in the usual form of Louisiana practice. It states that the plaintiff in error, in the capacity
of trustee and, assignee of the President, Directors, and Company
of the Agricultural Bank of Mississippi, which was located,
until the term of its dissolution at Natchez, in the said State, is
indebted to the petitioners in the sum. of $34,000, upon the
grounds set forth in the petition.
They state that they were the owners of two undivided third
parts of a certain lot in Natchez, in the county of Adams, in
the State of Mississippi, upon which stands the City Hotel;
that they were unlawfully expelled from it by the Agricultural
Bank; that they afterwards recovered back the possession by
an action of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi; and that They
are entitled to the sum above mentioned, against the bank, for
damages and mesne'profits while the bank held them out of
possession together with the costs they incurred in the suit to
recover it.
They further state, that by the decree of the Circuit Court of
Adams County, a court of competent juisdiction in the premises, the charter of the Agricultural Bank was declared forfeited, and the corporation dissolved; and that Peale, the plainfiff
in error, was appointed trustee and assignee of the bank, and is
the sole legal representative of the corporetion; and they averi
that by operation of law all the assets of the corporation are
vested in him as assignee, and that he became legally liable to
the creditors to the extent of the assets which may come to his

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
PRale v. Phipps et al.

hands; and that he has assets in his possession, sufficient to
pay all the debts of the corporation.
The plaintiff in error filed sundry exceptions and an answer
to this petition. His 2d exception denies the jurisdiction of
the court, upon the ground that, as' trustee for the bank, he is
not amenable to any other court than the one that appointed
him. As we think this exception decisive against, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Louisiana, it is not necessary in
this opinion to set out the other exceptions, or to notice the
claims he set up by the way of answer and reconvention, if his
exceptions were overruled.
There is an agreement between the counsel of the respective
parties, which admits substantially the facts stated in the petition, as respects the possession and recovery of the hotel in
the suit in ejectment, and the appointment of plaintiff in error
as trustee upon the forfeiture of the charter of the bank; and
also that the defendants had presented this claim to tite commissioners appointed in Mississippi to audit claims against the
bank, and that they had refused to allow it. There are other
admissions, in relation to the annual value of the lot and hotel,
and the costs and expenses of the suit in ejectment , and also in
relation to other things which are not material to this decision,
and need not therefore be particularly stated. The case proceeded; and at the hearing of the exceptions they were all
overruled, and a decree was finally passed against Peale as
trustee and representative of the President, Directors, and Company of the Agricultural Bank, directing 'him to pay to the petitioners the sum of $20,058, With interest thereon at the rate
of' five per cent. until paid - and that the petitioners have execution therefor, upon the property, assets, goods and chattels,
rights and credits of the said President, Directors, and Company
of the Agricultural Bank of Mississippi, then in.the hands of
the said Peale, as trustee, or which might thereafter come to his
hands.
It is to revise this judgment that the present writ of error is
brought.
The power, duties, and responsibilities of the plaintif in error,
as trustee, are regulated by the laws of Mississippi.
The act of 1848 makes it the duty of every district attorney
in the State, whenever he has good reason to believe that any
incorporated bank, located in his district, has done any thig
that would work a forfeiture of its charter, to file an inforiation against the bank in the Circuit Court of the county in
which it is situated; and if, upon the trial, the charter is adjudged to be forfeited, it is made the duty of the court to appoint one or more trustees to take charge of its books and asVOL. XIV.

32

374

SUP IME

COURT.

Peale v. Phipps ,et al.

sets, and to collect the debts and sell the property of the bank,
and apply the proceeds in-the manner which may be direcied
by law to the payment of the debts due from the corporation.
And the trustee is required to give bond and security, to be approved by the court, for the faithful discharge of this duty.
The act "of'1846 contains more detailed provisions on this
subject. Among others, it directs the trustee to return, under
oath, to the court by which he'is appointed, an inventory of all
the property and evidences of debt which shall have come into
his possession; and is afterwards, under the direction of the
court, to sell the.same at public auction, and render an account
of the sale so made to the court.
The act of 1846 also directs, that at the term at which judgmlent. of forfeiture is rendered, the court, shall appoint three
commissioners to audit claims against the corporation; and it
is made their duty to report their proceedfings to the court at
the first term after the expiration of twelve months allowed for
the presentation'of claims; at which time 'all exceptions. to the
report are to be heard and determined, and the court thereupon
required to direct the distribution of the money in the hands of
the trustee, to be made in the order prescribed by the law.
It, was under these acts of the legislature of Mississippi, that
the charter of the Agricultural Bank was declared forfeited, and
the plaintiff in error appointed trustee. Commissioners also, it
appears, were at the same time appointed to audit the accounts,
who rejected thig claim. Upon their refusal to allow it, the defendants in error instituted these proceedings in the Circuit
Court of the United 8tates for the Eastern District of I~ouisiana.
We see no ground upon which the jurisdiction of the court
can be sustained. The plaintiff in error held the assets of the
bank as the agent and receiver of the Court of Adams County,
and subject to its order, and.was not authorized to dispose of
the assets, or to pay any debts due from the bank, except by the
order of the court. He had given a bond for the performance
of this duty, and would be liable to an action, if he paid any
claim without the authority of. the court from which he received
his apppintment, and t6-which he was accountable. The proptrty, in legal contemplation, was in the custody of the court of
which he was the officer, and had been placed there by the laws
of Mississippi. And while it thus renfained in the custody and
possession of thdt court, awaiting its order and decision, no
other court had a right to' interfere with it, or to wrest it from
the hands of its agentand thereby put i' out of his power to
perform his duty. The case falls within the principle decided
by this court in Vaughn v. Northrop, (15 Pet. 1,) in which it was

DECEMBER

TERM,

1852.

875

Peale v. Phipps et al.
held, that an administrator could not be sued in ancher State
for a debt due from his intestate, because he is bound to account
for all the assets he receives, to the pkoper tribunals of the government from which he derives his authority. And that decision was made in a case where the assets, by reason of which
the administrator was sought to bd charged, were received in the
jurisdiction of the government in which the suit was brought
against him, but in which he had not taken out letters of administration.
The case of Williams v. Benedict, and others, (8 Howard,
107,) is still more in point. By a law of Mississippi, if it appeared t6 the Orphans' Court, that the estate of a deceased person was insolvent, it was made the duty of the court to direct
the property to be sold by the executor or administrator, and to
appoint commissioners to audit the claims of creditors; and
to distribute the proceeds of the property (after deducting the
expenses of the last sickness and funeral expenses) among the
creditors, in proportion to the sum due to them respectively.
The appellant was the administrator of an intestate whose
estate had been declared to be insolvent by the Orphans' Court.
But the appellees had obtained a judgment against the administrator in the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Mississippi, before the adjudication of insolvency by
the Orphans' Court-and issued an execution, and laid it upon
property upon which his judgment was a lien, in case the estate
was not insolvent. And, upon a bill filed by the appellant to
obtain an injunction staying proceedings upon"this execution,
the appellees insisted that the estate was not insolvent, but had
been wasted by the administrator, and that the proceedings in
the Orphans' Court, under the law of Mississippi, were no bar
to his recovery in a court of the United States. And the District Court was of that opinion, and dismissed the -appellant's
bill. But the decree was reversed by this court upon the ground
that the jurisdiction of the Orphans' Court had attached to the
assets, and that they were ia gremio legis, and could not be
seized by process from another court.
And in the case of Wiswall v. Sampson's Lessee, decided at
the present term, the court held that where certain lands were in
the hands of a receiver, appqinted by the Chancery Court of
Alabama, in a case pending before it, they could not be sold by
the marshal upon process of execution, issuing out of the Circuit Court of the United States, for that district, although the
judgment upon which the process issued, was a lien upon the
land, and the execution was laid before the receiver obtained
actual possession of the property. In the case of Erwin v.
Lowry, (7 Howard, 181,) referred to in the argument of the

SUPREME

COURT.

Peale v. Phipps et al.

counsel for the defendants in error, the proceedings in the Court
of the United States were merely to enforce a lien created by
the testator in his lifetime, and consequently could not interfere
with the duties of the curator, or the authority of the State
Court, under which he was acting, and to which he was bound
to

account.

It is suggested, also, in the argument, that the claim in reconvention made in the answer, is a waiver of the exception to the
jurisdiction; because the claim in reconvention necessarily adinits the jurisdiction of the court. But the article in the code
of-practice, and the case referred to,.do not support the ,)bJection.
The claim in reconvention is in express terms, made . : ,.se the
exception to the jurisdiction is overruled, and not otherwie. It
is made conditionally, the party at the same time denying the
jurisdiction of the court~in the matter in controversy.
Moreover, the facts stated in the petition of the defendants in
error, show that the Circuit Court of Louisiana had no jurisdiction. And where that is the case, the geaeral rule in all legal
proceedings is, that the defendant may avail himself 'of the objection in any stage of the proceedings. 17We see nothing in the
code of practice that leads us to suppose that a different rule
prevails in the courts of Louisiana. And. if it does, yet the.
exception to the jurisdiction wds in this case pleaded in. linize
when the plaintiff in error appeared to the suit, and the conditional claim in reconvention cannot, by any just construction of
its terms, be held to be a waiver of the plea.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversed,
and a mandate issued directirig the judgment to be enitered for
the plaintiff in error.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on-the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, and adjudged, by this
court, that the judgment of the saif Circuit Court, in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this caase be, and the -same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to enter judgment in favor of the
plaintiff in error.

