DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

525

Jackson v. Hale et al.

record from the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Iowa and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

JOHN JACKSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V.

SAMUEL HALE, GEORGE

C. MANY, AND JOHN V. AYER.
Where a warehouseman gave a receipt for wheat which he did not receive, and afterwards the quantity which he actually had was divided amongst the respective
depositors, an action of replevin, brought by the assignee of the fictitious receipt,
could not be maintained when, under it. one of these portions was seized.
Evidence offered to show that the wheat in question was assigned to the defendant,
was objected to by the plaintiff in the replevin; but such objection was properly
overruled. The plaintiff had shown no title in himself.
So also, evidence was admissible to show that the receiver of the fictitious certificate
had never deposited any wheat in the warehouse.
The defendants in this case were the assignees of the original warehouseman, and
were not responsible, unless it could be shown that wheat was deposited, which had
cone into their possession.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the Disftict of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was5 argued by 1r. L.fawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Lee, and Mr. Seward, for the defendants in error.
41Ir. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points.
First. The Judge of the District Court erred in ruling upon
the admission of testimony, that a -depositary, when theje is a
joint interest in the deposit, may change the joint interest of
depositors' into an interest in severalty, by mere setting apart,
without delivery made.
Second. The court erred in holding, that a depositor, having
a joint interest in one description of property, his depositary
could confer a. title upon him, to the extent of such joint interest, from deposits of a different description; 'or that if his deposits were in part winter wheat, &c., his depositary might set
apart to him the spring wheat of other depositors, and such act
of the depositary would give title.
Tkdrd. Testimony was improperly admitted, that "the property rose in value after it was taken in replevin," and "that

526

SUPREME COURT.
Jackson v. Hale et al.

the agent of the plaintiff was told that the wheat belonged tO
parties," in whom defendants had pleaded property-as also
the evidence to contradict the receipt.
Fourth. The Judge of the District Court should not have decided to refuse a new trial, if defendants would consent to remit
a part of the recovery for dete'ntion, when a recovery had been
secured by testimony taken under objection.
Mr Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears, in this case, that C. H. Hutchinson was a warehouseman at the city of Ranasho, (formerly Southport,) in
Wisconsin, and in that character had received on deposit large
quantities of wheat from different persons, which, by common
consent, was mingled in general mass.
On the 22d of February, 1850, Hale, Many, and Ayer, the
defendants, succeeded Hutchinson in the business and possession of this warehouse; and at the time the possession was
transferred, the portions of wheat to which the several depositors
were respectively entitled, were separated and put into different
.bins; and the old receipts given by Hutchinson, surrendered.
In this diiision, 7000 bushels, which had been deposited at
different times by Adams & Son, were placed in a separate bin
for them; and they, as well as Hutchinson and Hale, Many and
Ayer, were .present when the division was made.
Previous to this, however, ahd while Hutchinson -wasstill
carrying on business at the warehouse, he gave the following
teceipt to Hubbard, Faulkner & Co.
Received into store, Southport, January 19, 1850, for account
of Messrs. Hubbard, Faulkner & Co., four thousand bushels of
spring wheat, deliverable on board vessel free of charge, on return of this receipt, and not insured against fire.
4000 bushels of wheat.
C.L. HuTrCINsoN.
Hubbard, Faulkner & Co. never deposited any wheat at the
warehouse, but paid Hutchinson $2,640 as the price of the
quantity mentioned in the receipt; and afterwards sold it to
John Jackson, the plaintiff in error, for $1,050, and indorsed and
delivered to him the receipt.
The plaintiff, claiming to be entitled to this quantity of wheat
under this assignment, sued out a writ of replevin against the
defendants, and the marshal, under the direction of the agents
of the plaintiff, teplevied and delivered to him 4000 busl~els of
wheat, part of the 7000 bushels, placed in a bin for Adams &
Son,as herein before mentioned.
The defendants appeared and pleaded sundry pleas, and
among others, property in Adams & Son. And at the trial, the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

527

Jackson v. Hale et al.

jury found for the defendants, and that the wheat taken, was
the property of Adams & Son; and its value, $2,640; and
assessed damages for the detention, at the sum of four hundred
dollars.
Upon a motion made by the plaintiff, for a new trial, the
court it seems, were of opinion that a new trial should be
granted, unless the defendant remitted all the damages assessed
as aforesaid, beyond the interest on the value of the wheat from
the day it was taken under the replevin, to the day of trial.
And under this opinion of the court, the defendants remitted all
of the damages, except one hundred and one dollars, and the
judgment was thereupon accordingly entere4.
Upon this judgment the present writ of error is brought.
The facts above stated, are set out in an exception taken by
the plaintiff. The statement shows, that Hubbard, Faulkner &
Co., in whose favor the warehouse receipt was given by Hutchinson, never deposited any wheat in this wvarehouse, but paid
for this receipt in money. And the plaintiff offers no evidence
but the receipt itself to show that -Hutchinson had any. wheat
of his own in this warehouse at the time it was given, or at any
other time; and in the division which took place when the possession wag transferred to the defendants, none was set apart as
belonging to Hutchinson.
Upon such a state of facts, it is difficult to see how any ques,
tion of law could have arisen, open to dispute. The plaintiff
indeed objected to the evidence offeredcto prove that the wheat
replevied was, in thd division of the general mass, set apart in a
bin'as the property of Adams & Co. But if there was any thing
in the objection, (and clearly there was not,) it would not avail the
plaintiff unless he could show that it belonged to him. For he
could not maintain the replevin unless he proved that the wheat
was his property. And if he had no wheat there, it was perfectly immaterial whether it was lawfully divided, or remained
in general mass. And if the want of a legal division among
the owners, prevented it from being specifically the property of
Adams & Co., it would equally prevent it from being the separate property of the plaintiff, even if he was entitled to the
quantity hte claimed in the general mass.
So, too, he excepts to evidence oflred to prove-that Hubbard
Faulkner & Co. had never deposited any wheat in the warehouse. The evidence was undoubtedly admissible. For whether
the) had done so or not, was the fact in dispute. Besides, the
plaintiff himself had already proved the fact by his own witness,
Faulkner, who stated that Hubbard, Faulkner & Co. paid
money to Hutchinson for the wheat. They did not, therefore,
deposit it themelves. And as regards the damages remitted,

SUPREME COURT.
Stephens v. Cady.

certainly the plaintiff is not injured by having the judgment
rendered against him for a smaller sum intead of a larger. If
either party had a right to complain of the opinion of the court
under which the renittiturwas entered, it was the defendants,
and not the plaintiff. For, if a party uses the process of the
law wilfully and oppressively, his conduct may be considered by
the jury in estimating the damages susteined by the injured
party. And proof of the conduct of the agents of the plaintiff
in this respect, and also of the damage sustained by the defendants by the loss of a favorable market, were properly submitted
to the consideration of the jury.
The receipt of Hutchinson, upon which fie plaintiff relied, did
not prove, or tend to prove, that the wheat -caken on the replevin
was the wheat therein mentioned - or that any wheat belonging to Hutchinson, or to Hubbard, Faulkner & Co., ever came
to the hands of the defendants. It showed that Hutchinson
held so much wheat for Hubbard, Faulkner & Co. But the defendants are not answerable for his contracts, or his warehouse
receipts, unless it is shown that the property came into their
possession. And the're is not the slightest evidence to show that
any wbeat, belonging either to Hutchinson cr to Hubbard, Faulkner & Co., was ever in the warehouse after it was transferted to
the defendants.
The judgment of the District Court is alrmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Wisconsin, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said District Court, in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and interest until
the same is paid, at the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of Wisconsin.

JAIES STEPHENS, APPELLANT, V. ISAAC

H.

CGAY.

'Where the copy-right of a map was taken out under th3 act of Congress, and the
copperplate engraving seized and sold under an execution, the purchaser did not
acquie the right to st 4ke off and sell copies of the ma-r.
The court below decided that an injunction to prevent such striking off and selling,
could not issue, without a return of the purchase-mogey. This decision was
erroneous.
A copy-right is a "property in notion, and has no corporeal tangible substance," and

