DECEMBER TERAM,

185S.

29

Hagan v. Walker et al.

JOHN HAGAN, SURVIVING PARTNER OF THE LATE FIRM OF JOHN
HAGAN & Co., APPELLANT, V. LEROY P. WALKER, ADmINISTRATOR OF WILLIAM I-LPOPE, DECEASED, AND FRANCES
ANN POPE, WIDOW AND GUARDIAN AD LITEINI OF WILLIAM
POPE AND JULIA ANN POPE, MINOR CHILDREN OF SAID WILLIAM H. POPE, DECEASED, AND SAMUEL BR CK, ADmINISTRATOR OF LEROY POPE, DECEASED.
A court of equity has jurisdiction of a bill igainst the administrator of a deceased
debtor and a person to whdm xcal and personal property was conveyed by the de
ceac~vd debtor, for the purpose of defrauding creditors.
In such a c.ce, the court does not exercise an auxiliary jurisdiction to aid legal procels, and consequently it is not necessary that the creditor should be in a condition
to levy an execution, if the fraudulent obstacle should be removed.
It is proper to make a prior encumbrancer, who holds the legal title, i party to the
bill, in order that the whole title may be sold under the decree; for the purpose of
such a decree, the prior encumbraneer is a necessary party; but the court may order
a sale subject to the encumbrance, without having the prior eneumbrancer before it,
and in fit cases it will do so.
If the prior encumbrancer is out of the jurisdiction, or cannot be joined without defeating it, it is a fit cause to dispense with his presence, and order a sale subject to
his encumbrance, which will not be affected by the decree.

THIS was an ,appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Alabama.
The bill was originally filed- in the names of John Hagan, of
New Orleans, and a citizen of the State of Louisiana, and
Thomas Barrett, of New Orleans, and a citizen of the State
of Louisiana, -formerly commission merchants and. partnbrs,
trading under the firm, name, and style of John Hagan & Co.,
complainants, against William H. Pope,-of Huntsville, and a
citizen of the State of Alabama, Samuel Breck, of Huntsville,
and a citizen of the State of Alabama, the said I reck being
the administrator of the esttte of Leroy Pope, who in- hisi lifetime resided in Huntsville, and was a: citizen of the State ofAlabama, and Charles B. Penrose, of Washington city, and a
citizen of the Distri-t of Columbia, and successor in office of
Virgil Maxcy, who in his lifetime resided in Washington city,
and was a citizen of the District of Columbia, and Solicitor of
the Treasury of the'United States.
The suit * as commenced in February, 1846. The plaintiffs
were judgment creditors of Leroy Pope, by a judgment rendeked
in April, 1834, upon which an execution in Octpber,'1834,. was
returped, "No property found."
The plaintiffs sought to 'obtain satisfaction of this judgment,
from property which they allege the said Leroy Pope conveyed
fraudulently to his son William H. Pope, the defenidant.
This property was conveyed, March, 1834, by Leroy Pope to

SUPREME COURT
Hagan v. Walker et al.

William H. Pope, and iipon considerations which the plaintiffs
alleged to be colorable and inadequate.
The property thus conveyed, was charged to have been the
-whole estate of the said Leroy, and William H. Pope was
charged to have been, before that time, without. property, and
to have had no means of payment for this.
The plaintiffs alleged that the property was never delivered
to the "exclusive possession" of Williamn H. Pope, but "remained as much in the possession of the said Leroy as the said
William, and that the said Leroy and William enjoyed the proceeds and profits jointly."
They alleged that William H. Pope, in iarch, 1834, conveyed the land and slaves to the Solicitor of the Treasury in
mortgage, to secure a debt due to the United States by the said
Leroy Pope, of $29,290.90, which William H. Pope at that
date assumed, and for which he gave his notes; and that at the
same date he guaranteed to the United States a debt of $20,000,
for which other security had been given to the United States
by Leroy Pope.
They averred that the $20,000 thus mentioned, was paid
from the securities deposited by Leroy Pope, and that the only
debt really incurred by William H. Pope, was that for $29,290.90. This debt the plaintiffs admitted to be a charge on
the property, and they did not contest it. They charged, however, that the 'securities to the Solicitor of the Treasury were
designed by the grantor (William H. Pope) as a fraud upon the
creditors of Leroy Pope.
The death of Leroy Pope was alleged to have occurred in
1844, and the appointment of Breck, as administrator, in 1844.
The prayer of the bill.was, that the conveyances of Leroy
and William H. Pope should be declared null. That, after
satisfying the debt of the United States, the remainder of the
property should be appropriated to satisfy the debt of the plaintiffs. Process was prayed against William H. Pope and
Samuel Breck, administrators of Leroy Pope, and the Solicitor
of the Treasury, (Penrose,) a citizen of the District of Columbia.
The defendants, Breck and Pope, demurred to the bill; -the
demurrer was allowed by the District Court, and the bill was
dismissed.
An appeal from this decree of dismissal brought the case up
to this court. It was argued by Mr. bohnson for the appellant,
and 1r. J: A. Campbell for the appellees.
As the demurrer was sustained in the court below, the points
before this court to be argued were, the reasons for dismissing
the bill and sustaining the demurrer. These were stated by
M. Campbell, as follows, and it is sufficient to state the points
and authorities.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

31

Hagan v. Walker et al.

I. That the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery to set aside
conveyances executed by a failing debtor to defraud creditors,
is not an original and independent jurisdiction of that court,
but is an auxiliary and limited jurisdiction. The creditor must
show that the remedies at law have been exhausted -that there
is an obstruction which can only be removed by the aid of the
Court of Chancery, dnd that his cause is so situated at law,
that, upon the interposition of the court in the manner sought,
he could immediately enforce the right he claims.' 3 Mlylne &
Craig, 407; 11 S. & M. 366; 8 Barb. N. Y. R. 593; 7 Ala.
319, 928; 1 Hill's So. Car. R. 297, 307; 20 Johns. 554 ;'2 Rand.
384; 1 Paige, 388.
II. The hill shows in this case three facts sufficient to have
determined the lien of the judgment against Leroy Pope, under
the laws of the United States, and the State of Alabama.
Five years had elapsed from the 3d of Mlarch, 1839, before the
filing of the bill. The act of Congress of that date determined
the lien. '5 Stat. at Large, 338.
Ten years had elapsed from the judgment and return of the
last execution. 'Clay's Digest, 206,207, ยง 28,29; 5 Ala. R. 188;
18 Ala. 675; 19 Ala. 207.
The death of Leroy Pope put an end to the lien of the judg.
rment and the right to issue execution. Bush v. Jones, 13 Ala.
R. 167.
III. The plaintiff sets forth the conveyance of Leroy Pope
to William H. Pope, to have taken place in 1834. He does
not aver that the conveyance was upon any trust for. Leroy
Pope, nor does he aver that any title remained in Leroy Pope.
The bar of the statute of limitations of six years will apply to
the personal property. 7 Yerger, 222; 1 Bailey, Ch. R. 228; -1
Humnph. 335; 1 Hill, Ch. R. 113; 8 Yerger, 145; 7 Wheat. 60,
117, &c.; Peck's Rep. 41.
IV. The Court of Chancery, except in cases of express trusts
and fraud, follow the courts of law in the application of the
statute of limitation.
In this case no trusts in favor of Leroy Pope. are charged to
exist; nor is there an averment that the plaintiff did not discover till within six years the fraudulent purpose and consideration upon which they were made.
In the absence of such averments, the court will presume the
possession to have been consistent with the legal title, and the
bar of the statute wNli run. from the date of the title deeds. 4
How. S. C. R. 503, 560; 7 How. 234; 10. Wheat. 168.
In reference to personal property, the limitation upon personal
actions is adopted in equity. 1 Dev. & B. Eq. 95; 5 Ala. R.
90, 508; 3 Ala. R. 756.

82

S UPRYME COURT.
Ragan v. Walker et al.

V. No averment is made by the plaintiff showing the condition of the estate of Leroy Pope, after his death. The bill
contains an averment, that the crops from the lands and other
profits of the estate have been large, and that Leroy Pope enjoyed them till his death.
There is nothing to how that ample means are not to be
found in the hands of the administrator to pay the debt. No
presentment to, nor demand of, the administrator is averred, and
no refusal to pay on his part shown. A bill must show this, or
it is fatally defective. 3 Ham. 287; 5 Ear. & J. 381; 5 Gill
& J. 432; 2 MeCord's Oh. R. 416, 169.
V. The court had no jurisdiction of the cause. The Solicitor of the Treasury, a citizen of the Dis-rict of Columbia, is
made a party. The prayer of the bill is to cancel deeds made
to him, and io appropriate property in which he has a legal
right. 3 Cranch, 267; 14 Pet. 60, 65.
IMWr.
Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
John Hagan & Co. filed their bill in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama, in which
they state that, in the year 1834, they recovered a judgment at
law in that court against Leroy Pope, for upwards of seven
thousand dollars, which is wholly unsatisfied; that a writ of
fieri facias, running against the lands, goods, and body of the
debtor, was regularly issued, and, on the 10th day of October,
1834, was returned null bona; and from that time to the filing
of the bill, there has not been, in that district or elsewhere, any
property of Leroy Pope out of which the judgment-debt could
be. collected, except certain property afcerwards mentioned.
The bill further alleges that, about a month before the complainants recovered their judgment at law, Leroy Pope, intending to defraud the complainants, and to hinder them from obtaining payment, made conveyances, both of real and personal
estate, to a large amount, to his son, William H. Pope, who
was a party to the fraud, and is made a defendant in the bill;
that Leroy Pope died in the year 1844, an6. Samuel Breck, who
was appointed his administrator, is also a party defendanit.
The complainants are averred to be citizens of Louisiana, and
William H. Pope and the administrator citizens of Alabama.
TAe defendants having demurred to the bill, it was dismissed
by the District Court, and the complainant, who is the surviving
purtner, appealed to this court.
The principal ground upon which the demurrer has been
rested.in this court is, that the bill does not show that the complainants are entitled to equitable relief. The argument is, that
the jurisdiclion of a court of equity, to aid a judgment-creditor,

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

33

Hagan v. Walker et al.

by remqving a fraudulent encumbrance on the property of his
deltor, is ancillary merely; that this aid is not given unless the
creditor has obtained a lien at law upon the specific property
sought for, if that be legal property upon which an execution
could be levied; or if it be equitable assets, not liable to a levy
by execution; that the creditor must have exhausted'his legal
remedy, by t return of aulhz bona. on his execution, and must
also be in a condition to proceed at once at law to enforce his
right, if the obstacle should be removed. 'That if his judgment
has become ineffectual to entitle him to an execution, so that he
could not levy, even if the assets were legal, and not subject to
any fraudulent encumbrance, equity will not exert itself to subject equitable property to the payment of his judgment. And
it is further argued, that, aebording to the local law of Ala-,
bama, governing these proceedings at lawv, the judgment-creditors had lost their lien on the pers6nal estate of the debtor, because they had suffered more than one- term to elapse without
issuing an alias execution; and upon the real estate, because
more than ten years elapsed after ihe return of their last execution, and before this bill was filed; and that the lien, both upon'
the personal and rel estate, was destroyed by the death of
Leroy Pope, which suspended the. right to issue an execution.
That,by reason of his death and the lapse, of more than ten
years, the right to issue an execution being suspended, equity
would not ubject equitable assets to the payment of this judgment.
It does riot distinctly appear whether the property sought to
be reached by this bill is equitable or legal. There is reason to
suppose, from some allegations in the bill, that a pa .or the
whole of the property was conveyed by Leroy Pope, in 1831,
ta Louis McLane, as Secretary of the. Treasury, to secure a
debt due to the Urrited States by a deed of trust, and this conveyance is not impeached. If it embraced the whole or any
part of the property now in question, only an equitable estate
therein was left in Leroy Pope. 'The bill is not distinct in its
allegations on this subject; but we do not deem it necessary
that it should be; because we are of opinion that this case is
not to be treated as an application by a judgment-creditor for
the exercise of the ancillary jurisdiction of the court, to aid him
in executing legal process, but comes under a head of original
jurisdiction in eouity. It is a bill b a creditor of a deceased
debtor, against the administrator and a party who is fraudulently
holding all the property of the deceased, which in equity should
be applied to the paymeit of this dbt, and the bill prays that
the debt may be paid out of this fund. That a single creditor
may maintain a bill against an administrator of a deceased

34

SUPREME COURT.
Hagan 7Y.Walker et al

debtor, for a discovery of Assets and the payment of his debt,
there can be no doubt. That, in sone cases, he may join with
the administrator a third person, who is in possession of property which is amenable to the payment of the debt, is also clear.
The instances in which ifWhas been actually held that such third
person might be joined, are chiefly cases of collusion between
the administrator and the third person possessed of assets, insolvenc .of the administrator, and where the third -person was the
surviving partner of the deceased. Utterson v. Mair, 2 Ves.
Jr. 95; Alsager -. Rowley, 6 Ves. 748; Burroughs v. Elton,
11 Ves. 29; Gedge v. Traill, 1 Russ. & M. 281; Long v. Majestre, 1 Johns. Ch. Rep. 306. But it will be found that the
equitable right of tie creditor to join a thir. person, and have a
discovery and an appropriation of assets held by him,, has never
been limited to thbse particular cases.
For, while it is generally agreed that some special case must
be made, it is also declared in all the cases, that what is to constitute it has not been limited by any precise and rigid rule. In
Holland v.- Prior, (1 My. & .K.240,) Lord Brougham applied
the rule to the ease of a representative of a deceased representative, -vithout any suggestion of 6ollusicn between him and
the present representative. In Simpson v. Vaughn, (2 Atk.
33,) Lord Hardwicke said: "It has been said at the bar, that
you may make any person a defendant that you apprehend has
pdssessed himself of assets upon which you have a lien. But
this certainly cannot be laid down as a general rule; for it
would be of dangerous consequence to insisv that you can make
any-person a defendant who has assets, unless you can .how to
the court he denies that he has assets, or applies them improperly." Considering, then, that some specia., and sufficient reasons must be- shown for proceeding against a third person,
jointly with the administrator, the inquiry is, whether this bill
does not contain those reasons; and we are of opinion it does.
It appears, from the statements in the bill, that William H.
Pope isin possession, of all the assets of the deceased debtor,
both real and personal, holding them under conveyances made
fo him by the. deceased, absolute. in form, but accompanied by
secret trusts in favor of the- grantor, designed to defr'aud this
particular creditor, and prev~nt him from obtaining payment
of hi judgment, and that this fraudulent design has thus far
been successfully executed.
Now these conveyances are not only valid on their face, but
they are really valid as betveen the parties; and though they
are void as against creditors., and the property, both at law and
in equity, is subject to the payment of the debts of the deceased, yet the embarrassments attending any attempt by the

DECEMBER TERM, 18-52.

35

Hagan v. Walker et al.

administrator to possess himself even of that part of these
assets, which were personalty, at law would certainly be great,
and perhaps insuperable. 2 Rand. Rep, 384; lMartin v.-Root,
17 Mass. Rep. 228. It is true he is the representative of creditors, as well as of the next of kin, and in the former capacity
might be able to make good his claim to a sufficient amount of
these personal assets to enable* him to pay the debts. Holland.
v. Cruft, 20 Pick. 321. But the impracticability of taking an
account of the debts at law, and proportioning the recovery to
the amount required to pay them, would -render a resort to
equity indispensable -to do entire justice between all parties,
even if the- assets were legal in their nature. If this bill had
contained an allegation that the administrator had been requested to sue, and had refused, the ease would be free from all
doubt; and, upon the fhets averred" in the bill, we do not think
such a reqriest necessary; because it' does appear that about
two years elapsed after the death of Leroy Pope before this bill
was filed, and the administrator took no step to reduce these
assets tb possessio.n; because, when this bill was .filed, he re.
sists it by a demurrer, relying on the statute 'of limitations; because it must be admitted to have been doubtful how- far he
had a remedy, without the concurrence of' any creditor; and
chiefly, because there is no danger of interfering with the due
course of administrations; or taking from administrators their
proper control over suits for the recovery of, assets, by holding
fhat'a creditor may file a bill against the administrator and the
fraudulent giantee of deceased debtor, to subject the property
fraudulently conveyed to the payment of the debt. . It comes
within the case put by Lord Hardwicke; for herd this specific
property is amenable to the claim of this creditor, and in the
sense in which he employs the word, the creditor had a lien
upon these assets; and it does appear to the court, that the
party holding them both denies that they are assets and applies
them improperly, for he claims them as his own, and is endeavoring to defeat a just creditor by an assertion of a title invalid
as against him.
In this view of the case, it is not essential that the creditor
cannot.proceed at law until after a revival of the judgment by
a . scire facias. In Burroughs v. Elfon, (11 Ves. 36- 7,) Lord
Eldon had occasion to consider the force of this objection in a
similar case. It was a bill to reach real assets in.the hands of
a surviving partner. The complainant's judgment was upwards
of seventeen years old, and no step had been taken to revive it
against the administrator or the heir. His decision, in accordance Niith two previous cases to which he refers, was, that such
a creditor could sustain the bill, though it might be necessary to
diiect him to proceed at law to revive his judgment.

86

SUPREME 60URT.
Hagan v. Walker et al

It has been argued, that the bill does not show that there are
not other assets in the hands of the admiristrator sufficient to
pay this debt, and coxitains no allegation that the administrator
was ever requested to pay it. But the bill does expressly aver,
that, aside from the property fraudulently conveyed, there is
not, any where, any property of Leroy Pope, out of which the
debt could be collected; and, although it states that the fraudulent grantor and grantee both remained in possession, and took
the crops jointly, and that these crops were of great value, yet,
inasmuch as between themselves the, crops belonged to the
grantee, and as it was the object of the conveyances to prevent
therfi from being applied to the benefit of creditors, we are of
opinion.there is no presumption that any th ng arising from this
joint possession ever came to the hands of the administrator,
and, therefore, that a demand on him would have been a vain
act, which the creditor was not compelled to do.
One other ground on which the demurrer ha.s been rested, requires notice. The bill alleges that, after the fraudulent conveyances to Wilqiam H. Pope had been made, he mortgaged the
property to Virgil Maxcy, as- Solicitor of the Treasury of the
United States, to secure the debt of Leroy Pope which \Villiam
H. Pope assumed to pay, and it avers that this debt has been in
part paid by means described in the bill. Virgil Maxcy and,
subsequently when he went out of office, his successor, Charles
B. Penrose, were named as parties to the bil, but they were out
of the jurisdiction, no process was served on either of them, and
neither ever appeared or answered. The bill prays that William
H. Pope may be compelled to pay to the United States the
balance due to them, out of the property in question, and that
the residue may be subjected to the payment of the complainant's debt, and for other and further relief.
Under the act of Congress of the 28th of February, 1839,
(5 Stat. at Large, 321, ยง 1,) it does not defeat the jurisdiction of
the court that a person named as defendant is not an inhabitant
of or found within the district where the suit is brought; the
court may still adjudicate between the parties who are properly
before it, and the absent parties are not to be concluded or atf
fected by the decree.
It is obvious, however, that there may be cases in which the
court cannot adjudicate between the parties who are regularl)
before it, for the reason that it cannot bini those who are ab
sent. Where no relief can be given without taling an accouni
between an absent party and one before the 'court, though the
defect of parties may not defeat the jurisdiction, strictly speaking, yet the court will make no decree in favor of the complainant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

37

Hagan v. Walker et al.

The case before us is not one of this character; for although
the whole of the relief specially prayed for cannot be granted
in the particular mode there indicated, because the United
States not being a party, no account can be taken of the debt
due to them from Leroy Pope or William H. Pope, yet, subject
to the encumbrance of this debt, and without affecting it in any
manner, the property may be appropriated to the payment of
the complainant's debt.
It is true, that in Finley v. The Bank of the United States,
(11 Vheat. R. 306,) which was a bill to foreclose a mortgage
by sale, Chief Justice Marshall says: "It *cannot be doubted
that the prior mortgagee ought regularly to -have been a party
defendant, and that had the existence of his mortgage been
known to the court, no decree ought to have been pronounced
in the cause until he was introduced into it." But it could not
have been intended by this to say, that a prior encumbrancer
was absolutely a necessary party without whose presence no
decree of sale could be made, because in that very case the
court refused to treat the decree as erroneous, after it had been
executed.
In Delabere v. Norwood, (3 Swanst. R. 144, n.) in a bill to
obtain payment of an annuity charged on land, prior annuitants
were held not to be necessary parties. In Rose v. Page, (2 Sim.
471,) the same rule was applied to a prior mortgagee; and in
Wakeman .v.Grover, (4 Paige, R. 23,) and Rundell v. Marquis
of Donegal, (1 Hogan, 308,) and Post v. Mackall, (3 Bland,
495,) to prior judgment creditors; and in Parker v. Fuller, (I
Russ. & My. 656,) persons having encumbrances on real property, which the bill sought to subject to the payment of debts
of the deceased owner, were held not ta be necessary parties to
the bill. See also Hoxie v. Carr, I Sum. R. 173; Calvert on
Parties, 128.
On the other hand there are eases in which it has been
declared that all encumbiancers are necessary parties. Many
are collected in Story's E, P. 178, n. But we consider the
true rule to be, that, where it is the object of the bill to pro.
cure a sale of the land, and the prior encumbrancer holds the
legal title, and his debt is payable, it is proper to make him a
party in order that a sale may be made 6f the whole title. In
this sense, and for this purpose, he may be correctly said to, be
a necessary party, that is, necessary -to such a decree. But it is
in the power of the court o order a sale subject to the prior encunbrance, a power which it will exercise in fit cases. And
when toe prior encumbrancer is not subject to the jurisdiction
of tne court, ol cannot be joined without defeating its jurisdiction, and the valdity of*the encumbrance is admitted, it is fit
VOL. XIV.

4

38

SUPREME COURT.
Kennett et al. v. Chambers.

to dispense with his being made a party. To such a case the
47th rule for the equity practice of the Circuit Courts of the
United States is applicable, and by force of it, this cause may
proceed without making the United States, or the Solicitor of
the Treasury a party to the decree.
The decree of the District Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded, with directions to overrule the demurrer and
order the defendants, other than the representative of the United
States, to answer the bill.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, reversed

wvb

costs, and that this cause be,

and the same is hereby, remasited to the said District Court,
with directions to overrule the derrirxer, an-l to order the defend-

ants, other than the representative of the United States, to answer the bill.

JOHN KENNETT, EZEIIEL S. HAINES, EDEN B. REEDER, GEORtGE
GRAHAM, JR., JOHN MCCARTY, JOSHUA YORK9, AND ROBERT
B. BOWLER, APPELLANTS, v. THOMAS J. CHAMhBERS.
t belongs exclusively to the political department of the government to recognize or
to refuse to recognize a new government in a foreign country, claiming to have displaced the old and established a new one.
Until the political department of the government acknowledged the independence of
Texas, the Judiciary were bound to consider the old order of things as having
continued.
While the government of the United States acknowledged its treaty of limits and of
amity and friendship with Mexico as still subsisting an. obligatory, no citizen of the
.United States could lawfully furnish supplies to Texas to enable'it to carry on the
war against Mexico.
A contract, made in Cincinnati, after Texas declared itelf independent, but before
its indepe~enc was acknowledged by the United Stc.tes, whereby the complainants agreed to furnish, and did furnish money to a General in the Texan army, to
enable him to raise and equip troops to be employed against Mexico, was illegal
and void, and cannot be enforced in a court of the Unitcd States.
The circumstance that the Texan officer agreed, in consideration of these advances
of money, to convey to them certain lands in Texas, o "which he covenanted that
he'was then the owner, will not make the contract valid when it appears upon the
face dfdit, and by the averments in the bill, that the object and intention of the
complainants in advancing the money was to assist Texas in its military operations.

