SUPREM1E COUTIT.

52

Wiswall v. Sampson.

agreed to make for military purposes was in fact made and intended to be made in Cincinnati, by the delivery of their promissory notes, which were accepted by the appellee as payment
of the money. This appears on the face of the contract. And
it is this advance of money for the purposes mentioned in the
agreement, in contravention of the neutral obligations and policy
of the United States, that avoids the contract. The mere agreement to accept a conveyance of land lying in Texas, for a valu'able consideration paid by them, would have b&en free from
objection.
But- had the fact been otherwise, certainly no law of Texas
then or now in force could absolv& a citizen of the United States,
while he continued such, from his duty to this government, nor
compel a court of the United States to support a contract, no
matter where made or where to be executed, if that contract was
in violation of their laws, or contravened the public policy of
the government, or was in conflict with subsistihg treaties with
a foreign nation.
We therefore hold this contract to be illegal and voidl, and
affirm the decree of the District Couir
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be beard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

JOSEPH WISWALL, PLAINTIFF

LEssEE OF

IN

ERROR, V. DAVID

SAMPSON,

EDWARD HALL AND EDWARD S. DAIRGAN.

Where real estate is in the custcrdy of a receiver, appointed by a court of chancery,
a sale of the property under an execution issued by virtue of a judgment at law, is
illegal and void.
The proper modes of proceeding pointed out, to be pursued by any person who
claims title to the property, either by mortgage, or judgment, or otherwise.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States .for the Sout ern District of Alabama.

DECE3BER TERM, 1852.

53

Wiswall v..Sampson.

It was an ejectment for the following lot, in the city of Mobile, bounded south by St. Francis street, and lying between
Water and Commerce and Planters streets of 'the said city,

having a front of thirty-live feet on St. Francis street, and extending to Planters street, with the same breadth; bolanded

east by lands formerly belonging to M. D. Eslava, and west by
a lot of Beach, Ela & Co.
The declaration contained three counts; two upon a demise
from Edward Hall, a citizen of the State of Maryland, an I the

third a demise from Edward S. Dargan.
All hough the decision of the court turned upon a single point
it is necessary to connect it with the other circumstances of the
case which are somewhat complicated.

The following table contains a reference to the principal facts
bearing upon the respective titles of the plaintiff and defendant
1-10, April 28..Ticknor, being in possession, conveyed the property to Day
Def ndant's Title.
PlaiatifT's Title.
1840.
1840.
Dc(. 28. Fowler and others obtained a
judgment against Ticknor for S4,991.
Dc 31. Crouch and Sneed obtained a
judgm, nt against Ticknor for S7,176.25.
1842.
1842.
June 14. Wiswall obtained judgment
against Ticknor 4Dr $2,233.17.
July 1. Fii.fj. issued on it, returned "no
property found.'

1843.
Feb. 7. Bill filed by Wiswall to set asido
the deed from Ticknor to Day as fraudulent.
1845.

1843.

1845.
Feb. 24. Alias ft. fa. on Crouch and
Sneed's judgment.
lias ft. fa. on Fowler's judgApril 7.
ment.

under the
July 7. Lot sold to Dargan
executions.
AugUzwt. 13. Marshal executed a deed to

April Term. Derd from Ticknor to Day
set aside as fraudulent.
June
27. Receiver appointedby the chancellor, took ]possession.

DNov. 26. Dargan applied to the chancel-

1847.

lor to have the properry delivered over
to him, or for leave to bring an ejectment. Both refused.
1847.
March 1. Lot sold by the master in
I

1848.
April
Dargan brought an ejectment
against Wiswall.

chancery to Wiswall, and depd made.

1848.

SUPREME COURT.
Wiswall v. Sampsou.

Upon the trial, the following bill of exceptions was taken:
Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause on .this 4th
day of January, 1849, before the Honorablie W illiam Crawford,
Judge, the plaintiffs, to show title, in their'lessors, offered in evidence a judgment rendered irA this court on the 28th December,
1840, in favor of C. S.' Fowler & Co., against John Ticknor, for
$4,991, besides costs;' also a judgment rendered in this court,
on the .31.st. December, 1840, in favor of Crouch and Sneed
against John.Ticknor, $7,176.25 and costs; upon each of which
j adgments fi. fas. wer issued within a year and .eturned Wy the
marshal, No property found; no other executions or process
issued- upon either of these judgment,, except the following:
Upon the judgment of *Crouch and Sneed an alias fi.fa. was
issuefil on thv" 24th February, 1845; and levied on the property
bued. for, upon which the marshal returned, Levied - and "the
sale of the property levied on postponed by Judge E. S; Dargan,
until further order," And on the 17th May, 1846, a pluriesfi.fa.
issued on this judgrient and was levied on the same property.
Jpon the judgment of C. S. Fowler & Co. an aliasfi.fa. was
issued oh the 17th -of Akpril, 1845, and leviEd on the same property, and returned, For want of time to sell. And on the first
day of May, 1845, a venditioni exponas issued, upon which and
the execution on the Crouch and Snead judgments, issued
the 17th May,- thc property was sold by th2 marshal on the 7th
July, 1846, to Edward S. Dargan, for $7,500 and a deed ws
made by the mar-nal to said Dargan, bearing date the'thirteenth
of August, 1845. The plaintiff further ofired in evidenee a
deed of release and quitclaim Qf th6 same premises, from Edward S. D.rgan to Ed'vard Hall, one of the lessors, bearing
datethe 'd of April, 1848, a copy of which is hereto attached,
marked X; to the reading of which the defendant, by his'attorney; objected, on the ground that it was neither acknowledged
nor recorded; but. the objection was overruled by the court, and
the deed admitted in evidence upon the proof of the handwrit.
ing 'of Dargan, and the defendant excepted. The plaintiff fur.
ther offered evidence to show-that John Ticknor was in posses.
sion of the properiy sued foi from 1838 -or 1839 claiming title,
and that he remained in possession until about 1845; but
*hether, after 1840, Ticknor claimed, it as his own, or held possession as the tenant of sonie- one else, witness did n6t know.
It further appeared that Ticknor built the store; that in 1839 or
1840, he became embarrasidd, and that he owed a large sum of
money t6 one James L.'Da', and from some time -in 1840 carried on business in the store as the agent of said Day. Day
was often there and had the control, but Ticknor managed all
the details. It -was further proved that McCoy and Johnson,
2

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

55

Wiswall v. Sam-pson.

the tenants served with the declaration, were in possession of
the premises in April, 1848, and had been in possession since
November, :1847.
The defendant then offered in evidence a judgment obtained
in the Circuit Couit of Mobile County, on the 14th day of
June, 1842,'in favor of Joseph Wiswall against John Ticknor,
for the sum of $2,233.17, besides costs; and a ft. fa. issued
thereon -the 1st July, 1842, returnable to the fall term' oi said
conrr, whichl was returned 'by the sheriff, No property found;
also the transcripts from the' records, duly certified, of a deed
.made by John Ticknor to James L. Day, bea*ng date the 28th
of April, 1840, a.copy of wh:h is annexed, marked A-; also
the exemplification of a decree and proceedings in a suit in
chancery, filed the 7th of February, 1843, by Joseph Wiswall,
as a ipdgment creditor of John Ticknor, against said Ticknor
atdlJames'L.'Day; a 6opy of Which bill, answers, and decrees,
are hereto annexed, marked B; also a decree and -proceedings
in the same court of chancery upon a bill filed March 1st, 1845,
by the president, directors, and company of the Bank of Mobile, James Stewart, and Henry Lazarus, several judgment
creditors of said Ticknor, and agaist said Ticknor and James
S. Day,. which bill was similar in its form and object to the bill
of Wiswah, and was served on the defendant, Ticknor, on the
1st Macb, 1845; a copy of the answer of Day, and the decree,
is annexed, marked C. The defendant then F-oved that Waring, the receiver of the Court of Chancery in'the above two
suits, went into the possession of the property sued for on St.
Francis street, as such receiver on the 27th day of June, 1845,
and remained in possession as such receiver until the same was
sold- by him on the first Monday of March, 1847; that noti~e
was given at the marshal's sale, when the property was bid off
by Dargan, of the pendency of the above-named guits in
chancery, and the claims of. the complainants there asserted,
and that he was, as receiver aforesaid, then in possession of
said property under the ddcre~s in chancery in the above suits.
The property was duly sold by the receiver on the 1st day of
March, 1847, to K. B. Sewall for six thousand five hundred dollars, and a deed of the sam made to him by the said receiver
and master i- chancery; and on the tenth day of May, 1847,
the same was conveyed by said Sewall to the defendant; Joseph
Wiswall; it was also sho0wn that the purchaser f-om th6 receiver went into possession, and that the wnole amount of the
purchase-money was paidi and appropriated under the-directions
of the Court of Chancery.
The defendant then offered in evidence the transcript of a
decree and proceedings fiad in a court of chancery, in Mobile,

S6

SUPREME COURT.
Wiswall v. Sampson.

upon the pitition of :Fdward S. Datgan against Moses Waring,
receiver, Joseph Wiswall, John Ticknor, and James L. Day, a
copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit D; which de.cree had been affirmed by the Supreme .Court; C. Cuyler, the
deputy marshal who niade the sale to Dargan, testified that no
money whatever was paid upon said sale, but that Dargan gave
his note to the niarsbal for the costs.
John F..Adams testified that he actr.4 as the attorney of C.
S: Fowler &.Co. in recovering their judgment in this court, and
had ever since represented said judgment; and that E. S. Dargan, from some tine prior to the marshal's sale, represented the
judgment of Crouch and Sneed;. that it was agreed between
said attorneys, Adams and Dargan, representing said judgments,
that the land should be sold upoi them, and bid off in the name
of Dargan, and that if the title' thus acquired should enable
Dargan to recover the property, the judgment of C. S. Fowler
& Co. should be paid out of it; but that if the property should
.not be recovered by such title, then the sale was to be considered a nullity, and no money to be paid whatever on account
of it; and that this was the understanding of Adams, but that
after the sale- he yielded to the views of Dargan, and signed a
me morandui to the effect that Dargan should be a trustee for
the parties. It was further in evidence that with the arrangements between Dargan and Adams there was no connection
on the part of Ticknor, the defendant in the judgment, and no
assent was given by him to them.
Adams also testified that, as the representative of the judgment bf C. S. Fowler & Co., he entered a motion in this court
at the spring term, 1847, to amend the marshal's return made
Upon the execution in that case, to show that no money was in
fact paid on said bid of Dargan; and said motion was produced
afid read to the jury, and is still pending and undetermined
Defendant then. offered. to read a bill filed in the Chancery
Court of Mobile, on the 18th February, 1847, in the name of
David A. Hall, assignee in bankriptcy of C. S. Fowler & Co.,
against John Ticknor, James L. Day, Moses Waring, receiver,
James
Stewart,
and Henry
Bank
of Mobile,
Joseph
approandl have
to reach
bill was
of which
the object
Lazarus,Wiswall,
Co.
priated to the payment of said judgment of-toC.beS. Fowler
made in&that'
the proceeds of the sale of the property
court upon the bill of said Wiswall and others; said bill was
of the parties, and sets forth,
m.
fled bJy F. Adams, as socitor
aThat
the said premises
among other things, the fbllowing:
were sold on the1st of July, 184 , by the marshal,' to Edward
the Dagan, for the nominal sum of $7,O0, and the marshal exsame, and therethe
edted to said Dargan his formal deed for

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

5?

Wiswall v. Sampson.

upon made return upon the process that the premises were sold
for the sum above narped, And your orator now averreth, that
in fact neither the sum of $7,600, nor any other sum, was paid
by said Dargan to the, plaintiffs in execution, or to any person
for them, but his said bid was made upon his stipulation made
with the plaintiffs' attorney, and on the distinct understanding
and intent on his part, that in case his title under the said
sale should prove to be valid and effectual in law, he would pay
to the said plaintiffs or your orator so much money upon his
said bid as he might thereafter be able to realize by a sale; but
if the said title should not prove to be ayailable nor enable him
to obtain possession, that in that case he should pay nothing."
Said bill is nob sworn to, and is still pending in the Court of
Chancery: to the introduction of this bill as evidence, the. plain.
tiff objected on the ground that it was not connected with the
plaintiffs in this suit, and as being the statement of counsel
merely, .andnot evidence against C. S. Fowler & Co.; and the
objection was sustained, and the said bill excluded; to which
the defendant, by his counsel, excepted. This was all the evidence offered in the case, and thereupon the court charged the
jary

-

That the deed from Ticknor to Day, of April 28th, 1840, was,
upon its face, in connection with the answers of Ticknor and
Day, fraudulent as to creditors, and void; to which, the defendant oxcepted.
The court further qharged, that the title of Dargan, derived
from the marshal's sale, under the judgment of C. S. Fowler &
Co. and of Crouch & Sneed, was superior to the title of Wiswall, derived from the sale under the chancery proceedings, and
entitled the plaintiffs to recover; to which the defendant, by his
counsel, excepted.
The court further charged the jury, that the proceedings and
decree in the Court of Chancery, upon the petition of Dargan,
was not binding or conclusive upon the parties in this suit;
that it was not necessary for Dargan -to go into the Court of
Chancery for aid, that his remedy was at law, and the proceedings there upon his petition had no effect whatever upon his
title, and must be wholly disregarded in this suit; tq whieh-the
defendant, by his counsel, also excepted, and requested the court
to give the following charges-to the jury:1. That if the jury believe the deed from the marshal to
Dargan was made without any pecuniary consideration, it could
pass no title; which the court refused; but charged that, under.
the evidence before them, it was valid if no money was paid by
the purchaser, to which the defendant excepted.
2. That the filing of 'Wiswall's bill in chancery. and the pro-

SUPREMEB

COURT.

Wisw.all v. Sampson.,

ceedings thereon, to a final decree in his favor, gave him a
specific lien upon the property of Ticknor, :-rom the commencement of his suit, which could not be divested by any subsequent proceedings upon the older judgmeits under which the
plaintiffs here claim; which was refused, and the defendant excepted.
3. That the receiver of the Court of Chancery, in the suits of
Wiswall and others, being in possession of the property under
the order of that court at the time of the marshal's sale, and
notice thereof being given at that -sale, affected the purchaser,
and invalidated his title; which was. refused; and the court
charged that such possession and notice in no manner affected
the marshal's sale. or the purchaser under it; and the defendant excepted.
4. That the proceedings in the Court of Chancery, upon he
petition of Dargan, the purchaser at the marshal's sale, was
conclusive upon the parties and his title thus acquired; whichwas refused; and-the defendant excepted.
5. That, under the statutes and decisions. of Alabama, it is
not'the -oldest judgment, but the judgment lien, that has been
kept alive by the oldest execution, regularly issued, without the
loss of a teirm, that has tle priority as betveen judgment creditors; which was refused; and the defendant excepted.
6. That, if.'neither Dargan nor Edward Hall were in posses.
sion of the property on the 3d of April, 184 8, the deed of that
date, from Dargan tO Hall, was void and conveyed no title; this
was also refused; and the court charged that, under.the evidence
before the-jiiry, this deed was valid; -to all which the defendant
excepted.
'And the defendan't tenders the above as his bill of exceptions
in the case, and prays the court to sign and seal the sare,
which is done accordingly.
.WILLIAM CRAWFORD. [SEAL.]

All the exceptions were argued in this court; but it is only
necessary to refer to the above charge, viz., that the title of Dargan was superior to that of Wisw4l, and that the decree in
chancery, on the petition of Dargan, Was not conclusive upon
the rights of the parties; that he was not bound to go into that
court for relief, as his remedy was at law.
It was argued, by Mr. Seward, for the ploinfiff in error, with
a brief of Mr. Sewall, and by 11r. Chilton, for the defendant
in error, with a brief of Mr. John A. Campbell..
It was contended, by the counsel for the rlaintiff in error, that

DECEXBER T-ERM,

1852.

59

Wiswall v. Sam son.

the court erred in refusing to instruct the jury," that the receiver
of the Court of Chancery, in the suits of Wgisw all and others,
being in possession of the property, under.the order of the court,
at the time of the marshal's sale, and notice thereof being giv i
at that sale, affected the purchase by Dargan and invalidated
his title, and in charging, on the contrary, that such possession
and notice in no manner affected the marshal's sale, or the purchase under it." Because, 1. The levy, under the .judgments of C. S.Fowler & Co. ond
Crouch & Sneed, invested neither the marshal with any title
nor the Federal Court with any jurisdiction over the land, nor
cold it divest any title, if the defendant Tickn'br was in possession, unless followed by an actual sale by the marshal, and
payment of the purchase-money by the purchaser. Forrest &
Lyon v. Camp, 16 Ala. 647.
And then, no.t until the sale took place and the money -as
paid. The sale took place in July; the deed was made iU
August. 1 Rich. Eq. Rep. 340.
2. But Ticknor was-not in possession. The Court of Chancery, by its receiver, was in possession on the 25th June previou ; and held, not for Ticknor, but for Wiswall and the other
parties claiming against Ticknor. 3 P. Wms. R. 379; 2 Story,
Eq. 833. The Court of Chancery was not holding the pro.
perty in safe custody, until the right should be determined between Wiswall on the one side, and Ticknor & Day on the
other; for it had already determined the right in favor of Wiswall, and ordered a sale, and the proceeds to be applied to his
judgment. Ticknor & Day v. Wiswall, 6 Ala. 178. Its jurisdiction was complete, and adverse to all third parties. 10
Paige, 43.
Where different courts have concurrent jurisdiction, that before -which proceedings are first had, and whose jurisdiction first
attaches, has authority.paramount to the others, and cannot be
ousted by subsequent proceedings in those courts. The Court
of Chancery took jurisdiction to decide upon the right and title
to this land, -When Wiswall filed his bill on the 7th February,
1843, and it codtinued its jurisdiction over it until it was sold
under its decree. No jurisdiction as to the premises attachedto the Federal Court before the sale to Dargan, if then. Hagan
v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400; Smith v. McIver, 9-Wheat. 532; Corning v.White, 2 Paige, 567; The Robert Fulton, 1 Paine, 621.;
P. & At Bank v. Walker, 7 Ala. 945; Parker v. Browning, 8
Paige, 389.
The counsel for the defendant in error thus noticed this
point: -

-UPREME COURT.
Wiswall v. Sanipson.

We deny'that the Court of Chancery could prevent the execution of the levy made by the marshal, by placing a receiver
in possession. The Court of Chancery insists upon no such
power.
The 'rule of chancery is stated in 7 Paige, 513. The headnotes are: "When property is rightfully in the hands of a
receiver, it is in the custody of the court, and cannot be disstrained upon for rent without permission of the court by
Nwthom the receiver was appointed; and any person who takes
the property out of the possession of the receiver.without such
permission, after he has notice of the character in which possession is holden, is guilty of a contempt."
The same principles are applicable to any interference with
the possession of a rereiver, sequestrator, committee, or custodee,
who holds the property as the officer of the Court of Chancery;
as his possession is the possession of the court itself. Noe v.
Gib~on, 7 Paige, 513.
"Where a receiver is in possession of real estate which is
subject to the lien of a judgment, the sale of the premises by
the sheriff, upon an execution on such judgment, does not disturb the possession of the receiver; and the sheriff cannot, therefore, be proceeded against for a contempt in making such a sale.
But the purchaser cannot -disturb the possession of the receiver,
when he obtains his conveyance from the sheriff, without the
_
permission of the court. 9 Paige, 373.
This subject is discussed at large in a late case before Lord
Truro, reported in 3 Gordon & Macnaghten R. 104, from which
we extract.
"I am of opinion, that it is not competent for any one to interfere with the possession of a receiver, or to disobey an injunction or any other -order of the court, on the ground that such
orders were improvidently made. Parties must take a proper
coursd to question their validity; but while they exist they must
be obeyed. I consider the rule to be of such importance to the
interests and safety of the public, and to the due administration
of justice, that it ought on all occasions tb be inflexibly maintained. I do not see how the court can expect its officers to do
their duty, if they do it under the peril of resistance, and of that
resistance being justified on grounds tending to'the impeachment of the order.under *vhich they are acing. In the present
case, it would have been perfectly open to the plaintiffs in the
execution to have applied to this court, to be heard pro interesse
suo, or to have been heard on a summary application for leave
to levy under their execution, notwithstanding the posssesion of
the receiver. There is no instance in which justice may not be
readily obtained by 'persons vwho pre supposed to have their

DEOEMBER

TERM,

1852.

Wiswall v. Sampson.

rights interfered with by an order or process issued by this court.
Thus, I find, in one case, where a party wished to distrain for
rent on property in the possession of a receiver, that the court,
being satisfied that the legal right of distress was paramount to,
the title of the party for whose benefit the receiver was appointed, allowed the distress to be made. In another case,
where property liable to distress had been sold, and the receiver
had received the proceeds and paid them into court, the landlord having claimed a right to distrain while the receiver was in
possession, this court ordered the receiver to pay out of.those
proceeds, to the landlord, the rents that were due to him2 the
receiver being in possession for the benefit of the tenant for life,
who was liable for the payment of that rent which was -so
sought to be distrained for on the property in the possession of
the receiver. I apprehend, then, it may be taken as a rule that,
though this court may havo issued a process, or have made an
order which may interfere with the supposed rights and interests
of other parties, not parties to the cause, it is always competent
for such parties to make an application to the court for relief;
and it is not to be presumed or doubted, but that justice will be
duly administered to them on that application."
MIr. Justice NELSON delivered'the opinion of the coult.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Alabama.
The suit in the court below was an action of ejectment against
Wiswall to recover the possession of a lot of land situated in the
city of Mobile.
The lessors of the plaintiff gave in evidence two judgments
against John Tieknor-one in favor of Fowler & Co. for $4,491,
rendered 28th December, 1840-the other in favor of Crouch &
Sneed for $7,167.25, rendered 31st December of the same year,
each of them in the Circuit Court of the United States. Executions were issued upon each of the judgments within the
year, and returned by the marshal "no property found."
An aliasf. fa. was issued on the judgment in favor of Crouch
& Sneed on the 24th February, 1845, and the lot in question
levied on; an alias fi.'fia. was also issued on the judgment in
'favor of Fowler & CO. on the 7th April, -1845, and a levy made
on the same; and on the 7th July the lot was sold on both executions, and bid off by Dargan, one of the lessors of the plaintifl; for the sum of $7,500, and a deed executed to him by the
marshal on the 13th August of the same year. Dargan quitclaimed the premises to Hall, the other lessor. The lessors of
the plaintiff claim title under this sale.
VOL. XIV.

6

62

SUPREME COURT
Wiswall v. Sampson.

The defendant, Wiswall, gave in evidence a judgment in his
favor against Ticknor in the Circuit Court of the State for
$2,233.17; rendered 14th June, 1842; an execution issued 1st July
of the same year, which was returned by the sheriff" no property
found;" also a deed of the lot in question from Ticknor to one
Jatnes L. Day, bearing date 28 April, 1840; and the exemplifi.cation of a decree and the proceedings in chancery on a bi"
filed 7th February, 1843, by Wiswall against Ticknor and Day,
setting aside the deed to Day as fraudulent and void against
creditors. The decree was rendered April term, 1846. Also
the appointment of a receiver by the court, to whom possession
of the property was delivered on the 27th June of the same year.
The receiver remained in the possession till the lot was sold by
the master, 1st March, 1847,'under the decree in chancery, and
was purchased in for the defendant Wisivall for the sum of
$6,500.
The defendant claims under this title.
Notice was given, on the day of sale, by the marshal, under the
two judgments, of the pendency of this suit in chancery, and of
the appointment of a receiver, and !hat he was in the possession
of the property.
It appeared, also, that the lot was bid off by Dargan at the
marshal's sale, by an arrangement betweer_ the attorneys representing the two judgments, Dargan 'being the attorney for the
one in favor of Crouch & Sneed, that if the title thus acquired
should enable him to recover the property, the judgment in favor
of Fowler & Co. should be paid out of it; but, if he should
fail to recover it, then the sale was to be considered a nullity,
and no money was to be paid.
It further appeared, that an application had been made by the
attorney in the judgment in favor of Fowler & Co. to the court
to amend the marshal's return so !,.3 to set forth the fact that no
money had been paid, and that the motion was then pending in
court' And further, that a bill had been filed in chaficery by
the assignee n 6anlkrptey of the judgment of Fowler & Co.
against the defendant and others, to have the proceeds of the
sale of the property on the decree applied to the payment of
that judgment, and in which bill it is insisted that the sale under
the two judgments was inoperative, on acccunt of the agreement
between the attorneys under whom it was made, and that this
suit was then pending.
It further appeared, that Dargan applied to the Court of Chancery on the 26th November, 1845, by petition, setting out his title
under the two judgments to have the possession of the lot by
the receiver delivered up to him, or if that should not be ordered,
then that he might be at liberty to bring art action of eiectment
against the reieiver to recover the same.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

63

Wiswall v. Sampson.

That the defendant Wiswall put in his answer, setting-up the
same matters now relied on to invalidate the sale to Dargan,
and also claiming a paramount lien upon the property by virtue
of his judgment, and bill in chancery and decree setting aside
the fraudulent conveyance to Day, directing a sale and applicatioh of the proceeds to the payment of his judgment, the appointment of a reeeiver, &c.
That the chancellor overruled the application, and dismissed
the petition on the 10th December, 1845. From which order an
appeal was taken to the Supreme Court, and the decree or order
affirmed.
After the evidence was closed, the court charged the jury, that
the title of Dargan under the marshal's sale upon the two judgments was superior to that of the defendant under the sale upon
the decree in chancery, and directed a verdict for the plaintiff.
And farther, that the decree in chancery on the petition of Dargan was not conclusive upon the rights of the parties -that. he
was not bound to go into that court for relief, as his remedy was
at law.
The case is now before us on exceptions to this charge.
It was made a question, on the argument, whether or -not the
lien of the judgment§, under which the marshal's sale took place,
had not been postponed to that of Wiswall, on account of laches
in the enforcement of them by execution. But in the view we
have taken of the case, the validity pf the liens, atfthe iime of
sale, will be coriceded, without, however, intending to express
Iny opinion upon the question.
WViswall filed his bill in chancery against Ticknor and Day
to set aside the fraudulent conveyance to,the latter, and have the
property applied to the satisfaction of his judgment, on the 7th
February, 1843. In that bill he prayed for a sale of the xea
estate, and for the appointment of a receiver to *take charge of
it with other P-sets of the judgment debtor; and, also, for an
injunction. A. temporary injunction -was granted. On the
coring in of the answers of the defendants, the complainant, on
the 11th April of the same year, moved for the appointment of a
receiver, and the defendants, at the same time, moved to dissolve
the injunction. The court denied the motion to appoint the
receiver, and dissolved the injunction, expressing the opinion
that the answers so far explained the circumstances undqr which
the deed to Day was given, as to remove the charge of fraud
against it. An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court, and,
on the 10th April, 1844, that colrt reversed the order of the court
below, and remanded the cause for further proceedings: and on
the 15th April, 1845, the Chancellor made a decree, that the deed
was fraudulent and void, as against the complainant, and re-

SUPREME COURT.
Wiswall v.

Sampson.

ferred the case to a master, to take. and state the account between the parties. He further ordered and decreed that a
receiver should be appointed to fake possession of all the property embraced in the fraudulent conveyance, and, particularly,
that -possession should be delivered to him of the premises in
question; and further, that the receiver, raider the direction of
the master, should sell the same and-apply the proceeds to the
payment of the complainant's judgment, with costs, &c.
The receiver was appointed on the 27th June, 1845, and on
the same day Ticknor, who was in possession of the premises,
attorned to him, who held possession until The sale was made in
pursuance of the decree. It will be recollected that the execution on the judgment in favor of Crouch S Sneed, was issued,
and levied on the 24th February, 1845; and on that in favor of
Fowler &.Co. 7th April of the -ame yea:, and that the sale
took place under which the lessors of the plaintiff claim, 7th
July, 1845.
At the time, therefore, of this sale, the receiver was in the
possession of the premises, under the decree of the Court of
Chancery -in other words, the possession and custody of them
were in the Court of Chancery itself, (as the court is deemed the
landlord,) to abide the final decree to be thereaft.,r rendered.in
the suit pending.
The, appointment of a receiver is a matter resting in the discretion of the court; and, as a general rule, in making the
appointment on behalf of a complainant seeking to enforce an
equitable claim, or a claim which is the subject of equitable
jurisdiction, against real estate, it will take -are not to interfere
with the rights of a person holding a prior legal interest'in the
property. Thus, where there is a prior mortgagee having the
legal estate, the court will not, by the appointment of a receiver,
deprive him of his right to the possession; but, at the same
time, it will not permit him to object to the appointment by any
act short of a personal assertion of his legal rights, and the
taking of possession himself. 1 J. & W. 648; 2 Swanst.
108, 137;' 3 Id., 112, n. 115; 3 Daniel's Pr. 1950, 1951.
If the person holding the legal interest. is not in possession,
the equitable claimant against the property is entitled to the interference of the court, not only for the purpose of preserving it
from waste, but for the purpose of obtaining the rents and
profits accruing, as a fund in court to abide the result of- the
litigation. For until the person holding the legal interest takes
possession, or asserts his right to the possession, the accruing
rents-and profits present-a question simply "etween the parties
to'the litigation. And the court will also -appoint a receiver,
even against a party having possession under a legal title, if it

DECEMBER TERM,
Wiswall

1852.

65

v. Sampson.

is satisfied such party has wrongfully obtained that interest in
the property. Thus, where fraud can be proved, and immediate
danger is likely to result, if possession, pending the litigation,
should not be taken by the court in the mean time. 13 Ves. 105;
16 Id. 59; 3 Daniel's Pr. 1955.
The effect of the appointment is not to oust any party of his
right to the possession of the property, but merely to retain it
for the benefit of the party who may ultimately appear to be
entitled to it; and when the party entitled to the estate has been
ascertained, the receiver will be considered his receiver, (T. & R.
345 ; Daniel's Pr. 1982); and the master will usually be directed
to inquire what encumbrances there are affecting the estate, and
ihto the priorities respectively. 10 J. R. 521, Codwise v. Gelston.
When a receiver has been appointed, his possession is that of
the court, and any attempt td disturb it, without the leave of
the court first obtained, will be a contempt on the part of the
person making it. This was held in Angel v. Smith, 9 Ves.
:335, both with respect to receivers ahd sequestrators. When,
therefore, a party is -prejudiced by having a receiver put in his
way, the course has either been to give him leave to bring an
ejeetment, or to permit him to be examined pro interesse suo.
1 3. & W. 176, Brooks v. Greathed; 3 Daniel's Pr. 1984.
And the doctrine that a receiver is not to be disturbed, extends
even to cases in which he has been appdinted expressly, without
prejudice to the rights of persons having prior legal or equitable
interests. And the individuals having such prior interests must,
if they desire to avail themselves of them, aply to the court
either for liberty to bring ejectment, or to be examined pro
intersse suo; and this, though their right to the possession is
clear.
Cox, 422; 6 Ves. 287.
The proper course to be pursued, says Mr. Daniel, in his valuable treatise on Pleading and Practice in Chancery, by any
person who claims title to an estate or other property sequestered, whether by.mortgage or judgment, lease or otherwise, or
who has a title paramount to the sequestration, is to apply to
the court to direct the plaintiff to exhibit interrogatories before
one of the masters, in order that the party applying may be
examined as to his title to the estate. An examination of this
:sort is called an examination pro interesse suo, and an order for
such examination may be obtained by a party interested, as'
well Where the property consists of goods and chattels, or personalty, as Where it is -real estate.
And the mode of proceeding is the same Ln the case of the
receiver. 6 Yes. 287; 9 Id. 336; 1 J, & W. 178; 3 Daniel's
Pr. 1984.

66

SUPREMF

COURT.

.Wiswall v. Sampson.

A party, therefore, holding a judgment which is a prior lien
upofi the property, the same as a mortgagee, if desirous of
enforcing it against the estate after it has been taken into the
care and custody of the court, to abide the final determination
of the litigation, and pending that litigation, must first obtain
leave of the court for this purpose. The court will direct a
master to inquire into the circumstances, whether it is an existing unsatisfied demand, or as to the priority of the lien, &c., and
take care that the fund be applied accordingly.
Chancellor Kent, in delivering the opinion of'the court in
a fund
Codwise. v. Gelston, as Chief Justice, observed, "that if.
for the payment of Oebts be created under an order or decree in
chancery, and the creditors come in to avail themselves of it,
the rule of equity then is, that they shall be Paid in par! passu,
-or upon a footing of equality. But when The law giv- a priority, equity will not destroy it, and especially -Where legal
assets are created by statute, as in case of a judgment lien.
they remain so, though the creditors be obligad to go into equity
for assistance. The legal priority will be protected and preserved in chancery."
The settled rule, also, appears to be, that where the subjectmatter of the suit in equity is real estate, and which is taken
into the pos.session of the court pending the litigation, by the
appointment of a receiver, or by sequestration, the title is bound
from the filing of the bill; -and any purchaser, pendente lIte,
even if for a valuable consideration, conies in at his perl. 3
Swanst. 278, n., 298, n.; 2 Daniel's Pr. 1267; 6 Yes. 287; gYId.
836; 1 J.& W. 178; 3 Daniel's Pr. 1984.
It has been argued, that a sale of the prvomises on execution
axud purchase, occasioned no interference with tne possession of
the receiver, and hence no contempt of the authority of the
court, and that the sale therefore, in such a case, should be
upheld. But, conceding the- proceedings did not disturb the
possession of the receiver, the argument does not reet. the
objection. The property is a fund in court, to abide the event
of the litigation, arid to be applied to the payment of the judgment creditor, who has filed his bill to remove impediments in
the way of his executi6n. If he has succeeded in establishing
his right to the applicati6n -of any portion of the fund, it 'is the
duty of the court to see that such application is made. And,
in order to effect this, the court must adminis;er it independently
of any rights acquired by third persons, pending the litigation.
Otherwise, the whole fund may have passed out of its hands
before the final decree, and the litigation bec me fruitless.
It is true, in administering the fund, the cDurt will take care
thatthe rights of prior liens or encumbrances shall not be de-

DECEMBER TERMkX, 1852.

67

Wiswall v. Sampson.

stroyed; and will adopt the proper measuresoby reference to the
master or otherwise, to asceiftain them, aird bring them before
it. Unless the court be permitted to retain the possession of
fhe fund, thus to administer it, how can it ascertain the interest
in the same to which the prosecuting judgment creditor is entitled, and apply it upon his demand?
There can be no difficulty in ascertaining the prior liens and
encumbrances, as all of them are matters of record. Several
of the judgment creditors came in, in this case, and receivea
their share in the distribution.
These two judgment creditors had notice of the suit before
the sale, and might have made themselves -parties to it, and
claimed application of the fund according to the priority of their
liens.
They were also before the court, pending the litigation, on
the petition of Dargan, who had purchased for their benefit, to
have the possession of the receiver delivered up to the purchaser.
There is no pretence, therefore, for saying that they have not
had notice of the proceedings in .thd equity suit. The prayer
of the petition: was denied, among other grounds, because their
appropriate remedy was a motion to the court, founded on their
judgments to have the proceeds of the sale under the decree applied to them according to priority.
We agree, that the person holding the prior legal lien or encumbrance, must have notice, and ,n opportunity to cpme in
and, claim his prior right to the property or interest in the fund
before his legal right can be' affected; and the proper way is by
summons or notice upon the order or direction of the court.
This notice can be readily given on the report of trie master,
of the prior liens or encumbrances resting upon the estate.
But it is-not necessary to go this length in the case before
us, as it is iufficient to say, that the sale under the judgment
pendhig the equity suit, and while the court was in possession
of the estate .without the leave of the court, was illegal and,
void. We do noi doubt but that it would be competent for the
court, in case the judgment creditor holding the prior lien had
not come in and claimed his interest in the equity suit, to decree a sale in the final disposition of the fund subject to-his
judgment. The puichaser would then be bound to pay it off.
But this disposition of the legal prior encumbrance is a very
different matter, and comes .to a very different result, from that
of permitting the- enforcement of it, pendente lite, without the
leave of the court. The-rights of the several claimants to the
estate or fund is then settled, and the purchase under the decree
can be made with-a fll knowledge of the condition of the titlp,
or charges to which it may be subject.

68

SUPREME COURT.
Wisw411 v. Sampsoh.

Neither do we doubt but that it is cumpetent, and might, in
some cases, be fit and proper for the court, where the property
in dispilte is ample, and the litigation protracted, to permit the
execution to issue, and compel the prosecuting creditor to pay
off the judgment. 3 Beav. 428. But it is manifest that
these proceedings, on behalf of the prior encumbrancer, should
be-under the control of the discretion of the court, as the condition of the title to the property may frequently be so complicated and embarrassed, that unless the sale was withheld until
the title was cleared up by the judgment of the court, great
sacrifice must necessarily ensue to the parties interested.
This case affords an apt illustration of the remark. The marshal's sale was mad6 under an arrangement that no mJiey was
to be paid by the purchaser, unless he succeeded in obtaining a
title to the property under it. It is obvious, therefore, if the
purchase had been unconditional, and at the risk of the purchaser, it must have been bid off for a nominal consideration.
As we have already said, it is sufficient, for the disposition of
this case, to hold, that while the estate is it. the custody of the
court, as a fuind to abide the result of a suit pending, no sale of
the property can take place either or execution or otherwise,
without the leave of the court for that purpose. And upon this
ground, we hold that the sale by the marshal on the two judgments was illegal and void, and passed no title to the purchaser.
We are, also, inclined to think, that the question of title to
the property under the marshal's sale is concluded between these
parties by the judgment of the court in the proceedings on the
petition by the. purchaser for the removal of the receiver, and
to be let into the possession. This, we have seen, is the appropriate remedy on behalf of a person claiming a paramount legal
right to an estate which has been brought into the possession
and safe keeping of ihe Court of Chancery, pending the litigation in respect to it.

This proceeding was explained by Lord Eldon in Angel v.
Smith, (9 Ves. 335),.speaking of the rule in xespect to sequestrators, and which he held was equally applicable in the case of
receivers. "Where sequesirators," he observed, "are in possession
under the process of the court, their possession is not to be disturbed, even by an adverse title, without leave: upon this prin.
ciple, that the possession of the scquestrators is the possession
of the court, and the court being competent to examine the
title, will not permit itself to be made a suitor in a court of
law, but will itself examin6 the title. And the mode is, by permitting the party to come in to be examined pro interesse suo;
the practAce being, to go before the master to state his title, and
there is the judgment of the master, and afterwards, if necees-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

69

Wiswall v. Sampson.

sary, of the court upon it. See also 10 Beav. 318; 2 Daniel' Pr.
1271; 2 Mad. 21; 1 P. Wms. 308.
An appeal to the House of Lords will lie from the order or
decree of the Chancellor upon exceptions to the master's report
in the matter. 2 Daniel's Pr. 1273; 3 Id..1633, 1634.
In the petition to the Chancellor in the case before us, the
purchaser set out his title at large under the marshal's sale, and
claimed the possession of the property by virtue ofihis title
that the receiver might bee removed, and the possession delivered
to the petitioners.
The answer of 'iswall set up his right to the property under
the decree in the suit against Ticknor and Day.
The right of the petitioner, therefore, under his title to the
possession of the property as agaist the'right of Wiswall undei
the proceedings in equity and the. decree in his favor, would
seem to be a question directly involved. The court so understood the issue and passed upon it, holding, as we hold in this
case, that the sale was illegal and void, having been made while
the estate was in the possession and safe keeping of the Court
of Chancery. From this decision .an appeal war taben to the
-Supreme Court, where "he order or decree of the court below
was affirmed. 11 Ala. R. 938, Dargan v. Waring and others.
The question is one depending very much upon the local law
of Alabama, and the judgment, therefore, in the matter, by the
highest court of the State, is entitled to the highest respect.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the judgment of the
court below was erroneous and must be reversed, and the case
remitted for further pr-ceedings.
Order.
This cause cblme on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conforuity to the opinion of this court.

