DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

563

Doolittle's Lessee et al. v. Bryan et a!.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the West.
ern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

LESSEE OF IRWIN H. DOOLITTLE AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS, V .
LEVI BRYAN AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS..
A sale of land by a marshal on a venditioni exponas, after he is removed from office,
and a new marshal appointed and qualified, is not void.
Such sale beiig returned to the court and confirmed by it, on motion, and a deed
ordered to be made to" the purchaser at the sale, by the new marshal, such sale being made, is valid.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, on a certificate of division in
opinion between the Judges thereof.
The following was the entire record in the caser:
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

District of Ohio, ss.
At a Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of
Ohio, began and held at the city of Columbus, in'said district
on the third Tuesday in the month of October, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, and of the
independence of the United States of America the 76th, before
the Honorable John McLean and the Honorable Humphrey H.
Leavitt, Judges of said court; among other proceedings had,
were the following, to wit:
The lessee of IRWIN B. DOOLITTLE et al.)
V.
>In ejectment.
LEvI BRYAN et al.

)

In this case, the lessors of the plaintiff, being citizens of Illinois, brought their action of ejectment to recover possession of
one thousand acres of land in the State of Ohio; the declaration being duly served on the tenants in possession, they appeared and entered into the consent rule, and filed the general
issue. On the trial, two points arose, on which the opinions of
the Judges-were oppoaed, to wit:

564

SUPREME COURT.
Doolittle's Lessee

et al. v. Bryan et al.

1. Whether a sale of land by a marshal, on a"venditioni exponas, after he is removed from office, and a new marshal appointed and qualified, is void?
2. Whether such sale, being returned to the court, and confirmed by it on motion, and a deed ordered to be made to the
purchaser, at the sale, by the new marshal, such sale being made,
is valid?
And the counsel for the lessors of the plaintiff, moved the
court to certify the above points, for decision, to the Supreme
Court, under the statute.
The practice to confirm the marshal's sale, is under the fifteenth section of the State statute "regulating judgments and
executions," and is "asfollows:
" That if the court to which any writ of execution shall be
returned by the officer, for the satisfaction of which any lands
or tenements may have been sold, shall, alter having carefully
examined the proceedings of such officer, be satisfied that the
sale has, in all respects, been made in conformity to the provisions of this act, they shall direct their clerk to make an entry
thereof on the journal, that the court are satisfied with the
legality of such sale, and an order that the said officer make to
the purchaser a deed for such lands and tenements."
October 27, 1851.
From the arguments of counsel, tfie following appeared to
be the dates of the several transactions.
On the 19th of February, 1829, a venditioni exponas came to
the hands of William Dougherty, then t'ae marshal of Ohio.
The writ was returnable to the July term, 1.829.
On the 20th of April, 1829, Dougherty was removed from
office.
On the 11th of May, 1829, John Patterson was qualified as
marshal.
I On the 10th of July, 1829, Dougherty sold the land in question.
At the July term, 1829, the writ of venditioni exponas was
returned, 15y which it appeared that the land was sold to Levi
Bryan, one of the defendants. The sale was confirmed by the
court, and Patterson, the then marshal, ordered to convey the
land to Bryan, the purchaser,.
The counsel upon both sides agreed that the plaintiffs in
ejectment could not recover unless this was a void sale.
It was argued by 31r. Stanberry, for the plaintiffs, and tr.
Corwin,for the defendant.

DECEMBER TERAI, 1852.

565

Doolittle's Lessee et al. v. Bryan et al.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.

On the trial of this case in the Circuit Court, two points arose,
in which the Judges were divided in opinion, and which have
been accordingly certified to this court.
1. Whether a sale of land by a marshal, on a venditioni
exi:poitis, after he is removed from office, and a new marshal is
appointed, ii void?
2. Whether such sale, being returned to the court and confirmed by it, on motion, and a deed ordered to be made to the
purcha-. r at the sale, by the new marshal, such sale being made,
is valid?
If the first of these questions be answered in the negative,
the second will be answered affirmatively, as an undisputed
consequence.
Whether a sale, made by a marshal after he is removed from
office, on a wvrit of venditioni exponas, is void, will depend on the
construction of the third section of the act of May 7, 1800, ch.
45, and whether it is a repeal of the provisions on this subject,
contained in the tt~enty-eighth section of the Judiciary Act of
1789, chap. 20.
So much of the latter act as is material to our inquiry, is as
follows: "Every marshal or his deputy, when removed from
office, or when the term for which the marshal is appointed shall
expire, shall have power, notwithstanding, to execute all such
precepts as may be in their hands respectively at the time of
such removal or expiration of office," &c.
The third section of the act of 1800 enacts: "That whenever a marshal shall sell any lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
by virtue of process from a court of the United States, and shall
die or be removed from office, or the term of his commission
expire, before a deed shall be executed for the same by him to
the purchaser; in every such case the purchaser or plaintiff at
whose suit the sale was made, may apply to the court from
which the process issued, and set forth the case, assigning the
reason why the title was not perfected by the marshal who sold
the same; and thereupon the court may order the marshal, for the
time being, to perfect the title, and execute a deed to the purchaser, he paying the purchase-money and 6osts remaining unpaid. And where a marshal shall take in execution any lands,
&c., and shall die or be removed from office, or the term of his
commission expire before a sale or other final disposition made
of the same, in every case the like process shall issue to the
succeeding marshal, and the same proceedings shall be had, as
if such former. marshal had not died or been removed, or the
term of his commission had not expired. And the provisions
in this section contained, shall be and they are hereby extended
VOL. XIV.

48

.66

SUPREME COUR'T.
Doolittle's Lessee at al. v. Bryan et al.

-to all the cases respectively which may have happened before
the passing- of this act."
There is no -express repeal of the -act of 1789 to be found in
this act of 1800. Nor *does it contain any negative terms
which are necessarily contrary to the previous affirmatre. act.
'A latter act is never construed to repeal a prior act unless there
be 4 contrariety or repugnancy in them, or at least some notice
taken of thb former act so as to indicate an intention to repeal
it. The law does not favor a repeal by iraplication unless the
xepugnance-be quite plain. hence it has been decided that,
although two acts of parliament be seemingly repugnant, yet if
there .be no clause of 2toa obstante in the latter they shall, if
possible, have such construction that the latter may not be a
repeal'of the formei by implication; Dwarris on Stat. 674, and
cases cited.
The purview of the clause of the act of 1789, now in question, is to define thd powers of a marshal having process in his
hands at the time he is removed or his office expires; it authorizes him to execute process previously di:-ected to him. The
act of 1800 is evidently intended to confer rights on the parties
to have the same acts performed by the new marshal. It gives
cumulative rights and powers, for the benefit of suitors.
That such is its purview and policy, is evident from its language - " the purchaser or the plaintiff," it is said, "may apply,
and the court may order the new marshal for the time being;" and
,although "'inay" is changed into "shall," in the latter clause of
the section it is not necessarily inconsistentb with, nor repugnant
to the power conferred on the marshal to execute precepts in
his hands, by the act of 1787. The latter act does not set
aside or make void Iprocess or precepts in the hands of the outgoingmarshal, orequire him to hand them over to the hew
officer. It authorizes "like process" to issue to him; and the
word " shall" is used because it is the most proper in conferring
a power on the officer, and is not incompatible with the choice
given to the, plaintiff in the first clause of the section. The
laws of th.e several States affecting liens on land, and the process
_by
which they mby be 4old for the satis action of judgments,
differvery widely. In some, by attachment i lien is created at the
institution of the suit. In others, the judgment becomes a lien
at the time of its rendition; while in others, the execution and
levy first give a lien. In some, lands are sold on af.fa., while
'in others it can be sold only on a vinditfoni expondas. Under the
act of 1789, a doubt might have been entertained, whether land
attached should be sold by the officer who had originally attkcxed it, and whether,'if process issued to a new officer, it
might not be a relinquishment of the lien of the original attach-

DECEM-BER TERM, 1852.

567'

Doo.little's Lessee et al. v. Bryan -et al.

ment, as by fiction of law the land, like personal property attached, might be considered in the custody of the officer who
attached it. Again, an officer, going out of office, may have an
execution in his hands which has created a lien; if the act were
construed so as imperatively to require a new or "like process"
to issue to the neW officer, the lien, and with it the debt, might
be lost. In other cases, on the contrary, a marshal may be, and
often is, removed from office, because money, which once gets
into his hands, cannot be got out again, and a plaintiff may
much prefer to relinquish his execution and take a new one.
Doubts, also, may have arisen whether a venditioni exjxonas
could legally issue to the new marshal, where the former one
had levied on the land and had it condemned. All these diffi.
culties are obviated by the act of 1800, not by repealing the'
general powers given by the act of 1789, but by conferring certain powers on the new officer, where it is found expedient or
necessary that fie should exercise them.
IIt is an argument entitled to great weight in the construction
of these statutes, -that different constructions have been given
them in different States, and the practice under them has been
more or less conformed to the, State practice, without, perhaps,
a proper regard to these acts. In some, the act of 1800 has
been overlooked altogether. A sharp or stringent construbtion,
which should now declare the latter to be a repeal of the powers
conferred by the former, might have the effect of unsettling titles
to land to an extent the court may not be able to anticipate.
In the present case, it is said, the land was sold in 1829. Tie
purchaser paid his money and obtained his deed upon the faith
of a judgment of the court that the sale was regular, and has held
the land under this title ever since. Hundreds of similar cases
may probably be found, where the same objections to the sale
exist. Under such circumstances a court should be even astute
in avoiding a.construction which may be productive of~mugh
litigation and insecurity of titles.
We therefore answer the first question proposed, in the negative; which involves, as a necessary consequence, an affirmative
answer to the second, so far as it affectsthe case before us.'
But we do not mean to say that the confirmatibn of a void sale
by the court, would make it valid.
-Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of-the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Ohio, and on the points or questions on which the
Judges o the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion 'and

508

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie et al. v. Moor.

which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act,'9 f Congress in such case made ard provided, and wias
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court,-.
1. "That a sale of land by a marshal, on a venditioni exponas,
after he is reirioved from office, and a new marshal appointed
.and qualified," is not void.
2. Thac such sale being returned to the court, and confirmed by it on motion, and a deed ordered to be made to the
purchaser, at the sale, by the new marshal, such sale being made,
is valid."
"Whereupon it is now here ordered- and 'adjudged, by this
court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

S.MUEL VEAZIEr.AND LEVI YOUNG, PLAINTIFFS IN ERIZOR, V.
WYMAN B. S. MooR.
The River P'enobscot is entirelk within the State of Miaine, from its source to its
pnouth. For the last eight miles of its course it is not navigable, but crossed by
four dams e'ected for manufacturing purposes; Higher up the stream there was an
imperfect navigation.
A lemw of the State, granting the- exclusive navigation of the upper river to a company who were to improve it is not in conflict with th,'87th section of the 1st article of the Constitution of the United States. and a license to carry on the coasting
trade did not ehtitle a vessel to navigate the upper waters of the river.

Tigs case was brought up from the Sulreme Judicial Court
of the State of Maine, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
.scction of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
-It was argued by Mr. Paine, for the plaintiffs in error, and by
M.r. Kelley and Mr. Moor, for the defendant in error:
The following pwpositions were contended for, in an elaborate brief, filed by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error:
I. That the constitutional power of Congress in question,
embraces the right to adopt any means reasonably necessary,
in thVir opinion, to the successful prosecution of commerce
among the States and with foreign nations.
2. That Congress has adopted, as such means, the whole
commercial marine of the, country, every part of which, as a
unit., is under their entixe control and regulation, without regard
tothe waters on which the navigation is carried on.
. That to cpnstitute a part of this commercial marine, no
other qualifications are necessary than those prescribed by Con

