SUPREME COURT.
Stephens v. Cady.

certainly the plaintiff is not injured by having the judgment
rendered against him for a smaller sum intead of a larger. If
either party had a right to complain of the opinion of the court
under which the renittiturwas entered, it was the defendants,
and not the plaintiff. For, if a party uses the process of the
law wilfully and oppressively, his conduct may be considered by
the jury in estimating the damages susteined by the injured
party. And proof of the conduct of the agents of the plaintiff
in this respect, and also of the damage sustained by the defendants by the loss of a favorable market, were properly submitted
to the consideration of the jury.
The receipt of Hutchinson, upon which fie plaintiff relied, did
not prove, or tend to prove, that the wheat -caken on the replevin
was the wheat therein mentioned - or that any wheat belonging to Hutchinson, or to Hubbard, Faulkner & Co., ever came
to the hands of the defendants. It showed that Hutchinson
held so much wheat for Hubbard, Faulkner & Co. But the defendants are not answerable for his contracts, or his warehouse
receipts, unless it is shown that the property came into their
possession. And the're is not the slightest evidence to show that
any wbeat, belonging either to Hutchinson cr to Hubbard, Faulkner & Co., was ever in the warehouse after it was transferted to
the defendants.
The judgment of the District Court is alrmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Wisconsin, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said District Court, in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and interest until
the same is paid, at the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of Wisconsin.

JAIES STEPHENS, APPELLANT, V. ISAAC

H.

CGAY.

'Where the copy-right of a map was taken out under th3 act of Congress, and the
copperplate engraving seized and sold under an execution, the purchaser did not
acquie the right to st 4ke off and sell copies of the ma-r.
The court below decided that an injunction to prevent such striking off and selling,
could not issue, without a return of the purchase-mogey. This decision was
erroneous.
A copy-right is a "property in notion, and has no corporeal tangible substance," and

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

529

Stephens v. Cady.
is not the subject of seizure and sale by execution. It canbe reached by a creditor's bill in chancery, but in such case, the court would probably have to decree a
transfer in the mode pointed out in the act of Congress.

Tais was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Rhode Island, sitting as a Court of
Equity.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed argument by the appellant, -in
proper person. No counsel appeared for the appellee.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Rhode Island.
The bill was filed by the appellant in the court below, to restrain the defendant from printing and publishing a map of the
State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, in violation
of the conplainant's copy-right.
The facts are briefly these: The complainant, on the 23d of
April, 1831, took out the copy-right of a map, the title of which
is as follows: "A Topographical Map of the State of Rhode
Island and Providence Plantations, surveyed trigonometrically
and indetail, by James Stephens, topographer and civil engi.neer, Newport, R. I., 1831, the right whereof he claims as author, in conformity with the act of Congress, entitled an act to
amend the several acts respecting copy -rights," and since then
has been engaged in printing, publishing, and vending the said
maps, by virtue of the copy-right thus obtained. In March,
1846, a judgment was recovered against him, in the Common
Pleas of Bristol county, Massachusetts, for $194.23, upon which
an execution was issued, and the copperplate engraving of the
map in question seized, and sold, and bid off by the defendant
for the sum of $245, he being the highest bidder. Having thus
become entitled to the property in the engraving, he claimed the
right to print and publish the maps, and in pursuance of this
supposed right, he has been engaged in printing, publishing and
vending the same.
On the hearing upon the bill, answer, and proofs, the court
below differed in opinion, as to the effect of the sale of the copperplate engraving of the map; but agreed that no injunction
could issue without a repayment of the purchase-money, which
was refused by the complainant; whereupon the court dismissed
the bill with costs.
The single quesdon in the case is, whether or not the property
acquired by the defendant in the copperplate, at the sheriff's
salef carried with it,as an incident, the right to print and publish
the map engraved upon its face.
VOL. XIV.

45

SUPREME COURT.
6tephens v. Cady.

Upon this question the court below divided in opinion, but
finally agreed in dismissing the bill.
The appellee has not followed the case into this court, and
we have not, therefore, been favored with the grounds and reasons relied on for sustaining the decree; nor have we been furnished with the reasons of the court for tle same. The ground
upon which the decision was ultimately placed, namely, the
refusal of the complainant -to refund the purchase-money, is
certainly not satisfactory; for if the copy-right of the map, or
any right to print or publish the same, passed with the purchase
of the plate, as incidental, as there is nothing in the facts of the
case to invalidate the sale, the title became complete in the
purchaser, and could not be rightfully ini-erfered with. But if
otherwise, then there was no ground for imposing the repayment
of the purchase-money, as a condition to the relief prayed for;
the injunction should have been awarded, and the defendant
directed to account.
But from the consideration we have given to the case, we are
satisfied that the property acquired by the sale in the engraved
plate, and the copy-right of the map secured to the author under the aot of Congress, are altogether different and independent
of each other, and have no necessary conection. The copyright is, an exclusive right to the multipliction of the copies, for
the benefit of the author or his assigns, disconnected from the
plate, or any other physical existence. It is an incorporeal right
to print and publish the map, or, as said by Lord Mansfield in
Millar v. Taylor (4 Burr. 2396,) "a property in notion, and. has
no corporeal tangible substance."
The engraved plate and the press are the mechanical instruments, pr means by which the copies are multiplied, as the
types and press are the instruments by -wvhich the copies of a
book are produced. Lnd to say that the right to print and publish the copies, adheres to and passes with the means by which
they are produced, would be saying, in effect, that the exclusive
right to make any given work of art necessarily belonged to the
person who happened to become the owner of the tools with
which it was made; and that if the defendant in this case had
purchased the stereotyped plates of a book, instead of the engraved plate, he would have been entitled to the copy-right of
the work, or t least, to the right to print, publish, and vend it;
and yet, we suppose that the statement of any such pretension
is so extravagant as to require no argument to refute it. Even
the transfer of the manuscript of a book will'not, at common
law, carry with it a right to print and publish the work, without
the express consent of the author, as the property in the manuscript, and the right to multiply the copies, are two separate and

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

531

Stephens v. Cad

distinct interests. 4 Burr. 2330,2396; 2"Eden, R. 329; 2 Atkyns,
R.342 ; 2 Story, R. 100.
Lord Mansfield observed, in Millar v. Taylor, that " no disposition, no transfer of paper upon which the composition is written, marked, or impressed, (though it gives the power to print
and publish,) can be construed a conveyance of the copy, (by
which he means copy-right, as appears from a previous part of
his opinion,) without the auithor'g express consent f to print and
publish,' much less against his will."
Now, it seems to us, that the transfer of the manuscript of a
book by the author would, of itself, furnish a much stronger
argument for the inference of a conveyance of the right to multiply copies, than exists in the case of a transfer of the plate in

question, or of the stereotype plates, as the ideas ad sentiments, or in other words, the composition and substance of the
work, is thereby transferred. But the property in the copy-right
is regarded as a different and, distinct right, wholly detached
from the manuscript, or any other physical' existence, and will
not pass with the manuscript unless included by express woras
in the transfer.
The copperplate engraving, kle any other tangible personal
property, is the subject of seiztre and sale, on execution, and
the title passes to the purchaser, the same as if made at a private sale. But the incorporeal right, secured by the statute to
the aithor, to multiply copies of the map, by the use of the
plate, being intangible, and resting altogether in grant, is not
the subject of seizure or sale by means of this process-certainly not at common law. No doubt the property may be
reached by a creditor's bill, and be applied to the payment of
the debts of the author, the same as stock of the debtor is
reached and applied, tfe court compelling a transfer and sale
of the stock for the benefit of the creditors. 20 J. R. 554; 5
. Ch.280; S. C. 4 Id. 687; 1 Paige, 637. But in case of such
remedy, we suppose, it would be necessary for the court to
compel a transfer to the purchaser, in conformity with the requirements of the copy-right act, in order to invest him with a
complete title to the property. The first section of. that act
provides, that the author of any map, chart, &c., his executors,
administrators, or legal assigns, shall have the sole right of
printing, publishing, and vending, the same, during the period
for which the copy-right has been secured. And the seventh
section forbids any person from printing, publishing, or selling
the map or chart, -under heavy penalties, without the consent of
the proprietor of the copy-right, first obtained in writing, signedin the presence of two credible witnesses. Act pf Congress,
Feb. 3, 1831.

SUPREME COURT.
Stainback et-al. v. Rae et al.

An assignment, therefore, that would vest the assignee with
the property of the copy-right, according -o the act of Congress,
must be in writing, and signed in the presence of two witnesses,
and it may, I think, well be doubted whether a transfer even by
a sale, under a decree of a court of chancery, would pass the
title so as to protect the purchaser, unless by a conveyance, in
conformity with this 'equirement. 6 B. & Cr. 169; 1 Car. &
P. 658; R. & Al. 187; D. & K. 215.
It is unnecessary, however, to express an opinion upon the
point. It is sufficient, for the purposes of this case, to say, that
the right in question is wholly independernt of, and disconnected
from, the engraved plate; and, that there is no foundation for
the defence set up, that it passed as appurtenant to the sale and
transfer of the property, in the engraved plate, from which the
copies of the map were struck off.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the decree below,
must be reversed with costs, and the proceedings remitted, with
directions - that a decred be entered fOr the complainant, in

conformity with this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on io be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On cohsideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs,
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with directions to enter a decree therein,
in conformity to the opinion of this court.

L.

1
'STAINBACK ET AL., CLAIMANTS OF THE SHIP WASHINGTON, HER TACKLE, &C., APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAM A. RAE,
IN HIS OWN RIGHT, AND AS ADMINISTRATOR OF JOSEPH PORTER WHEELER, DECEASED, AND EDMUND CROSBY, MASTER,
OWNERS OF THE SHIP MARY FRANCES. AND FREDERICK TuDOE, OWNERS OF THE CARGO OF' SAID SHIP, APPELLEES.

Vhere a collision takes place between two vessels at sea, which is the result of inevitable accident, without the negligence or fault of eilher party, each vessel must
bear its own loss.

Mr. Justice Curtis did not sit in this cause, having been of
counsel in the court below.

