DECEMBER

TERM,

1852.

377

Cunningham v. .Ashly el al.

MATTHEW CUNNINGHAM, PLAINTIFF IW fRROR, 12. )M1ARY W. W.
ASHLEY, EXECUTRIX AND SOLE LEGATEE .OF CHESTER ASHFRANCES 'A.
AND WILLIAM E-E.ASHLEY,
LjY, DECEASED,

ASHLEY, (Now FRANCES A. FREEMAN,) AND HENRY W.
ASHLEY, BY MlARY W W. ASIiLEY, HIS- GUArMIAN, HEIRS
AT LAW OF SAID CHESTER ASHLEY, DECEASED, AND
BEEBE.

ROSWELL

On the 25th of December, 1824, Cunningham applied to the land-office at Batesville,
in Arkansas, to become the purchaser of a quarter section of land under a Cherokee
certificate which had become veted in him.
This application was refused, upon the ground that two New Madrid certificates had
been laid upon the land in 1820. The right under these certifica s was claimed by
Ashley.
In 1830 Cunniugham said that Brumbach had an improvement on the same 4narter
section, which Brambach assigned to Ashley. The law sanctioned the division of
a quarter section, under such circumstances.
In 1831, Cunningham claimed a preemption right under the act of 29th Mfay, 1830.
The chtims under this act,and under the Cherokee float were were not inconsistent
with each other.
In 1 88. two float3 were entered .npon the same quarter section, viz.: one by Fluminer, for the east half of it, under the act of 1830, and the supplemental act of
1832; the other for the west half by Jenbeau, under the act of 1834, and the circular
of the General Land-Office of 1857. Patents were issued, and the title becAme
vested in Ashley.
The title of Cunningham is better than that- derived from these fiots. The title.
under the New Madrid certifioates is not decided in this case. or affected in any way
bv the decision. Cunningham is therefore entitled to the halfof the quarter section which he claimed separately from Brumbach.
The patents obtained by Ashley ard Beebe, being founded upon entries which were
void, are void also, so far as they interfere with the nremntive right of Cumingham.

THIs case .was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Arkansas, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case were numerous and complicated, and a

statement of the principal ones is given in the opinion of thb
court. It would not throw light upon any general principle if
the reporter were to give a more particular account of the long
series of acts which the respective parties considered to be the
founidation of 1heir respective titles. Nor would it be possible
to oxplain the arguments of counsel, commenting on contradictory testimony, without a previous and detailed history of the
transactions of twenty years. One of the briefs filed in the
cause was upwards of seventy printed pages. The opinion of
the court has given a selection of the leading facts in the case,
so that its merits upon both sid~s can be clearly understood.
It was argued by 316r. Lawrence and 11r. Pike, for the plaintiff
in error, and by 31r. Bradley and Mr. ohnson, for tie defendant
in error.

378

SUPREME COURT.
Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A writ of error to the Supreme Court of Arkansas, brings
this case in Chancery before us, under the -twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
On the 25th of December, 1824, Matthew Cunningham, by
his aftorney, applied to the Register of the Land-Office at Batesville, in Arkansas, to become the purchaser of the south-east
quarter of section three, in township one, north, and in range
twelve, west of the fifth principal meridian, south of the Arkansas River; by virtue of a certificate (No. 23) granted by the
Register of the said land district, to William Wylee, assignee of
William Morrison, under the act of 26th May, 1824.
That act provided that every person, entitled to the right of
preemption by law, in the tract of country north of the Arkansas River, which was ceded to the Cherokees, should be authorized, in lieu thereof, to enter with the above Register, any
tract, in the Lawrenceville district, on which he may h.Lve
made improvements, previously to the passage of the act; or,
on any unimproved tract, within the district, the sale of which is
authorized by law
By several mesne assignments, the right of the Cherokee certificate was vested in Cunpingban, and the land he proposed to
enter, was, by law, authorizel.to be sold. The agent of the
complainant informed the Register. and Receiver, that he had the
money," and was desirous of paying for the land; but, after consultao'n between the officers, he was infornied the. entry would
not.be permitted. The ground of this rejection was not stated,
at the time, nor entered upon the records of either office. There
can be.no doubt, from the facts in the case, which appear in the
,correspondence of the General Land-Office, and otherwise, that
the application to make the entry was rejected, on the ground
that the land Was covered by New Madrid. locations. And it
appears that two New Madrid certificates had been laid on the
quarter section; one on the 19th of April, :1820, and the other
on the 1st of May,:of the same year.
On the 27th of' May, 1831, the complaifiant claimed the right
of preemption to the same quarter seption, -under the act of the
29th"of May, 1830. Being duly sworn, he stated, "that, in the
year 1829, he had in. cultivation about four acres, in corn and
vegetables, on 'the land, and had been in possession of it near
ten years; was in possessiou of it the 29th of May, 1830, and
still occupied it." Several other witnesses proved the same
facts, and one of them satesathat he saw the complainant put
down on the counter' about .two hundred dollars, and informed
theIInReceiver
that it was-,oflered in payment of the land.
the reaord,
there is a Il of the preemptions allowed, at

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

879

Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

the Land-Office at Batesville, by I1 Bqswell and J. Rodman,
late Register and Receiver, from the 8th of January, 1831, tthe
30th of June, in the same year, as appears from the papers of
that office. In that list, -the name of Matthew Cunningham
standg first, as having entered the sbuth-east quarter of section
three, first township, north, twelfth range, west. It is certified
by Townsend Dickinson, Register. Oi this paper the word
"rejected" is found,. but by whom written, and for what purpose, does not appear ol t he paper. The names of H. Boswell
and J. Rodman, are under the word "rejected"; arid several of
the witnesses state, that the word "rejected," or "allowed," was
indorsed on the envelop of preemption papers, as the decision
of the land-officers was made.
In the list is the name of Nathan Cloyes, claiming the preerription right to the north-west fractional quarter of section
two, in township one, north of range twelve, the claim to 'hich
was decreed to -his heirs, in Lytle et al. v.. the State of Arkansas
et al. 9 Howard, 328.
There is, also, in the record, a certificate of Samuel W. Rutierford, Register of the Land-Office at Little Rock, where the
papers of the Batesville officers are deposited, dated the 27th
of December, 1837, which states, '.that Matthew Cunningham
was allowed, at the Land-Office at Batesville, (Lawrenceville
land district,) a preemption claim on the south-east quarter of
section three, township one,'north range twelve, west, as appears from.the papers furnished this office from the Land-Office
at Batesville, as having been allowed said Cunningham, prior
to the 30th of June, of the same year." The year referred to
was 1831, as stated in the above list of pregmption claims.
Various efforts were made by the complainant, at the LandOffice at Batesville, and at the General Land-Office, at Washington, to procure a full recognition of his preemption claim,
Appeals on the subject were niade to the Secretary of the Treasury, and to the Attorney-General, all of which resulted in the
denial of his claim, on the ground that the quarter section was
not subject to a preemptive right, by reason of the prior New
Madrid locations.
It appears, from the record, that at the Land:Office at Little
Rock, on the 6th of June, 1833, there was entered, by "Samuel
Plummer, by virtue of his preemption float, under the act of
1830, and the supplemental act of 1832, the east half of the
south-east quarter of fractional section three, south of the Arkansas River, in township one, north of range twelve, west, containing eighty acres, &c., as per certificate granted to him, No.
3549" And that, on the same day, "Mary L. Jenbeau entered,
by virtue of her preemption float, under the act of 1834, and

SUPREME COURT.
Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

circular of the General Land-Office, of the 9th bf June, 1837,
the west half of the south-east quarter of section three, in township one, north of range twelve, west,. &c.. as per certificate
granted to her, No. 3554."
In their answers, the defendants say, "tLat they caused application to be made by legal and valid floating preEmption
iights, fully authorized by law, to locate and enter said south.
east quarter of section three, the same being then vacant'public
land, and liable, bylaw, to be entered by such floating rights;
and this defendant, (Ashley,) in conjuncticn with said Beebe,
caused the same to be tntered, on the east half in the name of
Samuel Plummer, and the west half in the name of Mary L.
Jenbeau," &c. " Which said floating pre mption rights were
located, entered, and transferred, according to law and all the
lawful rules and regulations of the General Land-Office; and
were duly patented to said Beebe, by t ie President of the
United States, on the 25th of September, 1839."
On tho 26th of December, 1838, the Commissioner of the
General Lamld-Office, required the land-officers at Little Rock
to inform him, "why entries 3549 and 3554, with two others,
were permitted to be made 'on land already occupied by prior
claims long since located, anki against the validity of which this
office possesses no evidence. °' In reply, dated 30th January,
1839, the land-officers, stated, that the entries were permitted
"upon the demand of Roswell Beebe, anc. the several allegations made by. him, setting forth and showing, conclusively, that
-the Treasury Department had disallowed the preemption claims
under the act of 1814, upon all the lands south of the Arkansas
River, ceded by the Quapaw treaties of 1818, and 1824," &c.
And they say, " The original plat of survey embracing those
entries, was, at the time, complete, and represented the subdivisional lines, and. the number of acres corresponding respectively with those certificates of entry; and there was no evidence
of record on file, in either of our offices, to show that these lands
were ever.. regularly entered, or located, and due return made
thereof, according to lag, except such evidence as was exhibited
by the preemption, abstract from Batesville, under the act of
1814, and the coloring of the plat. The capitol of the State of
Arkansas is built upon a portion of these lands, at a cost of
some seventy thousand dollars, or more. The corporate authoritaes of the city of Little Rock, as well as the inhabitants, all hold
under conveyances derived from, as under the preemption claim,
aund against the New Madrid claims, either by a compromise
made by the respective claimants about t:e year 1821, or, by
the decision of the land-officers at Batesville, of which we are
not particularl; inforded. All parties, within the limits of the

DECE31BER TERM, 1852.

381

Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

city, we believe, are fully satisfied that these entries which embrace it will cure the defects in their titles, as no dissatisfaction
is believed to exist with any one interested in the question.
Those entries were therefore allowed by us upon due reflection,
under the belief that we were acting correctly in the faithful
discharge of our duties; and by which the individuals who supposed they rightfully claimed those lands, will be enabled to
obtain a perfect title, and thereby save and protect the rights
Vnd titles of the numerous persons claiming under them, and to
whom they are bound by obligation or deed."
In a letter from the Commissioner of:the General Land-Office,
dated the 24th of September, 18,59, to the Register and Receiver
at Little Rock, he says, "'1'our letter- in reference to certain
tracts of land located by floats 3549 anl 3554, under the act of
the 19th of June, 1834, has been received ;" and he remarks, "after
an attentive and careful examination of all the questions connected with the different claims preferred to the land above referred to, this office, on the 18th instant, transmitted to the
Secretary of the Treasury, agreeably to his request, all the papers
in reference to the case, with an opinion of this office in favor
of a confirmation of these floats, regarding the bond filed by
Roswell Beebe, as a sufficient compliance with the spirit of the
circular of 11th of October, 1837; and I have this day received
from him a communication concurring in thdt opinion. Patents
will, therefore, issue for certificates 3549 and 3554,and two other
numbers stated."
The circular referred to by the Commissioner, in the above letter of the 11th of October, 1837, contains the following sentences : "The President of the United- States has directed that,
until the further action of Congress thereon, the rights of preemption of eighty acres of land elsewhere, usually called floating rights, grairted by the second section of the act of Congress,
approved May 29th, 1830, which 9,t was revived and continued by the act approved June 19th, '1834, and'which, also,
as you were informed by my circular of June 9th, 1837, is for
certain purposes therein stated, still in force; shall be restricted
in their location to unimproved and vacant public land."
" You are therefore instructed not to permit the -entry,by virtue of a floating right, of any tract on which there is a cultivation, improvement, settlement, or occupant, unless the owner of
the float shall first produce to you the written consent thereto,
of the person or persons claiming thy same improvement, cultivation, settlement, or occupancy, attested by two witnesses."
The second section of the act of the 29th of May, 1830, provides, "that where two persons are settled upon the same quarter
section) each may receive a preemption for eighty acres, and a.

SUPREME COU.XT.
Cunningham v. Ashlay et al.

right to enter eighty acres elsewhere, so as not to interfere with
other settlers having a right of preference."
In his letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, "in favor of a
confirmation of the above floats," the Commissioner says, "the
claim of Matthew Cunningham, under-the act of 26th of May,
1824, has heretofore been disposed of;" and further, "that the
claims of Christian Brumbach and Matthew Cunningham, under
the preemption act of 29th May, 1830, have no validity. Tie
report of the Register and Receiver, dated 20th July, 1839, and
its accompanying papers, together with the Receiver's ltter of the
2.5th July, 1839, with the inclosure, show tha:; no action had been
had on the claim of Christian Brumbach, by the land-officers;
that no tender of the purchase-money -as made by him, and
no explanation can be given why his claim has been suffered to
sleep from 1831 to 1839; and then only revived upon the rejection of the claim of Mrs. Backus, for the same quarter section
under the act of 1838, who claims also to hold under Brumbach's claim of the act of 1830. Brumbach's own testimony
shows, also, that he was living there by the permission of one
of the proprietors of the town, and made the improvements for
their benefit under a contract, and his deed of December 22d,
1824, accompanies those papers whereby those improvements
were conveyed to- Chester Ashley, one of the proprietors." .
And.further in relation to Cunningham's claim under the act
of 1824, he says, it was rejected under the opinion of the Attorney-General; and remarks, "there is a strong point against
the validity of that claim, which circumstances did not render
it necessary heretofore to make, viz., that as the law of 26th
May, 1824, granted the privilege of entering vacant land only,
except where the preemptor or his legal representatives was
desirous of securing his own improvements made prior to the
passage of the land, &c., and he argues that Cunningham should
not be permitted to locate one hundred and sixty acres of land,
to secure improvements on a few town lots."
On the 15th of- July, 1839, it appears, by the certificate of the
Receiver at Little Rock, that the complainant again tendered
the sum of two hundred dollars, in paymenr, of the quarter section in controversy.
As the legal title to the land in controversy is in the defendants, the right of the complainant can be sustained only by
showing a paramount equity. This he has attempted to do.
But before We enter upon this investigation, it may be proper to
state, distinctly, the grounds on which the title of the respective
parties will be considered. From the issue made by the pleadings, we do not consider fhe New Madrid lozations, or any right
under them, as involved in the case. They were necessarily set

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

383

Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

aside, if not abandoned, by the defendants, when -they located
their floating rights on the land: in controversy, on which patents
were obtained. The right of tj complainant has, from its
origin, been hostile to the New Mradrid claims.
The equity of the complainant must rest upon his occupancy
and improvement' of the land, whether he claims under the Cherokee warrant, or a preemption under the act of 1830. .The defendant's legal title will be considered as founded, exclusively
on the locations made by the floating rights, on which the patents were obtained.
The two claims, set up by the complainant in his bill, require
different facts, in the order of time, to sustain them; but they
are in no respect inconsistent with each other. The Cherokee
float could be located only on unoccupied land, or on land improved by the holder of the warrant.
As the land-officers at Batesville would not permit the complainant to make an entry under either claim, it is. therefore
importanit to ascertain on what ground they decided; and also
as to the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the right as
claimed. There can be no question that the decision of these
officers was founded dn the prior New Madrid locations. • These
were made before the complainant took possession of the land.
This, under the circumstances, being an insuperable objection
to the entry; no court can presume that their decision was made
on any other ground, unless such ground was stated, or the
evidence was defective.
The voluminous correspondence of the General Land-Office
shows, that the larld-officers considered .the above New Madrid
locations as an appropriation of the land. Was the evidence
adduced by complainant sufficient to establish his right?
The authority to Samuel C. Roane to make the entry, as the
agent of Cunningham, under the act of 1824, was undoubted.
The application to make the entry was made in due form. The
Cherokee warrant had been issued by. the land-officers, who
were called upon to make the entry. 'The assignments upon
the warrant were primd facie evidence of 'right in -Cunningham,
and there does not appear to have been any objection to them;
they must be considered, therefore, as having been held sufficient. The money on the entry was offered to be paid to the
Receiver, and the only defect in the evidence was as to the improvements and occupancy of the complainants. These, it is
contended, the court may presume were within the knowledge
of the land-officers, or that the facts were proved by par6 l, or
that they were proved by affidavits, which have become mislaid
or lost. As the proof in the record, in regard to these facts,
applies to the preemption claimed under the act of 1830, there
is'no occasion to resort to presumptions on this *head.

-

SUPREME COURT.
Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

The pregmption act of the 29th of May, 1830, in the first section, provided, "that every settler or occupant of the public
lands, prior to the passage of this act, who is no* in possession,
and cultivated any part thereof in the year 1829, shall be, and
he is hereby authorized to enter, with the Register of the landoffice for the district in which the lands may lie, by legal subdivisions, any number of acres, not more than one hundred and
sixty, or a quarter section to include his improvement, upon
paying to the'United States the then m'nimum price of said
lands."
Under this law the applicant was a witness, and Cunningham
was interrogated by the land-officers on his application. He
stated that in the year 1829, he cultivated about four acres on
the quarter secti6n claimed, and that he had been in possession
of said improvement for near ten years, and that he was still in
ossession of it. And he further stated, Christian Brumbach
ad an improvement on the same quarter section which he had
in cultivation, in the year 1829, and has continued to hold possession of the same to this time. This statement is corroborated
by the oath of C. Brumbach, and as to the occupancy and improvement of complainant, by C. H. Pelliam and Richard
Searcy.
It is clearly shown, that the improvements of Cunningham,
up to 1831, were wholly on the quarter sectiorr claimed; and
that his cultivation and occupancy continued without interruption from the -time he took possession in 1821, until the fall of
the year 1831. He then removed to his Fresent residence, the
principal part of which is on the north-west'quarter section, but
*apart, if not all, of his outbuildings, are on the south-east quarter. His former residence was south of his present one. The
improvement he made at first is still cultivated by him.
As lot number one, on which the complainant's first house
was built, was conveyed to Bertrand, his step-son, in 1821, by
O'Harra, it is contended that the comphanant had no such residence on the land, as to entitle him to preemption. Bertrand
was a minor, and lived with his step-father at the time, and it is
quite clear, that a minor cannot claim a pre mptive right. But,
in addition to this, as the case is now before us, it does not appear that O'Harra had any right to the lot conveyed.
It is objected that Cunningham's improvements, though on
the quarter section claimed, are limited by the boundaries of a
certain square, or lots, within the city of ' Little Rock;" and
that, consequently, he cannQt claim a preemption for the quarter
section.
On the 20th, of Noyember, 1821, certain individuals, assuming
to be owners and proprietors of the north-east fractional quarter

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

385

Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

of section number three, and of fractional section number two,
of township number one, north of the base line in range number
twelve west, entered into a deed of assurance, in which they
agreed to lay out the town of Little Rock, specifying the streets
and alleys, and making certain donations of public squares and
lofs for public purposes. This plat appears to have been surveyed so as to embrace the quarter section ia controversy. In
their answers, the defendants specify a number of lots sold in
the south-east quarter, and they allege the greater part of it has
been sold in lots. The proprietors in their deed say, that they
extended the plat to adjoining lands not owned by them.
This survey of lots in the south-east quarter of section three,
if made without authority, cannot embarrass the complainnt's
right. The Nev, MIadrid locations being out of the case, should
the right of the complainant be sustained against the.legal title
of the defendants, the surveys must be considered as void.- The
town was incorporated in 1825, and, by the act of 1827, the corporation was extended so as to embrace the whole of the town
plat.
'When the improvement of the complainant was commenced,
the south-east quarter was in its natural state, unchanged by any
improvement.
Every legal requisite appears to have been complied with under the act of 1830, to entitle the complainant to a preemption.
His improvement and occupancy under the law were clearly
proved. Indeed it would seem, from the facts, that he was
entitled to become the purchaser of the land under the law of
1824. But all the facts, necessary to establish his right, were
before the Register and Receiver on his second application. His
application to make the entry may be said to have been rejected,
because it was not allowed. But no doubt can exist as to the
ground of the rejection. It was not on account of any deficiency in the proof, but on the ground of the New Madridlocations. This is placed beyond question, by the parol proof in
the case, and the correspondence of the General Land-Office.
Other objections to the claim, after the second rejection, were
stated by that officer, which alleged a want of diligence by the
complainant, in failing to do what he has proved was done, in
the prosecution of his right. Some of these objections showed
a misapprehension of the facts, others of the law.
The offices at, Batesville were loosely kept, and it appears in
proof that some year or two before his death, Boswell, the Register, became intemperate, and his duties were neglected. Great
labor was required from his successor to reduce to system the
confused mass of papers he found in the office.
It was the practice of the office to indorse on the envelop
VOL. XIV.

33

SUPREME COURT.
Cunningham v. Ashley et al.

of the preemption papers, the decision, of which no other entry
was made. And one of the witnesses states that "rejected"
was indorsed on the envelop which inclosed the papers of Can,
ningham. It is difficult to reconcile this .fact with two lists in
the record, duly certified, of preemptions allowed, in both of
which the name of Cunningham is found. The word "rejected"
is on one of the lists. There can be no doubt the claim was
rejected as -often as it was brought to the notice of the land
department, so long as the New Madrid locations were sanctioned. No other decision could be made. But on the 6th of
June, 1838; floats were permitted to be located on the quarter
section in controversy, covered by the New Madrid locations.
This was procured through the agency of the defendants, and
for their benefit.
It was the result of a controversy of nearly twenty years' continuance. Since eighteen hundred and twenty-one, Cunningham had occupied. the land, and had carried on the controversy
with a commendable energy, and at no small expense of time
and money. He urged his claim at the General Land-Office, per.
sonally, and by agents. The correspondence on the subject
was,earnest and voluminous. But the defendants, having made
their entries, received the legal title. And their equity must
now be compared with that of the complainants.
The New Madrid locations were controlled by the defendants.
And they were not withdrawn, or the obstacle which they created removed, until the defendants' entries were made. The
flQats under which these entries were permitted, were issued
under the act of 18a0, continued in force by the act of 1834.
The second section of the act declared that these floats should
beso located, "as not to interfere with other settlers, having a.
right of preference." And the circular of the land-office directed that they" should be restricted to unimproved and vacant
lands."
These stringent regulations were not sufficient to protect the
rights of the complainant. His occupancy, improvements, and
claim, were known to the defendants, and to all- the officers of
the gover- ment, who acted on the subject. They excused or
justified themselves on the ground, that by permitting'the entry
to be made, many of the citizens of "Little Rock" would be
quieted in their titles.
On the 6th of July, 1838, an instrument, under seal, was entered into between Roswell Beebe, to whom the patents were
issued, of the one part, and the Mayor and Aldermen of the city
of "Little Rock,!' in behalf of said city, as well as in behalf of
the -State of Arkansas, and also in behalf cf any person or persons who may have in his own right a proper and regular chain

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Cunningham ,. Ashley

387

et a'l.

of conveyance or conveyances of any town lot or lots situated
in the first original town, now city of "Little Rock," derived
from, by, or under, any one or more of the original owners and
proprietors of the town, as represented upon the first original
plan as then surveyed and laid off into town lots, of the other
pat, witnesseth, that *hereas the said Roswell Beebe has
caused to be located and entered with preEmption floating
claims, at the Land-Office at "Little Rock," and~upon which the
city, south of the Arkansas River, and west of the Quapaw line,
is now built, the following described tracts or jiarcels of land, to
wit, the north.east fractional quarter of fractional section three,
and the west fractional part of the north-west and south-west
fractional quarters of fractional section two, all in township
one, north of the base line of range twelve west, &c: And in
all cases, where purchases of lots had been made in the above
tracts, Beebe bound himself to release to the purchasers.
This arrangement induced the land-officers to permit the entries to be made, as well on the south-east quarter in controversy,
as on the tracts above described. And it was considered at the
General Land-Office as a sufficient compliance with.the circular
of that office, dated the 11th of October, 1837. The patents
on this view were issued to Beebe; and on the 11th of January,
1842, Beebe conveyed one half, of the south-east quarter in controversy, to Ashley.
However satisfactory the agreement of Beebe may have been
to claimants of lots on the tracts specified in his agreement, as
it did not embrace the land claimed by the complainant, it was
not designed for his benfilt. And it is unaccountable that the
land-otficers at "Little Rock" and at Washington, should have
considered the arrangement as a compliance with the regulation
which prohibited the entry of floats upon improved or occupied
land. And it is worthy of remark, that these locations were
permitted to be made at "Little lRock," while the claimant was
at Washington, prosecuting his claim.
Has the complainant placed himself in, a position to object
to the defendants' equity? . He did every thing he could reasonably be required to do, to locate his Cherokee warrant on the
land, under the act of 1824. Ha4 it bean objected, on that application, that he did not prove his improvement and occupancy,
the witnesses would, at once, have been called. With'this exception, he did every thing the law required to perfect his claim.
But, under the act of 1830, his pro6f was in no respect defective. It was worthy of the highest credit, and full to every
point; and the money was offered to be paid. - But the locations
of the New Madrid warrants were an obstacle then, as they had
been on the first application. These locations were not in the

388

SUPREME COURT.
Cuuningham v. Ashley et al.

way of defendants' floats, and it is not rfaterial to inquire by
what means they were set aside. This being done, the rights
of the complainant were paramount to those acquired under
the new location. Those rights were founded on the settlement
and improvement in 1821, and on the acts done subsequently in
the prqsecution of his claim. Having done every thing which
was in his power to do, the law required nothing miore. And
the defendants who caused the floats to be located on the premises, had full notice of the complainant's rights. They are
chargeable with this notice. Under the second section of the
act of the 29th of May, 1830, and the circular of the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, of the 1Ith of October, 1847.
so far as the new eltries interfered with the rights of the complainant, they were void. They were in conflict with the law
and the regulation.
The pretence that the agreement of Beebe, which bound him
to execute deeds to the purchasers of lots, was a compliance
with the above cirenlar, so far as regards the land in controversy,
was without foundation. It may have misled the officers at
Washington, and in this it may have answered its purpose.
The officers of the government are the agents of the law. They
cannot act beyond its provisions, nor make compromises not
sanctioned by it.
By the second section of the act of .830, it is provided,
"That if two or more persons be settled up'on the same quarter
section, the same may be divided between the two first actual
settlers, if by a north and south, or east and west line, the settlement or improvement of each can be included in a half quarter section."
At the time the complainant applied for a preemption" under
the act of 1830, he stated that Christian Brumbach had an improvement on the same quarter section, which he had in cultivation in the year 1829, and has continued to hold possession of
the same to this time. And it was proved that Brumbach
cultivated the land in 1830. The improvement occupied by
complainant was commenced About the same time as the one
occupied by Brumbach; and the evidence shows that they were
the first settlers on the land. This we suppose, under the law,
limits the preemption claimed by the corr.plainant to one half
of the quarter section. The residence and improvement of
Brumbach brought him prind facie within the law; whether
he applied for and attained a preemption or not. It was necessary, under the regulations of the General Land-Office, that the
complainant should state, in his applica-donsi the occupancy,
improvement, and cultivation of Brumbach, and whatever objection may be made to his preemption claim by the govern-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

389

Cunningham v. Ashley e.

ment, cannot enlarge the right of the complainant. Brumbach
applied for a prernption in the quarter section, under the act of
1830, and established his right in every thing, except the tender
of the money. His claim was rejected, no doubt, on the same
ground, as was that of the complainant's.
Brumbach had conveyed his right to Ashley, in whom the
legal title is vested to one half of the quartet sqcton. This
removed the objection to the location of one of the floating
rights for eighty acres on the quarter, as the improvement, if not
made by Ashley, was owned by him. In regard to the one half
of the quarter, the entry was not prohibited by the second section of the act of 1830, or the circular of 1837. To extend the
preemptiVe right of the complainant over the entire quarter,
would cover improvements of another individual, made about
the same time as those on which his preemption is founded.
This would disregard the express provision of the law, which
gives to each settler, where there are two upon the same quarter
section, eighty acres.
As the right set up by the complainant arises under an act of
Congress, and the decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
was against that right, this court has jurisdiction of the case;
We have not considered any right equitable or legal, as arising under the New Madrid locations, laid upon the land in dispute. Such right, if any existed, is not presented 51n the pleading, in such a form as to require its consideration at. decision.
It therefore remains wholly unaffected by the decree.
The facts in the case are exceedingly voluminous anc complicated; but we have considered them, and the legal and equitable bearing they have upon the title of the parties. Upon
this view, we are brought to the conclusion that the entries on
which the defe'ndants' patents were issued, were void, so far as
they interfere with the claim of the complainant, for the reasons
stated, and that, consequently, the patents are also void. The
decree of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is therefore reversed;
and the cause is remanded to that court, with instructions to
enter a decree in pursuance of this opinion. And in order to
give more definitely our views, we state, that, on a full consideiation of the pleadings and proof in the case, we consider that
the two entries of eighty acres each, made in the name of
Samuel Plummer and Mary Louisa Jenbeau, on the south-east
quarter of section number three, in township one north, and in
of pre
tlie.2
range twelve, west of the fifth principal meridian, souththe
Ariansas River, are void .so far as they interfere with
emptive right of Matthew Cunningham to onie half of the said
quarter; and that Roswell Beebe, and the heirs of Chester
Ashley, deceased, defendants, shall execute a deed of quitclain
33 *

-

50-

SUPREME COURT.
Bosley et al. v. Bosley's Executrix.

to the said Cunningham, on his paying or tendering to them
the minimum price of the public land, with interest from tl
sixth of June, 1838, the time the above entries were made, to
one half of the above quarter section, by east and west, or n6rth
arid south lines, so as to include his improvement on the quarter
section, or, if such a division cannot be made, that they convey
to him, as aforesaid, a joint interest of one half in the quarter
section.
And the court order that ne decree shall in no respect affect
any right which may or does exist, under the New Madrid locations, in the defendants or other persos, if any there be.
Order.
This -cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, thalt the
dcree of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Supreme Court, for,
further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the opinion
of this court.

MARY LUCINDA BOSLEY, HENRY BOSLEY, MARY JANE DAVIS,
SALLY 'ANN DAVIS, JAMES BOSLEY AND MELDRID BOSLEY,
(INFANTS,) BY THEIR GUARDIAN AND NEXT FtIIEND JOHN BosLEY, AND JOHN BOSLEY SON OF THE SA:(D.JOHN, V. IMIARGA-

RET E' WYATT, EXECUTRIX OF ELIZABETH

N.

BOSLEY,

DE-

CEASED.
James Bosaiy, in his will, after sundry specific devises and bequests, devised and bequeathed all his lands and other real estate in Baltimore, Cecil, and Alleghany
counties, in Maryland, and also in Florida, and his house and lot in Santa Croix,
and. all the real estate he might have elsewhere, to his wife Elizabeth, her heirs and
assigns, in trust to sell the same and divide the net pro.eeds thereof, with all the
residue of his estate, equally between herself and the children of his brother.
After making his will, he sold all of the lands, particularly mentioned in the residuary
clause of the will above stated, except some lands lying in Baltimore county. At
the time of making the codicil hereafter-mentioned, he held some of the proceeds
of these sales in bonds and other securities, and vith the residue had purchased
other property.
He afterwards made a codhil, by which he devised his summer residence, in Baltimore
county, to his wife, and also the securities he held for the lands sold in Cecil county,
and directed all the property he had acquired after the date of his will to be sold,
and the proceeds to be qually dividbd between his wifa and her sister Margaret.
Then followed a residuary clause in the following words:

