DECEMBEIR TERM, 1852.
Moore v. The People of the State of Illinois.

it to reverse its judgnment, in a matter where the law authorized
it to judge. In the case before us, the power of deciding on the
sultieiey of the affidavit, and the amount of bail, is a part of
the judicial power of the court. It has exercised this power,
and passed its judgment. We do not mean to say that this
judgment is in any respect erroneous. But, assuming it to be
so, this court cannot, by mnandamuns, command them to reverse
it. The writ has never been extended so far, nor ever used to
control the discretion and judgment of an inferior court of
record acting within the scope of its judicial authority. There
is no -round, therefore, for the rule under the act of Congress.
The application under the Maryland act of 1715, is equally
untenable. The provision in that act relied on in support of
the motion, was never held in Maryland to apply to any thing
but the bail-bonds to be taken by the sheriff in certain cases,
and never influenced the decision of the courts as -to the amount
of bail to be required when the defendant was brought into
court. But it is unnecessary to speak of that act, or of'the
construction it received in the courts of Maryland; because
the right of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court to demand bail
depends altogether upon the act of Congress. And if there is
any discrepancy between this act and the act of Assembly of
1715, the act of Congress must govern, and is a repeal pro.tanto
of the Maryland law.
The rule to show cause is therefore refused.

THO.MNAS MOORE, EXECUTOR
ERROR, V.

THE PEOPLE

OF RICHARD
O'

EELS, PLAINTIFF

THE STATE

IN

OF ILLINOIS.

A State, under its general and admitted power to define and punish offences against
its own peace and policy, may repel from its boiders an unacceptable population,
whether paupcr.. criminals, fugitives, or lilberated slaves: and, consequentlv, may
Punish her citizens and othrs who thwart this policy, by harboring, secreAing, or
in any way assi~ting such fugitives.
It is no objection to such lecilation that the offender may be liable to punishment
under the act of Congress tbr the same acts, when injurious to the owner oft the
fugitive slave.

The cace of' Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. (16 Peters, 539,) presented
the following question% which were decided by the court:
1. That under and in virtue of the Constitution of the United States, the owner of a
slave is clothed with entire authority in every State in the Union, to seize and recapture his slave, wherever he can do it without illegal violence or a breach of the
peace.

2. That the government of the United States is clotheo with appropriate authority
and functions to enforce the delivery, on claim of the owner, and has properly ex-

ercised it in the act of Congress of 12th February, 1793.
VOL. XIV.

2

14

SUPREME COUL'T.
Moore v. The People of the Sta';e of Illinois.

3. That any State law or regulation which interrupts, impedes, limits, embarrasses,
.delays, or postpones the right of the owner to the immediate possession of the
slave, and the immediate command of his service, -is id.
This court has not decided that State legislation in aid of the claimant, and which
does not directly nor indhectly delay, impede; or frustrate the master in the exercise of his right under the Constitution, or in pursuit of his remedy given by the
act of Congress, is void.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Illinois, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section
of the Judiciary Act.
The section of the law of Illinois, under which Eels wa indicted in 1842, and the facts in the cate are set forth in the
opinion of the court, and need not be repeated. The court
before which he was tried, fined him four hundred dollars, and
the Supreme Court of Illinois affirmed the judgment. The
case is reported in 4 Scammon's Rep. 498.
It was argued, in this court, by 11r. Clwse, for the plaintiff in
error, and a printed argument filed by Mr. Dixon on the same
side; and by Mt1r. Shields for the defendant in error, who filed a
printed argdment prepared by Ir. McDougall, Attorney-General of Illinois.
The arguments urged by the counsel for the plaintiff in error,
in order to show that the law of Illinois was void, were, 1. That the act of Congress, passed in 1793, was constitational; that the power of legislating upon the subject of fugitive slaves, ought to be vested in Congress; that the act had
been declared to be constitutional by the following authorities:
16 Peters, 620 et seq.; 9 Johns, 67 ; 12 Wendell, 311 ; 2 Pick.
11; 5 Sergeant & Rawle, 62; 2 'Wheeler's Crim. Cases, 594.
2. That the power was vested exclusively in Congress, and
if there was an omission to legislate, silence was as demonstrative of its will a5 express legislation. 5 Wheat. 1, 21, 22; 16
Pet. 617 et seq.
3. That admitting the power to be concurrent, its exercise
by Congress supersedes all State legislation. 1 Kent, 380, 391;
1 Story, Com. on Con. ยง437 to 443; 12 Wend. 316, 325; 1 Pet.
Con. Rep. 429; 4 Id. 414-5; 2 Wheel. Crim. Cas. 594; 5 Whpeit.
21,24, 36, 70, 75; 14 Wend. 532-6; 16 Pet 617-8.
4. The act of Congress of 1793, and the law of Illinois, confilet with each other.
5. Two laws legislating over the same offence, cannot exist
at the same time.
6. If so, the law of Illinois must give way
It was 'particularly pressed upon the court by Mr. Chase,
that this court had decided, in the case of P.rigg v. Pennsylvania,
(16 Pet. 539,) that all State legislation upon the subject of fugi.

DYCEMBER TERM, 1852.

15

Moore v. The People of the State of Illinois.

tive slaves, was void, whether professing to be in aid of the
legislation of Congress, or independent of it, was void; and
he claimed the benefit of that decision.
The counsel for the defendant in error, commented on the
various positions above mentioned; and the following extract
from the brief,-shows the principal ground relied upon to vindicate the State law.
The case just cited, (Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheaton,) leads directly to the question, What is 'the particular power exercised
by the State in the present: instance ; whence derived, and what
the design and mode of its operation? And it may be as well
here to remark, that it is not alone in the light of an act in aid
of the legislation of Congress, that this law is to be considered.
The qtiestion before this court is one of power-of power in
the State to legislate in the particular manner. If the power
exists in the7 State, no matter from whence derived, the validity
of the law cannot be questioned.
It is now contended that the power. in question belongs to
the States in virtue of their original and- unsurrendered sovereignty; in -virtue of those great conservative powers which all
governments must have, exefcise, and maintain for their own
protection and preservation; powers which, in the language of
Mfr. Madison, (Federalist, No. 45,) "extend to all the objects
which, inthe ordinary course of affairs, concern the lives, liberties, and properties of the people, and the internal order, improvement, and rosperity of the State."
In the City of New York v. Miln, (11 Pet. 1"39,) the court say,
"that a State has the same undeniable, and unlimited jurisdiction over all persons and things within its territorial limits
as any foreign nation, when that jurisdiction is not srrendered
or restrained by the Constitution of the United States," &d.
It has been before remarked, that slavery exisfs to a limited
extent in the State of Illinois; nevertheless, it is the settled
policy of the State to discourage the institution, as also a free
negro population. By numerous acts of legislation, before and
since the present constitution, it has been made penal to introduce negroes from other States, except upon severe conditions.
Negroes have been and continue tb be regarded as constituting
a vagabond population; and to preirent their influx into the
State, restrictive laws have been from time to time passed. In
connection with this regulation is to be found the law in question, prohibiting persons "within the State from harboring or
secreting fugitive negro slaves. The question whether a State
may not prohibit its citizens from harboring.or protecting felons,
fugitives from other countries, is the same with this. It is pos.

16

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. The People of the State of Illinois.

sible that some new State might becom~e a country of refuge
for the accused and convicted outcasts of older and stronger
governments; would that State be compelled to receive and
welcome the moral pestilence? Certainly not; the right of
self-preservation, necessary to all governments, would justify any
act required to repel them from her borders.
It was upon this principle, as a sovereign power in the State,
thai this couyt sustained the law of New York, intended to.
prevent the influx of a pauper and vagabond population at the
port of New York. City of New York v. Miln, (11 Pet. 42.)
In which case the court say, " We think it as competent and as
necessary for a State to provide precautionary measures against
the moral pestilence of paupers and yagabonds, and possibly
convicts, as it is to guard against the physical pestilence which
may arise from unsound and infectious articles imported, or
fr6m a ship the creW of which may be laboring under an infectious disease."
It was in favor of this same power that ",he court, in Prigg v.
Pennsylvania, (16 Pet. 625,) qualify the general terms of their
opinion, -1 To guard, however, against any possible misconstruction of our views, it is proper to state that we are by no
means to be understood, in any manner whatsoever, to doubt or
to interfere with the.police power belonging to the States, in virtue of their general sovereignty," &c.
The State may arrest, restrain, and even remoye from its
borders, the. fugitive slave, and so long as the rights of the
owner are not interfered with, it is a constitutional exercise of
power. If, then, the greater power exists, that over the person
of the slave, for the purpose of police, certainly the. lesser
power, that over the citizen, pr'eventing him from harboring,
secreting, or protecting the slave, for like puiposes of police,
will nbt be denied.
It will be perceived that this view of the case settles the point
made. in the opposing argument, that the law of Illinois is a
violation of the Federal and State Constitutions, which prohibit
-two punishments for one offence. A legal offence is the breach
of a law. Eels, in harboring a fugitire sla-e, violated a law of
t4his State, by interfering with its internal policy. He also violated a law of Congress, by interfering with the rights of the
slave-owner secured by the Constitution. The one act constitutes two distinct offences against the sevEral laws of distinct
j-urisdictiofns. Within the same jurisdiction one act frequently
constitutes several offences, as in the familiar cases of assaults,
libels, and other personal injuries, which are oflnces against
the persons injured, and at the same time offences against the
government; and the different oflnces may be separately tried,

D,ECEMBER TERM,

1852.

17

Moore v. The People of the State of Illinois.

-and separately punished. The constitutional provision is not,
that no 1ierson shall be subject, for the same act, to be twice
put in jeopardy of life or limb; but for the same offence, the
same violation of law, no person's life or limb shall be twice
put in jeopardy.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was indicted and convicted under the
criminal code of Illinois for "harboring and secreting a: negro
slave." The record was removed by writ of error to the Supreme Cdurt Qf that State; and it was there contended, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that the judgment and conviction
should be reversed, because the statute of Illinois, upon which
the indictment was founded, is void, by reason of its being in
conflict with that article of the Constitution of the United
States which declares "that no person held to labor or service
in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another,
shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on
claim of the party to whom such labor may. be due." And,
also, because said statute is in conflict with the act of Congress
on the same subject.
That this record presents a case of which this court has jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, is
not disputed.
The statute of Illinois, whose validity is called in question,
is contained in the 149th section of the Criminal Code, and is
as follows: "If any person shall harbor or secrete any negro,
mulatto, or person of color, the same being a slave or servant
owing service or labor to any other persons, whether they reside
in this State or in any other State or territory, or district, within
the limits and under the jurisdiction of the United Stes, or
shall in any wise\hinder or prevent the lawful owner or owners
of such slaves or servants from retaking them, in a lawful manner, every such'person so offending shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, or
imprisoned not exceeding six months."
The bill of indictment, framed under this statute, contains
four counts. The first charges that" Richard Eels, a certain
negro slave, owing service to one C. D., of the State of Missouri,
did unlawfully secrete, contrary to the form of the statute," &c.
2. That he harbored the same.
4. For unlawfully secreting a negro owing labor in the State
of Missouri to one C. D., which said negro had secretly fled
from said State and from said C. D.
4. For unlawfully preventing C. D., the lawful owner of 'said
2e

18

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. The People of the Stat. of Illinois.

slave, from ref-king him. in a lawful mariner, by secreting the
said negro,'contrary to the form of the statute, &c.
In view of this section of the Criminal Code of Illinois, and
this indictment founded on it, we are unable to discover any
thing which conflicts with the provisions of the Constitution of
thL United States or'the legislation of Congess on the subject
of fugitives.from labor. It does not interfere in any manner
with the owner or claimant in the exercise of his right to arrest
and recapture .his slave. It neither inte-rupts, delays, or im*.pedesthe right of the.master to immediate possession. It gives
no immunity or protection to the fugitive against the claim of
his master. It acts,neither on the master nor his slave; on his
right or his remedy. It prescribes a rule of conduct for the citi.zens of Illinois. It is but the exercise of the power which
every State is. admitted to possess, of defining offences and
punishing'offenders against its laws. The power to make municipal regulations for the restraint and punishment of crime,
for the preservatiQn of the health and morals of her citizens,
and of the public peace, has never .been surrendered by the
States, or restrained by the Constitution of the United States.
In the exercise of this power, which has been denominated the
police power, a State has.,a right to make it a penal offence to
introduce paupers,. criminals, or fugitive slaves, within their borders, and punish those who thwart this policy by harboring, concealing, or secreting such persons. Some of the States, coterminous with those who tolerate slavery, have found it necessary
to protect themselves against the influx either of liberated or
fugitive slaves, and to repel from their soil a population hkely,
to become burdensome and injurious, either as paupers or criminals.
Experience has shown, also, that the results of suoh ccduct
as that prohibited by the -statute in question are not only to demoralize their citizens who live in daily and open disregard.6f
the duties imposed upon them by the Constitution and laws,
but to destroy the harmony and kind feelings which should exist between citizens of this Union, to create border feuds and
bitter animosities, and to cause breaches Df the peace, violent
assaults, riots, and murder. No one car. deny or doubt the
right of a State to defend itself pagainst Evils of such magitude, and punish those who perversely persist in conduct which
promotes them.
As this statute does not impede the master in the exercise of
his rights, so neither does it interfere to aid or assist him. If a
State, in the exercise of its legitimate powers in promotion of
its policy of excluding an unacceptable population, should thus
indirectly benefit the master of a fugitive, no one has a right to

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

19

Moore v. The People of the State of Illinois.

complain that it has, thus far at least, fulfilled a duty assumed
or imposed by its compact as a member of the Union.
But though we are of opinion that such is the character,
policy, and-intention of the statute in question, and that for this
reason alone the power of the State to make and enforce such
a law cannot be doubted, yet we would not wish it to be inferred, by any implication from what we have said, that any-legislation of a State to aid and assist the claimant, and which does
not directly nor indirectly delay, impede, or frustrate the reclamation of a fugitive, or interfere with the claimant in the prosecution of his other remedies, is necessarily void. This q1estion
has not been before the court, and cannot be decided in anticipation of future cases.
It has been urged that this act is void, as it subjects the delinquent to a double punishment for a single offence. But we
think that neither the fact assumed in this proposition, nor the
inference from it, will be found to be correct. The offences for
which the fourth section of the act of 12th February, 1793,
subjects the delinquent to a fine of five hundred dollars, are
diffierent in many respects from those defined by the statute of
Illinois. The act of Congress contemplates recapture and reclamation, and punishes those w.ho interfere with the master in
the exercise of this right- first, by obstructing or hindering the
claimant in his endeavors to seize and arrest the fugitive; secondly, by rescuing the fugitive -hen arrested; and, thirdly, by
harboring or concealing him after notice.
But the act of Illinois, having for its object the prevention of
the immigration of such persons, punishes the harboring or secreting nego slaves, whether domestic or foreign, and without
regard to the master's desire either to reclaim or abandon them.
The fine imposed is not given to the master, as the party injured, but to the State, as a penalty for disobedience to its
laws,. And if the fine inflictec by the act.of Congress had been
inad6 recoverable by indictment, the offence, as stated in any
one of the counts of the bill before us, would not have supported such an indictment. Even the last count, which charges
the plaintiff in error with "unlawfully preventing C. D., the
lawful owner, from retaking the negro slave," as it does not
allege notice, does not describe an offence punishable by the act
of Congress.
But admitting that the plaintiff in error may be liable to air
action under the act of Congress, for the same acts of harboring and preventing the owfer from retaking his slave, it does.
not follow that he would be twice,punished for the same offence.
An offence, in its legal sigification, means the transgression 'Of
a law. A man may be compelled to make reparation in da-

20

SUPREME

COURT.

Moore v. The Peop1d oi tae Starv of Illinoit

mages to the injured party, and be liable also to punishment
tor a breach of the public peace, in consequence of the same
act.; and may be said, in common parlance. to'be twice punished
for the same oifence. Evdry citizen of the United States is
also a citizen of a State or territory. He may be said to owe
allegiance to two sovereigns, and may be liable to punishment
for an infraction of the laws of either. The same act may be
an* offence or transgression of the laws of both. Thus, an
assault upon the marshal of the United States, and hindering
him in the execution of legal process, is a high offence against
the United States, for which the perpetrator is liablb to punishment; and the same act may be also a gross breach of the
peace of the State, a riot, assault, or a murder, and subject the
same person to a punishment, under the State laws, for a misdemeanor or felony. That either or both may (if they see fit) punish such an offender, cannot be doubted. Yet it cannot be truly
averred that the offender has been twice punished for the same
oflnce; but only that by one act he has committed two oflences,
for each of which he is justly punishable. He could not plead
the punishment by one in bar to a conviction by the other;
consequently, this court has decided, in the case of Fox v. The
State of Ohio, (5 How. 432,) that a State may punish the
offence of uttering or passing false coin, as a cheat or fraud
practised on its citizens; and, in the case of the United States
v. Marigold, (9 How. 560,) that Congress, in the proper exercis6
of its authority, may punish the same act as an offence against
the United States.
It has been urged, in the argume.it on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that an affirmance of the judgment in this case will
conflict with the decision of this court in the case of Prig v
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 540. This, We
think, is a: mistake.
The questions presented and decided in that case differed
entirely from those which affect the present. Prigg, with full
power and authority from the owner, had. arrested a fugitive
slave in Pennsylvania, and taken her to her master in Maryland.
For this he was indicted and convicted under a statute of Pennsylvania, making it a felony to take and carry away any negro
or mulatto for the purpose of detaining them as slaves.
The following questions were presented by the case and decided by the court:1. That, under and in virtue of the Constitution of the
United States, the owner of a slave is clothed 'with entire
authority, in every State in the Union, to seize and recapture
his slave, wherever be can do it without illegal -iolence or a
breach .of the peace..

DECEMBER TERMI,
Moore v

1852.

21

The People of the State of Illinois.

2. That the government is clothed with appropriate authority
and functions to enforce the delivery, on claim of the owner,
and has properly exercised it in the act of Congress of 12th
February, 1793,
3. That any State law or regulation which interrupts, impedes, limits, embarrasses, delays, or postpones the right of the
owner to the immediate possession of the slave, and the immediate command of his service, is void.
We have in this case assumed the corectness of these doctrines; and it will be found that the grounds on which this case
is decided Were fully recognized in that. " We entertain," say
the court, (page 625,) "no doubt whatsoever, that the States, in
virtue of their general police power, possess full jurisdiction to
arrest and restrain runaway slaves, and remove them from their
borders, and otherwise to secure themselves against their depredations and evil example, as they certainly may do in cases of
idlers, vagabonds, and paupers. The rights of the owners of
fugitive slaves are in no just sense interfered with or regulated
by such a course; and, in many cases, the operations of the
police power, although designed essentially for other purposes,
-for the protection, safety, and peace of the State,-may
essentially promote and aid the interests of the owners. But
such regulations can never be permitted to interfere with or
to obstruct the just rights of the owner to reclaim his slave, derived from the Constitution of the United States, or with the
remedies prescribed by Congress to aid and enforce tlhe same."
Upon these grounds, we are of opinion that the act of Illinois, upon which this indictment is founded, is constitutionaT,
and therefore affirm the judgment.
Mr. Justice AIcLEAN.
In the case of Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
the police power of the Stateg was not denied, but admitted.
*This court held, in Fox v. The State of Ohio, (5 How. 410;)
that a person might be punished under a law of the State for
passing counterfeit coin, although the same offence was punishable under the act of Congress, and, consequently, that the coilviction and punishment under the State law would be no bar
to a prosecution under the law of Congress. In that case I
dissented, and gave at large the grounds of my dissent.
As the case now before us involves the same principle as was
ruled in that case, I again dissent for the reasois then given,
and I deem it unnecessary now to repeat them.
It is contrary to fhe nature and genius of our government, to
punish an individual -twice for the same offence. Where the
jurisdiction is clearly vested in the Federal Government,.and

SUPREME

COURT.

Mloore v. The People of the State of Illinois.

an.adequate punishment has been provided by it for an offence,
no* State, it appears to me, dan punish the same act. The
assertion of,such a power involves the right of a State to
punish all offences punishable undei the acts of Congress. This
would praectically disregard, if it did not d.3stroy,.this important
branch of criminal justice, clearly vested in the Federal Goverhment. The 'exercise of such a power by the States would,
in effect, be a-violation of the Constitution of the United States,
and the Cbnstifttion of the respective States. 'They all pro-vide against a. second punishment for the same act. It is no
'satisfactory' answer to this, to say that -tha States and Federal
Government constitute different sovereignties, and, consequently,
may' each punish offenders under its own laws.
It is true, the criminal laws of the Federal and State Governments emanate from different sovereignties; but they operate
upon the same people, and should have the same end in view.
-Inthis respect, the Federal Government, though sovereign -within
the limitation of- its powers, may, in somE sense, be considered
as the agent of the States, to provide" for the general welfare,
by punishing offenses under its own laws within its jurisdiction.
It Is believed that no government, regulated by. laws, punishes
twice criminally the same act. And I deeply regret that our
government should be an exception to a great-principle of action,
sanctioned by humanity and justice.
It seems to .ie it would be as unsanisfactory to an individual as it would be illegal, to say to him that he must svbmit
tp a second punishment for the same act; because it is punishable as well under the State laws, as under the liaws of the
Federal Government. It is true he lives under the qgis of both
laws; and.though he might yield to the power, he would not be
&Aisfied with the logi6 or justice of the argument
Order.
This cause came on to be heara on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Illindis, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,,it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Cotirt in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
.affirmed, with costs.

