DECEMBER TERhf, 1852.

518

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

Whether the District Court erred in allowing an omission in
the certificate of the Commissioner to be supplied by oral evidence, or could regularly act upon knowledge assumed to be
within its judicial cognizance, we do notconsider it necessary
to examine, in order to dispose of the case before us. It must
be recollected that the defendants below, attempted no proof
whatsoever in support of any of their pleas. The plaintiff
having averred enough to show the jurisdiction of the court,
and nothing' having been adduced to impeach it, that jurisdiction remained as stated, and the plaintiff could lose nothing by
adducing either imperfect evidence, or no evidence at all, in
support of that which clearly existed, and which he, under the
circumstances, could not be called on to sustain. Even then
had the case in the District Court stood upon an issue regularly
formed upon the pleas in abatement, the evidence of the depositions was wholly unnecessary -the ruling of the court upon
that evidence was immaterial, and should not impair the
strength of the plaintiff's case, which was perfect without it. But
the exception to the ruling of the court on this point, must be
unavailable upon another view, as given in our consideration of
the preceding case. By interposing, the plea of the general issue after their several pleas in abatement, the defendants have
effectually waived those pleas, and surrendered the positions
covered by them. The judgment of the Circuit Court must in
this case also be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transciipt of the record from the Distiict Court of the United States for the District of Texas and was axgued by counsel. On consideration -whereof,it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that the judgment bf the said District Court mn this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and interest -until
the same is paid, at the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of Texas.

SAMUEL MARSH, WILLIiM B. LEE, AND EDWARD C. DELAVAN,
PLI1NTIFFS IN ERROR, V. EDWARD BROOKS, AND VIRGINIA C.
His WIrE, CHARLES P. BILLON, AND FRANCIS E. HiS WIFE,
WALTER G. REDDICK, AND DABNEY' C. REDDICK.
This court decided, in 8 Howard, 223, that the recitals in a patent for land, refering to
titles of anterior date, were not of themselves sufficient to establish the titles thus

recited.

SUPREME COURT.
Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.
The titles themselves being now produced, it is decided, that a permit, given by the
Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Louisiana, in 1799. to a person to form an establiqhment on the Mississippi, followed by actual possession and improvement, entitled
the occupant to 640 acres, including his improvements, although the Indian title
was not then extinguished.
It was not the practice of the Spanish government to make treaties with the Indian tribes.
defining their boundaries; but to prevent settlements upon their lands without special permits. Such permits, however, were usual.
The construction of the treaty between the United States Bnd the Sac and Fox Indians, must be that the latter assented to anoccupancy which was as notorious as their
own.
The act of Congress, approved April 29, 1816, (3 Stat. at Large, 328,) coitfirming
certain claims to land, confirmed this one, although the Recorder of Land Titles, in
his report, made in 1815, had added these words, "if Indian title extinguished."
These words were surplusage.

THis case was brpught up, by writ of error, from the District

Court of the United States for the Southerr District of Iowa.
It was before this court at January term, 1850, and is reported
in 8 Howard, 223.
The children and heirs of Thomas F. Reddick, (the defendants in error,) were the plaintiffs in the cDurt below, having
brought their action by writ of right, accorcing to the practice
of the courts in Iowa, to recover 640 acres of land upon the
right bank of the 1i-Yssissippi River.,
The acts of Congress and the patent to Reddick are set forth
in 8 Howard, to which the reader is referred. But the plaintiffs
having offered additional evidence, if may be proper.to bring the
-whole into one view. In the former trial the plaintiffs relied on
the recitals in the patent to Reddick to prove the title of Tesson: but this court having decided that those recitals were insufficient, the evidence produced upon the. trial of the present
suit in-the District Court was the following:
-Plaintiffs'Evidence.
1. The plaintiffs"proved, that Louis 1lon6r6 Tesson settled on
the land in controversy, in 1798, and on the 30th of March,
1799, obtained from the' Spanish government, a written permit
to settle thereon, which is recited at length inthe record.
2. 'That Tesson had possession, and inhabited, cultivated, and
had houses and orchards and fields on said lands, in 1798, 1799,
1800, and until 1805; and that all his right, under the permit and
settlembnt, passed, by mesne conveyances, to said Thomas F
Reddick.
3. That said Reddick duly presented and proved, before the
Recorder of Land Titles at St. Louis, his claim, and claim of
title from Tesson to said land; and that said Recorder, by his
report, dated November 1st, 1815, reported on said claim his
opinion, as follows: "Granted 640 acres, if Indian rights extinguished."

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

515

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

4. The act of Congress, approved April 29th, 1816, (3.U. S.
Stat. at Large, p. 328, ch. 155,) "for the confirmation of certain claims to land in the Western District of the State of
Louisiana, and in the Territory of Missouri."
5. That on the 17th of May, 1838, a patent certificate, (No.
1157,) was delivered, by the Recordei of Land Titles at St. Louis,
to Edward Brooks, (one of the original plaintiffs,) for the land
referred to in the report of November 1st, 1815.
6. A patent of the United States, issued to Thomas F. Reddick, described as assignee of Joseph Robidoux, assignee of
Louis Honor6 Tesson, for the lands in controversy, dated the
7th February, 1839.
7. They also proved, that they, the plaintiffs, were the heirs
and legal representatives of said .Reddick; and that the defendants were in possession of the land in controversy, at the commencement of the suit, and rested their case.
Defendants' Evidence.
The defendants then gave in evidence:
1. The treaty between the United States and the Sac and
Fox Indians, (7 U.- S. Stat. at Large, 229,) made at Washington on the 4th of August, 1824, by the first article whereof,
these Indians ceded to the United States all their right and title
to the lands claimed bythem between the Mississippi and the
Missouri rivers, and a northerly line, running from the Missouri, at
the entrance of the Kansas River, north 100 miles, to the northwest corner of the State of Missouri, and thence east to the Mississippi; but with the understanding "that the small tract of land
lying between the rivers Des Moines and Mississippi, and the
section of the above' line between the Mississippi and the Des
Moines, is intended for the use of the half-breeds belonging to
the Sac and Fox nations; they holding it, however, by the same
title, and in the same manner, that other Indian titles are held."
2. The act of Congress, approved June 30th, 1834, (4 U. S.
Stat. at Large, ch. 167, p. 740,) "to relinquish thereversionary.
interest of the United States in a certain Indian reservation
lying between the rivers Mississippi and Des Moines."
3. That the land in controversy is included within the interior
boundary lines of the Sac and Fox half-breed reservation, referred to in the treaty of 1824, and act of Cc.ngress of 1834.
4. The act of Congress of July 1st, 1836, (6 U. S. Stat. at
Large, p. 661,) by which the United States relinquished to the
heirs of said Thomas F. Reddick, their right in the lands embraced in said patent-but reserving any older or better claim
not emanating from the United States,. and providing, that in
tase said lands should be included in any reservation theretofore

SUPREME COURr,.
Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al..

made under treaty with any Indian tribe, Reddick should be
authorized to make another location on unappropriated lands.
5. 'That the 640 acres of land referred to in said act of Congress, of July 1st, 1836, lie within the exterior boundary lines
of said Sac and Fox half-breed reservation, made by the treaty
of August 4th, 1834.
6. That the land in controversy is worth more than $2000.
The defendants then rested their case.
The plaintiffs then prayed the cour to instruct the jury1. That under the treaty with Fra -.e,.of the 30th April, 1803,
and the several act§ of Congress passed in pursuance thereof,
for settlement of titles in the Territory of Missouri, Tessor 'nd
Reddick, as his assignee, had a valid subsisting interest in he
land in controversy, -at the date of the report made by the Recorder, which was not divested by the reservation in the treaty
with the Sac and Fox Indians, or the act of Congress of the
30th June, 1834..
2. That the claim of Tesson, and of Reddick, as his assignee,
as reported, was substantially confirmed by the act of Congress,
approved April 27th, .1816.
. That the patent, taken in connection with other evidence,
conveyed to the plaintiffs a fee-simple title to the land in controversy, and overrides the title set up by defendants.
These instructions were given by the Court.
The defendants then prayed the court to instruct the jury 1. That under the report of the Recorder of Land Titles, given
in evidence by the plaintiffs, they are not entitled to recover the
land, unless their title thereto has been confirmed by an act of
Congress. This instruction was given by the court.
2. That the. true construction of the act, of Congress of the
29th of April, 1816, given in evidence by the plaintiffs, does not
confirm their title to the lands sued for, if the Indian title to the
same was not at that time extinguished.
3. That the treaty of August 4th, 1824, ,ith the Sac and Fox
Indians, is a xecognition by the United States, at the date of
said teaty, of the Indian right to the lands in controversy; the
same being within the Sac and Fox half-breed reservation.
4. That the Indian title to the land in controversy was not
extinguished prior to the 4th of August, 1824.
5.. That the plaintiffs have shown no right to recover the land
in controversy in thii-suit.
The first of these instructions, prayed for by the defendants,
was given'by the court; but the second, third, fourth, and fifth
instructions,, as prayed, were refused to be given.
The defendants, by their counsel i exceptedl to the rulings and

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

617

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

decisions of the court in giving the instructions prayed for by
the phaintiffs, and in refusing to give the second, third, fourth,
and fifth instructions, prayed for by the defendants.
The jury, under these instructions, found a verdict for the
plaintifl,, and a bill of exceptions Ihrought these several rulings
before this court for review.
It was argued by 1l1r. Butler, for the plaintiffs in error, and
1il'. Geyer, for the defendants in error.
1.1'. Butter, for the plaintiffs in error, made several points.
The one upon which the decision of the court chiefly turned,
was the following:
II. The District Court erred, in giving to the jury the several
instructions prayed for by the counsel for the plaintiffs below.
1. The instruction, "that under the treaty with France of
the 20th of April, 1803, and the acts of Congress, Tesson, and
Reddick as his assignee, had a valid subsisting interest in the
land in controversy, at the date of the report made by the Recorder, which was not divested by the reservation in the treaty
with the Sac and Fox Indians, or the act of Congress of the
30th of June, 1834," was erroneous.
(After analyzing the treaty, and the several acts of Congress
from that time to 1815, 31r. Butler came to the following conelusion :)
Neither under the, treaty, nor under any one of the abovecited acts, or all of them combined, had PLeddick, as the assignee
of Tesson, a valid subsisting interest in the land in controversy,
at the date of the Recorder's report, November 1, 1816.
- 1. Under the treaty, every species of title to lands in Louisiana, emanating from the French or Spanish governmentswhetler perfect and complete, or inchoate and incomplete-was
recognized and protected as "property;" but mere permits to,
make settlements on such lands, even when lawfully granted by
such authorities, conferred no right of property within the meaning of the treaty. Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 How. 463; Soulard
& Smith v. United States, 4 Pet. 611; Smith v. United States,
10 Id. 326; Wherry v. United States, 10 Id. 328; Choutean v.
Eckhart, 2 How. 344; Mlenard's heirs v. MIassey, 8 Id. 293, 308,
806; Bissell v. Penrose, 8 Id. 317; Landes v. Brant, 10,1d. 348;
Glenn v. United States, 13 Id. 250; Heirs of Vilemont v..
United States, 13 Id. 261.
2. The equitable claim of settlers under such permits, upon
the justice or bounty of the. government, to complete their titles,
devolved, after the treaty of cession, on Congress, who, by the
several statutes above cited, have acted upon and regulated the
subject. Cases above cited.
44
VOL. XIV.

SUPREME COURT.
.Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

3. No specific quantity,,and no definite location, are mentioned in the written permit to Tesson; he is merely permitted
to establish himself, for the purpose of trade, with the Indians,
at the head of the rapid of the River Dei Moines. No survey
could have been made, nor was any made or coniemplated,
under this permit; nor did any interest, in any particular tract,
pass by it. to Tesson. United States v. Forbes, 15 Peters, 173 ;
Same v. Buyck, Id. 215; Same v. O'Hara, Id. 275; Same v.
Delespine, Id. 319; Same'v. Miranda, Id. 153; Same v. King,
3 How. 773; Same v. Lawton, 5 Id. 10; Same v. Villalobos,
10 Id. 541; Same v. Boisdore, 11 Id. 62; Same v. Lecompte,
Id. 115; Same v. Vilemont, 13 Id. 201; Bissell v. Penrose,
'8 Id. 317.
4. Tesson, after making his establishment, was to apply to
the Governor-General, to obtain a grant o. a convenient space
for the use of his establishment; and, until the obtaining of
such grant, Tesson neither had, nor could equitably clairl, any
interest whatever in any specific tract or lot.
5. This permit to Tesson was, therefore, a mere license toreside and trade in the Indian country; it was wholly insufficient to extinguish the Indian title in any particular tract, or to
sever any particular tract from the public domain; and, unless
confirmed by'Congress, and duly located by their authority,
Tesson had, and could have no standing, under said permit, in
a court of justice. Cases above cited.
See, as to the Indian title, and the proceedings necessary to
extinguish'it, the.following cases:- United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 741; Mitchell v. United Sttes, 9 Id. 711; S. 0.
15 Id. 52,83, 88; United States v. Fernandez, 10 Id. 303; Marsh
v. Brooks, 8 How. 223; Gaines v. Nichols:on, 9- Id. 356; United
States v. D'Auterive, 10 Id. 624.
6. Whatever power, under the acts of Congress passed prior
to the date of the Receiver's report, that affair might have to
grant or confirm to Tesson's assignee, as a donation, the land
claimed by him, neither of said acts had; by itself, confirmed his
claim.
The first branch of the instruction now under review- that
Tesson. and his assignee, on the 1st of November, 1815, had a
subsisting interest in the land in controversy - was, therefore,
erroneous.
Mr. Geyer, for the defendants in error, divided his points as
follows:
That a complete title td the land in ccntroversy was vested
in Thomas F. Reddick, on the 29th" of April, 1816, whether the
"Indian *rights" had, or had not, then been extinguished; and

DECEM1BER

TERM,

1852.

519

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

the title so vested has not been divested or impaired, by-any
subsequent treaty or act of Congress.
A confirmation of a title by act of Gongressnot only renders
it a legal title, but furnishes higher evidence of that fact than a
patent, inasmuch as it is a direct grant of the fee by the governmaent itsp.lf, whereas a patent is only an act of its ministerial
officer.' Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319, S. P.; Simms s
Lessee v. Irvine, 3 Dal. 405; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410.
The grant to the half-breeds by the act of 30th of June, 18345
docs not affect the gant to Reddick, by the act of 29th of April,
1816. It is a principle applicable to every grant, that it cannot
affect pre~xisting titles. Polk's Lessee* v. Wendall, 5 Wheat.
293; 9 Cr. 87; Patterson v. Loirm, 11 'Wheat. 380; Stoddard
et al. v. Chambers, 2 How. 284.
I. The c6nfirmation by the act of 29th April, 1816, vested
in Reddick the title, subject only to the Indian right of' occupancy, if not then extinguished. All grants by the government
are subject to such rights, wbether expressly reserved or* not,
but as soon as they are extinguished by cession or otherwise,
the grantee of the government acquires full dominion over the
property. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 137, 143; Mitchell v.
United States, 9 Pet. 711; tUnited States v. Hernandez, 10 Pet.
:304.
III. The report of the Recorder of Land Titles is an approval
of the claim of Reddick, and a recommendation that six hundred and forty acres of land be granted to him, "if Indian rights
extinguished." Referring it to Congress to determine the whole
question. Congress must therefore be understbod to have decided that the Indian rights were extinguished, or to have made
the grant subject to such rights, and in either ease the title of
the defendants in error is complete; all such rights having been
extinguished before the commencement of the suit.
IV. Although the grantee of the government takes, subject to
the Indian right of occupancy, the existence of such right is not
presumed, nor is the grantee bound to prove its extinguishment
in an action against a mere intruder, especially where, as in this
,case, the grant is by an act of Congress.
V. If the Indian right of occupancy could be set up as a bar
to a recovery under a grant by act of Congress, which is denied,
it was incumbent on the defendants below to prove the existence
of such right at the time of the commencement of the suit,
No such proof was made; on' the contrary, so far as the evidence discloses the existence of any claim by any Indian.tribe.
that claim appears to have been extinguished in 1824, so that
at that time, if not before, Reddick acquired the absolute dominion and right of possession.

520

SUPREME

COURT.

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

VI. The permit granted by the Spanish Government to Louis
Honor6 Tesson, to settle upon, occupy, E.nd cultivate the land
in controversy, as. his property, excluded all Indian rights. The
grants of the Spanish goverhment were not subject to Indian
rights, but operated as extinguishments of such rights on the
lands granted. At the date of the treaty by which Louisiana
was acquired, the title of Tesson, though incomplete, was
property protected by the treaty; that title, with all its incidents, was recognized by the laws of the United States; and
confirmed by the- act of 29th April, 1816; so that according to the record, no Indian right of occupancy existed since
1798.
VI. If the existence of an Indian right had been recognized
by the treaty of 4th August, 1824, as asserted in the third refused
instruction, such recognition would not have affected the title
of Reddick, granted in 1816. But that treaty recognizes no
such right; it is merely a relinquishment of a claim by the Sacs
and Foxes, a quitclaim by the Indians, and not a recognition
of their title by the United States.
The Sacs and Foxes, by a treaty of 3d November, 1804, (Stat.
at Large, vol. 7, p. 84,) ceded to the United States all their
claim td the lands east of a line drawn from a point on the
Missouri River, opposite the mouth of Gasconade, to a point on
the River Jeffre6n, thirty miles above its mouth, thence down
that river to the Mississippi River, and up the same to the mouth
of W iconsin River, &c.
The Great and Little Osages, by a treaty of 10th November,
180 , ceded to the United States all lands ".northwardly of the
Missouri River." A survey of the boundary was provided for in
the seventh article, and was made in 1816; the north boundary
being coincident with the north boundary of the now State of
MIissouri.
The Osages, as well as the Sacs and Foxes, had set up claims
to lands ndrth of the Missouri, and both relinquished to the
United States. But in 1824, the Sacs and Foxes still pretended
to have a claim -within the bounds of the State of lissouri,
which is relinquished by the treaty of 18/4.
Itcannot be assumed that the title to the country, embracing
the land in controversy, was in the Sacs and Foxes at any time;
ndr can the party claiming under a grant of the Sganish Governmpnt, confirmed by act of Congress, be required to prove that it
was not, or that their treaty of 1804 inclivded the land granted.
-The party who undertakes to maintain a possession against such
atitl), by howing an outstanding title or right of occupancy,
takes upon himself the burden of proving it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

521

Marsh et al. v. Brooks ot al.

1r. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was before us in 1850, and is reported in 8 Howard.
We then-held that as the patent to Reddick's heirs of 1839 was
younger than the treaty of 1824, and the confirming act of 1836,
by which the title of the United States was primd facie vested
in the Sac and Fox half-breeds, the patent could not prevail.
Nor could its recitals be relied on to give it legal effect from an
earlier date than it had on its face.
The judgment was then reversed, and the cause remanded
for another trial, and an intimation given, that probably additional evidence might be adduced on a subsequent trial, which
would establish an earlier and better title in the plaintiffs, than
that of the half-breeds. That trial has taken place, and the
case is now before us, with the evidence to which the recitals in
the patent of Reddick's heirs, to some extent, refer. This evidence consists of a permit given by the Lieutenant-Governor
of Upper Louisiana to Louis Honor6 Tesson, to establish himself at the head of the rapids of the River Des Moines, (being agreat rapid in the River Mississippi,) and having formed his establishment, he was assured that then it would be the duty of
the Governor-General of Louisiana, residing at .New Orleans, to
procure for said Honor6, a concession of sufficient space to
render the establishment available and useful to the trade of
the country in peltries, and so that said Honor6 might exercise
an oversight of the Indians, and keep them in the fidelity which
they owed to His Catholic Majesty; the object b6ing to increase the trade with the Indians on that border; and in which
said Honor6 was permitted to be a participant, and to trade
with the Indians in that part of His Majesty's dominions; nor
were any rival traders to be allowed. to deal with the Indians,
except such as had a passport for that purpose, signed by the
Lieutenant-Governor. This stipulation was made in March,
1799. Honor6 was then in possession of the land in dispute,
and had improvements on it; and he improved it further under
the permit of 1799, and continued there until 1805. He had
houses, orchards, and fields.
Thos. F. Rleddick's claim was regularly derived by assign.
ments from Honor6. Reddick's heirs, claimed a league square,
on the assumption that the permit to settle and inhabit, entitled
Honor6 to this quantity. But the Recorder at St. Louis, acting
as Commissioner, reject6d the claim for a league square; and
properly, as we think; there being only a promise of title in
future, but no concession of land; in the Lieutenant-Governor's
permission to Honor to establish himself, and occupy the premises, and trade with the Indians. "As,'howeve', Honor& held
actual possession, and had improved the land in an expensive
44*

SU.PREME COURT.
Marsh et al. v. Brooks el. al.

and substantial manner, he was- beyond question entitled to six
hundred and forty acres, including his improvements, under our
acts of Congress securing this quantity to actual settlers, had
the land laid within that part of Louisiana to.which the Indian
title was extinguished, at the time when the occupancy existed.
Being iu certain whether Honor6 was entitled, by reason of his
inhabitation and cultivation within territory to which the Indian title was not extinguished, the Recorder, in his tabular
statement, granted the siL hundred and forty acres, "if Indian
rights extinguished." And this expression has embarrassed the
title for more than thirty years. There were many claims in
the Recorder's repbrt and tabular statement, in which this one
is found; and by the act of April 29, 1816, all of them were
confirmed without exception, and without any notice having
tbe-n taken of the Recorder's remark, referring to an existing
Indian title to the land. That the Sacs and Foxes did claim
the co'ttntry generally, where this land lies, is not controverted;
nor was their claim ceded to the United States till 1824. And
this raises the question whether, according to Spanish usage,
whilst that power governed Louisiana, an axisting Indian claim
to territory-precluded inhabitation and cultivation under a permit to inhabit and cultivate a particular place designated in the
permit, and which was in the Indian country. Spain had no
treaties with any bf the Indian tribes in Louisiana, fixing limits
to their claims, so far as "we are informed. The Indians were
kept quiet, and at peace with Spanish subjects, by kind treatment and due precautions, which did nol; allow obtrusion on
lands claimed by them, without written permnits from the Governor; but that such permits were usual, cannot be doubted. The
county of St. Charles lies in the fork of the Mississippi and
Missouri rivers; it was settled, and the Nillage of St. Charles
established there, twenty years and more before we acquired
Louisiana; and yet, by the treaty of November 3d, 1804, this
section of country was ceded to the United States, by the Sac
and Fox tribes, extending from the Missouri River. opposite to
the mouth of the Gasconade, to' the Janfilione, or " North 2
Tivers," as now known; which empties into the Mississippi, in
the county of Marion, in the State of Missouri. This country
was as solemnly ceded, as was the country north of that cession, by the treaty of 1824; and which treaty is here set up in
opposition to Reddick's title. The treaty of 1804 was duly
ratified by the Senate -of the 'United States, and apparently
sanctioned, retrospectively, the Sac and Fox claim to the old
county of St. Charles, in like manner that the treaty of 1824
recognized an existing Indian claim to the half-breed tract.
where .the land in dispute lies.

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

52a

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.
And again in 1808, the Osages ceded to the United States
all the lands east of a line running from Fort Clark on the
Missouri River, situate a few miles below the mouth' of the
Kansas; thence, due south to the River Arkansas, qnd down
the same to the Mississippi; up the same to Sullivan's line;
then west to the north-west corner, being a point one hundred
miles due north of the -mouth of the Kansas Riker; and with
this line south to the north bank of the Missouri opposite the
mouth of the Kansas. Sullivan's line was run in 1816, in execution of the Osage treaty of 1808, and is the northern boundry
of the half-breed tract, and the line referred to in the treaty of
1824 vith the Sacs and Foxes, and which the Osage treaty of
1808, included.
This treaty had every sanction that a ratification by- our
Senate could give it, and is a recognition of an Indian title in
the Osages to nearly all the territory now embraced in the State
of Missouri, and the greater part of Arkansas; and of an Osage
right to tlte land claimed by Reddick up to November, 1808; and
yet the county and town of St. Louis, the seat of government in
Upper Louisiana during the existence of the Spanish colonial
government there, the post of New Madrid, the county, town, and
)ost of St. Chm.les,-were all within the cession made by the
Osages; and within which cession, lay a great mass of Spanish
orders of survey and grants, in regard to which this country has
been legislating and adjudicating for nearly fifty years, without
any one ever supposing that such concessions were affected by
these loose Indian pretensions set up to the country at a time
when the concessions were made; pretensions that the Spanish
government notoriously disregarded, further than a cautious
policy required. If permits to inhabit and cultivate were given
in so many other instances, regardless of Indian claims, no
reason exists why Honor6 Tesson, could not lawfully improve
the land in dispute under his permit; and in view of this notorious state of facts, the treaty of 1804 with the Sacs and Foxes,
by an additional article, declared that nothing in that treaty
.contained should affect the claim of. any individual (or individuals, if more than one) who had obtained grants of land
from the Spanish government beyond the boundary lines of
tle country then ceded to the United States, on lands claimed
by'the Sacs and Foxes, but not ceded by that treaty; provided,
that such grants had at any time been made known to the said
Indian tribes, and recognized by them.- That the large, valuable, and notorious "improvements were made by Honor6, at a
place where the -Sacs and Foxes themselves resided at the time,
is a historical fact. He resided there a, notoriously as they did.
His claim to this property was transferred to Reddick, and was

524

SUPREME COURT.
Marsh

et al.

v. Brooks et al.

occupied for twenty-five years under Tesson and Reddick, and
his heirs before the treaty of 1824 was made. It was held and
improved by authority of the Spanish government, and claimed
as individual property, to which the Indian right of.possession
did not extend; of this the, Indians never complained, nor do
they now complain; no half-breed owner and Indian descendant is defending this suit; it is defended by trespassers, showing no color of claim under the half-breeds, or any one else;
shelter is sought under the assumption that Honore's permit
and inhabitation were neither known or recognized by the Sacs
and Foxes, and that therefore, the additional article of the
-treaty of 1804, can-not protect the title of Reddick. *Weconcur with the opinion of Mr. Attorney-General Grundy, in his
report of 1839 .on Reddick's title, to the Secretary of the Treasury, (Opinions of Attorney-Gen., 1230,) that it must be presumed that the Indians both had knowledge and assented to
Honor6's claim; and we are furthermore of opinion, that the
Indian tribes, and the half-breeds, who claim under them, must
be held to knowledge, and to consent, that Honor6 took and
held, rightful possessions, from the fact of his open and notorious actual occupancy, and holding for himself, in their midst.
This is the settled rule in other cases, and no reason is seen
why it should not apply in this case. The reasons are quite as
strong, and the rule quite as necessary in its application here,
as it was in the case of Landes v. Brant, (10 How. 375,)
where we enforced the rule. *We are therefore of opinion
that the supposed Indian right of occupancy did not affect
the confirmation by Congress in this case, and that the remark
of the recorder, "If Indian rights extinguished," was surplusage,
and which remark Congress properly disregarded.
That the confirmation of 1816 carried the title with it, if the
confirmation was valid, has so often been decided by this court,
that it is not open to discussion; nor is it disputed here on behalf of the defendants below. The confirming act of 1816,
however' ordered that a patent should issue according to a survey afterwards to be made, in all cases confirmed by the act.
This has been done. The patent recites the necess'ary facts to
connect the confirmation with the patent, and gives date to it
by relation, as a legal title, from the 29th of Aprl, 1816, according to the boundaries set forth in the patent; and as this ruling
covers all the instructions that were given n the court -below,
and all such as were reftsed, we order that the judgment be
affirmed.
Order.
This .cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

525

Jackson v. Hale et al.

record from the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Iowa and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

JOHN JACKSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V.

SAMUEL HALE, GEORGE

C. MANY, AND JOHN V. AYER.
Where a warehouseman gave a receipt for wheat which he did not receive, and afterwards the quantity which he actually had was divided amongst the respective
depositors, an action of replevin, brought by the assignee of the fictitious receipt,
could not be maintained when, under it. one of these portions was seized.
Evidence offered to show that the wheat in question was assigned to the defendant,
was objected to by the plaintiff in the replevin; but such objection was properly
overruled. The plaintiff had shown no title in himself.
So also, evidence was admissible to show that the receiver of the fictitious certificate
had never deposited any wheat in the warehouse.
The defendants in this case were the assignees of the original warehouseman, and
were not responsible, unless it could be shown that wheat was deposited, which had
cone into their possession.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the Disftict of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was5 argued by 1r. L.fawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Lee, and Mr. Seward, for the defendants in error.
41Ir. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points.
First. The Judge of the District Court erred in ruling upon
the admission of testimony, that a -depositary, when theje is a
joint interest in the deposit, may change the joint interest of
depositors' into an interest in severalty, by mere setting apart,
without delivery made.
Second. The court erred in holding, that a depositor, having
a joint interest in one description of property, his depositary
could confer a. title upon him, to the extent of such joint interest, from deposits of a different description; 'or that if his deposits were in part winter wheat, &c., his depositary might set
apart to him the spring wheat of other depositors, and such act
of the depositary would give title.
Tkdrd. Testimony was improperly admitted, that "the property rose in value after it was taken in replevin," and "that

