DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

79

Herman v. Phalenu

settled what certainty is required, it is our duty to follow their
decisions on the State laws, regulating proceedings in cases of
tax-sales. We accordingly order the judgment of the Circuit
Court to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

DAVID

B.

HERMAN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROr, V. JAMES PHALEN;
SAME V. SAME.

The ease of League v. DeYonng and Brown, (11 Howard, 185,) considered and again
established.
THESE: two cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, and were argued together by 11Mr. Allen and MTlr.
Ovid F. olinson for the defendant in error. No counsel appeared for the plaintiff in error.
The points in the case were argued in the case of League v.
DeYoung, 11 Howard, 188, to which the reporter refers.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These two cases have been argued together snd depend upon
the same principles. They were decided in tue Circuit .Court,
before the opinion of this court was pronounced in the case of
League v. DeYoung dnd Brown, reported in 11 Howard, 185. In
that case, all of the questions which arise in the cases before us
were fully considered and decided; and that decision is adverse
to the doctrines now contended for by the defei dant in error.
Upon reviewing the olinion in League v. DeYoung and Brown,
We see no reason for changing it in any respect; and these two
cases must therefore be reversed, and a mandate issued to the
Circuit Court, directing the judgment in ea.ch of them to be
reversed, and the judgment entered for the plaintiff in error.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

80

SUPREME COURT.
Rundle et al. v. Delaware and liaritan Canal Company.

Eastern District of Louisiana, and.was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause 'be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to enter judgment for David B.
Herman, the plaintiff in error.

GEORGE RUNDLE AND WILLIAMix GRIFFITH s, TRUSTEES OF THE
ESTATE OF JOHN SAVAGE, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
V. THE DELAWARE AND RARITAN CANAL COMPANY.
By the law of Pennsylvania. the River Delaware is a public navigable river, held by

to divert its
its joint sovereigns in trust for the public.
no tile to the river, or any right
Bparian owners, in that State, have
waters, unless by license from the States..
divert
in subjectioneither
to the
rerior right of the State, to
Such
license
the water
is revocable,
for publicandimprovements,
by sn
the State directly, or by a corporation created for
that purpose.
not

The pro 'iso to the provincial acts of Pennsylvania and Ne'w Jersey, of 1771. does
river to A.dam HIoops and
the watersof of
usufructoroftoleration
grant
operate as a but
darn.
histhe
onlyof asthea license,

his assigns,
As,by the laws of his own State, the .plaintiff could ha'e no remedy against a corporation authorized to take the whole waters of the river for the purpose of canals,
or improving the navigation, so, neither can he sustain a suit against a corporation
of thetowaters.
taken
purpose,inwho
same
'by New Jer~ey for the at
created
the two
the water
of part
usufruct
the have
sufferanc
plaintiffs
The

to question•
condition
nft in aof
are consent
common,
own the
wvho rights
States
the other.
without
waters
use its in
eitherastotenants
o river
the relative
emolument,
for private
licensee,
to decide
case
This
priwto for can
.or both,
sovreig
either
licensee aoffirst
a later whether
against
a is not intended
support
vate purposes, diverts the water to the injury of "the first.

case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Ts
Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the court.
for
oroom and
Ashmead
s by r.tinr.
in print
I was gar ed al
orally, for the
_ead001.
the jtaintifl in error, and b$r Mr. Iohn
defendants in error. There was also a printed argument upon
the same side, submitted by himself and t . Green.
The arguments, upon both sides, contained histor~cal accounts
of the legislation of Pennsylvania ap.d New Jersey on the subject of the River Delaware, and the various compacts'and negotiations between them. It is impossible, it the report of a law

case, to give an explaniatio of nthese ransactions, commencing
before the Revc. ution, Those who may have occasion to investigate the matter minutely, would do well to obtain fom the
counsel their respective argurents. Al that w.l be attempted,

