SUPREME

446

COURT.

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

lated. But the contractor is neither within the letter nor the
spirit of the act.
A question has been made in the argument, whether the act
of Maryland, of 19th of December, 1791, formerly in force in
this district, is supplied or repealed, by the act of Congress now
under consideration. But as the proceedings in this case are
not within or under the act of Maryland, the question is not
before us for decision. The plaintiff claims his right to support
this proceeding, under the act of Congress alone, and if that
fais him, his only resource is to his action on his contract.
That he has mistaken his remedy, the court entertain no doubt.
If precedent were needed to justify this construction of the
act of Congress, it may be found in the reports of the Supieme
Court of Pennsylvania, where similar legislation has always received the §ame construction. See Jones v. Shawhan, 4 Watts
& Serg. 257; Hoatz v. Patterson, 5 W. & S. 537, &c.
4. It is unnecessary to notice particularly the exceptidn to the
form of the judgment. It is certainly not iii the form required
by the act; and although the act may be construed to prescribe
the effect rather than the form of the judgment, there is no reason why the form should differ from the effect; or that, in words,
it should give the plaintiff any thing more than the law gives
him, 'viz. execution of the property described in the scire facias.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore. reversed, and
venire de novo awarded..
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and fpr the county of Washington, and
'was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this cause, be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, wiih costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
award. a venirefacias de novo.

THE SALMON

MANUFACTURING COUPA NY, PLAINTIFF IN
ERROR, V. WILLIAM W. GODDARD.

-FALLS

The statute of fraud in Mbassachuietts, is -substantially .he same as that of 29 Car.
2, and declares that no contract for the sale of goods, &P, shall be valid, &!c "u-

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

447

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.
less some note or memorandum in writing of the bai
be made, and signed bv
the party to be charged thereby, or by some person thereunto by him lawfully authorized."
The following memorandum, viz.: "Sept. 19, W. W. Goddard, 12 nios. 300 bales S.
F. drills, 74; 190 cases blue do. 8 . Credit to commence when ship sails; not after
December 1st, delivered free of charge for truckage. The blues, if color satisfactori' to purchasers. R. M.
W. NV. G."-is sufficient to take the case out of the
W
statute.
If the terms are technical or equivocal on the face of the instrument, or made so by
reference to extraneous circumstances, parol evidence of the usage and practice in
the trade, is admissible to explain the meaning.
It was competent also to refer to the bill of parcels delivered for the purpose of explanation. It was made out and delivered by the seller, in the course of the fulfilment of the contract, acquiesced in by the buyer, and the goods ordered to be delivered after it was received.

TaIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court, and also
the rulings of the Circuit Court. The bill of exceptions extended
over thirty pages of the printed record.
It was argued by 111r. Goodrich,for the plaintiff in error, and
by iir..ohnson and BIr. Davis,with whom was M1r. Choate, fo
the defendant in error.
The points made.by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, were
the following:
I. The evidence before the jury was competent and sufficient
to authorize them to find that the bill of parcels had been
adopted, recognized, and acted upon by the defendant, as the
contract between himself and the plaintiffs.
II. The bill of parcels constitutes a contract known as a bargain and sale, by foice of which the title to the property passed,
without delivery, withou payment of the price. It purports on
its face a sale in presenti.
III. The paper signed by the defendant, dated 19th September, (Record, p. 11,) is a sufficient compliance with the statute
of frauds, and the first position taken, and the first instruction
asked in the court below, should have been sustained.
Addison on Contracts, 80. "it is not necessary that all the
particulars of the contract should appear upon the face of the
written memorandum. Any note, acknowledging the fact of the
sale, mentioning the name of the vendor and the thing sold, and
signed by the purchaser or his agent, will take the case out of
the statute."
Penniman v. Hartshorn, 13 Mass. 87; Egerton v. Matthews,
6 East, 307, as to the description of the goods being sufficiently
certain.
Even if it should be considered essential that the particular

A48

SUPREME COURT.
Salmon Falls Manufacturing CompEny v. Goddard.

bales and cases should be selected, this was done, and thereupon
the writing attached. See Record, p. 13, letters. The first
letter set apart No. 8180 to 8679. The 100 cases blue drills
were set apart at the counting room of Mlason & Lawrence, on
11th October.
The second letter called for No. 8480 to 8679-200 bales, thus
leaving set apart, 300 bales from No. 8180 to 8479.
In considering this position and instruction, the plaintiffs relied upon their usage, to require notes upoa all sales made upon
credit, which was known to Goddard.
This usage was competent, as constituting a part of the contract, as one of the incidents of the credit which was given.
Hutton v. Warren, 1 Mees. & Wrels. 466; Grant v. Maddox,
15 Id. 737; Syers v. Jonas, 2 Wels. Hurls. & Gor. 111. In an
action for the price of tobacco sold, evidence is admissible to
show that, by the established usage of the tobacco trade, all
sales are by sample, although not so expressed in the bought
and sold notes. Tibbets v. Sumner, 19 Pick. 166.
The contract is certain as to the parties, as to the number of
bales, the price per yard, so that the amount of the purchase
may be computed.
It is well established that a signature, by initials, is good;
but the fact, whose initials they are, must be settled by the jury,
upon proof. So, also, it is submitted,-that it is the province of
the'jury.to determine the claracter in which the parties signed.
It was for them to say whether Goddard, by signing his initials
and writing underneath the provision as to credit, and that the
contract as to the blues might be abandoned, if color not
satisfactory to the purchaser, is or is not sufficient, and was
designed by the -defendant to designate himself as the purchaser.
That he did so design, is apparent, also, from the fact that his
name is written at the top of the paper, prior to that of any other
person.
In detefmining this queption, it is competent for the jury'to
look at the situation of the parties and of the property, in aid
and in explanation of the paper, for the purpose of attaching or
locating the paper.
Whetler a party signed as a witness, or as a party, is often
determined from the location of his signature upon the paper.
Higgins v. Senior, 8 Mees. & Wels. 844. It may be shown
that a party, whose name does not appear upon the paper, is
bound as. a contracting party, where an agent signs his own
name instead of that of the principal.
Why not show, upon the same principle, or infer from the
paper, the character and purpose in and for which a party signs?
The provision in this paper, that the goods are to be delivered

DECEIBER TERM; 1852.

449

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

free of truckage, does not- prevent the passing of the property,
without and before delivery-and without payment.
Phillimore v. Barry, 1 Camp. 513. "If goods are sold to be
paid for in thirty days, and if not carried away at the end of
that time, warehouse rent to be paid-the property of the goods
vests absolutely in the purchaser, and they remain at his risk
from the moment of the sale."
King v. Meredith, 2 Camp. 639. "The fact that the carrier
is to be paid by the vendor, will not defeat the vesting of the
property."
Wackerbath v. Masson, 3 Ctmp. 270. "IWhere,in a contract
for the sale of sugar, there is the following term, ' free on board
a foreign ship,' the seller is not bound to deliver it into the
hands of the purchaser, but only to put it on board a foreign
ship, which it is the duty-of the purchaser to name."'
IV. The following instructions, asked for by the plaintiff below, and refused, ought to have been given by the court to the
jury.
Instruction third, asked by the plaintiffs. That if the jury are
satisfied that Mason & Lawrence were the general agents and
factors of the plaintiffs; that the memorandum of September19, 1850, was executed by the parties whose initials are affixed,
and was delivered by defendant to them; and that the invoi-ce
or bili of parcels, dated 30th of September, 1850, was delivered
by Mason & Lawrence to defendant, in furtherance of said con-tract, as containing a particular specification and enumeration
of the bales and cases mentioned'in the memorandum, or contract of September 19th, and was received and retained by him
as a true invoice, or bill of parcels, they are to be taken as parts
of one contract, and together constitute a memorandum or contract in writing, binding upon both parties, and not void within
the statute of frauds.
Eighth instruction asked. If the jury are satisfied thar the
two papers exhibited by the plaintiffs, severally dated September 19, and September 30, 1850,"relate to the same trdnsactions
and things, and manifestly relate to the same contract and.
transaction, they are to be construed together, and so taken, "
constitute a sufficient written note or membandum of the contract, within the statute of frauds.
Whether the two papers, the one dated the 19th, the other the
30th of September, constituted the contract of the yarties as'
finally settled, is a question of fact, exclusively for the determination of the jury- the construction of the papers is partly.a
matter of fact, and partly matter of law.
Addison on Contracts 80, 81. "The contract may be authenticated and established through the medium of letter§ and
38

*

450

SUPREME COURT.
Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

separate writings, provided they refer to each other, and to the
same persons and things, and manifestly relate to the same
contract and transaction."
Jackson v. Lowe, 1 Bing..9. This case recognizes the position
that two papers may be regarded from the same context and
s3ubject-matter of the papers, as referring to the same contract.
ft also recognizes the cases cited as to bills of parcels. See
also Smith's Mer. Law, 407.
DobeIl v. Hutchinson, 5 Neville & Man. 251. "And where,
upon such contract, (a paper signed only 6~y the purchaser,) it
does not appear upon the face of it, or by reference, of whom
the property is purchased, letters, written by persons in the
character of vendors, may be connected with the contract, for
the purpose of supplying this defect."
V. The evidence before the jury was conpetent and sufficient to authorize the jury to find a delivery and acceptance, to
and by the defendant.
VI. The defendant is estopped to set up the statute, or to say
that no delivery and acceptance has been made.
The points made by the counsel for the defendant in error,
were, the following.
L The memorandum in this case is insufficient to satisfy the
requirements of the statute of frauds.
"No contract for the sale of any goods, wares, or merclandise, for the price of fifty dollars or more, shall be good and
valid, unless the purchaser- shall accept and receive part of the
goods so sold, or shall gi-e something in earnest to bind the bargain, or in part payment, or unless some note or memorandum
in writing of the bargain be made and signed by the party to
be charged thereby, or by some person thereunto by him fully
D. 473.
authorized." Rev. Stat. of Mass. ch. 74, § ,2.
1. The memorandum of September 19, is 'insufficient, since
it cannot be understood without reference to parol evidence.
a. It does not clearly set out or evidence that a sale has been
made, or whether a contract for a future sale has been made, or
only proposals offered, leading to a sale not yet agreed on.
b. It does not ascertain who is vendor and who is vendee.
Addison on Contracts, 80; Bailey v. Ogden, 3 Johns. R. 399;
Smith's Mer. Law, 451.
c. The price is uncertain. Addison, 80; Smith's Mer. Law,
451, and the cases in his note; 5 B. & .683; 2 B. & C. 627;
1 N. R. 252; Laythrop v. Bryant, 2 Bing. N. C.; 10 BTug. 217,
227, 383, 482.
& The time of commencement of credit s uncertain; what
ship, and-what December, are uncertain.
e. The name of the plaintiff is not on the contract; nor the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

451

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

name nor initials~of any person then his agent. R. M. M. axe
not the initials of any person then an agent of the plaintiff.
Mason and Lawrence were the agents. and, to avail the platntiff,
he must produce a written contract, containing his name or
their names. Higgins v. Senior, 8 Mees. & Wels. 844; Shaw
et a. v. Phinney, 13 Met. 456.
To the various insufficiencies aforesaid, and to the general
principles on which the statute of frauds is construed: Ide v.
Stanton, 15 Vt. 685; Adams v. McMillan, 7 Porter, 73; Champioi v. Plummer, 4 B. & P. 252; Elmore v. Kingscote, 5
. & C. 583; Hoadley v. McLaine, 10 Bing. 482; Acebal v.
Levy, 10 Bing. 170; Cooper v. Smith, 11 East, 103; Kain v.
Old, 2 B. & C. 205; Parkhurst v. Van Cortlandt, 1 3. C.-R
280; Abeel v. Ratcliffe, 13 Johns. 297; Goss v. Nugent, 5 B. &
Ad. 58; Stowell v. Robinson, 3 Bing. N. S. 928; Harvey v.
Grabham, 5 Ad. & Ellis, 61; Ford v. Yates, 2 Man. & Granger, 549; 2 Kent's Com. 511, 6th ed.; Story on Sales, § 269,
p. 212; 1 N. H. 157; 3 Greenleaf, 340; 4 Scott's N. IL 504; 23
Wendell, 270, 275"; 5 Phil. Evidence, (Cowen's last ed.) 84;
16 Wendell, 28, 32.
2. The bill made out by Rien, dated September 80,-ca pot
be connected with the memorandum of September 19, to form
a note within the statute.
a. Neither contains any reference to the other.
b. The only one signed by defendant and on which only he
can be charged, (that of September 19,) does not ,anticipate,
provide for, or in any manner adopt the paper of September
30, written long afterwards; and it cannot be deemed to be
amended, completed, or altered by such subsequent unanticipated paper.
Addison on Cont. 80, 81, and cases there cited; 5 Phil. Ev.
(Cowen's last ed.) 84; Boydell v. Drummond, 11 East, 142; 1
t. on Ev. 603; 1 Greenl. on Ev. § 268; Chitty on'Cont. 314-16;
Sandiland v. Marsh, 2 B. & A. 680; Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Ves.
250; Tawney v. Crowther, 2 Bro. Ch. Cases, 320, n. a; Story
on Sales, § 272, p. 216.
3. The bill of sale of September 30th is in itself insufficient
as a memorandum, as not signed by the defendant, or by any.
-one authorized by him to sign it for him.
A. Neither Mason nor Rien had any express authority from
the defendant to sign for him, and their position gave them no
implied authority to do so.
Commission merchants stand upon a different footing from
brokers and auctioneers; being agents for one party only,
they can only bind their principals. 13 Met. 456; Sewall v.
Fitch, 8 'Cow. 215; Dixon v. Biomfield, 2 Chit. Rep. .205;

452

SUPREME

COURTT.

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

Wright v. Dun nell, 2 Camp. 203; Fairbrother v. Simmons,
5 B. & A. 333; 1 R. & M. 325, Raynard -v. Linthorn; Smith's
Merc. Law, 455, and cases cited; 1 BL. 599; 1 Esp. 105; 7
E. 569.
B. There was no subsequent ratification by the defendant of
the act of Rien.
a. The language of the defendant is perfectly consistent with
the idea that he had a right to insist upon having the goods, as
the bill sufficiently bound the plaintiff, and is therefore no necessary ratification.
b. The silence of defendant was no ratification. Rien was
an officious intermeddler in the business, (if he had assumed to
act as agent for defendant,) so far as defendant is concerned;
and it is holden by some, though denied by others, that in such
case, even after notice from such person of his act, silence is no
ratification. 1 Livermore, Agency, 50; Story on Agency, 251;
and note.
But defendant had no notice from Rien that he had assumed
to act for him, and so silence would not amount to ratification,
even under the worst view of the law for the defendant. MeLean v. Dunn, 1I M. & P. 761; and all cases hold that, to a ratification of an unauthorized agency, knowledge that there has
been an assumption of agency for the very party ratifying is
indispensable.
e. There was no express ratification of Rien's act by defendant.
The view which the court took at the nisi hearing of the
case of Batters v. Sellers, 5 H. & 3. 117, seems impregnable.
See, too, 5 Phil. Ev. (Cowen's last ed. 358,) Hawkins v. Chace,
19 Pick..502; Graham v. Musson, 5 Bing. N. C; 603.
3. Even if the memorandum of the bargain of September
19 was sufficient within the statute, yet unless there was a subsequent delivery to, and acceptance of, gocds by the defendant,
the property, under the special circumstances, did not pass, and
remained the plaintiff's at the time of the fire.
a. The- memorandum leaves it doubtful, whether a sale in
presenti, or a contract, or proposals towards a contract, for a
future sale, were intended. The probable, if not necessary
inference, from the face of the paper, is, that no present sale is
made.
1. No specific goods are designated.
2. An election to reject or deny any contract as to part, at the
mere pleasure of the purchaser, is reserved.
3. Credit is not to commence until a futre uncertain event.
4. Delivery is thereafter to be made.
a. The goods in fact were not at the time selected, or set

D.EOCEIBER TERM, 1852.

453

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v.-Goddard

apart; and of course no property therein could or did pass; this
aids also the inference from the face of the paper, that no present sale'was intended.
c. 'When plaintiff subsequently selected them, the property
Would not pass, certainly under such a contract, until defendant
accepted them, and thus adopted the particular designation;
and this he never did. In Rhode v. Thwaites, (6 B. & C. 388,)
there was such actual acceptonce by the buyer.
e. The plaintiff was permitted to prove that he had a right ix
a note before delivery; and he would have a lien for this; which
affords some ground of additional argument to show that the
property did not pass.
II. There was no delivery by the plaintiff, nor acceptance by
the defendant, sufficient to take the case out of the operation of
the statute requiring a demand.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.
The suit was brought by the plaintiffs in the court below, to
recover the price of three hundred bales of brown, and -of one
hundred cases of blue drills, which they had previously sold to
the defendant.
The contract for the purenase was made with the house of
Mason & Lawrence, agents of the plaintiffs, in Boston, on the
19th SKptember, 1850, and a memorandum of the same signed
by the parties. A bill of parcels was made out under date of
30th September, stating -the purchase of the goods by the defendant, carrying out prices, and footing up the amount at
$18,565.03; also the terms of payment -note at twelve months,
payable to the treasurer of the plaintiffs. This was forwarded
to the defendant on the 11th October, and in pursuance of an
order from him, the three hundred bales were sent from their establishmient at Salmon Falls by the railroad, and arrived at the
depot in Boston on the 30th October, of which notice was given
to the defendant on the same day, and a delivery tendered. He
requested that the goods should not be sent to his warehouse, or
place of delivery, for the reason, as subsequently stated by his
clerk, there was no room for storage. The agents of the plaintiffs the next day reAewed the tender of delivery by letter, adding that the goods remained at the depot at his risk, and subject
to storage, to which no answer was returned. On the night of
the 4th November, the railroad depot was consumed by fu'e, and
with it the three hundred bales of the goods in question, The
price was to be paid by a note at twelve months, which the
defendant refused to give, upon which refusal this action was
brought.

454.

SUPREME COURT.
Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

The court below, at the trial, held that the.written memorandum made at the time of entering into the contract between the
agents of the plaintiffs and the defendant, was not sufficient to
take the case out of the statute of fraudk, and as there was no
acceptance of th6 goods, the plaintiffs could not recover.
SAs we differ with the learned Judge who tried the cause, as
to. the sufficiency of the written memorandum, the question
upon the statute is the only one that it will be material to notice.
The memorandumis as follows:
" Sept. 19;-W. V. Goddard, :12 mos.
00 bales S. F. drills,
100 cases blue
do. .

.

.
.

7
8

"Credit to commence when ship sails:
not after Dec. 1st-delivered free of
charge for truckage.
"The blues, if color satisfactory to purchasers.
R. M.M.
W. w. G.

The statate of Massachusetts on this subject .is
substantially
the same as that of 29 Car. II. ch. 3, § 17, and declares that no
contratt for the sale of goods, &c., shall be valid, &c., "unless
some note or memorandum in writing of the bargain be made,
and signed by the paty to be charged thereby, or by some person thereinto by him lawfully authorized."
The word "hargain," in the statute, means the terms upon
which the respective parties contract; and in the sale of goods,
the terms of the bargain must be specified in the note or memorandum, and stated with reasonable certainty, so that they can
be understoQd from the writing itself, without having recourse
tQ parol proof, for, unless the essential terms of the sale can be
-ascertained from the writing itself, or by a reference contained
in it to something else, the memorandum is not a compliance
with the statute.
This brief note of the contract, however, like all other mci.
cantile.contracts, is subject to explanation by reference to the
usage and custom of the trade, with a view to get at the true
meaning of the parties, as each is presumed to have contracted
inreference to them. And although' specific and express provisions will control the usage, and exclude any such explanation, yet, if the terms are technical, or equivocal on the face of
the instrument, or made so by referenbe to extraneous ciricumstances, parol evidence of the usage and practice in the trade,
is adlihissible to eiplain the meaning. 2 Kent C. 566, and n. 3;
Id.260 andn.; Long on Sales, 197, ed. 1839', 1 Gale &'Davis. 52.
Extraneoihl evidence is also admissible to show that a persor
whose name is affixed to the contract, acted only as an agent,
thereby enabling the principal either to sue or be sued in 'his

DECEMBER

TERM, 1852.

455

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goadard.
own name; and this, though it purported on its face to have
been made by the agent himself, and the principal not named.
Higgins v. Senior, 8 M1. & Wels. 834; Trueman v. Loder, 11
Ad. , Ell. 589. Lord Denman observed, in the latter case,
"that parol evidence is always necessary to show that the party
sued is the party making the contract, and bound by it; whether
he does so in his own name, or in that of another, or in a feigned
name, and whether the contract be signed by his own hand (or
that of an agent) are inquiries not different in their nature from
the question, Who is the person who has just ordered goods in
a shop? If he is sued for the price, and his identity made out,
the contract is not varied by appearing to have been made by
him in a name not his own."
So.the' signature of one of the parties is a sufficient signing
to charge the firm. Soames v. Spencer, 1 D. & R. 32; Long on
Sales, 58.
It has also beeii held, in the case of a sold note which expressed " eighteen pockets of hops, at IOs.," that parol evidence
was admissible to show that the 100s. meant the price per cwt.
Spicer v. Cooper, 1 Gale & D. 52 ; 5 Jurist, 1036.
The memorandum in that case was as follows: "Solt .to
Vaite Spicer, of S. Walden, 18 pos. Kent hops, as under July
23, 1840; 10 pos. Barlow East Kent, 1839,; 8 pos. Springall
Goo'dhurst Kent, 1839, 100s. Delivered, JOHN COOPER."
Evidence was admitted on the trial to prove that the 100s.
was understood in the trade to refer to the price pei cwt., and
the ruling approved by the King's Bench. Lord Denman put a
ease to the counsel in the argument to illustrate his view, that
bears upon the case before us. Suppose, he said, the contract
had been for ten butts of beer, at one shilling, the ordinary price
of a gallon-and intimated that the meaning could hardly be
mistaken.
Now, within the principles above stated, we are of opinion
that the memorandum in question was a sfifficient compliance
with the statute. It was competent to show, by parol proof,
that Mason signed for the firm of Mason & Lawrence, and that
the house was acting as agents for the plaLtiffs, a company en,,a,ed in manufacturing the goods which were the subject of
the sale; and also to show, that the figures 71 and 8., set opposite the three hundred bales and one hundred cases of goods,
meaht seven and a quarter cents, and eight and three quarter
cents per yard.The memorandum, therefore, contains the names ot the sellers,
and of the buyer-the commodity and the price-also, the time
of credit, and conditions of the delivery; and, in the absence of
any specified time or place of delivery, the law will supply the

456

SUPREME COUR'T.
Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

omission, namely, a reasonable time after the goods are called
for, and usual place of business of the purchaser, or his customary place for the delivery of goods of this description.
In respect to the giving of the note, which was to run during
the period of the credit, it appears to be the uniform custom of
the house of Mlason & Lawrence, to take notes for goods sold
of this description. The defendant was one of their customers,
and knew this usage; and it isa presumption of law, therefore,
that th purchase was made with reference to it, there being no
stipulation to the contrary in the contract of the parties.
We are also of opinion, even admitting that there might be
some obscurity in the terms of the memorandum, and intrinsic
difficulty in a proper understanding of them, that it would be
competent, under the circumstances of the case, to refer to the
bill of parcels delivered, for the purpose of explanation. *We
do not say that it would be a note in writing, of itself sufficient
to bind the defendant within the statute; though it might be to
bind the plaintiff.
It was a bill 6f sale made out by the seller, and contained his
understanding of the terms and meaning of the contract; and
having been received by the buyer, and acquiesced in, (for the
order to have the goods forwarded was given after it was received,) the natural inference would seem to be, that the interpretation given was according to the understanding of both
parties. It is not recessary to say that this would be the conclusion, if the bill differed, materially from the written contract;
that. might present a different question; but we think it4 is so
connected with, and naturally resulting from, the transaction,
that it may be properly referred to for the purpose of explaining
any ambiguity or abbreviations, so common in these brief notes
of mercantile contracts.
A printed bill of parcels, delivered by the seller, may be a
sufficient memorandum within the statute 1:o
bind him, especially,
if subsequently recognized by a letter to. the buyer. 2 B. & P.
238 D.; 3 sp. 180. And generally the contract mdy be collected from several -distinct papers taken together, as forming
parts of an entire transaction, if they are connected by express
reierenae from the one to. the others. 3 Ad. & Ell. 355; 9 B.
& Cr.,561 ; 2 Id. 945; 3 Taunt. 169; 6 Ccw.445; 2 M. & Wels.
660;. Long on Sales, 55, and cases.
.In the case before us, the bill of parcels is not only connected
with the contract of sale, which has been signed by both parties,
but was made out and delivered iththe course of the fulfilment
of it; has .beetf acquiesced in by the buyer, and the goods ordered to be delivered after it was received, It is not a memorandum sufficient to bind him, because his name is not affixed

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

457

Salmon Falls Manuacturing Company v. God.dard.

to it by his authority; but if he had subsequently recognized it
by letter to the sellers, it might have been sufficient. 2 B. & P.
208; 2 M. & Wels. 653;.3 Taunt. 169.
But although we admit, if it was necessary for the plaintiffs
to rely upon the bill as the note or memorandum within the
statute, they must have failed, we think it competent, within the
principle of the cases on the subject, from its connection with,
and relation to, the contract, to refer to it as explanatory of any
obscurity or indefiniteness of its terms, for the purpose of removing the ambiguity.
Take, for example, as an instance, the objection that the price
is uncertain, the figures 7i and 8,, opposite the 300 bales and
100 cases of drills, given without any mark to denote what is
intended by them.
The bill of parcels carries out these figures as so many cents
per yard, and the aggregate amount footed up; 'and after it is
received by the defendant, and with a knowledge of this explanation, he orders the goods to be forwarded.
We cannot doubt but that the bill, under such circumstances,
aff ids competent evidence of the meaning to be given to this
part of the written memorandum. And so, in respect to any
other indefinite or abbreviated item to be found in this brief note
of a mercantile contract.
For these reasons, we are of opinion, that the judgment of
the court below, must be reversed, and the proceedings remitted,
with. directions to award a venire de izovo.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice
CURTIS, dissented.
DANIEL, JustiCe, dissenting.

Upon the point made in this case, on the Statute of Frauds, I
entirely concur in the exposition of the law just announced by
the court. With. respect, however, to the proceedings ordered
by this court to be taken in this case in the Circuit Court, I am
constrained to dissent from the decision of my brethren. My
opinion is, that under the 2d section of the 3d article of the
Constitution, the courts of the United States could not, take
cognizance of the controversy between these parties; and that
therefore the proper direction to the Circuit Court would have
been to dismiss this suit for want of jurisdiction. My reasons,
for the conclusion here expressed, having.been given in detail in
the case of Rundle et al. v. The Delaware and Raritan Canal
Cdmpany, during the present term, it is unnecessary to repeat
them on this occasion.
VOL. XIV.

39

458

SUPREM1E COURT.
Salmon Fal13 Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

Mr. Justice CURTIS.
I have the misfortune to differ"from the majority of my brethren, in this case, and, as the question is cne which enters into
the daily business of merchants, and at the same time involves
the construction of a statute of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, I think it proper to state, briefly, the grounds on which
I rest my opinion.
The first question is, whether the writing of the 19th of September is a sufficient memorandum within the 3d section of the
74th chapter of the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts. The
writing is in these words and figures.
" Sept. 19. W. W. Goddard, 12 mos.
300 bales S. F. drills
74,
100 cases blue
"
.
83.
Cr. to commence when ship sails; not after Dec'r 1st; delivered free of charge for truckage.
R. r. i.
W. IVY.G.

The blues, if col6r is satisfactory to purchaser."
Does this writing show, upon its face, and without resorting
to extraneous evidence, that W. W. Goddard was the purchaser
of these goods? I think not. Certainly it does not so state in
terms, nor can I perceive howthe fact can be collected from the
paper, by any certain intendment. It it be assumed that a sale
was made, and that Goddard was a party to the transaction,
what is there, on the face of the paper, to *show whether Goddard sold or bought? Extraneous evidence that he was the
seller, would be just as consistent with this writing, as extraneous evidence that he was the purchaser. - Suppose the fact had
been, that Mason was the purchaser, and that the writing might
be explained by evidence of that fact; it would then be read
that Goddard sold to Mason, on twelve months' credit; and
this evidence would be consistent with every thing which the
paper contains, because the paper is wholly silent as to the fact
whether he was the seller.or the purchaser. In Bailey et al. v.
Ogden, (3 Johns. Rep. 398,) an action for not accepting sugars,
the memorandum was:
"14 December.
J. Ogden & Co.-Bailey & Bogart.
Brown,
White, 121,
16k.) ) o 60 and 90 days.
Debenture part pay."
Mr. Justice Kent, who deliverea he opinien of the court, enumerating the objections to the memorandum, says, no person can
ascertain, from this memorandum, which of the parties was
seller, and which buyer; and I think it would be difficult to

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

459

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

show that the memorandum now in question is any more intel.
ligible, in reference to this fact.
Indeed, I do not understand it is supposed, that, in the absence
of all extraneous evidence, it could be determined by the court,
as matter of law, upon an inspection of the paper alone, that
Goddard was the purchaser of fhese goods.. The real inquiry
is, whether extraneous evidence of this fact is admissible.
Now, it is true, the statute requires only some note, or memorandum, in writing, of the bargain; but I consider it settled,
that this writing must show who is vendor, and who is purchasei.
In Champion v. Plumer, (1 B. & P. New Rep. 252,) the memorandum contained the name of the vendor, a description of
the goods, and their price, and was signed by the vendee; yet it,
was held that the vendee could not maintain an action thejeon,
because it did not appear, from the writing, that.he was vendee,
though it was clearly proved by parol.
In Sherburn et al. v. Shaw, (1 N. H. Rep. 157,) the plaintiffs
caused certain real estate to be sold At auction, and the defendant, being the highest bidder, signed a memorandum, agreeing
to take the property; this memorandum was written on a paper,
headed, "Articles of sale of the estate of Jonathan Wtrner,
deceased," containing the terms of the sale; and this paper was
also signed by the auctioneer. Yet the court, through Mr. Justice
Woodbury, who delivered the opinion, held that, as the paper
failed to show that the plaintiffs were the vendors, it was radically defective. Here, also, there was no doubt that the plaintiffs were the vendors, but extraneous evidence to supply this
fact *as considered inadmissible.
It seems to me that the fact that the defendant was the purchaser, is, to say the least, as necessary to be stated in the writing as any other fact, and that to allow it to be proved by parol,
is to violate the intent of the statute, and encounter the very
mischiefs which it was enacted to prevent Chancellor Kent,
(2 Com. 511,) says, " the contract must, howevef, be stated with
reasonable certainty, so that it can be understood from the writing itself, without having recourse to parol proof." And this
position rests upon a current of authorities, both in England
and America, which it is presumed are not intended to be disturbed. But how can the contract be understood from the writing itself, when that fails to state which party is vendor and
which purchaser?
I am aware that a latent ambiguity in a contract may be removed by extraneous evidence, according to the rules of the
common law; and that such evidence is also admissible to show
'what in point of fact, was the subject-marter called for by the
terms of a contract. Bradlee v. Steam P. Co. 16 Pet. 98. So

460

SUPREME CQURT.
Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

when an act has been done by a person, and it is doubtful
whether he acted in a private or official ca-acity., it is allowable
to prove by parol that he was an agent and acted as such. But
these cases fall far short of proving that when a statute requires
a contract to be in writing, you may prove by parol the fact
that the defendant was purchaser, the writing being silent as to
that fact; or that a writing, which does not state who is ;'endor
and'Who purchaser, does contain in itself the essentials of a
contract of sale.
It is one thing to construe what is writfen; it is a very different thing to supply a substantive fact not stated in the writing. It is one thing to determine the meaning and effect of a
complete and valid written contract, and it is another thing to
take a writing, which on its face imports no contract, and make
it import one by parol evidence. It is one thing to show'that
a party, who appears by a writing to have made a contract,
made it as an agent, and quite a differernt thing to prove by
"parol that he made a purchase when the writing is silent as to
that- fact. The duty and power of the court is a duty and
power to give a construction to what is written, and not in any
case to permit it to be added to by parol." Least of all when a
statute has required the essential requisites of a contract of sale
to be in writing, is it admissible, in my judgment, to allow the
fact, that the defendant made a purchase, to be proved by parol.
If this fact, which lies at the basis of the action and to which
every other is but incidental, can be prbved by evidence out of
the writing signed by the defendant, the statute seems to me to
be disregarded.
-It has been argued that the.bill of parcels, sent to Goddard by
Mason and Lawrence, and received by hinm, -may be resorted to
for the purpose of showing he was the purchaser. But it is
certainly the law of Massachusetts, where this contract was
made, ahd the case tried, as I believe it is of most other States,
and of England, that-unless the memorandum which is signed
c~ntains a reference to some other paper, no paper, not signed
by the party to be charged, can be connected with the memoandun, or used- to supply any defect therein.. Thih wa held
in Morton et al. v. Dean, (13 Met. R.385,) a case to which I shall
have occasion more fully to refer hereafter. And in conformity
therewith, Chancellor Kent lays down the rule in 2 Com. 511,
and refers to many authorities in support of it. I am not dware
that any court has held otherwise.
'That this bill of parcels was of itself a sufficient memorandum under the statute, or that it was a paper signed by the defendant, or by any person by him thereunto lawfully authorized,
I'do not understand td be held by the majority of the court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

461

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

Now the iemorandum oi the 19th September, is either sufficient or insufficient, under the statute. If the former, there is
no occasion to resort to the bill of parcels to show who was
vendor, and who purchaser; because, if the latter, it cannot,
consistently with the statute, be made good by another paper
not signed, and connected with it only by parol. To charge a
party upon an insufficient memorandum, added to by another independent paper, not signed, would be to charge him when there
was no sufficient memorandum signed by him, and therefore in
direct conflict with the statute. It does not seem to me to be
an answer, to say that the bill of parcels was made out pursuant
to the memorandum. If the signed memorandum itself does
not contain the essentials of a contract of sale, and makes no
referenc6 to any other paper, in no legal sense is any other paper
pursuant to it-nor can any other paper be connected with it,
save by parol evidence, vhich the statute forbids. In point of
fact, it wvould be difficult to imagine any two independent papers
more nearly connected, than a memorandum made and signed
by an auctioneer, and the written conditions read by him at.
the sale. Yet it is settled, that the latter caninot be referred to,,
unless expressly called for by the very terms of the signed memorandum. Upon what principle does a bill of parcel stand
upon any better ground?
The distinction, heretofore, has been between papers caned
for by the memorandum by express reference, and those not
called for; this decision, for the -first time, I believe, disregards
that distinction, and allows an unsigned "papei, not referred to,
to be used in evidence to charge the purchaser.
In my judgment, this memorandum was defective in not
showinN who was vendor, and who purchaser, and oral evidence
to supply this defect was not admissible.
But if this difficulty could be oveacome, or if it had appeared
on the face of the paper, that Goddard was the purchaser, still,
in my judgment, there is no sufficient memorandum. I take it
to be. clearly settled, that if the court. cannot ascertain from the
paper itself, or from some other paper therein referred to, the
essential terms of the sale, the writing does not take the case
out of the statute. This has been so often decided, that it is
sufficient to refer to 2 Kent's Com. 511, where many of the cases
are collected.
The rule stated by the Chancellor, as a just deduction from
the authorities, is, " Unless the essential terms of the sale can
be ascertained from the writing itself, or by a reference contained
in it to something else, the writing is not a compliance with the
statute; and if the agreement be thus defective, it cannQt be
supplied by parol proof, for that would at once introduce all the
.39"

SUPREME C

URT.

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Comps.ny v. Goddard.

mischiefs which the statute of frauds and perjuries was intended
to prevent."
The statute, then, requires the essential terms of the sale to
be in -writing; the credit to be allowed to the purchaser is one
of the terms of the sale.
And if the memorandum shows that a credit was to be given,
but does not fix its termination, it is fatally defective, for the
court cannot ascertain, from the paper, when a right of action
accrues to the vendee, and the contract shown by the paper is
not capable of being described in a declaration. The rights of
the parties, in an essential particular, are left undetermined by
the paper. This paper shows there was to be a credit of six
months, and contains this clause- "Cr. to commence when
ship sails: not after Dec'r 1st." According to this paper, wheni
when ship sails, if
is this credit to commence? The answer is,
before December 1st. What ship? The paper is silent
This is an action against Goddard for not delivering his nofe
on twelve months' credit, and it is an indispensable inquiry, on
what day, according.to the contract, the note should bear date.
The plaintiffs must aver, in their declaration, what note Goddard was bound to deliver, and the memorandum must enable
the court to say that the description of the notes in the declaration is, correct. They attempt this by averring, in the declaration, that the contract was for a note payable in twelve months
from the sailing of a ship called the Crusader, and that this ship
sailed on the sixth day of November. But the writing does -not
refer to the. Crusader; and if oral evidence were admissible to
prove that the parties referred to the Crusader, this essential
term of their contract is derived from parol proof, contrary to
the requirement of the-statute. It was upon this ground the
case of Morton 6t al. v. Dean, and many other similar cases,
have been decided. In that case, there was a memorandum
signed by the auctio.neer, as the agent of both parties, containing
their names, as vendor and vendee, the price to b paid, ond a
sufficient description of the property. But it appeared that
there were written or printed conditions read at the sale, but not
referred to irthe memorandum, containing the terms of credit,
&c., and therefore that the memorandum did not fix all the
essential parts of the bargain, and it was held insufficient.
But, further; even if oral evidence were admissible to show
that the parties had in view some particular vessel, and so to
explain or render certain the memorandum, no such evidence
was offered, and no request to leave that qu.estion of fact to the
jury, was :made. Mason, who made the contrapt with Goddard, was a witness, but he does not pretend the parties had
any particular vessel in view, still less that they agreed oh the

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.
Salmon Falls Ma
iufacturing Company v. Goddard.

Crusader as the vessel, the sailing of which was to be the commencement of the credit. I cannot perceive, therefore, how
either of the counts in this declaration is supported by the evidence, or how a different verdict could have lawfully been rendered.
The count for goods sold and delivered, wa's clearly not
maintained, because, when the action was brought, the credit
had not expired, even if it began. on the 19th of September.
One of the special counts avers, that the notes were to be due
twelve months from the 80th of September; but this is incon.
sistent with the written memorandum, and there is no evidence
to support it. The other special counts all declare for a note
due twelve months after the sailing of the Crusader, but,
as already stated, there is no evidence whatever to support
this allegation, and a verdict of the jury, affirnuing such a contract., must have been set aside.
It may be added, also, that no one of the prayers for.instructions, containe I in the bill of exceptions,zmakes the fact that the
parties had reference to the Crusader, any element of the contract, but that each of them asks for an instruction upon the
assumption that this necessary term of the contract had not
been in .any way supplied.
I consider the language of Chief Justide Marshall, in Grant v.
Naylor, (4 Cranch, 234,) applicable to this case. That great
Judge says: "Already have so many cases been taken out of
the statfite of frauds, -which seem to be within its letter, that it
may well be doubted whether the exceptions do not let in many
of tile mischiefs against which the rule was intended to guard.
The best Judges in England have been of opinion that this relaxing construction of the statute ought not to be extended
further than it has already been carried, and this court entirely
concurs in that opinion."
I am authorized to state that Mr. Justice CATRON concurs
in this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgmnent of the said Circuit Court in this -cause be, and
the same is hereby, revers'ed, with costs, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded'to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

