DECEM1BER TERM,

1852.

3

Ex parte Taylor.

But in this case the decree was not suspended. It was final
from its date. An appeal had been regularly taken from it,
and an appeal-bond given. And the case has come up to this
court upon that appeal. There is no ground, ther6fore, for saying, that the first decree was not final until, the motion was
overruled. It is now before this court upon the first appeal;
and the second appeal, although it professes to be an appeal
from the original decree, as well as from the subsequent order,
could not act on the original decree, which was already removed;
and the validity of this last appeal must rest altogether on the
refusal to open and rehear. And, as an appeal will not lie from
the decision of such a motion, the appeal, so far as concerns
the order on the petition for a rehearing, and the refusal of the
Circuit Court to grant the same, must be dismissed.
The first appeal was, however, regularly faken, and the case
will stand for hearing when it is reached in the regular call of
the docket. And, as it is now presented by the record, we
see no ground for a mandate to the Circuit Court. 'No application has been made to it to carry the decree into execution;
or to stay proceedings in it pending this appeal. We are
bound to presume that the court below will do whatever may
be right in the premises, if the subject is properly brought before
it. And we cannot, in advance, undertake to guide their judgment by a mandate.
The motion for an order on the Circuit Court, to proceed to
carry the decree into execution, is tlerefore overruled.

Ex PARTE

DAVID TAYLOR.

A rule will be refiLsed for the judges of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia to show cauft why a mandamus should not issue, unless a case is presented
which prird icic requires the interposition of this court.

Such a cdU i3 not presented where the Circuit Court decided that, under an act of
Congress, an affidavit was sufficient to hold a party to special bail. That court had
the power, by the avt, to exercise its judicial discretion.
Thi' act of Congress regulated the subject, and not the statute of Maryland, passed
in 1715.

THIS case came before the court, upon the following motion
and petition:x parte

DAVID T

R

(Petition for a Mandamus to the Judges of the
Circuit.,Court of the District of Columbia,
for Washington County.

The above petitioner moves the honorable the Judges of the

4

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Tayior.

Supreme Court of the United States, for a rule on the Judges
of the Circuit Court of the District of Cclumbia for Washington County, to show cause why a mandamus should not issue
commanding them to admit the appearance of the petitioner to
a suit in said court, by Thomas Ewing, Jr., against said petitioner; and the petitioner moves for the said rule on his petition, and the transcript therewith filed.
1. Because there is no legal cause of bail set forth in the proceedings in said suit, and by the refusal bf the Circuit Court to
allow his appearance to be entered to said suit, he is unlawfully
detained in custody by the marshal of said district.
2. Because the act of Maryland, passed in 1715, c. 46, 3,
is in force in the county of Washington, and nowise repealed,
and the petitioner was by virue of said a.t entitled to appear
to said suit, on giving special bail in the surn of one hundred
and thirty-three dollars thirty-three and a third cents. But the
court refused to allow him so to appear, or to enter bail in said
amoufit.
3. Because the petitioner has a legal right tO appear without
bail, o" upon giving bail to the amount reouired by the act of
1715, c. 46, ยง 3, nd thereby to be discharged from prison, and
the said legal right does not depend on the discretion of the
court. but is fixed and regulated by law, and there is other legal
remea, for the petitioner in the premises.
ROBERT J. BRENT,for Petitioner.
To the Judges of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The petition of David Taylor respectfully showeth, that he
is now confined in the jail in the city of Washington, at the
suit -of a certain Thomas Ewing, Jr., and he refers to the
accompanying transcript of the record of said suit, and makes
the same a part of this petition,.for the better understanding of
the proceedings under which he is now unjustly and oppressivel3
detained in prison.
Your petitioner showeth, that by said record it appears he
was held to bail in said suit, upon the affidavit of said Ewing,
and without a. copy of the declaration be'ng served on him, as
required by the act of the legislature of Maryland of 1715,
c. 46, ยง 3.
That, at the return of the writ of capi.s ad resJ)ondcnduzm,
issued in said cause, your petitioner moved to enter his appearance without giving special bail, because of the alleged insulliciency of the affidavit to hold to bail, but said motion was overruled by the Cirauit Court of the District of Columbia for
Washington County. That, thereupon, your petitioner moved
to enter his appearance to said suit, upon giving good and

DECEMBER

TERI,

1852.

5

Ex parte Taylor.
sufficient special bail, in the sum of one hundred and thirty-three
dollars and thirty-three and one third cents, because of the omission to serve your petitioner with a copy of the declaration,
according to the terms of the aforesaid act of 1715, c. 40, ยง 3;
and your petitioner then and there tendered in open court good
and sufficient bail, in the last-mentioned sum of money. The
sufficiency of said bail for said amount was fully admitted by said
court, as will appear by reference to said transcript of the record;
but the court overruled said application upon the express ground
that your petitioner was bound to enter special bail to said
action, in the amount of the sum. sworn to in the affidavit of
said Ewing, which sum is shown in said affidavit to be four
thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars. Your petitioner
is advised that the aforesaid recited act of the legislature of
Maryland is in full force in Washington county aforesaid; and
that, under and by virtue of said law, it was the duty of the
marshal to require no greater appearance-bail, and of the court
to require no greater special bail than the amount specified in
said act, where no copy of the declaration is sent to be served
with the writ; and your petitioner is also advised, that there is
in said affidavit no legal cause of bail whatever. Wherefore,
inasmuch as the said Circuit Court has refused both of said
app.ications for an appearance on the part of your petitioner to
said suit, and as the law provides no other adequate remedy in
the premises, whereby your petitioner can, before the final determination of said suit, regain his personal liberty, whereof
he is now illegally and unjustifiably deprived, your petitioner
prays that the writ of mandamus may be issued and directed
to the Judges of said Circuit Court, commanding and enjoining
thera to receive the appearance of-your petitioner to said action,
either without requiring special bail,'or upon your petitioner
causing good and sufficient special bail to be entered to said
action, in the sum of one hundred and thirty-three dollars and
thirty-three cents and one third of a cent.
And, as in duty bound, your petitioner will ever pray, &c.
ROBERT J. BRENT, for Petitioner.

Districtcf Columbia, Washington County, to wit:
Before the subscriber, a justice of the peace of the Distric
of Colup-bia, in and for Washington county, personally appears David Taylor, the within petitioner, and made oath on
the Holy Evangely of Almighty God, that the facts, as stated
in the said petition, are true, to the best of his knowledge and
J. W, BE K, J P.
belief.
Dec. 10, 1852.

SUPREME COURTEx parte Tzylor.

District of Columbia, ss.
At a Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, begun and
held in and for the county of Washington, at the city of Washington, on the third Monday of October, being the eighteenth
day of the same month, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-two, and of the independence of the
United States the seventy-seventh.
Present,
WILLIAM CRANCH, Chief Tud-e.
THE HoNi. JAMEs S. MO.R$tLL, and Assistant
JAXEsDUNrLOP,
Judg-es.
RICHARD WALLACH, Esquire, M11arshal.
JOHN A. SMITH, Clerk.
In the recirds of proceedings of the said court, amongst others,
are the following, to wit:THOMAS EWING, J.

)

V.

DAVID TAYLOR.

Be it remembered, to wit, on the 4th day of October, 1852,
the said plaintiff, by Charles S. Wallach, Esquire, his attorney,
prosecuted and sued forth out of the Circuit Court here, the
United States writ of capias ad respondenduin, directed to the
marshal of the District of Columbia, in form following, to
wit: District of Columbia, to wit:
The United States of America, to the Mashal of the District
of Columbia, Greeting:
We command you, that you take David Taylor, late of
Washington county, if he shall be found Within the county of
Washington, in your said district, and him ?ely keep, so that
you have his body before the Circuit Court Of the District of
Columbia, to be held for the county aforesaid, at the city of
Washington, on the 3d Monday of October instant, to answer
unto Thomas Ewing, Jr., in a plea of trespass on the case, and
so forth.
Hereof fall not at your peril, and have you therf and there
this widt.
Witness WILLIAM CRA CH, Esq., ChiefJudge of our said court,
at the city of Washington, the 22d day of May, Anno Domini
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two.
Issued this 4th day of October, 1852.
Wallach.
JNo. A. SMITH, Clerk.

-DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

Exc parto Taylor.

District of Columbia, Washington Countv/, to wic:
And the aforesaid plaintiff, on the day of prosecuting and
suing forth of the aforegoilig writ, ddclared against the said
defendant in the plea aforesaid, 'in the form following, to
wit:Districtof Columbia, Washington County, to wit:
David Taylor, late o the county aforesaid, was attached tW
answer unto Thomas Ewing, Jr., in a ple-a of trespass on the
case, !Lnd so forth. And whereupon the said plaintiff, by Charles
S. Wallach, his attorney, complains that, whereas the defendant, on the first day.of September, in the year eighteen hundred
and fifty-two, at the county aforesaid, was indebted to the
plaintiff in the sum of fou*r thousand nine hundred and seventy
dollars, current money of the United States, for sundry matters
and articles, properly chargeable in an nccount, as by a particular ac'count thereof herewith into 2ourt exhibited, -appears.
And being so indebted, the defendant, in consideration thereof,
afterwards, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, of the county
aforesaid, undertook, and faithfully promised to the said plaintiff,
to pay him the aforesaid sum of money, when, he shoiild be
thereto afterwards required.
And whereas, also, the defendant, on the first day of September, in the year eighteen hundred and fifty-tVo,- at the
county aforesaid, was indebted to the plaintiff in the further
sum of f9ur thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars, for
work and labor done and performed by the plaintiff for the
defendant, at his special request; and in the further sum of four
thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars, for money received
by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff; and in the further
sum of four thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars, for
money lenjiand advanced by the plaintiff to the defendant, at
his, the defendant's, request; and in the further sum of four
thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars, for money paid,
laid out, and expended, by the plaintiff for the use. of the defendant, at his, the defendant's, request; and being'so indebted,
the defendant afterwards, that is to say, on the day and year
aforesaid, at the county aforesaid, in consideration thereof, undertook, and then and there faithfully promised to the said
plaintiff, that he the defendant, the said several sums of money,
when required, would well and truly pay to the plaintiff.
And whereas, the defendant afterwards, that is to say, on the
first day of September, in the year aforesaid, at the county
aforesaid, abcounted with the plaintiff, of and concerning di&vers
sums of money, from the said defendant to the. plaintiff due,

SUPREME COU]T.

8

Ex parte Taylor:

owing, then in arrear and unpaid; and r:pon such accounting,
the said defendant was then and there found in arrear, and indebted to the said plaintiff the further sum of four thousand
nine hundred and seventy dollars; and being so found in arrear
abid indebted, the said defendant afterwards, that is to say, on
the day and .year last mentioned, at the county aforesaid, in
consideration thereof, undertook, and thef and there faithfully
promised to pay to the plaintiff, when thereto afterwards required, the said last-mentioneaI sum of money.
Nevertheless, the defendant said promises in nowise regarding, the said several sums of money, or any part thereof, though
often required, to the plaintiff has not paid, but the same to
pay has always refused, and still refuses, to the damage of the
plaintiff, in the sum of ten thousand dollars, and therefore he
brings suit, &c.
CHARLES S. W.TALLACH,
For the Plaintiff
The said plaintiff, by his attorney aforesaid, at the time of
prosecuting and suing forth the said writ, also filed the following affidavit to hold to bail, to wit :
District of Columbia, lfashngton County, to wit:
THOWIAS EW.ING, JR.)
V.
DAVID TAYLOR.

on this fourth day of October, 1852, personally appeared before me, the subscriber, a justice of the peace, in and for the
county and district aforesaid, Joseph T. Coombs$ of the county
and district aforesaid, 'agent for the plaintiff in the above cause,
and made oath on the Holy Evangely oi Almighty God, that
David Taylor, a resident of the State of North Carolina, defendant in the above cause, is indebted to the said plaintiff in
the full and just sum of four thousand nine hundred and seventy
dollars, for moneys due upon a certain agreement or contract
herewith filed, and for work and labor done at his, the said Ddvid
Taylor's, special instance and request, in the district and countyaforesaid, a particular account whereof is herewith filed. And
that the said Taylor, being now in the said county and district,
is about to remove from and go out of %aid county and district,
ard remove his property, rights, and credits from said county and
district, witha view and in order to avoid the payment of the said
-debt, as this affiant verily believes, and that said debt was con-'
tra6fed in said county and district by the said David Taylor;
and that said work and labor were done and performed in the
said county and district by the said plairtiff, bbtween the 8th

DECEMBER TERM,

9

1852.

Ex parte Taylor.

day of March, 1850, and the first day of September, 1852, at
his, the said David Taylor's, special instance and request.
J. T. COOMBS.
II. NAYLO , X P.
Subscribed and sworn before me.
4th October, 1852.
Agreement referred to i& the aforegoi)g Affidavit.
Contract made and concluded on the twenty-eighth day of
March, A. D. 1851, by and between Thomas Ewing, Junior,
formerly of Ohio, and David Taylor, formerly of North Carolina,
in behalf of himself and his wife and childien, in these words: The said party of the first part, covenants and.agrees to prosecute before Congress, or before the public departments of the
general government, the claim of the said party of the second
part, and that of his wife and children, under the Cherokee
treaty of 135 -6, to the appraised value of a resdrvation of
640 aeres of land, lying in Ihe State of Tennessee, which said
claim was before the Committee of Indian Affairs of the -Senate at -the last session of Congress; anql further, that the said
party of the first part, will use pioper diligence in the prosecution of the said claim, and at no time will let the interests bf
the said party of the second part suffer by want of a -proper
degree of attention to the claim, on his part, unless prevented
from rendering it -by sickness or -some -other unavoidable aiid
unforeseen necessity.
'And the said party of the second part, in consideration of
the valuable services which the said party of the first part has
already rendered in the prosecution of the said claim; arid in
further consideration of the agreement which the said party of
the first pait herein makes, to conhnne to prosecute the claim
until it is finally allowed and paid, hereby covenants and agrees
to pay unto the said party of the first part the sum of twent
per centum upon the amount of sdd claim, whenever the sine
may be allowed; and if at any time a part of it only is allowed
then the said party of the second part covenantq and agrees to
pay unto Ihe said party of the first part, a like per centage -upon
the sttm allowed.
And for the true and faithful pertormanct of all the agreements above mentioned, the parties to these presents bind them'selves, eaeh unto the other, in fhe penal sum of -ive thousand dollars, as Iixed and settled'damages, to be paid by the failing.party.
In testimony whereof,'the parties to these presents have here
unto set their hands and aflixed their seals, the day and year
Tao. EWING, Jr. [sEj .]
first above written.
his

D.VID

x'TAYLOR

msrk.-

fsLAL.I

SUPREME

COURT

Ex parte Taylor.

The within .contract was read by me i Mr. Taylor, before
signing it, and he declared himself fully satisfied with the conditions herein expressed.
Signed, sealed, and delivered in my presence, this 28th day
of March, A. D. 1851.
W. I. COLLEDGE.
A copy of which said affidavit was made, and sent with the
writ aforesaid to the marshal of the district aforesaid, thereon
indorsed, to wit., "To be served on the defendant with the
writ."
Account referred to in the foregoing .Affidavit, to wit:
Washington, Sept. 1st, 1851.
Mr. David Taylor, Dr. to Thomas Ewing, Jr.
To commission, 20 per cent., on $24,853.04, amount'allowed
-on your claim against United States, under Cherokee Trea y
of 1835, for work and labor done and performed in obtaining
said allowance, and as per agreement
.
$4970.O
At which mentioned third Monday of October, in the year
6ghteen hundred and fifty-two, and the day of thb return of
the aforegoing writ, comes again into the Circuit Court here,
the said plaintiff, by his attorney aforesaid; and the marshal of
the district aforesaid, to whom the said writ was in form aforesaid directed, makes return, thereof to the court thus indorsed,
to wit, " Cepi in jail. R. Wall ach, Marshal."
And now, to wit, on the
day of November, A. D. 1852, in
open court, appears David Taylor,'in custody of the marshal
,of the district aforesaid, and moves the court here that he be
permitted to enter a common appearance to the said writ of the
said Thomas Ewing, Jr.; and at the same time the said-David
Taylor, by his attorney, Robert J. Brent, iEsq., offered to-appear
to said writ, and to defend the same ; but -the court refused to
allow the said David Taylor to appear 1-o said writ until he
should give special bail, to the amount of indebtedness sworn
to in the affidavit of said Thomas Ewing, Jr., filed in this
cause. And thereupon the said David Taylor, so being in open
court, prayed the court to take special bail for him in this action,
to the. amount of one hundred and thirty-three dollars thirtythree and one third cents. And at the same time appeared'in
open court John Frederick May and Joseph L. Williams, residents of the District of Columbia, who, with the consent of the
said David Taylor, offered to enter themselves as special bail
for the said David Taylor, and to justify in double the -said last
amount; but the court, in nowise denying the sufficiency of
said bail as offered, refused to accept or take special bail for

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

11

Ex parte Taylor.

any amount less than the amount sworn to by said Thomas
Ewing, Jr., as aforesaid; and the said David Taylor declining
to give or offer bail to the amount required by the court, he is
thereupon ordered and remanded by the court to the custody of
the marshal of the District of Columbia.
Test.
JOHN A. SIMIITH, Clerk.
District of Columbia, Washington County, to wit:
1, John A. Smith, Clerk of the Cijcuit Court of the Distript of
Columbia, for the county of Washington, hereby certify that the
aforegoing is a full and perfect transcript of all the proceedings
had in the said court, in the said case of Thomas Ewing, Jr.,
against David Taylor, as appears from the minutes of the proceedings of said court.
Iln testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name,
and affixed the seal of said court, this 10th December, 1852.
[SEAL.]

JNO. A.

SMITH,

Clerk.

It appears, in this case, that a suit was brought in th 9 Circuit
the DisCourt of the United States for Washington County, in'
trict of Columbia, by Thomas Ewing, Jr., against David Taylor,
to recover a sum of money which he alleged to be due to him,
upon a contract which is set forth in the proceedings, and also
for services rendered to Taylor at his instance and request.
The writ issued on the 4th of October, 1852, returnable to
the October term, which began on the third Monday of the
same month. And at the time of issuing the writ, the plaintiff
filed his declaration containing the usual money counts, and
also an affidavit stating the amount due, and the nature of his
claim; that the debt was contracted in Washington county, in
the District of Columbia, and that Taylor, being then in said
county and district, was about to remove from it, and remove
his property, rights, and credits, in order to avoid the payment
of this debt.
The marshal arrested Taylor, and made his return upun the
writ" Cepi in jail;" and thereupon Taylor appeared in court,
in the custody of the marshal, and, by his counsel, moved for
leave to appear on common bail.- But the court refused to permit him to appear and to discharge him from custody, until he
should give bail to the amount of the debt sworn to in the affidavit of the plaintiff. Taylor then moved for leave to appear,
upon giving bail in the sum of-one hundred and thirty-three
dollars thirty-three and a third cents, claiming that he was entitled fo be discharged upon giving bail to that amount, under
the act of Assembly of 'Maryland of 1715, 'which act, together
with the other laws of Maryland in force when the United

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Taylor.

States assumed jurisdiction over this district, were adopted by
Congress as the laws of Washington county.
But the Circuit Court adhered to its decision, and refused to
permit the party to appear, without giving bail to the amount
affidavit.
claimed in the plaintifi's
Upon this state of the cafse, Taylor moves for a rule on the
Judges of the Circuit Court to show cause why a mandamus
shall not be issued from this court, commanding the Judges of
the Circuit Court to permit Taylor -to appear to the abovementioned suit on common bail, in order that he may be discharged from the custody of the marshal; -and failing that
motion, then to show cause why he phould not be permitted to
appear, upon giving bail to the amount of one hundred and
thirty-three dollars and thirty-three and one third cents, under
the provisions of the Maryland law.
Afccording to the established practice of this court, a rule of
this kind is not granted as a matter of course, and the inferior
court is never called on to show cause, unless a case is presented
which primdfacie requires the interposition of this vourt. It
was so settled in the case of the Postmaster-General v. Trig,
Administrator of Rector, 11 Pet. 173.
We proceed, then, to inquire whether such a case has been
presented to support this motion.
The proceedings by which Taylor was arrested and hela in
custody, were under the act of Congress of August lst,' 1842,
(5 Stat. at Large, 498.) This act providcs that no person shall
be held to bail in any suit in the Distric; of Columbia, unless
upon such an affidavit as is described in the law, which must be
filed previously to the issuing of the writ.
It is insisted, on behalf of Taylor, ihat he was entitled to his
discharge from custody upon entering an appearance by his
attorney to the suit, becatise, as he alleges, the affidavit filed in
the suit does not conform to the provisions of the act of Congress, and therefore was not sufficient, under that law, to justify
the court in demanding bail.
But that is a question which this court cannot consider. The
act af Congress provides that the sufliciency of the ,tlidavit to
hold to bail, and the amount of 'bail to be given shall, upon ap.
plication of the defendant, be decided by the court in term time,
and by. a single judge in vacation. in (lecidiig upon tlhe application to discharge Taylor from the custoiy of the marshal, the
court must necessarily have considered and interpreted ihe act
of Congress, as well as the alfidavit, and determined whether
the 41lidavit was sufficient or not. And certainly, even in Eng
land, the iKing's Bench never claimed or exercised the power to
issue a mandamus to an inferior court of record. eonimanding

DECEMBEIR TERM, 1852.
Moore v. The People of the State of Illinois.

it to reverse its judgnment, in a matter where the law authorized
it to judge. In the case before us, the power of deciding on the
sultieiey of the affidavit, and the amount of bail, is a part of
the judicial power of the court. It has exercised this power,
and passed its judgment. We do not mean to say that this
judgment is in any respect erroneous. But, assuming it to be
so, this court cannot, by mnandamuns, command them to reverse
it. The writ has never been extended so far, nor ever used to
control the discretion and judgment of an inferior court of
record acting within the scope of its judicial authority. There
is no -round, therefore, for the rule under the act of Congress.
The application under the Maryland act of 1715, is equally
untenable. The provision in that act relied on in support of
the motion, was never held in Maryland to apply to any thing
but the bail-bonds to be taken by the sheriff in certain cases,
and never influenced the decision of the courts as -to the amount
of bail to be required when the defendant was brought into
court. But it is unnecessary to speak of that act, or of'the
construction it received in the courts of Maryland; because
the right of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court to demand bail
depends altogether upon the act of Congress. And if there is
any discrepancy between this act and the act of Assembly of
1715, the act of Congress must govern, and is a repeal pro.tanto
of the Maryland law.
The rule to show cause is therefore refused.

THO.MNAS MOORE, EXECUTOR
ERROR, V.

THE PEOPLE

OF RICHARD
O'

EELS, PLAINTIFF

THE STATE

IN

OF ILLINOIS.

A State, under its general and admitted power to define and punish offences against
its own peace and policy, may repel from its boiders an unacceptable population,
whether paupcr.. criminals, fugitives, or lilberated slaves: and, consequentlv, may
Punish her citizens and othrs who thwart this policy, by harboring, secreAing, or
in any way assi~ting such fugitives.
It is no objection to such lecilation that the offender may be liable to punishment
under the act of Congress tbr the same acts, when injurious to the owner oft the
fugitive slave.

The cace of' Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. (16 Peters, 539,) presented
the following question% which were decided by the court:
1. That under and in virtue of the Constitution of the United States, the owner of a
slave is clothed with entire authority in every State in the Union, to seize and recapture his slave, wherever he can do it without illegal violence or a breach of the
peace.

2. That the government of the United States is clotheo with appropriate authority
and functions to enforce the delivery, on claim of the owner, and has properly ex-

ercised it in the act of Congress of 12th February, 1793.
VOL. XIV.

2

