SUPREME COURT.
Winder v. Caldwell.

and such commissions, as administrator, as the Orphans' Court
may legally allow.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
sums of money and stock, so decreed to be paid and transferred
'by the abov.e-named defendants, be paid an-d transferred to the
above-named complainants, Hippolitus Estho, Roman Estho,
Louisa Narbut, Vlandislaus Wankowiez, Hippolitus Wankowiez, Adam Bychowiec, and Michael Szyrma, in the proportions
stated and adjudged in the preceding fourth clause of this
decree.
Eig'hth.. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
decrees pro confesso against Roman E;stho, Louisa Narbut,
born Estho, Thadea Emilie Wilchelmnine Zeltner, Maria Charlotte Julia Marguerette Zeltner, Bonnisant Pere, General Baszkoyski, Emilie Zeltner, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Zeltner, Zavier
Amieth, Dr. She~rer, Miss Ursula Zeltner, and Kosciusko Armstrong, by the said Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed.
And lastly. It is ordpred, adjudged, and decreed, that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, witl directions to that court to carry the aforesaid decree
of this court into effect.

WILLIAM,

H.

WINDER,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.
-CALD WELL.

ANDIEw D

Where a scire fadas was issued to enforce a lien upon 8, house under the lien law of
the District of Columbia, there was no necessity to file a declaration.
Where the contract between the owner and the builder, (who was also the carpenter.)
stipulated for a forfeiture per diem in case the carpenter should delay the work, the
court below ought to have allowed evidence of such delay to be given to the jury
by the defendant, under a notice of set-off, and also evidence that the work and4
materials found and provided upon and for the building, were defective in quality
and character, and far inferior in value to what the contract and specification called
for.
A, master builder, undertaker, or contractor, who undertakes by contract with the
owner to erect a building, or some part or portion thereof, on certain terms, does
not come within the letter or spirit of the act of Congress passed March 2, 1833,
.(4 Stat, at Large 659,) entitled an Act to secure to mechauics and others, payment
for labor done and materials furnished in the erection of buildings in the District
of Columbia.

Tins case: was brought up, by writ of error, from the. Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
It was an action of scire ftcias, brought by Caldwell against
Winder, upon a claim filed under the act of Congress passed

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

435

Winder v. Caldwll.

March 2, 1833, entitled "An Act to secure to riechanics and
others, payment for labor done and materials furnished in the
erection of buildings in the District of Columbia." 4 Stat. at
Large, 659.
Caldwell, in March, 1849, filed his claim in the clerk's office,
-consisting of the gross sum of $10,500, claimed-as due under a
special agreement, and the further sum of $4,086 for extra
work - the items of the extra work being particularly mentioned
in the claim.
Upon this claim the writ of scire facias issued March 20,
1849. No declaration was filed. The defendant appeared and
pleaded non assumpsit, upon which issue was joined.
Upon the trial, the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff in the
sum of $4,746, with interest from 9th March, 1849.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff took three bills of exceptions, and
the defendant, ten. The substance of them all is stated in the
opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Davidgoe, for the plaintiff in error, and
MThr. Bradley and lr. Lawrence, for the defendantin error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following
points.
L That, under the act of 1833, the mechanics and materialmen who do the work and provide the materials for the building,
are entitled to the lien, and not he who merely contracts with
them to do and provide such work and materials.
1.- Because the law toliden verbis*confines the-lien to those
"employed in furnishing materiols for, or in the erecting or constructing" the building.

2. Because the only debts secured by the law are those contracted for work done and materials furnished for the building.
3. Because the 2d clause of the 1st section of the act plainly
shows that a mere contractor is not within its provisions.
4. Because the contractor not being within the letter, is still
less within the spirit of th6 law, the object of which was to
allow those whose property, whether work or materials, had been
advanced upon the credit of the building, to follow that property
after it had become part of the building. In the present* case,
the work and materials advanced, or a large portion of them,
were not the property of. the contractor.
5. Because if the contractor be held within the law, the building would be subjected to double liens and double recoveries.
And, nioie than this, a sub-contractor, not advancing either work
or materials, might, with equal justice, claim the lien, and the
property would then be, subjected to -triple liens for the same
benefit.

SUPREME COURT.
Winder v. Caldwefl.

6. Because t6'e mechanics and material-nen are, by the law,
expressly authorized to institute proceedIngs against the contractor, the basis of which is, that they have found and provided
the work and materials for the building.
7. Because the law contemplates but one lien for the same
work or materials, and if there be two or more, the satisfaction
which the owner is entitled to, under the last clause of the 1st
section could not be entered. Act of 1833, (4 Statutes at Large;
p. 659); Penn. Lien Laws of 1803, (Pamphlet L. 591); of 1806,
(4 Smith's L. 300); and of 1836, (Pamphlet L. 695); Jones v.
'Shawhan, 4 W. & S. 257, 264; Hoatz v. Patterson, 5 W..&
S. 537, 539 ; Haley v. Prosser, 8 W. & S. 133, 134; Whitman
.v.Walker, 9 W. & S. 183, 187; Bolton v. Johns, 5 Barr's Penn.
Rep. 145, 150.
But, further, the act of 1833 cannot be regarded as givig a
lien to the contractor in this case, unless it, an affirmative
statute, without a repealing clause or negative words, be held to
repeal a former law passed in pari materia, and between which
and the act of 1833 there is no necessary repugnancy. The act
of Maryland, passed December 19, 1791, -rovided as follows:
" 9. And for the encouragement of maiter-builders to undertake the building and finishing houses within the said city, by
securing to them a just and effectual remedy for their advances
and earnings, be it enacted, that for all sums due and owing, on
written contracts, for the building any house in the said city, or
the brickwork, or carpenters' or joiners' work thereon, the undertaker or workmen employed by the person for whose use the
house shall be built, shall have a lien 6 n the house and the
ground on which the same is erected, as well as for the materials
found by him; provided the said written contract shall have been
acknowledged before one of the commissioners, a justice of the
peace, or an alderman of the corporation of Georgetown, and
recorded in the office of the clerk for recording deeds herein
created, within six calendar months from the time of acknowledgment as aforesaid; and if, within two years after the last of
the work is done, he proceeds in equity, he shall have remedy as
upon a mortgage, or if he proceeds at law within the same time,
he may have execution against the house and land, in whose
hands soever the same may be; but this remedy shall be considered as additional only, nor shall, as to the land, take place
of any legal encumbrance made prior to the commencement of
such claim." 2 Kilty's Laws of Md. act 1791, ch. 45, §10.
Tlis law gives a lien to the contractor or to the workmen
employed by the owner, but it, requires, 1. That there shall be a
-contract in writing; 2. That such contract shall be acknow-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1852.

487

Winder v. Caldwedl.

ledged; and 3. Recorded within six months after acknowledgment.
In the present case there was a written contrac but it was
neither acknowledged nor recorded; and, besides, the remedy
adopted is wholly different from that given by the act of 1791.
Is that law repealed by the act of 1833? It is not in any
portion; or, if at all, not so far as concerns the right of the contractor.
It is not repealed, in whole or in part, expressiy or by direct
terms. Is it by necessary implication?
There must be, to-repeal by implicatioi,, a positive repugnancy
between the provisions of the new law and those of the old;
and even then the old law is repealed only pro tanto, to the extent of the repugnancy. "Wood v. The United States, 16 Pet.
342, 362; )laviess et al. v. Fairbaim et al. 3 How. 636, 646;
Beals v. Hale, 4 How. 37, 53; Chesapeake & 0. C. Co. v. Baltimore &.0. R. R. Co. 4 Gill & 3. 1, 152, 153; Dwarris on St.
673; 674, 675.
A later statute, which is general, does not abrogate a former,
which is particular. 6 Rep. b. 19; Dwarris on St. 674.
Statutes in par materia, are to be taken together and compared in the construction of them. The United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556; Dwarris on St, 699.
Statutes are to be construed with reference to the existing
law. Four things are to be considered; what was the law before the act; the mischief not provided against; the remedy
provided; and the reason of that remedy. Heydon's case, 3 Co. 7."
The mischief which required the passage 9 f the act of 1833,
was twofold: 1. The law gave no lien to mechanics contracting
with the undertaker or contractor. 2. It gave no lien whatever
to the material-man, unless he was at the same time undertaker,
or a workman contracting directly with the owner.
The hole object of the law of 1833, was to supply the omissions of the act of 1791. It was desigued to be auxiliary merely,
and not to repeal the provisions of the existing law.
Certainly no reason can be assigned why the salutary provision of the act of 1791, requiring a contractor to enter into a
written contract, and have the same acknowledged and recorded,
was intended to be annulled.
The act of 1701 is not obsolete, bul has been recognized as
in full force. Homans v. Coombe, 3 Cranch, C. C. Rep. 366decided in 1828.
II. The court below erred in refusing to instruct the jury that
the plaintiff was not entitled to recover for the work and materials done and provided under the special agreement.
1. Because the act of 1833 is inapplicable to cases where work
37

*

438

SUPRE-ME COURT.
Winder v. Caldwell.

and materials are furnished under a special agreement.

Jones
v.. Shawhan, 4 W. & S. 257, 262; Hoatz v. Patterson, 5 Id. 537,
539; Haley V. Prosser, 8 Id. 133, 134; Witmnan v. Walker, 9 Id.
183, 187; Barton v. Johns, 5 Barrs Penn. R. 145, 150; Act of
1-791, ch. 45, § 10; United States v. Barney, 2 Hall's Law J
128; Ex parte Lewis, P Galli ..4830; Hostler's case, Yelv. 66;
"Bac. Abr. Trover, E.; 2 Rol. Abr. 92, Justification, pl. 2; Chapman v. .Allen, Cro. Car. 71; Bul. N. P. 45, Brennan v. Currint,
Sayre,'224; S. C. cited 3 Selw. N. P. 1163 - Stone v. Lingwood,

1 Str. 651; Collins v. Ongley, cited Selw. N. P. ubi sup.; Stevenson v. Blakelock, 1 Maule & Selw. 535 ;.and see, also, Boyce
v. Anderson, 2 Pet. 155.
2. 'Because the special agreement in this case was inconsistent
with the retention of a lien. Peyroux et al. v. Howard, 7 Pet.
324; 344; Chase v. Westermore, 5 Maule & Selw. 180; Scarfe
t. Morgan, 4 Mee. & W. 270; 5toddard Woolen Man. v. Huntley 8 N. H. 441; Hutchins et al. v. Olcutt. 4 Verm. 549; Bailey v. Adams, 14 Wend. 201; Welch . Mandeville, 5 Wheat.
277.
II. The court erred in refusing to submit to.the jury the question whether the work and materials, cr what part thereof, were
supplied upon the credit of the building. Hills v. Elliott, 16 S.
& R., 56; Hinchman v. Graham, 2 S. & R. 170.
IV. Adeclaration should have been filed. Foster on Scire
Facias; 72 Law. 14b. p. 350.
V. The judgment rendered was general and in personam.
The proceeding was in rem, and the last clause of the act of
1833i expressly prohibits the rendition of a judgment in the scire
facias, against any other property than the building against
which the lien existed.
VI. -The c :urt erred in refushig to instruct the jury that the
plaintiff waK not entitled to recover for the portion of work and
materials pe- Formed, and furnished under the special agreement,
mdre than tlY ree months before the claim was filed.
VIL The claim, so far as it related to the special agreement,
was not filed in cnformity with the requirements of the law,
and the court erred-in refusing to instruct the jury to that effect.
See the claim, R. 9; McDonald v. Lindall, 3 Rawle, 492.
VIII. The court erred in excluding from the jury, evidence of
defects in the work and materials furnished, under the special
agreement. Withers v. Greon, 9 HoWard, 213; Van Buren v.
Digges, 11, How..461. Notice of set-off had been given. R. 5.
IX. The court erred in rdfusing evidence of delay, the demurrage money mentioned in the agreement, be.ng liquidated damages, and not a penalty. t'letcher v. Dyche, 2 T. R. 32; Huband
v. Grttah, 1 Al. & Napier, 389; Crisdee.-v. Bolioni 3 0. &P.

DECEMBER TERM,

1852.

4M9

Winder v. Caldwell.

240; Leighton v. Wales, 3 M. & W. 545; 2 Poth. Obl. by
Evans, 81, &c; Noble v. Bates, 7 Cow. 307; 2 Greenleaf on Ev.
§§ 257,258, 259, and cases cited; Yan Buren v. Digges, 11 How.
461; Tayloe v. Sandiford, 7 Wheat. 17.
The points on behalf of the defendant in error, were First. That this act is not repugnant to the act of 1791, but
is remedial, cumulative, and auxiliary. That it was designed
to give a lien to every person who, whether undef a parol contract, oral or written, or a contract under seal, should thereafter
furnish materials for or do work upon any dwelling or other
building in the city of Washington during its erection%for the
owner or for the contractor.
That if the building was constructed by contract, no person
who did work or furnished materials to such contractor, could
have the lien, unless within thirty days after being so employed,
he should give *notice in writing to the owner, that he was so
employed to work or furnish materials, and that, he claimed the
benefit of that act.
These points are presented in the 3d, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, and
10th exceptions.
1. The first sentence of the act of 1833, is in the most general
and comprehensive terms. 7 B; & C. 643.
2. The second sentence expressly contemplates the case of a
contract, and provides a remedy for those employed by the contractor.
There is no such provision in any one of the laws of Pennsylvania referred to by plaintiff, arid under which the decisions
of the courts of that State were made.
3. The act of 1791 expressly recognizes and provides for two
sets of liens, the one by the contractor, the other by the workmen. So does the act of 1833.
4. The act of 179 contemplated a statutory mortgage; provided for contracts of a certain description, viz. those in writing
acknowledged before a justice, and recorded in the clerk's office
within six months, and gave a remedy in equity.
This act is not repugnant to that. It extends the remedy and'
provides a new one, (not for those who have made their contracts and recorded them under the law of 1791,) but to all persons who have done work or furnished materials foi the building, without pursuing the remedy given by that law. It provides a different remedy. It gives an absolute lien in all cases.
for two years, to be enforced upon a claim filed by scire facias
or personal action; -or if no claim is filed, then by personal
action.
The act of 1791 provides a lien to commence from the date

SUPREME COURT.
Winder v. Caldwell.

of the contract, if recorded within six months. The act of 1833
gives a lien from the commencement of the work.
There is no repugnancy between them. The two provisions
may well stand together, the latter as cumulative to the former.
3 How. 645-6.
They are both affirmative statutes, and such parts of the prior
statute as may be incorporated into the sutsequent one as consistent with it, must be considered in force. Id. 644-5.
They are in pari materic; they must be taken together as if
they were one law. Id. 564.
A thing'which is within the intention of the makers of the
statute, is as much within the statute as if it were within the
letter. Id. 565.
Here the intention cannot admit of dispute. It was to protect all who furnished skill, time, labor, or materials, to the
erection of the building, without regard to the manner of their
employment. They might make their contract under the act of
1791, and obtain a remedy in 'equity undter that act; or they
might pioceed under thq law of 1833, and seek their remedy at
law only. Both laws require a recording as notice. The law
of 1833 has received this construction from its passage, and
hundreds of mortgages now existing, rest upon it.
Unless it repeals the act of 1791 by necessary implication, it
may be. merely affirmative, or cumulative, or auxiliary. 16 Pet.
362-3.
The more natural, if not necessary inference is, that the legislature intended the new law to be auxiliary to and in aid of
the purposes of the old law, even when some of the cases
provided for may be equally within the reach of each. Id. 363.
In construing an act, (and equally so in acts inpar materia,
3 How. 564, 2 T. R. 504,) if there are expiessions not so large
in one part as those used in another, but upon a view of the
whole act they can collect from the more large and extensive
expression of the legislature,.their intention, it is the duty of
the Judges to give effeit to the larger expressions. Per Lord
Tenterden, 7 B. & C.,643.
A second law on the same subject does not repeal a former one
without a repealing clause, or negative words, unless so clearly
repugnant as to imply a negative. . But if they be not so contrary or so repugnant that the last act expresses or implies a
negative of the first, then they may continue to stand together.
And if such be the case here, a mprtgage of city proporty, recorded in conformity with either law, would be valid. Many
cases of this kind, very analogous, are cited in Foster's case, 11
Coke, 63, 64;.4 How. 53.
We-contend that both acts are in force, and the parties may

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

441

Winder v. Caldwell.

proceed under either. But if the act of 1833 repeals the act of
1791, we contend further" that its provisions -clearly embrace
written contracts for construotion.
Second. If the contractor or p6rson who had done work or
furnished materials for the owner, files his claim in the -clerk's
office, as provided by the act of 1833, within three months after
the last work is done by him, under the same written contract,
or under an implied contract, during the progress of the work,
that claim -will relate back to the commencement of the building and cover the work and materials mentioned in it and used
in the erection of the building. 4th and 5th exceptions.
1. The language of the act is explicit. "Every ..... building hereafter constructed and erected, &c., shall be subject to
the payment of the debts contracted for, or by reason of any
work or materials found and provided by any person or persons,
&c., employed in furnishing the materials for, or in the erecting
and constructing such house or other building, beford any other
li~n which originated subsequent to the commencement of such
other house or building, &c. Provided, That no such debt, &c.,
shall remain a lien on such house or other building, longer than
two years from the commencement of the building thereof, unless, &e., a claim be filed within three months after performing
the work or furnishing the materials."
It could not have been designed by the legislature to deprive
a lumber-merchant of his lien, if there was an understanding
between himself and the owner that he should furnish .the lumber for the building from time to time, as it should be required,
and it should occur, in the course of the erection of the building,
that more than three months should elapse between filing one
order and the giving of a. new one.
2. If the work is done by contract, and there is an express or
tacit understanding between the parties that alterations may be
required b' the owner and executed by the contractor during the
progress of the work, it would be in direct violation of the spirit
of the law, and the obvious intent of the legislature to deprive
the contractor of his lien, unless he from time to time, and every
three months recorded his claim.
3. The language of the act is, within three months after per.fo'ming the work or fzrnishing the materials. This means, by
the force of the terms, after performing the last work or furnishing the last materials used in the progress of the building; not
that he shall record his claims tolies quoties three months shall
elapse. This would be requiring the party to accumulate costs,
the thing the legislature designed to -avoid, and to do a vain
thing, which the law never requires.
4. Much more will this construction apply to A contract, as in

442

SUPREME

COURT.

'WindeX v. Caldwell.
this case, for work and materials for a building which contemplated eighteen months in its construction.
As to the pleadings.
1. No declaration is required on the appearance of the defendant to ascirefaciasunder this act. 'In Blake v. Dodemead
et 'x..(2 Str. 775,) it is said there is no such thing as a declaration on a scire facas, the plea is to the writ, and narratioand
breve in this case are the same.
Vaughn v. Floyd, 1 Sid. 406. The scire facias disclosed the
facts on wvhich it was founded, and required an answer from the
defendant; it was said to be in the nature of a declaration.
Bank of Scotland v. Fenwick, 1 Exch. 796, (per Rolfe.) The
declaration,- in fact, sets out the writ, and is in the same form as
the writ.
Nunn t. Claxton, 3 -Exch. 715. Although called a declaration, it is "merely a mode of entering the writ on the record."
See, also, Herd v. Brustowe, Cro. Eliz. 177; Tidd's Pz ic.
8th ed. 1140.
2. The nature of the relief intended, tle object of the legislature to give a mortgage, and the writ being provided as notice
of the action, the court may well, as the Circuit Court has heretofore, consider it as setting forth the facts on which it is
founded, a narrative in the nature of a declaration, make it
part of the record, and require the defendant to plead to it. The
-statute itself, in the gecond section, would seem to contemplate
the same thing.
SecQnd, as to the form of the judgment
The writ is not to show cause why execution should not issue
against the-property mentioned in it, but to show cause why
the court ought not to render judgment for the sum demanded
upon the record aforesaid.
This is the conclusion of the declaration.
The judgment is responsive. It must be the same after the
pleadinq "as in personal actions for the recovery of debts."
The judgment, then, is right. But the record being in the
same court, the statute regulates the form and extent of the
execution which may issue on that judgment.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Caldwell, who was plaintiff below, entered- into a contract
'with Winder, " to furnish all the materials and do all the carpenter work required to a certain house to be erected in the city
of Waghington," for the sum of ten thousand dollars. After
the house was finished, the contractor filed a lien against the
building,.claimaing" this sum, together with sundry charges for
extra work. A scire facias was issued to enforce this claim, and

DE

MCEMBER TERM, 1852.

443

Winder v. Caldwell.

a trial had, in the course of which, numerous bills of exception
were sealed by the court at the defendaqt's instance, which form
the subjects for our consideration in this case.
1. The want of a declaration, though not the subject of exception below, has been urged here as an error. But we think
this objection is without foundation.
A scirefaciasis a judicial -writ used to enforce the execution
of some matter of record on which it is usually founded; but
though /judicial writ, or writ of execution, it is so far 'an-ori-'
ginal that the defendant may plead to it. As it discloses the facts
on which it is founded, and requires an answer from the defendant, it is in the nature of a declaration, and the plea is properly
to the writ. In the present case the bill of particulars of the
plaintiffs claim is filed of record under the statute wb1h givdes
this remedy, and it is recited in the writ and thereby made part
of it, so that any further pleading on his part, to set forth the
nature of his d~mand, would De-wholly superfluous.
2. In the written contract between the parties, given in evidence on the trial, it is stipulated that "the work is to be
promptly executed, so that no delay shall be occasioned to the
builder by having to wait for the carpenter's work ;" and also,'
"that in.any and every case in which the carpenter shall occasion delay to the building the sum of twenty-five dollars per
day shall be deducted for each and every day so delayed, from
the amount to be paid by this contract."
The defendant, under a notice of set-off, offered to prove
"that in consequence of the plaintiff's not being ready to pul
up his work according to said contract,*delay was occasioned by
him in the construction of the building of not legs" than three
weeks ;" and also, "that the work and materias found and provided upon and for the said building, were defective in quality
and character, 'and far inferior in value to what said contract
and specification called for."
The refusal of the court to permit such evidence to go to the
jury, is the subject of the first two bills of exception.
The statute which authorizes this proceeding, gives the defendant liberty "to plead and make such defence as 'in personal
adtions for the recovery" of debts." Had the plaintiff below
brought his aetiQn of assumpsit on the contract, the right to
make this defence cannot now be doubted. For, although it is
true, as a general rule, that unliquidatcd damages cannot be the
subject of set-off, yet it is well settled that a total or partial
failure of consideration, acts of nonfeasancee or misfeasance,
immetliately connected with the cause of action, or any equitable defence arising out of the same transaction/, may be given
in evidence in mnigation of damages, or recouped;- not strictly

444

SUPREME COURT.
Winder v. Caldwell.

by way of defalcation or set-off, but for the purpose of defeating
the plaintiffs action in whole or .inpart, and to avoid circuity
of action. Without niticing the numerous cases on this sub.
ject, it is sufficient to say that the cases of Witheis v. Green,
(9 How. 214,) and Van Buren v. Digges, (11 How. 461,) decided
in .this court, are conclusive of the question. The court below,
iherefore, erred in the rejection of the testimony offered.
3. The remaining bills of exceptiofi, involve, in fact, but one
proinent and important question, and the decision of it will
dispose of this case.
The. right to file a "mechanic's lien," as it is usually denominated, is claimed by the plaintiff, under the act of Congress of
March 2d, 1833, entitled, "An act to secure to mechanics and
others, payment for labor done and materials furnished, in the
erection of buildings in the District of Columbia." The first
spctidn of this act, defines the persons who shall be entitled to
this peculiar security and remedy, as follows:
"All and every dwelling-house, or other building, hereafter
constructed a:d erected within the city of Washington, in the
town of Alexandria, or in Georgetown, in the District of Columbia, shall be subject to the payment of the debts contracted
for, or by reason of any .work done, or materials found and provided, by any brickmaker, bricklayer, stonecutter, mason, limemerchant, carpenter, painter and glazer, ironmonger, blacksmith,
plasterer and lumber-merchant, or any other person or persons
employed in furnishing materials for, or in erecting and constriieting such house or other building, before any other lien which originated subsequent to the commencement of such house, or other
building. But if such dwelling-house or other building, or any
portion thereof, shall have been constructed under contract, or contracts, entered into by the owner thereof, or his or her agent,
with any person or persons, no person who may have done work
for such, contractor or contractors, or furnished materials to him,
or on his order or authority, shall have or possess any lien on
said hodse or other building, for work done, or materials so furnished, unless the person or persons employed by such contractor
to do work. on, or furnish materials for, such building, shall,
within thirty days after being so employed, give notice in writing to the owner or owners of such building, or to his o; to their
agent, that he or they are so employed to work or to furnish
materials, and that they claim the benefit o. the lien granted by
this act."
Does a master-builder, undertaker, or contractor, who undertakes, by contract with the owner, to erect a building, or some
pait or portion thereof, on certain terms, come within the letter

o1 spii of this act, or within any of the classes enumerated, gs

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

445

Winder v. Caldwell.

entitled to this special remedy.? Such persons have an opportunity, and are capable of obtaining their own securities. They
do not labor as mechanics, but superintend work done by others.
They are not tradesmen in lumber, or other materials for building, but employ others to furnish materials. If such contractor
should by accident be a carpenter, or an owner or vendor of
lumber, yet he deals not with the owner in this capacity, but as
an undertaker, who has covenanted for his own securiies.
The title to this act shows its policy and intention. It is to
secure, to "mechanics and others, payment for labor done and
materials found;" and the persons enumerated in the first section are, plainly, those mechanics and tradesmen whose personal
labor or property have been incorporated into the building,
and not the agents, supervisors, undertakers, or contractors, who
employed them. The act contemplates two conditions, under
which such labor and materials may have been furnished: First,
on the order of the owner, who may act without the intervention of any middleman, and thus become indebted directly to
his mechanics and tradesmen. Or, secondly when they have
been furnished on the order of a contractor or undertaker. - In
such cases, the mechanic, or material-man, if he intends, to look
to the credit of the building, and not to that of the contractor
with whom he deals, must give notice to the owner of the'building, -within thirty days, of his intention to claim this security.
The contractor, though mentioned in the act, is not enumerated
among those entitled to its benefit. The aim and policy of
this act is also obvious. Experience has shown. that mechanico
and tradesmen, who furnish labor and materials for the construction of buildings, are often defrauded by insolvent owners and
dishonest contractors. Many build houses on speculation, and
after the labor of the mechanic and the materials are incorporated into them, the owner becomes insolvent, and sells the
buildings, or encumbers them with liens; and thus, one portion
of his creditors are paid at the expense of the labor 'and property of others. Or, the solvent owner, who builds by the
agency of a contractor or middleman, pays his price and receives his building, without troubling himself to inquire what
has been the fate of those whose labor or means have constructed it. These evils required a remedy, and such a one as
is given by this act. Its object is, not to secure contractors,
who can take care of themselves, but those who may-suffer loss
by confiding in them. It is not the merit of the contractor, that
gave rise to the system, but the protection of those who might
be wronged by him, if the owner were not compelled thus to
take care of their interests before he pays away the price stipuVOL. 'Xiv.

38

SUPREME

446

COURT.

Salmon Falls Manufacturing Company v. Goddard.

lated. But the contractor is neither within the letter nor the
spirit of the act.
A question has been made in the argument, whether the act
of Maryland, of 19th of December, 1791, formerly in force in
this district, is supplied or repealed, by the act of Congress now
under consideration. But as the proceedings in this case are
not within or under the act of Maryland, the question is not
before us for decision. The plaintiff claims his right to support
this proceeding, under the act of Congress alone, and if that
fais him, his only resource is to his action on his contract.
That he has mistaken his remedy, the court entertain no doubt.
If precedent were needed to justify this construction of the
act of Congress, it may be found in the reports of the Supieme
Court of Pennsylvania, where similar legislation has always received the §ame construction. See Jones v. Shawhan, 4 Watts
& Serg. 257; Hoatz v. Patterson, 5 W. & S. 537, &c.
4. It is unnecessary to notice particularly the exceptidn to the
form of the judgment. It is certainly not iii the form required
by the act; and although the act may be construed to prescribe
the effect rather than the form of the judgment, there is no reason why the form should differ from the effect; or that, in words,
it should give the plaintiff any thing more than the law gives
him, 'viz. execution of the property described in the scire facias.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore. reversed, and
venire de novo awarded..
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and fpr the county of Washington, and
'was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this cause, be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, wiih costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
award. a venirefacias de novo.

THE SALMON

MANUFACTURING COUPA NY, PLAINTIFF IN
ERROR, V. WILLIAM W. GODDARD.

-FALLS

The statute of fraud in Mbassachuietts, is -substantially .he same as that of 29 Car.
2, and declares that no contract for the sale of goods, &P, shall be valid, &!c "u-

