86

SUPREME COURT.
Huff et al. v.

Hutchinson.

must assume that they were duly received. But whether they
were duly delivered or not, is immaterial. The defendants in
the suit at law had an opportunity to make their defence there,
and having failed to make it, cannot be heard in a Court of
Equity. By way of authority, we need only repeat, as the settled rule, what was adjudged in the case of Creath v. Sims, (5
Howard, 204,) that whenever a competent defence shall have
existed at law, the party who may have neglected to use it,
will never be permitted to supply the omission and set it up by
bill in chancery.
This court has never departed from th3 foregoing rule, nor
allowed the circuit courts to depart from it in cases brought
here. Nor can we do so without violating the sixteenth section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, in its true sense. Apparent aberrations may be found, but they are only apparent.
We order that the decree below be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to -be heard, on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, and was- argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause beq and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HENRY D. HUFF,

JOHN BULLEN, AND SAMUEL HALE, PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, V. CHAMPION J. HUTCHINSON, -WHtO ,SUES FOR THE
USE OF WILLIAM W. HURLBUT, JOSEPH. A. SwEETZER, PHILIP
VAN VALXENBURGH, AND GEORGE S. PHILLIPS.

Where the marshal "of the District of Wisconsin attached property at the suit of
creditors in New York, and thdn gave it up upon the a--ecutiort .a bond to himself, for the use of those creditors, it was within the #arisdiction of the District

Court of the United States for Wisconsin, to entertlin a suit by the marshal,
suing upon the bond for the New York creditois, against the claimants in Wisconsin, although both-parties resided in the same State.
The name of the marshal was merely formal; the real plaintiffs were averred to be
citizens of New York.

It was not a good exception upon the ground of variation *between the evidence and
declaration, that the latter stated the bond to have ben'given to Hlutchinson as
marshal of the DiStrict of Wisconsin, and the former stid the State of Wisconsin.
They mean the same thing.
Judgment having been rendered for the plaintiffs in the attachment, by a court having
jurisdiction over the subject, it was too late to object to those proceedings in a suit

upon' the bond, in which they were collaterally introduced.
The bond given to the m shal was In conformity with the statute.

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

587

Ruff et al. v. Hutchinson.
The objections, that the declaration on the bond did not show the jurisdiction of the
court in the attachment suit; that the verdict was entered for the amount due
instead of the penalty of the bond, and that the recovery wnas for a sum greater
than was claimed by the ad damnum in the declaration, were not sufficient for a
new trial.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the' opinion.of the court.
It was argued by iIr. Chatfield,for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mlr. Lee and 11Mr. Seward, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error from the
District Court for the District of Wisconsin.
The action was commenced on a bond given by the plaintiffs
in error to Champion J. Hutchinson, United States Marshal,
for the State of Wisconsin, and his successor in office, in the
penal sum of five thousand six hundred dollars, -for the payment of any judgment within sixty days after its rendition,-in
a suit which William Hurlbut and others had commenced in
the District Court, against Huff, by attachment, and in which a
judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs, for two thousand eight
hundred and eighty-four dollars and forty-eiht cents, and costs.
, -To the declaration the defendants pleaded in abatement, that
at the commencement of the suit, Huff, Bullen, and Hale, were
citizens of the State of Wisconsin, and that the said Champion
J. Hutchinson was also a citizen of the same State.
To this plea a demurrer -was filed; and the District Court
sustained the demurrer.
The declaration stated ,that Hutchinson, late maishal, sues
for the use of William W. Hurlbut. Joseph A. Sweetzer, Philip
Van Valkenburgh, and George S. Phillips, citizens of the State
of New York, plaintiffs. The bond was given to the marshal
in pursuance of the statute of Wisconsin, regulating proceedings'against debtors by attachment, and the name of Hutchinson was merely formal, as he had no interest in the suit. The,
real plaintiffs were those named in the declaration, fox whose
use the suit was brought, and who are averred to be citizens
of New York.
The District Court did not err in sustaining the demurrer. In
MeNutt v. Bland & Humphreys, (2 Itow. 10,) this court held, in
such a case-, the Circuit Court had jirisdiction.
After the demurrer was sustained, the defendants filed a plea.
of nil debet:
On the trial, a bill of exceptions was taken to the rulings of
the court, which will now be considered.

SUPREME COURT.
Huff et al. v. Hutchinson.

The first exception was to the introdutction of the bond as
evidence, because it varied from the declaration. The alleged
variance consisted in this: The declaratian states the bond to
have been given to Hutchinson, as marshal of the District of
Wisconsin, and in the bond he is described as the marshal for
the State of Wisconsin. As the State of Wisconsin is the
same in fact and in law, as the District of Wisconsin, there
was no variance.
Objection was made to the introduction of the writ of attachment in evidence, on the same ground of variance as above
stated to the bond. There was no necessity of introducing this
evidence, as the condition of the bond referred to the judgment
to be obtained, but the court did not err in admitting it.
Other objections were made to the a-fidavit on which the
attachment was issued, to the return of the writ, &c. These
objections were unsustainable. The court had jurisdiction of
the writ by attachment, and the judgment obtained in that case
was collateral to a suit on the bond. ' Objections, therefore,
could not be made to the proceedings in attachment, however
erroneous they might be.
In the case of Voorhees et al. v. The Bank of the United
States, (10 Pet. 449.) this court say, " So long as this judgment
remains in force, it is in itself evidence of the right of the
plaintiff to the thing adjudged, and gives him a right to process to execute the judgment. The errors of the court, however apparent, can be examined only by an appellate power."
That was'a procedure by attachment, and there were many
errors on tife face of the record, which would have required an
appellate court to reverse the judgment; but they could not
be considered when the record of the judgment was introduced
collaterally.
It was objected that the bond did not pursue the statute. 1.
That it should haye been in double the amount of the goods
attached. 2. That the bond described in i:he declaration is in
the penalty of $5,600, to pay whatever judgment should be obtained. The 13th section of the statute, which regulates the
giving of the bond, provides that "it may be in a penalty of
double the amount specified in the affidavit, annexed to the writ,
as due to the plaintiff, conditioned for the payment of any j adgment which. may be recovered by the plaintiff in the *suit commenced by such attachment, within sixty days after such judgment shall be rendered.", The bond is within the -statute.
The bond bleing given in the name of Hutchinson, as marshal,
and his successor in office, the suit is well brought in the name
of Hutchinson,.though he has been succeeded in office by another.
The name of the obligee being used'as matter of form, the

I)D.QE3MBER TERM, 1852.

589

Goesele et al. v. Bimeler et al.

action may be brought in the name of the late marshal or his
successor.
Several grounds were taken in arrest of judgment.
1. Because the declaration on the bond, does not show that
the District Court had jurisdiction in the attachment suit. Such
showing was unnecessary, as that court had general jurisdiction
of such cases.
2. Because the verdict is informal,'in being entered fdr the
amount due, when it should have been for the penalty of the
bond. This is a mere informality, and no ground for arresting
the judgment.
3. Because the recovery is for a sum greater than is claimed
by the ad darnnurn. in the declaration. The action wvas debt,
and the damages laid *ere only require4 to cover the interest.
There was no error in the District Court in overruling the
motion in arrest of judgment.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this
court, tlat the judgment of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and interest
until the same is paid, at the same rate per annum that similar
judgments bear in the courts of the State of Wisconsin.
1

JOHN G.

GOESELE AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS,
BIMELERL AND OTHERS.

V. JOSEPH M.

A society called Separatists, emigrated from Germany to the United States. They
were very poor, and one of them, in 1817, purchased land in Ohio, for which he
gave his Iond,and took the title to himself. Afterwards, they adopted two constitutions, one in 1,1M, and one in 1824, which they signed, and in 1832 obtained
an act of incorporation. The articles of association, or constitutions of 1819 and
1824, contained a renunciation of individual property.
The heirs of one of the members
who signed these conditions, and died in 1827,
cannot maintain a bill of partition.
From 1,47 to 1919, the contract between the members and the person who purchased
the property, vested in parol, and.was destitute of a consideration. Nlo legal rights
were vested in the members.
The an'-etor of these heirs renounced all right of individual'-property, when he
signed the articles, and did so upon the consideration that the society would support him in sickness and in health; and this was deemed by him an adequate compensatiou for his labor and property, contributed to the common stock.

VOL. XIV.

50

