SUPREME COURT.

JAMIkS

TAYLOR,

APPLLANT, VS. NICnOLAS LoNGWORTI
MAS D. CARNEAL, APPELLEES.

ANP THO-

Specific performance of a contract by T., for the sale by him of a lot of ground in the city
of Cincinnati, was asked, by a bill filed in the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio, by
L. The complainant in the bill had purchased the lot, and had paid according to the
contract, the proportion of the purchase-money payable to T. By the contract, a deed,
with a general warranty, was to have been given by the vendor within three months, on
which a mortgage forthe balance of the purchase money was to have been executed by
the purchaser.. This deed was never given or offered. The purchaser went into possession of the lot, improved it by building valuable'stores upon it, and s0ld a part of it
A subsequent agreement was made with tile
vendor, as to the rate of interest to be paid
on the balance of the purchase money. The purchase was made in 1814, and the interest, as agreed upon, was regularly paid until 1822, when it was withheld. In 1822,
the vendor instituted an action of cieetment for the recovery of the property- and he obtained possession of the same in 1824. In 1819, the purchaser was informed that one
Chambers and wife had a claim on thp lot, which was deemed valid by counsel; and in
1823, a suit for the recovery of the lot was instituted by Chambers and wit ; against
T. L. and others, which was depending until after 1829. In 1825, this -bill vias filed,
claiming from T. a conveyance of the property under the contract of 1814, on the payment of the balance of the purchase money and interest. The Circuit Court decreed a
conveyance; and the decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
After the filing of the original bill, amended bill, and answers, the Circuit Court considered
.that C., who'held a part of the lot purchased by L., should be made a party complainant;
and he came in and submitted to such decree as might be made between the original parties. Held, that-this was regular.
There is no doubt that time may be of the essence of a contract for the sale of property.
It may be made so by the 6xpress stipulations of the parties, or it may arise by implication from the very nature of the property, or the avowed objects of the seller or the purchaser. And even when time is not thus, either expressly or impliedly, of the essence of
the contract, if the party seeking a specific performance has been guilty of gross laches,
orfhas been inexcu~ably negligent in performing the contract on his part, or if there has,
in-the intermediate periods, been a material change in circumstances, affbeting the rights,
interests, or obligations of the parties, in all such cases, Courts of Equity will refuse to
decree any specificperfotmanc6, upon the plain ground that it would be inequitable and
unjust. But, except under circumstances of this sort, or of an analogous nature, time is
not treated by Courts of Equity as if the essence of the contract; and relief will,be given
to the party who seeks it, if he has not been grossly negligent,'and comes within 'a reasonable time, although he has not complied with the strict terms of the contract. But
in all such cases, the Court expects the party to make out a case free from all doubt, and
to show that the relief which he asks is, under all the circumstances, equitable; and to
account in a reasonable nmanoer for his delay and appdrent omission of-duty.
The rule that the purchaser of property shall prepare and tender a deed of conveyance of
th6 property to the vendor, to be executed by him ; although prevailing in England, does
not seem t0 have been adopted in some of the states of the United States. , In Ohio the
rule does not prevail. The Iocal practice ought certainly to prevail, and to constitute the
proper guide in the interpretation of the terms of a contract.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Ohio.

The appellee, Nicholas Longwort-h, brought a suit, by a bill in
the Circuit Court of Ohio, for a specific performance of a contract
made with James Taylor, for the sale, by Taylor to him, of a lot of
ground in the city of Cincinnati. Afterwards, Thomas D. Carneai

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

173

[Taylor vs Longworth et al.]

was made a party to the proceedings. The Circuit Court made a
decree in favour of the complainants; and the defendant, James
Taylor, prosecuted this appeal.
The facts of the case are stated fully in the opinion of the Court.
It was submitted to the Court on printed arguments, by Mr. Storer
and Mr. Fox, for the appellant; and by Mr. Chase, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of Ohio, in a
suit in equity, brought by Longworth, the appellee, against Taylor,
the appellant, for a specific performance of a contract for the purchase of land.
The facts, so far as they are important, to be considered upon the
present appeal, are as follow: On the 5th of April, 1814,by a sealed
contract between the parties, Longworth purchased of Taylor part
of a lot in Cincinnati, No. 81, for the price of one hundred and
twenty-five dollars per foot in front, whatever measurement it should
hold out, one-third payable on signing the contract, one-third in six
months, and the remaining third in twelve months. A deed of general warranty was to be given by Taylor, in the course of three
months; and a mortgage was to be given on the premises by Longworth, to secure the remaining payments. On the same day, by a
written endorsement ori the contract, Taylor acknowledged the receipt of the sum of two thousand four hundred and fifty-eight dollars and thirty-three cents, "supposed to be about the first paymert." The whole purchase money upon the admeasurement of
the lot, amounted to seven thousand four hundred and six dollars
and twenty-five cents. No deed was executed by Taylor according
to the contract, or at any time subsequent: but Longworth was
put in immediate possession of the lot. When the second instalment
of the purchase money became due, it was not paid; but by an arrangement between the parties, it was postponed upon Longworth's
agreeing to pay the same interest annually thereon, as was received
for dividends upon stock in the Miami bank, which was nine or ten
per cent. This interest was accordingly paid up to near the close of
the year 1819 ; and in the intermediate time Longworth caused four
houses to be built, for stores, on the lot, at the cost of about 'four
thousand four hundred and. sixty-four dollars. In the year 1819; or
the beginning of 1820, Longworth was informed that one Chambers
and his wife had a claim on the lot, .which was deemed valid by the
counsel employed to investigate it; and that a suit would be commenced on it. A suit was accordingly commenced in equity, against
Taylor, Longworth, and others, in November, 1823, which was not
determined until after 1829. In September, 1822, no interest on the
purchase money having been paid by Longworth after 1819, Taylor commenced an action of ejectment against Longworth, for the
lot; and recovered possession thereof in August, 1824.
In June, 1825, the prp ert till in equitywas brought by LorP12

174

SUPREME COURT.
'Taylor vs. Longworth et al.]

worth, for a specific performance of the original contract for the purchase of the lot. In the progress of the cause, several supplementary
and amended bills were filed ; and after the answers were put in,
and the evidence taken, the cause came on to be heard; and the
Court being of opinion that one Carneal, a citizen of Ohio, who was
assignee of one Canby, a subpurchaser of a part of the lot from
Longworth, ought to be made a party to the suit, the cause was ditected to stand over: and he was accordingly made a party plaintiff,
and came in and submitted to such decree as might be made by the
Court on the case, as it then stood between the original parties.
The cause was afterwards fully argued, and a decree, for a specific
performance was pronounced; from which the present appeal'has
been
taken.
Some
question has been suggested in respect to the propriety
of
making Carneal a party at so late a stage of the cause; and of the right
of Taylor, in virtue thereof, to insist by way of plea upon his exemption from being sued, except in the District of Kentucky, where he

resided. But we do not think that there is any valid objection to
the proceedings on this account. By his general appearance to the
suit in the prior proceedings, Taylor necessarily waived any objection to the suit foui.ded on his residence in another district ; and he
became, like every other party properly before a Court of Equity, subject to all the orders of the Court. Whether Carneal, as a sub-purchaser, was an indispensable party under all the circumstances of
the case, may admit of doubt; but, as his being made a party in no
respect changed the actual posture of the case as to the other parties,
he merely submitting to be bound by the proceedings, we see no
objection to his joinder in that stage of the cause, which in any degree touches either the propriety or the validity of the decree.
The only substantial question in the cause is, whether, under all
the circumstances, the plaintiff, Longworth, is entitled to a specific
performance of the contract for the'purchase : and upon the fullest
consideration we are of opinion that he is, and that the decree is
therefore right. We shall now proceed to state, in a brief manner,
the grounds upon which we hold this opinion.
In the first place, there is no doubt that time may be of the essence
of. a contract for the sale of property. It may be made so by the
express stipulations of the parties, or it may arise by implication
from the very nature of the property, or the avowed objects of the
seller or the purchaser. And even when time is not thus either expressly or impliedly of the essence of the contract, if the party seekii~g a specific performance has been guilty of gross laches, or has
been inexcusably negligent in performing the contract on his part;
ox if there has, in the intermediate period, been a material change
of circumstances, affecting the rights, interests, or obligations of the
parties; in all such cases, Courts of Equity will refuse to decree any
specific. performance, upon the plain ground that it would be inequitable
and unjust.
But exccpt
under circumstances of this sort, or of an analogous

JANUARY TERM, 1'40.

175

. [Taylor vs. Longworth, et al.]

nature, time is not treated by Courts of Equity as of the essence of
the contract: and relief will be decreed to the party who seeks it,
if he has not been grossly negligent, arid comes within a reasonable
time, although he has not complied with the strict terms of the contract. But in all such cases, the Court expects the party to inake
out a case free from all doubt ; and to show that the relief which he
asks is, under all the circumstances, equitable.; and to account in a
reasonable manner for his delay, and apparent omission of his
duty.
It does not seem necessary to cite particular authorities in support
of these doctrines, although they are very numerous. It will be
sufficient to refer to the cases of Pratt vs. Carroll, 8 Cranch, 471.
Pratt vs. Law, 9 Cranch, 456. 493, 494, and Brashier vs Gratz, 6

Wheat. 528, in this Court; and to Seton vs. Slade, 7 Vesey, 265.
Halsey vs. Grant, 13 Vesey, 73. Alley, vs. Deschamps, 13 Vesey, 22.5.
Hearn vs. Tenant, 13 Vesey, "89, and Ilepwill vs. Knight, 1 Younge
and Coll. 415, in England, as affording illustrations in point.
In applying the doctrines above stated to the facts arid circumstances of the present case, the first remark that occurs, is, that the
first default was on the part of Tayior. By his contract he undertook, to mnake a deed of general warranty of the premises in the
course of three months after the date of the contract; the second
instalment inot being payable until a long time afterwards. He
,never made any such deed, or offered to make it ; and if lie had, it
is obvious, that instead of his being placed in the situation of a de-fendant in equity, as lie now is, he would have been compelled to
be a plaintiff either to enforce a specific performance, or to rescind
the contract. Now, the plain import of the words of his contract
is, that he will make the deed. The excuse for the omission is, that
it was the duty of the other side to prepare and tender a formal
deed to him for execution. And authorities are relied on, principally from the English Courts, to show, that in all cases of this sort,
the established rule is, that the vendee shall prepare and tender the
conveyance. This is certainly the rule in England, founded, doubtless, upon the general understanding arid practice among 'conveyancers, as well as upon the peculiar circumstances attendant upon
conveyances in that country. The same rule does not seem to have
been adopted generally in America, although it may be adopted in
some states. In Ohio, the rule is stated by the learned judge Who
decided the present case, not to prevail ; and the local practice, in
a case of this sort, ought certainly to constitute the proper guide in
the interpretation of the terms of the contract. But waiving this
consideration, let us proceed to others presented by the case.
Up to the close of the year 1819, there is no pretence to say that
there had been any violation of the contract on the part of Longworth; and no step whatever was taken by Taylor, until he brought
the ejectment in 1822, to enforce the contract. That ejectment he
asserLs in his answer to have been brought in order to compel

176

SUPREMDECOURT.
[Taylor vs. Longworth et aL

Longworth to complete the contract, or to Put an end to it. In the
mean time, Longworth had been left in, the possession of the premises under the contract, had made improvementsupon them, and
had received the rents and profits with the acquiescence of Taylor.
Under such-circumstances, where there had been a part performance, and large expenditures on one side, under the contract, and
acquiescence on the other side; it would be incompatible with established doctrines, to hold that one party could, at his own, election,
by a suit at law, put an end to the contract. It could be rescinded
by Taylor only, by the decree of the Court of Equity'; which decree
would, of course, require full equity to be done to the other party,
under all the circumstances. Pending the ejectment, Longwdrth
made several propositions for payment, varying from the original
conditions, all of which were declined by-Taylor; although. it
seems that Longworth supposed that some of them would have
been satisfactory. The recovery in the ejectment was, of course,
successful, as the legal title was in, Taylor; and the equities of
Longworth could not be matters of defence 'to that suit.
The present bill was brought in the succeeding year; and the
question is, whether, under all the circumstances of the case, Longworth is now entitilo to a specific performance of the contract, upon
his paying all the arrears of the purchase money, Undoubtedly,
if there were no grounds of excuse shown accounting for the delay
on his part to fulfil the contract, between September, 1822, when the
ejectment was brought, and June, 1.825, when the present.'bill was
filed; there might be strong reason to contend that he was 'not entitled to a specific performance of the contract, even if some other
X6lief on account'of his improvements might be deemed equitable.
But in point of fact, the adverse claim of Chpmbers and wife to the
property, was made known as early as the year 1820; and was
asserted by counsel, who were consulted on that occasion, to be
-valid. The claim was prosecuted (aCs has been already stated) by a
suit in equity, brought in 1823, against Taylor, Longworth, and
others; and remained undecided until the close of the year, 1829.
There is no pretence ,to say, that this claim was not bona fide asserted,,or that Longworth brought it forward to cover his own default. While it was known and pending, there is as little pretence
to say, that Longworth could be compelled to complete the 'contract
on his side; or that he had not a right to lie by, and await the decision of the title, which thus hung, as a cloud, upon that of Taylor.
It is one thing to say, that he might waive the objectioni and require a conveyance on the part of Taylor; and quite another thing
to say, that he was compellable, at once, to elect at his peril, either
to proceed on the contract, or to surrender it. There -is no ground
to assert that from the commencement of the. present suit, Long.
worth has not always been ready and willing to pay up the arrears
of the purchase money, and to 'complete the contract. The proofs
in the case are entirely satisfactory on this head. In our opinion,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

177

[Taylor vs. Longworth et aL.]

the lapse of time is fairly'accounted for by the state of the title ; and
therefore, Longworth has not been guilty of any delay, which is
unreasonable or inexcusable.
There is another view of this subject, which seems equally decisive of the merits of this controversy. If the contract had-been
strictly performed on the part of Taylor, by a conveyance, he would
now have stood in the mere character of a mortgagee ; for in that
event Longworth stipulated to give hii a mortgage for the security
of the unpaid purchase money. Now, in the view of a Court of
Equity, that may well be deemed the true posture of this case;
upon the known principle, that equity will, for the purposes of justice, treat that to have been done, which ought to have been done.
As mortgagee, which would be his character according to the
real intention of both parties, Taylor could have no right to complain of the lapse of time; and could have no claim to the improvements made by Longworth, except as security fbr his debt, In
this view of the matter it is wholly unimportant for us to consider
whether the amount of the rents and profits received by Longworth, was equal to, or a set off to his expenditures and improvements, as affirmed in the answer.,
Upon the whole, we are entirely satisfied with the decree of the
Circuit Court, and it is affirmed, with costs.
This cause came on to be.heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio,
and was argued 'by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed,
with costs.

