JANUARY TERM, 1840.

WILLIAM

A.

CARR, APPELLANT, VS. SAMUEL

H.

DUVAL AND

OTHJ1IRS, APPELLEES.
A decree for a specific performance of a contract to sell lands, refused, because a definite
and certain contract was not made ; and because the party who claimed the perfLbmance
had failed to make it definite and certain on his part, by neglecting to communicate by
the return of the mail conveying to him the proposition of the vendor, his acceptance
of the terms offered.
The case of Eliason vs. Henshaw, 4 Wheat. 225, cited, and the principles'of the decision
re-affirmed.
If it be doubtful whether an agreement has been concluded, or is a mere negotiation
Chancery will not decree a specific performance.

ON appeal from the Court of Appeals for the Territory of
Florida.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
"h. cause was argued by Mr. Coxe and Mr. Webster, for the
appellant; and by Mr. Jones and Mr. Crittenden, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice

CATRON

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In October 1825, William Harris, of Montgomery, Alabama,
made his will, devising to his two sons, William and Stephen, the
tract of land in controversy; lying on Lake Jackson, in Florida.
Stephen and William, at their father's deatht were both minors; and
William soon after died, leaving two brothers and three sisters, who
are his heirs; and two of whom were infants when this bill was
filed, and two of them married women. The land was unimproved
and undiv ded. In the fall of 1835, William A. Carr, the complainant desired to purchase the land, and applied to Stephen W,
Harris for the purpose, byletter; he Carr, residing in Georgia.
The letter of Carr, opening the correspondence, is not in the record,
but the answer to it is sufficiently explanatory. The answer is
dated August 17th, 1835; in which Stephen W. Harris says, his
father left the land to his young brother and himself, that his
brother had died long since, and 1\3 had just come of age, and was
entitled to half the land, which could be divided at any time; "and .
my half," says be, "1 is for ale, but it has first to be divided; my
price for that is ten dollars per acre. '"- "The remaining half is
owned by the brother and sisters of said brother, and I believe they
are willing to sell, and their price', I expect, is ten dollars. Before
any part of the land, short of the whole tract could -be sold, it would
first have to be divided; the whole 6ould be sold so, and our price
is ten dollars.",
The next letter from Stephen W. Harris to complainant, is dated
*December 15th, 1835, acknowledging the receipt of one the day before from complainant, requesting to be informed of the quantity of
02

SUPREME COURT.
(Carr vs. Duval et al.]

the land. The answer stated it to be two thousand one hundred
and thirty-one and one-fourth acres; and proposed to take Carr's
offer for it, with interest on the last note, having two years to run.
On January 2d, 1836, Harris acknowledged the receipt of another
letter from Carr, dated the 25th December, preceding. "I have,"
says he, "come to the determination to sell you the land on the terms
you mentioned :" and then asks'to be informed when, and where
they shall meet to mnake the necessary arrangements.
The letter of Carr of the 25th December, referred to, offers to exchange some lands of his in Georgia, (which, he says, he had previously described,) rated by him at twenty thousand dollars, for the
Florida lands, he giving three thousand dollars difference; or, he
would make the same offer he had previously done. What this
offer was, appears by Harris' letter of the I 6th January, 1836; and
as this letter is the conclusion of the correspondence, so far as Harris
was concerned, and is the principal evidence relied on to establish
the agreement, it becomes necessary for the purposes of its proper
understanding, and to'ascertain the sense in which the parties understood it, to set it forth, together with the answers to it, of the
3d and 19th of February.
"Montgomery, January 16th, 1886.
A. CARR.
"Sir-Yours of the 12th instant, is just received, and in reply
have only to remark, that I will accede to your first proposition, as
stated in my last letter: that is, one-third cash, the balance in two
equal instalments, with a'mortgage on the land-the last two payments to be made in cash-and as all the heirs live in the neighbourhood of this place, it will be the only place where we can conveniently meet tO close the bargain. I wish to know your decision
per return mail, as I have three other offers for the land, and can
sell it immediately if you do not wish to take it."
"MR. WILLIAm

"MR.STEPHEtV W. HaAR.

R".thens, February 3d, 1836.

"Dear Sir-Yours of the 16th January, I received upon my return from Apigusta, and, according to your request, hasten to answer it, and, for answer, say, that I am still as desirous as ever of
taking the land, and have considered myself bound to you for the
money, and you as 'equ'ally bound to me for the'titles to the land;
but as there was in my mind, at least, some doubt to which of my
propositions you had acceded, I thought it best to write again, and
be definitely informed on that subject, for the reasons stated in my
last. It will be out of my power to go to Montgomery, as my
family is sick: my wife, who has been confined, took cold, by leaving her room too soon after her confinement, and upon my arrival
at home. found her quite sick; although better, is still too unwell for
me to leave home just at this time; and our Court commencing here
next week, I shall have to remain uhitil that is over: then I am

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

79

[Carr vs. Duval et al.]

compelled, if my wife's health permits, to go immediately to Florida,
as you have, no doubt, heard of the distressing situation of the
country there in consequence of the Indian hostilities; so you will
have to get all the parties interested in the land together, which I
suppose you can easily do, as you say they all live in the neigh-.
bourhood, and have the titles perfected to me; and in doing so, the
titles must be conjointly by all the heirs interested in the land, made
and executed; and those who have families, their wives must assign
over and relinquish'their right of dower to the same; and when it
is, that is, the title, properly executed, one of you can carry it or
send it to me, or some agent at Tallahassee, and receive the first payment for the same, and my notes for the balance of the purchase*
money, and the mortgage on the land, which suits me better than personal security; and in order that the business may be more properly
executed, yourself and Judge Field had better be in Florida, for I
shall require the boundaries of the land to be defined, so that I may
know where the land lies, and when I am on my own land; as well
as avoid getting on any of my neighbour's land. Will you be
pleased to state what are the offers made you, and by whom, as you
say in your last letter you "have three other offers for the land ;" be
good enough to stite explicitly by whom they are made, what is
the amount of each offer, and the payments. I ask this as it cannot
now make any difference to you, as I consider this matter closed
between us; in other words, I consider the trade as made between
us, which puts the land entirely out of the market. Any further
communication between us will have to be sent to me to Tallahassee, Florida, as the mail communication between this and Montgomery, is so uncertain, that an answer would not reach here until
I should be. gone to Florida. If you would prefer to remain at
home until you know certainly when I would be in Florida, I will
write, on my arrival there, to you, and inform you when to meet
me or go on there; the latter plan will, perhaps, be m6re desirable
to you. I must here inquire if any part of this tract has been taken
off or sold to any person, as I have understood by some it contained two thousand three hundred, and by others, two thousand
four hundred acres; but you always told me in our correspondence
you would not divide it. Shall I hear from you at Tallahassee, as
an answer would reach me there by the time I reach there ?"
"Macon, February 19th, 1836.
"MR. STEPHEN W. HARRIS.

"Dear Sir-You will perceive, by the date of my letter, I am
thus far on my way to Florida, where, if no accident prevents, I
shall reach there in the course of five days more, where.I hope to
see you and have our business brought to completion, where I can
pay you the first payment, most of which I have had for some time,
and take a title to the land. I have been delayed starting as early
as contemplated, from circumstances entirely beyonld my control;
but soon, now, I hope, I shall be able to comply, on my part, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Carr vs. Duval et al.

hope, ere this, you hve received my last letter, and had the title
completed accordingto directions, viz., to have all the heirs interested
in the land to join you in the title, and those who have wives, to
have them, their wives, to assign over and relinquish dower to the
same; and you can start for Tallahassee as soon as you please."
The letter of Harris, when taken in connexion with the former
letters, has no ambiguity in it; he was acting not for himself only;
but his sisters and a brother, without any express authority frort
them; le could have none such from three of the joint owners-two
infants and one a feme'covert.
There was therefore only one probable way in which the bargain
could be closed; that is, by a title bond, or deed, on the part of
Stephen W. Harris, his brother and brother-in-law; the married
adult sister joining in the deed, should one be made, and a covenant by others, as sureties, that the infant heirs shouldconvey when
they came of age. This would have been a very responsible suretiship, and not at all likely to have been undertaken by others than
the family or neighbours of the parties; and hence, at Montgomery,
was the only place (in the language of the letter of the 16th January) where the bargain could be conveniently closed; indeed, it was
the only place where there was the slightest probability of Closing
at all.
It is obvious, Stephen W. Harris had carried on the corresp-ondence upon his own judgment, without consultation with most of the
other defendants, as to details; under the general understanding in
the family that they would take for their portion of the land the
same price he saw proper to take for his. In the correspondence,
the price and times of payment were stated; and it was required
that a mortgage should be given on the land for the two last annual
instalments; but what other security would be required was left
open: so it was left open, what secprity would be given to Car. for
the, title. Where and how it should be made was che great difficulty in closing the agreement. So far as the infant sisters were
concerned, it was a difficulty that Stephen W. Harris had probably
not seriously thought of; and was first met with when he setabout
making deeds in pursuance of the complainant's letter; with which
Harris found it impossible to comply. He was taught by experience, what would at first have prevented most men of age and
business habits from proposing to contract for the sale of the lands
of infant sisters, who would probably marry before they became of
age; and if the land should increase in value, their husbands would
refuse to sanction the contract.
But was the letter of the 16th of January an agreement on behalf
of Stephen W. Harris? Complainant's purpose was to establish a
for such an establishment, lie
cotton farm, or to procure lands fit
obviously did not wish to purchaze lands in an undivided state; nor
did he make any proposition to purchase Stephen W. Harris's undivided interest; it would lmnve been unfit for occupation in this

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

81

[Carr vs. Duval et aL.]

condition. The proposition was, to purchase the whole ; nor did
Stephen W. Harris offer to sell less than the whole, before a partition should be made between him and his sister and brother. The
idea of encumbering the title of the latter with a tenant in common,
in possession, and cultivating the land in an undivided state, was of
course rejected by Mr. Harris: so he distinctly informed Mr. Carr.
The idea of a partial sale and purchase not entering into the contemplation of either party, we must construe the letter of the 16th
of January in reference to this undoubted intention. Mr. Carr was
bound to know that the statute of frauds was in force in Florida,
and no doubt did know-the fact; we take it for-granted he did, and
that the agreement for the sale of the land must be in writing,
signed by the parties to be charged. How then was it possible he
could understand'the letter of the 16th of January to be a complete
and concluded agreement, even had it been simply accepted ? He
is told, all the heirs reside in the neighbourhood of Montgomery,
and in effect that it is the only place where they can meet to close
and conclude the bargain. Now if the bargain was already made,
as the bill assumes, why meet to close it? The truth is prominently
apparent from the face of the letter, what the intention of Harris
was; and nothing but the serious aspect given to it by the pleadings and arguments, would have induced the Court to explain this
note of a few lines, which it nmust be admitted is almost as likely to
be obscured as' elucidated by the attempt. We think no man of
ordinary capacity could have been so far mistaken as to believe the
heirs of William Harris bound by the letter of the 16th of January; nor
even that Stephen W. Harris was bound thereby: the object of the
purchaser and vendor being a joint sale, and that only; the owners
of four-tenths of the estate being no parties to the letter; two of
them infants, and another a married woman, who were incapable
of assent, and gave none in fact, so far as this record furnishes any
evidence. We therefore think it clear that this was"merely a treaty
for a sale and purchase of the land, not perfeated into an agreement;- 11 Ves. 599; and that the letter does not import to be a contract. 2 Simons and Stuart, 194.
But suppose the letter of the 16th January had bound Stephen W.
Harris, and if it was possibl under the circumstances to compel
him to partial performance so far as he had title 3 what effect did the
letters from complainant to him of the 3d and 19th February, have
on that of the 16th Jahuary ?
On the 3d of February, nineteen days after the proposition was
made in the letter of the 16th of January, (and which demanded
an answer by return of mail,) the complainant replied; not that he
accepted the proposition as made; (an indispensable part of which
was that he should immediately come to Montgomery, and there
close the bargain;) but that his family was sick; that he had a Court
to attend; then, if his wife's health permitted, he had to go to Florida: and of course, could not come to Alabama at all; and "so,"
says he, "you will have to get all the parties interested in the land
11

82

SUPREME COURT.
[Carr vs. Duval et aL]

together, which I suppose you can easily do, as you say they alT
live in the neighbourhood, and have the titles perfected to me; and
in doing so, the titles must be 'conjointly by all the heirs interested
in the land, made and executed; and those who have families, their
wives must assign over and relinquish their right ,of dower." And
then complainant instructs Stephen W. Harris to send or bring the
deed to Tallahassee, to complainant, or to some agent of his. He
also requires, that the boundaries of the land shall be defined; and
concludes by asserting that he deems the agreement closed, and the
land out of the market. The first payment complainant proposed
to make at Tallahassee, in Florida; and there to execute the coitract on his part, by giving his notes for the two remaining instalments, and a mortgage on the land.
The additions to this acceptance of the proposition of the.16th
January, are so numerous and important as to hardly need comment ; when it is recollected that complainant was dealing for the
property, in part, of infants and married women.
it was impossible a conjoint deed could be executed: three of the
pardes had no power to make such a deed; and complainant required a conjoint one by all the heirs interested in the land, and this
made and executed before he would undertake to comply with his
part of the proposed agreement. Furthermore, it was to be made
in Alabama; there signed, sealed, and witnessed, and then to be
delivered in Florida.
The infants, of course, could only act in receiving the money by
guardian; of course, the guardian in Alabama might well question
his authority in Florida.
That the land should be defined, was also a change-; but whether
amounting to a rejection of the proposition of the 16th of January,
was there no other objection to the acceptance, we shall not stop to
inquire.
But if nothing else stood in the way, the time of the acceptancer
is conclusive of the complainant's claim. The letter of the 16th
January desired an answer by return of mail; why, is distinctly
stated. Three other propositions to purchase the ,land had been
made. No answer came by return of mail: and'not until twenty
days after was an answer put in the mail; and by that the parties
were directed to meet complainant at Tallahassee, not immediately,
but presently, of which he was to give them information. By the
terms of the acceptance the time of meeting rested in the discretion of the complainant. He claimed, by his letter of the 3d February, the contract to have been concluded; and, therefore, could,
according to his construction of it, take his own time to order the
respondents to meet him in Florida: and by his note of the 19th
February, he does give them vague instructions of the time.
We think the assumption of the .complainant thus to construe his
acceptance, utterly unwarrantable. The rule laid down by this
Court in Eliason vs. Henshaw, 4 Wheat. 228, is, that an offer of a
bargain by one person to another, imposes no obligation upon the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

83

[Carrvs. Duval et al.]

former, unless it is accepted by the latter, according to the terms in
which the offer is made; and that any qualifications of, or departure from the terms, invalidates the offer, unless the same be agreed
to by the person who made it. Until the terms of the agreement
have received the assent of both parties, the negotiation is open,
and imposes no obligation on either. The party offering to sell or
buy has the right to dictate the terms in regard to the time when
the proposition shall be accepted, as well as to other material circumstances; nor Would the Court be astute to inquire after the reasons why a time for acceptance was fixed. The case cited from
4 Wheaton is full to this point. In the case before the Court, the reasons lie at the surface. Three.other persons were offering to purchase, and it was all-important to know the determination of the
complainant at the earliest day. A stronger case for a prompt answer could hardly be presented. Nor do the circumstances set up
in excuse by-the complainant, such as the situation of his family,
the necessity of attending a Court, or of going to Florida; alter the
case. The complainant, Stephen W. Harris dictated, as he'had the
power to do, an answer by 'return of mail; and if no answer was
had by the return of mail, he was free to contract with another.
If it be doubtful whether an agreement has been concluded, or is
a mere negotiation, Chancery will not decree a specific performance;
the principl6 is a sound one, and especially applicable in a case like
this, where the party attempting to enforce the contract has done
nothing upon it. Haddleston vs. Brisloe, 11 Ves. 522.
It is useless to inquire, in this suit, under what circumstances, partial performance, with compensation, could be decreed, as no case
is presented for splitting up the contract. Stephen W. Harris offered
to sell the whole, and complainant to buy the whole. Nor need we
inquire -wnether Duval and Shepherd were innocent purchasers;
the other defendants having had the right to sell, Duval and Shepherd had the right to buy, of which the complainant had no just
grounds to complain.
We, therefore, order theAecree to be affirmed, with costs.

