JANUARY TERM, 184G.

WILLIAM COVINGTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS.
STOCK, DEFENDANT

DAVID A. Co-

IN ERROR.

An action was instituted in the Qiredit Court of Mississippi, on a promissory note, dated
at and prayable in New York.,, The declaration omitted to state the place at which the
note was payable, and that a demand of payment had been made at that place. The
Court held, that to maintain an actioli against the drawer of a promissory note or bill of
exchange, payable at a particular place, it is not necessary-to aver in the declaration that
the note, when due, was presented at the place for payment, and was not paid; but the
place of payment is a material part in the description .of the note, and must be set out
in the declaration.

IN drror to the District Court of the'United States for the Northern District of Mississippi.
An action was instituted in the District Court of Mississippi, by
the defendant in error, on a promissory note, dated at New York,
March 2, 1836, by which Covington and M'Morris promised to pay
four thousand five hundred and sixty dollars and four cents, six
-months after date, to Nelson, Carleton, and Company, at New York.
The notd was endorsed by the drawees to the defendant iii error,
David A. Comstock.
.The declaration on the note omits to state the place where the
note was payable; and on the trial, the note was offered in evidence,
and objected to by the defendant. The Court allowed the note
to be given in evidence ; on which-'the defendant tendered a bill of
exceptions; and a verdict and judgment having been rendered for
the plaintiff, this writ of error was prosecuted.
The case was argued by Mr. Cocke, with whom was Mr. Key,
for the plaintiff in error: no counsel appeared for the defendant.
Mr. Cocke contended that it was necessary to state the place at
which payment of the note was to be made; and to prove a demand at that place.
'2. That the note being joint, a separate action could not be maintained upon it.

Nothing is clearer, than that a declaration on a note payable at a
particular place, should state the place of payment. The omission
to do this is fatal. Cited, Bailey on Bills, 429. 3 Campbell's Rep.
453. Chitty on Bills, 321. 14 East, 500. 15 East, 110. 5 Taunt.
Rep. 7. 3 Campbell, 248, and note.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought before this Court from the Circuit Court of
Mississippi, by a writ of error.
The plaintiff in the Circuit Court brought his actibn on a promissory note, and stated in his declaration, that the defendant, "heretofore, to wit, on the second day of March, 1836, at New York, to
wit, in the district aforesaid, made a certain note in writing, con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Covington vs. Comstock.]

monly called a promissory note, bearing date the day and year last
aforesaid, -and then and there delivered the said note to Nelson,
Carleton & Co., who are citizens of the state of New York; by
which said note, the said defendant promised, by the-name and style
of Covington and M4Morris, to pay to the said Nelson, Carleton
& Co,, or order, fdrty-five hundred and sixty dollars and four cents,
six months after the date thereof, for value received ; and the said
Nelson, Carleton & Co. then and there endorsed and delivered said
,iote to the said plaintiff," &c.
The defendant pleaded the general issue ; and on the trial, the
following note was offered in evidence.
$4,560 4.

New York, March 2d, 1836.

Six months after date, we, the subscribers, of Columbus, state of
.Mississippi, promise to pay to the order of Nelson, Carleton and Co.
forty-five hundred sixty dollars and four cents,-at New York, for
value received.

Signed,

CovINGTo

& M'Monis.

The defendant objected to the note being given in evidence, on
the ground that there wvas a material variance between it and the
note described in the declaration. But the Circuit Court overruled
the objection, admitted the note in evidence, and entered a jtodgment'
for the plaintiff. The defendant excepted to this ruling oi7 the Court;
and the question now is, whether there is error in the decision of the
Circuit Court.
The note given in evidence was payable at New York; but the
place of payment was not stated in the declaration.
To maintain an action against the drawer of a note or bill payable at a 'particular place, it is not necessary to aver in the declaratiou
that the note, when due, was presented at the place for payment,
and w'as not paid; but the place of payment is a material part in the
description of the note, and must be set out in the declaration.
The place of payment regulates the rate of interest, and in other
respects may become important. A note payable generally, is a
very different instrument from a note given by,the same parties, and
for the same amount, payable at New York. We think, therefore,
that the Circuit Court erred in admitting the note as evidence; for
which cause the judgment is reversed; and the cause -is remianded
for further proceedings in the Circuit Court, where the plaintiff may
move to amend th0 defect in his declaration.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel: on consideration whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by. this Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is here.by, reversed with costs; and that this cause be, nd the slime is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court foir further proceedings to
be had therein according to law and justice, and in conformity to the
ophion of this Court.

