122

SUPREME COURT.

GEORGE RUNYAN, PR'INTIFF IN ERROR, vs. THE LESSEE OF JOHN
G* COSTER AND THOMAS K. MERCIEN, WHO SURVIVED JOHN HONE,
DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
The legislature of the state of New York, on the 18th of April, 1823, incorporated "The
New York and Schuylkill Coal Company." The act of incorporation was granted for
the purpose of supplying the city of New York and its vicinity with coal ; and the company having, at great expense, secured, by purchase, valuable and extensive coal lands
in Pennsylvania, the 'legislature of New York, to promote the supply of coal as fuel,
granted the incorporation, with the usual powers of a body corporate, giving to it the
powers to purchase and hold lands, to promote and attain the objects of the incorporation.
The recitals in ,the act of incorporation show that this power was granted with special
reference to the purchase of lands in the state of Pennsylvania. The right to hold the
lands so purchased depends on the assent or permissionj express or implied, of the state
of Pennsylvania.
The policy of the state of Pennsylvania, on the subject of holding lands in the state bi corporatioris, is clearly indicated by the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, of April 6,
1833. Lands held by corporations.of the state, or of any other state, without license
from the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, are subject to forfeiture to the tommon.
wealth. But every such corporation, its foeffee or foeffees, hold and retain the same, to
be divested or dispossessed by the commonwealth, by due course of law. The plain interpretation of this statute is, that until the claim to a'forfeitur9 is asserted by the state,
the land is held subject to be divested by due course of law, instituted by the common-.
wealth alone, and for its own use,
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania having decided that a corporation has, in that state,
a right to purchase, hold, and convey land, until some act is done by the government, according to its own laws, to vest the estate in itself; thi~estate may. remain in a corporation
so purchasiig or holding lands: but such estate is defeasible by the commonwealth.
This being the law of Pennsylvania, it must govern in a case where land in Pennsylva.
nia had been purchased by a corporation created by the legislature of New York, for
the purpose of supplying coal from Pennsylvania to the city of New York.
The case of Fairfax vs. Hunter, 7 Cranch, 621, cited with approbation.
In the case of the Bank of Augusta vs. Earle, 13 Peters, 584, and in various other cases
decided in the Supreme Court, a corporation is considered an artificial being, existing
only in contemplation of law ; and being a mere creature of law, it possesses only those
properties which the charter of its creation confers upon it, either expressly, or as incidental to its very existence. Corporations created by statute must depend for their. powers,
and the mude of exercising them, upon the true construction of the statute.
A corporation can have no legal existence out of the sovereignty by- which it is created ;'as
it exists only in contemplation of law, and by force of the law: and when that law ceases
to operate, and is no longer obligatory, the corporation can have no existence: It must
dwell in the place of its creation, And cannot migrate to-another sovereignty. But
although it may live and have its being in that state only, yet, it does not follow that its
existence there will not be recognised in other places,; and its residence in, one state
creates no insuperable objection to its power of contracting in another. The corporation
must show that the law of its creation gave it authority to make such contracts. Yet,
as in the case of a natural persqn, it is not necessary that it should actually exist in the
It is sufficient that its existence, as
sovereignty in which the contrac is made.
an artificial person in the state of its creation, isacknowledged and xecognised by the
state or nation where the dealing takes place; and that it is permitted by the laws of that
place to exercise the powers with which it is endowed.
Every power which a corporation exercises in another state, depends for its validity upop
the laws of the sovereignty in which it is exercised.- and a corporation can make no valid
contract, without the sanction, express or implied, of such sovereignty; unless a case
should be presented in which the right claimed by the corporation should appear to be
secured by the Constitution of the United States.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

123

[Runya n vs. The Lessee of Coster et'al.]

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
This was an action of ejectment, brought in the Circuit Court of
the District of Pennsylvania, by the defendant in error, the lessee of
John S. Coster and Thomas K. Mercien, citizens of New York, for
the recovery of a tract of land in Norwegian township, Schuylkill
county, Pennsylvania. The defendant in the Circuit Court was in
possession of.the land.
The title of the lessors of the plaintiff below was founded on a
patent from the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, dated December
23, 1824, to Benjamin Pott, granting three hundred acres of land to
him, in Schuylkill county; a survey of the land, and a deed executed
on the 17th of March, 1830, by which the patentee conveyed the
land to John G. Coster, John Hone, Moses Jaques, and Thomas K.
Mercien, of the city of New York, trustees for, the stockholders of
the corporation known under the name of the New York and
Schuylkill Coal Company, as well for such persons as were then
stockholders, as for such persons as might afterwards become stock,holders.
The New York and Schuylkill Coal Company was incorporated
by the legislature of New York, on the 18th of April, 1823.
Moses Jaques, one of the trustees, by direction of the company,
conveyed the right and interest in the land held by him under the
deed from Benjamin Pott and wife, to the other trustees, on the
same uses and trusts. The lessors of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court,
survived John Hone.
The defendant below, without offering any evidence, insisted and
prayed the Court to charge the jury that the plaintiff, upon the evidence, was not entitled to recover; but the Court gave the contrary
direction.
The jury having given a verdict for the plaintiff below, in conformity with the directions of the Court, and a judgment having
been entered on the same, the defendant prosecuted this writ of
error.
The case was argued by Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in
error; -and by Mr. Budd, with whom was Mr. Sergeant, for the
defendant.
Mr. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, said, that the case of the
United States Bank v*s. Earle, 13 Peters, 587, rendered much argument unnecessary. From that case he gathered, 1. That corporations are local as well as artificial bodies; 2. With no powers but
what charters create; 3. Especially no extra-territorial powers, but
by comity ; 4. That although Courts may award the comity of the
state ; 5. Yet it must not be contrary even to the policy or the interest of the state; still less its law, written or common; 6. That
corporations may act extra-territorially, by agents. Whether his was

SUPREME COURT.
[Runyan vs. The Lessee-of Coster et al.)

the burden of disproving the comity, might be questioned; but he
assumed it so far, to show the general rule of Pennsylvania, if the
defendant appeals to an exception, let him show it.
The law, as settled in 13 Peters, turns on personalty. This is a
case of reality; and" all legislatiAh is jealous, and jurisprudence exclusive, as to land. Story's Chflict of Laws, 363. Jackson vs.
Ingraham, 4 Johns. 182. United States vs. Crosby, 7,Cranch, 115.
iBeatty vs. Knowler, 4 Peters, 168. The law of the state of Pennpylvania is deeply imbued with this principle; even in cases in which
corporate powers are not involved. Williams vs. Mann, 6 Watts,
278.'

By universal law, title to land begins with the government of
its locality,; and all tenures depend on it. Not, only title, but disposal. In Pennsylvania, the English mortmain acts are in full
force. 3 Bin. 626. 2 Pennsylvania Black. 40. The case of the
l-Methodist Church, 1 Watts, 218. By recent act bf assembly, these
miortmain exclusions are reinforced. Acts of 6th April, 1833.
Thus th e general ruj1e is shown ; and the question is driven to an
exception' It has beeD adjudged in Pennsylvania, that corporations
may take, though -they cannot hold. Leasure vs. Hillegas, 7 Sergeant and Rawle, 313. But this case does not bind as a judgment
on the case in argument, because the former was a case of domestic,
not foreigti corporation. The argument of that case is not to be a
judgment to bind this; and that argument is wrong, for by common
law, corporations may not take. To do so, is not of their nature,
as asserted by Chief Justice Tilghman. 1 Blackstone's Com. 475.
Co. Lit. 40. Indeed, the English mortmain acts are but declaratory of the common law. Ang. and Am. on Corpo. 80. All law,
the original Roman, the English, and the American, require'that
bodies of land shall not be held in mortmain.
2 Kent. Com.
269-283. r Nor is mortmain confined to superstitious or religious tenure, but all holding by any body. Such is the statute
7 Ed. 1 ch. 2., A. D. 1279, enlarging Magna Charta of 1217. -See
Itighmore's History of Mortmain, and Reese's Cyclopmdia. The
law of mortmain forbids all holding of lands by artificial bodies.
And to talk of English common law before 1279, is to recur to ages
when we cannot ascertain what law was. 1 Reeve's History of
English Law, ch. 5, p. 2"29.

Nor is English common law the common law of Pennsylvania;
but the English law adopted as it was adapted. Carter vs. Bladen,
2 Bin. 484. Judge Read, in his Pennsylvania Blackstone, 1 vol.
261, and 2 vol. 40, is explicit, that there is no common law in that

state, but as adopted and modified; and no corporation, but as chartered; no common law corporatiof whatever.
Moreover, there is no analogy, as, supposed, bet_ een the coporative capacity and that of aties, to take land and hold till ousted:
because aliens are presumed to be capable till the contrary is shown.
Gouverneur vs. Robertson, 11 Wheat. 356.
The act of incorporation of this company, is tbpoughly New

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

125

[Runyan vs. The Lessee of Coster et al.]

York. A law-of New York; session 46, ch. 184, p. 217, authorized
it to hold five hundred thousand dollars worth of land in Pennsylvania, for'the benefit of the city of New York ; a sum that would
buy a county, perhaps a state. • Such act is void; not merely voidable: and void, whether the hold it gives over land in Pennsylvania be conferred on a body corporate,, or on: an individual.
Mr. Budd, for the defendants in error, contended, that if their
title were directly in a corporation, not authorized to hold lands in
Pennsylvania; still the position of the plaintiff is untenable, because
the requisitions of the law to divest a title of that description, have

not been complied with. Even under the statutes of mortmain, a
corporation can take, although it cannot hold land as against the
state. The corporation acquires, and may convey "a fee simple,
defeasible by the commonwealth" alone; and until an escheat be
regularly effected, it possesses all the rights and remedies incident
to ownership. The right on the part of the state' to enter, does not
exist until office found. Leasure vs. Hillegas, 7 Sergeant and
Rawle, 313. Baird vs. The Bank of Washington, 11 Sergeant and
Rawle, 418.1 In both of these decisions, the case of an alien is
considered as analogous to that of a corporation; and the doctrine
in Fairfax vs. Hunter's lessee, 7 Cranch, 618, is adopted. There
is no interval between the grant to the corporation, and the completion of the escheat, in which a trespasser can intrude. The
plaintiff is really adverse to the state; and his success here would
impair its rights, if any exist, which for the purpose of the present
occasion he professes to vindicate. If the title be void, as is contended, then it never vested in the corporation, nor in trustees for
the use of the corporation; consequently, the right of escheat can,
not exist. It is therefore essential that the state should be able to
trace the title to the corporation. Possession by the corporation is
also important for the purpose of the escheat; for how can it be
effeated, when the person in possession does not claim under a corporation ?
The 'right of possession being in the corporation, the right to sue
to recover it, must also exist. In Leasure vs. Hillegas, the plaintiff
was alienee of the corporatior, and his right to sue. was sustained.
The right to sue is essential to the protection of all other rights.
The doctrine, that the rights of a corporation to sue out of the place
of its locality, arises from comity, and cannot exist in opposition to
the laws of the state in which the suit is instituted, is inapplicable
to the present case; for there is in Pennsylvania no such prohibition;
and the escheat laws evidently admit the existence of rights in corporations, over lands which they are not licensed to hold; which
Courts will aid them to enforce as against strangers. No authority
has been adduced to sustain that distinction between domestic and
foreign corporations.
Remington vs. The Methodist Church,
1 WattsO, 218, is a construction of the act of Assembly of 1730, relating exclusively to-religious societies; and the case in 6 Watts,
L2

126

SUPREME COURT.

[Runyan vs. The Lessee of Coster et al.]
280, refers to the exercise of judicial authority, and not to the
voluntary appointment of trustees.
The act of Assembly of the 6th of April, 1833, which has been
relied upon by the opposite counsel, prescribes a mode of proceeding which must be. pursued before any argument derived from it
can be sustained. It makes no distinction between domestic and
foreign corporations. The right of a corporation to hold and retain
the land subject to be divested or dispossessed at any time by the
commonwealth,. according to due course of law, is conceded by the
preamble. tier title is to be established, and her right authenticated by "solemn matter of record," which is the only evidence of
the right of the state. Even after the inquisition directed by the
first and the fifth sections, no powei exists in any officer of the state
to declare the land forfeited; but the proceedings are to be reported
to the legislature. It is consistent with the spirit of the act, to suppose, that as the corporate franchise, and not the corporators, was
the object of hostility, no course detrimental to the latter would be
pursued; but only such measures operating on the officers of the
company as would prevent future attempts to exercise corporate authority in the state. The second section contains a release, which
the defendants in error, if they were at any time within the prohibition 'of the law, would claim the benefit of before the inquest.
The place and form of the trial, and the officer to conduct it, aye
prescribed; and it is incompetent for the plaintiff in error to make
a different selection. A reward to informers is prohibited, and it is
made the duty of a public officer to collect the evidence, thereby
excluding the interference of strangers. But if the act were adverse to the defendants, as their title was acquired prior to its passage, it should not be cQnstrued as having a retrospective operation
to their injury
But the disability qf corporations is not in the present suit a consideration of the great importance which has been .ascribed to it;
as the defendants in error are trustees, and hold the legal title,
which is all that is requisite in the action of ejectment. 9 Johns.
Rep. 60. It is of no importance in -acontroversy with a stranger,
for whom they hold. But it is said, that the trust is void. If it be
so, what becomes of the legal estate? It cannot revert to the
grantor, for he has received a valuable consideration for it. If there
be a trust resulting by inplication of law, would it not be for those
who paid the purchase money? Or if the trust be void, would not
the trustees hold the land discharged of the trust ?-a doctrine which
is sanctioned by the case of the Attorney General vs. Sir George
Sands, Hard. 495. 4 Kent's Corn. 426. In either event the title
of the defendants in error would be unassailable. In the case of
an alien, it has been determined, 41that the king cannot be entitled
on inluisition; for the estate in law is in the trustee, not in the
alien, but he must sue in Chancery to have the trust executed."
I Comyn's Digest, 559.
The commonwealth, therefore, could
not acquire title until the legal estate had vested in the corporation

JANUARY TERM, 1'840.

127

[Runyn W. The'Lessee of Coster et al.]

The plaintiff in error had no claim to the consideration of a Court
of Equity, but that defect in his case cannot aid him in a Court of
law. He cannot ask the Court to look beyond the legal title, that
he may discover and be assisted by a weakness in the trust, the investigation of which is foreign to the purpose of the action of ejectment. The argument that the trust is void and extinguished, if
correct, would, in the present action at least, leave the legal estate
unaffected; and in qny other proceeding the defefidants in error are
prepared to show such a conformity to the laws of Pennsylvania,
as will be amply sufficient for their protection. That a rpode exists,
or can be devised, by which a trust for a corporation shall not pro,
tect the estate from forfeiture may be true; but in the prosecution
of the remedy, that "due course of, law," alluded to -in the preamble to the act of Assembly of the 6th of April, 1833, should
never be lost sight of. The right to sue in the federal Courts, does
not depend on the capability of the cestui que trust, as has been repeatedly determined.

4 Cranch, 306.

8 Wheat. 642.

. The trust in this case was not, as is alleged, created by a corporation, but by Benjamin Pott, the giantor. If it had been, there
is nothing in the charter of the New York and Schuylkill Coal Company, which prohibits the creation of trusts; much less is there any
prohibition of a contract with 'trustees holding lands in Pennsylvania, to enable the company more efficiently to prosecute the business for which it was organized.
Having considered the insufficiency of. the case of the plaintiff in
error, even if the title were in a corporation not licensed to hold
lands in Pennsylvania, and also the further obstacle arising from the
trust, it will now be proper to inquire into the -actual character of
the title of the defendants in error. - It is denied that it is a trust for
a corporation. If there be any doubt upon this point, it should operate in favour of the defendants; for the Court, adopting the usual
mode of construction,.will give a strict construction to statutes so
highly penal as the statutes of mortmain, and the act of Assembly
of the 6th of April, 1833. In resisting an attempt to cause a forfeiture, our conveyance is entitled to the most favourable construction. The title is in trust for the "individual stockholders" of the
company,, which is a description of persons sufficiently precise.
There is no title given to the corporation. The corporation has no
control over the property, -other than that of ordering sales; an
authority designed to hid the execution of the trust, and protect it
from abuse. Its officers could neither cut the timber, nor break the
soil. It can exercise no authority over the rents and profits. "If
the charter were to be repealed by the legislature of New York, according to the power reserved in it, or from any other cause it were
to cease to exist, the title would not be affected by it. The assist-,
ance of the directors in effecting sales could be dispensed with; and
thus the only connection between the trustees and the corporation
be terminated. The latter clause of the trust refers to the charter,
not for the purpose of deriving authority from it, but merely to de

128

SUPREME COURT..
[Rnyan v. The Lessee of Coster et al.]

signate and ascertain the correct organization of the body which is
to exercise the authority given by the deed of trust. As the power
to sell is derived from the deed of trust, and not from the charter ; the
phrase "in virtue of their charter," can have no other meaning. it
is an authority designed to save the ,trust from abuse. It might be
exercised by a stranger. Suppose a trust for an infant, and the
trustee is 4uthorized to sell, as directed of a corporation or an alien,
would the title be 'in the corporation or alien ? If the authority to
superintend sales had been given to anp other corporation, would
the 'title have been in it, and not in the trustees, for the use of the
individual stockholders of the New. York and Schuylkill Coal Company ? How can it be said that the corporation holds the land, or
that it :is held in trust for it, when the trust is expressly declared to
be for the individual stockholders; and the connection with the corporation is limited to an authority to order sales, the existence of
which power, as it may be exercised by the stockholders, is not essehtial to the execution of the trust. But it is averred that the trust
is illegal and void, although it be for an unincorporated association;
but no authority has been referred to which sustains the position :
Remington vs. The Methodist Church, as has already been staied,
relating exclusivelyto religious associations. The defendants do not
claim to derive title under any statute of New York, or any corpo-'
ration chartered by that state; but from a conveyance executed in
conformity to the laws of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Justice THoMpsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on a writ of error from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
It is an action of ejectment brought to recover possession of about
two hundred and thirteen acres of land, in the township of Norwegian, in the county Vf Schuylkill. Upon the trial, the lessors of the
plaintiff gave in evidence a warrantissued by. the secretary of the
land office, in the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, authorizing a
survey for Benjamin Pott, for the quantity of land applied for by
him, bearing date the 23d of December, in the year 1824. And also
a survey of the land, containing two hundred and thirteen acres and
fifteen perches, accepted on the I ith August, 1825, embracing the
land in controversy;, together with a deed from Benjamin Pott and
his wife, to John G. Coster, John Hone, Moses Jaques, and Thomas
K. Mercien, for the same premises, bearing date the 17th of March,
in the year 1830, conveying to them in fee simple the said lands,
upon certain trusts therein specified, to the sole use and behoof of
the several individual stockholders of the corporation known under
the name, style, and title of the New York and Schuylkill Coal
Company. And further gave in evidence, a deed from Moses
Jaques, one of the trusiees, to John G. Coster and Thomas Mercien,
the two surviving trustees named in the last mentioned deed, bearing date the 25th of July, 1837, releasing and conveying to his said
co-trustees, in fee simple, all, his right, title, interest, and trust, in law

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

129

[Runyan vs. The L'essee of Coster et al.]

or equity, in the premises,- to hiave and to hold the said tract of land
to them, th' ir heirs and assigns forever; to such uses and upon
such trusts as are mentioned and contained in said deed. The death
of John Hone, one of the trustees named in the first mentioned deed,
having been proved, and that the defendant, John Runyan, was in
possession of the premises when the suit was commenced, the plaintiff rested the cause : and thereupon the defendant, without offering
any evidence, insisted and prayed the Court to charge the jury that
upon this evidence the plaintiff was not entitled to recover. The
Court refused to give such charge ;but, on the contrary, directed the
jury that the plaintiff was entitled to recover: whereupon the defendant tendered a bill of exceptions.
The question presented by this bill of exceptions is, whether the
lessors of the plaintiff, being trustees of a corporation in the state of
New York, could, under the laws of the state of Pennsylvania, take
the estate conveyed by Benjamin Pott and his wife to the trustees
of that incorporation. If the lessors of the plaintiff had the legal
estate in the premises in question vested in them, their right to recover followed as matter' of course'; nothing having been shown on
the part of the defendant to impugn that right.
The rights'and powers of a corporation were very fully examined
and illustrated by this Court, at the last term, in the case of the Bank
of Augusta vs. Earle, 13 Peters, 584. In which case, and in various
other cases decided in this Court, a corporation is cansidered an artificial being, existing only in contemplation of law; and being a mere
creature of the law, it possses only those properties which the charter of its creation confers upon it, either expressly, or as incidental to
its very existence. That con orations created by statute must depend
for their powers and the mode of exercising them, upon the true
construction of the statute. A corporation can have no legal existence out of the sovereignty by which it is created ; as it existsonly
in contemplation of law, and by force of the law: and that when
that law ceases to operate, and is no longer obligatory, the corporation can have no existence. It must dwell in the place of its creation ; and cannot migrate to another sovereignty. But, although it
must live arid have its being in that state only, yet it does not follow
that its existence there will not be recognised in other places; and
its residence in one state creates no insuperable objection to its
power of contracting in another. The corporation must show that
the law of its creation gave it authority to make such contracts.
Yet, as in the case of a natural person, it is not necessary that it
should actually exist in the sovereignty in which the contract is made.
It is sufficient that its existence as an artificial person in the state of
its creation, is acknowledged and recognised bk the state or nation
where the dealing takes place ; and that it is permitted by the laws
of that place to exercise there the powers with which it is endowed.
Every power, however, which a corporation exercises in another
state, depends for its validity upon the laws of the sovereignty in
which it is exercised; and a corporation can make no valid contract,
17

SUPREME COURT
[Runyan vs. The Lessee of Coster et al.)

without the sanction, express or implied, of such sovereignty,: unless
a case should be presented in which the right claimed by the corporatior should appear to be secured by the Constitution of the United
States.
Under 'this general view of the rights'and powers of a corporation,
and the limitation upon the exercise of such powers in places out of
the -jurisdiction where granted ; the applicition of them to the case
now, before the Court is the next subject of inquiry.
The po'wers vested in the trustees of the New York and Schuylkill-Coal Cpmpany, and the right to take the estate, and execute the
trusts vested in them by the deed from Benjamin Pott and his wife,
will depend upon the act of incorporation by the legislature of New
York, of the 18th of April, '1823. The recital in that act shows that
the incorporation was granted for the purpose of supplying the city
of New York and its vicinity with coal: and that the,'company
had, at great expense, secured the purchase of valuable and extensive coal lands in the state of Pennsylvania; and that the legislature
being disposed to encourage the -developement of our internal resources, and being sensible of the importanceof a supply of fuel to the
city, and for the better security of the persons investing their money
in an undertaking so extenzsive, and requiring so large a capital,
granted the incorporation, with' the usual powers of a body corporate ; and giving to the corporation the right' to purchase, hold, and
convey any estate, real or personal, for the use of the said corporation; provided, that the real estate or their interest therein, so to bo
holden, shall be such only as shall be requisite to promote and obtain
the objects of the incorporation.. The right o purchase and hold
real estate is, therefore, expressly vested in this corporation ; and the
recitals show that this power was granted with special reference to
the purchase of lands in the state of Pennsylvania. And the deeds
'given in evidence show, that the legal estate in the lands in .uestion
is vested in the lessots of the plaintiff, in trust for the, stockholders;
and the trusts therein declared, are for the purposes of carrying into
execution the great and leading object of the corporation. The capacity, therefore, of the lessors of the plaintiff, to take the lands in
question for the use of the stockholders of this incorporation is very
clearly shown. And the right to hold the lands must depend upon
the assent or permission, either express o'r implied, of the state of
Pennsylvania.
The policy of that 'state upon this subject is clearly indicated by
the act of the 6th of April, 1833; relative to the escheat of lands
held by corporations without the license of the commonwealth. It
recites, that whereas it is contrary to the laws. and policy of the
state for any corporation to prevent or impede the circulation of
landed property from man to man, without the license of the commonwealth ;- and no corporation, either of this state or of any other,
state, though lawfully incorporated, can in any case purchase lands
within this state, without incurring the forfeiture of said lands to the
commonwealth, unless such. purchase be sanctioned and authorized

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

131

[Runyan vs. The 'Lessee, of Coster et al.]

by an act of the legislature; but every such, corporation, its feoffer
or feofifrs, hold and retain the same, subject to be divested or dispossessed at any time by the commonwealth, according to due
course of law.
The plain and obvious policy here indicated is, that although
corporations, either in that or any other state, (no distinction being
made in this respect,) may 'phrchase lands within the state of Pennsylvania, yet they shall be held subject to be divested by forfeiture
to the commonwealth. And the act then points out the mode and
manner inwhich proceedings shall be instituted and carried on to
enforce the forfeiture : necessarily implying, that until such claim to
a forfeiture is asserted by the state, the land is held subject to be
divested by due course of law, instituted by the commonwealth
alone: and this conclusion is fortified by the provision inl the fourth
section of the act, that the rights of common informers in relation to
escheats, shall not apply to proceedings under this statute. But it
is made the exclusive' duty of the escheator to prosecute the right
of the commonwealth to such. lands.
'The doctrine of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in the case
of Leasure vs. Hillegas, 7 Binney, 313, is directly applicable to this
case. The question then before the Court was as to the right of
the Bank of North America to purchase, hold, and convey the
lands in question: and the Court took the distinction between the
right to purchase and the right to hold lands, declaring them to be
very different in their consequences: and that the right of a corporation in this respect was like an alien, who has power to take, but
not to hold lands: and that although the land thus held by an alien
may bR subject to forfeiture after office found, yet until some act is
done by the government, according to its own laws, to vest the
estate in itself, it remains in the alien, who may convey it to a purchaser; but he can convey no estate which is not defeasible by the
commonwealth. Such being the law 6f Pennsylvania, it must
govern in this case. But the principle has received the sanction of
this Court, in the case of Fairfax vs. Hunter, 7 Cranch, 621 ; where
it is said, that it is incontrovertibly settled upon the fullest authority,
that the title acquired by an alien, by purchase, is not divested until
office found.
We do not enter at all into an examination of the question
whether any, and if any, which of the English statutes of mortmain
are in force in Pennsylvania- but place our decision of this case
entirely upon the act of that state, of the 6th of April, 1833, and the
doctrine of the Supreme Court in the case of Leasure vs. Hillegas;
which we think clearly establish the right of the lessors of the plaintiff to hold the premises in question, until some' act shall be done by
the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, according to its own laws, to
divest that right, and to vest the estate in itself. The legal estate is
accordingly in the lessors of the plaintiff, and the defendant cannot
set up any right of forfeiture which the state of Pennsylvania may

132

SUPREME XCOURT.
[Runyan vs. The Lessee of Coster et at.]

assert. That is a matter which rests entirely in the discretion of
that state.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly affirmed, with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that
the' judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the.
same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

