SUPREME COURT.,

TaE LESSEE oF HENRY BREWER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. JACOR
BLOUGHER AND DANIEL BLOUGHER, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
Construction of the act of the legislature of Maryland, passed December session, 1825,
entitled, " An Act relating to Illegitimate Children," which provides that " the illegitimate
child or children of any female, and the issue of any such ciild or children," are declared
capable in law "to take and inherit both real and personal estate from their mother end
from each other, and from the descendants of each other, as the case may be, in like manner as if born in lawful wedlock."
J. S., who had several, children who were the children of an incestuous connection, conveyed
a tract of land in the state of Maryland to one of those children. The grantee died intestate and without issue, seized in fee of the land. Two brothers and one .sister of this
incestuous intercoyrse survived him. Held, that under the act of Maryland, "relating
to Illegitimate Children," they inherited the estate of their deceased brother.
It is undoubtedly the duty of the Court to ascertain 'the meaning of the legislature from the
words used in the statute, and the ubject matter to which it relates; and to restrain ita
operation Within narrower limits than its words import, if the Cou't are satisfied that
the literal meaning of its language would extend to cases which the legislature never
designed to include in it. According.to the pf'inciples of the common law, an illegitimate child is filius nullius, and can have no father known to the law : and when the
legislature speaks in general terms of children of that description, without making any
exceptions, the Court is bound to suppose they design to include the whole class.

AN a~tion of ejectment was instituted by the plaintiff in, error, a
citizen of Pelisy!vania, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Maryland, for the recovery of a tract of land
situated in Allegany county, in the state of Maryland, called "Part
of Grassy Cabin."
The following were the facts of the case, as agreed upon by the
parties to the suit.
John Sloan, late of Allegany county, was twice married ; by his
first wife he had but one child, namely, Mary Sloan; and by his
second wife he had the following children, namely, William Sloan,
John Sloan, Elizabeth Sloan, Peggy Sloan, Sally Sloan, and Jane
Sloan: and that the plaintiff's lessor is the husband of the said
Elizabeth.

* After the death of his second wife, John Sloan lived and c.habited with and married Mary Sloan, his daughter, by his first wife,
and had by her the following children, viz.: William Sloan, John
Joseph Sloan, Mary Sloan, Jesse Sloan. and David Sloan; and
William Sloan is since dead.
The said John Sloan, the father, was many years ago seized and
possessed of a tract of land lying in Allegany county, Maryland,
called "GrassyCabin," containing four hundred twenty-seven and
one-fourth acres, to which tract he had an undisputed legal title.
* The said John Sloan being so seized and possessed of the said
tract of land, conveyed the same for a valuable consideration, by a
deed of bargain and sale, duly executed, acknowledged, and re-

/corded according to law, to John Joseph Sloan, and that the said

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

179

[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

John' Joseph Sloan became and was seized and possessed of the
said tract of land, under and by virtue of the said deed.
The said John Sloan, the father, and Mary Sloan, his said daughter, by his first wife, bothtdeparted this life about the'year 1826, and
the said John Joseph Sloan died about the year 1832, seized and
possessed of the said tract of land, intestate, and without issue, and
unmarried; leaving Mary Sloan, Jesse Sloan, and David Sloan, his
brothers and sister, children of the said Mary Sloan, by her said
father as aforesaid, him surviving.
That the said Mary Sloan, Jesse Sloan, and David Sloan, being
possessed of and claiming title to the spiid tract of land, called
"Grassy Cabin," by descent from the said John Jose-qh. Sloan, conveyed the same, by a deed of bargain and sale duly executed, acknowledged, and recorded according to law, to Jacob Blougher and
Daniel Blougher, the defendants.
After the death of the said John Joseph Sloan, the plaintiff, Henry
Brewer, obtained out of the Western Shore land office, a special
warrant of escheat, to re-survey and affect, the said tract of land,
called "Grassy Cabin," for an alleged want of the heirs of John
Joseph Sloan, who died seized thereof, in fee, and intestate as aforesaid; and the patent was granted to the said Henry Brewer.
The, pdtent was in legal form, and recited the escheat of the land,
"for want of heirs of John Joseph Sloan, who died seized of the
premises."
The question for the 'decision of the Circuit Court, upon these facts
was, Whether, upon the death of the said John Joseph Sloan, according to the laws and statutes of Maryland, the said tract of land,
"Grassy! Cabin," did not pass by descent to the said Mary Sloan,
Jesse Sloan, and David Sloan, his illegitimate sister and brothers as
aforesaid. If the Court shall be of opinion that tle said tract of
land did not so pass by descent, then judgment to be given with
costs for the plaintiff. If the Court shall be of opinion that the said
tract of land did so pass by descent, then judgment, to be given with
costs, for the defendants. Either party to be at liberty to appeal or
sue out a writ of error; it being admitted that the value of the land
in controversy is at least twenty-five hundred dollars.
The Circuit Court gave a judgment for the defendants; and the
plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Pigman, for the plaintiff inerror,
who also submitted a printed argument by Mr. Mayer, also for the
plaintiff. 'A printed argument for the defendants was submitted to
the Court by Mr. Price.
Mr. Pigman, for the. plaintiff.
The plaintiff in error, being a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania,
claiming title to the tract of land called "Part of Grassy Cabin,"
which is mentioned in the declaration in the record, as being in
Allegany county, in the state of Maryland, brought his action of:

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Brewer vs, Blougher.]

ejectment against the defendants in error, residing in the latter
state, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, to try his title to said tract of land. The plaintiff holdg
title to his land by patent from the State of Maryland, issued by the
legal authorities of that state, upon an escheat warrant from the
land office, by virtue of the acts of Maryland, of October session,
1780, ch. 51, sec. 5, and 1781, ch. 20, sec. 8. The plaintiff ap-

plied to the land office of the state of Maryland for his escheat
warrant, upon the ground that one John Joseph Sloan died in the
state of Maryland, intestate, seized in fee simple of the land mentioned in his patent, without issue, and without heir or heirs who
could have inherited. The facts upon which the questions of law
will arise are settled by agreement filed by consent, and makepart
of the recprd.
The act of 1780, ch. 51, sec. 5, enacts "that any lands within
the state of Maryland, of which any person shall die seized in fee
simple, without any heir of the whole blood who could inherit, or
without leaving any relative of the half blood, such lands shall
escheat to the state."
And by the act of 1781, ch. 20, sec. 8,
escheat warrants are authorized to be issued 'from the land office
"when the owner shall die intestate, seized in fee simple, without
having any relation of the half blood within two degrees, as the
same are reckoned by the common law, and without leaving any
relation who might inherit."
It appears by the agreement of counsel filed in the cause, that one
John Sloan, late of Allegany county, was twice married: by his
firstwife he bad but one child, namely, Mary Sloan; and by his
second wife he had the following children, namely, William Sloan,
John Sloan, Elizabeth Sloan, Peggy Sloan, Sally SloPLn, and Jane
Sloan.
After the death of his second wife, the said John Sloan lived, and
cohabited with, and married Mary Sloan, his said daughter by his
first wife; and had by her the following children, namely, William
Sloan, John Joseph Sloan, Mary Sloan, Jesse Sloan, and David
Sloan; and that William Sloan is since dead.
The said John Sloan being seized and possessed of a tract of land'
lying in Allegany county, called " Grassy Cabin," containing four
hundred twenty-seven and one-fourth acres, conveyed the same by
deed of bargain and sale, for a valuable consideration, to the said
John Joseph Sloan.
The said John Joseph Sloan died about the year 1832, seized and
possessed of the said tract of land, intestate, and without issue, and
unmarried, leaving Mary Sloan, Jesse Sloan, and David Sloan, his
brothers and sister, children of the said Mary Sloan, by her father,
as aforesaid. The said Mary, Jesse, and David, conveyed the said
tract of land by deed to Jacob Blougher and Daniel Blougher, the
defendants.
After the death of the said John Joseph Sloan, the plaintiff in error
obtained out of the Western Shore land offce, in the state of Mary-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

181

[The Lessee of Brewer v8s.Blougher.]

land, a warrant of escheat, to re-survey and affect the said eract of
land, called '1 Grassy. Cabin," for want of heirs of John Joseph
Sloan, and obtained his patent, which patent appears in the record.
The question for the decision of the Circuit Court by the agreement filed, was, whether upon the death of the said John Joseph
Sloan, according to the laws and statutes of Marylafhd, the said
tract of land, called " Grassy,6abin," did not descend to the said
Mary Sloan, Jesse Sloan, and David Sloan, his illegitimate sister
and brothers, as aforesaid. The Circuit Court, upon the facts stated,
gave judgment for the defendants, upon the ground that the said
tract of land did descend to the said Mary Sloan, Jesse Sloan, and
David Sloan. From which judgment the plaintiff appealed to this
Court,
It is admitted in the statement of facts that John Joseph Sloan,
and his brothers and sister the children of John and Mary Sloan, as
aforesaid, were illegitimate;the marriage of the father and daughter
being prohibited and made void by a law of Maryland, entitled,
"an act concerning marriage," passed in 1777, ch. 12.
At common law, therefore, John Joseph Sloan, and his brothers,
and sister, being bastards, in the eye of the law, were nullius filius,
and 'incapable of inheriting as heirs either to their putative father,
or mother, or to any one else; and John Joseph Sloan, in regard to
the common law, having died intestate, and without heirs of his
own body, the tract of land called, "Grassy Cabin," escheated to
the state of Maryland, and was properly granted by patent to the
plaintiff in error.
But it is contended on the part of the defendants, that by a law
of Maryland, of 18251 ch. 156, entitled, "an act relating to illegitimate children," the brothers and sister of John Joseph Sloan, who
survived him, were such heirs at law, and relations of their deceased
brother, to whom his said estate might descend; and that said estate
did'not, therefore, escheat to the state of Maryland.
We contend on the part of the plaintiff in error, that the Circuit
Court committed an error in this ; that upon the statement of facts
and the laws of the state of Maryland, the judgment of the Circuit
Court ought to have been given, for the plaintiff, and not for the
defendants:
1. Because the plaintiff's patent for his land, issued by the legal
authorities of the state of Maryland is good, and that he had, therefore, a right to recover his title in the Circuit Court : the said John
Joseph Sloan having died intestate, without issue, or heirs or relations that could inherit.
2. Because, notwithstanding, by the letter of said law, there is
but one category of illegitimate children ; it was never inteoded to
extend to children of incest; and more especially to children of incest
from father and daughter.
3. Because he law of 1825, ch. 156, from its ette and terms, is
morally and legally impossible to be executed w th a iy reasonable
certainty; and cannot be ekecuted in any of its partsi if the whole
VOL. XIV,-Q

18

SUPREME COURT.
[TheLessee of Brewer w. Blougher.]

ought not to be received, in consequence of the absurdities to which
it leads.
4. Because the proviso of the law is repugnant to, and contradicts its purview, or first providing clause, and renders the whole
null and void.
5. Because it was not, the intention of the legislature to embrace
any illegitimate children, *but those who could be legitimated by
marriage and acknowledgment of the parents.
With.regard to the first hnd'second points, it is not necessary to
proceed with an extended argument, because the correctness of the
position contained in them depends upon the other points stated,
and more especially, perhaps, on the fifth.
In regard to the third, it is proper to observe, that the act of
1825, eh. 156, has never received any construction by the Maryland
Courts; and is,,therefore, open for the judgment of this Court, and
must now be finally settled by it.
As it stands upon the statute book with all its latitudinous letter,
it is sui generis. Though of an exceedingly general and comprehensive character, it occupies but a small space in print. At a first
glance, it: appears to be sensible enough, as the offspring of a grave
legislative body. But when we approach it ,with sedate and sobeX
inquiry, to ascertain its meaning and bearing, and the great'design
of the Maryland lawgivers of 1825-; it may be termed not inaptly,
monomaniac; without great caution in bringing to our aid the most
rigid rules of construction, it will carry Maryland back, without the
intention of her legislature, to the most dark and uncivilized ages
of antiquity., It is no well inspired oracle, but rather a rickety
bantling of the law, that ought not to thrive in the nursery of judicature.
To enable us the more clearly and-successfully to present our
objections to this act, we will preaont, to the Court the incontrovertible law maxim settled by Lord Coke, and his associates, in Dr.
Benham's caqc, in 4 Coke's Reports, 368. It was in that case:
settled, that, when an act of Parliament is against common right
and reason, or repugnant, or impossible to be performed, the common law shall control it, and adjudge it to be void. In discussing
this maxim, so sound and pregnant with good sense, we shall apply
it by analogy to the act under consideration.
This maxim, if applicable to the act in question, will not only be
entitled to great reverence and respect, but will be received as
proper law, to overthrow and altogether reject the act of 1825.
All legislative enactments which change and restrain the common
law, shall M3taken stricti juris, 19 Viner's Abridg. 524, see. 125;
and this rule will be claimed as settled, both in regard to our objections to the act in lintine, which are intefided to overthrow and
reject it; and in discussing its merits, when looking for the meaning
and intention of the legislature.
The original design of the first move of the Maryland legislature
of the session of 1825, appears to have been to provide, that from

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

183

(The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher]

and after the passage of the act, the illegitimate children of any
female should be able and capable in law to take and inherit both
real and pers6nal estate from their mother, or from each other derived from their mother, in like manner as if born in lawful wedlock.- This, with proper guards and limitations, would have been
seihsible and right enough; and the only mischief to result from it,
would be to indirectly encourage the illicit commerce of the sexes.
But it more accords with natural justice, that the illegitimate
children of any female, within proper limits, should inherit her
estate, rather than her brothers and sisters anq other collaterals.
But how utterly thoughtless and careless, even in this, the legislature has been! Suppose such female should have illegitimate
children by one man, and afterwards marry another, and have
children in lawful wedlock, and dies seized of real and personal
estate: how shall such estate descend? To he illicit, brood exclusively, or to both illicit and marriage children? Suppose such
female should have illegitimate children by one man, and afterwards marry 'another, and have lawful children; and afterwards
break away from her husband, to whom she was affianced, which
often happens, and have children in adultery, and finally, she dies
intestate, leaving real and personal estate: how will such estate
descend ? To the first illicit brood, the second set in marriage, or
the third in adultery, or will it descend equally among all ?
Suppose further, that such female should have illegitimate children:
by a negro, which we know often happens in the lower ranks of
life, after she has had white illegitimate children, and dies intestate
seized of real and personal estate: is it to descend equally among
the blacks .and whites? We have no definitions, limitations, or
guards in all such matters; except the proviso, so important to the
purity and correctness of social intercourse in the state. And even
in regard to the right of inheritance of illegitimate children from
their mother, for the want of proper guards, the act in question is
clearly unreasonable. And if the naxim of Lord Coke, that "an
act of Parliament against reason is void," is to be received in this
Court; the law ought to be rejected, and all.claims to titles to property under this law ought to be arrested by the judgment of this
CQur.
But the act of 1825, ch. 156, is still more unreasonable, and objectins increase and thicken, upon us as our examination is in progress. From the careless manner of its enactment, the legislature
has rendered itself liable to be misunderstood, and its teue'intention
frustrated. It has, indeed, if the letter be adhered to, made a general act to direct, descents for the benefit of all' illegitimate children
of any female who is the propositus in the law, and who is to be
the stirps whence these relations are to branch out, from fathers
and mothers without marriage; and this too, embracing bastards
issuing from adultery, and from incest of father and dat hter, and
even son ,and mother; -if the .depravity of the human heart shall
ever let loose such unbridled passions: and also embracing in its

184

SUPREME COURT.
,[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

confusion, bastards lineal and collateral, running into the same
incest and adultery, and bastards of colour mingled with whites,
and all too in like manner as if born in lawful wedlock. But in
such a state of illegitimacy, how could persons and families proceeding from such female, as the root, establish their right to inherit
any estate from each other? According to the position assumed,
(i. e. if the letter be strictly adhered, to,) here is a general act to
direct illegitimate- descents; and all the issue both lineal and colla
teral, in the ascending and descending lines, to endless generations,
would be capable of inheriting from the "female," who is named
as the propositus in the laW. Does it -require any argument to
demonstrate that such a law could not be enfbrced, because it would
be impossible to trace such issue with any thing like 'certainty?
Yet if the law be received by this Court in the full sweep of its
letter, it must stand in the statute book like' all other acts to direct
descents, for the benefit of all persons claiming under it. But how
could be traced the ailcestors of a bastard, up to a grandfather or
great grandfather, grand uncle or great grand uncle, in the ascending line; or the reverse in the descending line, all too, in bastardy.?
When lineage is traced within the pale of wedlock, there is evi
dence and certainty to rest upon; but without that sacred union,
all i incertitude and confusion. To ascertain the pedigree of an
individual whose ance'tors were all bastards, would be impossible.
It is, therefore, impossible to execute the law, according to the letter;
and it cannot be so received by judicature.
Suppose Maryland, or any state in this Union, should pass a
general law to' direct descents of real and personal estate, out of
wedlock. Could it lead to any thing else but absolute confusion?
But if the letter of the act of 1825, ch. 56, be adhered to, it is
necessarily just Such a law as that supposed; and necessarily leads
to the same absurdities and unreasonable results, and is equally
impossible to'be executed. Can it, then, be received in one part, if
the whole together is Unreasonable and inipossible 'to be executed.4. The proviso~of the law is repugnant to, and contradicts its purview or first providing 'clause, and renders the whole null and void.
The proviso is as follows: "Provided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to alter or change the law respecting illegitimate persons, whose parents may after the birth of such persons,
and who are by them acknowledged, agreeably to the seventh section of the act of Assembly, passed at December session, eighteen
hundred ard twenty, chapter one hundred and ninety-one."
There is no principle better settled, than that if the proviso is directly repugnant tO the purview, the proviso shall stand and operate
as a repeal-of the purview. 19 Viner's Abridg. 522, see. 105.
Is this proviso, then, directly repugnant to the purview? The
purview changes the law of 1820, ch. 191, sec. 7, inthis; it allows
tle illegitimate child or children of any female, to inherit bt4: real
and personal estate from 'their mother, or from each other, without
marriage or acknowledgment of the father. Whereas, the act of

JANUARY TERM,1840.

185

[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Bloughr.]

see.,.7,"will not allow any illegitimate child or chi'd1820,toch.
ren,
be 191,
capable in law to inherit and transmit inheritance, without marriage and acknowledgment of the father. It is evident,
therefore, that the act of 1825 intended to change, and did actually
change, that of 1820, which the proviso declares shall not be altered
or changed.
The proviso declares that the law of 1820 shall stand firm, without change or alteration ; and the act of 1825, quoad hoc, makes a
very material change and altcration. Without such change and alteration, the law of 1825 would be wholly useless.
The proviso, therefore, is clearly repugnant to the purview, and
overthrows the law altogether.
The counsel for the defendafit has filed his brief, in which he does
not deny that the proviso is repugnant; but simpIy states, that the
proviso has nothing to do with this question. He was invited by u,
to discuss the proviso, but has declined it.
By the fixed rules of law, we must give the act of 1825 a strict
construction, as it intends to change thetommon law. The common law, we learned in our early studies, is the perfection of reason,
and is, always jealous of its own importance; and requires every
statute which invades itm authority to be carefully Watched and
strictly-construed.
How, then, by strict construction, can this proviso be otherwise
than repugnant? Will the Court be disposed to keep 'strictly to the
fetter in the purview, and depart from it in the proviso ?
The proviso strangled the act of 1825, and it fell stillborn from
the hands of the law makers, before it sa* the light, to annoy and
-disturb the good order and purity of social, intercourse. For with
the entire latitudinous results to which ifleads, if unrestrained by judicial powers, it will be "a horrid monster, huge, shapeless, and deConceived in ignorance, and "brought! forth by
prived of sight,
presumption ;" or rather perhaps from carelessness more 1han inorance.
Will the Court depart-from the rule, and give the act of 1825 a
liberal construction, instead of holding it stricti juris? Will it apply
the proviso to something beyond its letter, to bring it, into harmony
with the purview, and prevent it from being repugnant, and so save
the law from its own nugatory terms?
One of the maxims of Lord Coke, that in regard to a repugnant
clause, was received, we presume, and acted on by this Court, in the
case of The United States vs. Cantrill,:4 Cranch, 167. That ca e
was certified from the Circuit Court of the District of Georgia, and
arose under the act of Congress of the 27th June, 1798, made to
punish frauds committed on the first Bank of the United States.
Cantrill was indicted for falsely and feloniously uttering and publishing, as a true bank bill of the United States, with intent to defraud one William Gibson, a certain false, forged, and counterfeit
paper, partly written and partly printed, purporting to be a bank
bill of the United States, for ten dollars, sigued by Thomas Willing,
24
q2

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Brewer vs. B1Qugher.]

president, and G. Simpson, cashier. Upon a verdict of guilty, a
motion was made in arrest of judgment, and reasons filed, one of
which was, " Because the act of Congress, passed 27th June, 1798,
entitled, ' An act to punish frauds ommitted on the Bank of the
United States,' under which the prisoner is indicted, or so.much
thereof as relates to the charge set forth in the indictment, is inconsistent, repugnant, and therefore void."
The act of Congress, as far as it describes the offence charged
against Cantrill, is in the following words: "If any person shall
utter or publish as true, any false, forged, or counterfeited bill or
note, issued by order of the president, directors, and dompany
of the Bank of the United States, and signed by the president,
and countersigned by the cashier thereof, with intention to defraud said corporation," &c. &c.
The question being submitted without argument, Chief Justice
Marshall delivered the opinion of the Court, that the judgment ought
to be arrested for tlae reasons assigned in the record. The words in
italics were held to be inconsistent and repugnant, inasmuch as they
made it a crime to publish as true any false, forged, or counterfeit
bill or note, issued by order of the president, directors, and company of the Bank of the United States, signed by the president,
and countersigned by the cashier. A note issued by the order of
the board, and signed by the president, and countersigned by the
cashier, being genuine, could not be false and forged, and could not
be falsely uttered and published, and put into circulation by Cantrill
or any one else, and the law was, therefor#, inconsistent and repugnant. Congress was afterwards obliged to amend the law in this
respect.
5. That it was not the intention of the legislature by the act of
1825 to embrace any bastards, except such as could be legitimated
by marriage. We have examined with great care, and reflected
much upon this branch of the cause. The law of 1825, and all
other laws of Maryland, to, which it refers, or to which it has any
affinity, in regard to. the commerce of the sexes, law ful or illicit,
have been carefully examined, weighed and considered ; and all the
authorities, American and British, and of other civilized states, in
the least calculated to ijlustrate and enlighten on this point, have
been collected for the examination of the Court. The result has
always been the clearest conviction that the legislature of Maryland
did not, at the time of passing the act of 1825, think of or intend
any illegitimate child or children,.except such as could be le~itimated by marriage. If any other interpretation shall be made and
prevail, however well intended, it will, we hold, be a violation of
the legislative will.
In the argument upon this poia, we shall take the following positions as true and incontrovertible. 1. That all civilized states have
l oked upon, incest with the greatest abhorrence. 2., That no civilized state has at any time permitted illegitimate children, proceeding
from inest, to inherit. 3. That it will be a aoveie internretation of

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

1,87

[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Bloughqr.]

the act Of 1825, to settle down upon Maryland a civil code, by implication, drawn. out of a law having on its face evident signs of being
made in a careless hour; when all otherf civilized states have uniformly rejected such a civil code, and when it cannot be doubted
that Maryland herself would instantly reject such a code, if openly
proposed for her deliberation.
Incestuous marriages have always been regarded with abhorrence
by-the, soundest writers, and the thost polished states of antiquity;
and an incestuous connection between an uncle and niece has been
adjudged, by a great master of public law, a nuisance. 2 Kent, 81.
Burgess vs. Burgess, 1 Haggart's Consistory Reports, 368. And
such a connection was held in equal abomination by Justinian's
Code. Code 5, 8 ; 2. No civilized -state has at any time allowed
by law,. illegitimate children, proceeding from incest or adultery,
to inherit. 5 Wheaton's Rep. 262., Note A. Civil Code of LouNapoleon Code, Illegitimatt
isiana, title, "Illegitimate. Children.
Children.
To sustain the argument upon the fifth and last point, to prove
-that it was not the intention of the legislature of Maryland to embrace any bastards, except such who could be legitimated by marriage, we proceed to lay before the Court all acts of the General
Assembly of that state, which may be connected with the act of 1825,
by reference or affinity, in regard to the lawful or illicit commerce
of the sexes. Several of them, if not all, must be taken in pari ma-teria; and before we are drawn into the vortex of the letter of the
act of 1825, without restriction or limitation, for the better understanding of the intention of the legislature, we will collect all her
.legislation on this subject, to demonstrate and establish the intention
and interpretation for which the plaintiff contends.
The act of 1777, ch. 12, entitled, " An act concerning marriages,"
to prevent incestuous marriages; Settles the degrees of kindred and
affinity, .andmakes the marriage of John Sloan and his daughter
void; and by the second section of the act, a fine of five hundred
pounds is imposed upon persons who violate the law. Here we
will barely remark, that it ought not to be presumed that the Gener.al
Assembly would'authorize the issue of an incestuous marriage
to inherit, when that issue proceeded from a connexion in palpable
violation of a standing law of the state.
The next law which has any affinity to that before the Couri, is
the act to direct descents, 1786, ch. 45 ;,and it is produced to show,
that our legislature has in more than one instance, from negligence,
authorized by the letter of the law a construction which the Maryland Courts would not give; always restraining the letter by judicial power to prevent mischief.
The second section of the act of 1786, ch. 45, provides how land
shall descend, "first to the pliild or children and their descendants,
if any." Now, is not "the child or children" here, as comprehensive as "illegitimate child or children," in the act of 1825 ? And
Would not the words "child or children," in the act to direct descents,

SUPREME COURT.
(The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

if a Court would be governed by the mere letter, embrace any child
or children, in or out of wedlock, of incest, adultery, or of amalgamation ? And yet his honour the Chief Justice knows, that our
constant exposition of the act to direct descents is, that it shall be
confined to a child oi children born in wedlock, or legitimated by
marriage, according to the degrees of kindred and affinity settled by
the marriage act of 1777.
Again, by the seventh section of the act of 1786, to direct descents,
,it is enacted, "that if any man shall have one or more children by
any woman whom he shall afterwards marry, such child or children,
if acknowledged by the man, shall, in virtue of such marriage and
acknowledgment be hereby legitimated, and capable in law to inherit and traasmit inheritance, as if born in lawful wedlock." Now
by the letter of this section, the marriage act is changed; and the
man is at large to marry his daughter or his mother, hi neighbour's
wife, or his negro slave. And yet his honou the Chief Justice
knows, that our uniform exposition has been, that the letter shall be
confined to a woman according to the degrees fixed by the marriage
act of 1777.

The act of 1820, chap. 191, (which is in truth, by the reference in
the proviso of the act of 1825, made part of the latter act,) in its
seventh section, is precisely the same as the seventh section of the
act of 1786, and would by the letter of that sectidn change the marriage act of 1777, and allow a man in the wide field of his lust to
marry his daughter or his mother, his neighbour's wife, or his negro
slave. And yet his honour the Chief Justice knows, that our uniform exposition has been, that the letter, shall be restrained according, to the degrees fixed by the marriage act of 1777.
Can any one doubt that the legislature, when it passed the law
1820, chap. 191,.and copied in its seventh section the entire seventh
section of the act of 1786, ch. 45, had deliberately examined and
considered the seventh section of the act of 1786, ch. 45, and

intended nothing more than a re-enactment of the same matter,
which it was thought fit and proper to be a standing law of the
state? But it may be asked, what proof have we of this? We
answer, that the legislature of 1820 inserted in the seventh section
of the act of that year, v-erbatim et literatim, the whole sevepth section of the act of 1786., Before it was thus copied, it must have
been read, examined, and considered, and the contents fully known
and understood, and must therefore have been fully in the legislative mind. Are we not all clearly satisfied of this? '
Now if the Court shall conclude that the act of 1825 ought to be
received by judicature for grave interpretation, let us apply the
same rule and mode of reasoning by analogy to the acts of 1820 and
1825; and it will be clearly demonstrated that the'act of 1825 did
not intend to embrace any bastards except such who could be legitiiated by marriage.
It appears to us clear, that, to understand fully and without any
misapprehension the act of 1825, that the act and the law of 1820

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

189

[The Lessee of'Brewer vs. Blougher.]

must be taken in pari materia. For this part of ue argument, and
to enable us to apply it with greater force, let us again refer to the
law of 1825. It, is entitled, "An Act relating to Illegitimate Children," and is as follows: "Be it enacted by the General Assembly
of Maryland, that from and after the passage of this act, the illegitimate child or children of any female, and the issue of any such illegitimate child or children be, and they are hereby, declared to be
able and capable ir law to take and inherit both real and personal
estate from their mother or from each other, or from the descendants of each other, as the case may be, in like manner as if born in
lawfulwedlodk: Provided, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to alter or change the law respecting illegitimate persons,
whose parents marry after the birth of such persons, and who are
by them acknowledged, agreeably to the seventh section of the act
of Assembly, passed at December session, eighteen hundred and
twenty, chapter one hundred and ninety-one."
Notwithstanding it is evident that this act was passed in a careless hour, without proper guards and limitations in the purview; the
proviso, although inconsistent and repugnant, will afford us a kcy
to unlock and throw open to our minds the true.meaning and intention of the legislature.
To do full justice to the legislature, the act of 1825 ought to be
received as'an appendix to the act of 1820. The proviso proves to
us beyond all doubt several important matters, to enable us to discern the real intention of the legislature. When that is once clearly
discerned, the judgment of this Court must, we hold, conform to it,
as the only rule of construction.
In the first place, the proviso informs us, by the very special and
particular reference to the year, chapter, and section of the act of
1820, that the committee, or persons having the matter in charge,
had carefully and deliberately examined the act of 1820, and reported their proceedings to the legislative body before the passage
of the law. The'question here is, what evil or grievance did the
legislature discover as still existing under the act of 1820, ch. 191,
see. 7, which ought to be provided for and redressed ? The evil and
grievance discerned was evidently this, and nothing more: 'That by
the act of 1820, ch. 191, sec. 7, no illegitimate child or children
could be legitimated so as to be capable in law to inherit or transmit
inheritance, without marriage and acknowledgment of the father.
If any woman, being seduced by the'artful addresses of a man, shall
have an illegitimate child or children, and die intestate, leaving real
and personal estate, it is but just and honest that such estate shall
descend to her own natural children, in preference to a descent to
her collateral relations. When reading, deliberating on, and exa-.
mining the act of 1820, ch. 191, see. 7, did the legislature find any,
other bastards than such as could be legitimated by marriage ?
Is there the least shadow Of reason to suppose that any others entered
at all into the mind of any member of the legislature? Nay, does
not the proviso itself take us back to the act of 1820, ch. 191, see.

190

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

7, and point, out exaetly the illegitimate child and children the legislature had in view ? If we had been present and witnes ed all tht.
deliberations on the subject; if we had now every member of the
General Assembly before us as witnesses, and they should all inform
us that nothing more was intended than such children as were found
named in the act of 1820, ch. 191, sec. 7,. could it be more conclusive than the information given by the proviso?
The proviso is certainly part of the law of 1825, and must be
brought to our aid in the interpretation of that law. For nothing
is better settled than tlhis, that "one part of an act of parliament may
expound another." 19 Vin. Abr. 527, sec. 1.49, and the references
there. This is often done, even where the-re is no express *saving
in form, when it evidently leads to the true meaning of' the legislature. We be to any Court that shall consider itself in absolute control by the mere letter of this legislative enactment, evidently leading
to mischief; and when the law presents a clear presumption that the
legislature intended something other than the letter. Can we believe
that children of incest, adultery, and aiiialgamation were ever intended by the law? Take out, we pray, this hybridous and impure
issue, or you will do great injustice to the intention of the legislature.
To further illustrate and prove that the legislature by the act of
1825, intended to embrace only such children as could be legitimated by marriage, according to the act of 1820, ch. 191, sec. 7,
we will now refer to several other Maryland laws, which by their
affinity properly belong to the argument. And as we progress, we
shall insist that the legislature, when merely remedying a grievance,
still existing in the state, could not by this enactment, sweeping as
are its terms, have intended to abandon the fixed standard of purity
so long erected by the sages of Maryland.
And what is that standard of purity, as gathered from all her
laws upon the subject? Let us pass them in review, as proposed,
in order to discover it.
By the act of 1777, ch. 12, a penalty of five hundred pounds is
incurred by persons Who shall consummate an incestuous marriage.
By the act of 1715, ch. 27, see. 3, every case of adultery' is
punished by fine.
The commerce of the two races of whites and blacks has, by the
laws of the state, been, strictly prohibited A free negroor mulatto
intermarrying with a white woman, becomes a' slave for life. A
white woman having issue by any negro or mulatto, is made a servant for seven years. White men having issue by any negress or
mulatto, become servants for seven years. Free negro or mulatto
women, having bastard issue by white men, are subject to the same
penalty.

Acts of 1715, ch. 44; 1717, ch. 13; 1728, ch. 4.

Now can it be supposed that the legislature, being cognisant of all
these laws, and knowing the universal sentiment of the state in reference to their purity, could have intended at once to abandon them all,
and provide for all the illegitimate and illicit issue that can by any

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

191

[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

possibility be -reached by the letter of the act of 1825 ? Bear in
mind too, that there never had been in the history of Maryland any
illegitimate children under the fostering hand of the, government,
except such as could be legitimated by marriage. Can it be supposed, then, that the legislature intended thus at once to abandon
all her former policy and purity; and make provision for all the
incestuous, illicit, and hybridous issues within.the scope of the letter
of the act of 1825 ? Surely, surely not.
Throughout the argument, we have held the governing rule to be,
that the judges ought to interpret the law, and not to make or give
law. This rule makes it the more proper that the greatest care and
diligence should be used: first, in bringing to our aid the grand and
leading objects of th Maryland legislature, in passing the law of
1825 ; and then in considering every part of that law with its reference and appendage. When putting a construction upon any
statute whatever, the judges will endeavour to save the legislature
from absurdity and folly; as it cannot be presumed that men of
sound minds would willingly and deliberately stultify themselves.
But above all things, and most especially will the judges endeavour
to arrive at the intention of the legislature; and when that is once
ascertained, readily gratify it, no matter how loose or careless may
be the language in which that intention is clothed. We have endeavoured to show, that any other construction than that for which
we contend, would involve the legislature in folly,; and further, we
think we have disclosed the true, clear intention of the legislature
in passing the act of 1825; both from the universal sentiment of the
state, as well as all prior Maryland laws on the subject, and particularly that important one which the act in question expressly refers
to by year, chapter, and section.
As a leading case upon the construction of statutes, which directs
the judges to restrain the letter in order to get at the intention, we
cite Dr. Bohman's case, 4 Coke's 'Rep. 368. 19 Viner's' Abridg.
514, see. 34; 518, sec. 81, and the note 519, note 522, see. 109,.note
523, sec. 116; 527, sec. 149.

Judges have power over statutes to mouTd them to the truest and

best use. , 19 Viner's Abridg. 528, sec. 154. 158, 159.

When laws or statutes are made, yet there are some things which
are exempted and foreprized out of the provision thereof, though

not expressly mentioned. .19 Viner's Abridg. 527, sec. 147; 524,
sec. 119,; 523, see. 116 ; 51,4, see. 27-31.
Statutes

which restrain the common law to be taken stricti
juris.

19 Viner's Abridg. 524, sec. 125.

Our researches, for the better understanding of the matters involved in this discussion, have informed us, that all civilized states
that have deliberately formed a civil code, uniformly have prohibited the issue from, incest or adultery from the right of inherit4nce. Shall Maryland, then, by mere implication, and a forced construction of a single act of her legislature, evidently made'for another

192

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.

purpose, have a civil code -fixed upon her, that oher'people have
ever abhorred; and Wrhich, if proposed openly,. would be instantly
rejected by her legislature ? Such an important code as that, dissenting from all civilized usage, ought never to be fastened upon
any Aiodern state. We have endeavoured to maintain,, that it is
not the civil code of Maryland, and that it never will be' with the
consent of her people ; and now, as one of her citizens, we enter
our protest against such a presumption.
A printed brief has been filed in Court, by the counsel for the
defendant. But it mistakes our position. It supposes that the
plaintiff desires the Court to punish the incestuous issue of John
and Mary Sloan; and contends that the plaintiff is endeavouring to
make such issue something more than illegitimate. This is not
that, for which the plaintiff contends. The purity of the law, which
always extends less favour to illegitimate children than to legitimate,
was not intended to punish the innocent, but to prevent the illicit
commerce of the sexes. The illegitimate children from the incest
in this cause, are, it is true, illegitimate. But they are not such as
the legislature intended to embrace.
We think we have demonstrated this clearly and successfully to
the Court. If they. were not intended to be embraced -by the legislature, this Court cannot embrace them. If so, this Court would
be making a law, not interpreting that before it.
Mr. Price, for the defendants in error.
John Sloan, having married his own daughter, and having had
several children by her, conveyed to one of those children a tract
of land, and upon the death of such grantee, the rest of the children,
claiming the property by descent, conveyed the same to the defendants in error. The question is, and it is the only question in the
case, whether a good title did not pass by descent from the grantee
of John Sloan to hi brothers and sisters ?
The :at of 1825, cb. 156, (of Maryland,) provides, "That the
illegitimate child or children of any female, and the issue of any
such illegitimate child or children, be, and they are hereby declared
to be, able and. capable, in law, to take and inherit both real .and
personal estate from their mother, or from each other, or from the
descendants of each other, as the case may be, in like manner as if
born in lawful wedlock."
Then follows a proviso, which has no
applicationto the present question.
If this were the case of legitimate children, their right by descent
would not, as it could not, be questioned. But the act provides that
illegitimate children shall inherit "in the same manner as if born
in lawful wedlock."
There is no distinction, therefore, in this-connection, between legitimate and illegitimate children; they all take
alike.
It ii admitted that these children are illegitimate, and in that
respect are within the letter of the law; but it is insisted that they

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

193

[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

are something more than illegitimate, beig -the fruits of an incestuous commerce between the father and daughter, and for that
reason not within the intention of the law makers.
It is supposed that the Court will feel itself called upon to show
its disapprobation of the incest of the parents, by withholding from
their unoffending offspring, property, to 'which, in other respects,
they have a good title. The law, however, declares that the sins
of the parents shall not be visited upon the children. And is this
forbidden by any canon of the moral code ? 'On the contrary, is it
not wise and just to enable the children to rise above the degrading
accidents of their birth, by placing within their reach every means
of improvement, and every incitement to a virtuous and exernplary
. But life?
if they are to be marked and degraded as victims,
why not
carry it out fully and effectually ? Why permit them to vote at the
elections ? or to hold any office ? or to marry into honest families?
or to hold property by purchase ?
It is- conceived to be necessary to punish incest. And how is it
proposed that this shall be done ? It is by sufferitng the guilty to
escape, and by seizing the innocent, and making them bear the
penalty. The parents were permitted to hold and enjoy this property all their lives; and, after their death, the law is to step in and
take it away from the children, as an example to the parents.*
But why speak of punishing incest? It is no crime. These
parents were permitted to'live in open incest, because there was no
laW to punish them. We feel it to be immoral and highly revolting; but, in reference to the criminal law, it is an act perfectly innocent. It is a little surprising, therefore, that the Court should be
called upon to visit, with condign punishment, an act which the law
does not regard as calling for penalty or punishment of any kind..
Mr. Mayer, for the plaintiff in error.
The decision here depends on the constructioil of the law of
Maryland, (1825, ch. 156,) which enacts, "That the illegitimate
child or children of any female, and the issue of such child or children, shall be able and capable in law to take and inherit both real
and personal estate from their mother or from each other, or from
the descendants of each other, as the case may be, in like manner as
if born in lawful wedlock: Provided, that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to alter or change the law respecting illegitinate persons whose parents 'marry after the birth of such persons, and who are by them acknowledged, agreeably to the seventh
section of the act of Assembly, passed at December session, eighteen
hundred and twenty, chapter one hundred and ninety-one."
The defendants claim under the title of one of an incestuous issie;
and upon the ground that one of that issue may inherit front another,
under the law now quoted. The act of 1820, ch. 191, see. 7, reerred to in the proviso of that just recited, declares that "if any man
shall have a child or children by any woman whom he shall afterVOL. XIV.-R

25

194

SUPREME COURT.,
[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougherj]

wards marry, such child or children, if acknowledged by the man,
shall, in virtue of such marriage, be hereby legitimated, and capable
in, law to inherit and transmit inheritance, as if born in wedlock."
A marriage was had between the parents of the incestuous offspring; and it is contended by the plaiitiff, that so far as they were
born before the marriage, they must seek for legitimation under the
act of 1820, ch. 191, sec. 7; and if born after the marriage, they
must rely on 'the marriage as their sanction, if they are to have any
legitimate standing. This latter provision of the Maryland law, and
the cited act of 1825, ch. 156, must be taken together in construction; and we maintain that the whole enactment meant to provide
for those whom it was possible for the marriage ceremony to have
made legitimate; and that when the ceremony has in fact been performed, and yet can in law have no effect, the offspring are not
within ithe contemplation of the act of 1S25, ch. 156: the just deduction from the entire legislation being, that those were regarded who
needed only the lawful union of their parents to make them legitimate,.and that legitimacy in this legislation is thus to be contra-distinguished to illegitimacy. As a part of the 'series of enactment,
there should also be c6nsidered the Maryland act of 1777, ch. 12,
sec. 1, which contains penal prohibitions of marriages within certain
degree . If this interpretation be sound, the offspring in question
could not be within the benefit of the act of 1825, ch. 156, the mar'riage to which they must appeal being unavailing, and no lawful
union-the 'possibility contemplated by the act-being practicable
between their parents. For if we are to characterize the issue, we
must look to the putative and admitted parents, and to the particular case; and seeing the relations of the parties themselves, we must
find that they could not come within the condition of "lawful wedlock," ini
the view ofthe act. They never could have been born
in "lawful wedlock."
Whatever may be our sympathies in such instances, we are constrained to look at pretensions through the stern medium of the
common law policy, disqualifying as it is against the issue of illicit
alliances. 'It makes bo provision itself for such offspring by its
policy, whatever may be the duty of the parents, who are therefore
left free to make retribution to them for the dishonour of their birth.
All statutes 'like that under consideration, interpreted as they must
be in reference to the strict general policy which pervades our common law, are to be limited to the instances clearly within them, and
are to be construed in obedience to the common law principles, so
far as those are not unequivocally superseded by the statute enactment. This view enforces the interpretation we would assign to
the act of 1825, Ch. 156. In the particular case, too, before the
Court, not only does the interpretation contended for subserve the
general policy of the common law, in its repugnance to illicit connexions, but it is demanded by the special odium in Which it denounces such alliances as that which is the revolting feature of this
case; and against which Maryland legislation has so emphatically

JANUARY TERM, 1,840.

195

[The L~eee'of Brewer vs. Bloigher.1

and studiously guarded the social morals by the act of 1777,,,ch. 12.
All such unions and their results seem to be peculiarly offensive to
our common law; andparticularly when of the infamous order of
that which this 'case presents. The offspring of incest are not admissible within the general denomination of mere illegitimate issue,
and should be specially designated to entitle them to' enjoy the advantages of any particular legislation.. 2 Kent'sCom. 71, 72.
However general, then, the terms of a law may be in favour of
illegitimate issue, it is reasonable to require, in conformity with the
feeling the law entertains towards incest, that the common law
regarding marriage as the only test of legitimation, should exclude
incestuous offspring from ordinary illegitimacy, and require them to
be specifically designated. There are many cases where general
terms, which might embrace certain objects, are limited in import
by reference to paramount principles or institutes of the common
law, which are allowed to be invaded only by express terms. The
aversion of the common law may, in its bearing on the exposition'
of a statute, as to illegitimates, be regarded as akin to those jura
naturm which aie termed even leges legum. Hob. 87. Indeed the
common law (2 Kent's Com.-72.

Vaugh. Rep. 206.

2 Vent. 9)

pronounces iti}estuous marriages to be against the law of nature.
There are a number of instances, as marked as that now contended
for by us, of a restricted construction of general words in a statute,
in due respect to a policy, or.to certain deeply seated principles of
the common law. 6 Bac. Abr. Statute, 381-387. 1 B ockenbrough's Rep. 162.,

But however we may. admit that ' the offspring of incest may,
under this act of 182b, be recognispd irt point of parentage as to the
mother, and may inherit her estate from her or from one another, is
collateral inheritarice, asihere claimed, allowed under it ? The act
declares that the illegitimate children of any female may inherit"
real estate from her and from each other. The terin "inherit" has
a technical meaning, and has regard to the principles which at common law regulate the derivation. of estates by descent. The descent
from brother to brother isimmediate, but still parents must be found
who shall be the actual or, assumed fountain of inheritable blood,
and create the kindred of brothers. 2 B1, Com. Q26-223. This
act of 1825 contravenes the common law in its maxim that an illegitimate child is nullius filius only so far as its express provisions
go: and the utmost that can be said as to the parentage With which
it endows the offspring, is, that it gives them a mother It gives
them no father, and does not constitute between the children the relation of brothers and sisters. In Stevenson vs. Sullivan, 5 Wheat.
207, the terms of the Virginia act came irAo question, which allows
illegitimate children to inherit from the mother, and "transmit inheritance" on par' of the mother. The Court determined that descent
was not permitted by the act from brother to brother, not only because the words" on part of the mother" confined the taking by
inheritance through the mother, in the ascending or descending line;

196

SUPREME COURT
[The Lessee of Brewer w. Blougher.]

but also, because, although the bastards, as the Court says, "are, in
these respects, quasi legitimate, they are, nevertheless, inall others,
bastards, and as such they have and can have neither father,, brothers, or sisters."

The Court also say, that in the construction of

the act, "it is never to be lost sight of that the appellants are to be
considered as bastards, liable to all the disabilities to which the
common law subjects them, as such; except those from whiGh the
section itself excepts them; thus indicating that the strict maxims
of the common law are to be adhered to, and the privileges of bastards narrowed in reference to. them in the construction of these
enfranchising acts. Now the terms in the Yirginia act, which
allow the children to transmit inheritance, would, in case of legitimate issue, covet the descent from brother to brother; and yet, even
apart from the restrictive words, "on part of the mother," the Court
regards this transmitting power to the children as not instituting collateral descent, or in other words, as not, ex vi terminorum, creating
the constructive relation of brothers and sisters, without express
words in'the act giving a perfect parentage constructively to the
children. The Virginia act, as explicitly as the Maryland, conferred
a mother on the children; and in giving the children the capacity to
"transmit inheritance," -the Virginia act yields all that the Maryland act grants in declaring that the children may inherit fron/ each
other:, for certainly a collateral descent is a transmission of inheritance. So the case of Stevenson vs. Sullivan treats it, when showing
that, even not regarding the terms "on part of the mother," there
could be no descent in the case from brother to brother, although
the children were endued with the capacity of transmitting inheritance.' According, then, to that decision of this Court, there can be
no inheritance here between brother and brother, under the Maryland act'of 1825; and for the reason there stated, that, although a
mother is recognised by the Virginia act, as in the Maryland,
yet the children had, 'in contemplation of law, no brothers nor
sisters. According to the decision, even without the words "on
part of the mother" being connected with the transmitting of inheritance by the children, their capacity to inherit would be limited to
the estate of the mother. In every case of a descent from brother
to brother, although it is immediate, there must be fathers to whom
the kindred may be traced, although they be not named in deriving
the estate,, which is the subject of the collateral descent, 2 Black,
Com. 226. The paternity is the essential clue to learn the kindred,
whether it be of the whole or half blood; and the primary element
in this ascertainment'is wanting where no father to either party is
to be found, and when the law itself declares that there is none.
The relation of whole and of half blood depend in the derivation
of descent on the question of community of father and of mother,
unless when the estate comes froyn the mother. Stich is the necessary rule from the theory of feudum novum ut antiquum.
Thus it is not sufficient here to say, that by the law of Maryland
the half-blood may inherit among brothers and sisters, for we have

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

197

[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

seen that n ascertained pat.prnity is essential to determine the relation of whole or half-blood among brothers and sisters. The law
of Maryland gives the right to the half-blood only where it is ascertained that there isno brother or sister of ihe whole blood; a provision which looks to the possible existence, at least, of fathers.
Where the law itself, in the confessed circumstances, leaves an utter
blank for the father, and declares it a legal impossibility that there
phould be one, we may at least say that the statute of descent, which
pre-supposes a necessary ascertainment of a father, does not comprehend a case where the law declares itself that there can be none,
and can be no such ascertainment. The case, then, of such collateral succession between illegitimates must be regarded as a casus
omissus from our Maryland Law of Descents, (see the Act of Descents, 1820, ch. 191,) and the common law must regulate as in another case of casus omissus, as the same was done in Barnitz vs.
Cassey, 7 Cranch, 456. There could, then, be no inheritance of the
half-blood between these illegitimates; even assuming that the tests
are erroneous, which an effort has been made to show are those
exclusively applicable.
The result of these views, which conform to the well established
principles of the common law, unimpaired by the act under consideration, is, that the act allows the illegitimate issue to inherit from
their mother, and to inherit from each other estate derived from the
mother, but not estates of purchase, as is the character of the estate
in question in this cause. Ouy exposition gives effect tQ every provision of the act, according an inheritance collateral as well as
lineal; but modifying the scope of the act by rules of the common
law, which wust govern and limit the innovation introduced: unless
those rules be, by the terms of the new legislation, expressly, or by
necessary implication, superseded : an implication so clear and irresistible that no construction of the law is possible, consistently with
the operation of those rules.
The Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case depends upon the construction of the act of Assembly
of Maryland, passed at December session, 1825, ch. 156, entitled,
"An act relating to Illegitimate Children." By this act of Assembly,
"the illegitimate child or children of any female, and the issue of
any such child or children," are declared to be incapable in law "to
take and inherit both real and personal estate from their mother, or
fr)m each other, or from the descendants of each other, as the case
may be, in like manner as if born in lawful wedlock."
It appears from the record, that a man by the name of John Sloan
had several children, who were the iss-ie of an incestuous connection
of a shocking character. He conveyed a tract of land, called "Grassy
Cabin," situated in Allegany county, in the state'of Maryland, to
John Joseph Sloan, one of these children. John Joseph Sloan, the
grantee, died about the year 1832, intestate, and without issue; and
seized in fee simple of this land. Two brothers and one sister, the
,Ft2

198

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Bloughe..]

issue of the same incestuous intercourse, survived him; and they
conveyed the land to Jacob Blougher and Daniel Blougher, the defendants in error.
The plaintiff in error, after the death of John Joseph Sloan, took
out an escheat warrant for the above-mentioned tract of land, upon
the ground that there could be no lawfulheirs of the said Sloan ; and
having obtained a patent for the said land, he brought an ejectment
for it, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland; and the judgment of that Court being against him, the
case has been brought here by a writ of error.
There is no controversy about the facts in the case. It was tried
in the Circuit Court upon a case stated; and has been elaborately
argued here, and many authorities cited to show that the Court, in
construjng a statute, may restrict the literal meaning of the words
used in order to effectuate the intention of the legislature.. The
plaintiff in error contends, that in passing the act of Assembly above
mentioned, the legislature never contemplated a case like the present; and never intended to give the right of inheritance to the children of an intercourse so deeply criminal.
It is undoubtedly the duty of the Court to ascertain the meaning
of the legislature, from the 'words used in the statute, and the subject matter to which it relates; and to restrain its operation within
narrower limits than its Words import, if the Court are satisfied that
the literal meaning of its language would extend to cases which the
legislature never designed to embrace in it.
In the case before us, the words are general, and include all persons who come within the description of illegitimate children. According to the principles of the common law, an illegitimate child is
filius nullius, and can have no father, known to the law. And when
the legislature speak, in general terms, of children of that description,
without -making any exceptions, we are bound to suppose they design to include the whole class. And, as illegitimate children, in a
question as to the inheritance or distribution of property, can have
no father whom the law will acknowledge as such; how can we, in
a controversy like'this, inquire who was the father of these children,
in order to determine upon tLeir right to the property ?
The expediency and moral tendency of this new law of inheritance, is a question for the legislature of Maryland, andnot for this
Court. It seems to have been supposed by the legislature, that as
there could be no doubt of the relation which the mother bears towards her illegitimate children, the reasons of policy which must
always preclude such children from claiming the inheritance of any
one, upon the ground that he was their father, do not apply to the
property of the mother, or the property +,f each other. To this
extent, therefore, the right to inherit is given by this act of Assembly. And'it,,would appear to have been given upon the principle,
that it is unjust to punish the offspring for the crime of the parents.
The right of the children, therefore, is not made to depend upon the
degree of guilt of which they were the offspring. All illegitimate

JANVARY TERM, 1840.

199

[The Lessee of Brewer vs. Blougher.]

children are the fruits of crime; differing indeed, greatly, in its degree
of enormity. And the legislature, if it had seen proper to do so,
might undoubtedly have made the right to the inheritance todepend
upon the character of the offince committed by the parents. But they
have used no language showing any such design. On the contrary,
they appear to have looked at the unoflending character of the children, rather than at the criminal conduct of the parents, of whom
they were the offspring.
ithas been said that the expressions in the enacting clause of
this act of Assembly, which declares that the illegitimate children
spoken of shall be capable of inheriting from their mother and
from each other, "in like manner as if born, in lawful wedlock,"
imply, that those children only were intended to be provided for,
whose parents were capable of contracting a lawful marriage with
each other. The same argument has also been urged upon the
proviso, which declares, that nothing in the law shall be construed
"to change the law respecting illegitimate persons whose parents
marry after the birth of such persons, and who .are by them acknowledged agreeably to the seventh section of the act of Assembly, passed at December session, 1820, ch. 191.'
We do not perceive the force of this argument. It is admitted
that the act of Assembly, now in question, must be taken in coninection with the previous laws of Maryland regulating the descent of
real estate, and the distribution of personal property; for this law
forms a part of the entire system of legislation on these subjects.
But the expressions referred to in the enacting clause, so far from
implying that the parents may marry, presupposes that they never
will marry;. and provides for the children on that account. The
expressions are evidently used merely to denote, the shares and proportions in which such children are to take ; and the reference for
the rule is made to children born in wedlock, in order to save the
necessity of introducing into this law, a table of descents as to real
property, and of distribution as to personal.
In relation to the proviso, it is proper to remark, that the rights
of primogeniture were abolished in Maryland, by the act of 1786,
ch. 45. There was a provision in this law declaring that illdgitimate children whose parents afterwards married, and acknowledged
them, should be thereby legitimated, and made capable of taking
and inheriting property as if born in lawful wedlock. The act of
1820 embodied the original act to direct descents, with its various
supplements, into one law; and provided for'some lawslof descents
which had before been omitted. This act of Assembly, of course,
contained the clauise in favour of illegitimate children whose parents
should afterwards marry, which had been introduced into the act
of 1786, and which had always been the law of the state, from the
time that act went into operation. And the proviso in the act of
Assembly now in question, was introduced manifestly from the apprehension that the general expressions of the enacting clause of
the law might be held to reach those whose parents afterwards

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Brewer v8. Blougher.]

married, and deprive them of the greater rights of inheritance which
belonged'to them under the previous acts of Assembly. The proviso, like the expressions in the enacting clause, shows that the
legislature were not looking to children whose parents would probably marry, but to children whose parents 'never would marry;
and they make no distinction between the issue of those who could
not, and of those who would not become lawfully joined in wedlock.
If from any cause whatever, the parents were never married, the
children were illegitimate; and all illegitimate children, under this
act of Assembly, may inherit from their mother and from each
other. It follows, that the tract of land called "Grassy Cabin,"
upon the death of John Joseph Sloan, descended to his brothers and
,,sister, before mentioned; and the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
This cause came on tW be heard on the transcript of the record
from 'the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment
of the. said Circuit Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

