THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

JOSEPH EVANS,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS.
DEFENDANT

IN

STERLING

H.

GEE.

ERROR.

It is the settled doctrine of the Supreme Court of the United Stales that a writ of error
does not lie from the Circuit Court,on a refusal of a motion to quash an execution; such
refusal not being a final judgment, under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789.
The opinion of the Court on the case of Boyle vs. Zacharie and Turner, 6 Peters, 648,
cited and affirmed.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama.
In the Circuit Court of Alabama, an action was instituted by
Sterling H. Gee, the defendant in error, against Thomas Evans, on
a bill of exchange drawn by Harris G. Evans in favour of Thomas
Evans, on George M. Rives of Mobile, for five thousand three hundred' and fifty dollars, dated 16th December, 1834, due twelve
months after date, negotiable and payable at the office of discount
and deposite of the Branch Bank of the United States at Mobile;
for value received; and protested for non-acceptance
The declaration does not charge that notice of the non-acceptance
was given to the endorser. No proof was given at the trial of such
notice.
To this declaration the defendant (the endorser of the bill) demurred, and the plaintiff was nonsuited: afterwards, at the same term,
the nonsuit was struck out, and the cause continued. At the next
term 1a jury was empannelled, who, found a verdict for plaintiff, on
which judgment was entered.
Thomas Evans, the defendant in this judgment, d'ed 12th September, 18'37; and, on the 16th March,. 1838, a fieri facias issued
on the judgment.
VOL. XIV.-A
1

2

SUPREME COURT.
[Evans vs. Gee.]

The administrator of the deceased made a motion to quash this
execution at May term, 188 : but the Court overruled the motion;
and gave judgment, sustaining the execution.
The defendant urosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Key for the plaintiff in error.
counsel appeared for the defendant.

No

For the plaintiff in error it was contended, that the judgment of
the 'Circuit Court was erroneous, because it did not appear on the
record that a plea was filed by the defendant to the plaintiff's declaration; or that any issue was joined before the trial of the cause.
2. No notice of the non-acceptance of the bill of exchange was
charged in the declaration, nor proved at the trial.
3. No judgment was given by the Court on the demurrer of the
defendant.
4.. The judgment of the Circuit Court
sustaining the execution
was erroneous.
Mr. Key stated that the cause had. been brought up, mainly, upon
the motion to quash the execution; and the question was, whether
the Court. would sustain a writ of error on that ground. He cited
4 Cranch, 324; 6 Cranch, 233, 235; 7 Wheat. 534; 8 Peters, 259.
In the case before the Court, the execution was issued, against-the
property of a dead man. Thomas Evans died in 1837. A case was
decided by this Court which goes fully up to the question in this
case. Boyle vs.-Zacharie and Turner, 6 Peters, 648.
Mr. Justice CATooN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The principal matters appearing in the record are not now open
to investigation, being the same adjudged of by this Court in 1837;
the report of which is found in Il Peters, 81.
The original judgment against Thomas Evans was rendered at May
term, 1836., No execution seems to have issued until 16th March,
1838, when one was taken out bearing teste the second Monday of
October, 1837, and returnable the second Monday of April, 1838.
Nothing appears in the record showing that Thomas Evans was
dead, save an affidavit of one of his sons, and the circumstance that
the administrator's name is used in prosecuting the writ of error:
but no suggestion of the death of Thomas Evans, nor any revival
of the judgment against his administrator, is found.
The execution was levied on sundry slaves, and a bond given for
their delivery, which recites that the execution, in virtue of which
the levy was made, bore teste at May term, 1836; and to this date
the writ may have had relation, by the laws of Alabama, and the
facts of the case.
One of the sons of Thomas Evans made an affidavit, stating his
father to have died on the 12th day of September, 1837, on which
the motion to quash the execution and delivery-bond was founded.
The motion was refused; but for what particular reason, does not

JANUARY TERM '1840.

3

[Evans vs. Gee.]

appear; nor does this Court feel itself authorized to inquire. It is
the settled doctrine here, that a writ of error does not lie upon the
refusal of a motion to quash an execution: such record of refusal
not being a final judgment in the sense of the twenty-second section
of the Judiciary Act. We will content ourselves by referring to the
opinion of the Court in the cause of B9yle vs. Zacharie and Turner,
6 Peters, 654. It is therefore ordered, that the writ of error be dismissed, and the supersedeas discharged.
This cause came on to be heai d on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that this writ of error be,
and the same is hereby, dismissed with costs; and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to proceed therein according to law and justice.

