JANUARY TERM, 1840.

ISAAC T. PRESrON, ExEcUTOR OF JAMES BROWN, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

mV,.
RICHARD R.

KEENE, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Louisiana. A paper was executed by R. R. K., of the city of New Orleans, stating that the
grantor, for, and in consideration of, a certain lot or parcel of land, (describing it,) conveyed and transferred to J. B. and S. B. all his right, title, and interest in a certain tsact
or parcel of land, (describing it,) hereby warranting and defending unto the said J. B.
and S. B. all his right and title in the same, and unto all persons claiming under them.
The paper called, under the laws of Louisiana, "An Act of Sale," was signed by R. R.
K., J. B., S. B., and a notary of New Orleans; and was deposited in the office of the notary.
This was not " an exchange," according to the laws of Louisiana; and J. B. and S. B.
did not, by accepting the transfer of the property made by the same, and signing the
paper, incur the two obligations imposed on all vendors by the Civil Code-that of delivering, and that of warranting, the lot of grond sold to R. R, K.-and did not thereby
become liable for the value of the property stated in the said "Act of Sale" to .iave been
given for the property conveyed thereby.
"Exchange," according to the Civil Code of Louisiana, imports a reciprocal contract; which,
by article 1758 of that Code, is declared to be a contract where thie parties expressly enter
into mutual agreements.
An exchange is an executed contract: it operates, per se, as a reciprocal conveyance of the
thing given, and of the thing received. The thing given or taken in exchange must be
specific, and so distinguishable from all things of the like kind as to be clearly known,
and identified. Under the Civil Code of,Louisiana, the exchanger who is evicted has
a choice either to sue for damages, or for the thing he gave in exchange. But he must
first be evicted, before his cause of action can accrue.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for East Louisiana.
In May, 1338, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Ninth Circuit and Eastern District of Louisiana, Richard Raynal
Keene filed his petition against Isaac T. Preston, as executor of
T
James
Brown, deceased, alleging that, by virtue of a notarial contract, made in New Orleans, on the 21st day of August, 1807, the
said James Brown and his brother, Samuel Brown, also since deceased, became bound for a valuable consideration, &c., to convey
and deliver to the petitioner a lot-of ground' of specific dimensions,
containing seven thousand two hundred square feet, situated in or
upon the New Orleans or Gravier batture.
The case was argued by Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Clay for the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Jones and Mr. Key for the defendant.
. The decision of the Court having been made, principally, on the
facts of the case, the arguments of the counsel are not stated.
The case was tried before the Circuit Court, upon the evidence
and exhibits in the same; and a decree was rendered for the complainant for thirty-five thousand five hundred dollars; or that the
defendant, the executor of -James Brown, should, on or before the
10th day of July then ensuing, convey to said plaintiff, with good
VOL. XIV.-M

SUPREME COURT.
[Preston vs. Keene.]

and legal title, a lot of ground of the value of thirty-one thousand
five hundred dollars, containing sixty feet in front by one hundred
and twenty feet in depth, situated on the batture in front of the
suburb St. Mary, in New Orleans, the same that was adjudged to
John Gravier by the Superior Court of the late Territory of Orleans,
in the month of May, 1807; then said judgment, exclusive of costs,
shall be deemed satisfied.
The defendant prosecuted this appeal.
The record from the Circuit Court of Louisiana brought up all
the testimony exhibited in the cause before that Court.
Mr. justice BARBOUR delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before us, by appeal,.from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Lou.
isiana.
It was a petition, according to the course of practice in that
state, but which we consider as substantially a bill in equity, filed
by the appellee, against the appellant, as executor of James Brown
deceased; stating, that James arid Samuel Brown had become
bound for a valuable consideration, by them received, to convey to
him a lot in New Orleans, by a notarial contract, bearing date 'the
21st of August, 1807; that,,he had in vain demanded of James
Brown a fulfilment of his contract in relation to the lot ; that said
James Brown having died, and constituted the appellant his executor, by his last will, the executor had duly qualified as such,and
taken upon himself the burden of its execution. And praying,
thai said Brown's executor might be condemned 'and adjudged, to
convey and deliver to him, with good and valid title, the said lot, or
to pay to him the value thereof; which he stated to be, at the time
of filing his petition, thirty-seven thousand five hundred dollars.
Brown's executor answered, setting forth the origin and character
of his right to the lot in question : that it was a lot in the batture of
New Orleans; that a certain John Gravier had, by a judgment of
the Superior Court of Orleans, recovered the batture in front of the
suburb of Saint Mary; that he had sold two-thirds thereof to Peter
Delabigarre, who sold one-half of his interest to Edward Livingston; that Delabigarre died, having by his will appointed certain
trustees, with direction to make partition of said batture ; that the
trustees and Livingston did make partition thereof on the 14th of
August, 1807, in which it was acknowledged that a certain lot
therein described, which is the one now in question, was to be conveyed to James Brown, who had been employed as counsel in prosecuting the claim of Gravier to the said property ; and the trustees agreed to convey to James Brown the said lot, out of their
proportion of the batture; that it was in consideration of James
Brown's right, such as before stated, in a lot, on the batture ; that
Keene made the conveyance in the notarial act of the 21st of August, 1807. He denies that Brown ever conveyed, or agreed himself to convey title to the lot to the plaintiff, but only agreed to

JANUARY TERM,

1840.

135

[Preston' vs. Keene.]

substitute plaintiff to himself, to receive such title as the representatives of Delabigarre and Livingston could make. He avers, that
on the day after the notarial act aforesaid, to wit, the 22d of August, 1807, Brown addressed a letter to the executors of Delabigarre, acknowledging that the plaintiff had become the owner of
the lot due to him by Edward Livingston, and requesting them to
execute to the plaintiff the necessary deeds to convey the property.
Livingston, it seems, was the one who had employed Brown in
Grav -r's suit, to prosecute the'claim to the batture; and the lot .in
question was to be Brown's compensation for his services.
The answer, then, relies upon certain correspondence between
Keene and Brown,in relation to this lot, as explaining the understand,
ing of the parties, as to the nature of the contract between them concerning it. The answer avers that Keene was one of the counsel
for the corporation of New Orleans, in Gravier's suit against them
for the batture; that he was perfectly acquainted with Brown's
right to the lot; and that it was the right of Brown thus known to
him, and not a title from and warranted by Brown, which was the
consideration of the deed, or notarial act of sale, of the 21st of August, 1807, which is that on which Keene founded his right of recovery. The answer, finally relies on the prescription of one, five,
ten, twenty, and thirty years. The Circuit Court decreed in favour
of Keene, thirty-one thousand five hundred dollars, with costs; and
that if Brown's executor, should, by*a given day, convey to Keene
a lot of that value, containidg sixty feet in front, by one hundred
and twenty feet in depth, situated on a part of the batture particularly described, then that the judgment, exclusive of costs, should
be satisfied.- From that decree, this appeal is taken.
The following is the notarial contract, or act of sale annexed to
Keene's petition, and on which his claim is founded.
"Know all men by these presents, that I, Richard Raynal Keene,
of the city of New Orleans, for and in consideration of a certain
lot or parcel of land, consisting of sixty feet front and one hundred
and twenty feet deep, situated on the batture, lately decreed and
adjudged to John Gravier by the Superior Court holden in said
city, have conveyed and transferred, and by' these presents do convey and transfer unto James Brown and Samuel Brown, of said
city, all my right, title, and interest in and to a certain tract or parcel
of land, consisting of five acres front and forty acres deep, and'
situated at the English turn on the left bank of the Mississippi,
be the same more or less; which said tract of land,' I, the said
Keene, purchased in the year 1805 of Helene Modeste Barbinn6e
Guinault, hereby warranting and defending unto the said James,
and the said Samuel, all my right and title, as aforesaid, and unto
all persons claiming under them."
The first question which arises, and that, indeed, which lies at
the very foundation of the case, is, what is the true interpretation
of this act of sale, or notarial contract ?
On the part of the appellee, it is contended that it is an exchange;

136'

SUPREME COURT.
[Preston vs. Keene.]

that by the Civil Code of Louisiana, in every contract of exchange,
each party is individually considered in the double light of vendor
and vendee; that Browri being considered as vendor of the lot
stated in the act of sale, and the lot being the consideration for
Keene's conveyance, it follows, that he incurred the, two obligations
which the Civil Code imposes on all vendors, to wit, that of delivering,, and that of warranting, the thing which he sells; that
'Brown has failed in the fulfilment of both of these obligations, and
consequently, was liable to the decree which has been, made, as the
just equivalent for their non-fulfilment. AMsuming the contract in
,question to -be an exchange, there is no doubt but that the obligations attached to it, and the 'conseq4uences which flow from it, are
accurately stated in this summary of the appellee's argument.
But let us examine whether the contract in question is of the
class to which this course 'of reasoning assumes that it belongs.
In article 2630 of the Civil Code, an exchange is defined to be "a
contract by which the contradtor's .give to one another one thing for
another, whatever k~ be, except money; for in that case, it would be
a sale."
This definition proves, as the term exchange, ex vi termini, imports, that it is what is denominated in the Civil Code, a reciprocal
contract; which, by article 1758 of that Code, is declared to be a
contract, where the parties expressly enter into mutual engagements.
The question then, is, does the act of sale now under consideration
contain mutual engagements?
Itcommences in the first person: "]1,Richard Raynal Keene." It is
he, and he only, who speaks throughout the whole instrument; from
its commencement to its termination; James and Samuel Brown
are mentioned as grantees only; -but they do not profess to grant to
Keene, no part of the :language being theirs; the intestimonium
clause is also in the first person, lluS.: "In testimony whereof, I
hereto subscribe my name, this 2.st, of August, 1807 ;" that is, I
Richard Raynal Keene. The engagement, then, contained in this
instrument, is that of the person speaking in it, whose language
constitutes the very instrument itself. But there is no mutual engagement on the part of the Messrs. Browns, because they do not
speak; and therefore, the language of the grantor, professing to
convey property, cannot have the eflect of converting the grantee
himself into a grantor, by the very terms which describe and treat
him as grantee. only. It seemed to be supposed, that the construction of the act of sale ought to be affected by the circumstance,
that the Messrs. Brown also signed it. No such effect can be produced, because the difficulty still remains, that it is Richard Raynal
Keene, andhe only, who speaks in'the instrument; their signature,
therefore, cannot cause, the language of him who alone speaks in
the instrument, to be ascribed to those who do not.
Moreover, they signed it for no such purpose ; they did it only,
as we feel ourselves authorized to suppose, in accordance with the
usage, where instruments are executed before a notary, as this was,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

137

[Preston vs. Keene.]

and for the purpose of indicating their willingness to accept the
grant. That such is he purpose for which grantees sign acts of
sale executed before a notary, is proven by the record in this case;
for we find, that one in which Davis grants land to Jones is signed
by Jones also; and states upon its face, that the grantee was present,
and.accepted the grant.
The truth is, that the lot of land, now in question, is not otherwise mentioned in the act of sale than as mere matter of recital.by
Keene, the grantor, as the consideration which moved him to make
the grant. It is, therefore, undeniably true, that he alone speaks in
the instrument, as well in regard to the land conveyed by him, as in
relation to that which induced him to make the conveyance.
. But there are other difficulties in the way of the appellee's construction. An exchange is an executed contract: it operates, per se,
as a reciprocal conveyance of the thing given, and of the thing received in exchange. Now, so far from this ground being taken in
Keene's petition, it will be seen that his allegation is, that the
Messrs. Brown, for a valuable consideration received, became
bound, by the act of sale of the 21st of August, 1807, to convey and
deliver to him a lot of ground, as described in his petition; whereas,
the argument at the bar assumes, that the act of sale was itself the
conveyance.
Again: the lot in question is only described as to the extent of its
front and depth, its situation on the batture, and the fact of its having been recently adjudged to Gravier by the Superior Court of
Orleans; but it is not at all described by metes and bounds: and
there were many lots on the batture to which the, general description would equally apply. Now it enters into the very idea of an
exchange, that the thing given or taken in exchange shall be specific, and so distinguishable from other things of the like kind as to
be clearly known and identified. The necessity of the identification
of the subject matter of an. exchange will be rendered apparent by
this consideration; that by article 2633 of the Civil Code, the exchanger, who is evicted by a judgment, of the thing he has received
in exchange, has his choice either to sue for damages, or for the
thing he gave in exchange. But he must first be evicted before his
cause of action can accrue, Now it is obvious to remark, that this
eviction cannot occur in a case where the thing supposed to have
been received in exchange is not specific; is not designated so'as to
be distinguishable from many others of the like kind; and where,
therefore, there could not be a violation of either of the two obligations imposed by the Civil Code on all vendors; 1st, that of delivering, and 2d, that of warranting the thing sold: not of the first, because, until it was designated, it could not be delivered; not of the
second, because, not having been delivered, there could not be an
eviction.
We think, then, that the act of sale in this case, was in. no just
sense an exchange ; nay, that it in itself imported no contract what18
2

SUPREME COURT.
[Preston vs. Keene.]

ever on the part of the Messrs. Brown to convey the lot in question
to Keene.
If, indeed, it could be considered as amounting to a contract of
any kind, it certainly could be nothing more th'an an executory one;
and then, from the uncertainty and ambiguity upon its face, arising
as well from the want of description of the lot, as from the reference
to the recent adjudication of the title in favour of Gravier, it would
be necessary to look b~yond the act of sale to extrinsic evidence,
for the purpose of removing such uncertainty and ambiguity. But
as we have already said, we are of opinion that there is nothing on
the face of the act of sale which amounts to any contract whatsoever, on the part of the Messrs. Brown, either executed or executory. Whatever claim, then, Keene may have, must rest for its
support upon some other evidence in the rbcord; and in this view,
we proceed to examine the correspondence between Keene and
James Brown, which took place in May, 1824.
On the 13th of May, of that year, Brown wrote to Keene, in
answer.to a note from Keene to Brown, which is not in the record,
making 'inquiries in regard to the lot in question, as follows: "Col.
Keene will find the contract between himself and Mr. Brown in the
office of Pedeselaux, at New Orleans. It was drawn up, I think,
by Lozano, who, I believe, yet resides there."
Without examining in detail several other letters from Keene to
Brown, we pass at once to the examination of Brown's letter of
May 15th, 1824, and of Keene's answer of the 17th of the same
month, which will show the understanding of both the parties in
relation to the subject. Brown in his letter writes as follows:
"Paris,May 15, 1824.
"Dear sir,-I am sorry I am unable to add any thing to the statement I sent you on the subject of the lot promised me by Mr. Livingston in New Orleans. The state of your memory will account for
the imperfection of mine, wiich I trust is not a matter of so much
importance, when I feel fully persuaded that the whole was reduced
to writing. When last in New Orleans, Col. Davis applied to me on
the same subject, and I told him that, as I had by a note to Mr. Livingston substituted you for myself as to any compensation for my
argument in that cause,'I had never said any thing as to my claim,
but had left Mr. Keene to arrange it with Mr. Livingston. You
knew the whole transaction just as well as I did, being in the habit
of daily intercourse with Mr. Livingston -,and myself. Col. Davis
told me he had bought the lot from you, but I did not ask 'him any
questions respecting it. The size, situation, and boundaries were
never described; and I would not have made any d;position of it,
had I not understood you as having conversed with'Mr. Livingston,
and as consenting to take it. I feel fully persuaded that on.arriving
at New Orleans you will find our contract reduced to writing. May
you not have passed the order I gave you to substitute you for my

SANUARY TERM, 1840;

139

[Preston vs. Keene.j

expectations, from Mr. Livingston to Col. Davis, and have forgotten
it ? Be assured of my dispositions that you should obtain all I pronised;, and the best evidence of that disposition is afforded by the
fact, that I have never claimed any thing from Mr. Livingstqn. I
passed merely all my interest without any ultimate responsibility
,under the promise he made me to you, and left you to arrange it
between you. I think the transaction must have taken place one or
two years before you left the country.
"I am, sir, very respectfully,
"Your most obed't ser't,
(Signed)
"JAMEs
BRowN.
"COL.

KEENE."

In answer to this lettdr, Keene, on the 17th of May, writes to
Mr. Brown as follows: "I crtainly have no hesitation in acknowledging that your responsibility about the batture lot does not extend
beyond your substituting me for yourself, in respect to the conveyance to be made by Mr. Livingston, in the sense explained by
you."
From the correspondence which is here sjated,-and there are
other parts of Keene's letters, corroborating that just stated from his
letter of the 17th of May,-we are satisfied that the contract between
him and Brown was, that Brown agreed to substitute Keene in his
place, and to all his right to the lot in question, and that Keene was
to receive from or through Mr. Livingston a conveyance therefor:
that it was not the agreement or understanding of the paities that
Brown was to lie under any responsibility whatever as to the title6:
that Keene had knowledge of the origin and nature of Brown's
interest, of the condition of the property, and the title to it: and that
he agreed to take that interest, such as it was, and to receive a conveyance, not from Brown, but from the executors of Delabigarre,
in whom the legal title was.
Thus understanding the agreement between the parties, we think
that Brown acquitted himself of all obligation which it imposed upon
him, when on the .22d of August, 1807, the very day after the act
of sale from Keene, Brown wrote to the executors of Delabigarre
the note in the record, requesting them to execute to Keene the
necessary deeds to convey to him the lot in question. It was competent to Keene to have called upon Delabigarre's executors for a
conveyance of the lot, and in the event of failure, or refusal, to enforce it by judicial proceedings. If he has, by neglecting to do so,
suffered loss; he must abide the consequences of his own negligence; and has no claim whatever, in law or equity, to throw the
loss on Brown or his representatives.
The views which we have thus presented being decisive of the
case, it is unnecessary to examine the other questions, which were
so fully discussed at the bar.
The decree is reversed, and cause remanded, with directions to
dismiss the petition.

140

SUPREME COURT.
[Preston vs. Keene.]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisidna, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this Court, that
the judgment and de~ree of the said Circuit Court be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause be, and the' same
is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
dismiss the petition.

