JANUARY TERM, 1840.

HENRY A. SUYDAM AND WILLIAmI BOYD, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
VS. ROBERT BROADNAX AND ISAAC NEWTON, ADMINISTRATORS
OF DAVID NEWTON, DECEASED, DEFENDANTS IN ERROr.
The plaintiffs, merchants of New York, instituted a suit in the Circuit Court of Alabama,
against the administrators of the drawer of a note, dated in New York, and payable in
New Yorlj. The act of the Assembly of Alabama provides, that the estate of a deceased
person, which is declared to be insolvent, shall be distributed by the executors or administrators, according to the provisions of the statute, among the creditors; and that no
suit or action shall be commenced or sustaiped against any executor or administrator
after the estate of the deceased has been represented as insolvent, except in certain cases
not of the description of.that on which this suit was instituted. Held, that the insolvency of the estate, judicially declared under the statute of Alabama, is not sufficient in
law to -abate a suit instituted in the Circuit Court of the United States, by a citizen of
another state, against the representatives of a citizen of Alabama.
The exceptions in the sixth section of the law of Alabama, in favour of debts contracted out
of the state, prevent the applice u Lof the statute, or its operation.-in a case of a debt
originating in and contracted by tne deceased out of the state of Alabama.
A sovereign state, and one of the states of this Union, if the latter were not restrained by
constitutional prohibitions, might, in virtue of sovereignty, act upon the contracts of its
citizens, wherever made; and discharge them, by denying the right of action upon them
in its own Courts: but the validity of such contracts as were made out of the sovereignty
or state, would exist and continue everywhere else, according to the lex loci contractus.
The constitutional and legal rights of a citizen of the United States, to sue in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, do not permit an act of insolvency, completely executed
under the authority of a state, to be a good bar against a recovery upon a contract made
in another state.
The eleventh section of the act to establish the Judicial Courts of the United States, carries
out the constitutional right of a citizen of one state to sue a citizen of another state in the
Circuit Cou - of the United States; and gives to the Circuit Courts" original cognisance
concurrent with the Courts of the several states, of all suits of a civil nature, at qommon
law and in equity." It was certainly intended to give to suitors, having a right to sue in
the Circuit Court, remedies, co-extensive.with that right. These remedies would not be
so, if any proceedings under an act of state legislation, to which the plaintiff was not a
party, exempting a person of such state from suit, could be pleaded to abate a suit in the
Circuit Court.

ON a certificate of division from the Circuit Court of the United
States, of the Southern District of Alabama.
An action was instituted in the Circuit Court of Alabama by
Henry A. Suydam and William Boyd, against the defendants, as
administrators of David Newton, on a promissory note given by him
to the plaintiffs.
On the trial of the cause the following questions arose, on which
the judges of the Circuit Court were divided, and the same were
certified to this Court.
1st. Is the plea that the estate of the said decedent is insolvent,
sufficient in law to abate the said action ?
2d. If the said plea be sufficient in law to abate said action, can
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district aforesaid, refer
said-cause for adjudication and final settlement to a board of corn-

SUPREME COURT.
[Suydam et aL vs. Broadnax et al.]

missioners, to be appointed by a County Court in one of the counties
in the state of Alabama, in pursuance of an act of the Legislature
of the said state ?
Mr. Curtis, for the plaintiffs, presented the following points
1. The law of Alabama is no defence to. the action, because it is
in conflict with a law of the United States.
2. The law of Alabama is void, because itis repugnant to the
clause in the tenth section of the eleventh article of the Constitution
of the United States, which inhibits any state from passing "any
law impairing the obligation of a contract.'
3.Even if the law of Alabama be admitted to be valid, it is no
defence to the ction.
On the first point, That the law of Alabama is no defence to the
action, because it is in conflict with a law of the UnitedStates, Mr.
Curtis said:The plaintiffs, residing in New York, sued. the defendants, residing in Alabama, as administrators of a deceased person. For
the defence, a law of that state is relied on, the clause of which,
applicable to the case, is as follows: "Nor shall any suit or action
be commenced or sustained, against him," [i. e. an executor or adiinistrator,] "after the estatd -of the testator or intestate is represented insolvent." Two -exceptions are made, which have nothing
to do with the present case. Aiki6i's Digest of the Laws of Alabama, second edition, 1836, 152. 664, 8vo.
The second section of the third article of the Constitution of the
United States extends their judicial power8 to controversies between
citizens of different states. The Judiciary Act of 24th Sdptember,
1789, section eleven, (2 Laws of the United States, 60, 61,) gives
the Circuit Courts of the United States, original cognisance, concurrent with the Courts of the several states, of certain classes .ofcases,
among which are cases in which "the suit is between a citizen of
the state where the suit is brought, and acitizen of another state ;"
and in which "the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs,
the sum or value of five hundred 'dollars."
It is admitted that the
present case has both these requisites for jurisdiction on the part of
the federal Court. The effect, then, of the defence, if successful,
would be to establish the doctrine, that it is competent for a state
legislature, under the Constitution of the United States, to pass a
law to oust a CQurt of the United States of a jurisdiction which that
Constitution had'conferred on it.
The mere statement of such a proposition is, one would think, its
conclusive refutation.
The effect claimed for the law of Alabama, would be to give a state
exclusive jurisdictiqn of cases in which, by the Constitution and laws
of the United States, and the judicial expositions of that' Constitution and those laws, the state has no jurisdiction at all. I" For," the
Court said, ",in cases of concurrent authority, where the laws of the
states or of the Union are ,indirect and manifest collision on the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

69

[Suydam, et a], vs. Broadnax et al.]

same subject, those of the Union being 'the supreme law of the
land,'. are of paramount authority; and the state-laws, so far, and
so far only, a such incompatibility exists, must necessarily yield."
PerThis
Story,
J., inoccurs,
Houston vs. Moore, 5 Wheat. 49, 50.
passage
it is true, in the opinion of a judge who dissented from the judgment of the. Court in the particular case ; bipt
the difference between the judges was, not as to the principle, (for
it appears never to have been, as Judge Story says, "seriously
doubted,") but as to its application to the case before them. In t*he
present case no such difference can exist. The law of the United
States says that the Circuit Court shall try it: the law of Alabama
says that the Circuit Court shall not try it. The conflict between
the two statutes is direct and palpable. It is for the Supreme Court
to say which is to prevail.
It may not be amiss, on this point of concurrent powers, to cite
the principle laid by Chancellor Kent; after analyzing the case of
Houston vs. Moore, and other cases, in which the subject had beer
judicially examined: "It would seem, therefore, that the concurrent power of legislation in the states, is not an independent, but a
subordinate and dependent power, liable in many cases to be extinguished, and in all cases to be postponed, to the paramount or
supreme law of the Union, wherever the federal and the state regulations interfere with each other." 1 Kent's Commentaries, 394.
388-393.

After referring to the doctrine of the Federalist, (No. 82,) that in
all cases of concurrent jurisdiction, an appeal would lie from the
state Courts to the Supreme Court of the United States; that without, such right of appeal, the concurrent jurisdiction of the state
Courts, in matters of national concern would be inadmissible, because, in that case, it would be inconsistent with the authority and
efficiency of the general government; and after 'analyzing several
cases, Chancellor Kent says, (1 Commentaries, 403,) that if the
state Courts "voluntarily entertain jurisdiction of cases cognisable
under the authority of the United States, they assume it upon the
condition, that the appellate jurisdiction of the federal Courts shall
apply." This proposition is irreconcilable with the assumption of
the Alabama law, that the federal Courts shall have no jurisdiction
at all in the present case.
The same learned judge lays it down as a principle, and sustains
it by abundant authority, that "no state can control the exercise of
any authority under the federal government."
(1 Kent's Commentaries, 409-412.') Yet this is exactly what the state of Alabama
seeks to do herd.
In Fisher vs. Blight, 2 Cranch, 397, the Supreme Court emphatically assert the supremacy of the laws of the United States, on
all subjects to which the legislative power of Congress extends."
In a case -inwhich the states of Virginia and Kentucky had made
a compact, by the terms of Which certain rights to land were to be
.'

70

SUPREME COURT.
[Suydam et al.
vs. Broadnax et al.]

finally decided according to the laws of Virginia, the Supreme.
Court said :
"The Constitution of the United States, to which the parties to
this compact had assented, gave jurisdictiop to the federal Courts in
controversies between citizens of different states. The same Constitution vested in this Court an appellate jurisdiction in 'all cases
where original jurisdiction was given to the inferior Courts; with
only such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress
shall make. Congress, in pursuance of the Constitution, has passed
a law on the subject, in which the appellate jurisdiction of this
Court is described in'general terms, so as to comprehend this case ;
nor is there in that law any exception or regulation which would
exclude the case of a caveat from its general provisions.. If,then,
the compact between Virginia and Kentucky was even susceptible
of the confstruction contended for, that construction could only be
maintained on the principle that the legislatures of any two states,
might, by agreement among themselves, annul the Constitution of
the United States. The jurisdiction of the Court being perfectly
clear, it remains to inquire which of the parties has the better right.'
Wilson vs. Mason, 1 Cranch, 91, 92. See' also, Sergeant's Constitutional Law, 44. 275, 276-278. 287--290, second edition, and the
cases there cited.
- The laws of the several states, as to rights, furnish rules of decision for the federal Courts under certain qualifications; but as to
remedies, they have no binding force in these Courts. Campbell,
Boaden and Company vs. Claudius, 1 Peters C. C. Rep. 484.
The statutes of limitation of the different states do not bind the
United States in suits in Courts of the United States; and cdnnot be
pleaded in bar in a suit by the United States against individuals.
United States vs. Hoar, 2 Masan, 311.
"It has been generally held, that the state Courts have a concurrent jurisdiction with the federal Courts, in cases to which the judicial power is extended, unless the jurisdiction of the federal be rendered exclusive by the words of the third article. If the words,
'to all cases;' give exclusive jurisdiction in cases affecting foreign
ministeis, they may also give exclusive jurisdiction, if such be the
will of Congress, in cases arising under the Constitution, laws, and
treaties of the United States." Cohens vs. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 397.
It has already been shown, that the conflict of the law of Alabama with the law of the United States, covering, this case, makes
the grant of jurisdiction in the latter to the federal Court a grant of
exclusive jurisdiction, quoad this case.
The Judiciary Act of the 24th September, 1789, in section thirtyfour, (2 Laws of the United States, 70,) declares that the laws of
the several states, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall
be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, irt[ie
Courts of the United States, in cases where they apply.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

71

[Suydam et aL vs. Broadnax et al.]

The cas; at bar is the very exception. It is a suit ior which a
statute of the United States has "otherwise" provided:'and far
"otherwise" 'than the law of Alabama has done; for the federal
law says expressly, that the suit may be brought, and the state law
says expressly, that the suit shall not be brought.
This thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, has no
application to the practice of the Courts, nor in any manner calls
upon them to pursue the various changes which may take place from
time to time in the state Courts, with respect to their processes, and
modes of proceeding under them. United States Bank vs. Halstead,
10 Wheat. 54.

So far as the act of Congress of the '8th May, 1792, (2 Laws of
the United States, 299, 300,) called the- Process Act," perpetuating
the former act of 29th September, 1789, (2 Laws of the United
States, 72,) adopts the state laws as regulating the modes -of proceeding in suits at common law, the adoption is expressly confined
to those in force in September 1789. The act of Congress does
not recognise the authority of any laws of this.description which
might be afterwards passed by the states. Wayman vs. Southard,
10 Wheat..41.

If a state law cannot affect the coirse of causes in the federal
Courts, after' they have passed to judgment, how can it prevent
them; when regularly prosecuted under a law of the United States,
from passing the judgment?
On the second point it was argued, that the law of Alabama is
void, because it is repugnant to the clause in the tenth section of the
first article of the Constitution of the United States, which inhibits
a state from passing "any law impairing the obligation of contracts."
This law manifestly impairs the obligation of a contract, because
it destroys the. creditor's remedy, in toto. It disables him from
bringing a suit at all, and makes him an outlaw. See as to this
point, Sturgis -vs. Crowninshield, 4'Wheat. 122.

M'Millan vs.

M'Neill, 4 Wheat. 209. Ogden vs. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213.
1 Kent's Com; 4,19.
On the third point, Mr. Curtis contended that, even if-the law of
Alabama be admitted, for the sake of argument, to be valid, it is no
defence to the action.
The words of the law are, "Nor shall any suit or action be commenced or sustained against him, after the estate of the testator or
intestate is represented insolvent."
Whether the words "commenced" and "sustained'? are, as here
used, synonymous or not, is a question on which philologists may
differ. Dr. Johnson gives seven definitions of the word "sustain ;"
the first of which is, "to bear; to prop; to holdup:" the second,
"to support; to keep from sinking under evil:" the third, "to maintain ; to keep :" and the fourth, "to help ;. to relieve; to assist."
Mr. Richardson, on the contrary, says that "Isustin~re," from which'
he derives it, means, not to hold up, but to bold or keep under, as
well as to support ; and defines "sustain" as meaning "to bear or

SUPREME COURT.
[Suydam et al. v. Broadnax et al.]

carry; to bear, to suffer, to-endure." These are his only senses of
the word; and they coincide with the remaining three given to it by
Dr. Johnson. None of Richardson's definitions of the word A'sustain," can, it is clear, help out the defence, so far as it rests on that
word in the law. It is a word generally used loosely in statutory
and judicial language; and it has even been "represented" that the
legislature of Alabama is more remarkable than other legislatures
for critical elegance or precision. The probability is, that the word
"sustained" was thrown into the law in question as a mere pleonasm. If so, the law prohibits such suits only against an executor
or administrator as are commenced after the estate of the testator
or intestate is represented insolvent. Now, in the case at bar, the
representation of insolvency was after the suit, instead of the suit
being after the representation. The suit, therefore, was a proper
one, even under the law of Alabama.
But, let it be conceded that the word "sustained" has a substantive meaning in the law, and bars actions properly "commenced,"
on a representation of insolvency made "pendente lite ;'I still the
law would be inoperative to oust a jurisdiction which had once
vested. "Where," says Chief Justice Marshall, "jurisdiction of the
federal Court has once attached, no subsequent change in the relation or condition of the parties in the progress of the cause will oust
the jurisdiction. The strongest considerations of utility and convenience require, that the jurisdiction once vested, the action of the
Court should not be limited ; but that it should proceed to make a
final disposition of the subject." U. States vs. Myers et al. 2 Briock.
C. C. Rep: 616.
This principle has been repeatedly announced by the Supreme
Court of the United States. See Morgan's heirs vs. Morgan, 2 Wheat.
290. 297. Mollan vs. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537. Dunn vs. Clarke,
8 Peters, 1. Clarke vs. Mathewson et al. 12 Peters, 164.
Mr. Justice WAYxE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case has been sent to this Court upon a certificate of division
of opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court of the Southern
District of Alabama.
Suydam and Boyd, partners in trade, citizens of the state of New
York, sue the defendants as administrators of David Newton, upon
a promissory note given by the intestate to the plaintiff, dated New
York, September 1st, 1835, payable in twelve months.
The defendants, as we are left to gather from a most imperfect
record-for the pleadings, except the declaration, are not givenplead in abat -cut of the suit, that the estate represented by them
has been declared, under proceedings of a statute of Alabama, to be
insolvent; and in such case, that they are not liable to be sued.
The judges of the Circuit Court were opposed in opinion Upon
the question, "Is the plea that the estate of the said deceased is insblvent, sufficient in law to abate, the said action ?"
.The statute of Alabama will be found in Aikin's Digest of the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

73

[Suydam et l.vs. Broadnx et aI.]

Laws of Alabama, 151. The second section of it declares, that the
estates of persons altogether insolvent shall be distributed among
the creditors in proportion to the sums respectively due, after the
payment of debts due for the last sickness and necessary funeral
expenses. For the purpose of ascertaining such insolvency, the
executor is permitted to exhibit to the Orphans Court an account
and statement of the effects of the estate, including in it also the
lands, tenements, and hereditaments of the testator or intestate: and
if it shall appear to the Orphans Court that such estate is insolvent,
then, after ordering the lands, tenements, and hereditaments of the
testator or intestate to be sold, the Court shall appoint two or more
commissioners, with power to receive and examine the claims of
creditors of the estate; and the commissioners are directed to give
notice of the times and places of their meeting, by notifications posted
up in such public places, and in such newspapers, as the Orphans
Court, or Chief Justice thereof may direct. Six months, and not more
than eighteen months, shall be allowed by the Court to creditors to
bring in and prove 'their claims before the commissioners. The
commissioners, at the end of the time limited, are to make a report,
on oath, to the Orphans Court, of all the claims which have been
laid before them, with the sums allowed by them on each respective
claim. The Court then shall order the residue of the estate, personal
and real-the real estate being sold according to law-to be paid
and distributed among the creditors whose claims have been allowed
bythe commissioners, in proportion to the sums respectively due.
Provision is then made, either at the instance of a creditor, or executor, or administrator, either being dissatisfied with the report on x
particular claim, under an order of the Orphans Court, to refer tlai
claim-to a Court of Referees, whose report upon it, when returned
to the Orphans Court, and approved, is declared to be final and
conclusive. And it is further declared, that no suit or action shall
be commenced or sustained against any executor or administrator,
after the estate is represented insolvent, except in certain cases not
necessary to be now noticed. But the statute further provides for
the liability of the executor or administrator to the creditors for their
respective shares in,the distribution; and then declares that the
claims of creditors which have not been put before the commissioners within the time limited, or which have not been allowed in the
other modes directed by the statute, shall be forever barred; unless
such creditor shall find other estate of the deceased, not inventoried
'or accounted for by the executor or administrator, before distribution.
Is then the insolvency of the estate, judicially declared under the
statute, sufficient in law to abate the suit of the plaintiff?
We think such an insolvency cannot abate the action upon which
this division of opinion has been certified to this Court. The statute
itself contains a provision which meets-the question. The sixth
section declares that "all claims against the estates of deceased persons shall be presented to the executor or administrator within eighVOL. XIV.-G

10

74

SUPREME COURT.
[Suydam et al.vs. Broadnax et al.]

teen months after the same shall have accrued," "dr within eighteen
months after letters have been granted, and not after: and all claims
not presented within that timeshall beforever barred from recovery:"
but excepts, among other exceptionsy debts.contracted out of Alabama., Now, if an estate may be. declared insolvent under the
statute, in less than the longest time allowed, to creditors to present
their claims; and creditors, for debts contracted out of the state, are
not limited to that time to present their claims; it follows, as a ne,essary consequence, that an estate having been declared to be insolvent within the shorter time, cannot exclude such creditor from
maintaining a suit against the executor or administrator. And in
cases of insolvency, declared after eighteen months, creditors of debts
contracted out of the state cannot be included in .the exclusion from
the right to sue ; for no time is limited foi" such claims to be presented: and ih an action to enforce them, a recovery can only be
prevented by such defences as would prevail in any other suit.
We think this a. conclusive interpretation of the sixth section;
and on this ground, that the plea of the estate being insolvent is not
sufficient to abate this action.
But if the sixth section was not in the statute, our opinion 'would
be the same, from the rule which must be applied to interpret such
a statute. Statutes are mandatory, except of the established rules
for the interpretation of therd.
This is a statute which, by the exemption it gives to executors
and administrators from suit, would seem to imply a denial to creditors of the intestate the right to sue, without respect to the foreign
Qeountry or state, in our own Union, where the debt was contracted.
It is a general statute, without a direct application to contracts made
out of 'Alabama ; and its construction cannot be extended to such
contracts. Ratio',est, quia statutum intelligit semper disponere de
contractibus factis intra et non extra territorium suum. Casaragis
Disc. 136, sec. 14-16* 20. 22.

A sovereign state, and, one of the

states of the Union, if the latter were not restrained by constitutional
nrohibitions, might, in virtue of sovereignty, act upon the contracts
)f its citizens, wherever made, and discharge them, by denying a right
of action upon them in its Courts. But the validity of such contracts
as were made out of the .sovereignty or state, would exist and continue everywhere else, adeording to the lex loci contractus. This
show's the reason for and force of the rule just given.; and it may be
laid down as a safe position, that a statute discharging contracts or
denying suits upon them, without the particular mention of foreign
.contracts, does not include them.
We do not mean, however, to decide this question solely by the
interpretation which has been given to the statute.
It may be put upon other grounds, inaking our conclusion equahy
certain. They are such as aTe connected with the constitutional
and legal rights of the plaintiffs to sue in the Circuit Courts of the
United States ; and upon the law which under our system does not
permit an act of insolvency, completely executed under the autho-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

75

[Suydam et al. vs. Broadnax et al.]'

rity of one state, to be a good bar against the recovery upon a,'contract made in another state.
The eleventh section of the act to establish-the Judicial Courts of
the United States, carries out the constitutional right of a citizen of
one state to sue a citizen of another state in the Circuit Court of the
United States; and gives to the Circuit Court "original cognisance,
concurrent with the Courts of the several states, of all suits of'a civil
nature, at common law, and in. equity," &c. &c. It was certainly
intended to give to suitors having a right to sue in the Circuit Court,
remedies co-extensive with these rights. These remedies would not
be so, if any'proceedings under an act of a state legislature, to which
a plaintiff was not a party, exempting a person of such state from
suit, could be pleaded to abate a suit in the Circuit Court. The
division of opinion too, as it is presented in the record, is brought
within the decisions of this Court, in Sturges vs. Crowninshield,
4 Wheat. 122, and Ogden vs. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213.

It must

be remarked, however, that the statute of Alabama is one for the
distribution of insolvent estates, not liable to the objections of a general law; and is only brought under the cases mentioned, by an
attempt to extend its provisions to a citizen of another state.
In Sturges vs. Crowninshield, it is said, "Every bankrupt or insolvent system in the world must partake of the character of a judicial investigation. Parties whose rights are affected, are entitled to
a hearing. Hence, any bankrupt or, insolvent system professes to
summon the creditors before some tribunal, to show cause against
granting a discharge to the bankrupt. But on what principle can-a
citizen of another state be forced into the Courts of a state for this
investigation,? The judgment to-be passed, is to prostrate his rights ;
and on the subject of those rights, the Constitution exempts him
from the jurisdiction of the state tribunals, without regard to the
place where the contract may originate." In Ogden vs. Saunders:
"A bankrupt or insolvent law of any state, which discharges both
the person of the debtor and his future acquisitions of propert , is
not a law impairing the obligation of contracts, so far as respecs
debts contracted subsequently to the passage of the law. But a certificate of discharge cannot be pleaded in bar of an action brought by
a citizen of another state, in the Courts of the United States. or of
any other state than that where the discharge was obtained."
I
Though this is a statute intended to act upon the distribution of
insolvent estates, and not a statute of bankruptcy; whatever exemption it may give from suit to an executor or administrator of an insolvent estate against the citizens of Alabama, a citizen of another
state, being a creditor of the testator or intestate, cannot be acted
upon by any proceedings under the statute, unless he shall have
voluntarily made himself a party in them, so as to impair his constitutional and legal right to sue an executor or administrator in the
Circuit Court of the United States.
Let it then be certified to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Alabama, as the opinion of this Court,

'76

SUPREME COURT.
[Suydaw. et al. vs. Broadnax et al.]

that the plea that the estate of the decedent is insolvent, is not sufficent in 14w to abate the plaintiffs' action.
This cause came on to be heard on thetranscript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Alabama, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were
certified to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, that ".the
plea that the estate of the said decedent is insolvent, is not sufficient
in law to bate the plaintiffs' action." Whereupon, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this' Court, that, it be socertified to the said
Circuit Court accordingly.

