JANUARY TERM, 1840.

LEssEE OF WILLIAM POLLARD'S HEIRS, &C., PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
Vs. GAIUS KIBBE, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.*
Action of ejectment in the state Court of Alabama, for a lot of ground in the city of Mobile.
The plaintiff'claimed the title to the lot under an act of Congress, and the decision of the
state Court was against the right and title so set up and claimed. A writ of errorwas
prosecuted to the Supreme Court of Alabama. It was held that this case was embraced
by the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which gives thfs Court jurisdiction to revise the judgment of the state Court, ir iuch cass.
The act of Congress under which title was claimea, being a private act, and for the benefit
of the city of Mobile, and certain individuals; it is fair to presume it was passed with
reference to the particular claims of individuals, and the situation of the land embraced
in the law at the time it was passed.
A lot of ground was granted by the Spanish government of Florida, in 1802, to Forbes and
Company, in the city of Mobile, which was afterwards confirmed by the commissioners
of the United States. The lot granted was eighty feet in front, and three hundred and
four feet in depth, bounded on the east by Water street. This, while the Spanish government had possession of the territory, was known as "a water lot." In front of the lot Wasa
lot which, at the time of the grant of the lot to Forbes and Company, was covered by the
water of the bay and river of Mobile, the high tide flowing over it; and it was separated from
Forbes and Company's lot by Water street. It was afterwards, in part, reclaimned by Lewis,
who had no title to it, and who wa's afterwards driven off by one of the firm of Forbes
and Company. A blacksmith's shop was then put on the lot by hin; and Lewis, again,
by proceedings at law, obtained 'possession of the blacksmith's shop, it not being his
improvement. The improvemeift'was first made in 1823. The Spanish governor,.in
1809, after the Louisiana treaty of 1803, and before the territory west of the Perdido was
out of the possession of Spain, granted the lot in, front of the lot owned by Forbes and
Company, to William Pollard! bui the commissioners of the United States, /appointed
after the territory was in the full possession of the United States, refused to confirm the
same, " because of the want of improvement and occupation." In 1824, Congress passed
an act, the second section of-which gives to those who have improved them, the lots in
Mobile, known under the Spnish government as ,,water lots," except when the loeso,
improve(' 'ad been alienated, and except lots of which the Spanish government hiad made
"new graots," or orders of survey, during the time the Spanish government had " power" to
grant the same; in which case, the lot is to belong to the alienee' or the grantee. In
1836, Congress passed an act for the relief of William Pollard's heirs, by Which the lot
granted by the Spanish government of 1809, was given to the heirs, savifig the rights of
third persons ; dnd a patent for ttis lot was issued to the heirs of William Pollard, by
the United States, on the 2d of July, 1836. Held, that the lot lying east of the 16t
granted in 1802, by the Spanish government, to Forbes and Company, did not pass by
that grant to Forbes and Company ; that the act of Congress of 1824, did not vest the
title in the lot east of the lot granted in 1802 in Forbes and Company ; and that the
heirs of Pollard, under the sMcond section of the act of 1824, which excepted from
the grant to the city of Mobile, &c., lots held under "riew grants" from thq Spanish government, and under the act of Congress of 1836, were entitled to the lot granted in
1809, by the Spanish governor to William Pollard.
The term "new grants," in 'its ordinary acceptation, when applied to the same spibject or
object, is the-opposite of" old." But such cannot be its meaning in the.aot of Congress
of 1824. The term was doubtless used in relation to the existing condition of the teritory in which such grants were made. The territory had been ceded to the United
States by the Louisiana treaty ; but, in consequence of a dispute with Spain about the
boundary line, had remained in'the possession of-Spain. During this time, Spain continued to issue evidences of tites "to lands within the territory in dispute. The term
Mr. Chief Justice TASqEr was prevented sitting in this case by indisposition.
2 G2
45

354

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee, of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

"new" was very appropriately used as applicable to grants and orders of survey of this
description ; as contradistinguished from those issued before the cession.
The time when the Spanish government had the " power" to grant lands in the territory, by'
every reasonable intendment.of the act of Congress of 1824, must have been so designated with reference to the existing state of the territory, as between the United States
and Spain ; tile
right ta the territory being in the United States, and the possession in
Spain. The language, "during the time at which Spain had the power to grant the
same," was, under such circumstances, very appropriately applied to the case. It could
with no propriety have, been applied to the case, if Spain had. full dominion over the
territory, by the union of the right and the possession ; and, in this view, it is no forced
interpretation of the word "power," to consider it here used as importing an imperfect.
right, and distinguished from complete lawful authority.
The act of Congress of 25th March, 1812, appointing commissioners to ascertain the titles
and claims to lands on the east
side of the Mississippi, and west side of the Perdido, and
falling within the cession of France, embraced all claims of this description. It extended
to all claims, by virtue of any grant, order of survey, or other evidence of claim, whatsoever, derived from the French, British, or Spanish governments ; and the reports of the
commissioners show, that evidence of claims of various descriptions, issued by Spanish
authority, down to 1,810, come under their examination. And the legislation of Congress shows many laws passed confirming incomplete titles, originating after the date of

the treaty between France and Spain, at St. Ildefonso. Such claims are certainly not
beyond the reach of Congress to confirm; although it may require a special act of
-Congress for that purpose. Such is the act of Congress of 2d July, 1836, which confirms the title of William Pollard's heirs to the lot which is tie subject of this suit.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States, in a case brought by writ of
error to a Court of a state, must be confined to the error alleged in the decision of the
state Court, upon the construction of the act of Congress, before the State Court.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama.
In the Circuit Court for the county of Mobile, state of Alabama,
an action of ejectment for a lot of ground situated in the city of
Mobile, was instituted by the plaintiffs in error, and was afterwards
removed, by change of venue, to the Circuit Court for the county
of Baldwin. It was tried before a jury in that Court, and on the
trial, the plaintiffs filed a bill of exceptions to the charge of the
Court. A verdict and judgment were given for the defendant.
From this judgment of the Circuit Court, the plaintiffs prosecuted a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama ;.and the
judgment of the Circuit Court, in favour of the defendant, was
affirmed by the Supreme Court.
The plaintiffs j)rosecuted this writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the United States, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789.
"The following is the bill of exceptions filed by the plaintiffs, on
the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court of the county of Baldwin.
On the trial of this cause at the above term, the plaintiffs, to maintain the issue on their part, gave in evidence an instrument signed
by Cayetano Perez, written intthe Spanish language, a translation
of which is hereto annexed, as part of this bill of exceptions, but
which instrument was shown to have been reported against, and
rejected, by the commissioners appointed by tho United States government to investigate and report on such matters, because of the
want of improvement and occupancy."

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

355

[Leasee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]
[THE SPANISH

GRANT, TRANSLATED.

"Mr. Commandant:
"William Pollard, an inhabitant of the district, before you, with
all respect represents: That he has a mill established upon his plantation, and that he often comes to this place with planks and property
from it,
and that he wishes to have a place propitious or suitable
for the landing and safety thereof; and that having found a vacant
piece at the 'iver side, between the channel which is called "John
Forbes and Company's," and the wharf at this place, he petitions
you to grant said lot on the river bank, to give more facility to his
trading;_ a favour he hopes to obtain of you.
"Mobile, 1 ith December, 1809.
WILLIAM POLLARD."
Mobile, 12th December, 1809.

I grant the petitioner the lot or piece of ground he prays for, on
the river bank, provided it be vacant.
CAYETANO PEREZ.]
They further, gave in evidence, an act of Congress, passed on the
26th day of May, 1824, entitled an act granting certain lots of
ground to the corporation of the city of Mobile, and to certain individuals of said city. They further gave in evidence an act of
Congress, passed July 2d, 1836, entitled an act for the relief of William Pollard's heirs. They then gave in evidence -a patent, dated
the 14th day of March, 1837, issued in pursuance of said act of
Congress of the 2d of July, 1836, which patent embraced the premises in question. The plaintiffs further proved that in the year
1813 or

1814,

some wreck and drift wood was renoved from the

place where the premises in question now are, by the hands of William Pollard, the grantee. The defendant gave in evidence a Spa-

nish grant, dated 9th of June, 1802, to John Forbes and Company,
for a lot of ground, for eighty fee front on Royal street, with a
depth of three hundred and four feet to the east, and bounded on
the south by Government street; which grant was 'recognised as a
perfect title, and so confirmed by act of Congress. Attached to the
original gmapt was a certificate signed by W. Barton, Register, Wm.
Barnett, Receiver, P. M.; Attest, John Elliott, Clerk; a copy of
which is the following:
[PROCYEDINGS O

THE COMMISSIONER"

'Land Office, Jackson Court House.
Commissioners Report, No. 2; Certificate, No. 3.
In pursuance :f the act of Congress, passed on the 3d of March,
1819, entitled "an act for adjusting the claims to land, and establishing land offices in the district east of the island of Orleans," we
certify that the claim No. 3, in the report of the commissioners, numbered 2, (claimed by John Forbes and Company, original claimant,
Panton Leslie and Company,) is recognised by the said act as valid
against any claim on the part of the United States, or right derived

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

from the'United States; the said claim being for eighty feet in front,
and three hundred and four in depth, area 24,320 feet, situate in the
town of Mobile, and claimed by virtue of Spanish grant executed
by J. V. Morales, and dated 9th of June, 1802.
Given under our hands this 8th day of January, 1S20.
W. BARTON, Register.
Wm. BARINETT, Receiver. P. M.
Attest, JOHN ELLIOTT, Clerk.]
A map, or diagram, indicating the property claimed, as well as
that covered by the above grant, with other lots, streets, &c., was
submitted to the jury, and is to make a part of the bill of excentions, by agreemdnt between the counsel of the parties.
According to that map and the proof, the lot sued for is east of
Water street, and also immediately in front of the lot conveyed by
the above mentioned grant to John Forbes and Company, and only
separated from it by Water street. The proof showed that, previous to 1819, then, and until filled up, as after stated, the lot claimed
by plaintiffs, was at ordinary high tide, covered with water, and
mainly so at all stages of the water; that the ordinary high water
flowed from the east to about, the middle of what is now Water
street, as indicated on the map referred to, between the lot claimed
by plaintiffs, and that covered by the grant to John Forbes and Company. It was proved that John Forbes and Company had been in
possession of the lot indicated by their deed since the year 1802;
and that said lot was known under the Spanish government as a
water lot; no lots at that time existing between it and the water.
It was proved that, in the year 1823, no one being then in possession, and the same being under water, Curtis Lewis, without any
title, or claim under title, took possession of, and filled up east of
Water street, and from it eighty feet east, and thirty-six or forty feet
wide, filling up north of Government street, and at the corner of
the same, and Water street; that Lewis remained in possession
about nine months, when he was ousted in the night by James Innerarity, one of the firm of John Forbes and Company ;, who caused
to be erected a smith shop, and from whom Lewis, sometime after
regained possession by legal process, and retained it till he conveyed
the same. Proved, that when said Lewis took possession, Water
street at that place could be passed by carts, and was common.
The defendant connected himself, through conveyances for the premises in controversy, with the said grant to John Forbes and Company, also, with the said Curtis Lewis, also, with, the mayor and
aldermen of the city of Mobile: from each of which sources his
title, if any,'was derived by deed.
It was admitted by the parties to the suit, that the premises sued
for were between Church street and North Boundary street; this
was all the evidence introduced on the trial,
On this evidence, the Court charged the jury, that if the lot conveyed as above, to John Forbes and Company, by the deed afore-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

357

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

said, -was known as a water lot under the Spanish government, and
if the lot claimed by the plaintiffs had been improved at, and previous to the 26th day of May, 1824, and was east of Water street,
and immediately in front of the lot so conveyed to John Forbes and
Company, then the lot claimed, passed by the act of Congress of
the.26th of May, 1824, to those at-that time owning and occupying
the lot so as above conveyed to John Forbes and Company.
"The Court further charged the jury, it was immaterial who made
the improvements on the lot on the east side of Water street, being
the one in dispute; that by the said acts of Congress, the proprietor
of the lot on the west side of Water street, known as above, was
entitled to the lot on the eastW side of it. To which charges of the
Court, the plaintiffs, by their counsel, excepted, and this was signed
and sealed as a bill of exceptions."
The case was argued by Mr. Test, and Mr. Webster, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr. Key, for the appellee.
For the plaintiff in error it was contended, that the charge in the
Circuit Court of Baldwin county, was erroneous; and the judgment
of the Superior Court of Alabama should be reversed:
1. Because plaintiff had a good title under his original grant, the
confirmation thereof by the act of Congress of the 2d July, 1836,
and the patent issued in pursuance thereof.
v, The construction put by the judge who tried the cause, on the
act of May 26th, 1824, was not the true construction of that,act.
3. The said charge to the jury was not warranted by the evidence set forth in the said bill of exceptions.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error stated, that the question in
the case was, whether the grant to Forbes and Company, dated 9th
June, 1802, which had been confirmed by the commissioners of the
United States on'the 8th of January, 1820, conveyed the lot in front
of the lot of Forbes and Company, which is now claimed by Pollard's heirs.
11. The plaintiffs had a good and valid title to this lot. They rely
on the provisions of the act of Congress of 1826. They do not claim
as riparian proprietors.
Pollard was in possession of the property, as is shown by the act
of Congress of 1826; and the patent to him was granted under that
law. The patent is the highest evidence of title, and the Court will.
not look beyond or behind it.
• If the original grant by Governor Cayetano . crez was of no value,
yet the act of 1836 gave it life, and made it a legal, valid, and indis. putable title, against any equitable title ; and the defendants fiave
nothing but an equitable title. Cited, the act of Congress of the session of 1836, 1837.

The defendants claim under an act of Congress granting certain
lots to the city of Mobile. 3 Story's Laws U. S. 2071. A proper
construction of this law negatives this claim. The law gives a title

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

to what is now called "a water lot;" not to what were called "water
lots" by the Spartish law.
Under the Spanish laws, grants were extended into the river; and
no water lots were granted unless particularly described to be such,
and' so granted. The defendants exhibited no grant, specially de
scribing the lot to be a water lot.
The grant of the'lot, by the act of'1836, recognises the lot for
which the plaintiffs in error contend, as a lot under a "new grant'
of the Spanish.government; and the lot is given to the heirs of Pollard, the lessors of the plaintiffs in error.

The defendants claim

under the act of Congress of 1824; and the act of 1836 is a legislative construction of that act.
The jurisdiction of the Court in this case:depends upon the question, whether an act of Congress has been misconstrued by the Supreme Court of Alabama. Has this been so ?
It has been said that the original grant by the governor of Florida
has been treated with scorn, and is of no value. That grants of this
description having been for lands within the territory claimed by the
United States, under the cession treaty of Louisiana, have always
been disregarded. This is not so. Congress have in more than a
thousand instances respected and confirmed such titles.
In regard lo the contest between-the United States and Spain,
under the Louisiana treaty, relative to the lands lying west of the
river Perdido, possession of those lands was not obtained until 1823.
The condition of a country between the time it has been ceded, and
the time when it is taken possession of,is determined by the law
of nations.- The rule of that law is, that nothing is changed until
possession is taken of the country.
It is not admitted that Congress could, before the United States
took possession of the country, pass laws abrogating the established
laws of Spain. Governments are of all others the parties on which
the laws of the country which may have acquired the country by
treaty, do not operate before they are in possession.
It has often been decided in this Court, that the government
which is in possession of a country may make grants. In the case
of The State of Rhode Island vs. The State of Connecticut, 12 Peters,.
748, the Court say, "When a territory is acquired by cession, or
even conquest, the rights of the inhabitants to property are respected
and sacred. Grants of land by a government de facto, of parts of
a disputed territory in its possession, are valid against the state
which had the right. 8 Wheat. 509. 12 Wheat. 535. 6 Peters,
712. 8 Peters, 445. 9 Peters, 139. 10 Peters, 330. 718.

The act of Congress of 1804, speaks of and relates entirely to
past cases. See act of 26th March, 1804, Sec. 14. It declares the
titles referred'to in it to have been, and to be, null and void. Land
Laws, 500.
There is no objection to the title of the plaintiffs in error, on the
ground that it was not confirmed by the commissioners of the United

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

359

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

States. Their decision does not disaffirm the title. After the refusal
of the commissioners to allow it, an action may be brought upon it.
Was the grant refused by the commissioners because of the provisions of the treaty for the cession of Louisiana? The commissioners say it was refused "because of the want of proof of cultivation and occupation." Grants made after the treaty have been
confirmed in many cases: among them a gratit to Forbes and Company.
There was a title in the heirs of Pollard under the grant, but the
Supreme Court of Alabama decided upon the act of Congress of
1824. The grants made after the treaty have been so often conirmed, that the circumstance %showswhat was meant in the act of
Congress under which the plaintiff in error claims, by "new grants."
"New grants" referred to the period of the treaty. The treaty was
an epoch from which grants were characterized as new grants.
The grant to- Forbes and Company, under which the claim of the
plaintiffs in error is opposed, is for three hundred and four feet. It
is nowhere said to go to the river. Thus, if a .riparian right is
claimed, at the common law, it is negatived by the description of the
lot. The grantees are limited to the feet and inches stated in the
grant, and have no claim to say the grant extends to high water
mark.
The act of Congress of 1824, shows that the grants by the Spanish
government did not give riparian rights. If the grantees had such
rights, why apply to Congress to allow them? The plaintiffs in
error had an equitable title before 1824, which should have been
protected. The subsequent act gave tlem a legal title.
The Courts of Alabama have misconstrued the acts of Congress.
A construction has been given to the act of 1824, which rides
over the title of the lessors of the plaintiffs in error; and this Court
only can correct the judgment of the state Court. By the act of
1824, all the lots which belonged to no one, were given to the city
of Mobile; but the first section of the act takes no title, equitable
or legal, from ahy one.
The construction of the second section of the act of 1824, which
is claimed for the defendant, is such as will take away the property
of another person. That construction is: If you find an improved
lot, give it to the person who has an improved lot above it: thus
giving the lot to one who had no agency in the improvement. This
is against the grammatical construction of the law, and against the
just intentions of the national legislature. This will not lie sustained
by the Court, unless they will allow one person to take the property
of another without compensation, and that the fair grammatical
construction of the law shall be disregarded. The object of the law
of 1824 was to give lots not granted by the Spanish government,
after the Louisiana treaty; styling such concessions "new grants"
to the persons mentioned in the acts. "New grants" were excepted,
and were left to the legislation of Congress.

360

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

Mr. Key, for the defendants.
The case presents but few points for the consideration of the
Court. It is admitted on the part of the plaintiffs in error, that in
1824 the legal title to the lot in controversy was in the United States.
If this was so, by the act of Congress of 1824 it became vested in
the defendants. Before 18P4, the, defendants had an equitable title,
which was made a perfect legal title by that act.
By the decisions of this Court, in Foster and Elam vs. Neilson,
2 Peters, 253; and Garcia vs. Lee, 12 Peters, 511, Spanish grants,
made for any part of the territory west of the Perdido, after the
treaty of 180.3 with France, by which Louisiana was ceded to the
United States, are declared void. No equitable title under the
Spanish grant, made after 1803, could exist against the United
States.
. The whole question between the parties in this case
depends on
the act of Congress of 1824. It is to be admitted, that if this act is
applicable to the title of the plaintiffs, the title is complete. If the
title they claim is within the exception in that act, why ask or take
a title under the act of 1836 ?
The title of the defendants is under a Spanish grant of 1802,
which has been confirmed by the United States. The grant was
for ground to which the lot claimed by the plaintiffs in error was an
accretion. After the treaty of 1803, the riparian rights by the common law, gave the right to this lot to Forbes and Company. Whatever was the Spanish law before the treaty, afterwards, the common
law prevailed.
A just construction of this act of Congress of 1824, gives the lot
to the defendants; and the judgment of the Supreme Courv of Alabama should be sustained by this Court.
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The writ of error in this case brings up the record of the final
judgment of the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama. This
case is brought here under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789 ; that Court being the highest Court of law in that state in
which a decision could be had. It was an action of ejectment,
brought to recover possession of a lot'of land in the city of Mobile.
Upon the trial of the cause, the plaintiff claimed title to the premises
in question under an act of Congress, and the decision in the state
Court was against the right and title so set up and claimed. It is,
therefore, one of the cases embraced in this section of the Judiciary
Act, which gives to this Court jurisdiction to revise the judgment
of the state Court.
The act under which title was claimed, was passed on the 26th
of May, 1824, (Land Laws, 885,) granting certain lots of ground to
the corporation of the city of Mobile, and to certain individuals of
that city. Although the judgment of this Court must- be confined
to the error alleged in the decision of the state Court, upon the con-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

861

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

struction of the act of Congress under which title was claimed, it
becomes necessary, to the right understanding of the act which was
drawn in question, to look at the state of facts appearing on the
record. It being a private act, for the benefit of the city of Mobile
and certain individuals, it is fair to presume it was passed with
reference to the particular claims of such individuals, and the situation of the land embraced within the law at the time it was passed.
These facts, as they appear on the record, are briefly as follow.
On the trial, the plaintiff gave in evidence an instrument signed by
Cayetano Perez, dated at Mobile, the 12th day of December, in the
year 1809, purporting to be a petition of William Pollard, for a certain lot of ground, which is described as vacant, at the river side,
between the canal, which is called John Forbes and Company's, and
the wharf of this place, corresponding in description with the location of the lot in question; and a grant accompanying the petition,
in these words: "I grant the petitioner the lot or piece of ground
he prays for, on the river bank, provided it be vacant:" which
grant was rejected by the commissioners appointed by the government of the United States, to investigate -and report upon such
claims, because of the want of improvement and occupation of the
lot. The defendant gave in evidence a Spanish grant, dated the 9th
of June, in the year 1802, to John Forbes and Company, for a lot
of ground eighty feet front on Royal street, with a depth of three
hundred and four feet to the east, and bounded on the south by
Government street; which grant was recognised by the commissioners as a perfect title, and so confirmed by Congress. A map or
diagram is referred to in the record, by which it appears that the lot
sued for is east of Water street, and immediately in front of the lot
conveyed by the above mentioned grant to John Forbes and Company, and only separated from it by Water street. It appeared in
evidence, that previous to the year 1819, and until filled up by Curtis
Lewis,.the lot in question was, at ordinary high tide, covered with
water, and mainly so at all stages of the tide. That the ordinary
high water flowed from the east, to about the middle of what is now
Water street. It was proved that John Forbes and Company had
been in possession of the lot granted to them since the year 1802;
and that said lot was known under the Spanish government, as a
water lot; no lots at that time existing between it and the water.
In the year 1823, no one being in possession of the lot in question. tnd the same being under water, Curtis Lewis, without title,
or claim under title, took possession of and filled up east of Water
street, about thirty-six or forty feet wide, and eighty feet deep from
Water street; the filling up being north of Government street, at the
cornet of that and Water street. Lewis remained in possession
about nine months, when he was ousted in the night time by James
Innerarity, one of,the firm of John Forbes and Company; who
caused to be erected thereon a smith's shop. Lewis, some time
after, regained the possession by legal process, and retained it until
he conveyed away the same. When Lewis took possession, Water
46
VOL. XIV.-2 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

street, at that place, could be passed by carts, and was common.
The defendant connected himself through conveyances for the premises inquestion, with the grant to John Forbes and Company, and
also with Curtis Lewis, and the mayor and aldermen of the city of
Mobile.
Such being the situation of the lot in question, and of the several
claims to the same, the act of the 26th of May, 1824, was passed.
The first section of this act can have no bearing upon the claim set
up to the lot in question, It only vests in the city of Mobile all the
right and claim of the United States to all the lots not sold or confirmed to individuals, either by this or any former act, and to which
no equitable title exists in favour of any individual, under this or
any other act. If, therefore, the second section applies to the lot in
question at all, it is excepted out of the first section. That the
second section does apply to this lot, has not been and cannot be
doubted. That section is as follows: " That all the right and claim
of the United States to so many of the lots of ground east of Water
street,.and between Churclh street and North Boundary street, now
known as water lots, as are situated between the channel of the
river and the front of the lots known under the Spanish government
as water lots, in the said city of Mobile, whereon improvements
have been made, be, and the same are hereby, vested in the several
proprietors- and occupants of each of the lots heretofore fronting on
the river Mobile; except in cases where such proprietor or occupant has alienated his right to any such lot, now designated as a
water lot, or the Spanish government has made a new grant or
order of survey for the same, during the time at which they had the
power to grant the same, in which case, the right and claim of the
United- States shall be, and is hereby, vested in the person to whom
such alienation, grant, or order of survey was made, or in his legal
representatives. Provided, that nothing in this act contained, shall
be construed to, affect the claim or claims, if any such there be, of
any individual or individuals, or of any body politic or corporate."
.There are two facts to be collected from this description. of the
lots embraced in this section of the act, which must be kept in view
in deciding this question, viz. that the lots on the west side of Water
street were known under the Spanish government as water lots;
and that the lots on the' east side of Water street, are now known as
water lots, and may properly be distinguished under the denomina
tion of old water lots, and new water lots.
The only question for this Court to decide is, whether the state
Court misconstrued this act, by deciding against the right and title
set up under it by Pollard's heirs. The record states, that the Court
charged the jury, that if the lot conveyed as above to John Forbes
and Company, by the deed aforesaid, was known as a water loi
under the Spanish government, and if the lot claimed by the plain
tiffs, had been improved at and previous to the 26th day of May,
1824, (the date of the law,) and was past of Water street, and imme
diately in front of the lot so conveyed to John Forbes and Company,

JANUARY' TERM, 1840.

363

[Loseo of Pollard's Heira vs. Kibbe.]

then the lot claimed passed by the act of Congress of the 26th of

May, 1824, to those at that time owning and occupying the lot so
as above conveyed to John Forbes and Company.
The facts hypothetically put by the Court to the jury had been
fully proved in the affirmative, and indeed were not at all denied;
to wit, that the lot conveyed to John Forbes and Company was
known under the Spanish government as a water lot; and that the
lot claimed by the plaintiffs had been improved previous to the 26th
of May, 1824, and was in front of the lot conveyed to John Forbes
and Company.
The construction therefore of the Court was, substantially, that
the act conveyed the lot in question to the owners and occupants of
the lot conveyed to John Forbes and Company. That such was the
construction of the act given by the Court, is conclusively shown by
the subsequent part of the charge: that it was immaterial who
made the improvements on the lot in dispute on the east side of
Water street. That by the said act of Congress, the proprietor of
the lot on the west side of Water street, Was entitled to the lot on
the east side of it.
;If this construction of the act was erroneous,, and against the
right claimed by the plaintiffs, the judgrhent must be reversed. The
act is, undoubtedly, very obscurely worded, and its construction, it
must be admitted, is doubtful.
The principal difficulty arises upon the'true understanding and
reference of the words, "whereon improvements have been made:"
whether they refer to improvements on the lot on the west side of
Water street, or on the lot in question on the east side of Water
street. The grammatical construction would undoubtedly refer the
improvements to the lot on the west side of the street, and would be
carrying into effect what is believed to be the general course of
policy in most of the United States, of giving a preference to the
owner -f land on the shore of navigable streams of water, tothe
right aid privilege of the land under the water between high and
low water mark. And on the other hand, it would seem unjust,
where actual improvements had been made on the land below high
water mark, to disregard and take away such improvements, and
give them to the owner of the lot on the west side of the street.
The evidence as to the extent and value of the improvements on
the lot in question is very loose, and affords.but little information
upon that point. They could probably have been but of little value.
They were made by Curtis Lewis, he not having any title, or even
claim of title. And it is not reasonable to suppose, that under such
circumstances, and from the short time he was in possession before
the passage of this act. that he would have made very valuable improvements. And if the intention of Congress had been to give
the lots on the east side of Water street to those who had improved
them, it would have required but a very plain and simple declaration to that effect; and might have been just and equitable, if such
improvements were valuable. But it is difficult to conceive how

364

SUPREME COURT.
(Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

the phraseology in 'the act could have been adopted to indicate such
intention.
It is not, however, necessary to decide upon the construction of
this act, as between the conflicting, claims of the owner of the lot
on the west side bf. Water street, and those who had made improvements on the lot on the east side of that street. For there is
excepted out of the act, all cases where the Spanish government
has made "a new grant," or order of survey for the same, during the
time at which they had "the power" to grant the same: in which
cases the right and claim of the United States are vested in the person to whom such grant or order of survey was made, or his legal
representatives. And if the plaintiffs bring themselves within this
exception, the right is secured to them. And this presents the question as to the construction to be given to this exception.
Two points of inquiry seem to be presented : one relates to the
description of the grant or order of survey therein mentioned;
and the other as to the time when made. The exception describes
these grants or orders of survey as "new gram " or orders of survey.
The term "new," in its ordinary acceptation when applied to the
same subject or object, is the opposite of old. But such cannot be
its meaning as here used: for there is no pretence that two grants
or orders of survey, had at any time been issued for the, same lot.
Some other meaning must, therefore, be given to it. And it, doubtless, was used in relation to the ex;sting condition of that part of
the territory, when grants or orders (f survey like the one in question were made. The territory had I een ceded to the United States
by the Louisiana treaty: but in consequ'ence of some dispute with
Spain respecting the bonndary line, this part of the territory remained in the possession of Spain. And it is a fact, established
by the public documents, and laws of Congress, and cases which
have come before this Court, that during the period between the
cession by France, and the acquiring possession by the United States,
Spain continued to issue evidences of title of various descriptions;
some complete grants, and others, which were only inchoate rights
or concessions. And the term "new" was very appropriately used as
applicable to grants and orders of surVey of this description, as contradistinguished from those issued before the cession. And thiconstruction is rendered certain, when the description of the grants
is connected with the subsequent part of the sentence as to the time
when made, to wit, during the time at which the Spanish government had "the power"' to grant the same. This time, according to
every reasonable intendment, must havet'teen so designated with reference to the existing state of the territory as between the United
States and Spain: the right to the territory being in the United
States, and the possession in Spain. The language, "during the
time at which Spain had the power to grant the same," was, under
such circumstances, very appropriately applied to the case. It
could with no propriety havebeen applied to the case, if Spain had
full dominion over the territory, by the union of right and posses-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

365

[Lessee of Poliard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

sion; and in this view it is no forced interpretation of the word
power, to consider it here used, as importing an imperfect right,
and distinguishable from complete lawful authority. And indeed
no other sensible construction can be given to the language here
used : and the course of the government of the United States, with
respect to the claims originating during this period would seem necessarily to call for this construction. The act of Congress of the
25th of April, 1812, appointing commissioners to ascertkain the titles
and claims to lands on the east side. of the river Mississippi, and
west of the river Perdido, and falling within the cession by France;
embraced all claims of this description; it extended to' all claims by
virtue of any grant, order of survey, or other evidence of claim
whatsoever, derived from the French, British, or Spanish governments. And the reports of the commissioners show that evidence
of claims of various descriptions, issued by Spanish authority down
to the year 1810, came under the examination of the commissioners:
and the legislation of Congress shows many laws passed confirming incomplete titles, originating after the date of the treaty between
France and Spain, at St. Ildefonso.
Such claims are certainly not beyond the reach of Congress to
confirm, although it may require a special act of Congress for that
purpose; and the present claim being founded upop such act, distinguishes-it from the doctrine of this Court in the cases of Foster
and Elam vs. Neilson, 2 Peters, 253; and Garcia vs. Lee, 12 Peters, 511. And such claims have been recognised by this Court as
existing claims, and not treated as being absolutely void. In the
case of Delacroix vs. Chamberlain, 12 Wheat. 599, an order of
survey issued during this period, came under the consideration of
the Court. It bore date in the year 1806. The Court said, this
order of survey was not suffidient to support an action of ejectment
not having been recorded or passed upon by the board of commissioners so as to vest a legal title. But the Court observed, that this
order of survey bears date at a time when the Spanish authorities
were in the actual possession of Mobile, where the land lies, and
it was claimed as a part of the Florida§, then belonging to the Spanish crown; and the United States claimed it as a part of Louisiana.
That the United States, having since purchased the Floridas, without having previously settled the controverted boundary, rendered
it unnecessary to examine these conflicting claims. And the Court
add, if the United States, and Spain had settled this dispute by
treaty, before they extinguished the claim of Spain to the Floridas,
the boundary fixed by such treaty would have bound all parties.
But as that was not done, the United States have never, so far as
we can discover, distinguished between the concessions of land
made by the Spanish authorities within the disputed territory, while
Spain was in the actual possession of it, from concessions of a similar
character made by Spain, within the acknowledged limits. We
will not, therefore, raise any question upon the ground of want of
authority in the intendant to make such concession. Nothing more
2 H2

368

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs Vs. Xibbe.J

is to be'understood .from this case, than that the, Court, did not con
sider the circumstance that the concession being made whilst Spain
was in the actual possession of the territory, had prevented eongress from acting on the subject of such concessions And when
Congress, in the act of 26th of May, 1824, excepts certain grants or
orders of survey, made by Spain during the time'at which they had
the power to grant the same: the conclusion i§ irresistible, that it
included grants like the one to William Pollard, now in question.
This grant bears date on the 9th day of December, in the year 1809,
and was rejected by the commissioners for want of improvement
and occupation; and not because it was absolutely void. But suppose it had. been' void under the, then 'existing laws in relatioh to
these lands, it could not prevent Congress from afterwards confirming this grant. The act of the 26th of March, 1804, (2 Story, 939,
sec. 14,) declaring certain grants void; could not affect the one to
Pollard, which was made in the year 1809, after the passage 'of
that law.
But if the construction of the act of the 26th of May, 1824, is
doubtful, as it is admitted to be, the act of the 2d July, 1836, is
entitled to great weight in aiding to remove that doubt. It is an
act specially for the relief of William Pollard's heirs. It declares,
that there shall be, and hereby is, confirmed unto the heirs of William Pollard, deceased, a certain lot of ground, situated in the city
of Mobile, and bounded as follows, to wit: On the north by what
was formerly known as John Forbes and Company's canal; on the
west by Water street, on the south by the King's wharf, and on the
east by the channel of the river; being the description of the lot
now in question; and directing a patent to be issued in the usual
form for the same. There is a proviso, declaring that this act shall
not interfere with or affect the claims of third personp. But giving
to this proviso its full force and effect, the enacting clause is a legislative construction of the act of 1824, and locates the patent thereby
directed to be issued upon the lot now in question. They are acts
in par materia, and are to be construed together; and in such a
manner, if the language will reasonably admit of it, as to permit
both acts to stand together and remain in full force. It is not to be
presumed, that Congress would grant or even simply release the
right of the United States to land confessedly before granted. This,
would be only holding out inducements to litigation. And these
two acts cannot stand together without considering the lot in question as coming within the exception of the act of 1824; and the
act of 1836, as a confirmation, (as it purports to be,) of the title to
the heirs of William Pollard.
IThe judgment of the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama
is,
accordingly, reversed.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN.
I agree to the judgment of reversal in this case; and as my opinion
is mainly founded on the construction of the second section of the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

867

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

act of 1S24, without reference to the exceptions it contains, I will
state, in a very few words, my views in regard to that section.
It declares "that all the right and claim of the United States to so
many of the lots of ground east of Water street, and between Church
street and North Boundary street, now known as water lots, as are
situated between the channel of the river and the front of the lots
known under the Spanish government as water lots, in the said city
-bf Mobile, whereon improvements have been made, be, and the
same are hereby vested in the several proprietors and occupants of
each of the lots heretofore fronting on the river Mobile; except in
cases where such proprietor or occupant has alienated his right to
any such lot, now designated as a water lot, orthe Spanish government has made a new grant," &c.,
The lots first named in this section are those to which the right
of the United States is relinqiished; and those lots are now denominated water lots, in contradistinction to those called water lots
under the Spanish government.
"All the right and claim of the United States is relinquished to so
many of the lots of ground"--then follows a description of the
locality of these lots, lying "east of Water street, and between
Church street and North Boundary street, now known as water lots,
as are situated between the channel of the river and the front of the
lots known under the Spanish government as water lots, in the said
city of Mobile :" and here the description of the locality of these
lots ends, and the words "whereon improvements have been made,"
follow. Now I entertain no doubt the improvements must be made
on the lots first named, and to which the United States relinquish
their right; and not on those lots named merely to show the local
situation of the present water lots. And this is the construction
given to the section by the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The improvements then must be made on the water lot; and the
lot in controversy, in this case, is a water lot.
The Court instructed the jury that "if the lot claimed by the
plaintiffs had been improved at and previous to the 26th May, 1824,
and was east of Water street, and immediately in front of the lot so
conveyed to John Forbes and Company, then the lot claimed, passed
by the act of Congress, to those at that time owning and occupying
the lot so as above conveyed to John Forbes and Company; and that
it was immaterial who made the improvements on the disputed lot."
The second section gives to the proprietor of the lot fronting the
water lot, such water lot, provided it has been improved.
Now two things must concur to give a title under this act; and
these are, proprietorship of the front lot, and improvements on the
water lot. But, by whom must these improvements be made or
owned, at the passage of the law ?
The act does not specify; and the Court instructed the jury that
if improvements were made, it was not material by whom they
were made. Can this be the true construction of the act?
Congress did not intend to give to the proprietor of the
front lot

268

SUPREME COURT.
(Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

the water lot, unless it was improved; nor did they intend to give to
the person who had improved the water lot, such lot, unless he was
the proprietor of the front lot. The improvements of the water lot
were as essential 'to the claim of title under this act, as the proprietorship of the front lot. And can it be supposed that Congress intended to give the water lot to the proprietor of the front lot, for the
reason that the water lot had been improved by a stranger? In
other words, that Congress, by a solemn act of legislation, would
give a lot of ground to one man, because it had been improved by
another? This is the principle asserted by this construction; and
it is so unjust, and so directly-opposed to the legislation of Congress,
in regard to the pre-emptive rights, on the ground of improvements,
that I am unwilling to sanction it. There is no instance in the
entire history of legislation by Congress, where they have sanctioned such a principle. The policy has been to secure to the individual the benefits of his own labour and expenditure. And I am
of the opinion that unless the proprietor of the front lot was, on the
26th May, 11824, also the proprietor of the improvements on the
water lot, he can claim no title under the act.
Mr. Justice BAL WIN.
I fully concur with the Court on all the points embraced in their
opinions, as well as the reasons assigned; being fully satisfied with
the construction given to the acts of Congress of 1804, 1824, and
1836, I have no desire to add any thing to the conclusive views presented in the opinion. But there are other important considerations
necessarily connected with the merits of the case, which induce me
to notice them in a separate, opinion, leading to the same conclusion
on
other
. As
it grounds.
has been my assigned duty on several occasions to examine the subject qf claims and titles to land, in the various territories which the United States acquired by cession from Georgia,
France, and Spain; a broad and varied field of investigation has
been opened, on a part of which there has been no opinion of
this Court as yet .delivered. That part is a review of the political condition of the territory between the Perdido and Missis,
sippi, from 1800 to 1821, under the Louisiana treaty, the various
acts of the executive and legislative departments of this government,
in relation to its cession, occupation, government, and adjustment
of claims therein, the constitution, and laws of nations; before the
ratification of the treaty of 1819, and in connexion with that treaty;
the judicial exposition of both -treaties by this Court. It is a subject
of high concern to numerous claimants of land within that territory;
to the United 'States, both in interest and in relation to the formal
complaints made by Spain of the omission "to cause the grants of
the king to be respected, according to the stipulation of the eighth
article of the treaty of 1819." This complaint was made soon after
the decision of the case of Foster and Elam vs. Neilson, in 1829;
and in 1832 the Secretary of State, after the decision of the case of

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

269

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

Arredondo, made to the House of Representatives a long and full
report in relation to these grants; in which he states the opinion of
the executive department to be most decidedly in favour of their
confirmation, on every ground on which they 'could be considered;
and especially on the faith and honour of the United States pledged
in the treaty. He felt himself to be unable to answer what he declared to be the just demands and complaints of.Spain, and assigned
as the sole reason why the executive had not recommended an immediate confirmation of the grants by Congress, the two decisions
of this Court in those two cases.
Under such- circumstances, I take this occasion to throw this
responsibility from the Court, in the course now pursued, and, hope
to show most clearly that those decisions have hitherto been much
misapprehended; and when taken in connexion with subsequent
ones, they most conclusively establish the right of the grantees of
Spain in the disputed terriiory, derived.from grants made between
1803 and 1810, while Spain was in the undisputed possession west
of the Perdido, independently of the treaty of 1819, a fortiori by its
stipulations. In so doing I admit in the fullest manner, for all the
purposes of this case, and the prii~ciples it involves, that this Court
is bound to take the east boundary of Louisiana to be the Perdido ;
that it was a political question, whih having been settled by the
political departments of the government, cannot be questioned in
this; and that,. as held in Foster and Elam, 2 Peters, 309, no title
can be maintained under a Spanish grant; "singly" on the ground
that the Spanish construction of the treaty of 1803 was right, and
the American construction wrong.
Keeping this principle in view, I shall consider the title of the
plaintiff under a Spanish concession, made in 1809, by the lawful
authority of the king, independent of its confirmation by any special
act of Congress; as resting on its validity by the laws of nations,
the Constitution of 'the United States, the ordinance of 1787, the
two treaties, and the general course of legislation 'by Congress, in
relation to government and property in the disputed territory. It
will be observed, that the claim of the plaintiff was duly filed and
recorded, pursuant to the acts of Congress for adjusting claims to
land west 6f the 'Perdido; he is, therefore, not deprived of any
benefit which they confer or rights which are reserved, but may
rely on any support they may give to his title, by his having complied with all the requisitions enjoined. On a subject so broad, so
interesting, so vitally affecting the rights of private property, under
cessions by foreign powers, or the states of this Union to the United
States; the course of argument or opinion has .hitherto been too
limited on the course of the political departments of the government, to save the necessity of the course herein pursued. It has
been rather assumed, than deduced from that detailed investigation
which can alone lead to a satisfactory result, on matters so complicated and interwoven into our system of territorial, state and
federal governments.

'70

SUPREME COURT.
(Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.)

In 1800, Spain ceded Louisiana to France, by the treaty of St.
Ildefonso, but retained peaceable possession till May 1803, when it
was surrendered to France in the same manner in which it was
ceded by the previous treaty, declaring that, "the limits of both
shores of the Mississippi shall remain forever fixed by the treaty of
Paris, in 1763; and consequently, the settlements from the river
Manshack or Ibervitle, to the line which divides the American territory from the dominions of the king, shall remain in the possession of Spain, and annexed to West Florida." Vide 2 Peters, 303.
White's Comp. 164.
In October, 1803, Congress authorized the President to take possession of and occupy the territory ceded by France to the United
States, and to organize a temporary government, "for maintaining
and protecting the inhabitants of Louisiana, in the free enjoyment
of their liberty, property, and religion." 2 Story, 907.
In December following, France surrendered the province to the
United States, as it was ceded by Spain to France, under the same
clauses and conditions, &c.; and as this Court have declared, "in
every respect with all its rights and appurtenances, as it was held
by France, and received by France from Spain." 10 Peters, 732.
. Spain then was in the possession of the disputed territory, by the
consent of France, expressed in the surrender of Louisiana; and,
the acceptance of the surrender by France to the United States, as
she received it from Spain, was equally a consent by, the United
States to the continuance of the possession of Spain. Though the
United States soon asserted her right to the "sovereignty and propriety" over and in the territory as far east as the Perdido, no attempt was made to disturb the possession of Spain till 1810. From
1803 till October, 1810, the condition of the country was this: Spain
was the acknowledged sovereign de facto, in the peaceable exercise
of all the powers of government, and claiming to be also the sovereign de jure; the United States neither asserting nor exercising the
powers of a government de facto, but asserting her right as sovereign do jure under the treaty of 1803; and as this Court said,
" No practical application of the laws of the United States to this
part of the territory was attempted, nor could be made while the
country remained in the actual possession of a foreign power."
2 Peters, 304.
In October, 1810, the President, by his proclamation, ordered military possession to be taken of the disputed territory; declared the
laws of the United States to be in force. within it; and ordered the
inhabitants to be obedient thereto ; but it was also declared, that in
the hands of the United States, the territory was "still left a subject
of fair and friendly negotiation and adjustment," &c. And, "under
the full assurance that the inhabitants shall be protected in the enjoyment of their liberty, property, and religion." Vide 3 State
Papers, Foreign Relations, 397, 398. Proclamation at large. At
this time there was a revolutionary convention in session at Baton
Rouge. within the disputed territory, claiming to be an independent

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

371

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.)

government, to be admitted into the Union; and also claiming the
"unlocated lands" therein, Ibid. 395, 396.
In replying to these propositions, the Secretary of State, in November, 1810, in asserting the right of the United States as far as
the Perdido, by the treaty of 1803, Says: "The delivery of possession has, indeed, been deferred, and the procrastination has been
heretofore acquiesced in by this government, from a hope patiently
indulged, that amicable ncgotiation would accomplish the purpose
of the United, States," &c. The Secretary then makes these re-marks: "The vacant land of this territory, thrown into common
stock with all the other vacant land of the Union, will be a property
in common for the national uses of all the people of the United
States. The community of interest upon which this government
invariably acts,, the liberal policy which it has uniformly displayed
towards the people of the territories, (a part of which policy has
ever been a just regard to honest settlers,) will, nevertheless, be a
sufficient pledge to the inhabitants of West Florida, for the early
and continued attention of the federal legislature to their situation
and their wants." Ibid. 398.
In enclosing the President's proclamation to the governor of Mississippi, the Secretary of State directs him to do whatever his
powers will warrant, to "secure to the inhabitants the peaceable
enjoyment 6f their liberty, property, and religion and to place
them as far as may be, on the same footing with the inhabitants
of the other districts under his authority." Ibid. 396, 397.
In January, 1811, the President recommended to Congress, in a
confidential message, the expediency of authorizing him "to take
temporary possession of any part of Florida; in pursuance of arrangements with the Spanish authorities, and for rhaking proivision
3 State
for the go crnment of the same during such possession.'
Papers, Foreign Affairs, 394, 395. A law was accordingly passed,
giving the authority required as to the territory east of the Perdido,
and south of Georgia and the Mississippi territory, and for organizing
a government for the protection and maintenanceof the inhabitants
of the said territory, in the full enjoyment of their liberty, property,
and religion. At the same time, Congress resolved under certain
contingencies, on the "temporary occupation of the territory adjoining the south border of the United States; they at the same
time declare, that the said territory shall in their hands remain subject to future negotiatioii." 6 Laws, 592, 593.
In February, 1813, the President was authorized "to occupy and
hold all that tract of country called West Florida, which lies west
of the Perdido, not now in the possession of the United States;"
for which purpose, and "for affording protection to the inhabitants,
under the authority of the United States; the President was authorized to employ the military and naval force of. the United
States." 6 Laws of the United States, 593. This resolution and
law remained unpublished till 1821, after the final ratification of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

treaty of 1819; but under them the whole disputed territory was
taken and held by the United States, till it was annexed to the
adjacent states by acts of Congress.
In 1812, that portion which was situated between the Iberville,
the Mississippi, the east branch of Pearl river, and the Mississippi
territory, was annexed to Louisiana on condition that a law should
be passed "securing to the people of the said territory, equal rights,
privileges, benefits, and advantages, with those enjoyed by the
people of the other parts of the state." Vide, 2 Story, 1224. 1230.
A law was passed by Louisiana, in compliance with this condition.
In May of the same year, that portion which was situated between
the east boundary of Louisiana and the Perdido, was annexed to
the Mississippi te'rritory, to be governed "by the laws now in force,
or which may be hereafter enacted, and the laws and ordinances of
the United States relative thereto, as if the same had originally
formed a part thereof," &c., 2 Story, 1248; by subsequent acts, this
part of the territory was divided between Mississippi and Alabama, and thence formed a part of those states, the former of which
was admitted into the Union before the signature of the treaty of
1819, and the latter in December following. Vide, 3 Story, 1617.
1620. 1635. 1735. 1804.

2 Peters, 308.

From this summary view of the course of the executive and,
legislative branches of the government, it is apparent, that they
were in the assertion of the territorial rights of the United States, as
claimed by them under the treaty of 1803; it is also apparent from
the solemn pledges made by both departments, that the possession of
the country was taken and held by force, yet subject to future negotiation as to the right of sovereignty and propriety, and full assurances to the inhabitants of being maintained and protected in
the free enjoyment of their property.
Before proceeding to the stipulations of either treaty, it is now
necessary to notice those acts of Congress which are referred to in
the President's proclamation of 1810, in which he declares, "That
the acts of Congress relating to this territory, though contemplating
a present possession by a foreign authority, have contemplated, also,
an eventual possession of the said territory by the United States,
and are accordingly so framed as to extend their operation to the
same."
3 State Papers, For. Af. 397.
The principles of this proclamation were adopted by Congress,
whereby the laws which bound the inhabitants of the disputed territory, at the same time protected them in their rights of property,
as completely as in the island of Orleans, or west of the Mississippi;
these laws were suspended in their operation during the occupation
of Spain, but applied to the whole country ceded by France to the
United States, as soon as it came into their possession, and their
provisions, from the first to the last, are of a uniform character.
Whenever Congress gave authority to take possession of the ceded
territory, and provide for its temporary government, the declared

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

373

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

object was, "to maintain and protect the inhabitants in the enjoyment of their property," &c., as has been seen in the act of 1803.
2 Story, 907.

By the act of 1804 it was provided, that "1no law shall be valid
which is fnconsistent with the laws and Constitution of the United
States." 2 Story, 933. "The laws in force in the said territory, and
not inconsistent with this act, shall continue in force until altered,
modified, or repealed." 2 Story, 937.
The act of 1805 authorized a government similar to that of
the Mississippi territory, and declared the ordinance of 1787 in
force, (except as to the descent of estates, and slavery;) and continued the existing laws till altered, &c.; it also authorized the admission of the territory into the UnionAaccording to the third article of
the treaty of 1803. 2 Story, 963! 964.
As this act placed the whole ceded terrritory under the 'same
system of government as Mississippi, we must look to the acts of
1798 and 1800, which organized a government over that territory,
(before any cession was made. y Georgia to the United States,)
without the consent of Georgia, and while the whole territory over
which the United States thus assumed jurisdiction, was claimed by
Georgia. This is necessary, in order to ascertain what effect the
United States intended that their occupation of the territory then in
controversy should have upon the rights of Georgia, or of the proprietors of lands claiming under that state. This is the more important, when the compact with Georgia, in 1802, is applied to the
pre-existing state of things in the territory in dispute between her
and the United States; for it will be found in all respects analogous
to the state of things existing in the country west of the Perdido,
before the treaty of 1819 took effect; and that the proclamation of
the President, and the acts of Congress, for taking the possession of
West Florida, and annexing it to the contiguous territories first, and
then to the states, contain pledges fully as strong, and to the same
import, as those. given to Georgia by this provision of the acts of
1798 and 1800: " That the establishment of the said government
shall in no respect impair the right of the state, of Georgia, or of any
person or persons, either to the jurisdiction or the soil of the said
territory; but the rights and claims of the said state, and of all persons interested, are hereby declared to be as firm and available as
if this act had never been made." 1 Story, 495. 778.
In connection with this provision, it must be observed, that up to
1797, Spain had claimed and occupied the southern portion of the
Mississippi territory as part of Florida; pursuant to the treaty of
1795, she surrendered all the country north of the 310 north latitude
to the United States. The words, "any" and "all persons," extend,
therefore, as well to those who claimed lands north of that line
under Spain, as those who claimed under Georgia; and as Spain
had relinquished her rights to the territory, those of Georgia alone
were noticed, while the granters of either stood on the same precise footing under these laws. But the treaty of 1795, between
VOL. XIV.-2 I-

374 ,

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

the United States and Spain, gave those claiming under her this
protection. "It is also agreed, that the inhabitants of the territory
of each party, shall respectively have free access to the Courts of
justice of the other ; and they shall be permitted to'prosecute suits
for the recovery of their property, &c.; and the proceedings and
sentences of the said Courts, shall be the same as if the contending
parties had been citizens or subjects of the said (same) country."
Art. 20, 1 Laws U. S. 276.
This analogy between the condition of the territory south of the
310 north latitude, and west of the Perdido, and that which lies
north thereof, has been made the more applicable by the act of 1812,
which, it has been seen, applies the laws andcordinances of the United
States, and the laws then in force, to the territory west of the Perdido, precisely as "if it had formed originally a part of the Mississippi territory." 2 Story, 1248. And as the act of 1805 put the
territorial government of Louisiana and Mississippi oil the same
footing, all the laws applicable to the one must be applied to the
other and every part of it, whehever the United States assumed the
powers of government. The act of 1805 adopted the ordinance of
1787, enacted for the government of the territory north and west of the
Ohio in general terms; the act of 1798 is more explicit in declaring,
That from the establishment of the said government, the people of
the aforesaid territory shall be entitled t9 and enjoy all and singular
ihe rights, privileges, and advantages granted "by that ordinance,"
in as full and ample manner as they are enjoyed "by them." 1
Story, 495.
Among these rights, &c., are that of trial by jury, the writ of
habeas corpus, judicial proceedings according to the course of the
common law, the protection of property, the inviolability of contracts, and the right of admission into the Union,-on an equal footing
with the original states. 1 Laws'U. S. 479. In addition to which,
the third article of the Louisiana treaty stipulates, that "the inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in the Union of
the United States, and admitted as soon as possible, according to the
principles of the Vederal Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the
rights, advantages, and immunities of citizens of the United States;
and, int the meantime,. they shall be maintained and protected in
the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the religion they
profess."
This, then, was the condition of the disputed territory and its
inhabitants, from the time the United States took possession and
governed it as a part of their territory. The right of sovereignty
and general propriety remained subject to pending negotiation; the
civil rights of the people, and their rights of property were protected
by-various acts of Congress: the ordinance of 1787, the treaty of
1803, and the Constitution of the United States, The local laws
remained in force till altered, and the political rights of the people
were such as existed in all the other territories. I Peters, 542.
When these territories became states, the inhabitants thereof became

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

375

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

citizens of those states, and, as such, entitled to all the rights which
citizens enjoyed in other states; and the subj'ects of Spain, who
owned or claimed property, had, by the twentieth article- of the
treaty of 1795, the same right of suing for its recovery in the Courts
of the United States, as one of its citizens had. 9 Peters, 234.
On this state of things, the treaty of 1819 had no influence;
at the time of its ratification, the whole disputed territory was
annexed to the contiguous states; the inhabitants were incorporated in the Union, and were citizens of the United States; and
the respective states, in virtue of what this Court most. truly denominate acts of '"sovereign power," exercised by them under the
treaty of 1803, over a part of what the United States insisted and
Spain denied, was a part of Lotiisiana; claiming only to stand in the
place of the king, and, during negotiation, to exercise the powers
and rights which he had exercised zill 1810 ; the United States had
never attempted by law to impair any right of private property, or
to insert such stipulation into the treaty of 1819, (2 White's Rec.
498,) but expressly disclaimed such intention, and admitted the
validity of all fair grants. 2 White's-Rec. 499, &c.
Every public act of Congress from 1803 till 1813, which authorized
the President to take possession of Louisiana, or to establish therein
a temporary government, and every law which related to the
subject, contained an express guarantee of property; the same guarantee was also given by the President in 18f0, when in virtue of the
act of 1803, he took forcible ahl military possession of the disputed
territory. And Congress confirmed this guarantee by their, secret
acts of 1811 and 1813; unless protection to the inhabitants of the
territory con'sisted in confiscating their lands, and depriving them
of the property acquired under the government and laws of Spain,
while she held possession with the consent of the United States.
Every act of the executive and legislative brahches of the government, shows that ihe contest with Spain was for the right of sovereignty
over-the territory, and the propriety in the vacant land therein; not
for the right to what had been granted according to the laws of Spain,
or which had otherwise become private property. 6 Peters, 735.
Claiming the territory between the Perdido and the Mississippi
by the Louisiana treaty, the United States were bound, by the express terms 'of the second article, which included "Islands beonging to Louisiana, all public lots and squares, vacant lands, and
all public buildings, fortifications, barracks, and other edifices, which
are not private property." 7 Peters, 87, 88. No land which was not
vacant, (no land which was private property,) passed to the United
States, but was eicepted from the cession, not only by the second
article, but by the guarantee by the United States, to the inhabitants
in the third article, of the free enjoyment of their property, until
their admission into the Union. From the pledge to maintain and
protect this right, the United States never set up any absolution, or
rom the pledge to hold the territory subject to future negotiation.
What was considered as vacant land by the executive department

376

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

in 1810, has been seen by the letter of the Secretary of State, on
the same day as the proclamation of the President, that land which
was to be thrown into the common stock, with all the other vacant
land of the United States, for the national uses of all the people
thereof; land which remained as a part of the royal domain when
the United States took possession in virtue of the treaty of 1803,
'which was not private property.
This state of things as to government and property in the disputed
territory, fully justified the view which the executive department of
the government took of this subject in 1832, which was in p~rfect
accordance with the proclamation of the President twenty-two years
before, and with the course of the legislature from 1811 to 1819, in
relation to the rights of private property in the disputed territory,
held under grants of the Spanish authorities, before the United
States took possession. It was by both departments the most
solemn recognition of the principle, that a contest between the two
governments concerning territorial boundary, did not and should
iot impair individual rights of property, and of its practical operation on grants made by the government in possession; and such
recognition carried with it the most sacred obligations, to carry that
principle out in all its consequences, independently of any stipulation in the treaty of 1819.
By the third article of the Louisiana treaty, the United States
were bound to protect and maintain the inhabitants of the ceded
territory, "in the free enjoyment" of their "property," until they
were incorporated into the Union; and when so incorporated, to
admit them "to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages, and
immunities of citizens of the United States." From the moment of
such incorporation, the Constitution of the United States, and its
amendments, interposed between the inhabitants and the legislative
power of the United States the same guarantee which any citizen of,
any other state had a right to claim for the enjoyment of his property; and every proprietor, alien, or citizen, had the same constitutional right to invoke the protection of the judicial power of the
state or Union, against the invasion of his rights of person or property, wherever he might be located. 2 Peters, 235.
That such incorporation was by acts "of sovereign power by the
United States," exerted by military operations, expelling the existing
authority of Spain, and compelling the inhabitants to submit to that
of the United States,,so far from diminishing, increases their constitutional and treaty obligation; for such forced submission is in the
nature of articles of capitulation, the observance of which is enjoined
by the laws and practice of all civilized nations. 1 Peters, 542.
The proclamation of the President and the acts of Congress declared
the terms on which the United States established their authority;
the inhabitants submitted, and thereby became entitled to the threefold protection of the Constitution, treaty, and law of nations. 2 Dall.
1, &c.

Had Spain made a voluniary transfer of the allegiance of her

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

377

(Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

subjects in this part of Louisiana, as she did in the residue, the duty
of the United Statos could not have been doubted; it never has been
doubted by any department of the government, or any member of
it, as to every other portion of the territory ceded by the treaty of
1803; and the universal opinion of the people and government has
been, that the rights acquired, and the obligations imposed by that
treaty, were throughout concomitant. Spain, indeed, might deny
the right of the United States west of the Perdido, to have become
in any way strengthened by the annexation of that part of Louisiana to the adjacent states, by ai: act of war or mere sovereign power;
but when the United States undertook to construe and execute the
treaty in their own way; and as they did in asserting their rights
accruing by the cession; every rule and principle of national honour,
faith, and law, would be violated, if they should deny their duty to
comply with the terms of the treaty, Which alone gave them any
right, or with the pledges which they gave when they took possessession in virtue of its stipulations.
It matters not by what right the United States held the disputed
territory, at the time of its inc0rporation into the Union; had it been
done without the colour of right, or had East Florida been so incorporated before the treaty of 1819, the conseqVences would have been
the same.; by the very and sole act of such incorporation, th6 inha,
bitants became citizens of the United States, their property was protected, and alien proprietors became entitled to all rights secured
to them by any treaty between their sovereign and the United
States.
In addition to these considerations, the acts of Congress from 1803
till 1811, before the United States took forcible possession, which,
as the President declared in his proclamation in 1810, were "so
framed" as to apply to that territory whenever the contemplated
eventual possession by the United States should take place, secured to the inhabitants every protection which those laws, the
treaty, and ordinance of 1787 could impart; and no subsequent law
has attempted to impair any right thus secured, denied its exist,
ence, or asserted any right in the United States to lands which were
private property in 1810. A more clear and correct exposition of
the policy and course of the United States cannot be presented than
the following remarks of the Secretary of the Treasury, in presenting a plan for the final adjustment of all claims by Spanish grants,
pursuant to resolutions of thp Senate and House of Representatives
in 1818.
"In presenting a plan of final adjustment, in which no other description of claims are comprehended than those which are founded
upon patents and concessions issued by the several governments
which have at different times exercised sovereign jurisdiction over the
late province of Louisiana, as held by France, the undersigned, &c.
has proceeded upon the conviction that ample provision has already
been made for the adjustment of all claims to lands contemplated by
the resolution founded upon evidence inferior to patents and con
2i2

48

378

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

cessions. He has arrived at this conviction by a careful examina
lion of the several acts of Congress for ascertaining and adjusting
land titles in Louisiana, which have been passed since the 20th
day of December, I803, the period at which possession was taken
of that province by the United States. 'This long series of acts,
commencing with the 26th March, 1804, and terminating with the
29th April, 1816, presents an uninterrupted and uniform course of
relaxatio in favour of land claimants of every description. This
relaxation has generally been effected by comprehending descriptions of cases not recognised by previous acts, by extending the
time within which notices of claims and production of evidence
were required, and by giving authority not only to decide upon such
claims, but to revise and confirm such as had been previously rejected.
When it is considered that in all these respects relaxations have been
frequent, and that the evidence upon which the claims have in the
first instance, and in each successive revision -been decided, has in
most cases been that alone which has been produced by the party
in interest, it is extremely. improbable that injustice has been done
by the rejection of claims which ought to have been co ifirmed."
"Considering then that the titles to lands in the state cf Louisiana,
west of the east boundary of the island of New Orleans, so far as
they are derived from or dependent upon any act of Congress, are
correctly and finally settled; nothing more is necessary than to prescribe a rule by which the validity of titles not dependent upon the
acts of Congress. may be promptly and legally determined," &c.
3 State Pap. Public Lands, 393.
The Secretary then presented a bill pr6viding for the final adjustment of claims to lands throughout the whole extent of Louisiana,
including those in the disputed territory, but it was not enacted into
a law; Congress however continued to act as they had before done,
in a spirit of unceasing liberality towards claimants, each successive
law relaxing from the strictness of former ones.
This is apparent from an inspection of the various acts of. Congress from 1805, in relation generally to claims to land in Louisiana;
as the principles of this case -require a reference only to those laws
which relate to the territory between the Perdido and the Mississippi, the others need not be noticed any farther than in the preceding general review by:the Secretary of the Treasury, andhe following declaration made by this Court in 1827, in reference to the
legislation of Congress, which .is quoted in the opinion in the present case: that "the United States have never, so far as we can discover, distinguished between the concessions of land made by the
Spanish authorities within the disputed territory, whilst Spain was
inthe actual occupation of it, from concessions of a similar character
made by Spain within the acknowledged limits."
12 Wheat. 600,
601.

This declaration will be found to b fully justified by a teference
to all the acts of Congress, in relation not only to their whole terri.
tory acquire4 by the treaty of 1803, but to that which was acquired

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

379

. Lesee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

by the compact or treaty of cession between Georgia and the United
States, in 1802. By this compact, Georgia ceded to the United
States the right of soil and jurisdiction, to atl the territory within her
chartered boundaries, which was situated west of the Chatahouchee,
on certain conditions; one of which was, that all grants of land
made by the British or Spanish governments, before the 25th October, 1795, &c., should be confirmed; to carry which into effect, various laws were passed in 1803, 1804, and 1805.

2 Story, 894..952.

966. These acts related to the territory north of 311 of latitude,
which had been the subject '-f controversy between the governments of Florida, while under Great Britain, and Georgia, within
which the governor of West Florida had. made grants before the
cession to Spain by the treaty of peace in 1783 ; within which
Spain made grants from that time till 1797, when she gave up possession to the United States; and within which Georgia had, also
madE' grants up to the Mississippi. It was, therefore, in the strictest
sense, disputed territory, claimed by the three parties, the United
States, Spain, and Georgia, at the date of the grants. The laws relating to the adjustment of titles to land therein, necessarily referred
to grants made by a government de facto, which the United States
denied was a government de jure; and the laws, being on a kindred
subject, would of course be analogous in their provisions, and receive the same construction, as those which related to the territory
which was in dispute between the United States and Spain, from
1804 till 1821.
. In examining the provisions of all the laws for adjusting the claims
to lands in Louisiana and Florida, they will be found to be patterned
from those in relation to the compact with Georgia; and, as will be
seen hereafter, have been construed alike by this Court. The first
law which related exclusively to claims to land west of the Perdido,
was passed in 1812; the previous laws applied generally to Louisiana as ceded by the treaty, making no distinction between that
part which was disputed, and that which was in the possession of the
United States, as surrendered in 1803. But as the practical operation
of the laws of the United States depended on the President, in his
execution of the authority conferred on him by the act of 1803,
2 Story, 907 ; it is evident, that these laws could not be carried into
effect by establishing land offices and organizirg boards of commissioners to adjust claims to land within that part of the terrio'ry,
which was at the time occupied and governed by Spain. No government can exercise legislative powers within the territory actually in
the possession of another sovereign; this can be done only when
such possession is displaced by force, or surrendered by treaty, or
otherwise; hence it appears, that no provision was made for the
adjustment of claims to lands west of the Perdido, till by the President's proclamation, the resolution and acts of Congress, the United
States had obtained possession of the greater part of West Florida.
Then the act of 1812 provided for the appointment of cominissioners, with the powers conferted by former laws; directed all

380

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

claimants to lands in the disputed territory, to deliver notice and
evidence of their claims within a limited time, and to state the written evidence thereof; whether the claims arose under the British,
French, or Spanish governments, together with the nature and extent
thereof, &c., &c. 'Provided, That where the claim is by a complete
grant, it shall not be necessary to have any other evidence entered
than the original grant, order of survey, and plot of the land. On
failure to deliver notice of the claim as required by law, the claim
shall never after be confirmed or recognised by the United States,
or any written evidence thereof, which shall not be recorded, ever
after be admitted in evidence in any Court of, the United States,
agziinst any grant which may thereafter be made by the United
States. 2 Story, 1235. The commissioners are empowered to inquire into tne justice and validity of all claims filed with them; and
it is made their duty to ascertain whether the land claimed has been
inhabited and cultivated, when it commenced, when it was surveyed, by whom, on what authority,; and every matter which may
affect the justice and validity of the claim; 'to arrange the claims
into classes, according to their respective merits, and to make a report thereon for the final action of Congress. 2 Story, 1235. By
the act of 1814, the commissioners were directed to receive evidence
in support of any claims not embraced in the former law. 2 Story,
1427. Pursuant to these laws, reports were made by the commissioners classifying the claims thus:
1. Claims founded on complete British, French, or Spanish grants,
which in their opinion are valid, agreeably to the laws, usages, and
customs of such governments; in all four' hundred and thirty claims.
2. Claims founded on orders of survey, (requette,) permission to
settle, .or other written evidence of claim derived from either
government, which ought to be confirmed; in all four hundred and
twenty-six claims.
3. Claims founded on complete grants said to be derived under
such governments, which, in the opinion of the commissioners, are
not valid; in all fifty-eight claims.
4. Claims founded on orders of survey, &c., which oughi not to
be confirmed; in all two hundred and ninety-eight.
5. Claims of actual settlers not derived from either government;
in all one thousand four hundred and twenty. ,V,ide, Reports of
Commissioners. 3 State Papers, Public Lands, 6, 7. 5. 38-48. 13.
58, 59. 66, 67-76. 254-268.

The reasons for rejetting the third and fourth classes of claims,
are founded on the fourteenth section of the act of 1804; that they
were made after the cession by France to the Uaited States; that
the grants were unusually large, and made after Spain had ceased
to have any right or interest in the soil: but it is added, "Admitting the claim of the United States to the country above mentioned
to be unquestionable, (and I see no reason to doubt it,) the 'question
then arises, how far the possession of that country by the Spanish
government, after the right of the United States accrued, ought to

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

381

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs v. Kibbe.]

affect those .claims which were granted by the former government,
during the time which intervened between the purchase, and the
time when possession was taken by the United States? If the
United States had taken possession of West Florida at the same
time that they did of Louisiana west of the Mississippi, many
serious injuries to individuals might have been prevented. As this
was not the case, it becomes an inquiry of interest and importance,
whether the government is not morally bound, both by considerations of equity and policy, to make them a compensation commensurate to the injuries they may have sustained. This could be
done by making them donations of any quantity of land which the
government may deem just; particularly that class of claimants
who have improved and cultivated their lands. They are not
numerous; and with few exceptions, their claims are moderate. It
may not be impertinent, also, to remark, that generally speaking,
they were such persons as were most liabie to be deceived by the
Spanish officers.
"In relation to that class of claimants who have not inhabited or
cultivated their lands, which is generally the case with those who
hold large claims, it appears to the commissioner, that the government of the United States is not legally bound to confirm them.
Nevertheless, from a variety of considerations which will, doubtless,
enter into the decision of this question, the government may deem
it politic either to confirm their claims to a certain extent, or in
some other way to effect a compromise with them. Their unlimited confirmation would, in the opinion of your commissioner,
seriously injure many individuals, some of whom probably resided
on the lands before they were surveyed for the patentees." 3 State
Papers, Pub. Lands, 66.
The reasons for adjudging the claims of the first class to be valid,
are, that they "comprehend patents derived from the IBritish and
Spanish governments, at a time wheli they possessed'and exercised.
the undisputed sovereignty of the soil; and they ought, in the opinion of the undersigned commissioner, to be confirmed by the United
States." 3 State Papers, Pub. Lands, 66.
That he alluded to the sovereignty de facto, is evident; for the list
of cases under this class is that in which there appear eighty-six
cases of grants, made by Spain after the date of the Louisiana treaty;
on twenty-seven of which no settlements were made till after -the
20th D'ecember, 1803. This is the more apparent in the reasons for
confirming the claims of the second class, under incomplete titles.
"Those made by Miro, &c. were originated by the Spanish authorities, prior to the purchase of Louisiana by the United States;
and agreeably to the laws, usages, and customs of the then existing
government, would have been completed by the same power that
made them." 3 State Papers, Pub. Lands, 66.
In relation to the claims issued by Morales, subsequently to the
aforesaid "purchase," &c. he observes that "although in his estimation they do not occupy the same' grade with those of the first class,

382

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs w. Kibbe.]

yet he conceives it just and equitable that they should be confirmed.
This opinion is not predicated upon the validity of their orders of
survey, but simply upon the fact that they occupied and cultivated
4heir lands, and complied with all the requisitions of the government,
which at that time exercised ownership over the soil. By reference
to the register, it will be seen that some of the last mentioned claims
exceed in quantity the ordinary donations made by the .Spanish
government, prior to the purchase of Louisiana by the United States.
When this is the case, it is believed the, government of the United
States may limit its confi'mation to any extent which it may be
deemed just, both in regard to the number of arpents in each tract,
and the number of tracts claimed by the same person."
In this class of -incomplete titles there are two hundred and sixty
claims 'by orders of survey, &c. made after the treaty of 1803, on
few of which settlements were made till after 20th December, 1803.
These, reports were transmitted according to law, and laid before
Congress in 1816. 3 State Pap. 6. In April, 1818, the Senate and
House of Representatives instructed the Secretary of the Treasury
to report a plan for the final adjustment and settlement of these
claims; which he submitted in December following, accompanied
with the draught of a bill enacted 3d March, 1819, and classing the
claims as follows:
1. Claims founded on complete grants from the Spanish government, which are in the opinion of the commissioners valid, and
agreeably to the laws, usages, and customs of the said government.
The first section , declares, that "they be, and the same are hereby,
recognised as valid and complete titles, against any claim on the
part of the United States, or right derived from the United States."
And certain claims under British grants are so recognised. 3 Story,
1748.

2. Claims founded on orders of survey, permission to settle,
requette, or any written evidence of claim derived, from Spain before 2.0th December, 1803, and the land cultivated, &e.before that
day; which in the opinion of the commissioners ought to be confirmed. The second section declares that they "shall be confirmed
in the same manner as if the'title had bebn completed." 3 Story,
1748. Burchard, 316.
3. All other claims comprised in the reports of the commissioners,
and which ought, in their opinion, to be confirmed, "the claimant
shall be entitled to a donation not exceeding one thousand two hundred and eighty acres," &c.
. 4. All persons embraced in the reports who have no written evidence of claim, and had settled the land claimed before the 15th
April, 1813, "shall be entitled to the same as a donation," not exceeding six hundred and forty acres.
5. Every person in the list of actual settlers, who has no written
evidence of title, and on the 12th April, 1814, had inhabited or cultivated a tract of land, "shall be entitled to a preference on becoming a purchaser."

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

383

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]
Time for Ailing claims is extended, and provision s Axade for a
revision of claims which had not been recommended for confirmation. Under the provisions of the act of 1819, the commissioners
reported numerous other claims for. confirmation, comprising All
classes; (vide 3 State Papers, Pub. Lands, 436, 442,447-1 51 ) including lots in the town of Mobile; which reports were acted on
by Congress by the act of 8th May, 1822, as to the lots in Mobile,
3 Story, 1860; and as to lands, by an act of the same date, 3 Story,
1867.
In both these acts the claims are classed as in the act of 1819;
complete grants are recognised as valid, &c. ; incompldte grants are
confirmed, &c.;. and donations made to settlers, &c. as was done by
that act: and the last recognises the laws, usages, and customs of
Spain, as the test of a grant being complete to vest the title.
Both the acts of 1819 and 1822 being founded on the reports of
the commissioners in 1816 and 1820, must be taken with reference
thereto; and recognising the claims therein reported as-valid, to be
complete titles, by their intrinsic effect. In the report of 1816, the
commissioner says, those claims of the first class, "being founded on
complete grants of former governments, we think are good in themselves on general principles, and therefore require no confirmation by
the government of the United States to give them validity," (3 State
Papers, 267;) and in that of 1820, that "they are certainly entitled
to unqualified confirmation, (3 State Papers, 441 ;) and in relation
to surveys on incomplete grants, the same rule is adopted in relation
to those laws, customs, and usages.,
Section fourth directs the register and receiver, &c. except in relation to perfect titles, as recognised in the first section of the acts of
1819 and 1822, shall have power to direct the manner in which all
lands claimed thereby shall be surveyed and located; having regard
to the laws, usages, and customs of the Spanish government on that
subject, and also to the mode adopted by the United Siates. 3 Story,
1868. Burchard, 352. 4 Story, 2168.
Subsequent laws extended the time for filing claims, and various
reports continued to be made and laid before Congress: these laws
were more liberal in their provisions than former ones, in accordance with the general policy of Congress, and more especially-on
account of a strong remonstrance by the legislature of Louisiana on
the subject. Vide 3 State Papers, 430. 432. Vide also 3 Story, 1907,
1909. 1968. 2009. 2017. ,)Burchard, 312. 394. 404.
By the act of 1832, provision was made for the adjustment of all
claims filed by 1st July, 1833 ; the sales of land in the disputed territory were suspended for one year; and where claims were unconfirmed, but were embraced within the provisions of previous laws,
and the land had been sold by the United States, the owners were
entitled to receive the purchase money fdr which the land wis sold
at public sale. 4 Story, 2303.
Pursuant to this act, reports were made and confirmed by the act
of 1835, (4 Story, 2419;) and decisions in favour of land claimants

3B4

SUPREME COURT.

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]
pursuant to the act of 1835, were confirmed by the act of 1836.
4 Story, 2514.
From this review of the course of the executive branch of the
government in 1810, and the decisive opinion expressed in 1832, as
to the title to land in the disputed territory being valid in the view
of the United States and Spain, during the negotiations which preceded the treaty of 1810 and from the whole legislation of Congress from 1803 till 1836, there can remain no ground for mistaking
their mutual understanding of the effect of the treaty of 1803, in its
obligation on the United States to protect the private property of
individuals in the disputed territory. In this respect the treaty of
1819 was not taken into consideration; for the United States were
bound by every guarantee which a government could give to the
people, as strongly as any new treaty would bind them; but a new
treaty was necessary, to disencumber the disputed territory from the
pledges under which the United States took and held possession from
1810.
To this state of the disputed territory, as developed in the preceding review in relation to its government, and the rights of private
property during an adversary claim by Spain and the United States,
and pending negotiations for seventeen years, the final treaty must
be referred, in order to ascertain its bearing on this case.
The subjects of controversy were, the east and west boundary of
Louisiana, according to the cession by Spain to France in 1800, and
by France to the United States in 1803. The objects of the treaty
were, 1. To define the west boundary; 2. To procure a cession of
East Florilla to the United States; 3. To settle the controversy as
to the east boundary by a general cession and relinquishment of
all the claims and pretensions of Spain east of the Mississippi; and
4. To stipulate the terms and conditions on which all past controversies should be terminated, and the cession made.
The title of the treaty shows its nature.: " A Treaty of Amity,
Settlement, and Limits ;" its declared objects, and'the intention of
the parties are, "the adjustment of all differences," " to finally settle,
determine, and adjust all differences and pretensions by a treaty,"
'the restoration and permanent establishment of mutual and sincere
friendship, to consolidate, confirm, and forever maintain, the good
correspondence which happily prevails, and with the most earnest
desire of conciliation, and with the object of putting an end to all
the differences which have existed between them." Vide the preamble to the treaty and the seventh article.
Art. 1. "There shall be a firm and inviolable peace and sincere
friendship between the United States and their citizens, and his
Catholic Majesty, his succcsors, and subjects, without exception of
persons or places."
Art. 2. His Catholic Majesty cedes to the United States, "all the
territories which belong to him east of the Mississippi, known by
the name of East and West Florida," &c.; "and all vacant lands
which are not private property."

JANUARY TERM, 840.

385

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

Art. 3. The first clause fixes the west boundary of Louisiana at
the Sabine, &c. By the second clause, his Catholic Majesty "cedes
to the United States all his rights, claims, and pretensions to any
territory east of said line ;" and forever renounced them.
Art. 8. Stipulates for the confirmation and ratification of " a ll the
grants of land made before the 24th January, 1818, by his Catholic
Majesty or his lawful authorities, in the said territories, ceded by
his Catholic Majesty to the United States," &c.
It is not necessary to take any further notice of the other parts of
this treaty, or give any detail of its provisions; it suffices for all the
purposes of this case, to consider it as having effected all its
declared objects, according to the declared intention of the parties,
witl~out exception of persons or. places. So both governments
have ever considered it; and the once disputed territory has been
peaceably held by the United States, according to the terms of its
stipulations, and not by the mere force of the Louisiana treaty, or
" the acts of sovereign power," exercised by the United States previous to the ratification. The political departments of the government have uniformly recognised its application to the disputed territory, as a cession and renunciation by Spain of all her claims and
pretensions, and thereby putting a final end to all existing differences and disputes concerning boundary, under the treaties of 1800
and 1803. This Court has also so considered it, by declaring in
1827, that "the United States, have since obtained the Floridas by
purchase and cession from Spain," (2 Wheat. 600;) and in the
first sentence of their opinion in Garcia vs. Lee, repeating this declaration in language which cannot be misapprehended or misapplied, and is in these words: "The land is situated in the state of
Louisiana, and in the territory lying north of the Iberville, and between the Perdido and the Mississippi, which was so long a subject
of controversy between the United States and Spain; and which was
finally settled by the cession of the Floridas to the United States,
by the treaty of February 22d, 1819."

12 Peters, 615.

On this point, then, there is a perfect union of opinion by all the
departments of the government, that this treaty applied to the disputed territory; that it finally settled all former controversies concerning it, and that it was done by a cession by Spain, and a purchase by the United States.
These propositions are perfectly consistent with the assertion by
the United States, of their original right to this territory under, the
former treaties; they have bought their peace; Spain has ceded her
claims and pretensions: though neither party has acknowledged the
original right of the other, (2 Peters, 310,) yet both agree that, for
the future, it belongs to the United States, in full sovereignty
and propriety, as it was ckimed by Spain. If, indeed, any doubt
could be raised on the terms of the treaty, the interest of the
United States requires that they should be construed so as to effect
the objects declared; for if the cession and purchase do not include
the disputed territory, the United States still hold it subject to future
49
VOL. XIV.-2 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibt .]

negotiation, acoording to the declaration of the President in 1810,
and Congress in 1811. It has not and cannot be asserted, with truth,
that there is yet subsisting, a controversy between Spain and the
United Staies on this subject; nor can there be a suggestion of any
act of cession, relinquishment by Spain, or any recognition of the
right of the United States, unless it is found in the treaty of 1819;
or any release of the pledge under which possession was taken by
force, unless by the operation of its stipulations upon the territory
thus seized; and further, if the confirmation of grants by the eighth
article, does not extend to those made for lands west of the Perdido,
the clause which annuls those made after 1818, and the grant to
Vargas, is equally inapplicable to defeat them; and if there is any
part of :East or West Florida to which the treaty does not apply,
o: any exception of persons or places within either is made by any
construction of any part of the treaty; it is an express contradiction
of the first article, which negatives all exceptions. The treaty must
then be taken as the Court have declared it; or all its stipulations
must be confined to East florida, and that part of West Florida
which lies east of the Pe.dido, leaving all controversies before subsisting in fall force, as to territory west' of that river.
The nature and character of this treaty forbid an interpretation
which would make it a violation of the honour and faith of the
United-States, so often pledged; and jeopard their interest by considering the disputed territory to yet be in their hands, subject to
future negotiation: a conclusion from which there is no escape, if
the negotiation which ended by the ratification of the treaty in
1821, did not settle all controversies. By referring to the terms of
the ratification, there can be no doubt of the declared meaning of
the King of Spain, and the treaty making power of the United
States; as well as to what was ceded to the United States, as the
effect and force of the treaty when ratified, and the ratifications exchanged. In the act of the king, it is important to observe, that he
declares the cession to be made by the second and third articles;
the bearing of which on the eighth article will be seen to have a
most conclusive effect, when the case of Foster and Elam vs. Neilson
comes under review. The king says:
"Whereas, on the 22d February, 1819, a treaty was concluded,"
&c., "consisting of sixteen articles, which had for their object the
arrangement of differences and of limits between both governments,
and their respective territories, which are of the following forr and
literal tenor." Here follows the treaty. "Therefore, having seen
and examined the sixteen articles aforesaid, and having first obtained the consent and authority of the general Corte3 of the nation,
with respect to the cession mentioned and stipulated in the second
and third articles, I approve and ratify all and every one of the articles referred to, and the clauses which are contained in them," &c.,
"promising on the faith and word of a king, to execute and observe

them, and to cause them to be executed and observed, entirely,
as if I myself had signed them," &c. &c.

JANUARY TERM,. 1840.

387

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

In pursuance of the advice and consent of the Senate, the President declared:
" I," &c., "having seen and considered the treaty above recited,
together with the ratification of his Catholic Majesty thereof, do,"
&c., "by these presents, accept, ratify, and confirm the said treaty,
arid every clause and article thereof, as the same are herein set
forth;" and after the exchange of ratifications, declared: -"Now,
therefore, to the end that the said treaty may be observed and performed with good faith on the part of the United States," &c., " I
do hereby enjoin arid require all persons bearing office," &c, "and
all others within the United States, faithfully to observe- and fulfil
the said treaty, and every clause and article thereof." 6 Laws U.
States, 628. 631.

I cannot deem it necessary to reason on language like this, used
in an act so solemn, by which two nations closed an invecerate controversy which-had subsisted for seventeen years, on'terms satisfactory to both; in order to show What they intended as a mutual
object, or whether they effected what they intended. An inspection of the treaty from its title to the ratification, affords more conclusive evidence of its intention and effect than human ingenuity or
reasoning'can elicit by a commentary, or any effort to illustrate its
provisions. It is what it purports, an amicable settlement of all
past differences, without exception of persons or places, by a cession by one party of its rights to sovereignty, and the vacant land
in the whole territory east of the Sabine river, which is not private
property; what is private property'is excepted from the cession by
the terms of the second and third articles; and one of the conditiqns of the cession is, the confirmhtion aid ratification of all grants
made before e certain time for lands in the ceded territories, excepting
three. Compensation is made for mutual claims; all past complaints
are redressed, and the United States hold the disputed territory,
freed from all past pledges by the cbnsent of Spain; aimA the stipulated confirmation of grants mhde by the king or his lawful uthorities, saves his honour and faith pledged to the grantees. Peculiar force is to be given to this stipulation in the eighth article, when
it is considered that two full years elapsed between the signature
and final ratification of the treaty; and that the sole cause of the
delay arose from those, grants, one of which was for land west of
the Perdido. 2 Peters, 312. Those having been annulled by the
king, were excepted from confirmation, leaving all other fair grants
within the stipulations of the eighth article, according to the declared intention of both negotiators of' the treaty, of the parties
thereto, and its true construction. Another decisive consideration
of the effect of this treaty is presented by taking it in connexion
with the treaty of 1803, and the various acts of the political departments of this government before referred to; it applied to a territor r
which formed' part of the states of this Union, and to its inhabitants, and other proprietors of land, who hold their property by
the most sacred guarantee, and were already in the full fruition of

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

all the rights of citizens of the United States, and the states to which
the territory Lad been annexed.
It must be remembered, that as the United States claimed the territory west of the Perdido, in virtue of the treaty of 1803, they must
hold it subject to its obligations and the terms of the cession; and that
by first governing it as a portion of the territory of the United States,
and afterwards annexing it to the adjacent states, the rights of property were protected by the ordinance of 1787, the constitution of the
states, and of the United States. No new guarantee was given to
the grantees of Spain in the disputed territory, by the treaiy of 1819 ;
but it was a renewal of all former pledges of the United States by
the treaty of 1803, their acts, and the constitution, to neither of
which Spain was a party; but as Spain would neither cede nor
abandon her claim without a renewed pledge of rlation to nation,
in the most solemn of all international acts, the pledge was renewed
both to the king, his subjects, and grantees; which was additional to
all the previous promises and obligations of the United States to
protect property, fairly and lawfully acquired, and maintain its free
enjoyment.
There is another view in which the treaty of 1819 must be considered, in order to give it its constitutional and intended effect, by
operating directly on all the subjects to which it relates, where no
future act is stipulated to be done by either party, or the thing
stipulated is in its nature to be performed in future, as the incorporation of the territory and its inhabitants into the Union,
which is necessarily a prospective act. But the cession by the
king, and the confirmation of grants, must be taken to be acts
done and perfected by force of the treaty itself, and by the terms
of the ratification by both parties; for it is difficult to conceive
how every article and clause of the treaty can be ratified and confirmed, "by these presents," or how it can be observed and performed by civil officers and others, if any future act of legislation is
necessary to give it validity or effect, by the king as to the cession, or
by the United States as to the clause of confirmation. If the question
was new, it would seem to be settled by the Constitution; for if a
treaty made under its authority, is a supreme law of the land, it
would be a bold proposition, that an act of Congress must be first
passed in order to give it effect as such; and equally bold to assert,
as the American view of the faith of treaties by the law of nations,
that its stipulations may be performed or not, at the discretion of
Congress. If on the principles of the law of nations, or national
faith, one treaty should be held more sacred tharh another, that of
1819 stands in bold relief as a settlement of past controversies, on
mutual considerations and stipulations, so dependent on each other,
that the non-performance by either party of any part, would necessarily defeat the whole object and effect. of the treaty, and renew
old disputes. Thus, if the disputed territ6ry and its inhabitants and
proprietors, 1rare excepted places" and "persons;" then there has
been no cession to the United States by the king, and no confirma-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

389

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

tion of his grants stipulated for by the treaty; both nations stand
towards each other on their original right, and the rights of individuals to property remain as if no treaty had been made, and negotiation still continued; whereas, if the territory west of the Perdido,
is ceded by the treaty, every clause has full effect. There is a most
marked distinction between the two treaties in one respect: by that
of 1803, there was an out and out purchase of' territory, to which
the United States had no claim or pretension; both parties dealt at
arms' length; there was nothing to compromise,no previous differences
to settle; the subject of the cession was a province owned by France,
in the plenitude of sovereignty, in propriety and dominion, in her
actual possession as a governtnent de facto and de jure, which she
ceded to the United States for a specified money consideration.
2 Peters, 303.
Another distinction is equally marked and prominent. In the
Louisiana treaty, there is no stipulation by the United States, for the
confirmation of grants of any description, previously made by France
or Spain; or any other security promised for private property, than
the terms of the cession by the second article imply, by ceding
"vacant lands," &c., "which are not private property;" and the stipulation in the third article, to incorporate the inhabitants in the
Union as soon as possible, &c., and admitted to the enjoyment of
the rights of citizens of the United States; and in the mean time,
be protected and maintained in the free enjoyment of their property. 1 Laws of the United'States, 136. The reason of this distinction is obvious.
Though the treaty of 1803 made no provision for a change
of government, it was in the first instance to be temporary and territorial, under the sole power of Congress, in virtue of the third
section, fourth article of the Constitution; and afterwards a state
government, subject only to the same powers which Congress could
exercise in the old states. 1 Peters, 542. 9 Peters, 234. 236.
No change of government was contemplated, or could be made
by the treaty of 1819, except as to the territory east of the state of
Alabama; as all westward to the Mississippi then formed a part of
three states,, and the incorporation thereof and the inhabitants into
the Union was completely effected (in virtue of the treaty of 1803)
two years before the ratification of the Florida treaty. Vide 2 Peters,
308, 309. 311, 312.

Hence arose the difference between the corres-

ponding articles of the two treaties; that of 1819, in the sixth article, stipulating pnly for the incorporation of the inhabitants, &c. and
their admission to the rights, &c. of citizens of the United States;
omitting any stipulation as to property, save by the eighth article,
which was co6xtensive with the whole ceded territory east of the
Mississippi, and superseded the necessity of any further stipulation
to protect property; and the Constitution placed the government of
the territory east of the Perdido in Congress, under the general
powers conferred by the third section of the fourth article.
From the course of the political departments of the government.
2 K2

390

SUPREME COURT.
(Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

I now proceed to that of the judicial department, on this and kindred
subjects.
1. As to the treaty of 1803, its construction, and effect on private
property in Louisiana.
2. The decisions of this Court on claims to land east of the Perdido, under the treaty of 18,19.
3. Decisions on claims to land in disputed territory, under that
and previous treaties.
4. The decisions on articles of capitulation, and treaties between
the United States and foreign powers.
5. The decisions on compacts of boundary between state and
state, and states with the United States.
6. How far questions of titles to land in a disputed territory are
judicial.
On this, as on the former branch of the subject, my object is to
show, 1. A perfect coincidence of opinion between all the departments of the government, on the subject of Spanish titles under the
two treaties: 2. That if my opinion is at variance with that of this
Court in 12 Peters, 515, &c. it arises from my entire concurrence
with their declaration in that case, that the treaty of 1819 finally
settled the long subsisting controversy between the United States
and Spain, about the territory between the Perdido and the Mississippi: S.That every principle of the case of Foster and Elam vs.
Neilson, in 2 Peters, 299. 317, adverse to grants in the disputed territory, has been since overruled: 4. That the principles of that case,
which stand affirmed in all subsequent cases, give full validity to
such grants: 5. That the case of Poole vs. Fleeger has no bearing on
the treaty of 1819: and 6. That any decision of this Court adverse
to such grant, founded solely on the supposed authority of those two
cases, and at variance with a uniform course of adjudication, before
and after'; may be deemed worthy of reconsideration.
1. In Soulard vs. The United States, this Court declared, that the
United States, as a just nation, regarded the stipulation of the third
article of the Louisiana treaty, for the protection of the property of
the inhabitants, "as the avowal of a principle which would have
been held equally sacred though it had not been inserted in the contract." 4 Peters, 515, S.P. 10 Peters, 330.
"That the term'property,' as applied to lands, comprehends every
species of title, inchoate or complete;" those rights which lie in contract, executory or executed. "In this respect, the relation of the
inhabitants to their government is not changed. The new government takes the place of that which has passed away." 4 Peters, 512.
"This is the sentiment by which the government of the United
States is animated, and which it has infused into its legi: lation."
4 Peters, 512.
In alluding to this stipulation, the Court say, in Delassus vs. The
United States,." that the perfect inviolability of property
among
these rights, all will assert and maintain."
"The right of property then is protected and secure by this

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

391

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

treaty; and no principle is better settled in this country, than that
an inchoate title to lands is property." 9 Peters, 133.
" Independent of treaty stipulation, this right would be held
sacred."
"The language of the treaty excludes every idea of interfering
with private property; of transferring lands which had been severed
from the royal domain. The people change their sovereign. Their
right to property remains unaffected by the change." 9 Peters, 133.
In the City of New Orleans vs. De Armas it was held, that a patent
from the United States, pursuant to an act of Congress, could not
"operate to destroy any previous existing title, vested under the
pre-existing government, as a principle applicable to every grant,
that it cannot affect pre-existing titles."
9 Peters, 236.
In the United States vs. Smith, it is laid down as a settled principle by the Court, that if the king had by his own, or the acts of his
lawful authorities, become a trustee for the claimant of lands, it
amounted to the severance thereof from the royal domains, (10 Peters, 331 ;) and that the United States have put themselves in the
place of Spain. 10 Peters, 335.
In New Orleans vs. The United States, the effect of the Louisiana
treaty was most fully and ably considered by the Court, in a unanimous opinion. The property in controversy was the quay in front
of the city, which was claimed by the city by a dedication thereof
to its use by France and by Spain. The United States claimed it as
part of the royal domain, an4,as such ceded to them by the treaty;
on which the Court thus speak: " If the common in contest, 'under
the Spanish crown formed a part of the public domain, or the crown
lands, and the king had power to alien it as other lands, there can
be no doubt that it passed under the treaty to the United States, and
they have a right to dispose of it the same as other public lands.
But if the King of Spain held the. land in trust for the use of the
city, or only possessed a limited jurisdiction over. it, principally, if
not exclusively .for police purposes, was the right passed to the
10 Peters, 736.
United States under the treaty?"
This question is answered in the decision of the Court, " that, in
their opinion, neither the fee of the land in controversy, nor the
right to regulate its use, is vested in the United States." 10 Peters,
737.
2. As this opinion can neither require or ieceive any weight by

any remarks of mine, I now proceed to notice the adjudications of
this Court in cases arising under the Florida treaty, in relation to the
territory east of the Perdido, including East Florida.
The first was the American Insurance Company vs. Canter, in
which the opinion of the Court is too important to be referred to
otherwise than in their words " The course which the argument
has taken will~require that in deciding this question the Court should
take into view the relation in which Florida stands to the United
States."
1 Peters, 542.

"The Constitution confers absolutely on the government of the

392

SUPREME, COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs v8. Kibbe.]

Union the powers of making war and of making treaties; consequently that government possesses the power of acquiring territory,
either by conquest or by treaty.
"The usage of the world is, if a nation be not entirely subdued, to
consider the holding of conquered territory as a mere military occupation, until its fate shall be determined at the treaty of peace. If it
be ceded by the treaty, the acquisition is confirmed, and the ceded
territory becomes a part of the nation to which it is annexed; either
on the terms stipulated in the treaty of cession, or on such as its new
master shall impose. On such transfer of territory, it has never been
held that the relations of the inhabitants with each other undergo
any change. Their relations with their former sovereign are dissolved, and new relations are created between them and the government which has acquired their territory. The same act which trans.
fers their country transfers the allegiance of those who remain in it;
and the law, which may be denominated political, is necessarily
changed; although that which regulates the intercourse and general
conduct of individuals, remains in force until altered by the newly
created power of the state.
"On the 2d February, 1819, Spain ceded Florida to the United
States. The sixth article of the treaty of cession contains the following provision: "The inhabitants of the territories which his Cacholic
Majesty cedes to the United States by this treaty ' shall be' incorporated in the Union of the United States, as soon as may be consistent with the principles of the federal Constitution; and admitted to
the enjoyment of the privileges, rights, and immunities of the citiof the United States."(
zens
'f This treaty is the law of the land, and admits
the inhabitants of
Florida-to the enjoyment of the privileges, rights, and immunities
-of the citizens of the United States. It is Unnecessary to inquire
whether this is not their condition independent of stipulation. They
do not however participate in political power-they do not share in
the government, till Florida shall become a state. In the mean
time, Florida continues to be a territory of the United States; governed by virtue of that clause of the Constitution which empowers
.Congress to make all needful regulations respecting the territory or
other property belonging to the United States."
" It has been already stated, that all the laws which were in force
in Florida while a province of Spain, those excepted which were
political in their character, which concerned the relations betweet
the people and their sovereign, remained in force until aliered by
the government of the United States. Congress recognises this principle, by using the words ' laws of the territory now in force therein.'
No laws could then be in force but those enacted by the Spanish
government." Ibid. 544.
These principles apply to all parts of Florida, as ceded by Spain,
under either treaty, and to the disputed territory, as well as other
parts of either cession; the local laws in force at the time the treaties respectively took effect, were the rules of property and right

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

393

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.)

under both; and if the treaty of 1819 was the law of the land in
1828, and under the sixth article, the effect of the stipulations was to
admit the inhabitants to the enjoyment Qf the rights, &c., which
were promised, by its own force, operating in presenti upon the subject; , n enuity will be pushed to its utmost stretch to give a different eifec . to the'eighth article. 'As the words of the Court admit
of noeX"eption' or qualification, that article must operate in like
manner to ratify and confirm all the grants to which it relates, inall
parts of the ceded territories, whether within the states to which it
been -qnnexed, or that which was east of the Perdido.
had
I The
principles of this opinion also apply with full force to the
law of nations, as -it bears on the relations between the United
States', and the people and proprietors of the disputed territory, consequent u ipnthe treaty of 1803, the military occupation in virtue
of the right of tire'United States, by that cession, from 1810 to 1821
as a conquest by'the right of war, or as a new acquisition by the
cession of Spain ,in 1821, subject to the stipulation it. contained.
Take itinany -i Vy,, the law of nations protected all rights of property, froi~ whatever power those rights arose; and it is not a little
remarkable, that every principle of this case was overlooked at the
next termCand thi8 treaty declared not to be the law of the land.
Next came the case of Foster and Elam vs. Neilson, in 1829,
wherein the majority of the Court, against the opinion of the Chief
-, held, that, in relation to the grants referred
Justice and Justice
to in the eighth article of the treaty, it was only a contract on the part of
the United States, to ratify and confirm them by an act of Congress,
which was necessary to execute that part of the treaty ; the opinion
of the Court taking no notice of the law or usage of nations, or of
any former decisions. But the Court were unanimous in their opinion, that if the eighth article had declared that all grants, &c., shall
be valid to the same extent as if the ceded territories had remained
under the dominion of the king, or "that these grants are hereby
Ponfirmed, the treaty would have acted directly on the subject, and
would have repealed those acts' of Congress which were repugnant
to it." 2 Peters, 314. That if the second article had omitted the
words, "which belong to him," the " United States, by accepting
the cession, might have sanctioned the right to make the cession,
and have been bound to consider the eighth article as coextensive
with the. second. The stipulation of the eighth article might have
.been construed to be an admission that West Florida, to its full extent, was ceded by this treaty." Ibid. 311. "That if the ratification
by the king was an exception to the stipulation of the eighth article
for confirming grants, the excepted grants would have been withdrawn from the eighth article, by the exception, and would otherwise
have been within its provisions.'? " Consequently, that all other fair
grants, within the time specified, were as obligatory on the United
States as on his Catholic Majesty." Ibid. 313.
It is evident, therefore, that so far as this case depended on the
construction of the treaty, it turned on three positions: 1. Whether the
50

394

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

second article ceded the whole territory of West Florida. 2. Whether
the words of the eighth article operated directly on the grants, so
as to confirm them bylits own force. 3: Whether the ratification
by the king operated as an exception to. the eighth article, by excluding the three grants. Now, had the Court noticed the third
article, in connection with the second, as was done by the king in
his ratification, all difficulty respecting the words, "which belong
to him," would have been removed; for the king declares that the
cession was by both articles. 6 Laws U. S.628.
By the first clause of the third article," the boundary line between
the two countries west of the Mississippi," is the Sabine, to the 320
north latitude, thence north toRed river, &c. By the second clause,
the parties agree to cede and renounce all their rights, &c., to the
territory described by that line; the United States to all west and
south of it; and, "in like manner, his Catholic Majesty cedes to the
United States, all his rights, claims, and pretensions, to any territories east and north of said line, and for himself, his heirs, and successors, renounces all claim to the said territories forever." 6 Laws
U.S. 616.
The words of this clause are broad enough to embrace tb whole
territory east of the Mississippi; the words "claims" and "pretensions," are peculiarly appropriate to that part which lies west of the
Perdido and, whcn taken in connection with the second article,
divest it of all the doubts, by the use of the words "which belong
to him." So that their combined effect is a cession by one party,
and an acceptance by the other, of all the rights, claims, and pretensions of Spain, to all the territory east of the Sabine, including what
was known as East and West Florida, and to which the stipulation of the eighth article would apply, by the opinion of the Court.
The second point was decided in the United States vs. Arredondo,
in 1832, in which the Court held, "That the United States never
seem to have claimed any part of what could be shown by legal
evidence and local law, to have been severed from the royal domain
before their right attached," (6 Peters, 717;) whether the severance
was by "patent, grant, concession, warrant, order of survey, or any
other act which might have been perfected into a complete title, by
the laws, usages, and customs of Spain." Ibid. 721..
"If a question arises what lands were ceded, (to the United
States,) the answer is found in the, second article, vacant lands; not
those which had been individually appropriated, and were not the
subjects of a hostile and adversary grant. The renunciation by
the third article, by both parties, was only of their respective rights,
claims, and preten3ions to the territory renounced; neither government had any right to renounce over lands, to which a title had
been conveyed to their citizens or subjects respectively. Thu; deciding on those articles of the treaty, and in conformity to the rules
and principles before established, we should be of opinion, that the
land embraced in the grant was, no longer a part of the royal domain at the date of the treaty, but private property, land not vacant,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

395

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

but appropriated by a prior and valid deed." Ibid. 735, 736. "The
eighth article was evidently intefded for the benefit of those who
held grants, and were considered as proprietors of land in Florida;
and to give it a construction which would remove and limit rights
thus intended to be secured, would deprive them of the benefit of the
fair construction of the second and third articles of the treaty, and
leave them in a worse situation than if the eighth had been omitted
altogether." "The honour of the king was concerned most depply,
in not doing an act which would deprive his subjects of what he
had granted to them," &c., "and to not leave the confirmation of
grants by lawful authority, at the pleasure of the United States."
Before the execution of the treaty, there was inserted a stipulation
in "Spanish, by which the ceded territory should pass into the
hands of the United States, with the declared instruction by the
King of Spain, that the grants referred to operated in presenti, as
an exception and reservation of lands granted in his name, and by
his authority, using words which expressed his intention in his own
language; that the grants were ratified and confirmed in the very
act of cession, subject to no future contingency." Ibid, 737.
Such was declared to be its effect, according to the stipulations of
the treaty, the law of nations, the acts of Congress, and the laws of
Spain. "If the title was confirmed presently, the king had within
the bounds of the grant, no right or title to convey, and the United
States, could receive none. If no future act of theirs was necessary for their confirmation and ratification, the legal title, much less
the beneficial interest never passed to them, (the United States.)
Ibid. 738. On a deliberate construction of that article, the words,
"4shall be ratified and confirmed," were held to mean, "shall remain ratified and confirmed ; and that the United States, in accepting the cession, could assert no claim to lands thus expressly excepted ;" and the Court declared explicitly, that the grants included
in the eighth article, and those referred to in the ratification by the
king, "were confirmed and annulled respectively, simultaneously
with the ratification and confirmation of the treaty, and that when
the territory was ceded, the United States had no right in any of
the lands embraced in the confirmed grants." Ibid. 741, 742.
The same principles were adopted in the United States vs. Percheman, and in language most emphatic and unequivocal, throughout the opinion delivered by the Chief Justice. After reciting the
first clause of the second article, which ceded the territory in general
terms, the Court observe: "A cession of territory is never understood to be a cession of the property of the inhabitants." 7 Peters,
87. "The king cedes that only ' which belonged to him ;' lands he
had previously granted were not his to cede. Neither pariy could"
so understand the cession; neither party could consider itself as
attempting a wrong to individuals, condemned by the practice of
the whole civilized world." The second clause of the second articL, is thus referred to: "The special enumeration could not have
been made, had the first clause of the article been supposed to pass

39-6

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

the objects thus enumerated, but private property also." 7 Peters,
87. The grant of buildings could not have been limited by the
words, "which are not private property," had private property
been included in the cession of the territory.
"This state of things ought to be kept in view, when we construe
the eighth article of the treaty, and the acts of Congress relating to
Spanish titles. This (the eighth) article is apparently introduced
on the part of Spain, and must be intended to stipulate expressly,
for that security to private property, which the laws and usages of
nations would, without express stipulation, have conferred. No
construction which would impair that security for them, that its
positive words require, would seem to be admissible. Without it
the titles of individuals would be as valid under the new governnient, as under the old," &c.
The Court then declare, that this article means, that the grants
"shall remain ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession
of them, to the same extent, &c., (that the same grants would be
valid if the territories had remained under the dominion of his Catholic Majesty,) thus conforming exactly to the universally received
doctrine of the law of nations. If, as we.think must be admitted,
the security of private property was intended by the parties; if this
security would have been complete without the article, the United
States could have no motive for insisting on the interposition of
government, in order to give validity to titles, which, according to
Ibid. 88, 89.
the usages of the civilized world were already valid."
The grants are then declared to be ratified and confirmed by the
force of the treaty itself; as the proper if not unavoidable construction of its words; and the Court also declares that this construction
would-have been given in Foster vs. Elam, if the Spanish part of
the treaty had been brought to their view; and that "this understanding of the article snust enter into our construction of the acts
Ibid. 89.
of Congress on the subject."
These cases finally settled the construction of the second, third,
and eighth articles of the treaty of 1819; they overruled the construction given in Foster and Elam vs. Neilson, and have remained
unquestioned till this time. 12 Peters, 519; and "on the fulles.,
consideration (it has been) held, that the treaty operated as a present, perfect, and absolute confirmation of all the grants which
come within its provisions. That no act of the political department remained to be done; that it was an executed treaty, the law
of the land, and a rule'for the Court; a rule of title and property,"
&c. 12 Peters, 747.
In the United States vs. Kingsley, decided in 1838, the Court took
broader ground in favour of Spanish titles, than had been assumed
in any former case in relation to the construction of the treaty, and
expressed their opinion in language of peculiar force, and with a
more appropriate reference to its spirit, meaning, and words, than
" Under the treaty it is true
is to be found in any other opinio.
that gtants.of land made before the 24th January, 1818, by his Ca-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

397

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

tholic Majesty, or by his' lawful authority, stand ratified and confirmed, to the same extent that the same grants would be valid if
Florida had remained under the dominion of Spain," &c., &c.
"It is admitted, that in the construction of this article of the
treaty, (the eighth) the United States succeeds to all those equitable
obligations, which we are to suppose would have influenced his
Catholic Majesty to secure to his subjects their property, and which
would have been applied by him in the construction of a conditioral
grant to make it aBsolute. And further, in the construction of this
article of the treaty, it must be conceded, that the United States
must maintain the rights of property under it, by applying the laws
and customs by which those rights were secured, before Florida
was ceded, or by which an inchoate right of property would, by
laws and customs, have been adjudicated by Spanish authority to
have become a perfect right, by applying in the first instance in such
cases, as was said in Arredondo's case, the principles pf justice, according to the rules of equity; and in the second, all thise laws
and customs decisive of a right of property, while the party claiming the right was a subject of Spain." 12 Peters, 484, 485.
This final result of the adjudications of this Court settles all doubts
as to the extent and effect of the cession and the construction of the
treaty, which were expressed by the Court in Foster and Elam vs.
Neilson, and" is decisive of the two first points. Their opinion in the
case of the United States vs. Clarke, in 1834, is equally decisive of
the question whether the ratification by the king, in annulling the
three grants to Alagon, Punon Rostro, and De Vargas, is an exception or proviso to the eighth article; on which subject this is the
language of the Court, in 8 Peters, 463: " While Florida remained
a province of Spain, the right of his Catholic Majesty, acting in person or by his officers, to distribute lands according to his pleasure,
was unquestioned. That he was in the constant exercise of this
power was well known. If the United States were not content to
receive the territory, charged with titles thus created, they ought to
have made, and they would have made, such exceptions as they
deemed necessary. They have made these exceptions. They have
stipulated that all grants made since the 24th of January, 1818, shall
be null and void. It is understood that this stipulation was intended
to embrace three large grants made by the king, which comprehended nearly all the crown lands in East Florida. Howeverthis
may be, it shows that the subject was in the mind of the negotiator; and the apprehended mischief was guarded against, so far as
the parties could agree. The American government was content
with the security which this stipulation afforded, and cannot now
demand further and additional grounds. The acquisition of the
Floridas was an object of immense importance to the United States.
It was urged by other considerations of a still more powerful operation, in addition to vacant lands. It will be regarded, while our
Union lasts, as the highest praise of the administration which made
it, and of the negotiator who accomplished it. It cannot be doubted
VOL. XIV.-2 L

398

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

that the terms were highly advantageous, and that they were so
considered by all. The United States were satisfied, and had' reason to be satisfied, with the provision excluding grants made subsequent to the 24th January, 1818, when the fraud on that provision
was -prevented by the terms of the ratification of the treaty. All
other concessions made by his Catholic Majesty, or his lawful authorities, in the ceded territories, (in the ratification by the king of
Spain, "competent -authorities,") are as valid as if the cession had
not been made." S Peters, 464.
The same principle is recognised and declared in the United
States vs. Mitchell, 9 Peters, 735; and Strother vs. Lucas, 12 Peters,
439: in both of which there is a summary review of all the pfevious decisions of this Court on the subject; which are' declared, in
9 Peters, 734; "to be definitively settled, so far as the power of this
Court can do it; and must be taken to be the rules of its judgment."
I'content myself with this general reference to these summaries
of past decisions, with the exception of the settled meaning of the
words "lawful authorities," in the eighth article, and " competent
authorities," in the ratification by the king; that is, by those persons who exercised the granting power by authority of the crown.
This is the generally received meaning of the words. Tho treaty
recognises the existence of those "lawful authorities," in the ceded
territories. 8 Peters, 449. The king "might therefore stipulate for
that full credence (evidence) to the instrument itself, which is usually
allowed to instruments issued by the proper officer." In the sense in
which the words "are uniformly used and understood, they mean
persons authorized by the crown to grant lands," (8 Peters, 450.
464;) the governor or intendant, as the case may be, (9 Peters, 735,)
10 Peters, 331, S.P. 12 Peters, 438, 439.
"or their deputies."
Had these principles, thus settled, in the cases of Canter, 1 Peters,
542; in Soulard, 4 Peters, 512; Arredondo, 6 Peters, 717, &c. ;

Percheman, 7 Peters, 87, &c.; Clark, 8 Peters, 449. 463; Delassus,
9 Peters, 133; Mitchell, 9 Peters, 734; New Orleans, 9 Peters, 234,
and 10 Peters, 736 ; Strother, 12 Peters, 435-441; Kingsley, 12 Pe-

ters, 484; and Rhode Island, 12 Peters, 747, been recognised in
that case, on their
Foster and Elam; the decision of the Court ir,
declaredprinciples, must have been in favour of the plaintiff, if he
had filed and recorded his claim, according to the requisitions of the
acts of Congress. As the Court decided that case solely on their
construction of the treaty, the since established Construction, if then
adopted, would have made the treaty a rule of decision for the
Court, have confirmed the grant by its own force, and repealed the
fourteenth section of the act of 1804, and all repugnant laws; and
made all grants before January, 1818, as obligatory on the United
States as they were on Spain, excepting only the three which were
cancelled by the ratification of the kiilg. 2 Peters, 311-315.
3. I now proceed to the cases which have arisen in this Court
under the treaty of i819, in relation to grants of land within the
disputed territory, made after 1803; and under the kindred treaty

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

399

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

between Georgia and the United States, on grants made by Great
Britain and Spain, while those governments occupied the territory
in dispute between them, (Georgia and the United States.)
Harcourt vs. Gaillard arose on a grant made by the British governor of West Florida, for land north of the 310 N. lat., and within
the charter limits of Georgia; but which was then under the government, and in the possession of Great Britain. The grant was held
void, because it was made during the war of the Revolution; and the
treaty of peace contained no stipulation in favour of grants previously made, or any cession of territory to the United States; but was
an acknowledgment and recognition of their pre-existing rights. But
the Court also held, that if the grant had been made before the war,
"it might have had the benefit of those principles of public law
which are applied to territories acquired by conquest;" but the
question "is one of disputed boundaries, within which the power
which succeeds in war is not obliged to recognise as valid any acts
of ownership exercised by his adversary." 12 Wheat. 525. The
Court then refer to the eighth article of the treaty of Ghent, as an illustration of this doctrine, which is this: "It is agreed, &c. that in case
any of the islands, &c. which were in the possession of one of the
parties prior to the commencement of the present war between the
two countries, should, &c. fall within the dominions of the other
party, all'grants of land made previous to the commencement of
the war, by the party having had such possession, shall be as valid
as if such island, &c. had been adjudged to be within the dominions
of the party having had such possession," &c. 1 Laws U. S. 699.
Whereupon the Court use this language: "And such is unquestionably the law of nations. War is a suit prosecuted by the sword, and
when the question to be decided is one of original claim to territory;
grants of soil made flagrante bello by the party that fails, can only
derive validity by treaty stipulation." Laws U. S. 528.
The next case arose on a grant made by the Spanish govern,
ment of West Florida, in 1795, before the treaty of limits between
Spain and the United States, for land north of the 310 north latitude,
of which Spain was in possession at the time of the grant; the
Court decided this case on the same principles as were adopted- in
Poole vs. Fleeger, and applied to the compact between Kentucky
and Tennessee. These were the principles laid down in their opinion: " It is the usage of all the civilized nations of the world, when
territory is ceded, to stipulate for the property of its inhabitants," &c.
"Had Spain considered herself as ceding territory, she would not
have neglected a stipulation, which every sentiment of justice and
national honour would have demanded, and which the United States
would not have refused. But instead of requiring an article to that
effect, she has expressly stipulated 'for the withdrawal of the settlements made within what the treaty admits to be-the territory of the
United States, and for permission to the settlers to bring their property with them. We think this ai unequivocal acknowledgnent,
that the occupation of that territory by Spain was wrongful; and

400

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

we think the opinion thus clearly indicated, was supported by the
state of facts. It follows, that Spanish grants, made after the treaty
of peace, can have no intrinsic validity; and the holders must depend
for their titles on the laws of the United States." Henderson vs.
Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 535, 536. Vide 11 Peters, 209, 210.
The statement of this case by the Court, in a preceding part of
their opinion, gives a most lucid illustration of the principles above
referred to. After alluding to the treaties of peace between Great
Britain and the United States, France and Spain, in 1783, the Court
say, "In the treaty with Spain, the Floridas were ceded to that
power without any description of boundary." "The United States
continued to assert a claim to the 31° of north latitude, while Spain
maintained perseveringly her pretensions further north. This was
the subject of long and fruitless discussion between the two governments, which was terminated by the treaty, &c., of 27th October,
1795, &c. This treaty declares and agrees that the line which was
described in the treaty of peace between Great Britain and the
United States, as their south boundary, shall be the line which divides their territory from East and West Florida."
"This article does not import to be a cession of territory, but the
adjustment of a controversy. between the two nations. It is understood as an admission that the right was originally in the United
States," &c.

534.

This opinion is confirmed by'a subsequent part of the same article. That "the settlements of either party in the territory of the
other, according to the above mentioned boundaries, shall be withdrawn within six months after the ratification of this treaty, or
sooner, if it be possible; and that they shall be permitted to take
with them all-the goods and effects which they possess." 12 Wheat.
534, 535. 544.
This state of facts in Harcourt vs Gaillard, and 'Henderson vs.
Poindexter, shows'the grounds on which the British grant,'made
before.; the treaty of peace with Great Britain, and the Spanish
grant, made before the treaty of 1795, with Spain, for lands within
the disputed territory, while in the possession of those powers, as
governments de facto, were held not to be valid under those treaties
or the law of nations, to have been exclusively these. The British
grant was made flagrante hello, the treaty of peace neither ceded or
relinquished any territory to the United States, or to particular
states; it was a solem'n recognition and acknowledgment of their
pre-existing
rights.
The Spanish
grant, though made during peace, became void by
the admission of Spain, in the treaty of 1795, of the original right
of the United States to the territory in which the land was situated;
by the express stipulation, that the settlers within the boundary
established, should remove, with their effects, within a stipulated
time; and that there was no stipulation in the treaty, fbr the protection of the inhabitants, in the enjoyment pf property held rwider
Spanish grants previously made.

JANUARY TERM, 184o.

401

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

There was another feature, common to both cases, which was
noticed by the Court, growing out of the compact with Georgia, and
consequent acts of Congress. This compact was made by "article
of agreement and cession," entered into the 24th April, 1802, "between the United States and the state of Georgia," in virtue of an
act of Congress, "for an amicable settlement of limits with that
state," and a law thereof.
By art. 1. "Georgia cedes to the United States all the right, title,
and claim to the jurisdiction and soil of the lands within her boundary, west of the river Chatahouchee, upon the following express
conditions, and subject thereto, that is to say," &c. Secondly,
" That all persons who, on the 27th October, 1795, (the date- of the
treaty with Spain,) were actual settlers within the territory thus ceded,
'shall be confirmed' in all the grants legally and fully executed
prior to that day, by the former British government of West Florida,
or by the government of Spain, and in the claims which may be derived from any actual survey or settlement made under the act of
the state of Georgia," &c., passed 7th February, 1785.
By art. 2. "The United States accepted" this cession, on the conditions therein expressed, and ceded all their right, title, and claim
to soil and jurisdiction, of any land east of the line of cession, by
Georgia to the United States.
By art. 3._" The present act of cession and agreement shall be in
full force as soon as the legislature of Georgia shall have given its
assent to the boundaries of this cession," &c. No law or other act
of assent was therefore necessary by the United States to give it full
effect.
In April, 1802, Georgia passed an act to ratify and confirm the
agreement, which enacted, "That the said deed or articles of
agreement and cession be, and the same hereby is, and are fulls-,
absolutely, and amply, ratified and confirmed in all its parts; and
hereby is and are declared to be binding and conclusive on the said
1 Laws U. S. 488.
state, her government, and citizens forever."
The act of Congress under which this compact was made, authorized the commissioners appointed by the United States, " to
adjust and determine," "all interfering claims of the United States
and Georgia, to territory west of the Chatahouchee, north of 310
north latitude, and south of the cession made by South Carolina,"
&c. 1 Story, 494. A subsequent act gave them power, "finally to
settle by compromise," &c., " any claims mentioned in the former
act, and on behalf of the United States, to receive a cession of any
lands fherein mentioned, or of the jurisdiction thereof, on such terms
as to them shall seem reasonable." Ibid. 779.
Subsequent laws provided for carrying this comact into effect.
2 Story, 893. 952. 955.
By now comparing the treaty of 1819, with the treaty-of peace
with Great Britain, in 1783, it is palpable that it contains no recognition or acknowledgment of the pre-existing right of the United
States to the disputed territory; it therefore does not come, within
2L 2

51

402

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs V8.Kibbe.1

the principles which the Court applied to the British grant, arising
from the nature of that treaty; nor does the principle of the law
of nations, in relation to grants made during a war, apply to grants
made by Spain, between 1804 and 1810, while in peaceful possession of the territory. A comparison of the two treaties with Spain,
places them in more striking contrast in their titles and the stipulations of their respective articles. That of 1795 was declared to be
a "Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and Navigation ;" that of 1819,
declared
be a "Treaty of Amity, Settlement, and Limits."
was
. The
declaredto object
of the first was " to establish several points,
the settlement whereof will be productive of general advantage and
reciprocal utility to both nations." Vide I Laws U. S. 262. Its
stipulations have been noticed. The declared object of the second
was to "settle, terminate, and put an end to all their differences and
pretensions," so as "to consolidate on a permanent basis," &c.
Art. 5. "The inhabitants of the ceded.territories shall be secured
in the free exercise of their religion without any restriction; and
all those who may desire to remove to the Spanish dominions, shall
be permitted to sell or export their effects at any time, withont being
subject, in either case to duties."
Art. 6. "They shall be incorporated into the Union," &c.; "and
admitted to the enjoyment of all the rights, privileges, and immunities of citizens of the United States."
Art. 7. " The officers and troops of his Catholic Mejesty," &c.,
"shall be withdrawn, and possession of the places occupied by them
shall be given within six months after the exchange," &c.
Art. 8. "All grants of lands," &c., "shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands, to the same extent
that the same grants would be valid, if," &e.
This treaty, it must be remembered, had been preceded by the
same mutual claims atnd pretensions of both parties, perseveringly
maintained, during long and fruitless discussions between the two
governments, as had been the case before the treaty of 1795; and
that the possession of. the territory' was held by the United States,
under the most solemn pledges by the President and Cpngress, that
it was in their hands, subject to future negotiation, and that the
inhabitants should be protected in the enjoyment of their liberty,
property, and religion.
Now let this treaty have the benefit of the principles of the law
of nations, which were laid -down by the Court in the two cases in
12 Wheaton, as a treaty of cession, settlement, and peace, or as a
.relinquishment by Spain and purchase by the United States, or as a
compact, deed, or articles of agreement; let it receive the same
construction dnd effect, ah was given to the agreement, or as the
Court called it, the treaty with Georgia, and then it can be ascertained what would have been the iesult, had the grants in those
cases been protected by any treaty stipulation. Let, also, the acts
of Congress which related to claims under the treaty with Georgia,
be compared with those which related to the country west of the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

403

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

Perdido especially, passed before 1821 ; together with those passed
since tile treaty was ratified, for the adjustment of titles to land, and
the same construction be applied to all, as the Court.gave to the
former; a satisfactory answer can be given to those questions.
1. Under such a treaty, would private property be protected by
the law of nations, if the fifth, sixth, and eighth articles had been
omitted ?
2 . Under the fifth, could the inhabitants who remained in the
province, in, the enjoyment of their religion, be deprived of their
property ?
3. Could those who chose to remove, give a good title to me
property which they might choose to sell, whether it was lands or
chattels ?
4. Under the sixth, till their incorporation into the Union, can the
inhabitants enjoy the rights, privileges, and immunities of American
citizens, if the United States can confiscate their lands, by declaring
their titles void, and granting them to others; and could this be
done after their incorporation ?
5. Under these, and the eighth article, is it optional with the
United States to confirm or confiscate ?
6. Had there been no treaty, would not the grants have been
valid under previous pledges by the United States, and the laws
annexing the disputed territory to the adjacent states ?
7. Without a treaty or specific pledge, would not the Constitution
of the United States protect the inhabitants in their rights of persons
and property, by the very act of such annexation, accepted by a
state ?
8. Are they not so protected, as the inhabitants of a territory of
the Unite,' States, under the ordinance of 1787, which was in force
in this territory?
9. Does not the law of nations give to these grants the same protection as in the case of conquest, or military occupation, until Congress shall, in virtue of the law of a conqueror, declare them void,
and resume the lands?
And, 10. Can questions arising in cases brought to recover property embraced by such grants, be decided by the Courts of the
United States, in virtue of the judicial power of the Constitution,
and twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or by special
tribunals appointed under the acts of Congress, with power to decide on the validity of titles acquired under such grants ?
So far as the solution of these questions depends on the stipulations' of the treaty of 1819, and the laws of nations applicable
'thereto, the principles laid down by the Court in Harcourt vs. Gail..
lord, and Henderson vs. Poindexter, already quoted, are so full, arid
so completely answer them, as to save the necessity of repeating
them. That treaty presents the reverse of those then under consideration, and the grant in the present case, is one which must have
been then 'held valid on every ground assumed by the Court in
favour of the grants then before them, had they come within the

404

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

rules and principles on which the Court made the distinctive line
between the different kinds of treaties.
But wher we apply them to the grant in the present case, it is a
matter of much surprise, that there could exist a doqbt of its
validity. Independently of the treaty, it was protected by the law
of conquest, military occupation, cession, or relinquishment; independently, too, of any of these considerations, the property of the
plaintiff in the land granted, was protected by the acts of thQ United
States, under which their Military occupation or acquisition begun
and was continued. And, independently of all other considerations,
it was protected by the stipulations of a treaty of cession, amity,
settlement, and limits, every clause whereof was accepted, ratified,
and confirmed by the treaty-making power of the United States,
and proclaimed as binding on them, by its constitutional effect.
At the same term in which Harcourt vs. Gaillard, and Henderson
vs. Poindexter were decided, the case of Delacroix vs. Chamberlain,
came up; the controversy arose on a concession of land in the disputed territory; and as the opinion of the Court, taken in connection with the two preceding cases, and the case of -Canter.
1 Peters, 542, decided at the next term, is of decisive bearing on
this case, it is given at large.
"The concession referred to in the bill of exceptions, is,
upon is
face, not a grant, nor a survey, but it is, as is expressed in the bill
of exceptions, only a warrant or order of survey, authorizing the
deputy surveyor to make a survey, and to report to the intendant
the survey when made, in order to found a grant upon it. The
order of survey bears date the -

day of

-

, 1806.

At that date,

the Spanish authorities were in the actual possession of Mobile,
where the land lies; and they claimed it as part of the Floridas,
then belonging to the Spanish crown. The United States claimed
it as part of Louisiana. But it is not necessary to investigate these
conflicting claims. The United States have since obtained the Floridas by purchase and cession from Spain, without having previously settled the coritroverted bolindary between the Floridas as
claimed by Spain, and Louisiana as claimed by the United States.
A question of disputed boundary between two sovereign, independent nations, is, indeed, much more properly a subject of diplomatic discussion and of treaty, than of judicial investigation. If
the United States and Spain had settled their dispute by treaty, before the United States extinguished the claim of Spain to the Floridas, the boundary thus fixed would have conelumed all parties.
But as that was not done, the Untted States have never, as far as we
can discover, distinguished between the concessions of land made
by the Spanish authorities within the disputed territory, while Spain
was in the actual possession of it, from concessions of a similar
character made by Spain within the acknowledged limits. We
will not, therefore, raise any question upon the ground, of .ny want
of authority in the intendant to make the concession. No question of that sort appears to have been made in-the Cnuri below.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

405

(Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe;]

Assuming, then, the authority of the Spanish intendant to make the
concession and warrant of survey, the question made and decided
in the District Court fairly arises : was it a sufficient title to recover
upon in an action of ejectment? If the concession had been made
in a country, where at the time the principles and practices known
to the common lawprevailed, it would not bear a contest. It
would be regarded, at most, as an incipient, inchoate right, but not
a perfect, legal estate. It would not be such title as would inaintain an action of ejectment. Was it a perfect, legal estate ; was it
a title according to the Spanish law which prevailed at Mobile at
the time it was made ? We apprehend not."
"It shows upon its face that other acts of sovereignty remained to
be done to perfect the title; and which the sovereign power might
withhold. A survey was to be made; and according to the laws
and usages of Spain, a formal grant was to be made in such cases,
to complete the title.
"It may be admitted that the United States were bound in good
faith by the terms of the treaty of cession, by which they acquired
the Floridas, to confirm such concessions as had been made by warrants of survey; yet it would not follow, that the legal title would
be perfected until confirmation. The government of the United
States has throughout acted upon a different principle, in relation to
these inchgate rights, in all their acquisitions of territory, whether
from Spain or France. Whilst the government has admitted its
obligation to confirm such inchoate rights or concessions as had
been fairly made, it has maintained that th6 legal title has remained
in the United States, until by some act of confirmation it was passed
or relinquished to the claimants. It has maintained its right toprescribe the .forms and the manner of proceeding in order to obtain a
confirmation, and its right to establish tribunals to investigate and
pronounce upon their validity." Ibid. "This is demonstrated by
the laws which Congress have repeatedly passed, establishing boards
of commissioners to investigate these claims, and to reject or confirm
them, or report them to Congress in cases of doubt; and by the acts
of Congress requiring all such claims to be recorded within prescribed periods. It does not appear that this order of survey has
ever been recorded, or passed upon by the board of commissioners,
or register of the land office, established by Congress in the district
in which the land lies. It can therefore derive no aid from the laws
of the United States." 12 Wheat. 600. 602."
In conclusion, the Coum:t affirmed the judgment, because an ejectment could not be sustained on the order of survey. Ibid. 603.
But had this been a legal title, complete in form, granting the legal
estate, and duly recorded, there could have remained no doubt that
the plaintiff would have recovered, as his case came within every
principle of the preceding cases of Harcourt vs. Gaillard, Henderson vs. Poindexter, of which the leading one is this: that "all the
acts of Congress on the subject of grants within the disputed territory, under the compact with Georgia, presuppose the validity of

SUPREME COURT.
(Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.)

those which were legally and fully executed before the 25th October, 1795."
12 Wheat. 528, 529. 536. The articles with Georgia
were in themselves a confirmation of titles within its provisions,

(539;) protected by them, (540;) and confirmed by them. And by
the acts of 1819 and 1822, perfect grants were expressly recognised
as complete titles.
If these opinions of this Court require additional support to entitle
them to respect, it Will be found in Keenie vs. M'Donough; in which,
by a decree of a Spanish Court, rendered in 1804, at Baton Rouge,
which is within the disputed territory, lands were sold and conveyed
to the defendant's grantor, who held them under such decree and
sale; and this is the language of this Court in affirming its validity:
"The adjudication having been made by a Spanish tribunal, after
the cession of the country to the United States, does not make it
void ; for we know historically that the actual possession of the territory was not surrendered until some time after these proceedings
took place. It was the judgment, therefore, of a competent Spanish
tribunal, havingllJurisdiction of the case, and rendered whilst the
country, although ceded, was de facto in the possession of Spain,
and subject to Spanish laws. Such judgments, so ffir as they affect
the private rights of the parties thereto, must be deemed valid.
"This view of the case supersedes the necessity of considering the
question of prescription." 8 Peters, 310.
This Spanish tribunal, it must be remembered, was the governor
of the province, acting in his judicial capacity, in which he had
power by the Spanish law to order a sale of land; which passed
the title of the proprietor to the purchaser, on the execution of a
deed, which was deemed the strongest and safest conveyance known
to the jurisprudence of Spain. In his political capacity, the same
governor had power to dispose of the royal domain, and to make
valid grants thereof, which conferred a perfect right of property in
the lands so granted. It would therefore be a novt principle in
American jurisprudence, if while this governor, by judleial power,
could transfer the property of A. to B., he yet could not by political
power, so far dispose of the public domain as to bind the king, in
whose name and, by whose authority he acted as his direct representative ; or everf affect his conscience as a trustee, in virtue of the
grant, to the grantee. And if the king was so bound by a perfect
grant, or became a trustee by a mere concession or order of survey,
the United States succeeded to the obligation of the king to perfect
the title, according to the laws, usages, and customs of Spain; and
the grant or concession stood "ratified and confirmed" under the
treaty, to the same extent at least, as a judgment did before it.
12 Peters, 484.
The two first of these cases establish these principles: that grants
of land in a disputed territory, made by.a government in possession
thereof, during peace with a nation which is entitled to its dominion
and propriety, are valid by the law of nations, without any treaty
stipulation; if made durina wai, they are not valid unless protected

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

407

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe;]

by the treaty: that when territory is acquired by a cession, or relinquishment of one nation to another, or by conquest, the rights of
private property are protected by the law of nations, according to
the law of the territory, though no stipulation is contained in the act
of cession or relinquishment; and even in case of conquest, no other
change is effected except as to government: and that when a stipulation for property is required, it is never refused; and when made,
is sacredly observed. But when, by a treaty or compact, one nation
or state admits the original right of the other to the disputed territory, without any stipulation in favour of the inhabitants, as to lands
held by grant under the party which admits the right of the other,
the treaty binds their rights, and the grants are not valid against the
party whose original right is acknowledged. S. P. 11 Peters, 209,
210.

Delacroix vs. Chamberlain established the application of the treaty
of 1819 to the disputed territory, as a cession thereof by Spain, a

purchase by the United. States, and a settlement of former controversies concerning it, (S. P. 12 Peters, 515 ;) that the grants and
concessions made by Spain while in possession, are on the same
footing as in other parts of Florida; that the United States are
bound in good faith to confirm imperfect titles, and has admitted its
obligation to do so, when the inchoate title has been fairly made.
And when,.in the case of Canter, this Court declared, that this treaty
is the "law of the land," (1 Peters, 5.12,) the omission of any reference to either of these cases in the opinion in Foster and Elam,
shows most clearly that they were not cons'idered by the Court; and
when the principles they established are properly considered, it cannot be doubted, that had they been noticed by the majority, the
judgment would have been different, for they covered every point
in the case.
In Percheman's case, the Court unanimously assert, that if the
Spanish part of the treaty had ben within their view in Foster and
Elam, they would have given'it the same construction as they afterwards did; and it is not disrespectful in me to say, that a similar
result must have followed, if the four last decisions of the Vourt had
been under their consideration.
The silence in the opinion in Foster and Elam, can by no just rule
be taken to overrule either, of those cases; it lays down no antagolist principle, except that the treaty remained a irere contract
till Coogress executed it by a law; it was as silent on the law of
nations as on former adjudications; yet it will not be pretetded, that
it was meant to controvert or abrogate those principles Which are
consecrated by "the usage of the civilized world." 12 Wheat535.

That opinion admits of no such interpretation, when carefully
examined,.from 2 Peters, 299- -317, it will be found to turn entirelv
on the since overruled construction of the treaty, and the non-filing
of the 'plaintiff's claim; nor, with that exception, is there a single
principle laid down which militates with former decisions in any

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

respect. And if the since exploded construction of the treaty is
stricken from the opinion; and the principles of Arredondo, Percheman, Clarke, and all subsequent cases are inserted in its place,
it will be found that there is not a stronger case in favour of the
validity of grants in the disputed territory. The case arose on one
of that description; the Court tested its validity by the treaty, which
they construed in reference to its language alone, as applicable
to the whole ceded territory, without adverting to any distinction
in its construction, between grants within or without the disputed
territory; on the contrary, it was expressly held, that the treaty
would apply to a grant west of the Perdido, if it was construed as
it has been ever since; and that the eighth article would have confirmed even the rejected grants, had they not been excepted by the
ratification. 2 Peters, 312, 313.
When the true construction of the treaty is infused into that
opinion, it supports every position on which the plaintiff's title
rests ; and the doubts which have arisen upon it, can be attributed to
no other cause, than by misapprehending its principle; or by viewing the overruled construction as restored, without a reference to the
ground on which the decision was placed, or appreciating the principles which would have followed; by considering the treaty as selfexecuted by its own intrinsic force. In which case the Court declare, that the grant would have been valid, within the disputed
territory.
It has been supposed, that the opinion in that case went on the
ground, that questions of title to lands, arising on Spanish grants in
the disputed territory, between 1803 and 1810, were of a political,
and not judicial character; depending on the construction of the
Louisiana treaty, as to its eastern boundary. But no such principle
is to be found in the opinion : the question of boundary is taken to
be settled, and not open to judicial inquiry; yet all other questions
affecting the validity of1 the grant, are throughout considered, as
open and of judicial cognisance: had boundary and title been considered to be identical, the Court would have been saved from the
labour which they took, to show that the title was invalid on other
grounds; for when the Perdido was taken as the true boundary, all
grants west of it were consequently void, if title depended on
boundary.
This is another source of misapprehension of this opinion, which
has of late given to it an importance, after it had remained unnoticed in any opinion of the Court after Percheman's case, till 1838.
After the opinion in that case was promulgated, the turning principle of Foster and Elam, was universally understood to be overruled, and its authority ceased to be relied on; and it was not even
quoted by the counsel of the United States in the argument of
Percheman's case, though the aid of'. rredondo was invoked. Vide,
7 Peters, 59. 62.

It is not a little strange that it should now be taken to be a leading case on Spanish titles, when its vital principle is extinguished

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

409

[Lessee of Polldrd's Heirs vs, Kibbe.)

by an unquestioned series of decisions to the contrary, and all the
principles which remain unshaken, are decidedly in favour of a
conclusion directly the reverse of that to which the Court arrived,
on their then erroneous Oconstructioh of the eighth article, and the
ratification of the king. If, then, the case of Foster and Elam is
yet to be considered as a leading or authoritative one, it can be only
as to the boundary of Louisiana, which is a concessum; on every
other principle of'that case, which is not now admitted to be overruled, and to stand overruled, I rely as supporting the plaintiff's
title; and by now infusing into it the universally received and admitted construction of the treaty, consider it as decisive of this
case, without the aid of the acts of 1824 or 1836.
It is somewhat remarkable, that there is no one opinion of this
Court, or any of its members, which even questions any one principle
of the law of nations, as laid down in the cases of Harcourt vs. Gaillard, Henderson vs. Poindexter, Insurance Company vs, Canter,
United States vs. Soulard, Arredondo, Plercheman, Delassus, Mitchell, Strother vs. Lucas, and Rhode Island vs. Massachusetts; in the
latter of which these principles are reiterated. "There are two
principles of the law of nations, which would protect them, (the
inhabitants of a disputed territory,) in their property. 1. That
grants by a government de faito, of parts of a disputed territory in
its possession, are valid against the state which had the right. 2.
That when a territory is acquired by treaty, cession, or even conquest, the rights of the inhabitants to property are respected and
sacred."
12 Peters, 748, 749.
If the reference to Poole vs. Fleeger, in 12 Peters, 521, is to be
considered as questioning any principle of the law of nations, to
which the above named cases refer, it must have arisen from relying on two passages of the opinion in Poole vs. Fleeger, detached
from the context immediately preceding and succeeding them.
When the whole opinion in 11 Peters, 209. 211, is taken in connection with the terms of the compact between Kentucky and Tennessee, it will be found that the case turned on the precise principles of Harcourt vs. Gaillard, and Henderson vs. Poindexter, as
is abundantly manifest from the turning and decisive point in the'
case.

The Circuit Court instructed the jury, "that the state of Tennessee, by sanctioning the compact, admitted in the most solemn
form, that the lands in dispute were not within her jurisdiction, nor
within the jurisdiction of North Corolina at the time they were
granted; and that, consequently, the titles were subject to the conditions of the compact," which was the ground of the exception
and writ of error to this Court. After referring to the law of nations and the Constitution, the learned judge who delivered the
opinion of the Couit proceeded to assign their reasons.
"The compact, then, has full validity, and all the terms and conditions of it must be equally obligatory upon the citizeits of both states."
Vol. XIV.-2 M
52

410

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

"Independently of this broad and general ground, there are other
ingredients in thp present case, equally decisive of the merits.
"Although in the compact, Walker's line is agreed to be in future
the boundary between 'the two states, it is not so established as
naving been for the past, the true and rightful boundary ; on 'the
contrary, the compact admits the fact to be the other way. While
the compact cedes to Tennessee the jurisdiction up to Walker's line,
it cedes to Kentucky all the unappropriated lands north of latitude
360 30' north. It thus admits what is in truth undeniable, that the
true and legitimate boundary of North, Carolina, is in that parallel
of latitude, &c. It goes further, and admits that all claims under
Virginia to lands north of that boundary shall not be prejudiced by
the establishment of Walker's line; but such claims shall be considered as rightfully entered or granted. The compact then does, by
necessary implication, admit, that the boundary between Kentucky
and Tennessee is the latitude 360 30 north, and that Walker's line
is to be the true line only for the purpose of future jurisdiction.
"In this view of the matter it is perfectly clear, that the grants made
by North Carolina and Tennessee were not rightfully ma le, because
they were originally beyond her territorial boundary; and that the
grant under which the claimants claim was rightfully made, because it was within the territorial boundary of Virginia. So that
upon this narrower ground, if it were necessary, as we think it is
not, to prove the case, it is clear that the instruction of the Court
was correct." (Vide Robinson vs. Campbell, 3 Wheat 218-220.) In
that case, the compact betwoen Virginia and Tennessee, made in
1802, contained a stipulation in favour of grants by the latter, which
were held to be valid; so that taking the two compacts, and the de'cisions upon them, they fully illustrate and affirm the principles of
the two cessions. 12 Wheat. 525. 535.
It is thus apparent, that an erroneous view has been taken of the
principles on which Poole vs. Fleeger was decided; and that when
the whole opinionis considered, it does not impugn, but affirms an
established rule, w.hich is an exception to the general principle, that
grants of land in a disputed territory, by a government de facto, in
possession, are valid.
The same error appears to have occurred in the view which is
taken of the opinion in Foster ar'd Elam,'in the passages extracted
from it, in 12, Peters, 517-519, and in the same manner-by not
carefully and closely'examining the immediate context. Thus the
long extract from 2 Peters, 309, when referred to the preceding sentence, relates solely to "acts of sovereign power," by the United
States, before the ratification of the treaty, aid to acts done-in virtue
of the treaty of 1803 alone, and to boundary, as the only political
question involved in that case.. So-as to the passdges 6xtraoted in
12 Peters, 518, 519, from 2 Peters, 311. 313.

The first, when con-

nected with the context preceding and following it, refers to .he
second and not the eighth.iarticle of the treaty of 1819 ; the other',

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

411

[Lessee of Pollard'r Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

when referred in the same manner to the preceding context, will be
found to be only the conclusion which resulted from the since overruled construction of the eighth article, and ratification of the king.
I trust it will not be deemed improper or disrespectful to have
made these remarks in relation to this view of the two cases of
Poole vs. Fleeger and Foster and Elam, which have been thus noticed after the most thorough examination; the view seems to me
to have been a mistaken one, which may well be accounted for by
the late period of the term, and the broad field of investigation,
which became opened by the course of the argument, and the nature
of' the case in 12 Peters, 515.

On a comparison of the compact between Tennessee and Kentucky, with the treatyof 1819, the contrast between them is striking.
By the former, Tennessee admitted, in the most solemn form, the
original right of Kentucky ; while in the latter, neither party admitted the previous right of the other, but, as held in Foster an4 Elam,
(2 Peters, 310,) each had uniformly and perseveringly insisted on
their respectivo rights. The Court also held, that "it is then a fair
inference from the language of the treaty, that he (the king) did not
mean to retrace his steps, and relinquish his pretensions; but to cede,
on a sufficient consideration, all that he claimed as his; and, consequently, by the eighth article, to stipulate for the confirmation of all
the grants which he had made while the title remained in him."
This language requires no comment.
The Court also held, that the United States did not admit the
right of Spain; and add, "it is not improbable that terms were
selected which might not compromise the dignity of either government, and which each might understand consistently with its former
pretensions." 2 Peters, 311.,
Thus it appears that Foster and Elam presents a decisive answer
to any argument founded on Poole vs. Fleeger, which tends to controvert any one principle of the law of nations, laid down in any
opinion of this Court, in relation to treaties or compacts between
nations or states; and in the whole course of adjudication on these
subjects, the Court has decided with perfect uniformity and consistency, from 1827 till 1838, on all titles in the various territories acquired by the United States in 1802, 1803, and 1821.

In doing so, the Court have taken no new ground, but have followed in the old and beaten path, trodden first by the Federal Court
of Appeals, in 1781, and uursued by this tribunal from its first organization.
4. In Miller vs. Miller, the case arose on articles of capitulation,
and the Court held, that the case must be decided by the resolves
and ordinances of Congress, when they applied; when they were
ilent, by the laws, usages, and practice of nations; and that a stipulation that the inhabitants shall enjoy all the rights and privileges
of subjects of the conquering nation, is a compact which puts them
on the same footing as if they had been native subjects, and secures
their property from confiscatiom eve" by the rights of war. 2 Dal.

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.)

So in Johnson vs. M'Intosh, "the rights of the conquered
to property should remain unimpaired, and the new subjects should
be governed as equitabl y as the old." 8 Wheat. 589.
"When the conquest is complete, and the conquered inhabitants
can be blended with the conquerors, or be safely governed as a distinct people, public opinion, which not even the conqueror can disregard, imposes those restraints upon him, and he cannot neglect
them, without injury to his fame and hazard to his power." 8
Wheat. 590.
" The Constitution of the United States declares a treaty to be
the supreme law of the land. Of consequence, its obligation on the
Courts of the United States must be admitted.
"It is certainly true, that the execution of a contract between
nations, is to be demanded from, and generally superintended by
the executive of each nation, &c. But where a treaty is the law
of the land, and, as such, affects the rights of parties litigant in
Court, that treaty as much binds their rights, and is as much to be
regarded by the Court, as an act of Congress; and an this principle
it was held, that a stipulation in a treaty that property ' shall be'
restored, operated as an immediate restoration, and annulled a judgruent of condemnation previously made."
United States vs. The
1-11.

Peggy, 1 Cranch, 109, 110.

The fourth article of the treaty of peace with Great Britain, in
1783, stipulated that creditors shall meet with no lawful impediment
to the recovery of debts. The sixth article stipulated, that there
"shall be" no future confiscations, and that persons in confinement
" shall be" immediately set at liberty, and prosecutions commenced
be discontinued. The ninth article of the treaty of 1794 stipulated,
that British subjects, &c., "shall continue to hold lands," &c.
In Ware vs. Hylton, it was held, that the treaty of peace repealed
and nullified all state laws, by its own operation, revived the debt,
removed all lawful impediments, and was a supreme law, which
overrules all state laws on the subject, to all intents and purposes;
and is of equal force and effect as the Constitution itself. 3 Dall.
235. 239. 240. 281. 284.

In Hopkins vs. Bell, the treaty was held to repeal the Virginia
statute of limitations. 3 Cranch, 453. 457.
In Hunter vs. Martin, the treaty of 1794 was held to be the
supreme law of the land; that it completely protected and confirmed
the title, of 'Fairfax, even admitting that the treaty of peace had left
him wholly unprovided for ithat as a public law, it was a part of
every case before the Court, and so completely governed it, that in a
case where a treaty was ratified after the rendition of a judgment
in the Circuit Court, which was impeachable on no other ground
than the effect of a treaty, the judgment was reversed on that ground.
7 Cranch, 727. S. C. and S. P. 1 Wheat. 336. 370. S. P. 3 Wheat.
599.

4 Wheat. 462, 463. 490.

The treaty of .1778, with France, stipulated that the subjects of
France shall not be reputed aliens; and it Was held, that it gave

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

413

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

them the right to purchase and hold lands in the United States, and
in that respect put theim on the precise footing as if they had become
citizens. 2 Wheat. 270. 277. S. P. 4 Wheat. 464. 7 Wheat. 544.
8 Wheat. 493,494. 10 Wheat. 189. 1 Wheat. 301. 9 Wheat. 496.
So in the Pizarro, it was held, that the stipulation in the fifteenth
article of the treaty of 1795, with Spain, that free ships "shall make
free goods," protected enemies' property as fully as that of a neutral.

2 Wheat. 242.

5. The decisions of this Court on compacts of boundary between
states, are most peculiarly appropriate to the treaty of 1819, and will
now be noticed.
Sims vs. Irvine arose on a compact between Pennsylvania and
Virginia, in 1779, which stipulated, "that the private property and
rights of all persons, acquired under, founded on, or recognised by
the laws of either country, previous to the date hereof, be saved and
confirmed to them, although they should be found to fall within the
other; and that in the decisions o( disputes thereon, preference shall
be given to the elder or prior right, whichever of the said states the
prior right shall have been acquired under," &c. (3 Dall. 426;) on
which the Court laid down these principles: The terms therein of
reserve and confirmation "of the rights which had been previously
acquired under Virginia, in the territory thereby relinquished to
Pennsylvania, must, from the nature of the transaction; be expounded
favourably for those rights; and so that titles substantially good,
should not, after a change of jurisdiction, be disputed or questioned
for formal defects." 3 Dall. 456,457. The case of Marlatt vs. Silk
arose under the same compact; in which the Court decided, that a
right recognised by Virginia previous to the date of the compact,
was secured and confirmed by it, (11 Peters, 21;) and that questions
arising under the compact were not to be decided according to the
adjudications of either state, but were "of an international character." Ibid. 22, 23.
"In Robinson vs. Campbell, the Court construed the compact
between Virginia and North Carolina, according to the intention of
the parties, as it appeared in the compact, and the laws passed to
carry it into effect; and in Burton vs. Williams, construed the same
compact, and an act of Congress to give it effect, by the events which
"led thereto, and the motives of the parties to the compact, which
influenced theyn in making it, and gave the utmost latitude to the
act of Congress, so as to give effect to the compact, its provisions
and objects." 3 Wheat. 218. 220. 533. 535.
Handlin vs. Anthony arose on the cession from Virginia to the
United States, as to the boundary on the Ohio. The Court decided
on it, as it was intended by Virginia when she made the cession;
what Virginia had in view in making the deed, according to the
great object intended to be effected ; and declared that those princi,pes and considerations which produced the boundary, ought to preserve it. 5 Wheat. 377. 379. 383, 384.
Green vs. Biddle arose on the compact between Virginia and
2 M2

414

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollmd's Heirs v8. Kibbe.]

Kentucky, the seventh article of which stipulated, that all private
rights and ihterests of lands derived from the laws of Virginia,
"shall remain valid a'td secure" under the laws of Kentucky, and
"shall, be determined" by the laws then existing in Virginia, &c. &c.
The Court held, that such rights must be exclusively determined by
the law of Virginia, and that their security and- validity could not
be impaired by a law of Kentucky. That the compact intended to
preserve all private rights derived from Virginia, as valid under the
laws of Kentucky as they were under the then existing laws of
Virginia, so as to preserve the'beneficial proprietary interest of the
rightful owner in the same state in which they were by the laws of
Virginia at the time of the separation; and to use all existing remedies which would prevent those rights from being impaired. 8 Wheat.
13. 16. 89, 90. 92.
The same principles were reaffirmed in Hawkins vs. Barney, on
the same compact. 5 Peters, 464, 465.
In New Orleans vs. The United States, before noticed, the Court,
in giving effect to the treaty of 1803, decided directly in contradiction to several acts of Congress, which were unequivocal in their
character, asserting the right of the United States to the land in controversy, and granting parts thereof in fee, notwithstanding the admission of the city authorities of the right of the United States,
(10 Peters, 735.;) thus practically adopting the principles laid down
in New Orleans vs. De Armas, in 9 Peters, 234-236; and deciding
according to Spanish law.
In Green vs. Biddle it was tield, that by the principles of general
law, independent of a compact, the titles to real estate can be determined only by the laws of the state under which they were acquired.
Every government has, and from the nature of sovereignty must
have, the exclusive right of distribution and grants of the public
domain within its boundaries, until it yields it up by compact or
conquest. The validity of a title can be judged of by no other rule
than those laws in which it had its origin; and a title, good by those,
laws, cannot be disregarded but by a departure from the first principles of justice. "If the article, therefore, meant only to provide
for the affirmation of that w.hich is the universal rule in the Courts
of civilized nations, professing to be governed by the dictates of
law," it was a mere nullity. 8 Wheat. 11, 12. The common law
claimant of land under
was a part of the law of Virginia; and tlh.e
Virginia had a right to appear in the Courts of Kentucky as he
a separation had not taken place; and
might in a Virginia Court, it'
to demand a trial of his right by the same principles of law which
would have governed his case in the Courts of the latter state. Ibid.
74, 75. 83. S. P. 12 Peters, 484. 1 Peters, 542. 544.
In Robinson vt.Campbell, the Court decided, that under the compact settling the boundary between Virginia and Tennessee, made
in 1802, which contained a clause similar to that in the treaty of
Ghent, before recited, "that all claims and titles to land, derived
from Virginia, North Carolina, or Tennessee, which have fallen into

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

415

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

the respective states, shall remain as secure to the owners thereof as
if derived from the government within whose lines they have fallen,
and shall notbe prejudiced or affected in consequence of the establishment of said line." It gave the same effect and validity to the
titles acquired in the disputed territory as they had or would have
had in the state by which they were granted, leaving the remedies
to enforce such rights to be regulated by the lex fori. 3 Wheat.
319, 320, &c.

By the terms 9f this compact, it appears that they are directly
the opposite to the compact of 1820, between Tennessee and Kentucky, for while the latter was an unequivocal admission by Tennessee of the original right of Virginia and Kentucky, it not only
omitted any stipulation in favour of grants by Tennessee, it admitted the validity of grants by Virginia, in express terms; whereas,
in the former, there was a stipulation in favourjof the grants of
Tennessee which gave them validity.
These two compacts are as distinctive in their character as the
two treaties of 1795 and 1819, between Spain and the United
States; and this marked distinction, when carried into the opinions
of the Court, in Robinson vs. Campbell, and Poole vs. Fleeger, on
the respective compacts; the cases of Harcourt vs." Gaillard, and
Henderson vs. Poindexter, on the treaties of 1783, and 1795, the

cases before recited on the treaties of 1803, 1819, and the several
compacts between states, will be found to be clear of all collision
with each other, and most- conclusive on every point involved in
this cause. From 1781 to this time, every treaty of whatever kind,
every compact between state and state, states and the United States,
articles of capitulation, or even articles of agreement, have been
held to effect by their own force, every stipulation which declares,
that a thing "shall be" done, or not done ; that thenceforth the
thing is done, every thing that "shall not" be done, if done previously, is repealed and nullified.
IAll treaties, compacts, and articles of agreement in the nature of
treaties to which the United States are parties, have ever been held
to be the supreme law of the land, executing themselves by their
own fiat, having the same effect as an act of Congress, and of equal
force with the Constitution ; and if any act is required on the pairt
of the United States, it is to be performed by the executive, and not
the legislative power, as declared in the case of the Peggy iii 1801 ;
and since affirmed with the exception of only Foster and Elam.
Whether that case, standing solitary and alone, shall stand in its
glory or its ruins, a judicial monument, or a warning beacon, is not
dependent on my opinion ; my duty is performed by the preceding
review of the law of this case in all its various branches, which has
led my mind to a conclusion necessarily resulting from the established principles of constitutional, national, and local law.
6. In ascertaining what are judicial principles and rules of decision, in testing the validity of titles, emanating from the Spanish
authorities in the disputed territory from 1804 till 1810, under the

416

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

treaty of 1803 or 1819; a general reference to the cases before recited will show, that with the single exception of a question of disputed boundary, every other question affecting title has been uniformly held to be strictly judicial. In Hunte'r vs. Martin, the Court
established the general principle, that when a case arises under a
treaty, the whole title of the parties must be examined and decided
by the Court, as well on the construction of the treaty and every
matter bearing upon it. 1 Wheat. 352-360. In New Orleans vs.
De Armas, it was decided, that under the Louisiana treaty, the inhabitants had a right to have their titles decided: by the same tribunals which decide similar rights in other states. 9 Pet. 235; and
in New Orleans vs. The United States, an illustrious instance is
found of the action of the Courts of the United States, asserting
the supremacy of a treaty, in protecting private property against a

series of acts of Congress for nearly thirty years.

10 Peters,

734. 736.

When the true construction of the Florida treaty was settled in
the case of Arredondo, the Court declared as a consequence thereof:
"The proprietors could bring suits to recover them, (the lands embraced in the grants confirmed by the treaty,) and any question
arising would be purely a judicial one." 6 Peters, 741,742.
So in Percheman's case. "Without it (the eighth article) the
titles of individuals would remain as valid under the new government as they were under the old ; and those titles, at least so far as
they were consummate, might be asserted in the Courts of the
United States independently of this article." 7 Peters, 88.
In Delacroix vs. Chamberlain, the question of boundary was con
sidered to be political in its character, but evei'y other question was
treated as judicial. 12 Wheat. 600. 602. So boundary was held in
Foster and Elam, 2 Peters, 309, to be political. Yet in the same
case the Court declared: "Our Constitution declares a treaty to be
the law of the land. It is, consequently, to be regarded in Courts
of justice, as equivalent to an act of the legislature, whenever it
operates of itself without the aid of any legislative provisions."
Ibid. 314.

I presume it is scarcely necessary to inquire, whether the construction of an act of Congress presents a judicial or political question.
In Strother vs. Lucas, the Court say, "Treaties are the law of the
land, and a rule of decision in all Courts, their stipulations are binding on the United States; in that of 1819, there is a present confirmation of all grants made before January 1818, with the exception of only three which had been previously made, and were expressly omitted." 12 Peters, 439.
In Massachusetts vs. Rhode Island, it was held, that "the construction of compacts between states," was a judicial question, and
was so considered by this Court, in Sims vs. Irvine, Marlatt vs.
Silk, and Burton vs. Williams."' 12 Peters, 725. And after a
review of Foster and Elam, Arredondo, and Percheman, it is said,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

417

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

"That no act of the political department remained to be done; that
it (the treaty of 1819) was an executed treaty, the law of the land,
and a rule for the Court. In the numerous cases which have arisen
since, the treaty has been taken to be an executed one, a rule of title
and property and all questions arising under it to be judicial."
Ibid. 747.
The opinion of the Chief Justice in this case, is full to the point
now considered. "I do not doubt the power of this Court to hear
and determine a controversy between states, or between individuals,
in relation to the boundaries of the states, when the suit is brought
to try a right of property in the soil, or any other right which is
properly the sutject of judicial cognisance and decision, and which
depends on the true boundary line." Ibid. 752.
But I do not rest this point on judicial authority, a higher power
confers inviolable sanctity on the right of the inhabitants, and proprietors of land in the disputed territory, which this Court will never
question. The ordinance of 1787 is declared to be a compact.between the original states and the people and states in the said territory, and "shall forever remain inviolable, unless by common consent,'

I Laws of the United States, 478.

3 Story, 2076.

"The inhabitants of the said territory shall always be entitled
to the benefits of," &c. ; "and of judicial proceedings, according to
the course of the common law." Ibid. 479.
"No man shall be deprived of his liberty or property, but by the
judgment of his peers, or the law of the land;" and if the public
emergency requires any person's property to be taken, full compensation shall be made for the same. Ibid.
The sixth article ofthe Constitution declares, that "all debts contracted, aad all engagements entered into, before the adoption of this
constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this
Constitution as under the confederation."
Thus this ordinance, the most solemn of all erlgagements, has
become a part of the Constitution, and is valid to protect and forever.
secure the rights of property and judicial proceedings to the inhabitanits of every territory to which it applies.
By the acts of Congress of 179S and 1800, the ordinance of 1787
was applied to the territory of Mississippi, (1 Story, 494. 778;) in
1805, to the territory of Orleans, (2 Story, 9,63;) embracing the whole

of the disputed territory.
This ordinance,, then, is in itself a panoply broad enough to cover
every right in controversy in this case, and impenetrable to any
assault which can be made upon them by any subordinate power.
When this most solemn and mutual compact, this engagement of
the old Congress, embodied in the Constitution itself, shall be finally
held to be dependent on an act of the new Congress to give it efficiency, there can be no security for property. It must be remembered, too, that in this compact the new states are placed under concomitant obligations to the United States, to purchasers from them,

418

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

to non-resident prop'rietors of lands, and the citizens of' the United
States, which are worthy of consideration.
"The legislatures of those districts or new states, shall never inter
fere with the primary disposal of the soil by the United States, in
Congress assembled, nor with any regulations Congress may find
necessary for securing the title in such soil to the bona fide purchasers. No tax shall be imposed on lands, the property of the
United States; and in no case shall non-resident proprietors be
taxed higher than those residents. The navigable waters leading
into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be common bhighways, and forever free as
well to the inhabitants of the said territory as to the citizens of the
United States, &c., or those, of any other states that may be admitted
or duty therefor."
-impost,
into the confederacy, without any tax,
1 Laws, 479, 480.
Congress cannot expect that this compact will be held sacred by
the new states, if the reciprocal engagements of the United States
cease to be faithfully performed ; and it may be found that the protection and maintenance of the rights of private property in the disputed territory, may conduce more to the honour and interest of the
United States than a contrary couyse, which, in mny opinion, will
cause "injury to their fame and hazard to their power."
Other considerations arise on a review of the state of things preceding the treaty of 1819, and during the military occupation of this
territory by the United States, which deeply concern them in their
foreign relations.
In 18-, the minister of Great Britain, in behalf of her ally, called
upon this government to explain the reason why, the United States
had incorporated the territory west of the Perdido into the Union,
after it had been declared in the President's proclamation that it
was still held by the United States as "a subject of fair, friendly negotiation and adjustment, (3 State Papers, For. Aft. 400,)-a question
of sufficient difficulty to answer, when applied to the proclamation
alone. But this difficulty would have become the greater, had the
confidential message of the President, and the consequent and similtaneous secret resolution and acts of 1811 and 18i3 then been publicly disclosed; whereby the law-making, war-making power of
the Unitpd States, in authorizing the forcible occupation of the territory, by an act of war, had solemnly renewed the pledges of the President, as well in relation to the territorial- rights of Spain) as the
private prooertyt of her grantees.
And if, when this fair and friendly negotiation and adjustment
was finally closed by the ratification of the treaty in 1821, the United
States had announced to Spain that it did not relate to the territory
west of the Perdido; that it belonged to them by the treaty of 1803,
and was held solely in virtue thereof; that any cession by the treaty
of, 1819 was disclaimed, and that the United States disavowed any
obligation to confirm any grants of land made by Spain after 180i ;

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

419

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs v8. Kibb.)

that they remained null and void under the act of 1804, notwithstanding the treaty, till Congress should please to give them validity;
that the pledges given by the three departments of the government
did not apply to that territory or its private proprietors; that the
ordinance of 1789, the Constitution of the United States, the treaty
of 1803, or the Constitution of the states to which it was annexed,
still left private property dependent on the mere will of Congress.
Such declarations would have been met with a new remonstrarce,
which might have, made the United States desirous that its highest
judicial tribunal should give to the treaty such a construction as
would better comport with the law of nations, the faith of treatigs,
the injunctions of the Constitution,'and those principles which had
been the standard rules of federal jurisprudence under the confederation, and thence to the present time.
Whatever the acquisition of the Floridas may nave cost, in dollars
or acres, it was, as this Court justly remarked, in 3 Peters, 463, richly
repaid by its beneficial consequences, "in addition to vacant lands,"
of which the United States already possessed some hundreds of
millions of acres. Nothing can tend so much to their interest, to
preserve their high position at home and abroad, as for the United
States to consider this treaty to have consummated all the great
objects which it was intended to effect; to extinguish the claim of
Spain by accepting the cession of the territory, charged with all the
titles ceded or recognised under Spain, and in all respects redeeming
to their full measure every previous pledge given by any department
of its government: whereby, in the words of the first article, "there
shall be a firm and inviolable peace, and sincere friendship, between
the United States and their citizens and his Catholic Majesty, his
successors and subjects, without exception of persons and places ;"
and in the preamble to the ninth-' with the object of putting an
end to all the differences'which have existed beftween them, and of
confirming the good understanding' which they wish to be forever
maintained between them," &c.
Such is thd effect of a Treaty of Amity, Settlement, and Limits,
by the universally received principles of the law of nations; such,
to?, is the effect of this treaty, according .to the most solemn and
often repeated adjudications of this Court; and such would be its
effects, if it had been only an ordinary treaty of cession, or compact
of boundary, with similar stipulations fot the protection of private
property.
It requires the application of no new principle, or the liberal
expansion of old ones, to take this treaty to so operate, that all
land which by the lawfully recognised authorities of Spain in the
province had been severed from the royal domain, before January,
1818, was excepted from the cession to the United States by the
second and third articles, and that all grants, &c. remain and stand,
under the eighth article, ratified and confirmed, as valid to the same
extent as they would have been if the territory had remained under
the dominion of Spain.

420

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

The ground in cofitroversy was Osevered in 1809, by a grant or
concession, which, though it may not amount to a complete legal
title, yet the United States "were bound in good, faith by the terms
of the treaty," to confirm such concessions, and has admitted its
obligation to confirm such as had "been fairly made, as was declared
in the first case which arose under the treaty, under a concession for
land in the disputed territory, (12 Wheat. 601;) which principle was
followed in every subsequent case till 1838, save one; and was fully
recognised in Kingsley's case in the clearest terms: "It is admitted,
that in the construction of this article (the eighth) of the treaty, the
United States succeeds to all the equitable obligations which .we are
to suppose would have influenced his Catholic Majesty to secure
his subjects their property, and which would have been applied
by him in the construction of a conditional grant to make it absolute." 12 Peters, 484.
These cases alone are full and decisive authority to rule the present, and when taken in connection with all previous decisions, on
treaties and compacts of every description, between the United
States and foreign. nations, or with the states of this Union, or between state and state, making cessions. of territory, or adjusting
contested boundaries, from 1781 to 1838, their result, when brought
to bear on the treaty of 1819, and the plaintiff's title is decisive.
It has been seen that Foster and Elam is a solitary exception from
the uniform course of adjudication for fifty-seven years; that- the
turning. point of that case has been, and is yet admitted to remain
and stand overruled, (12 Peters, 519;) and that it can be no authority against the plaintiffs, unless by restoring the overruled construction of the eighth article connected with the ratification, but is conclusive in its favour, when the settled and true construction is infused
into that case and the opinion of the Court.
It has also been seen, that the bearing of the decision in Poole vs.
Fleeger, on the treaty of 1819, has been entirely misapprehended,
by overlooking the obvious and settled distinction between treaties
and compacts of cession or boundary, Which admit the original right
of the nation or state to territory, which had before been possessed
by another, without any stipulation for the protection of private property; and those treaties or compacts Which contain no such admission, and do contain such stipulations. That distinction cannot
be more strongly marked than will be found on a comparison of
the compact of 1820, between Kentucky and Tennessee, and the
treaty of 1819 ; and when it is carried into all the cases which have
ever been before this Court, it will be most manifest that their decisions have been uniformly influenced and governed by it, except in
the one case of Garcia vs. Lee, which admits the application of the
treaty to the disputed territory.
If the plaintifsV case stood alone on this treaty, and it continues
to be held to execute its own stipulations, without the aid of a law,
it overthrows all intervening obstacles to the confirmation of the
grant; thot gh the land was within the established bounday of

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

421

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs, Kibbe.]

Louisiana, even admitting that up to 1821 it had remained annulled,
under the act of 1804, or any other subsequent law. By the construction now given to that act, it has no bearing on this case, but
independent of this construction, and the conclusive reasons assigned
by the Court, other considerations deprive it of all effect; for every
subsequent act of Congress, which protects private property, pro
tanto repeals it ; so does every other act which- places the territory,
its inhabitants and proprietors, under the government of the Constitution of the United States, or the states which embrace it; and
from whatever source the rights of property arise, they are as sacred
under the judicial wing of the Union or the state as those of its
other citizens.
In addition to this protection, the law of nations, without any
treaty, stipulation, or constitutional provision, makes private property
inviolable in the cession, relinquishment, conquest, or military occupation of the territory, by some of which means the United States
acquired it, and it matters not by which; the laws, usages, and customs of Spain and the province, remained in force as the only rules
of title and property, the only test of the validity of grants.
In putting themselves in the place of Spain, whether by her consent or force, the United States took on themselves all the obligations imposed by their position, and the state of the disputed territory under, the treaty of 1803 and subsequent laws, and anew
recognised those obligations by the President's proclamation, and
the acts of 1811 and 1813 ; the stipulations of the treaty were only
an affirmance and renewal of these obligatiofns, in the mo re solemn form
of a national compact most solemnly ratified; but which bound the
United States to nothing to which they were not previously bound,
by every guarantee which a government could give to its citizens.
For these reasons, I am clearly of opinion, that without the acts
of 1824 or 1836, the plaintiffs' title was as valid as with their aid ;
those laws only fulfil previous pledges, and I am unwilling to put
my opinion on any grounds which may impair their effect, or which
leave it open to the inference, that a right of property under this,
or any other grant of land west of the Perdido, requires for its confirmation an act which the United States may do or not do, at their
pleasure ; or that any proprietor, who claims by virtue of such
grant, has not the same constitutional rights to judicial proceedings
as, any other citizen of the United States.
With these settled convictions, arising from a full and often renewed consideration of the course of the executive, legislative, and
judicial departments of this government; I must adhere to the opinion thus expressed, till its errors have been made to appear, by a
more correct exposition of the law of nations, the obligations of
treaties, and the decisions of this Court. I look in vain to thb opinion in Foster and Elam, for light on these subjects, there is a profound silence as to the law of nations, or former adjudications; the
same silence is observed in Garcia vs. Lee, which rests exclusively
on Foster and Elam, and Poole vs. Fleeger, unless it was intended
VOL. XIV.-2 N

422

SUPREME CQOURT
E[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs

t&. Kibbe.]

to invoke the principles of Arredondo and Percheman, in support
of the judgment then given, which were the only other cases refer.
red to in the opinion, and so far from supporting it, are in the most
direct hostility to it.
The opinion in Arredondo was delivered after the appeal by the
Spanish minister from the decision in Foster and Elam; the Opinion
in Percheman was an answer to the appeal by the Secretary of
State, from some misapprehensions- of the opinion in Arredondo.
This double appeal was most fully met by the opinion in Percheman, in language which vindicated the honour and interest of the
United States, and left this Court no longer exposed to the imputation of being the only department of the government which presented
any obstacle to the execution of, the treaty as mutually understood.
To these opinions I must adhere, till their principles have been
most deliberately reconsidered, and their fallacy exposed; if the laws
of nations, as there declared, are not correctly stated, there must be
some future adjudication by this Court, defining them with more
accuracy, illustrating them with more truth, and more correctly applying their principles to the treaties of 1803 and 1819.
Mr. Justice BARBour, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion just delivered in this case; and will very
briefly state the reasons. It is a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Alabama, affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court of Baldwin county of that state, in favour of the defendant in error.
The error alleged is, that the Circuit Court, whose judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court, misconstrued the act of Congress,
entitled "an act granting certain lots of ground to the corporation
of the city of Mobile, and to certain individuals of said city,"
passed the 26th May, 1824; in the charge which it gave to the jury,
at the trial, as stated in the bill of exceptions in the record.
Before I state the charge, it will be necessary with a view to understand its bearing, to state the material facts appearing in the bill
of exceptions to have been proven, and uoon which the charge
was founded.
Pollard's heirs, at the trial, to maintain the issue on their part,
gave in evidence a concession for the lot in question from the
Spanish authorities, dated 12th of December, 1809, but which had
been reported against, and rejected by the commissioners of the
United States, appointed to investigate and report upon such claims;
because of the want of improvement and occupancy. They then
gave in evidence a patent dated 14th of March, 1837, issued by
virtue of an act of Congress, passed the 2d July, 1836, entitled an
act for the relief of William Pollard's heirs; the patent embraced the
lot in questioi.
The defendant then gave in evidence, a Spanish grant, dated the
9th of June, 1802, to John Forbes and Company, for a lot of ground,
eighty feet front, on Royal street, with a depth of three hundred
and four feet to the east, and bounded on the south by Government

JANUARY TERM, 1,840.

423

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe:]

street; which grant was recognised and confirmed by an act of
Congress.
It was proven that the lot in question is east of Water street, and
immediately infront of the lot conveyed by the abovc-mentioned
grant, to John Forbes and Company, and only separated from it by
Water street. It was proven, that previously to the year 1819, and
until filled up, as hereafter stated, the lot in question was, at ordinary high tide, covered with water, and mainly so, at all stages
of the water; that the ordinary high water flowed from the east to
about the middle of what is now Water street, between the lot in
question, and that embraced in the grant to John Forbes and Company. John Forbes and Company had been in possession of the
lot contained in their grant, since the year 1802 ; and it was known
under the Spanish government as a water lot; no lots at that time
existing between it and the water.
In the year 1823, no one being in possession, and the lot in question being under water, a certain Curtis Lewis, without any title or
claim, took possession of it, and filled it up east of Water street,
filling up north of Government street, and at the corner of same
and Water'street; that Lewis remained a few months in possession,
when he was ousted by one of the firm of John Forbes and Company, who erected a smith's shop thereon, and they were then turned
out by said Lewis, by legal process, who then retained possession
until he conveyed it. When Lewis took possession, Water street
at that place could be passed by carts, and was common.
The defendant connected himself, in title, to the lot in question,
by means of conveyances, with John Forbes and Company, with
Curtis Lewis, and the mayor and aldermen of Mobile. It was admitted that the lot in question lies between Church street, and North
Boundary street.
On this state of facts, the Court charged the jury, that if the lot
conveyed as above to John Forbes and Company, by the deed
aforesaid, was known as a ivater lot under the Spanish government; and if the lot in question had been improved at and previous
to the 26th of May, 1824, and was east of Water street and immediately in front of the lot so conveyed to John Forbes & Company;
then the lot in question, passed by the act of Congress of 26th May,
1824, to those at that time owning and occupying, so as above conveyed to John Forbes and Company; and that it was immaterial
who made the improvements on the lot on the east side of Water
street, being the one in question: that by the aforesaid act of Congress, the proprietor of the lot on the west side of Water street,
known as above, that is, as a water lot, under the Spanish government, was entitled to the lot on the east side of it.
Whether this charge was correct or not, depends upon the construction of the act of 1824: and I now proceed to show, that it is,
as I think, precisely in accordance with the true construction of that
act, nay, that it is almost the very echo of it. The second sectiorl
provides, "that all the right and claim of the United States to so

424

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. KMbbe.]

many of the lots of ground east of Water street, and between
Church street and North Boundary street, now known as water
lots, as are situated between the channel of the river, and the front
of the lots known under the Spanish government as water lots, in
the said city of Mobile, whereon improvements have been made,
be, and the same are hereby vested in the several proprietors and
occupants of each of the lots, heretofore fronting on the river Mobile, except," &c. I will at present pause here, and examine the
meaning of this section, independently of the exception; I will
afterwards examine the operation of that. Now the questions are,
who were the grantees, and what the things granted by this section?
And first, who were the grantees? They were the proprietors and
occupants of the lots, heretofore fronting on the river Mobile. It
appears from the record, that the lots on the western side of Water
street, were the lots heretofore fronting on the river Mobile, and
that these were known under the Spanish government as water lots.
There were no lots at that time existing between themA and the
water. The grantees, then contemplated by the act of Congress,
were those persons who owned lots known as water lots under the
Spanish government; because those were they which heretofore
fronted on the river Mobile: and the record, as I have said, fixes
their locality on the western side of Water street.
Next let us inquire, what were the things granted ? These were
the lots east of Water street, and between Church and North Boundary street, now known as water lots, and situated between the
channel of the river and the front of the lots, known under the
Spanish government as water lots, whereon improvements have
been made.
It appears that the lot in question answers this description, as to
locality in every paiticular; that improvements had been made
upon it, and that it was in front of the lot owned by John Forbes
and Company, which lay on the western side of Water street, and
which originally fronted on Mobile river, reaching to it; and was
known under the Spanish government as a water lot.. If we now
apply the charge of the Court to this state of facts, we shall see
that it accords with the language of the law, with extraordinary
precision. The jury were told, hypothetically, that if the lot conveyed to John Forbes and Company was known as a water lot,
under the Spanish government, which hypothesis is proven to be a
fact by the record; and if the lot in question had been improved,
previously to the 26th of May, 1824, and this fact also clearly
appears from the record; and was east of Water street, and immediately in front of the lot of John Forbes and Company, and this
fact, too, as clearly appears from the record; then, that the lot in
question passed by the act of Congress of May 1824, to those at
that time owning and occupying the lot conveyed to John Forbes
and Company.
I repeat, that this charge so fully accords with the law, that it
may almost be said to be an echo of its language. I have said that

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

425

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

all the facts which were put hypothetically to the jury, were proven

by the record; but it was not at all necessary that this should have
been done. When we are examining the correctness of a charge
given to a jury, that if a given state of facts existed, a particular
legal result would follow, we must assume the existence of the
facts; because the charge only instructs the jury that such is the
law, if the facts exist, of which they are to judge;. and if the facts
do not exist, then the charge, by its very terms, does not apply.
But the Court told the jury, that it was immaterial by whom the
improvements were made. I cannot doubt the correctness of this
part of the charge: in this, too, the Court echoed the very language of the act of Congress, "whereon improvements have been
made." Now, as the law itself does not say by whom the improvements have been made, but only that they must have been
made; if the Court had said,.that they must have been made by
any particular person, they would have put another condition into
the law, and have required what it did not require. It is said,
however, that the law could not have contemplated giving to one
man the benefit of improvements made by another. If such could
even be supposed to be the proper construction, the facts in the
record, would meet it; because it appears, that Forbes and Company did make an improvement on the lot in question, as also did
Curtis Lewis, under whom the defendant claims. But the law, to
my mind, clearly does not contemplate giving the new water lot to
a person, because he made improveqients on it; if it had so intended, it would have been so said: but its purpose and its plain
language is, that where the new water lot is improved, it shall pass
to the owner of the old water lot. The policy of this is obvious.
The old water lot originally went to the water; the new water lot
did not then exist, having since come into existence; the purpose of
the statute was to place the owner of the old water lot in his original position, that of still going to the water, which would be
effected by giving him the new water lot, without inquiring by
whom it was improved.
But it is supposed that the claim of Pollard's heirs comes within
the benefit of the exception, in this section, which, so far as it respects this case, is in these words, "Except where the Spanish
government has made a new grant or order of survey for the same,
during the time at which they had the power to grant the same;
in which case, the right and claim of the United States, shall be,
and is hereby, vested in the person to whom such grant or order
of survey was made, or in his legal representatives."
It will be observed, that this exception only extends to such
grants or orders of survey, as were made by the Spanish government when they had power to make the same. The grant from
the Spanish government to Pollard, which is supposed to be within
the benefit of this exception, bears date in 1809; if at that time
the Spanish government had not power to make the grant, then the
exception, by its very terms, does not embrace the case.
2 NZ

54

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.1

Now this Court solemnly decided in Foster ana Elam vs. Neilson,
2 Peters, 254, and again in Garcia vs. Lee, 12 Peters, 511, that in
1809, the date of Pollard's grant, the Spanish government had not
the power to make grants in the territory of which the lot in question was a part; and that all such as were made after the treaty of
St. Ildefonso were void.
Consistently with these decisions, I think, that at the date of Pol
lard's grant, the Spanish government had not the power to make it;
and it follows, that it is not within the benefit of the exception.
Some reliance seemed to be placed upon the proviso to this section,
which is in these words: "Provided, that nothing in this act con
tained, shall be construed to affect the claim or claims, if any such
there be, of any individual or individuals, or of any body politic or corporate." Now, it is too clear for argument, that this proviso cannot
aid the claim of Pollard's heirs, upon the assumption that they claim
under the exception ; because the object of the proviso is to guard any
possible claim of others against being affected by the grant of Congress; either in the enacting part of the cession, or in the exception.
I have not thought it necessary to bring the first section of the act
into the argument, because that only gives to the city of Mobile the
right and claim of the United States to such lots as were not confirmed to individuals, by that or any former act; and as the
second section does confirm the claims to this lot, either, as I think,
to the proprietor of the old water lot, in front of which it lies ; or,
as is argued, to Pollard's heirs, as holding a Spanish grant, nothing
passed to the city of Mobile, wrhichsoever construction shall prevail;
and I will add, that if any thing did pass to the city of Mobile, it
appears by the record, that their title or claim was vested in the defendant.
Finally, it was argued, that the title of Pollard's heirs was perfected by the act of Congress of July, 1836, which confirmed to them
the lot in question by metes and bounds: but the decisive answer
to that is, that that act contains a proviso, that it should only operate as a relinquishment, on the part of the United States, of all
their right and claim to the lot, and should not interfere with or
affect the claim or claims of third persons. Now, if, as I clearly
think, the right of the United States had passed by the:act of
1824, to the owner of the old water lot, in front of which the one
in question lay, then the United States had no right or claim to relinquish by the act of 1836. And the same consequence precisely
would follow, if, as the plaintiffs contend, the right of the United
States passed to them by virtue of the exception in the act of 1824.
So that whatsoever may be the construction of the enacting part of
that act, or of the exception, it would equally follow, that there was
no claim or title in the United States, which the act of 1896 could
operate to conve or relinquish.
For these reasons, I am clearly of opinion that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Alabama is correct, and ought to be affirmed.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

427

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

Mr. Justice CATROw, dissenting.

The town of Mobile was first settled and governed by France;
and by the treaty of 1763, ceded to Great Britain, and attached to
Florida: by the treaty of 1783, Florida was ceded by Great Britain
to Spain. Florida proper, previous to the treaty of 1763, extended
to the river Perdido, and only included the cauntry east of it; which
river was the boundary between France and Spain, from the first
settlement of the country up to 1763. 2 Peters, 300. After 1783,
and up to 1800, Spain owned Florida and Louisiana; that power
then retroceded to France Louisiana to the same extent it had
when France owned it ; that is, all west of the Perdido; disregarding the fact that Great Britain had attached the country west of the
Perdido to Florida, and that for the purposes of government, Spain,
after 1783, had continued to recognise and govern as Florida, all
the country east of the Mississippi, north of the Iberville, and
south of our boundary in the 300 of latitude. But that the country
passed to France as far east as the Perdido, by the treaty of St. Ildefonso of 1800, is the established doctrine of this government, and
which is fully recognised by this Court. And by the treaty of cession of 1803, the French Republic ceded Louisiana to the United
States, in full sovereignty, with "all public lots and squares, vacant
lands, and all public buildings, fortifications, barracks, and other
edifices, which are not private property."
Owing to the confusion growing out of the circumstance, that
Great Britain, after 1763, had attached the country west of the Perdido to Florida, and Spain had, after 1783, treated and governed it
as part of Florida; it was assumed by Spain, that no part'of the province passed to France by the treaty of 1800, or to the United
States, by the cession of France of 1803. And Spain, for some
'nine years after the cession, continued to hold and govern the country, and until we took forcible possession of it.
All title to the vacant lots and squares in the town of Mobile,
having been vested in France, by the treaty of 1800, and in the
United States, by the cession of 1803, no interest in the soil after-wards remained in the king and government of Spain ; and all
attempts to grant lands by-that power were merely void. Such is
the settled doctrine of this Court, as holden in Foster and Elam vs.
Neilson, 2 Peters, and re-affirmed in Garcia vs. Lee, 12 Peters. So
Congress has uniformly, from 1804, regarded, our title, and the assumptions of Spain. 2 Peters, 304.
The rapid growth and extensive commerce of the city of Mobile,
in 1824, rendered it expedient that the city should improve its facilities in regard to navigation ; the bay in its front being shallow, extensive wharves and other improvements were indispensable. To
tccommodate the city, Congress passed an act (ch. 415) of that
year, vesting in the mayor and aldermen, and their successors, "for
the sole use and benefit of the city, forever, the Hospital and Bakehouse lots ; and also all the right and- claim of the United States to
all the lots not sold or confirmed to individuals, either by that act, or

428

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.)

any former act of Congress, and to which no equitable title existed
in favour of any individual, under that act, or 'any former act."
The grant to extend to all public lots lying in front of the city, and
between high-water mark and the channel of the river, and between
Church and North Boundary streets. Such is the first seetion of the
act; and if nothing more was found in it, there can be no doubt
the city took the title to the square, a part of which is in controversy; as the only exceptions in favour of outstanding claims are
those conferred by acts of Congress.
The plaintiffs' claim is founded on a concession made by the
Spanish Governor of Florida, in 1809; and was a permit to William
Pollard, to use and occupy, for the purpose of depositing lumber
from his sawmill, the space between Forbes and Company's canal
and the king's wharf. As the concession made in 1809 was wholly
void, it is useless to inquire into its character; or the nature of the
title intended to be conferred.
But it is insisted the claim is excepted from the first section of
the act of 1824, by the second; which provides, that in case of any
lot, &c., where the " Spanish government has made a new grant or
order of survey for the same, during the time at which they had
the power to grant the same; in which case, the right and claim of
the United States shall be, and is hereby, vested in t ie person to
whom such alienation, grant, or order of survey was made; or in
his legal representatives."
The concession of 1809 was made in the face of the act of 1804,
(ch. 38, sec. 14. 2 Story's Laws, 939,) pronouncing all grants by
the Spanish authorities after the cession, void ; Spain certainly had
no power to make it, and therefore the act of 1824 does not cover
the claim. If it had, a title in fee by force of that act would have
vested in Pollard's heirs; and the special act of 1836, in their favour,
been superfluous. But neither the parties interested, nor Congress,
seem to have supposed the title confirmed by the act of 1824.
The statute also provides, that where improvements had been
made on the new water lots east of Water street, that then the title
should vest in the proprietor of the old water lot opposite, on the
west side of said street ; and on this provision, the charge of the
Court below turned ; that Court holding the title to the part of the
premises in controversy to have vested in Forbes and Company,
because it was improved at the date of the act of 1824; and that
it was immaterial by whom the improvement had been made.
That the improvements referred to by the act must have existed
on the new and eastern water lots, is, as I think, free from dooibt :
but that Forbes and Company could acqfiire a benefit from the ,improvement made by Lewis is somewhat doubtful: as, however, no
critical construction of the act on this point is called for, none has
been made. The act of 1824 passed the title to the property covered
by the patent issued by virtue of the act of 1836, unless it was excepted from the first act, and this is the only question in the cause :
for as the plaintiff must recover by the strength of his own title, it

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

429

[Lessee of Pollard's Heirs vs. Kibbe.]

is immaterial whether-the city of Mobile, or Forbes and Company,
took by the act of 1824. The charge of the Court, in substance,
held the patent on which the lessors rely to be void. On the admitted facts, I think it clearly was so; and that the reasons for the
judgment, if proper on the whole case, are immaterial.
Such is the uniform rule in actions of ejectment, where a charge
of an inferior Court is re-examined on a writ of error.
The defendant, however, shows himself clothed with the titles of
he city of Mobile, of Forbes and Company, and of Lewis, on
vhich, the Court pronounced him to have the better right; and, for
he reasons above stated, I think, correctly.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
rom the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged
by this Court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Supreme
Court, that such further proceedings may be had therein as to law
and justice may appertain.

