JANUARY TERM, 1840.

FRANCIS WEST AND 0THERS, APPELLANTS, VS. WALTER BRASHEAR,
APPELLEE'.
The mandate of the Supreme Court to ihe Circuit Court must be its guide in executing the
judgment or decree on which it issued. The mandate is the judgmeit of the Supreme
Court, transmitted to the Circuit Court; and where the direction contained in it is precise
and unambiguous, it is the duty of the Circuit Court to carry it int6 execution, and not
to look elsewhere for authority to change its meaning. But when the Circuit Court are
referred to testimony to ascertain the amount to be decreed, and are authorized to take
more evidence on the point, it may sometimes happen, that there will be some uncertainty
and ambiguity in the mandate; and in such a case, the Court below have unquestionably the right to resort to the opinion of the Supreme Court,,delivered at the time of the
decree, in order to assist them in expounding it.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
This case was before the Court on appeals from both the parties, and the, proceedings and decision on the case are reported in
608.
7 Peters,
The proceedings
in the Circuit Court of Kentucky, subsequent to
the mandate issued from the Supreme Court, were the only matters
in controversy on this appea,1.
The mandate of the Supreme Court was as follows: "Whereas,
lately in, the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Kentucky, before you or some of you, in a cause between Walter
Brasbear, complainant, and Francis West, and John Lapsley, and
Samuel Mifflin, and Henry Nixon, trustees of said West, and Thomas
M. Willing and Henry Nixon,executors of John Nixon, deceased, defendants in Chancery, the decree of the said Circuit Court was in the
following words, to wit: ' It is the opinion of the Court, that the
complainant is in equity entitled to a credit or set-off against the
judgments at law obtained against him in the name of West, for
the sum of four thousand and eleven dollars and sixty-eight cents,
being the amount of the judgment obtained against the complainant, as
special bail for West, by George Anderson; but the complainant is not
entitled to any of the other credits or'set-offs claimed in his bill, and
amended bill. It is therefore decreed and ordered, that the said
four thousand and eleven dollars and sixty-eight cents, or so much
thereof as will extinguish the same, shall be, and is hereby, credited
and set off as payment on the 22d of October, 1810, against the
judgment at law, not against or not covered by the injunction bond;
and that the residue of the said four thousand and eleven dollamand
sixty-eight cents, if any, and the costs of the complainant in this suit,
shall be, and is hereby, credited and set cff against so much of the
other judgment at law; the costs to be credited as of this day: and
the clerk is hereby directed to tax the costs of this suit, and make
the necessary calculations, and enter said credits accordingly ; and

SUPREME COURT.
[West et al. vs. Brashear.]

it. is further decreed and ordered, that as to the residue of the said
judgments'or judgment, as the case may be, after entering and giving
the credits as- aforesaid, the complainant's injunction shall be, and
the same is hereby dissolved, with tea per centum damages upon
the amount of such residue at the time the injunction was granted,
and that the complainants may proceed to recover by execution at
law the said residue and also the damages aforesaid, as by the inspection of the transcript of the record of the said Circuit Court,
which was brought into the Supreme Court of the United States by
virtue of an appeal, agrecably.to an act of Congress in such cases
made and provided, fully and at large appears.'
"And whereas, at the present term of January, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, the said cause
came on to be heard before the said Supreme Court on the said transcript of the record, and was argued by counsel, on consideration
'whereof this Court was of opinion that there is error in the decree
of the said Circuit Court in allowing to the said Walter Brashear
eredi.t foT the money paid by him as special bail for, Francis West,
at the suit of George Anderson, and also in r.efusing to allow the
said Walter Brashear credit for the value of. the ginseng shipped
and. sold by the said James Latimer, with the assent of the said assignees of Francis West, after the same had been attached in his
hand s by the said assignees: It is therefore decreed and ordered
that the decree pronounced in this cause by the.Court of the United
States, for the seventh circuit, in the District of Kentucky, be reversed, and annulled, and that the cause be remanded to that Court,
with instructions- to perpetuate the injunction as to the sum which
shall be equal to the amount of the ginseng shipped and sold by the
said James Latimer, after the attachment sued out by Francis West
for the use of Samuel Mifflin, John Lapsley, and. Henry Nixon,
assignees for the benefit of his creditors, was levied, to dismiss the
bill as to the residue ; 6nd it is further ordered that the parties pay
their own costs in this Court.
"You, therefore, are hereby commanded, that such further proceedings be had in said -cause,in conformity with -the opinion and
decree of this Court, as, according to right and justice, and the laws
of the United States, ought to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding."
The cause being before the Circuit Court on the mandate, in
November, 1833, it Was referred to a commissioner to state the
accounts between the parties in conformity thereto; and general
leave was also given to take the deposition. of James Latimer.
Under this order of the Court, the commissioner made a report, and
stated that he gave credit to Brashear, under date of May 11, 1809,
for two thousand eight. hundred and seventy-three dollars and fifty
cents, the amount of ginseng shipped by Latimer and Redwood.
On exceptions filed to this repoi, it was set aside by the Court, on
account of a sufficient sum not having been allowed for the, ginseng
shipped by Latimer, after a foreign attachment, sued out by West,

JANUARY TERM, '1840.

53

[West et a. vs. Brashear.]

had been levied on the ginseng in the hands of Latimer. The commissioner, to whom it was recommitted, was instructed to examine
and ascertain all the ginseng shipped and sold by Latimer, after the
attachment, and all the charges on the same. The commissioner
reported the value of the ginseng was five thousand five hundred
and ninety-nine dollars and fifty cents, and the charges amounting
to three hundred and sixty-one dollars and sixty cents.
Exceptions were filed to this report, which were overruled; and
the Circuit Court gave a decree in favour of Walter Brashear in conformity with the same. The complainants prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the appellants; and by
Mr. Crittenden, for the appellees.
For the appellants, Mr. Coxe contended that the mandate of this
Court did not authorize the allowance of the *hole amount of the
ginseng belonging to Brashear, which had been shipped to Canton
by Mr. Latimer; but only that part of it shipped after the attachment laid by the appellants. The whole value of it is allowed in
the decree of the Circuit Court.
Mr. Crittenden claimed that by a true interpretation of the mandate, the sum. allowed in the decree was the amount reported by
the commissioner.
The counsel for both parties supported their allegations by a reference to the report of the case in 7 Peters, and to the proceedings of
the Circuit Court under the mandate; which are referred to in the
opinion of the Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case was formerly before :the Court, and was then fully con,
sidered and decided, and is reported in 7 Peters, 608. Upon that
occasion the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed; and a man.date was issued from this Court, directing the Circuit Court to disallow certain credits which had been given to Walter Brashear, the
present appellee, and to allow him a credit equal to the amount of
-certain ginseng, shipped and sold by James Latimer, after attachments had been laid in his hands, by Francis West the present appellant, and others.
Brashear resided in Kentucky, and Latimer was his consignee
and agent in Philadelphia, and had received from him, on consignment, a large quantity of ginseng; and had also made advances for
him to a considerable amount, but not equal to the value of the
consignment. Francis West was a creditox of Brashear's, and,
together with other creditors, laid attachments on his property and
credits, in the, hands. of Latimer i and these were a part of the
matters in controversy in the former suit. The mandate of this
Court will be found in page 624 of the report above mentioned,
E2

54

SUPREME COURT.
[West et al. vs. Brashear.]

and the controversy in this case turns upon the construction of that
mandate.
There is no contest here in relation to the items which this Court
directed to be disallowed. But a dispute arose in the- Circuit Court
as to the amount of the sum directed to be credited to Brashear,
and some further testimony was taken on that point, in the proceedings under the mandate. It finally appeared, that the value
of the ginseng shipped and sold by Latimer, after the attachments
.were laid in his hands, amounted to five thousand five hundred and
ninety-nine dollars and ninety cents; and for this sum Brashear
was credited by the decree of the Circuit Court.
The appellants object to this decree, and insist, that although a
strict construction of the mandate might justify the credit, yet the
mandate must be taken in connection with the opinion pronounced
at the same time; and when thus expounded, it will riot, as they
contend, warrant the decree.
The point of the appellant's objection consists in this: that
although the ginseng shipped and sold by Latimer, after the attachments were laid in his hands, amounted to the sum decreed
by the Court below, yet that a part of it had before been taken by
Latimer at a stipulated price, agreed on between him and Brashear;
and that the value of the quantity actually owned by Brashear, and
shipped and sold as aforesaid, amounted only to the sum of two
thousand seven hundred and fifty-three' dollars and eighty cents;
and that the residue so shipped and sold was owned by Latimer as
above mentioned. And the appellants contend, that it is apparent
from the opinion pronounced by this Court, when the case was formerly before them,that the imputed negligence and misconduct which
in the judgment of the Court made them liable to Brashear, was
confined to the ginseng seized by the attachment, and did not extend
to the money due from Latimer for the quantity taken by him ,as
above mentioned, although that money 'was also subsequently lost by
Latimer's insolvency; and they contend, that the credit allowed
under the mandate ought to have been two thousand seven hundred and fifty-three dollars and thirty cents, and that the Court
erred in allowing more.
There has been some discuSrion at the bar as to the principles by
which a Circuit Court of the United States is to be governed when
executing a mandate from the Supreme Court. Undoubtedly the
mandate must be its guide. It is the judgment of thip Court transmitted to the Circuit Court. And when the direction contained in
the mandate is- precise and unambiguous, it is the duty of the Circuit Court to carry it into execution, and not to look elsewhere for
authority to change its meaning. But when, as in this cse, the
Circuit Court are referred to testimony to ascertain the amount to
be decreed, and are authorized to take new evidence on the point,
it may somtimes happen that there will be somre uncertainty and
ambiguity in the mandate; and in such a case, the Court below have
unquestionably the right to-resort to the opinion delivered at the

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

55

[West et aL vs. Brashear.]

time, in ordet to assist them in expounding it. And if, in this case
it had appeared from the opinion delivered, that in speaking of the
ginseng shipped and sold by Latimer, the Court intended to confine
the credit to the value of that portion of it owned by Brashear at
the time of the shipment, and to exclude that alleged to have been
taken by Latimer, it would have been the duty of the Circuit Court
to execute'the mandate in conformity with'this intention.
But there is no discrepancy between the mandate, and the opinion
pronounced at the time. It is evident that the Court were under
the impression that all of the ginseng taken by 'Latimer to pay his
own debt, had been shipped before the attachments were laid. This
appears from a paragraph in the opinion of the Court, in page 610
of the reported case. In stating the facts of the case, as in the
judgment of the Court they were proved by the testimony, the
Chief Justice who delivered the opinion, says:. Early in the year
1809, he (Latimer) took a large part of the ginseng to himself, as
purchaser at six months' credit, which he shipped on his own account to China in March of' that year. In the following May he
shipped the residue on account of himself and William Redwood."
This latter shipment was made after the attachments were levied,
and the Court were manifestly of the opinion that the value of the
whole parcel thus shipped 'was liable in Latimer's hands to the
attaching creditors. And believing from the testimony, that it was
lost by the liegligence and misconduct of these creditors, and the
subsequent insolvency of Iatimer, they directed Brashear to be
credited Vith the whole amount thus shipped. The intention of
the Court, therefore, as gathered from the opinion, is in unison with
the directipn contained in the mandate ; and, in our judgment, the
Circuit Court have rightly expounded it. The decree of the Court
below is affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed,
with costs.

