JANUARY TERM, 1840.

33

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. GABRIEL PAUL, ExECUTOR OF EDWARD COURSAULT, DECEASED.

ELIAS KANE,

Letters testamentary to the estate of Edward Coursault, a merchant, who had died at Baltimore, were granted to Gabriel Paul, one of the executors named in the will. The other
executor, Aglae Coursault, the wife of Edward Coursault, did not qualify as executrix,
nor did she renounce the execution of the will. Afterwards, on the application of Aglae
Coursault, stating she was executrix of Edward Coursault, accompanied with a power of
attorney, given to her by Gabriel Paul, the qualified executor, who had removed to Missouri, the commissioners under the treaty of indemnity with France, awarded to the
estate of Edward Coursault, a sum of money, for the seizure ard confiscation of the Good
Friends and cargo, by the French government. During the pendency of the claim before the commissioners, Aglae Coursault died ; and letters of administration, with the
will annexed, were, on the oath of Thomas Dunlap, that the widow and executrix of Edward Coursault was dead, granted by the Orphans Court of the county of Washington, in the District of'Columbia, to the plaintiff in error, Elias Kane, a resident in
Washington. Tie sum awarded by the commissioners was paid to Elias Kane, by the
government of the United States. Gabriel Paul, the executor of Edward Coursault,
brought an action against Elias Kane, for the money paid to him. Held : That he was
entitled to recover the same. The letters testamentary granted in Maryland, entitled the
executor of Edward Coursault to recover, withaut his having the letters of administration granted by the Orphans Court of Washington repealed or revoked.
At conmon law, the appointment of an executor vests the whole personal estate in the
person appointed e' ecutor, which he holds as trustee for the purposes of the will, and he
holds the legal title in all the chattels of the testator; and, for the purpose of administering
them, is as much the proprietor of them as was the testator. The ordinary cannot transfer those chattels to any other person by granting administration of them.
The act of Congress of the 24th June, 1812, gives to an executor or administrator, appointed
in any state of the United States, or in the territories, a right to recover from any individual within the District of Columbia effects or money belonging to the testator or the intestate, in whatever way the same may have been received, if the law does not permit
him to retain it, on account of some relations borne to the testator or to his executor,
which defeats the rights of the executor or administrator; and letters testamentary or
letters of administration obtained in either of the states or territories of the Union, give
a right to the person having them to receive -and give disharges for such assets, without
suit,
which may be in the hands of am person within the District of Columnia. The
right to receive from the government of the United States, either in the District of Co
lumbia, or in the state where letters have beet. granted, any sum of money which the
government mlay owe to the testator or iotctate at the time of his death, or which may
become due thereafter, or which may accru to the government as truste for a testator
or intestate, in any way or at any time, is given by that act. A bona fide
payment of a
debt to the administrator, which was due to the-estate, is a legal discharge to the debtor,
whether the administration be void or voidable.
The certificate of the Register of Wills, annexed to the proceedings of the Orphans Court
of Maryland, giving letters-testamentary to the executor, shows that the will had been
proved, and that tie letters testamentary had been gratited. This is proof that the persot holding the letters testamentary is executor, as far as the law requires it to be proved,
in aia action of assumpsit upon a cause of action which arose in the time of the testator
or of the executor. On the plea of the general issue in such an action, and even in a
case where that plea raises the question of right or title in ti executor, the certificate of
probate and qualification meets tire requisition. A judicial examination into their validity
can only be gone into upon a plea in abatement, after oyer has been craved and granted ;
and then, upon issue joined, the plaintiff's title, as executor or administrator, may be disputed, by showing any of those causes which make the grant void ab initio, or that the
administration had been revoked.
The declaration in an action by an executor for the recovery of money received by the defendant after the decease of the testator, may- be in the name of the plaintiff, as executor,

5

34

SUPREME COURT.
[Kane vs. Paul.]

or in his own name, without stating that he is executor. The distinction is, that'when
an executor sues on a cause of action which occurred in the lifetime of his testator, he
must declare in the detinet, that is, in his representative capacity only; but when the
cause of action accrues after the death of the testator, if the money when recovered will
be asets, the executor may declare in his representative character, or in his own name.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the. United States for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
Edward Coursault, then a merchant of the ciiy of Philadelphia,
in December, 1809, was, the owner of the brig Good Friends, and
part of her cargo. Both the brig and cargo were seized at Morlaix-, in France,.by order of the French government, and vere confiscated.
In 1825, Edward Coursault died in Baltimore, where he resided
at the time of his decease; and by his will, dated August, 1814, he
appointed Aglae Coursault, his wife, his executrix, and Gabriel Paul
his executor.
On the 27th August, 1814, letters testamentary of the will were
granted in Baltimore to Gabriel Paul. Mrs. Coursault did not qualify, nor did she renounce, as executrix. Some time afterwards,
Gabriel Paul removed to thestate of Missouri.
The claim of the estate of Edward Coursault, for indemnity for
the seizure and confiscation of the brig Good Friends and cargo,
having been provided for by the convention between the United
States and France, concluded at Paris, in July, 1831, Aglae Coursault, styling herself the widow and executrix of the last will and
testament Of Edward Coursault, in January, 1833, presented a memorial to the board of commissioners appointed to carry the convention into effect, claiming indemnity for the seizure and confiscation
of the brig and cargo.
The
Viemorial stated the death of Edward uoursault, the.appointment of the memorialist and Gabriel Paul executors, by his last
will; that letters testamentary were granted to the memorialist
and Gabriel Paul; and the Memorial also states that whatever
amount of said claim may be awarded under said convention, will
belong solely and exclusively to the memorialist, as executor of the
last will and testament of the said Edward Coursault, deceased.
Together with the documents presented to the commissioners,
showing the property of the Good Friends and part of her cargo to
have belonged, at the time of the seizure and confiscation, to Edward Cou rsault, there was a power of attorney from Gabriel Paul,
as "administrator of the estate of Edward Coursault," to Mrs. Aglae
Coursault, authorizing her to present in his name to the commissioners of the United States the claim of' the estate of Edward Coursault, promising to present himself before them as soon as required.
The commissioners awarded the sum of seven thousand eight
hundred and sixty-four dollars, .n favour of the claimant.
On the 27th of March, 1837, an affidavit was made and presented
to the Orphans Court of the county of Washington, in the District

JANUARY TERM, 1840

:5

[Kane v. Pgul.]

of Columbia, stating that Edward Coursault had died in the city of
Baltimore, in 1814, and that Aglae Coursault, his widow and executrix, had died about two years before the making of the affidavit.
On the 29th of March, 1837, the judge of the Orphans Court directed letters of administration, with the wili annexed, to be issued
upon the estate of Edward Coursault, to Elias Kane., Esquire; and
the sum awarded on the claim of Aglae Coursault by the commissioners, was paid at the Treasury of the United States to Mr. Kane,
as the administrator.
Gabriel Paul, in November, 1837, as executor of Edward Coursault, having taken out letters of administration in the District of
Columbia, instituted a suit in the Circuit Court of the county of
Washington against Elias Kane, for the recovery, of the sum. paid
to him by the United States; and at November term, 1838, the
cause was tried, and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the
plaintiff.
At the trial, the defendant in the Circuit Court gave in evidence
an exemplification of the letters of administration granted by the
Orphans Court of the county of Washington; but the Court directed
the jury that they were no bar to the action of the plaintiff. The
defendant excepted to this opinion 6f the Court. And the plaintiff
having offered in evidence the award of the commissioners, the
power of attorney from the plaintiff to Aglae Coursault, (by cdpies
from the State Department,) and his letters testamentary, with a
copy of the will annexed; and having proved that the plaintiff was
then living ; the Court directed the jury that the plaintiff, if the said
evidence was believed, -was entitled to recover the amount received
by the defendant under the award. The defendant excepted to this
direction of the Court., and prosecuted this writ of error.
The cause was argued by Mr. Key, with whom was Mr. Kane,
for the plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Coxe and Mr. Semmes, for
the defendant.
Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the letters of
administration granted to the plaintiff in the District of Columbia,
were not void; and that the instructions of the Circuit Court were
erroneous.
If there had not been special legislation on this subject, no doubt
could be entertained of, the invalidity of the letters of administration
granted to Gabriel Paul, in the District of Columbia; after those
which had been granted to the plaintiff in error. By the general
law, administration is to be granted in the place where the property
of the deceased person is found; and letters testamentary drawing
their authority from a different state or country, have no validity.
9 Wheat. 571. Smith vs. the Union Bank of Georgetonv, 5 Peters,
518. Story's Conflict of Laws, 422. 429-433. 436. 439. 20 Johns,
Rep. 265.
The special legislation by the Act of Congress of 24th June, 1812,
was not intended to make a general change on this subject, It

SUPREME COURT.
[Kane v8. Paul.]

meant only to authorize suit to be brought on foreign letters of administration, or letters of administration granted, out of the District
of Columbia. The Court will lean in favour of this construction of
the act; and by giving it this limitation, will prevent, as far as possible, the infraction of the principle, that the personal estate of. an intestate, or decedent, is to be distributed according to the local law
of the place where it may be.
Nor can the act of Congress of 1812, be construed to take away
the authority to issue letters of administration in this District, when
no administration of the deceased is within the District, and there
are personal effects belonging to the deceased within the same.
The law does not take away this jurisdiction of the Orphans
Court of the countr of Washington to issue letters of administration.
While it authorizes a foreign administrator to come into this District,.
it leaves the authority of the Orphans Court as it existed before the
act. Such a construction of the law would be most unreasonable,
and would produce great difficulties and inconveniences. There is
no power to compel a foreign administrator tb come into this District and collect the assets of the estate. Thus the personal property
of a decedent might be wasted and rost. But to construe the law, as
is contended for by the plaintiff in error, is to give it all the efficiency
requisite, and essential to the purposes of the legislation. The foreign
administrator may institute suits in the District; but over assets
which are in the District, an administrator duly appointed by the
Orphans Court, before the foreign administrator comes here, has full
and exclusive control and authority.
In support of this construction of the act of Congress, the counsel
cited United States vs. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 35. Baldwin C. C. Rep. 316.
Cowper, 391. 6 Dane's Abridgment, 601. 593. Foster's Case, 11
Coke's Rep. 64a.
The power given to an administrator in the District, is to collect
and administer the estate of the intestate according to the lex rei
site. After his appointment he cannot excuse himself for neglecting
to collect the assets of the estate by alleging that there was another
and a foreign administrator: nor would the payment of a debt to a
foreign administrator, by a person in the District, be a bar to the
claim of an administrator appointed here. Suppose an administrator appointed in the District should have brought suits, would they
abate wh6.( a foreign administrator comes here? It is admitted
that the act of Congress of 1812, may be interpreted to give concurrent powers to foreign and dohresti administrators, but not to make
the powers of the foreign administrator exclusive. Story's Conflict
of Laws, 431.
There is another view of this question. This is not a debt which
was due to the intestate in his lifetime. It is money of the estate
which came into this District in 1827; and the letters testamentary,
granted in Baltimore, were issued to Gabriel Paul, in 1814. The
action in the Circuit Court was not for money due to the testator,
but due to the executor of Coursault. The action is not, therefore,

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

37

[Kane vs. Paul.J

authorized by he act of Congress, as it authorized suits by the representative of' a decedent; -but this is a suit in his own right by the
executor.
A suit may be brought by an administrator for the .-ecovery of a
debt due to him, contracted with'him in his capacity of administrator, after the decease of his intestate. 4 Mason C. C. Rep. 34. But the
act of Congress gives no power to sue, except in cases where action
can be brought on letters of administration for debts to, or on contracts
with, the intestate. It has no application to suits which a party
might institute without letters of administration,; such as suits for
claims by the administrator on debts due on contracts or obligations
which have arisen aftdr the decease of the party represented by him.
An. 'objection lies to the original letters testamentary granted in
Baltimore to Gabriel Paul. The will of Edward Coursault ap
pointed two executprs, and yet without 'any renunciation by Aglae
Coursault, the letters testamentary are issued to Gabriel Paul alone.
This is contrary to the testamentary act of February, 1777; ch. S.
The counsel for the defendant'in error stated, that the application
to the commissioners under the treaty of indemnity with France,
was made by Aglae Coursault acting as executrix of her husband,
and under a power bf attorney from Gabriel Paul, who had regularly proved the will and taken out. letters testamentary. The
award of the commissioners was to the executor; this was regular.
The sum awarded was the property of the estate of Edward Coursault, being an indemnity for the seizure of his property in his lifetime; and the claim for a recompense for this injury passed to the
executors of his will.
Thus'situated, and Aglae Coursault having died, the plaintiff in
error came forward; and disregarding the rights of the defendant
in error, which were his by the letters testamentary, and by the
award of the commissioners under the treaty, he obtained possession of this money under letters of administration granted to him
in the District of Columbia. He did not come forward as a creditor
of the estate of Edward Coursault, but as a stranger, and took pos'session of the fund. This was an illegal interference with the rights
of the executor, and cannot be allowed. The provisions of the act
of Congress on the subject of the claims under the treaty with
France have been violated; rights clearly Vested tdder the law and
by the award of the commissioners have been disregarded.
The fund awarded under the treaty with France was not assets
in the District of Columbia. The claim had been presented on the
part of the representatives of a merchant of Baltimore, for the
seizure of his vessel and cargo; and the United States having received the money from France, were trustees for tlhe claimants to
distribute the same among them. If this fund had any location, it
was in Baltimore; there the United States were bound to pay the
amount awarded to the executor of Edward Coursault. In point' f
factVOL.
the money, was paid in New York, as there it had been kept by
XIV.-D

SUPREME COURT.
[Kane vs. Paul.]

the United States when received from France. All that was required
was the presentation of the award of the commissioners, to the
agents of the United States in New York.
The action in the Circuit Court was properly brought. But if
this was not so, the exception should have been taken by a plea
in abatement. The plea of the general issue admits the right of the
executor to sue. 8 Wheat. 542. 1 Peters, 386. 4 Peters, 500.
Baker vs. Biddle, Baldwin's C. C. Rep. 394. To show the right of the
executor to sue, cited Biddle vs. Wilkins, 1 Peters, 486. 1 Ventris,
535.

1 Mod. 213.

2 Mod. 149.

Hobart, 46.

2 Lord Ray. 701.

1 Williams on Executors, 155. An administration granted, where
there is an executor, is void. 3 Bos. and Pull. 30. Toller on Executors, 120.

8 Cranch, 1.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.

It appears in this case, that Edward Coursault being domiciled
in Baltimore, died there in the year 1814; and that by his will, dated
the 13th August, 1814, he appointed Aglae Coursault, executrix,
and Gabriel Paul, executor.
On the 27th August, 1814, letters testamentary were granted in
Maryland to Gabriel Paul-Paul is still alive. Edward Coursault
being the owner of the brig Good Friends, and part of her cargo,
both were seized and confiscated at Morlaix, in the year 1809, by
the French government.
Paul, the qualified executor of Coursault, by a power of attorney
dated the 18th of October, 1832, he being then a resident of Missouri, empowered Aglae Coursault to present a memorial in his
name to the board of commissioners, appointed under the act of
Congress to carry into effect the convention between the United
States and his majesty the king. of the French, concluded at Paris,
on the 4th day of July, 1831, for the claim of the testator to indemnity on account of the confiscation of the Good Friends, and her
cargo; stating in his power, that he would present himself before
the board of commissioners as soon a5 he might be required. Under
this power, Aglae Coursault memorialized the commissioners; in
which memorial, after reciting the seizure and confiscation of the
Good Friends and her cargo, what the cargo was, the value of the
vessel and her freight, and that Edward Coursault had incurred great
expense in defending his rights; it is said, letters testamentary were
granted to herself and Gabriel Paul, and that whatever sum may
be awarded upon the claim, it would belong exclusively to herself.
The commissioners made an award in favour of the claim.
After this award was made, Kane, the appellant, applied to the
Orphans Court of the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia, for letters of administration upon- the estate of Edward
Coursault; and upon an affidavit of Thomas Dunlap, stating that
the widow and executrix, Aglae Coursault, was dead, an order was
made to issue letters of administration to the appellant, upon the
estate of Edward Coursault; and letters of administration de boniF

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

39

[Kane vs. PauL]

non, with the will annexed, were given to him, he having entered
into bond with Thomas Dunlap and John K. Kane, as securities for
the faithful performance of his' duties.
Kane applied for, and received from the proper department of the
government, a part of the sum awarded by the commissioners upon
the claim of Fdlvard Coursault:- and this suit was brought by Gabriel Paul, the Vexecutor, to recover from Kane the money he received, in his character of administrator de bonis non, cum testamento annexo.
The declaration contains three counts, in each of which the plaintiff claims as executor. The defendant pleaded non assumpsit; and
issue being joined, a jury was called to try the issue. On the trial,
besides other evidence, the plaintiff produced his letters testamentary,
granted in 1814, in Maryland; and the defendant offered in evidence
an exemplification')of the letters of administration grantedto him by
the Orphans Court of Washington county, District of Columbia, in
1837.

The Court charged the jury, that the letters Of administration
offered by the defendant, were no bar to the plaintiff's action; but
that the plaintiff's letters testamentary and the other evidence, if
believed by the jury, entitled him to recover the amount the defendant had received upon the award of the commissioners, according to the certificate of that amount, given by John H. Houston, a
clerk in the fifth auditor's office. The jury gave a verdict in favour
of the plaintiff; the defendatit having first excepted tQ the instructions of the Court.
The point then made by this'exception to the, instruction of the
Court is, do the letters testamentary, obtained by the plaintiff in
Maryland, prevail over the letters of administration de bonis non,
cur testamento antiexo, given to the defendant in the District of
Columbia, so as to entitle the former to recover from the latter, the
money received by him in such character, without a repeal or revocation of such letters?
The answer to that question will depend upon the legal character
'of the letters granted to the defendant.
Are they void or voidable?
In Com. Dig. Adm. B. 1, it is said, If there be an executor, and
administration be granted before probate and refusal, it shall be
void on, the will being afterwards proved; although the will were
suppressed or its existence were unknown, or it were dubious who
was executor, or he were concealed or abroad at the time of granting the administration. So in Com. Dig. B. 2, B. 10, If there be two
executors, one of whom proves the will and the other refuses, and
he who proves the will dies, and administration is granted before
the refusal of the survivor, subsequently to the death of his co-executor, or if grantea1 before the refusal of the executor, although he
afterwards refuse, such administration shall he void. Ln all these
cases, the administration is a mere nullity. The executor's interest
the ordinary is incapable of divesting. Toiler on Ex. 121.

SUPREME COURT.
[Kane vs. Paul.]

In the case of Griffith vs. Frazer, 8 Cran. Rep. 24, the Court says,
"The appointment of an executor vests the whole personal estate in
the person so appointed. He holds as trustee for the purposes of the
will, but he holds the legal title in all the chattels of the testator.
He is, for the purpose of administering them, as much the legal proprietor of those chattels, As was the.testator himself while alive.
This is incompatible with any power in the ordiuary to transfer
those chattels to any other person by the grant of administration on
them. His grant can pass nothing; it conveys no right, and is a void act."
Such is the Common Law.
Notwithstanding the extended jurisdiction given by the statutes
of Maryland to the Orphans Court in testamentary cases, we cannot see in them any alteration of the legal consequence resulting
from the grant by that Court of letters of administration, in case of
a will, when there is an executor not disqualified by law, or who
has not been excluded from acting in conformity to law. The
grant of administration is void, as at common law. The powers
given to the Court are intended to protect the rights of executors ; not to enlarge its jurisdiction to transfer them to another per-,
son. the action of the Court, to be effective to grant adminis,tration* upon a will, an executor being alive, and capable of acting,
must be within its powers. If not, the administration will be void.
This conclusion is sustained too by the stern manner in which the
Orphans Court 'is confined within its jurisdicti4)n by the statute of
1798, ch. 101, sub-ch, 15. "The said Orphans Court shall not,
under any pretext of incidental power or constructive authority,
exercise any jurisdiction whatever not expressly given by this act,
or some other law."
The letters being void, the person named in them .cannbt retain
from the rightful executor the testator's effects ; upon the plea that
he may do so until the letters have been revoked by the Court which
granted them. The appearance of an executor with proof of the
will and letters testamentary, subsequently to the grant of letters of
administration in a case where it was supposed there was no will,
is of itself a revbcation of the latter; and so is the Maryland law.
Dorsey's Maryland Testamentary Law, 4 sec. 77.
In this case, then, though the right of the plaintiff to sue in the
District of Columbia is given by the act' of Congress of the 24th
June, 1812; Davis' Dist. Laws, 266; his right to recover rests upon
the legal conclusion that the defendant never was administrator to
administer the effects of, the testator: the act of the Orphans Court
naming him such, being void, ab initio. His right'under that act is,
to "maintain any suit or action, and to prosecute and recover any
claim in the District of Columbia, in the same manner as if his letters testamentary or administration had been granted by the proper
authority,"&c. &c. "in such District."
In the case before us, there was a will which had been proved in
Maryland ; letters, testamentary granted to an executor; that executor was alive (and is still so) when the Orphans Court gave letters

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

41

[Kane vs. Paul,]

to the defendant, upon the proof that the executrix named in the
will was dead; without any inquiry concerning the executor, but in
the face of the certificate of his letters testarbentary.
It was repeatedly asked on the argument of this cause, what rights,
can letters testamentary, or of administration, granted in either of
the states of this Union, give to an executor or administrator in the
District of.Columbia, except the right to sue, given by the act of
Congress of 1812.

Davis' Dist. Laws, 266.

We answer, that the right to sue in the manner it is given, gives
the right to such executor or administrator to recover from any individual within the District of Columbia, effects or money belonging
to the testator. or intestate, in whatever way they may have been received, if the law does not permit him to retain them on account of
some relation borne to the testator or to his executor, which defeats
the executor's right; and that letters testamentary, or of administration, obtained in either of the states or territories of this Union, give
a right to the person having them to receive and give discharges for
assets, without suii, which may he in the hands of any person within
the District of Columbia: and the right to receive from the government, either in the District or in the state where letters have been
granted, any sum of money which the government may owe to a
testator or intestate at the time of his death, or which may become
due thereafter, or which may accrue to the government from a testator or intestate, in any way or at any time. And a bona fide payment to the administrator of a debt due to the estate, shall be a legal
discharge to the debtor, whether the administration be void or voidable.

Toiler, 130.

Allen vs. Dundas, 3 Term Rep. 125.

It was however uirged, that the Court erred in its instruction to
the jury, because the letters testamentary of the plaintiff appear on
the face of them to have been granted ihviolation of the law of
Maryland, Dor. Test. Law, 6 sec. 77. which declares that letters
testamentary shall not be granted to any one, or to any number of
executors less than the whole; unless there shall be such proceedings
against each of them failing, as would authorize the issuing of letters of administration in case'of the failure of a sole named executor.
Whether such proceedi!)gs were had or not, the record does not show:
but if it did, the objection would not prevail. The certificate of the
Register of wills annexed to the proceeding of the Orphans Court,
giving letters'to the defendant, shows that the will had been proVed,
and that the p!aintiff had received - letters testamentary. That he
is executor, then, is proved, as much as the law requires it to be;
whether the declaration is in assumpsit upon a cause of action
arising in the time of the testator, or in that of the executor. The
plea was the general issue; and even in a case where that plea raises
the question of right or title in the executor, the certificate of probate, and qualification as executor, meets the requisition. A judicial examination into their validity can only be gone into upon a
plea in abatement, after oyer has been craved and granted; and then
upon issue joined, the plaintiff's title as executor or administrator
D2

6

42

SUPREME COURT.
tKane vs. Paul.]

may be disputed, by showing any of those causes which make the
grant void, ab initio, or that the administration has been revoked.
The title of an administrator is proved by the production of the
letters of administration. 2 Phil. Evi, 550, 551. Childres vs. Emory
et al. 8 Wheat. 671. 'Nor can such objection prevail,because the plaintiff omitted to make profert of his leters testamentary in his declara-

tion, for that is aided, unless the defendant, demur specially for the
defect.

4 Anne, ch. 11.

1 Saunders on Pleading, 574.

It was also objected, against the recovery in this case, that the
money of the testator having been received by the defendant after the
death of the testator, the declaration should have been in the plain
tiff's own name, and not as executor. The law is now well established that it may be in either-form. The distinction is, that when
an executor sues in respect of a cause of action which occurred in
the lifetime of the deceased, he must declare iii the detinet, that is,
in his representative capacity only. But where-the cause of action
accrues after the death of the testator, if the money recovered will
be assets, the executor may declare in his representative character,
or in his own name.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washingtoti, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this Court, that the judgnent of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and
damages at the rate of six per centum per afinum.

