JANUARY TERM, 1840.

THE LESSEE o

AMBROSE WALDEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. JOHN
CRAIG'S HEIRS AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

In a scire facias to revive a judgment in ejectment, where it is stated that the term recovered
is yet unexpired, this is sufficient. It is not required that the term as laid in the declaration, and that facts showing its continuance should be stated.
When the Court have given leave, on motion, to extend the term in a demise, and the
amendment is specific, it is not necessary to interline it in the declaration. If leave'to
amend the declaration had been given generally, and the amendments had not been interlined, it would be different.
In Kentucky there is no law which limits a revival of judgments; and at law, lapse of time
can only operate by way of evidence. From lapse ofzime, and favourable circumstances,
the existence of a deed may be presumed, or that an obligation has been discharged ; but
this presumption always arises under pleadings which would render the facts presumed
proper evidence. A demurrer to a scire facias raises only questions of law on the facts
stated in the writ of scire facias; no evidence is beard by the Court on the demurrer; and
consequently thdre is no presumption against the judgment OX which the writ issued,
from lapse of time.
The marshal, on his return to a scire facias to revive a judgment in ejectment, stated that
two of the defendants were dead. This return doe not become matter of record, like the
fact of service of the writ, stated in the return; and cannot be taken advantage of by
demurrer. A plea in abatement was the proper method of taking advantage of the decease
of those of the defendants who were deceased. On this plea, the plaintiff could have
taken issue, and have had the facts ascertained by a jury.
To a scire facias to revive a judgment in ejectment, it is not necessary to make the executors or administrators of deceased defendants parties ; the subject matter in dispute being
land, over which they have no control. The law is well settled, that where a defendant
in ejectment'dies, the judgment must be revived against both his heirs and the terre
tenants.
Service of process or notice, is necessary to enable a Court to exercise jurisdiction in a case
and if jurisdiction be taken in a case in which there has been no process or notice, the
proceeding is a nullity. But this is only where original jurisdiction is exercised, and not
a decision of a collateral question, in a case where the parties are before the Court.
After judgment, the parties are still in Court, for all the purpose of giving effect to it. And
in the action of ejectment, the Court having power to extend the demise after judgment,
the defendant may be considered in Court, on a motion to amend, ai well as on any
other motion or order which may be necessary to carry into effect the judgment. Iu no
correct sense is this power of amendment similar to the exercise of an original jurisdiction between parties on whom process has not been served.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Kentucky.
This case was argued by Mr. Underwood for the plaintiff in error;
and by Mr. Crittenden for the defendant.
As stated in the brief and argument for the defendant, the case was:
"This is a scire facias to revive a judgment on ejectment of the
District Court of the United States for the Kentzicky District, which
Walden's lessee had recovered against Lewis Craig and Abraham
Shockey, on the 19th day of June, 1800. The scire 1acias bears date
the 27th of March, 1837 ;and, Lewis Craig having previously died,
it was sued against his heirs and Abraham Shockey, and also
against Thomas Blair, as tenant in possession. The defendants
demurred to the scire facias, and also pleaded nul tiel record, on both

148

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Walden vs. Craig's Heirs et aI.)

which issues were joined; and on both, t-e Court, (having heard
the evidence on the latter issue,) being of opinion in favour of the
defendants, gave judgment for them.
"The plaintiff excepted to the decision of the Court against him, on
the issue of nul tiel record; and, by his bill of exceptions, has spread
upon the record the evidence by which, on his part, he attempted to
sustain that issue.
"This evidence consisted, 1st, of the record of proceedings in the
original action of ejectment by Walden's lessee vs. Craig, &c., and
the judgment therein in favour of the plaintiff, rendered on the 19th
of June, 1800, 'for his term, &c., yet to come and unexpired, together with his costs,' &c. The demise in the declaration on which
this judgment is'rendered was for a term of ten years, from the, 15th
of August, 1789.
"And, 2dly, the record of an entry made in the same case, on the
8th of May, 1824, in these words: to wit: 4On motion of the plaintiff in the above cause, by his attorney, leave is given to amend the
declaratidn by extending the demise to fifty years;' which is done
accordingly. But executions not to go out before the 1st day of
March next.'
"This, it is presumed, is all the evidence that can be judicially
regarded as belonging to this case, or made part of it by the bill of
exceptions, though it further appears, from what has been incorporated in the record, that, on the 2d June, 1812, an execution of
haberi facias issued on the judgment in ejectment, and that afterwards, at the July term, 1813, it was quashed because it had been
issued 'after the expiration of the demise in the declaration.'
And
it also appears that, in the year 1835, Thomas Blair, the tenant in
possession, made application to the Court to annul and set aside the
order of May, 1824, for extending the demise; and that this application was overruled by a division of the judges."
Mr. Crittenden for the defendant in error.
If the decision of the Court was correct, either upon the demurrer
to the scire facias, or upon the plea of nul tiel record, the judgment
for the defendants was right. And they contended that the Court
decided correctly on both the points.
First, as to the demurrer.-The law of Kentucky having dispensed with the necessity of a declaration upon a writ of scire facias,
it has been adjudged, in many cases, that the scire facias must answer
the end of a declaration, and must set out all such facts as will warrant a judgment upon it. Dozier vs. Gore, 1 Littell's Rep. 164.
5 Littell's Rep. 59. Holland vs. Boulden, 4 Monroe, 148. And,
in the case of Wood vs. Coghill, 7 Monroe, 601, it was decided by
the Court of Alpeals of Kentucky, that a scire facias, to revive a
judgment in ejeetment, must state the term yet to come, as laid in
the declaration ; for that, if the term has expired, there can be no
writ of possession on the judgment.
We insist, therefore, that the scire facias in this case, not stating

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

149

[The, Lessee of Walden vs. ,Craig's Hteim et a.]

the term as laid in the declaration in- ejeetment, nor any facts that
showed its continuance, is fatallyidefective - And if we are permitted, upon the demurrer, :to look beyond the scire facias) and to aid
its want of averfnents by reference to the record of the judgment
that it seeks to revive, and with which it is "i n tim ately connected,"
-(as is intimated in the case of Thompson, &c. vs. Dbugherty's Heirs,
3 J. J. Marshall,) then it will appear that, in point of fact, the term
for which that judgment was Tendered had ,long before expired.
For this defect, therefore, equally apparent on the face of the scire
the demurrer was correctlysustained.
of the judgment,
facias
We and
furthermore
submit to the Court, whether the lapse of time,
being more than thirty-six years from the date of the original judgment
to that of the scire facias, does not warrant that decision. A less
period of time would, by the laws of Kentucky, have sufficed not
only to cancel Walden's right of entry, bup all his right and title to the
land in contest. And it would seern therefore,'by strong analogy,
that he ought not to be permitted, by the revival of a, judgment so
ancient, to escape those wholesome laws that secore ling-continued
possessions; and to assert, in this indirect mode, rights that could not
be sustained in any other form of action.
Secondly, as to the plea of nul tiel record.-By the issue- on that
plea, the plaintiff was bound to produce the record of a judgment
for a term then (in the year 1837) unexpired. The judgment which
he'offered in evidence was rendered the 19th June, 18(O0, for a term
of ten years, commencing the 151h August, 1789. It is needless to
say more than that here there was, in the most material particular,
a clear and obvious failure of proof on his part. And the only evidence by which it was attempted to supply this defect was the order
of Court made, on the'motion of the plAintifr, upon the 8th of. May,
1824, giving him leave to amend his declaration by "extending the
demise to fifty years ;" and which, as the, same entry proceeds to
state, "is done accordingly."
This order cannot help the plaintiff, or have aiiy effect, for two
reasons: 1st. Because the amendment it gave, leave to make was
nlot in fact made, as the record shows; and the entry made in 1824,
that it"is done accordingly, ) cannot be regarded, as it is apparent
that amendment or extension of the demise was never made. 1 Monroe, 113. " 2d, The order itself is a nullity, made ex parte on the
plaintiff's motion, without notice to 'the defendants, or to any one
interested to defend ; and that, after the prties to the judgment in
ejectment had been out of Court for more than twenty years.
By the settled law of Kentucky, and by the uniform adjudications
of her Courts it is now established, that they have no power 'to-permit or authorize any such extension of the demise after judgment,
without the assent of the opposite party. Owings vs. Marshall,
3 Bibb, 207.
This Court, howeger, in the case of Walden-et al. vs. Craig, 9
Wheat, 576, determined that the Federal Circuit Court for Kentucky
might grant leave, after judgment, to enlarge the term statcd irn the
N2

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Walden vs. Craig's Heirs et al.]

declaration; and that, under the circumstances of that case, the motion for such leave ought to have been sustained. It is evident,
from this decision, that it is not a matter of course, or of right, on
the part of the plaintiff, to have such leave; and that the exercise-of
thepower or discretion of the Court to grant it, depends on the circumstances of the case. Notice to the parties to be affected by such
a prQceeding, is just as necessary as it is in any other form of litigation; and that no judgment or judicial proceeding can bind or affect
any man who has had no warning, notice, or opportunity of defence,
is supposed to be-a primary principle of justice and jurisprudence,
that requires no illustration or authority for its support.
The motion and leave. to amend, in this case, being without notice, and wholly ex parte, are null and without effect.
If amendments of this character are allowed, the whole object
of the statute of limitations is defeated. If a party can lay by for
such a length of time, and then restore himself to the same condition
he was in when the suit was originated, by such an extension of the
term, no statute can operate.
In England some leave must be obtained by the party from the
Court, before a scir6 facias to revive a judgment can be sued out.
It is a judicial writ. But-this is not the law in Kentucky. Without an application to the Court, the writ may be sued out; but no
one in Kentucky would, in the Courts of that state, assert the validity and operation of the scire facias sued out in this case.
Mr. Underwood, for the plaintiff in error.
He contended, that the extension of the demise in this case was
fully within the power of the Court. Although it is considered that
the defendants in the ejectment were constructively in. Court when
the order was made, yet their presence is not necessary. The Court
exercise a discretion in the matter. They will not see the purposes
of justice defeated, and they interfere always to prevent this.
The plaintiff had been prevented by the introduction of bills in
Chancery, from obtaining any advantage from his judgment of recovery ; the controversy between him and the other parties began
in 1789, and by delays which he could, not control, but for the just
indulgence of the Court in extending the demise, all the benefits of
his recovery in the ejeetment would have been lost. Upwards of
fifty years have passed; and should this Court affirm the judgment of
the Circuit Court, the property to which the plaintiff has shown
himself entitled to, at law and in equity, will be irretrievably lost to
him.
The granting and the refusal of the extension of the demises in
ejectment have been held by this Court to be within the discretion
of the Couri. The refusal of an extension has been decided by this
Court, not tq be the subject of a writ of error. It was not then competent for the Circuit Court, at a later period in this case, to interfere
with the action of the Court in a matter exclusive in its jurisdiction
and power.

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

151

[The Lessee of Walden vs. Craig's-Heirs Ot al.]

In Walden vs. Craig, 9 Wheaton, this Court decided that the'demises in a declaration might be extended; and held, that no writ
of error would lie on this having been done in the Circuit Court. In
this case, if notice of the motion to the Court to extend the demise
was necessary, it was given. The presumption always is, that the
requisites t6 a proceeding by a Court have been complied with.
A. printed argument, by Mr. Wickliff, for the plaintiff in error,
was handed to the Court.
Mr. Justice MLEA4N delivered the opinion of the Court.
These cases are brought before this Court, from the Circuit Court
of Kentucky, by writs of error. *
The plaintiff in error, who was the plaintiff in the Circuit Court,
issued two writs of scire facias, to revive the judgments rendered in
the above cases the 19th of June, 1800, against Shockey and Rose,
the original defendants, and the heirs of Craig. Alias writs were-issued, and on the first and second writs the marshal returned served
on several of the heirs named; and that Shockey and Rose were
deceased.
In both cpges, the defendants demurred to the writs of scire facias,
and also pleaded nul tiel record. Issue being joined, . the Court
gave judgments for the defendants on both issues; to revive which
judgments these writs of error were prosecuted.
A bill of exceptions spreads upon the record the evidence that
waabefore the Court on the issue of nul tiel record.
We will first consider !he questions arising on the demurrer.
It seems. to be the practice in Kentucky not to file a declaration
on a wriftof scire facias, but to consider the writ as the declaration.
It is insisted that these writs are all defective in not stating the
term as laid in the declarations, nor any facts which showed its continuance : and a decision in 7 Monroe, 601, where it is stated that a
scire facias to revive a judgment in ejectment, must state the term
yet to come, as laid in the declaration is relied on.
In the above writs it is stated that the term recovered is yet.unexpired: and we think this allegation is sufficient. It would be
an extremely technical rule to require greater strictness than this.
In 1 J. J. Marshall's Rep. 5; the Court of Appeals say, if a-scire facias contain such recitals as will point to the judgment intended to
be revived, with such certainty that the defendant must.know what
judgment was meant, it will be sufficient. And again, ir 3 J. J. Marshall, 564, the Court held, that where the scire facias contained an
extract from the judgment,, and referred to the record and 'proceedings in the suit, it was good. That execution is awarded on
the original judgment, and the prooeedings on that judgment being
referred tcr in the writ, if the term had expired, the defendant might
show it
* Note.-Two cases were before the Court; involv' .g the same questions. This opinion
was deliveted in the two cases.

1$2

SUPREME- COURT.
[The'Lessee of Walden vs. Craig's Heirs et AiQ

The amendments made in 1824, which extended the demises fifty
years, not being inserted in the declarations, it is insisted that they
cannot be considered as a part of the records referred to in the writs
of scire facias. 'If leave had been generally given to. amend, and
no amendments of the declarations had been made, the objection
would be insurmountable., But the amendments were specific, and
they were entered on the records of the Court.; and they referred to
the cases ; so that no complete'records of them could be made, without including these amendments. It was therefore unnecessary to
interline them in the declarations.
The'writs by statements of facts and by references, we think contain sufficient certainty.
But it is contended that the demurrers should be sustained on the
ground of lapse of time.
The judgments sought to be revived were entered in 1800;. but
how is the lapse of time to operate ?
It is not pretended that 'there is any statute or rule in Kentucky,
which limits a revival of 'the judgments; and it is very clear, that
at law, lapse of time can only operate by way of evidence.
From lapse of time and favourable circumstances, the existence of a deed may be presumed, or that an obligation has been discharged; bti this presumption always arises under pleadings which
would render the facts'presumed proper evidence., A demurrer
raises only questions of law, on the facts stated ii the writs of scire
facias themselves. No evidence is heard; and, consequently,: there
is no ground for presumption from lapse of time.
Can the demurrer be sustained on the ground of the marshal's
return that Shbckey and Rose, defendants in the judgments, are
dead?.
IThe marshal's return, it is said, becomes a matter of record, and
therefore, advailtage may be taken of this defect by demurrer.
It is admitted that the marshal's return of service, o non-service,
which he endorses on the process, and of which he has official
knowledge, becomes matter of record, and is binding on the parties.
But the marshal 'can ohly know, in common with other citizens, of
the decease of a person named in the writ; and, if he endorse the
fact of such decease, though it may be spread -on the record, it is
clearly not binding on the parties. Shall a rumour, which shall, in
the opinion of the marshal justify such endorsement, make the fact
a matter of record? It may excuse the officer, but it does not bind
the party whose- rights are involved.
The demurrers treat the fact of the death of these defendants as
matter of record; and if it be matter-of record it cannot be controverted. In this view, then, if the rumour on which the marshal
made the oudorsement be false, the rights of the plaintiff are forever
concluded. He 'cannot revive his judgment against'the heirs of
living defendants; and yet he 'cannot dispute the fact of thek decease, as entered on the recoTd.
A plea in abatement was the proper mode of taking advantage

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

153

[The Lessee of Walden vs. Craig's Heirs et al.]

of the decease of these defendants,. Onthis plea the plaintiff could
take issue on the fact of the decease, and have it ascertained by the
verdict of a, jury. Bac. Ab. Abatement, L. Chitt. Plead. 442. If
these defendants be dead, it would be error to revive the judgments
without the service of process on their representatives. But demurrers cannot be interposed which shall treat the fact of their
.decease as matter of record; and which may prevent the plaintiff

from issuing other writs in the cases.
In every view which we can take of the questions properly
arising on the demurrers, we think the Circuit Court erred in sustaining
them.
As the
subject matter of dispute is land over which the administrators or executors of the deceased defendants have no control, we
do not perceive the necessity or propriety of making them parties
in the writs.
The law is well settled, that where a defendant in ejectment dies,
the judgment must be revived by a scire facias against both his
birs and the terre tenants. 2 Salk. 598. 606. 2 Saund, 7, n. 4.
Cro. Jac. 506. And this is the rule of practice in Kentucky.
We come now to consider the evidence offered and rejected by
the Circuit Court, under the issue of nul tiel record.
The records offered were rejected on the ground that the amendments made in 1824, extending the demise in each case to fifty
years, having been made without notice to the defendants or the
terre tenants, were null and void.
In both cases the demise had expired before the judgments were
entered ; but the fact seems not to have been noticed by the counsel
on either side.
In 1800, and shortly after the rendition of the judgments, the
defendants filed a bill setting up an adverse, and as they alleged,.a
paramount equitable title to that of Walden for the land in controversy; and obtained an injunction to stay proceedings on the judgments. This injunction was continued until May term, 1809, when
it was dismissed by the Court for want of jurisdiction.
In 1811, another bill was filed and an injunction obtained, which
at May term, 1812, was dissolved; and in 1813, the bill was dismissed
complainants, at rules, in the clerk's office.
Writsbyofthepossession
were issued the 2d June, 1812, which at
July term, 1813, were quashed, on the ground that the demises had
expired.
At July term, 1817, a rule was entered for the defendants, Craig
and Rose, to show cause, at the next term, why the demise in the
declaration should not be extended. And at November term, 182.1,
the Court overruled the motion. To this decision a bill of exceptions was taken, which stated that the aboverule had been served
on the defendants.
A writ of error was taken out and the decision of the Court in
the case, is reported in 9 Wheat. 576. In their opinion, the Court
say, that the power of amendment is extended, at least, as far in
20

SUPREME COURT.
[The Lessee of Walden vs. Craig's Heirs et al.]

the thirty-econd section of the Judiciary Act as in any of the British statutes; and that there is no species of action to which the
discretion-of the Court, in this respect, ought to be more liberally
applied than to the action of ejectment. The proceedings are all
fictitious, fabricated- for the mere purposes of justice; and there is
every reason fbr allowing amendments in matters of mere form.
"And," they say, "Ithere is peculiar reason in this case, where the
cause has been protracted, and the plaintiff kept out of possession
beyond the term laid in the declaration, by the excessive delays
practised by the opposite party. The cases cited by the plaintiff's
counsel in argument are, we think, full of authority for the amendment which was asked in the Circuit Court; and we think the
motion ought to have prevailed."
But the Court decided that they could not take jurisdiction of the
case, as a writ of error would not lie on the decision of a collateral
motion in a cause.
After this decision of the Court.was certified to the Circuit Court,
the fbllowing entry was made on the record. "And afterwards,
to wit, at the May term of the Court aforesaid, in the year 1824,
until which time the motion to extend the demise in the declaration
was continued, &c. and leave is given on motion to amend the declaration by extending the demise to fifty years; which is done accordingly."
'In the other case against Craig and Shockey, there does not appear to have been a rule entered for the extension of the demise,
or that notice was served of the motion. But the same entry was
made of the continuance of the motion and the extension of the
dtemise, as in the other case.
In one of the cases, then, there is evidence of notice having been
given, but riot in the other. And the question may be considered,
whether there having been no notice, the amendment must be considered as void. If it be only erroneous and voidable, the Circuit
Court erred in rejecting the record.

The demises in the declarations having expired before the judgments, they could not authorize writs of habere facias possessionem; but they were not void. They were judgments on which
executions might issue for the damages and costs. And the amendments having relation back to the expiration of the demises, gave
vitality to both the judgments, the same as if the terms had originally been stated at fifty years.
It is admitted that the service of process, or notice, is necessary
to enable a Court to exercise jurisdiction in a case; and if jtirisdiction be taken where there has been no service of process, or notice,
the proceeding is a nullity. It is. not only voidable.,bat it is absolutely void. But this is only where original jurisdiction is exercised; and not a decision of a collateral question in a case wherc
the parties are before the Court.
If it ,were necessary, notices in the cases under consideration
might well be presumed. For it does not follow that no hotices were

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

155

[The Lessee of Walden vs. Craig's Heirs et al.]

given, because none appear upon the record. The fact oi notice
may be proved by parol. But,however convenient in practice, and
indeed, necessary, to some extent, to preserve from prejudice the
rights of parties, notice in such cases may be; still it is a question
:of practice. It does not go, except under a positive rule, to the
exercise of the power of amendment by the Court.
After the judgment, the parties are still in Court for all the purposes of giving effect to it. And in the action of ejectment, the
Court having power to extend the demise after judgment, the defendant may be considered in Court on this motion to amend as
well as on any other motion or order which may be necessary to
carry into effect the judgment. In no correct sense is the exercise
of this power of amendment similar to the exercise of an original
jurisdiction, between parties on whom process has not been served.
No new par"ts are made on the record, and no rights of the
terre tenants are barred by the extension of this legal fiction: a
fiction formed by the, Courts, and modified by them for the great
purposes of justice.
'The plaintiff's title was established by the judgment, and it
would be most unreasonable and unjust to deny him the fruits of
these judgments, on the ground that the fictitious lease had expired,
and whicthe Court had power to amend.
The judgments are described with,sufficient accuracy; and there
being no objection to the records except the one above considered,'
we think the Circuit Court erred in excluding the judgments as qvidence: and on this ground also are the judgments of that Court
reversed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Courtof the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is.
ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said
Circuit Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed
with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court with directions to proceed therein,
according to law and justice, and in conformity with the opinion of
this Court.

