JANUARY TERM, 1840.

JOHN S. MITCHELL, EXECUTOR AND DEVISEE 0op ANDREW MITCHELL DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. ROBERT LENOX AND
OTHERS,

DEFENDANTS

IN

ERROR.

The fourth article of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that "Full faith
and credit shall be given in each state to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings
of every other state," cannot, by any just construction of its-words, be held to embrace
an alleged error in a decree of a state Court, asserted to be in collision with a prior decision of the same Court, in the same case.

IN error to the Court for the Correction of Errors, of the state
of New York.
Mr. Crittenden moved to dismiss this writ of error on the ground
that the Court had no jurisdiction.
This motion was opposed by the counsel for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error to revise the decree
of the Court for the Correction of Errors for the state of New York,
It appears that a bill was filed in the Chanceyy Court of New
York, by Andrew Mitchell,.the plaintiff's testator, against Robert
Lenox and others,.in order to obtain art account of a certain estate
of the complainant, which he alleged that he had assigned and delivered to the- upon certain trusts. The defendants, among other
things, insisted that the said estate of the complainant had afterwards, with his consent, been assigned to certain other trustees, upon
the same trusts expressed in the original deed to them. It is unnecessary to state the nature of the controversy more fully for the purposes of this motion. The bill it seems came to final hearing before
the vice-chancellor of the first circuit of the state of New York, who
dismissed the bill without prejudice to the complainant's right to
make the same defendants parties to a new bill, if he should think
proper to file one against the second trustees or the survivor of them.
The complainant appealed from this decree to the chancellor, who
affirmed it; and he appealed from the chancellor's decree to the
Court for the Correction of Errors, and that Court affirmed the
chancellor's decree.
The plaintiff's testator thereupon filed a new bill against the same
defendants, in which he made the survivor of the second set of
trustees also a party defendant; and upori the final hearing, this
second bill was dismissed by the chancellor, and his decree was
afterwards affirmed by the Court for the Correction of Errors. It is
from this last decree that the writ of error to this Court is brought.
It does not-appear from the record that any of the questions enumerated in the twenty-fifth section of the act of Congress, of 1789,
arose in the Court of Errors; and consequently this Court is not
VOL. XIV.-E
7

50

SUPREME COURT.
(Mitchell vs. Lenox et al.]

authorized to review its judgment. It has indeed been contended
by the plaintiff in error, that the second decree is in collision with
the first; and that in this respect it violates the first section of the
fourth article of the Constitution of the United Sthtes, which dpclares
that "Full faith and credit shall be given in each state to, the public

acts, records, and judi~jal procdedings of 'every other state."~ Now
if it were admitted that the second decree is in collision with the
first, (which we certainly do not mean to say is the case,) yet the
article of the Constitution above quoted cannot; by any just construction of its,words, be held to embrace an error of that description, nor give this Court the right to review the decree.
The writ of error must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record of
the Uourt of Chancery of the state of New York, returned with the
writ of error in this case, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that this
writ of error to the Court of Chancery of the. state of New York,
be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Court of Chancery.

