SUPREME COURTI.

JAMES ATKINS, APPELLANT,

v*. N.

AND

J. DIcx

AND COMPANY,

APPELLEES.
A bill for an injunction was filed, alleging that the parties who had obtained a judgment
at law for the amount of a bill of exchange, of which the complainant was endorser,
had, before the suit was instituted, obtained ppyment of the bill from a subsequent endorser, out of funds of the drawer of the bill, obtained, -by the subsequent endorser,
from one of the drawers4 It. was held, that it was not necessary to make the subsequent
endorser, who was alleged to have made the payment, a party to the injunction bill.
In such a bill an allegation that the amount due on the bill of exchange was paid, is sufficient; without stating the value or nature of the effects out of which the payment was
.-made.
If there be any one ground upon which a Coyrt of Equity affords relief, it is an allegation
of fraud, proved or admitted.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.

On the 24th June, 1834, Cain and Lusk, merchants of Alabama,
drew a bill 'of exchange for two thousand four hundred and five
dollars, on Martin Pleasants and Company, of New Orleans, in
favour of the appellant, James Atkins. This bill was endorsed by
James Atkins to Parham N: Booker, and was afterwards endorsed
to N. and J. Dick and Company, the appellees. The bill was protested, and the appellees brought a suit against James Atkins, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Mississippi,
to May term, 1888, and recovered a judgment for thirtytwo hundred
and twenty-five dollars.
Execution was issued on the judgment, and a levy,was made on
the property of James Atkins; who, in redemption of'the same,
gave a forthcoming bond, with sureties, for the delivery of the property to the marshal on the day of sale. The property:not having
been delivered according t6 the provisions of the bond, the marshal
returned the bond as forfeited; whereby, according to the laws of
the state of Mississippi, it became, in force and effect, a judgment
against the obligor and his sureties.
The appellant, in order to stay execution on the bond against
himself, and the sureties, filed a bill on the equity side of the Court,
and obtained an injunction against the obligors in the bond.
The bill states, that since the giving of the forthcoming bond by
the appellant, and his sureties, he has ascertained, and does verily
believe, that N. and J. Dick and Company had been paid the money
mentioned in the bill of exchange, before the institutiou of the suit
on the same; but that he had no knowledge of this on the giving
of the forthcoming bond and its forfeiture; that he is advised, and
believes, that the bill of exchange was paid to N. and J. Dick and
Company, by Parham N. Booker, before the action was brought
against him on the bill; and that the same was paid because of

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

115

[Atkins vi(Dick et al.]

effects placed in the hands of Booker, by Lusk, one of the drawers
of the bill. That he is advised and believes that he would have
had a good and meritorious defence against Booker, on account of
the effects placed in the hands of Booker by Lusk, had Booker
brought an action against him in his own name; and he charges
that the names of N. and J. Dick and Company have been used to
defeat him in such a defence.
The defendant, the appellees demurred to the bill, and alleged the
following causes of demurrer:
1. It is alleged in the bill as a substantive, and the original ground
for injunction of the statutory judgment therein named, that one
Parham N. Booker, is the actual, and not the nomiial plaintiff in,
said judgment; that as endorser of the bill of exchange, (the basis
of the judgment,) next after the complainant as the first endorser
having paid the amount of the bill to the holders, received certain
effects of the drawers, whose amount ought to be credited to complainant ; and yet the said Booker is not impleaded as a defendant.
2. Nor is the amount, or value,'or nature of the effects, so charged
to have been paid to the second endorser, specified in said bill; nor
what part or portion was. discharged' or whether any of such effects
proved productive.
3. The said bill contains no matter or grounds whereon the Court
can grant the relief prayed therein.
The Court ordered, adjifdged, and decreed that the demurrer to
tqie bill be sustained, and that the complainant have leave to amend
his bill. It was further ordered, adjudged,and decreed, that the injunction be dissolved: and the complainant in the bill declined making
any amendment to the bill, and put the cause down for a further
hearing upon the bill and demurrer : and, after argument heard, it
appearing to the satisfaction of the CourtI that Parham N. Booker
was materiahy interested in the issue of said cause, and that the
said Booker had not been made a party to the same, it was, therefore, ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said bill be dismissed
for want of proper parties to the same, &c.
The case'was argued by Mr. Cocke, for the appellants; and -by
Mr. Crittenden, for the appellees.
For the appellants, it was contended,
1.That this being an injunction bill, and Booker being no party
to the proceedings at law, he was not a necessary or proper party
to the injunction bill.
2. That the fraud charged should have been 'denied by answer;
and that the Court below in'sustaining the demurrer and dimissing
the bill, was guilty of manifest error.
3. That Booker's rights and remedies, whatever they may be, are
separate and independent, and purely lega,.
4. On sustaining the demu.rer, the injunction ought not to have

116

SUPREME COURT.
[Atkins vs. Dick et al.]

been dissolved; but leave given to bring the other parties before the
Court.
Mr. Cocke stated, that he was aware, that it is a rule in equity,
that all persons materially interested in a suit ought to be made
parties, But the Court will always look to the object of the suit in
determining the question of the necessary parties to it. Law Library, vol. 49, pages 6, 7.
It is no part of the object of this bill to affect the liability of
Atkins to Booker, on Atkins' endorsement to him. Booker's rights
and remedies would remain unaffected by a decree of perpetual
injunction of N. and J. Dick and Company.
On the subject of the rule of proper parties to a bill, a Court of
Equity will not' suffer it to be applied to defeat the purposes of justice; if the case can be disposed of without prejudice to the rights or
interests of persons who are not made parties. A Courtof 'Equity
will not require persons to be made parties, where the circumstances
of the case do not warrant it. Story's Equity Pleading, 78, and
the authorities there stated.
This is not an original bill. In an injunction suit, no objection
can be taken on the, ground that absent persons are not made
parties. Law Library, vol. 49, page 53.
Whatever rights Booker may have either at law or in equity, are
predicated frotm the liabilities of Atkins to Booker, on Atkins' endorsement to him. Each endorsement is in the nature of a new
bill. It constitutes a paramount, separate, distinct, and -independent contract. Intermediate endorsers, or endorsees, are not necessarr parties in e4uity: their remedies are on the bills of exchange,
or promisgory notes, and at law. Law Library, vol. 50, page 151.
Ward vs. Vanbokklen, 2 Paige's Rep. 289. M'Carty vs. Graham,
2 Simmons' Rep. 285. 2 Atkins' Rep. 235.
The merits of the case between Atkins and N. and J. Dick and
Company, can be determined without affecting the interest of
Booker; and it is the duty of the Court to decree between the
parties before them. Russell vs. Clark's executor, 7 Cranch, 69.
ooker's rights could not be affected by the decree of perpetual
injunction against N. and J. Dick and Company. Wendel vs. Van
Rensselaer, 1 Johns. C. R. 437. 7 Conn. Rep. 437. Jay vs. Wirtz,
1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 517. He was not named as a party defendant,
nor was process prayed against him, or his interest to be affected.
He was, therefore, no proper party. Verplank vs. The Mercantile
Insurance Company, 2 Paige's Rep. 438. The Executors of Brasher vs. Van Courtlandt, 2 Johns. C. R. 245. Lucas vs. The Bank
of-Darien, 2 Stew. Alabama Rep. 280. Lyle vs. Bradford, 7 Monroe
Rep. 113. There was nothing demanded of Booker, and therefore, he
should not be made a party. Kerr vs. Watts, 6 Wheat. Rep. 550.
Had Booker been made a party in equity, he could have
claimed that he was not a party in the suit at law. That his rights
were purely legal, distinct, separate, and independent, confined

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

117

(Atkins vs. Dick et al.]

alone-to Atkins' endorsement to him, and have claimed to be restored to his remedy at law; and it would have been allowed to
him.

2 Story's Equity Pleading, p. 172, sec. 885; p. 173, see. 887.

Marine Jnsurance Company vs. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 336.
If the suit at law of N. and J. Dick and Company against Atkins,
was really for the use of Booker,.his name should have been placed
on the record as the cestui que use; by concealing his connection
with the suit, he has no right to shift the onus probandi as to the
matters in litigation, or to have the advantages which his situation,
as a defendant in Chancery would give him. This would be a
fraud on Atkins' defence against Booker, at law. Courts of Equity
would never allow the success of such a fraud. The demurrer is
in bad grace; and it may be worthy of inquiry, upon what principles do N. and J. Dick and Company demur? It would be
against conscience to execute a judgment at law, thus situated'. Marine Insurance Company vs. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 332.
The fact is, Booker can only be used in the injunction case, as a
,witness. Fenton vs. Hughes, 7 Vesey, Jr. Rep. 287. 1 S. C.
Rep. 73, 74.
The bill insinuates that Booker is the instigator, and it may be
that he may be an unwi!ling witness; but Atkins is entitled to the
answer of N. and J. Dick and Company, and the testimony of Booker.
If it be true, as charged, that the bill of exchange has in fact
been paid; it matters not by whom or how; the right of N. and J.
Dick and Company to have an actionagain for the money, was gone
both at law and in equity. They have no right to be paid twice.
If they could have no action for themselves, it is difficuli to perceive upon what principle they could have an action for another.
By the payment of the bill of exchange, it was cancelled by law.
It is time enough for .Atkins to litigate his rights with Booker,
both at law and in equity, when Booker shall sue Atkins on Atkins' endorsement to Booker.
It is therefore claimed, that the decree of the Court below should
be reversed; the demurrer be overruled; and leave granted to N. and
.J. Dick and Company to answer the bill.
Mr. Crittenden, for the appellees, contended, that the bill of the
appellants was properly dismissed by the Circuit Court, for want of
proper parties, and for want of equity.
The Circuit Court allowed the complainant to add proper parties;
but this he refused, and went on, notwithstanding this permission.,
According to the allegations of the bill, not only Parham N. Booker,
but all the sureties in the'forthcoming bond, given to the marshal,
should have been made parties to the suit, according to thqir interest
in relation to the matters alleged in it; and in order to enable the
Court to settle at once the whole controversy. McIntire vs. Hughes,
4 Bibb, 187.

3 Monroe, 398. 4 Monroe, 386.

3 J. J. Marshall, 44.

Macey & Co. vs. Brooks, 4 Bibb, 238. Turner vs. Cox, 5 Litt. Rep.
175.
Cummins vs. Boyle, 1 J. J. Marshall, 481.

118

SUPREME COURT.
[Atkins vs. Dick et al.]

The whole equity asserted by the appellants, grows out of the
acts of others than those of N. and J. Dick and Company. It is
alleged that Booker is now prosecutifig the suit on the bill of exchange, in the name of N. and J. Dick and Company; and yet he is
not made a party.
The assignor of a judgment, when a bill is filed against the parties
to the judgment, must be made parties to the bill. The proceeding
here is against an alleged nominal party; and yet the real party is
not allowed an opportunity to be heard. If the appellant is successful in this proceeding, Booker will not be prevented suing on
the bill of exchange, if he gets possession of it. Thus the controversy between the parties to the bill of exchange will nat be settled
by thc, present proceedings.
Mr. Justice BARBouR delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the Southern District of Mississippi.
The appellant was the payee of a bill of exchange drawn by Cain
and Lusk, which he endorsed to Parham N. Booker, who endorsed
it to N. and J. Dick and Company.
The bill having been dishonoured, Dick and Company brought
suit thereon, and recovered a judgment against Atkins, the first
endorser.
Upon this judgment an execution was issued, a forthcoming bond
was taken and forfeited; by reason whereof, the bond, according to
a statute of Mississippi, had the force of a judgment. on which execution was issued.
Atkins thereupon filed his bill in equity, in which he alleged that
he had ascertained, and verily believed, that Dick and Companiy had
been paid the amount of the bill of exchange, before the institution
of their suit against him; but that he had no knowledge of it at the
time of the giving and forfeiture of the forthcoming bond. That he
was advised, and verily believed, that the bill of exchange was paid
to Dick and Company, by Parham N. Booker, before the suit was
brought; and that it was paid, because of effects placed in the hands
of said Booker by-Lusk, one of the drawers of the bill of exchange.
That he was advised, and believed, that he would have had a good
defence against Booker, on account of said effects received by him
from Lusk, with which to pay the bill, in case said Booker had sued
in his own name, thereon. That the names of Dick and Company
were used with the intent to defeat him of that defence, in case he
became adyised that said effects had been placed in the hands of
Booker by Lusk, with which to pay and satisfy the bill. The bill
charged that in these proceedings the appellant had been most palpably defrauded; and that in order to consummate the fraud, Dick
and Compan~y had caused execution to issue on the judgment created
by the forfeited forthcoming bond, which was then'in the hands of the
marshal; and it prayed. an injunction, a perpetuation thereof, and for
'general relief. An injunction was granted. The defendants demur-

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

119

[Atkins vs. ick et alo

red to the bill, assigning three causes of demurrer, to wit: 1. That
Booker was not made a party. 2. that neither the amount, nor
the Value, nor the nature of the effects, charged in the bill to
have been paid to the second endorser, 'Was specified; and that it
was not stated what part -or portion was discharged, nor whether
any of such effects proved to be-productive. 3. That the bill contained no matter or grounds on which the Court could grant the
relief prayed for. The Court sustained the demurrer, and gave the'
plaintiff leave to amend his bill; and he declining to make any
amendment, they dissolved the injunction, and dismissed the bill for
want of proper parties.
From that decree this appeal was taken. The defendants, having
demurred to the bill, in the consideration of the case, we are to take
all its allegations to be true.
The bill is somewhat inartificially drawn; but it substantially
alleges that before the institution of the suit at law against the plaintiff, the amount of the bill of exchange in question had been paid
to Dick and Company, by means of effects furnished by one of the
drawers. The particular language of the allegation is' that it was
paid to them, because of effects placed in the hands of Parham N.
Booker, by Lusk, one of the ctrawers. Now we understand the
import of this to be, that these effects constituted the means by which
the payment was-effected; whether Booker sold the effects, and paid
the bill out of the proceeds of the sale, or detained them himself,
and in their stead advanced their value in money, is an inquiry of
no moment; because in either aspect of the case, the effect would
be, that the bill was paid, by means furnished by one of the drawers. And upon this state of facts, it is clear that the same operation
which satisfied the claim of Dick and Company, at the same time
extinguished all the rights as well as liabilities growing out of the
bill of exchange: because they, being the las - endorsers, were the
persons entitle& to receive the amount of the bill; and the drawers
being liable to every other party, and thefunds by which the payinent was effected being furnished by them, there was no longer
,any person who could have a claim against any other, founded upon
a bill thus paid.
Upon this view of the subject, the question is, whether a party
who has received payment of his debt, shall be permitted by a
Court of Equity to avail himself of a judgment at law, to enforce a
second payment; and that too, against a party who did not know
of that payment, until after the judgment was oblaindd. To state
such a proposition is to answer it.
The bill further charges the defendants with fraud, and this, too,
is admitted by the demurrer. If there be any one ground upon
which a Court of Equity affords relief with more. unvarying uniformity than on any other, it is an allegation of fraud, wh ether proven
or admitteal. Whilst, therefore, a case stands before us upon such
a bill and demurrer, we cannot hesitate to say it must be considered
as -entitling the party to the aid of a Court of Equity.

120

SUPREME COURT.

[Atkins vs. Dick et al.]
It is contended that Booker ought to have been made a party.
And the ground taken is, (and this is the first cause of demurrer
assigned,) that every person ought to be made a party who has an
interest in the subject of controversy; and it is said that Booker is
in that situation. We think that he has no intert . in the object of
this suit; in other words,, that he is not interested in the question
between these parties. The ground of equity is, that Dick and
Company, the plaintiffs in the judgment at law, received payment

of the amount recovered by them, before they brought their suit.
Now if he were made a party at all, it must be as defendant. But
the plaintiff neither sought, nor could he obtain, any decree against
him. He only asked a perpetual injunction against Dick and Company, on the ground of an equity attaching upon them personally.
If the plaintiff should prevail against them, it would be upon the
ground that the amount of the bill had been paid to them by the
drawers: supposing that to be the case, then Booker would not be
liable to them as endorser. If, on the contrary, the plaintiff should
fail, Booker's rights would in nowise be concludesl or affected; but
if, as endorser, he should'be made liable to Dick and Company, then,
as endorser, he could recover against the plaintiff, Atkins, as endorsee to him. But again: Booker's right and liability upon the
bill are at law. We cannot, therefore, perceive any ground upon
which, in a contest between two parties to a bill, founded upon an
allegation of equity attaching personally to one of them, a third
party can be brought into a Court of Equity to mingle in that litigation, when the attitude in which he stands is purely legal. If the
equity attached to him, then he ought to be made a party: but as it
does not, a Court of Equity is not the forum in which to discuss or
to decide either his right or liability. A very familiar case will
illustrate this principle. Suppose an obligee to assign a bond, on
which the assignee recovers a judgment, where, by statute, he may
sue in his own name; and that the obligor thereupon files his bill in
equity, praying for a perpetual injunction, on the ground of some
equity attaching upon the obligee before the 'assignment. In such
a case, the assighor must be made a party, because he is directly
interested in discussing the equity alleged to exist against him. But
if, on the contrary, the bill were filed upon the ground of some equity
not existing against the assignor, but arising between the obligor
and assignee, after the assignment, then there would be no pretence
forsaying that the assignor ought to be a party: plainly, because,
in that particular question, he has no interest whatsoever.

Which-

ever way that question may be decided, the relation between the
assignor and assignee, and the liability of the former to the latter,
growing out of the assignment, are purely questions of law; wholly
unaffected by the decision of the case in equity.
She secolid ground of demurrer is, that neither the amount, nor
value, nor nature of the effects charged to have been- paid, is specified.; nor is it stated what portion of the debt was discharged, nor
whether any of such effects proved to be productive. This cause

JANUARY TERM; 1840.

121

[Atkins vs. Dick et #.]

of demurrer we consider altogether untenable. The allegation in
the bill is, that the money mentioned in the bill of exchange was
paid to Dick and Company. This allegation covers the whole equity
of the case; because it asserts that there was a payment, ana that, a
payment of the money mentioned in the bill; that is, the whole
amount of the bill.
The third cause of demurrer, that there is no ground laid in the
bill for relief, has been already discussed; and we have shown that
the bill does contain sufficient allegations to entitle the complainant
to the aid of a Court of Equity.
We are of opinion that thc. Circuit Court, instead of sustaining
the demurrer, ought to have overruled it; and ordered 'the defendants to answer.
The decree is therefore reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Circuit Court, to be proceeded in, in conformity with this opinion,
and as to equity and justice shall pertain.

VOL. XIV.-L

