SUPREME COURT.

JEFFERSON

L. EDMONDS

AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS,

vs.

ANDERSON

CRENSHAW, APPELLEE.
Where there are two executors in a will, it is clear that each has a right to receive the debts
due to the estate, and all other assets which shall come into his hands; and he is answerable for the assets he receives. This responsibility results from the right to receive, and
the nature of the trust. A payment of the sums received by him to his co-executor, will
riot discharge him from his liability to the estate. He is bound to account for all assets
which come into his hands, and to appropriate them according to the directions of the
will.
Executors are not liable to each other; but each is liable to the cestuis quo trust and devisees,
to the full extent of the funds received by him.
The removal of an executor from a state in which the will was proved, and in which letters
testamentary were granted, does not discharge him from his liability as executor; much
less does it release him from his liability for assets received by him and paid over to his
co-executor.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
The appellee, with one James M'Morris, was, by the will of
Aaron Cates of South Carolina, made on the 8th day of February,
1816, and proved on the 15th of the same month, appointed executor of the will. Letters testamentary were granted to both the executors.
The will directs the estate of the testator to be sold ; and after the
payment of the debts, directs the executors to invest the residue of
the proceeds of the estate in stocks, for the benefit of certain persons
named in the will; and who are.appellants in this case.
The estate was sold, and the accounts were settled by the executors with the ordinary. The executors failed to invest the proceeds
of the sales in stocks. This bill was filed to compel a performance
of the directions of the will by the appellee.
The defendant; in the Circuit Court, stated in his answer, that
the monies of the estate were not invested in stocks in consequence
of the opposition of one of the legatees, a complainant in the bill;
and because the sums collected were not sufficiently large. That
although at the time of the taking out the letters testamentary, he
was a resident of South Carolina, yet that in 1819 he removed to
Alabama, having first delivered over to his co-executor, M'Morris,
all the assets of the estate which had ever come to his hands, and
took the receipt of the co-executor for the same, which receipt he
filed with the Court of Ordinary which .had granted the letters testamentary, and surrendered to the co-executor the exclusive management of the estate 6f the testator. M'Morris had become insolvent.
The case was heard on the bill, answer, and the receipt; and the
Circuit Court ordered the bill to be dismissed. From this decree an
appeal was prosecuted to this Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1840,

167

[Edmonds et al. vsx Crenshaw.]

The case was argued by Mr. Key, for the appellants. No counsel
appeared for the appellee.
For the appellants it was contended, that the defendant was bound
to invest the proceeds of the sales in the stocks, as directed by the
will of Aaron Cates; and that for.any loss occasioned by his failure
to do so, he was liable.
The renunciation was of no effect. No discharge from liabilities
as executor can be obtained without the action of the Court. His
liabilities continued, and they were not changed or ditninished by
his removal to Alabama.
The receipt given to him by his co-executor had no operation on
his responsibilities under the will. While it will be admitted that
one executor is not liable for payments made to a co-executor; it is
denied that a payment of the money by one executor to another,
instead of a compliance with the will by investing the money, has
no effect on those liabilities. Cited, 1 Williams on Executors, 148,
149. AnLbler, 117. 2Williams,1124. 1 Ventris'Rep.335. 2 Brown's
Ch. Cases, 117. 2 Penn. Rep. 498. Precedents in Chancery, 173.
2 Schoales and Lefroy, Rep. 245. 7 East, 246. 11 Johns. Rep. 16.
116. 16 Ves. Jr. 478. 1 Merivale, 711. 1 P. Williams, 241.

Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of Alabama.
The complainants, who represent themselves to be the devisees
of Aaron Cates, deceased, who, on the 7th of February, 1816, made
his will in which he required all his estate, both real and personal,
to be sold at public auction, by his executors, on a credit of one,
two, and three years; the purchaser to give two good freehold securities and a mortgage on the property, to secure the payments.
Three bequests, of one hundred dollars each, were made to certain
individuals, to one of whom he gave his wearing apparel. After
the payment of these bequests, his funeral expenses, and ten per
cent. on monies collected byhis executors, he directed that his executors should vest the entire balance, including the net proceeds of
fits estate then in their hands, in bank stock; or in shares or capital
of such companies or corporations as in their judgments should be
most proper and productive, in trust for certain uses, and subject to
certain restrictions: and he appointed "his friends, Anderson Crensha'w and James M'Morris, executors; and on the death of either,
the survivor was to be sole executor, with power oflappointing,
either by deed or by will, a proper person to carry into effect the
provisions of the will."
On the death of the testator, the executors proved'the will in the
ordinary's office for Newberry district, in the state of South Carolina, and qualified as executors. They caused the property to be
appraised and sold, and made returns thereof to the above office:
the sale bill, they allege, amounted to the sum of twenty-five. thousand one hundred and forty-four dollars. And the complainants

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmonds et al. vs. Crenshaw.]

state that at the time of his decease, the testator had a considerable
sum of money on hand, and that many debts on accounts, notes,
bonds, and mortgages, were due to him; and afterwards came into
the hands-of 'his executors.
The bill alleges that the defendant, one of the executors, some
years since, removed from the state of South Carolina to the state
of Alabama, without vesting or causing to be vested any part of the
funds belonging to the estate, in the hands of the executors. That
the defendant left the state of South Carolina without settling the
estate or accounting for the funds which came intp his hands; that
M'Morris continued to act as executor; and that there is in the
hands of the executors about the sum of sixteen thousand dollars,
funds of the estate; and that they have neglected and refused to
account for and pay over the same. That M'Morris is insolvent;
and the complainants pray that the executors may account, &c.
The defendant, Crenshaw, in his answer, admits that Aaron Cates
made the will, as stated in the bill,.and that it was proved; that he
was qualified with M'Morris as executor, made the returns to the
ordinary as stated, but does not recollect the amount of the estate.
He states that a part of the estate sold by the executors was recovered from the purchasers, by others; and that debts to a considerable amounrf were paid by the executors. He'admits that in the
year 1819 he removed to Alabama: and that the executors previous
to this time made no investment of the funds, because the amount
on hand was small, and Mrs. Wadlington, one of the legatees, and
only daughter of the testator; and who was the natural guardian, of
her then infant children, who were the principal legatees, opposed
such investment by every means in her power.
And' the defendant states that before he left South. Carolina, he
surrendered up and delivered over to M'Morris, his co-executor, all
the assets of the estate which had come to his hands; including cash,
evidences, of debt, and other liabilities; and took from him a receipt,
which is made a part of the answer. That until this time, he and
his co-executor had 'made correct returns to. the brdinarir of their
proceedings; and that since then, he has not intermeddled with the
estate.
The parties.agreed to go to a hearing on the bill and answer; and
that the receipt referred to in,.the answer given by M'Morris to the
defendant, should be considered as duly proved.
On the bill, answer, and receipt, the question arises whether the
defendant is discharged from the trust under the will.
Where there are two executors in a will, it is clear that each has
a right to receive the debts due to the estate, and all other assets
which shall conie into his hands; and he is responsible for the assets
he teceives, This responsibility results from the right to receive,
and the nature of the trust: and how can he discharge himself
from this responsibility?
,n this case the defendant has attempted to discharge himself
from, responsibility, by paying over the assets received by him to

JANUARY TERM, 1840.

169

f[Edmonds et al. vs. Crenshaw.]

his co-exL-utor. But such payment cannot discharge him. Having
received the assets in his capacity of executor, he is bound to account for the same: and he must show that he has made the investment required by the will, or in some other mode, and i4 con.formity with the trust, has applied the funds.
One executor having received funds cannot exonerate himself,
and shift the trust to his co-executor, by paying over to him the sums
received. Each executor' has a right to receive the debts due to
thd estate, and discharge the debtors; but this rule does not apply
as between the executors. They stand ion equal ground, having
equal rights, and the Same responsibilities. They are not liable to
each other, but each is liable to the cestuis que trust, to'the full extent of the funds he receives. Douglass vs. Satterlee, 11 Johns. 16.
Fairfax's Executors vs. Fairfax, 5 Cranch, 19.
The removal of the defendant from the state did not. render him
incapable of discharging his duties as executor; much less did it
release him from the assets he receive4 and paid over to his coexecutor.
In the case of Griffith vs. Frazier, 8 Cranch, 9, this Court held,
who absents himself from the state after taking
that
an executor
out letters
testamentary, is still capable of performing, and
is houid
This was a case where
to perform, all the duties of executor."
there was but onie executor.
The liability of the defendant arises under the laws of South Carolina, which regulated his duties as executor. He is responsible
for all the assets of whatsoever kind which came into his hands as
executor; and which he has not accounted for and paid over, as
directed by the will.
The Circuit Court held, that the facts set up in the answer, with
the receipt of his co-executor, released the defendant from'his trust;
and from all responsibility under it. In this the Court erred, and
their decree on this ground is reversed and annulled; and the cause
is remanded to that Court, with directions to have an account taken
of all the assets which came into the possession of the defqndant
as executor, and to enter a decree in favou of the complainants
against him, for the amount he. shall have received and not accounted for to the ordinary, and paid over, in conformity with this

opinion.

VOL. XIV.-P

