VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Counsel for Parties.

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
ORIGINAL.
No.3.

Original. Argued'March 8, 9, 1893.-Decided April 3,1893.

The boundary line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee, which was
ascertained and adjusted by commissioners appointed by and on behalf
of each State, and marked upon the surface of the ground between the
summit of White Top Mountain and the top of the Cumberland AIoun-

tains, having been established and confirmed by the State of Virginia in
January, 1803, and by the State of Tennessee in November, 1803, and
having been recognized and acquiesced. in by both parties for a long
course of years, and having been treated by Congress as the true
boundary between the two States, in its districting them for judicilA and
revenue purposes, and in its action touching the territory in which Federal
elections were to be held and for which Federal appointments were tb
be made, was a line established under an agreement or compact between
the two States, to which the consent of Congress was constitutionally
given; andi as so established, it takes effect as a definition, of the true
boundary, even if it be found to vary somewhat from the line established
in the original grants.
The history of the Royal Grants, and of the Colonial and State Legislation
upon this sub3ect reviewpd.
an agreement or compact as to boundaries may be made between two
States, and the requisite consent of Congress may be given to it subsequently, or may be implied from subsequent-action of Congress itself
towards the two States; and when such agreement or compact is thus
made, and is thus assented to, it is valid.
What "an agreement or compact" between two States of the Union is,
and what "the consent of Congress" to such agreement or compact is,
within the meaning of Article I of the Constitution,. considered and
explained.
A boundary line between States or Provinces which has been run 6ut,
located and marked upon the earth, and afterwards recognized ud
acquiesced in by the parties for a long course of years, is conclusive.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr B. Taylor Scott, Attorney General of the State of
Virginia, Mir William F.-Rhea and AXr Rufus A. Ayers, for
the State of Virginia.
_Mr George TV Pickle, Attorney General of the State- of
Tennessee, (with whom was Wr -_W 2M. Taylor, Xr IT H.
Hazynes, Air Thomas Curtm and Air C. J. St, 7ohn on the

OCTOBER TERM. 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

brief,) _Mr Abram L. Demos and ilr
State of Tennessee.
MR. JusTioii

FILD

A.

. Colyar for the

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to establish by judicial decree the true boundary line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee. It
embraces a controversy of which this court has original jurisdiction, and in this respect the judicial department of our
government is distinguished from the judicial department of
any other country, drawing to itself by the ordinary modes of
peaceful procedure the-settlement of questions as to boundaries
and consequent rights of soil and jurisdiction between States,
possessed, for purposes of internal government, of the powers
of independent communities, which otherwise might be the
fruitful cause of prolonged and harassing conflicts.
The State of Virginia, as the complainant, summoning her
sister State, Tennessee, to the bar of this court-a jurisdiction
to which the latter promptly yields -sets
forth in her bill
the sources of her title to the territory embraced within her
limits, and also of the title to the territory embraced by Tennessee.
The claim of Virginia is that by the charters of the English
sovereigns, under which the colonies of Virginia and North
Carolina were formed, the boundary line between them was
intended and declared to be a line running due west from
a point on the Atlantic Ocean on the parallel of latitude
thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes north, and that the State
of Tennessee, having been created out of the territory formerly
constituting a part of North Carolina, the same boundary line
continued between her and Virginia. And the contention of
Virginia is that the boundary line claimed by Tennessee does
not follow this parallel of latitude but varies from it by
running too far north, so as to unjustly include a strip of land
about one hundred and thirteen miles in length and varying
from two to eight miles in width, over which she asserts and
unlawfully exercises sovereign jurisdiction.
On the other hand, the claim of Tennessee is that the

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

boundary line, as declared in the English charters, between
the colonies of Virginia and North Caroliua -was run and
established by commissioners appointed by Virginia and Tennessee after they became States of the Union, by Virginia in
1800 and by Tennessee in 1801, and that the line they established was subsequently approved in 1803 by the legislative
action of both States, and has been recognized and acted upon
as the true and real boundary between them ever since, until
the commencement of this suit, a period of over eighty-five
years. And the contention of Tennessee is that the line thus
established and acted upon is not open to contestation as to
its correctness at this day, but is to .be held and adjudged to
be the real and true boundary line hetweenfthe States, even
though some deviations from the line of the parallel of latitude
thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes north may have been:
made by the commissioners in .the measurement and demarcation of the line.
In order to clearly understand and appreciate the force and
effect to be accorded to the respective claims and contentions
of the parties, a brief history of preceding measures should be
given, with reference to the charters and legislation under
which they were taken.
On the 23d of May, 1609, James the First of England, by
letters patent, reciting previous letters, gave to Robert, Earl of
Salisbury, Thomas, Earl of' Suffolk, and divers other persons
associated with them, a charter which organized them into a
corporation by the name of The Treasurer and Company of
Adventurers and Planters of the city of London, for the first
colony of Virginia, and granted to them all those lands and
territories, lying "in that part of America called Virginia,
from the point of land called Cape or Point Comfort, along
the sea coast to the northward 200 miles, and from the said
point of Cape Comfort along the sea coast to the southward
200 miles, and all that space and circuit of land lying from
the sea coast of the precinct aforesaid up into the land
throughout, from sea to sea, west and northwest", and,
"also all the islands lying within 100 miles along the coast
of both seas of the precinct aforesaid."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 21th, of March, 1663, Charles the Second of England granted to Edward, Earl of Clarendon, and others of his
subjects, all that territory within his dominion of America
"extending from the north end of the island called Lucke
Island, which lyeth in the Southern Virginia seas and within
six and thirty degrees of the northern latitude, and to the
west as far as the South Seas, and so southerly as far as the
river Mathias, which bordereth upon the coast of Florida, and
within one and thirty degrees of northern latitude, and so
west in a direct line as, far as the South Seas aforesaid," and
gave them full authority to organize and govern the territory
granted under the name of the Province of Carolina.
On the 30th of May, 1665, Charles the Second granted to
the above proprietors of Carolina a charter, confirming the
previous grant, and enlarging the same so as to include the
following-described territory All that province and territory
within America, "extending north and eastward as far as the
north end of Currituck River or inlet, upon a straight westerly
line to Wyonoke Creek, which lies within or about the degrees
of thirty-six and thirty minutes northern latitude, and so west
in a direct line as far as the South Seas, and south and westward as far as the degrees of twenty-nine inclusive of northern
latitude, and so west in a direct line as far as the South
Seas."
The northern and southern settlements of Carolina were
separated from each other by nearly three hundred miles, and
numerous Indians resided upon the intervening territory, and
though the whole province belonged to the same proprietors,
the legislation of the settlements was by different assemblies,
acting at times under different governors. Early in 1700
the. northern part of the province was sometimes called the
colony of North Carolina, though the province was not divided
by the crown into North and South Carolina until 1732,
(Stor s Commentaries on the Constitution, sec. 137.) Previously to this division the settlements on the borders of
Virginia, and of what was called the colony of North Carolina, had largely increased, and disputes and altercations frequently occurred between the settlers, growing out of the

VIIGINII

v. TENNESSEE.

Opinion of the Court.

unlocated boundary between the provinces. Virgimans were
charged with taking up lands, under titles of the crown, south
of the proper. limits of their province, and Carolinians were
charged with taking up lands which belonged to the crown
with warrants from the proprietors. The troubles arising from
this source were the occasion of much disturbance to the communities, and various attempts were made by parties in authority in the two provinces to remove the cause of them.
Previously to January, 1711, commissioners were appointed
on the part of Virginia and North Carolina to run the boundary line between them, and proclamations were made forbidding surveys of the grounds until that line -within the disputed
limits should be marked. But these efforts for the settlement
of the difficulties were unavailing.
Tn January, 1711, commissioners were again appointed, but
failed for want of the requisite- means to accomplish their
intended object.
In 1728 an attempt to settle the difficulties was renewed,
but, as on previous occasions, it failed. The commissioners of
the colonies met, but they could not agree at what place to
fix the latitude thirty-six degrees thirty minutes north, nor
upon the place called Wyonoke, and they broke up without
doing anything. The governors of North Carolina and Virginia then entered into a convention upon the subject of the
boundary between the two provinces, and transmitted it to
England for approval. The king and council approved of it,
and so did the lords and proprietors, and returned it to the
governors to be executed. The agreement was as follows:
"That from the mouth of Carrituck River, setting the
compass on the north shore thereof, a due west line shall be
run and fairly marked, and if it happens to cut Chowan River
between the mouth of Nottawav River and Wiccacon Creek,
then the same direct course shall be continued towards the
mountains, and be ever deemed the dividing line between
Virginia and Carolina. But if the said west linp cuts Chowan
River to the southward of Wiccacon Creek, then from that
point of intersection the bounds shall be allowed to continue up the middle of Chowan River to the middle of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court;

entrance into said Wiceacon Creek, and from thence a due
west line shall divide the two governments. That if said
west line cuts Blackwater River to the northward of Nottaway
River, then from the point of intersection the bunds shall be
allowed to be continued down the middle of said Blackwater
to the middle of the. entrance into said Nottaway River, and
from thence a due west line shall divide the two governments.
"That if a due west line shall be found to pass through
islands or cut out small slips of land, which might much more
conveniently be included in one province or other, by natural
water bounds, in such case the persons appointed for running
the line shall have the power to settle natural bounds, provided
the commissioners on both sides agree thereto, and that all
variations from the west line be punctually noted on the
premises or plats, -which they shall return to be put upon the
record of both governments."
Commissioners were appointed by Virginia and North Carolina to carry this agreement into effect. They met at Currituck Inlet in March, 1728. The variation of the compass was
then found to be three degrees one minute and two seconds
west, nearly, and the latitude thirty-six degrees thirty-one
minutes. The dividing line between the provinces struck
Blackwater one hundred and seventy-six poles above the
mouth of Nottaway The variation of the compass at the
mouth of Nottaway was two degrees thirty minutes. The
line was afterward extended to Steep Rock Creek, 320 miles
from the coast, by commissioners Joshua Fry and Peter Sefferson, on the part of Virginia., and Daniel Weldon and William
Churton, on the part of North Caizolina.
In 1778 and 1779 Virginia and North Carolina having become by their separation in 1776 from the British crown independent States, again took up the question of the boundary
between them, and appointed commissioners to extend and
complete the line from the point at which the previous commissioners, Fry and Jefferson and others, had ended their
wortk on Steep Rock Creek, to Tennessee River. The commissioners undertook the work with which they were charged,
but they could not find the line on Steep Rock Creek, owing,

VIR GINIA v. TENINrESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

as they supposed, to the large amount of timber which had
decayed since it was marked. The report of their labors was
signed only by the Virginia commissioners. Their report was,
in substance, that after running the line as far as Carter's
Valley, forty-five miles west of Steep Rock Creek, the commissioners of Carolina conceived the idea that the line was farther
south than it ought to be, and, on trial, it appeared that there
was a slight variation of the needle, which the Virginia commissioners thought arpse from their proximity to some iron oro
that various expedients to harmonize the action of the conimissioners were unavailing, and the Carolina commissioners,
agreeing that they were more than two miles too far south of
the proper latitude, measured off that distance directly north,
and ran the line eastwardly from that place, superintended by
two of the Carolina and one of the Virginia commissioners,
while from the same place it was continued westwardly, superintended by the others, for the sake of expediting the business.
The Virginia commissioners subsequently became satisfied that
the first line run by them was correct and they, therefore,
continued it from Carter's Valley, where it had been left,
westward to Tennessee River. The :North Carolina commissioners carried their line as far as Cumberland M[ountains,
protesting against the line run by the Virginia commissioners.
This was in 1779 and 1780. The line adopted by the
Virginia commissioners was known as the Walker line and
the line adopted by the commissioners of North Carolina was
known as the Henderson line. Walker's line was approved
by the legislature of Virgmia in 1791, but it never received
the approval of the legislature of Tennessee. Previouslyto
the appointment of these commissioners, and on the 6th of
]May, 1776, the State of Virginia, in a general convention,
with that generous public spirit which on all occasions sinco
has characterized her conduct in the disposition of her claims
to territory under different charters from the English government, had declared that the territories within the charters
erecting the colonies of Maryland, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and South Carolina were thereby ceded and forever confirmed to the people of those colonies respectively On the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

25th of. February, 1790, North Carolina ceded to the United
States the territory which afterwards became the State of
Tennessee, (2 Charters and Constitutions, 1664:,) and which was
admitted into the Union on the 1st of June, 1796. 1 Stat.
491, c. 47. Subsequently, the States of Virginia and Tennessee both took steps for the final settlement of the controversy
as to the boundary between them. On the 10th of January,
1800, the house of delegates of the general assembly of
Virginia adoptdd the following resolution "Whereas it is
represented to the present general assembly that the people
livMng between what are called Walker's and Henderson's lines,
so far as the same run between the State of Tennessee and
this State, do not consider themselves .under either the jurisdiction of that or thisState, and, therefore, refuse the payment
of any taxes to either of said States, or to the collectors of
either for the general government, because the State of North
Carolina, on -the 25th of February, 1790, ceded the said
State of Tennessee, then called the Southwestern Territory,
to the government of the United States, and, therefore, the
act entitled 'An act. concerning the southern boundary of
this State,' passed on the 7th-of December, 1791, in this legislature, to establish the line commonly called Walker's line,
as the boundary between North Carolina and this State, could
only bind the State of North Carolina as far as her territorial
limits extended on the line of this State, and could not bind
*thesaid Southwestern Territory which had previously been
conveyed, as aforesaid, and
"Whereas, Since the said cession, the general government
bath erected the said Southwestern Territory into an independent State, by their act, June 1st, 1796, whereby it has
become the duty of the said State of Tennessee and of this
State to settle all differences between them with respect to
the said boundary line
" Resolved, therefore, That the executive be authorized and
requested to appoint three commissioners, whose duty it shall
be to meet commissioners to be appointed by the State of
Tennessee, to settle and adjust all differences concerning the said
boundary line, and to establish the one or the other of the

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

said lines as the case may be, or to run any other line which
may be agreed on, for settling the same, and that the executive
be also requested to transmit a copy of this resolution to the
executive authority of the-State of Tennessee."
On the 13th of January, 1800, this resolution was agreed to
by the Senate.
On the 13th day of November, 1801, the general assembly
of Tennessee passed an act on the same subject, Laws of Tennessee, 1801, c. 29, the first section of which is these words
" Be it enacted by the general assembly of the State of
Tennessee, That the governor for the time being is hereby
authorized and reqmred, as soon as may be convenient after
the.passing of this act, to appoint three commissioners on the
part of this State, one of 'whom shall be a mathematician
capable of taking latitude, who, when so appointed, are hereby
authorized and empowered, or a majority of them, to act in
conjunction with such commissioners as are or may.be appointed
by the State of Virginia to settle and designate a true line
between the aforesaid States."
The 2d section is as follows
"And whereas, It may be difficult for this legislature to
ascertain with precision what powers ought of right to be
delegated to the said commissioners, therefore,
"Be it enacted, That the governor is hereby authorized and
required from time to time to issue such power to the commissioners, as he may. deem proper, for the purpose of carrying
into effect the object intended by this act, consistent with the
true interest of the State."
On the 22d day of January, 1803, a report having been
made by the commissioners, which is copied into the act, the
legislature of Virginia ratified what had been done in the
following act
"Whereas, The commissioners appointed to ascertain and
adjust the boundary line between this State and the State of
Tennessee, in, conformity to the resolution passed by the legislature of this State for that purpose, have proceeded to the
execution of that business, and made a report thereof in the
words following, to wit

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"'The commissioners for ascertaining and adjusting the
boundary line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee
appointed pursuant to public authority on the part of each,
namely General Joseph Martin, Creed Taylor and Peter
Johnson, for the former, and Moses Fisk, General John Sevier
and General George Rutledge, for the latter, having met at
the place previously appointed for that purpose, and not
uniting, from the general result of their astronomical observations, to establish either of the former lines called Walker's
and Henderson's, unanmously agreed, in order to end all
controversy respecting the subject, to run a-due west line
equally distant from both, beginning on the summit of the
mountain generally known by the name of White Top Mountain, where the northeastern corner of Tennessee terminates,
to the top of Cumberland Mountain, where the southwestern
corner of Virginia terminates, which is hereby declared to be
the true boundary line between the said States, and has been
accordingly run by Brice Martin and Nathan B. Markland, the
surveyors duly appointed for that purpose, and marked under
the directions of the said commissioners, as will more at large
appear by the report of the said surveyors, hereto annexed,
and bearing equal date herewith.
"' 2. And the said commissioners do further unanimously
agree to recommend to their respective States, that mlividuals
having claims or titles to lands on either side of the said line,
as now fixed and agreed on, and between the lines aforesaid,
shall not in consequence thereof n anywise be prejudiced or
affected thereby, and that the legislatures of their respective
States should pass mutual laws to render all such claims or
titles secure to the owners thereof.
"'3. And the said commissioners do further agree unanimously to recommend to their States respectively that reciprocal laws should be passed confirming the acts of all public
officers, whether magistrates, sheriffs, coroners, surveyors or
constables, between the said lines, which would have been
legal in either of the said States had no difference of opinion
existed about the true boundary line.
"'4. This agreement shall be of no effect until ratified by

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opimon of the Court.

the legislatures -of the States aforesaid. Given under our
hands and seals at William Robertson's, near Cumberland
Gap, December the eighth, eighteen hundred and two. (Dec.
8th, 1802.)

"' Jos. M.ATIN.
"'CREED TAYLOR.
"'PETER JOHNSON.
"'JOHN SEVIER.
"'MOSES Fisx.
"' GEORGE RuTLEDGE.

[EL. s.]
[L.

s.]

[L. s.]
[L. s.]
IL.
S.]
[L. s.]'

"5. And- whereas, Brice Martin and -Nathan B. Marldand,
the surveyors duly appointed to run and, mark the said line,
have granted their certificate of the execution of their duties,
which, certificate is in the words following, to wit 'The
undersigned surveyors, having been fully appointed to run the
boundary line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee,
as directed by the commissioners for that purpose, have agreeably to their orders, run the same, beginning on the summit
of the White Top Mountain at the termination of the northeastern corner of the State of Tennessee, a due west course to
the top of the Cumberland Mountains, where the southwestern corner of Virginia terminates, keeping at an equal distance
from thelines called Walker's and Henderson's, and have had
the new line run as aforesaid marked with five chops in the'
form of a diamond, as directed by the said commissioners.
Given under our hands and seals, this eighth day of December,
eighteen hundred and two. (8th December, 1802.)
"'B. MA TI .
I. s.]
"NAT.

B. MARiLAm.

[L. s.]'

"And it is deemed proper and expedient that the said
boundary line, so fixed and ascertained as aforesaid, should be
established and confirmed on the part of this Commonwealth"6. Be zttherefore enacted by the General Assembly of the
Commonwealth of lirgnuz, That said boundary line between
this State and the State of Tennessee, as laid down, fixed and
ascertained by the said commissioners above named, in their
voL. CXLVmI-83

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

said report above recited, shall be and is herebyfully and absolutely, to all intents and purposes whatsoever, ratjed,estallisked and conirmed on the part of this Commonwealth, as
the true, certain and real boundary line between the said
States.
"7. All claims or titles derived from the government of
North Carolina or Tennessee, which said lands by the adjustment and establishment of the line aforesaid, have fallen into
this State, shall remain as secure to the owners thereof as if
derived from the government of Virginia, and shall not be in
anywise prejudiced or affected in consequence of the establishment of the said line.
"8. The acts of all public officers, whether magistrates,
sheriffs, coroners, surveyors or constables, heretofore done or
performed. in that portion of the territory between the lines
called Walker's and Henderson's lines, which has fallen into
this State by the adjustment of the present line, and which
would have been legal if done or performed in the States of
North Carolina or Tennessee, are hereby recognized and
confirmed.
"9. This act shall commence and be in force from and after
the passing of a like law on the part of the State of Tennessee." Laws of Va. 1802-1803, c. 39.
And on the 3d of November, 1803, Tennessee passed the
following ratifying act
"Whereas,. the commissioners appointed to settle and designate the true boundary between this State and the State of
Virginia, in conformity to the act passed by the legislature of
this State for the purpose, on the thirteenth day of November,
one thousand eight hundred and one, have proceeded to the
execution of said business, and -made a report thereof in the
words following, to wit"
(Here follows the report named in the Virginia act )
"And it is deemed proper and expedient that the said
boundary line, so, fixed and ascertained as aforesaid, should
be established and confirmed on the part of this State "1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of tho State of
Tennessee, That the said boundary line between this State

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

and the State of Virginia as laid down, fixed and ascertained
by the said commissioners above named in their said report
above recited, shall be and- is hereby fully and absolutely to
all intents and purposes whatsoever, ati-wf d, established and
confirmed on the part of this State as the true, certaln and
real boundary line between the said States.
"2. Be it enacted, That all claims or titles to lands derived
from the government of Virginia, which said lands, by the
adjustment and establishment of the line aforesaid have fallen
into this State, shall remain as secure to the owners thereof as
if derived from the government of North Carolina or Tennessee, and shall not be in anywise prejudiced or affected in consequence of the establishment of the said line.
"3. Be it enazted, That the acts of all officers, whether
magistrates, sheriffs, coroners, surveyors or constables, heretofore done or performed in that portion of territory between
the lines called Walker's and Henderson's lines, which has
fallen into this State by the adjustment of the present line,
and which would have been legal if done or performed in the
State of Virgima, are hereby recognized and confirmed."
Laws of Tennessee, 1803, c. 58.
The line thus run was accepted by both States as a satisfactory settlement of a controversy which had, under their
governments and that of the colonies which preceded them,
lasted for nearly a century As seen from the acts recited,
both States through their legislatures declared in the most
solemn and authoritative manner that it was fully and absolutely ratified, established and confirmed as the true, certain
and real boundary line between them, and this declaration
could not have been more significant had it added, in express
terms, what was plainly implied, that it should never be
departed from by the government of either, but be respected,
maintained and enforced by the governments of both. All
modes of legislative action which followed it indicated its
approval. Each State asserted jurisdiction on its side up to
the line designated, and recognized the lawful jurisdiction of
the adjoining State up to the line on the opposite side. Both
States levied taxes on the lands on their respective sides and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

granted franchises to the people resident thereon.

The peo-

ple on the south side voted at state and municipal elections
for representatives and officers of Tennessee, and the people on
the north side at such state and municipal elections voted for
representatives and officers of Virginia. The courts of the
two States exercised jurisdiction, civil and criminal, on, their
respective sides, and enforced their process up to that line,
and the legislation of Congress in the designation of districts
for. the jurisdiction of courts, and in prescribing limits for
collection districts and f6r purposes of election, made no
exception to the boundary as thus established. Act of July 1,
1862, 12 Stat. 432, 433, c. 119.
The line was marked with great care by the commissioners
of the States, with five chops on the trees in the form of
a diamond, at such intervals between them as they deemed
sufficient to identify and trace the line. Not a whisper of
fraud or misconduct is made by either side against the commissioners, for the conclusions they reached and the line they
established. It is true that in the year 1856, fifty-four -years
after the line was thus settled, Virginia, reciting that the line
as marked by the commissioners in 1802 had, by lapse of time,
the improvement of the country, natural waste and destruction
and other causes, become indistinct, uncertain and to some
extent unknown, so that many incon.veniences and difficulties
occurred between the citizens of the respective States and in
the administration of their governments, passed an act for the
appointment of commissioners, to meet commissioners to be
appointed by Tennessee, to again run and mark said line, -not
to run and mark a new line, -and provided- that where there
was no growing timber on any part of the line by which xt
might be plainly marked, if the old marks were gone, the
commissioners should cause monuments of stone to be permanently planted on the line, at least one at every five miles
or less, where it might seem best to the commissioners to do
so, that the line might be readily identified for its entire
length. The whole purpose of the-act, as is evident on its
face was, not to change the old boundary line, but only to
more perfectly identify it. Tennessee responded to that invi-

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opmon of the Court.

tation, and appointed commissioners to act with those from
Virginia. The commissioners togethei ro-run and re-marked
the line as it was established 'in1802, and planted such
additional monuments as were deemed necessary, and they
reported to their respective legislatures that- they had
"Caccurately run, .re-marked and measured the old line of
1802, with all its offsets and irregularities as shown 'm the
surveyor's report" therein incorporated and on the accom.panying map therewith sub'mitted. The legislature of Tennessee approved of the action of the commissioners, but
Virginia withheld her approval and called for a new appoint.
ment of commissioners to re-run and re-mark the' line, which
was refused by Tennessee as unnecessary No complaint as
to the correctness of the line run and established'in 1802 was
made by Virginia until'within a recent period. She'now by
her bill asks that the compact entered into between her and
the State of Tenne~see, as set forth in the act of the general
assembly of VirginiA of January 22, 1803, arid which became
operative by similar action of the legislature of Tennessee on
the 3d of November, following, be declared null and void, as
having been entered into between the States without' the consent of Congress, and prays that this court will esfaklish the'
true boundary line between those States due east and west, in
latitude 360 and 30' north, in accordance with what it alleges
to be the ancient chartered rights of that Commn6nw'ealth and
the laws creating the State of Tennessee and admitting it
into the Union.
The Constitution provides that "no State shall, without the
consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage, keep troops or
ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or
compact with another 'State, or with a foreign power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent
danger as will not admit of delay "
Is the agreement,- inade without the consent of Congress,
between Virginia and Tennessee, to appoint commissioners to
run and mark the boundary line between them, within the
prohibition of this clause 2 The terms "agreement "' or "com pact" taken by themselves are suffidiently comprehensive to

OCTOBER TERIMr, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

embrace all forms of stipulation, written or verbal, and relating to all kinds of subjects, to those to which the United
States can have no possible objection or have any interest in
interfering with, as well as to those which may tend to
increase and build up the political influence of the contracting
States,, so as to encroach upon or impair the supremacy of the
United States or interfere with their rightful management of
particular subjects placed under their entire control.
There are many matters upon which different States may
agree that can in no respect concern the United States. If,
for instance, Virginia should come into possession and ownership of a small parcel of land in New York which the latter
State might desire to acquire as a site for a public building,
it would hardly be deemed essential for the latter State to
obtain the consent of Congress before it could make a valid
agreement with Virginia for the purchase of the land. If
:M:assachusetts, in forwarding its exhibits to the World's Fair
at Chicago, should desire to transport them a part of the
distance over the Erie 'Canal, it would hardly be deemed
essential for that State to obtain the consent of Congress
before it could contract with New York for the transportation
of the exhibits through that State in that way If the bordering line of two States should cross some malarious and diseaseproducing district, there could be no possible reason, on any
conceivable public grounds, to obtain the consent oi Congress
for the bordering States to agree to unite in draining the
district, and thus removing the cause of disease. So in case
of threatened invasion of cholera, plague, or other causes of
sickness and death, it would be the height of absurdity to
hold that the threatened States could not unite in providing
means to prevent and repel the invasion of the pestilence,
without obtaining the consent of Congress, which might not
be-at the time in session. If, then, the terms "compact" or
"agreement" in the Constitution do not apply to every possible compact or agreement between one State and another,
for the validity of whmch the consent of Congress must be
obtained, to what compacts or agreements does the Constitution apply9

VIRGINIA. v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

We can only reply by looking at the object of the constitutional provision, and construing the terms "-agreement" and
"compact" by reference to it. It is a familiar rule in the
construction of terms to apply to them the meaning naturally
attaching to them from their context. ffosctur a sociis is
a rule of construction applicable to all written instruments.
Where any particular word is obscure or of doubtful meaning,
taken by itself, its obscurity or*doubt may be removed by
reference to associated words. And the meaning of a term
may be enlarged, or restrained by reference to the object of
the whole clause in which.jt is used.
Looking at the -clause in which the terms "compact" or
"agreement" appear, it is evident that the prohibition is
directed to theformation of any combination tending to the
increase of political power in the States, which may encroach
upon or interfere with the just supremacy of the United States.
Story, in his Commentaries, (ยง 1403,) referring to a previous
part of the same section of the Constitution in which the clause
in question appears, observes that its language "may be more
plausibly interpreted from the terms used, 'treaty, alliance-or
confederation,' and upon the ground that the sense of each is
best known by its association (nosoitw a sociis) to apply to
treaties of a political character , such as treaties of alliance for
purposes of peace and war, and treaties of confederation, in
which the parties are leagued for mutual government, political
cocperation, and the exercise of political sovereignty, and
treaties of cession of sovereignty, or conferring internal political jurisdiction, or external political dependence f or general
commercial privileges", and that "the latter clause, ' coinpacts and agreements,' might then very properly apply to such
as regarded what might be deemed mere private rights of
sovereignty, such as questions of boundary, interests in'land
situate in the territory of each other, and other'internal regulations for the mutual comfort and convenience of States
bordering on each other." And he adds "In such cases the
consent of Congress may be properly required, in order to
check any infringement of the rights of the national government, and, at the same time, a total prohibition to enter into

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

any compact or agreement might be attended with permanent
inconvenience or public mischief."
Compacts or agreements -and we do not perceive any difference in the meaning, except that the word "compact" is generally used with reference to more formal and serious engagements
than is usually implied in the term "agreement"-cover all
stipulations affecting the conduct or claims of the parties. The
mere selection of parties to run and designate the boundary
line between two States, or to designate what line should be
run, of itself imports no agreement to accept the line run by
them, and such action of itself does not come within the prohibition. Nor does a legislative declaration, following such line,
that it is correct, and shall thereafter be deemed the true and
established line, import by itself a contract or agreement with
the adjoining State. It is a legislative declaration which the
State and individuals, affected by the recognized boundary.line,
may invoke against the State as. an admission, but not as a
compact or agreement. .The legislative declaration will take
the form of an agreement or compact when it recites some consideration for it from the other party affected by it, forexample,
as made upon a similar declaration of the border or contracting
State. The mutual declarations may then be reasonably treated
as made upon mutual considerations. The compact or agreement wiltthen be within the prohibition of the Constitution or
without it, according as the establishment of the boundary line
may lead gr not to the increase of the political power or influence of the, States affected, and thus encroach or not upon the
full and free exercise of Federal authority If the boundary
established is so run as to cut off an important and valuable
portion of a State, the political power of the State enlarged
would be affected by the settlement of the boundary, and to
an agreement for the running of such a boundary, or rather
for its adoption afterwards, the consent of Congress may well
be required. But the running of a boundary may have no
effect upon the political influence of either State, it may
simply serve to mark and define that which actually existed
before, but was undefined and unmarked. In that case the
agreement for the running of the line, or its actual survey,

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

would in no respect displace the relation of either of the States
to the general government. There was, therefore, no compact
or agreement between the States in this case which required,
for its validity, the consent of Congress, within the meaning
of the Constitution, until they had passed upon the report of
the commissioners, ratified their action, and mutually declared
the boundary established by them to be. the truei and real
boundary between the States. Such ratification was mutually
made by each State in consideration of the ratification ofthe
other.
The Constitution does not state when the consent of Congress shall be given, whether it shall precede or may follow
the compact made, or whether it shall be express or may be
implied. In many cases the consent will usually precede the
compact, or agreement, as where itis to lay a duty of tonnage,
to keep troops or ships of war in time of peace, or to engage
in war. But where the agreement relates to a matter which
could not well be considered until its nature is fully developed,
it is not perceived why the consent may not be subsequently
given. Story says that the consent may be implied, and is
always to be implied when Congress adopts the particular act
by sanctioning its objects and ading in .enforcing them, and
observes that where a State is admitted into the Union, notoriously upon a compact made between it and the State of
which it previously composed a part, there the act of Congress, admitting such State into the Union, is an implied consent to the terms of. the compact. Knowledge by Congress of
the boundaries of a State, and of its political subdivisions, may
reasonably be presumed, as much of its legislation is affected
by them, such as relates to the territorial jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States, the extent of their collection districts, and of districts in which .process, civil and criminal, of
their courts may be served and enforced.
In the present case, the consent of Congress could not have
preceded the execution of the compact, for, until the line was
run, it could not be known where it would lie and whethei or
not it would receive the approval'of the States. The prelimmary agreement was not to accept a line run, whatever it

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

might be, but to receive from the commissioners designated a
report as to the line which might be run and established by
them. After its consideration each State was free to take
such action as it might judge expedient upon their report.
The approval by Congress of the compact entered-into between the States upon their ratification of the action of their
commissioners is fairly implied from its subsequent legislation
a'ad proceedings. The line established was treated by that
bodty as the true boundary between the States in the assignment of territory north of it as a portion of districts set apart
for judicial and revenue purposes in Virginia, and as included
in territory in which federal elections were to be held, and
for which appointments were to be made by federal authority
in that State, and in the assignment of territory south of it as
a portion of districts set apart for judicial and revenue purposes in Tennessee, and as included in territory in which
federal elections were to be held, and for which federal appointments were to be made for that State. Such use of the
territory on different sides of the boundary designated, in a
single instance would not, perhaps, be considered as absolute
proof of the assent or approval of Congress to the boundary
line, but the exercise of jurisdiction by Congress over the
country as a part of Tennessee on one side, and as a part of
Virginia on the other, for a long succession of years, without
question or dispute from any quarter, furnishes as conclusive
proof of assent to it by that body as can usually be obtained
from its most formal proceedings.
Independently of ,any effect due to the compact as such, a
boundary line between States or Provinces, as between
private persons, which has been run out, located and marked
upon the earth, and afterwards recognized and acquiesced in
by the parties for a long course of years, is conclusive, even
if it be ascertained that it varies -somewhat from the courses
given in the original grant, and the line so established takes
effect, not as an alienation of territory, but as a definition
of the true and ancient boundary ILord Hardwicke, in Penn
v -L'd Baltimore, 1 Vesey Sen. 444, 448, Boyd v G'aves,
4 Wheat. 513, Rhode Island v .3fassachusetts, 12 Pet. 657,

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

734, United States v Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 537, Xellogg v
Smith, 7 Cush. 375, 382, Mhenery v Waltham, 8 Cush. 327,
]Hunt on Boundaries, (3d. ed.) 306.
As said by this court in the recent case oi the State of
Indiana v. Kentucky, (136 U. S. 479, 5105) "it is a principle
of public law, universally recognized, that long acquiescence
in the possession of territory, and in the exercise of dominion
and sovereignty over it, is conclusive of the nation's title
and rightful authority"
In the case of Rhode Island v
.Massachusetts,4 How 591, 639, this court, speaking of the
long possession of Massachusetts, and the delays in alleging
any mistake in the action of the commissioners of the colonies
said "Surely this, connected with the lapse of time, must
remove all doubts as to the right of the respondent under the
agreements of 1711 and 1718. No human transactions are
unaffected by time. Its influence is seen on all things subject
to change. And this is peculiarly the case in regard to
matters which rest in memory, and which consequently fade
with the lapse of time and fall with the lives of individuals.
For the security of rights, whether of States or individuals,
long possession under a claim of title is protected. And
there is no controversy in which this great principle may be
invoked with greater justice and propriety than in a case of
disputed boundary"
Vattel, in hm Law of Nations, speaking on this subject,
says "The tranquillity of the people, the safety of States,
the happiness of the human race do not allow that the
possessions, empire, and other rights of nations should remain
uncertain,, subject to dispute and ever ready to occasion
bloody wars. Between nations, therefore, it becomes necessary to admit prescription founded on length of time as a
valid and incontestable title." I (Book II, c. 11, ยง 149.) And
1 La tranquillit6 des peuples, le salut des Etats, le bonheur du genre
humain, ne souffrent point que les possessions, l'empire, et les autres droits
des Nations, demeurent incertamns, sujets a contestation, et toujours en
6tat d'exciter des guerres sanglantes. I1 faut donc admettre entre les
peuples la- prescription fond6e sur un long espace de temps, comme un
moyen solide et incontestable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

'Wheaton, in his International Law, says: "The writers on
natural law have questioned how far that peculiar species of
presumption, arising from the lapse of time, which is called
prescrzptwn, is justly applicable as- between nation and
nation, but the constant and approved practice of nations
shows that by whatever name it be called, the uninterrupted
possession of territory or other property for a certain length
of time by one State excludes the claim of every other in the
same manner as, by .fhe law of nature and the municipal
code of every civilized nation, a similar possession by an
individual excludes the claim of every other person to the
article of property in question." (Part II, c. 4, ยง 164.)
There are also moral considerations which should prevent
any disturbance of long recognized boundary lines, considerations springing from regard to the natural sentiments and
affections which grow up for places on which persons have
long resided, the attachments to country, to home and to
family, on which is based all that is dearest and most valuable
in life.
Notwithstanding the legislative declaration of Virginia in
1803 that the line marked by the joint commissioners of the
two States was ratified as the true and real boundary between
them, and the repeated reaffirmation of the same declaration
in her laws since that date, notably in the Code of 1858, in the
Code of 1860 and in the Code of 1887, notwithstanding that
the State has in various modes attested to the correctness of
the boundary - by solemn affirmation in terms, by legislation,
in the administration of its government, in the levy of taxes
and the election of officers, and in its acquiescence for over
eighty-five years, embracing nearly the lives of three generations, she now, by her bill, seeks to throw aside the obligation
from her legislative declaration, because, as alleged, not made
upon the express consent, in terms, of Congress, although such
consent has been indicated by.long acquiescence in the assumption of the validity of the proceedings resulting in the establishment of the boundary, and to have a new boundary line
between Virginia and Tennessee established running due east
and west on latitude thirty-six degrees thirty minutes north.

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

But to this position there is, in addition to what has already
been said, a conclusive answer in the language of this court in
Poolev Fleeger, 11 Pet. 185, 209. In that case Mr. Justice
Story, after observing that "it -is a part of the general right
of sovereignty belonging to independent nations to establish
and fix the disputed boundaries between their respective territories, and the boundaries so established and fixed by compact
between nations become conclusive upon all the subjects and citizens thereof, ai.,A bind their ritghts, and are to be treated to all
intents and purposes, as the true and real boundary," adds:
"This is a doctrine universally recognized in the law and
practice of nations. It is a right equally belonging to the
States of this Union, unless it has been surrendered under the
Constitution of the United States. So far from there being
any pretence of such a geieral surrender of the right, it is
expressly recognized by the Constitution, and guarded in its
exercise by a single limitation or restriction, requiring the
consent of Congress." The. Constitution in imposing this
limitation plainly admits that with such consent a compact as
to boundaries may be made between two States, and it follows
that when thus made it has full validity, and all the terms and
conditions of it are equally obligatory upon the citizens of both
States.
The compact in this case having received the consent of
Congress, though not in express terms, yet impliedly, and subsequently, which is equally effective, became obligatory and
binding upon all the citizens of both Virginia and Tennessee.
Nor is it any objection that there may have been errors in the
demarcation of the line~which the States thus by their compact
sanctioned. After such compacts have been adhered to for
years neither party can be absolved from them upon showing
errors, mistakes or misapprehension of their terms, or in the
line established, and this is a complete and perfect answer to
the complainant's position in this case.
It may also be stated that if the work of the joint comnissioners, under the laws of 1800 and 1801, approved by the
legislative action of both States in 1803, could be left out of
consideration and a new line run, it would not follow that the

OCTOBER TERMV, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

parallel of- latitude thirty-six degrees thirty minutes north
would be strictly followed. The charter of Charles the
Second designates the northern boundary line of the province
of North Carolina as extending from Currituck River or inlet
upon a straight westerly line to Wyonoke Creek, which lies
withtr or about thvrty-six degrees thtrty nmnutes north latitude,
from which it is evident that that parallel was only to be the
general direction of the line, not one to be strictly and always
followed without any variations from it. The purpose of the
declaration in the charter of Charles the Second was only that
the northern boundary line was to be run in the neighborhood
of that parallel. The condition of the country at the time the
charter was granted - 1665 - would have made the running
of a boundary line strictly on that parallel a matter of great
difficulty, if not impossible. Nor did the needs of grantor or
chartered proprietors call for any such strict adherence to the
parallel of latitude designated. That neither party expected
it, is evident from the agreement made between the governors
of Virginia and North Carolina as to running the boundary
line boween them, and sent to England for approval by the
king and council. That agreement provided that, if the west
line run should be found to pass through islands orto cut out
small slips of land, which might much more conveniently be
included in one province than the other by natural water
bounds, in such case the persons appointed to run the line
should have power to settle natural water bounds, provided,
the commissioners on both sides agreed, and that all variations
from the west line should be noted on the premises or on plats
which they should return, to be put on record by both governors. A possible, indeed, a probable, variation from the
line of the parallel of latitude, or the straight line designated,
was contemplated by bothlVirginia and Tennessee. With full
knowledge of the line actually designated, and of the ancient
charter to Carolina, and of the description in the Constitution
of Tennessee, in appointing the joint commissioners, they provided that they should settle and adjust all differences concerning the boundary line, and establish either the Walker or
Henderson line, or run any other line which might be agreedon

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion- of the Court.

for settling the same, and that means any line run and measured with or without deviations from time to time from a
straight line, or the line of latitude mentioned as might in
their judgment be most convenient as the proper boundary for
both States. It was made with numerous variations from a

straight line, and from the line of the designated parallel of
latitude for the convenience of the two States, and, with the
full knowledge of both, was ratified, established and confirmed
as the true, certain and real boundary line between them.
And then, fifty-six years afterwards, in consequence of the
line thus marked becoming indistinct, it was re-run and- remarked, by new commissioners under the directions of the
statutes of 1800 and 1801, in strict conformity with the old
line. The compact of the two States, establishing the line
adopted by their commissioners, and to which Congress impliedly assented after its execution, is binding upon both
States and their citizens. Neither can be heard at this date to
say that it was entered into upon any misapprehension of
facts. No treaty, as said by this court, has been held void on
the ground of misapprehension of facts, by either or both of
the parties. Rhode island v .tfassacusetts, 4 H{ow 591, 635.
The general testimony, with hardly a dissent, is that the old
line of 1802 can be readily traced throughout its whole length,
and, moreover, that line has been recognized by all the residents near it, except those in the triangle at Denton's Valley
and in another district of small dimensions, in which it is
stated that the people have voted as citizens of Virginia and
have recognized themselves as citizens of that State. That
fact, however, cannot affect the potency and conclusiveness
of the compact between the States by which the line was
established in 1803. The small number of citizens whose
expectations will be disappointed by being included in Tennessee are secured in all their rights of property by,provisions of
the compact passed especially for the protection of their claims.,
Some observations were made, on the argument of the case,
upon the propriety and necessity, if the line established in 1803
be sustained, of having it re-run and re-marked, so as hereafter
to be more readily identified and traced. But.a careful exam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ination of the testimony of the numerous witnesses in the
case, most of them residing in the neighborhood of the boundary line, as to the marks and identification of the line originally established in 1802, and re-run and re-marked in 1859,
satisfies us that no new marking of the line is required for its
ready identification. The commissioners appointed under the
act of Virginia of 1856, and under -the act of Tennessee of
1858, found all the old marks upon the trees in the forest
through which the line established ran, in the form of a diamond, and whenever they were indistinct, or, in the judgment
of the commissioners, too far removed from each other, new
marks werp made upon the trees, or if no trees were fbund at
particular places to be marked, monuments in stone were
planted. Besides this, the State of Virginia does not ask that
the line agreed upon in 1803 shall be re-run or re-marked, but
prays that-a new boundary line be run on the line of 36' 30'
Tennessee does not ask that the line of 1803 be re-run or
re-marked. Nevertheless, under the prayer of Virginia for
general relief, there can be no objection to the restoration of
any marks which may be found to have been obliterated or
become indistinct upon the line as herein defined.
Our judgment, therefore, is that the boundary line established by the States of Virginia and Tennessee by the compact
of 1803 is the true boundary between them, and that on a
proper application, based upon a showing that any marks for
the identification of that line have been obliterated" or have
become indistinct, an order may be made, at any time during
the present term, for the restoration of such marks without
any change of the line.
A decree 'will,therefore, be entered declaring and adjudging
that the boundary line established between the States of
Tirginta and Tennessee by the compact of 1803 ts the real,
certainand true boundarybetween the said States, and that
'he prayer of the complainant to have the said compact set
aside and annulled, and to have a new boundary line 'run
between them. on the parallel of 360 30' north latitude
should be and ts denied at the cost of the complainant,
and it ts so ordered.

