WASATCH MINING CO. v. CRESCENT MINING CO. 293
Statement of the Case.

WASATCH MINING OONMPANYv . CRESCENT
MINING COMPAIY
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAMr.
No.135.

Argued March

13, 1893.-Decided March 27, 1893.

The plaintiff below contracted to buy of defendant and the defendant agreed
to sell to plaintiff, for a valuable consideration, several pieces or parcels
of land. In pursuance of said contract, a deed was made by the defendant to the plaintiff, wherein and whereby, by mistake and inadvertence
in describing the property conveyed, there was omitted therefrom an
important part of the property contracted to be sold. The purchase
price was a round sum for all the tracts, and was paid. Held, that a case
for a reformation of the deed was clearly made out, unless, indeed, the
defendant should be able to show some good reason why such admitted
or established facts are not entitled to their apparent weight.
In equitable remedies given for fraud, accident or mlstakei it is the facts
as found that give the right to relief; and, as it is often difficult to say,
upon admitted facts, whether the error which is complained of was
occasioned by intentional fraud or by mere inadvertence or mistake, the
appellant in this case has no reason to complain of the language ot the
court below, in attributing his misconduct to mistake or inadvertence
rather than to intentional fraud, and he cannot raise such an objection
for the first time in this court.
When, in the trial of a case, no objection ismade to the admission of
evidence and its relevancy to the pleadings, it is too late to raise those
questions in this court.

THEurecord discloses that the Crescent Mining Company
filed its complaint against the Wasatch Mining Company in
the District Court of the Third Judicial District of Utah
Territory,

that an answer denying

the

allegations of the

complaint was duly filed, that evidence was taken on behalf
of the respective parties, that the action,was tried by the
court sitting without a jury, and that the court made the
following findings of fact
"In July, 1886, said plaintiff contracted to buy of defendant
and defendant agreed to sell to plaintiff for a, valuable con-

sideration the following described mining property and prem-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ises, situated in Uintab mining district, Summit Couvi',Utah
Territory, .bounded, with magnetic variation, at 17 deg. and
20 mm. east, as follows, to wit
"Beginning at corner No. I of the Walker and Walker
Extension mine, and running thence N. 44. deg. 35 mm. west
220 feet to corner No. 2 of said mine, from which U. S.
mineral naonument No. 4 bears south 46 deg. 10 mi. west, at
a distance of 158.feet, thence south 21 deg. 15 mi. west 196
feet to corner No. 3, thence south 68 deg. 5 mm. west 2804
feet to corner No. 4 , thence south 44 deg. 35 mi. east 216 feet
to corner No. 5, thence north 68 deg. 5 mm. east 1410 feet to
corner No. 3 of the Buckeye mine, thence south 44 deg. 35
min, east along the southerly end line of said Buckeye mine
130 feet to corner No. 4 thereof, thence north 68 deg. 5 mm.
east 1400 feet to corner No. 1 of said last-mentioned mine,
thence north 44 deg. 35 mi. west 130 feet to corner No. 2 of
said Buckeye mine, the same being also corner No. 6 of said
Walker and Walker Extension mine, thence north 21 deg. 15
mm. east 190 feet to the place of beginning, together with all
dips, spurs and ang'les, and also all metals, ores, gold and
silver bearing quartz, rock and earth therein, and. all the
rights, privileges and franchises thereto incident, appendant
or appurtenant, or therewith usually had and enjoyed, and all
the estate, rights, title, interest and property, possession, claim
and demand of said party defendant in or to the same.
"2. In pursuance of said contract a deed was made by
defendant to plaintiff, bearing date September 1, 1886, wherein and whereby, by mistake and inadvertence in describing
the property so contracted for and to be deeded, there was
omitted therefrom so much of said property and premises as
had been patented by the United States to James Lowe and
others as part of lot 42, called the Pinyon and Pinyon Extension mining claim.
"3. That in making said contract and said deed it -was the
intention of parties plaintiff and defendant to include the
premises and property omitted as last aforesaid, and the purchase price thereof was paid and secured with that of the
property deeded."

WASATCH MINING CO. v. CRESCENT MINING CO. 295
Argument for Appellant.

From the facts so found the court drew the conclusion that
the plaintiff was entitled to have its deed from defendant so
reformed as to embrace and include in its aescription of the
property to be conveyed all that which was described in the
first finding of fact,
From this judgment of the District Court an appeal was
taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory, and from the
judgment of that court, affirming the decree of the District
Court, an appeal was taken to this court.
-Mr A. B. Browne, for appellant.
filed a brief for the same.

XAr Charles W Bennett

I. The complaint, assuming all its -allegations to be true,
does not state a case entitling respondent to the relief obtained. Under the clear intent of that contract in ihe event of
the representatives and successors in interest of William Tennings failing to join in the deed, (and they did so fail) the
Wasatch Mining Company was not required -to make any deed
until the final determination in its favor of the action against
the Jennmgses, nor until the Crescent Mining Company paid
appellant $42,500. Here, according to the contract, the money
was to be paid-not secured merely- before respondent
would be entitled to demand any sort of a deed.
Now the complaint shows that the action mentioned in the
contract is still pending. If at the time of the commencement
of this action respondent was. entitled to a deed, it must be
by reason of some other transaction, some contract between
the parties other than that of July the 9th. If there was any
other negotiation between the parties, any other contract
under which respondent was entitled-to call for a deed, it was
bound to allege it in its complaint. Failing to do so, the court
had no authority to render the decree that it did, no matter
how convincing the evidence might be that respondent was
entitled to a deed. Crocket v Lee, 7 Wheat. 522, Carnealv.
Banks, 10 Wheat. 181, HZarding v Handy, 11 Wheat. 103,
tarmson v NTixon, 9 Pet. 483, Foster v. Goddard, 1 Black,
506, Fergusonv Ferguson, 2 Comstock, (2 N_ Y.,) 360, Baiey

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

v Ryder, 10 N. Y 363, Afondran v. Goux, 51 California,
151, Dudley v. Scranton, 57 N. Y 421, Schofield v. Whitelegge, 49 N. Y 259, Tooker v. Arnoux, 76 N. Y 397.
II. If it were conceded that the complaint stated .a case
entitling the respondent to the relief granted, still there would
have to be a reversal, because the court's findings are not
within the issues presented by the pleadings.
A court of .equity may reform a writing -interpartes whenever, either through fraud or accident or mistake, it has been
so written as hot to express the true" agreement. But one
may no more be permitted to allege actual, positive fraud as
the ground for reformation, and obtain the relief on proof of
mistake, than he may be permitted to allege a mistake as the
ground for relief and recover on proof of actual fraud. This
we understand to be elementary doctrine. It is abundantly
furoier v Lewis, 39 California, 533,
settled by authority
Devoe v Devoe, 51 California, 543, Xondran v Goux, 51
California, 151, NMorenhout v. Barron, 42 California, 591.
III. In discussing the second assignment of error, we have
said all we desire to say m support of the third assignment
of error.
-Hr R. E Baskin, (with whom was -Hr Thomas -Marshall
on the brief,) for appellee.

1MR. fTusTIcE SmuAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought in the District Court of the Territory of Utah by the Crescent Mining Company against the
Wasatch Mining Company for the reformation of a deed,
made by the latter to the former, so as to make it embrace and
include a certain piece or parcel of land claimed to have been
wrongfully omitted from the deed.
Under the act entitled " An act concerning the practice in
territorial courts and appeals therefrom," approved April 7,
1874, (18 Stat. p. 27,) if the findings of the District Court
are sustained by the Supreme Court, such findings furnish a

WASATCH MINING CO. v. CRESCENT MING CO. 297
Opimon of the Court.

sufficient statement of the facts for the purposes of an appeal
to this court, and our inquiry is whether, upon such facts, the
judgment appealed from was right. Strrngfellow v Cazn, 99
U. S. 610.
If the plaintiff below contracted to buy of defendant and
the defendant agreed to sell to plaintiff, for.a valuable consideration, several pieces or parcels of land, and if, in pursuance
of said contract, a deed was made by the defendant to the
plaintiff, "wherein and whereby, by mistake and inadvertence
in describing" the property conveyed, there was omitted therefrom an important part of the property contracted to be sold,
and if the purchase price, being a round sum for all the tracts,
has been paid, a case for a reformation of the deed was clearly
made out, unless, indeed, the defendant should be able to show
some good reason why such admitted or established facts are
not entitled to their apparent weight.
In the effort to do so, the appellant points to what he contends is a fatal variance between the allegations of the bill of
complaint and the findings of fact on which the court below
based its judgment. The bill, as he reads it, is restricted to
the case of an alleged fraud and conspiracy between the defendant company and one E. P Ferry, a director and representative of the Crescent Mining Company, whereby the
defendant company delivered and Ferry accepted, with a view
to cheat and defraud the plaintiff company, a deed not conforming with the contract but omitt4ng an important part of
the land sold. And as the court finds, in terms, that the
omission was by "mistake and inadvertence in describing the
property so contracted for and to be deeded," the contention
is that the case is within the scope of well-settled cases, which
hold that no decree can be made in favor of a complainant
on grounds not stated in his bill.
If this objection is well taken, the complainant was in fault
in another very important particular. He omitted to make
Ferry a party
But we think this omission to make Ferry a party really
shows that the complainant was not proceeding on a case of
fraud and conspiracy between the defendant company and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Ferry, as the principal ground for relief. The allegations respecting-Ferry were to show reasons why the deed was accepted by the plaintiff company, and how the delay to institute
proceedings was accounted for. The word "fraud," as. a term
in legal proceedings, generally, is rather a legal conclusion than
an independent fact.
In equitable remedies given for fraud, accident or mistake,
it is the facts as found that give the right to relief, and it is
often difficult to say, upon admitted facts, whether the error
which is complained of was occasioned by intentional fraud or
by mere inadvertence or mistake. Indeed, upon the very same
state of facts, an intelligent man, acting deliberately, might
well be regarded as guilty of fraud, and an ignorant and inexperienced person might be entitled to a more charitable view
Yet the injury to the complainant would be the same in either
case.
The substantial meaning of the cases cited by the appellant
is, that the matters alleged in the bill as injurious to the complainant must be those proved on the trial and relied on by
the court in awarding relief, and we think that .the appellant has no reason to complain of the language of the court
below in attributing the appellant's misconduct to mistake and
inadvertence, rather than to intentional fraud.
The appellant was too late in making this objection, even if
it had been well founded. No such objection was taken in the
District Court, when there would have been an opportunity for
the plaintiff to amend his complaint, and such an objection
was out of place and time when urged as a ground of -appeal
in this court.
Another assignment of error asks us to reverse the court
below, because the complaint does not state a case entitling the
plaintiff to any relief. The claim is, that by the terms of the
contract between the parties, as set forth in the complaint and
shown in evidence, the plaintiff was not entitled to a deed at
the time of bringing the action, that the conditions upon:
which the. deed was to be delivered, had not yet been performed.

Such a contention seems quite inconsistent with the allega.

WASATCH MINING CO. v. CRESCENT MINING CO= 299
Opinion of the Court.

tions of the answer of the defendant in the court below, averring the delivery of a -proper deed by the defendant to ,the
plaintiff, and with the finding of the court, that a deed had
passed, and the payment of a portion of the purchase money,
and the security of the rest by a mortgage upon the property
so conveyed.
The argument, however, discloses that the plaintiff seeks to
overturn the decree below, bicause thke agreement which was
set up, in the complaint, and which recited the execution of
the deed, does show-that the deed was not to be delivered until
a certain controversy pending between the defendant, the
Wasatch Mining Company and third parties, and affecting
the title to the lands in dispute, should have been determined
n favor of the Wasatch Mining Company when the entire
purchase money should- be paid, and because it appears from
the complaint that said suit was not yet determined, nor said
purchase money paid, at the time this action was commenced.
The proceedings in the District Court and the findings show
that, without awaiting the determination of the outstanding
controversy, the deed in question was delivered and accepted,
and the unpaid portion of the purchase money, instead of
being paid in cash, was secured to be paid by a mortgage
given by the Crescent Mining Company to the -Wasatch Company
This was plainly alfulfilment of the contract in a modified
form, agreed to by both the parties, and the assignment of
error resolves itself into a contention that the bill.of complaint
did not, in terms, allege the modification of the agreement in
the particulars mentioned, and did not aver a waiver of the
condition that the deed was not to be delivered until the pending suit with third parties should be determined, and that
therefore the case made and found was different from the one
alleged.
The same answer is applicable to this objection* that was
made to the one first considered, - it came too late. In the
District Court the defendant did not demur to the complaint
as asking a form of rlief inconsistent with the terms of the
contract alleged, but by an answer and cross-bill brought all

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

the facts before the court, nor did the defendant object to
plaintiff's evidence as exhibiting a different case from that
asserted in the bill.
The Supreme Court of the Territory rightfully held that the
defendant should have raised the question in the trial court,
where ample power exists to correct and amend the pleadings,
and, not having done so, but having gone to trial on the merits,
the defendant was precluded from assigning error for matters
so waived.
The doctrine on this subject is well expressed in the case of
Tyng v Commerczal Warehouse Co., 58 N. Y 308, 313 "No
question appears to'have been made during the trial in respect

to the production of evidence founded on any notion of varance or insufficiency of allegation on the part of plaintiff. Had
any such objection been made it might have been obviated
by amendment in -some form or upon some terms under the
ample powers of amendment conferred by the Code of Procedure. It would therefore be highly unjust, as well as
unsupported by authority, to shut out from consideration the
case as proved, by reason of defects in the statements of the
complainant. Indeed, it is difficult to conceive of a case in
which, after a trial and decision of the controversy, as appearmg on the proofs, when no question has been made during
the trial in respect to their relevancy under the pleadings, it
would be the duty of a court, or within its rightful authority,
to deprive the party of his recovery on the ground of incompleteness or imperfection of the pleadings."
No injustice is done the appellant by thus disposing of this
objection, because the facts conclusively show that the written
contract between the parties was not annulled or a new one
substituted, but that it was substantially executed - the defendant simply accepting other conditions than those stipulated
in its favor and delivering a deed as. averred in the complaint.
Upon the facts as found, we are satisfied that the court
below committed no error in its decree, and it is accordingly
Afinmw.d.

