CASES ADJUDGED
U

TM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.

THE T E. RUMBELL.1
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES. omCUIT COURT OF APPEAL
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
N6. 1117. "Submitted October 14, 1892.-Decided March 6, 1893.

In the admiralty and maritime law of the United States th"following propositions are established by the decisions of this Court:
(1) For necessary repairs or supplies furnished to a vessel in a foreigu
port, a lien is given by the general -maritime law, following the
civil law, and may be enforced in admiralty;
(2) For repairs or supplies in the home port of-the vessel, no lien exists,
or can be enforced i1iadmiralty, under the general law, independently of local statute;
(3) Whenever the statute of. a State gives a lien, to be enforced by
process ?zrem against the vessel, for repairs or supplies in her,
home port, this lien, being similar to the lien arising in a foreign
port uder the general law, is in the nature of a maritime lien,
'and therefore may be enforced in admiralty m the courts 'ofthe
United States;
(4) Tins lien, in the nature of a. maritime lien, and to be enforced by
process in the nature of admiralty process, is 'within.the exclusive
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, sitting in admiralty.
"The docket title of this case is George C. Finney et al. Apelluit, r.
F. August Botch et al.
VOL. CXLVIU-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
In the admiralty courts of the United States, a lien upon a vessel- for
nqcessary supplies and repairs in her home port, given by the statute of
a State, and to be.enforced by proceedings n rem in the nature of adnuralty process, takes precedence of a prior mortgage, recorded under
section 4192 of the Revised Statutes.

Tiiis was a certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit under the act of Mardh 3, 1891, c, 517,
§ 6, (26 Stat. 828.) of a question upon which it desired the instruction of this court, in an admiralty appeal. The case, as
stated in the certificate, was as follows
On August 15, 1891, under a writ of venditzon exponas
from the District Court of the United States for the Northeru
District of Illinois, in admiralty, the propeller J. E. Rumbell
was sold by the marshal for the sum of $1850, and the proceeds were paid into the registry of the courb.
On August 21, 1891, F' August Reich and August Reich,
partners under the name of F A. Reich & Son, former owners
of the ve sel, who had sold and delivered her to Michael C.
Hayes on April 23, 1891, filed a petition against those proceeds, claiming the sum of,$3000, and interest, due upon notes
given to them by Hayes for the purchase money, and secured
by mortgage of the vessel, executed by Hayes to them on the
day of the sale, and, recorded on the same day in the office of
the collector of customs of the port of Chicago, the residence
of the owner and the home port of the vessel, under section
4192 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. In that
mortgage it was provided that if at any time there should be
any default of payment, or if the mortgagees should deem
themselves in danger of losing any part of the debt by delaying its collection until the tiine limited for its payment, or if
the mortgagor should suffer the vessel to ran in debt beyond
the sum of $150, the mortgagees might immediately take possession of the vessel and, after ten days' notice to the mortgagor, sell her to satisfy the mortgage debt. The petition of
the mortgagees alleged that each of these contingencies had
happened.
On September 16, 1891, George C. Finney and others~iled
a petition against said proceeds, for sums due to the petitioners

THE J. E. RUMBELL.
Argument for Appellees.

severally, and amounting in all to $1108.56, for shipchandler's
supplies,- engineer's supplies, groceries, provisions, fuel, lumber
and repairs, bought for and furnished to the vessel at the port
of Chicago, since the recording of the mortgage, and used for
the benefit of the vessel, and alleged to have been reasonable
and proper to be furnished and done, and also. for the sum of
$220 due to Patrick Bowe, one of these petitioners, for services
as master of the vessel, since the recording of the mortgage,
":for which supplies, repairs and services" (the certificate
stated) "there was a lien upon the said vessel under the laNVS
of the State of Illinois."
The District Court found and adjudged that the sums
claimed in each petition were due to the petitioners respectively that in the distribution of the proceeds the claim of'
the mortgagees, Reich & Son, should have priority over that
of the other petitioners, Finney and others, and that the -entire
proceeds of the sale of the vessel, amounting (after payment
of seamen's Wages and preferred claims for towage and salvage) to $1105.59, should be paid to the mortgagees.
Finney and others appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which certified to this court the following question "Whether
a claim arising upon a vessel mortgage -is to be preferred to
the claim for supplies and necessaries furnished to a vessel in
its home port in the State of Illinois subsequently to the date
of the recording of the mortgage "
.Mr

a

. -Remer for appellants.

-. r Charles .E. Pope for appellees.
I. The appellants, had no lien under the general 'maritime
law, and the contracts under which they furnished the supplies
are not maritime contracts.
It has been repeatedly held by this' court, by the Supreme
Court of Illinois and by other tribunals, that persons furnishiug repairs and supplies to a vessel in her.home port, do not
acquire thereby any lien upon the vessel by the general.
maritime law,.as received in the United States. The Lofla-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

wanna, 21 Wall. 558, Tug Boat, E. P Dorr v. Waldron, 62
Illinois, 221, The .Mary Bell, -1Sawyer, 135, The Jose hzne
Spangler, 9 Fed. Rep. 773, The .MarceliaAnn, 34 Fed. Rep.
142, The .Madrzd,40 Fed. Rep. 677.
The reasons why a maritime lien is given for supplies
furnished in a foreign port, are obvious. To promote comnerce and enable vessels in a foreign port to procure without
delay needed supplies, there is a necessity for the pledging of
the credit of the vessel. Vessel owners usually have no credit
in a foreign port, and, if material-men in a foreign port had
to inquire into the credit of the owner residing in the home
port, or ascertain whether any mortgage was or was not there
recorded, great delay and great loss to commerce would inevitably result. To make such inquiries iu the home -port, by
material-men residing there, would cause no loss or delay, but
would, an the contrary, save in many cases very great loss.
The -fadmzd, 40 Fed. Rep. 677.
There is no allegation or proof that the supplies, repairs
or services furnished in this case were necessary, or that they
were furnished on the credit of the vessel. Under.the general
maritime law a lien could not attach in the absence of those
facts. The Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 129, -Prattv..Reed, 19 Iow
359, The Zady Franklin,1 Bissell, 557, Williamson v. Hfogan,
In
46 Illinois, 50-4, The -Rap2dTransit, 11 Fed. Rep. 32.
the opinion in the latter case it is said ",It seems to me a fair
implication that whenever a State attaches a lien to a maritime contract to be enforced in the admiralty, whatever would
operate under the maritime law of that court to waive, forfeit
or postpone a lien of like character, whether considered in its
relation to liens of another grade or in its relation to other
liens in the same grade, should have the same effect on the lien
created by the State, and that it is intended that .the strict
letter of the statute should be so construed."
I. The appellants have no lien other than the one given
by the Illinois Statute of 1874, and such lien is subject to the
prior mortgage of appellees.
Being a statutory and not a maritime lien, the question of
its effect and extent depends, in a very great measure, upon

THE J. E RUMBELL.
Argument for Appellees..

the statute creating it. The statutes of the various States
differ materially in their several requirements necessary to
create a lien, and also in the extent and effect of the lien
created. These different requirements have been recognized
by the Supreme Court of the United States in 'the case of The
Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, where the requirement of the
Louisiana statute for the recording of a lien not having been
complied with, it was held 'that no lien was obtained. And
in the case of The Edith, 94 U. S. 518, it was held that the
rights of the parties under the New York statute were
governed and limited by the provisions of that statute. See
also 'he Maredia Ann, 34: Fed. Rep. 142.
In 1869, Judge Drummond, in deciding The Grace Greenwood,. 2 Bissell, 131, said that,'under the Illinois Statutes, such
a mortgage as that of appellees would be "a valid and binding security upon the property, and one which the claims of
material-men, under the state law, cannot supersede or override, and that the mortgage took precedence over supplies in
the home port."
Judge Drummond again decided the same question in the
sameway in the case of The Skylark, '2 Bissell, 251, and said
"I wish it distinctly'understood that I shall not hold, unless
told to do so by the Supreme Court of the United States, that
every claim which a state legislature may declare to be a lien
against a vessel, shall override a mortgage properly recorded
under the law of Congress."
In the case of The .K.ate Hinchmala, Judge Blodgett, in
the District Court, decided the same way On appeal to the
Circuit Court, Judge Drummond affirmed the decree of the
District Court, and said, that although a lien existing only
by the state law could be enforced in admiralty, "it by no
means follows that, because a law of the State gave a lien,
It seems to me, as
it is superior to a mortgage.
between these different liens existing in this case, that of the
mortgage is paramount." 7 Bissell, 238.
Since the first decision of Judge Drummond in 1869, the
question has been decided repeatedly in the Seventh Circuit
in the'same way, in spite of the numerous times when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for- Appellees.

proctors, fAr negligent material-men, have endeavored to
obtain the adoption of a contrary decision. Appeals have
been taken from the District Court and argued four times irt
the Circuit Court of the Seventh Circuit, on one occasion
before Justice Harlan, but the judges hearing such appeals.
have invariably refused to reverse the former decisions.
Upon two occasions the question has been passed upon. by
the Supreme Court of Illinois, and decided in the same way,
In the case of The Great West (Yo. 2) v Oberndorf, 57
Illinois, 168, the court held that the lien of the material-men
upon vessels for supplies furnished in the home port was
inferior to that of a prior mortgage. Thi§ decision was
followed by that of The Hilton v 2Ifiller, 62 Illinois, 230, in
which the court says, that a prior mortgage of a vessel has
precedence of the lien of a material-man subsequently acquired, is settled by the case of the Barque Great. West (No 2)
v Oberndorf,57 Illinois, 168. The Illinois law, at the time of
these decisions, was construed in the case last mentioned to
create a lien on the vessel, which is all that the present statute
of 1874 does.
The liens given, m the various States are given by widely
different statutes. The rule in Louisiana, for instance, is
essentially different, from that of Illinois. The lien given by
the Illinois statute is a secret one, existing for the period of
nine months without requiring any notice to be given of it to
any person, or the filing or recording of any such notice. The
statute of Louisiana on the contrary, provides that such lien
shall have no prefevence over third persons, unless it has been
recorded in the parish where the vessel is, on the day when
tihe contract was entered into. In the case of The -Lottawanna,
already cited, this recording was held essential to obtaining
any lien.
The statutes of many other States also require, as a condition
to the maintenance of a lien in similar cases, the filing or
recording of a notice of the lien.
In North Carolina notice of the lieni has to be filed in. the
same manner as notices of other statutory liens are.
In Massachusetts the lien is conditioned upon the filing of

THE J. E. RUMBELL.
Argument for Appellees.

a sworn statement of the claim with the clerk of the city or
to~yn where the vessel was, within four days after the vessel
departs. from port.
In South Carolina a similar statement has to be filed with
the clerk of-the Court of Common Pleas within the same time.
In Maryland also a statement of the claim must be filed
under oath with the clerk of the Circuit Court.
In New York specifications of any- such claim must be filed
in the office of the clerk of the county in which the debts
were contracted, and in. the office of the auditor of the canal
department, within thirty days after the debt was contracted.
In Pennsylvania the lien continues ,only between- the contracting of such debts and the time, when the. vessel proceeds
on her next voyage.
In Mississippi the case of The Josevh'tne.iSpangler 9 Fed.
Rep. 773, held, that materials and supplies furnished at the
home port areonly liens, by force of the State's statutes, ,and
therefore do not stand on the same ,footin g with maritime
liens, so that their priority depends upon whether they attach
before or after the mortgage lien commenced. This position
is sustained by Judge Drummond in The GC.ace q-reenwood,
which was followed by Judge Blodgett in The Kate Hinchain, and again by Judge. Woods in The .John, T -Moore, 3
Woods, 61. This is still the rule in Mississippi-and Maryland.
The _MarceZia Ann, above cited. See also as to the law of
Ohio, Scott's Case, 1 Abbott U. S. 336.
Not only do the various state statutes differ in regard to
the giving of notice of the lien claim, but they also .differ
materially in the effect and scope of the lien.
In Maryland the lien is not entitled to priority over a prior
mortgage or bill oft.sale. In Vermont it has "precedence of
all other claims and liens." In Pennsylvania it is to be "in
preference to any other debt .due .from the owners" of the
vessel. In New York it isprovided that it shall be preferred
to all other liens thereon, except mariner's wages. The Canada, 7 Fed. Rep. 730. In Massachusetts the lien is "preferred
to all others on such vessel except that for mariner's wages."
And so also in South Carolina. The fsland City, 1 Lowell,

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellee.

375. In Missouri such liens shall have precedence of all other
]liens and claims against such boat or vessel. In Kentucky the
statute of 1852 gave the local lien preference over all other
liens of like character, for work done out of the State (Kentucky), thus preferring them to maritime liens for supplies.
The Rapid Travnsit, 11 Fed. Rep. 332. In Oregon the liens
have precedence over all other liens and claims against such
b~at or vessel. In California they have preference over all
other demands. The crison, 1 Sawyer, 353.
The statute of Illinois simply gives "a lien," so that no
decision can be properly considered as contrary to the decisions
n Illinois unless it appears that it was rendered- upon a state
statute in all respects similar to that of Illinois, giving a
simple secret lien.
In 1872 the same question was presented for decision, in the
Privy Council on appeal from the High Court of Admiralty,
in the case of The Two Ellens, L. R. 4 P C. 161. In an intej~esting opinion Lord 3ustice 'Mellish then said, p. 166
"There have been several cases in the Court of Admiralty on
this point, and the decisions are to a certain extent conflicting.
The question has to be determined by their lordships,
and it may be said, perhaps, that as far as authority is concerned, the authorities are very equally .balanced." After a
full discussion of the English cases the court decided in favor
of the priority of the mortgage over claims for repairs and
supplies.
In 1884 the question was again presented to the Privy
Council, and decided in the same way, in the case of The
Rito Tinto, 9 App. Cas. 356, so that the law of England as
settled by the court of last resort is now that the claim of
the mortgagee is superior to that of the domestic lien holder.
III. By repeated decisions in the Seventh Circuit, the priority of a prior mortgage over home supplies has become established, as the lex for, and such priority is a right of property The _ottawanna and The 3adruZ, above cited.
Whether one lien is entitled to priority over another depends upon the lex fort. The Union, Lush. 128, The Selah,
4 Sawyer, 40. The priority of liens in admiralty is according

THE J. E. RUMBELL
Opinion of the Court.

-to that given by the lex fo,&, and is regulated by that law
exclusively. Graf K-lot _Trautvetter, &Fed; Rep. 833.
GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
Mir. JusTa
opinion of the court.
By the admiralty.law, maritime liens or privileges for necessary advances madej or supplies furnished, to keep a vessel fit
for sea, take precedence of all prior claims upon her, unless
for seamen's wages or salvage. It is upon this ground, that
such advances or supplies, made or furnished in good faith to
the master in a foreign port, are preferred to a prior mortgage,
or to a forfeiture to the United States for a precedent violation
of the nvigation laws. TIe St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409,
416, The Emily Sowder, 17 Wall. 666, 672.
In The St. Jago de Cuba, Mr. Justice Johnson in delivering
judgmefit, and speaking of the lien of material-men and other
implied liens under maritime contracts, said. "The whole
object of giving admiralty process and priority of payment to
privileged creditors is to furnish wings and legs to" the vessel,
"to get back for the benefit of all concerned, that is, to complete .her voyage." "In every caqe, the last lien given will
supersede the proceeding. The last bottomry bond will ride
over all that precede it, and an hbandonment to a salvor will
supersede every prior claim. The vessel must get on , this is
the consideration which .controls every other; and not only
the vessel, but even the cargo, is. cub modo subjected to this
9 Wheat; 416.
necessity"
In The Yankiee Blad , 19 How 82, 89, 90, Mr. Justice Grier,
speaking for this court, said. "The maritime privilege or lien
is adopted from the civil, law, and imports a tacit hypotheca-us
z -re, without actual
tion of the subject of it. It-is a
possession or any Tight of possession. It accompanjes the
:property into th bands:of a bovx-fle purchaser. It can be
executed and divested only by a proceeding sn rem. This sort
of proceeding against personal property is unknown to the
common law, and. is peculiar to the process of courts of
admiralty The-foreign and, other attachments of property in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the state courts, though by analogy loosely termed proceedings tnr'em, are evidently not within the category"
"These
principles will be found stated, and fully vindicated by authority, in the cases of The Young .Akchanw, 2 Curtis C. C.
404, and T/ie .Tiersage, 2 Curtis C. C. 421."
Both the decisions of Mr. Justice Curtis, thus referred to,
depended on a statute of Maine, giving in general terms a lien
upon a vessel for labor performed or materials furnished in her

construction or repair, without undertaking to fix the comparative precedence of such liens.
In The Young Jfechanzw, after elaborate discussion of the
nature of such a lien, it was held to be ayus zn re, a right of
property in the thing itself, existing independently of possession, "an appropriation made by the law, of a particular thing,
as security for a debt or claim,-the law creating an incumbrance thereon, and vesting in the creditor what we term a
spucial property in the thing, which subsists from the moment
when the debt-or claim arises, and accompanies the thing even
into the hands of a purchaser." "Though tacitly created by
the law, and to be executed only by the aid of a court of
justice, and resulting in a judicial sale, it is as really a property
in the thing, as the right of a pledgee, or the lien of a bailee
for work," and is not "only a privilege to arrest the vessel for
the debt, which, of itself, constitutes no incumbrance on the
vessel, and becomes such only by virtue of an actual attachment." 2Curtis C. C. 406, 410, 412.
In Te Ifiersage, Mr. Justice Curtis held that the lien for
labor and materials in the home port had precedence over a
prior mortgage, and, after observing that, as he had held in
The Young Afiechaiuc, this lien "1was, in substance, a tacit
hypothecatmon of the vessel, as security for the debt, " "a ju
sn re, constituting an incumbrance on the property by operation of law," he added "And there can be no doubt that it
takes effect wholly irrespective of the state of the title to the
vessel. Whether ihe vessel belongs to one or more personswhether the title has been so divided that one is a special and
another a general owner, and however it may be incumbered,
the law gives the lien on the thing. The mortgagees can have

THE J E. RUMBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

no claim to be ,preferred over the lien-holder because of their
priority in time, for their interest in the vessel is as much subject to the statute lien, as the interest of any other party It
is not in the power of the owner, by his voluntary act, to
withdraw any part of the title from the operation of the lien,
'if he could, he might altogether defeat it." 2 Curtis C. 0.
422, 423..
It was assumed in each of those cases that a lien, given by
the local law, for buildinig a ship, stood on the same ground
as a lien, under the same law,.,for repairing her: It has since
been decided, and is now settled, that a contract for building
a ship, being a contract made on land and to be performed on
'land, is not a maritime contract, and that a lien to secure it,
given by local statute, is not a maritime lien, and cannot,
therefore, be enforced fa admiralty The JTeferson, 20 How.
393, The Capitol, 22 How 129, Edwards v Elliott, 21 Wall.
532. That fact, however, does not affect the strength of the
reasoning, or the pustness of the conclusions, of Mr. Justice
Curtis, as regards liens for repairs and supplies, and, in relation to such liens, his view has been generally accepted in the
admiralty courts of the United States.
"A maritime lien, unlike a lien at common law, may," saidMr. Justice Field, speaking for this court, "exist without.possession of the thing upon which it is asserted, either actual or
constructive. It confers, however, upon its holder such a right
in the thing, that he may subject it to condemnation and sale
to satisfy his claim or damages." "The only object of, the
proceedings sn ren is to make this right, where it exists available- to carry it into effect. It subserves n6 other purpose."
The Rock Island Bridge, 6 Wall. 213, 215. And in The Lottawanna,Mr. Justice Bradley,. speaking of a lien given by a.
statute of Louisiana for repairs and supplies, said "a lien -s a
right of property, and not a mere matter of procedure." 21
Wall. 558, 579.
In the admiralty and maritime law'of the United States, as
declared and established by the decisions of this .court, the
following propositions are no longer doubtful
KIst. For necessary repairs or supplies furnished to a vessel

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

in a foreign port, a lien is given by the general maritime law,
following- the civil law, and may be enforced in admiralty
The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438, 443, The St. Jago de Cuba,
9 Wheat. 409, 417, The Virgin, 8 Pet. 538, 550, The Laura,
19 How 22, The Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 129, The Iulu, 10 Wall.
192, The .Ealorama,10 Wall. 204.
2d. For repairs .or supplies in the home port of the vessel,
no lien exists, or can be enforced in admiralty, under the general law, independently of local statute. The Genepal Smith,
and The St. Jago de Cuba, above cited, The -Lottawanna,21
Wall. d58, The Edith, 94 U. S. 518.
3d. Whenever the statute of a State- gives a lien, to be
enforced by process sn Pen against the vessel, for repairs or supplies in her home port, this lien, being similar to the lien arising
in a foreign port under the general law,.is in the nature of a
maritime lien, and therefore may be enforced in admirafty in
the courts of the United States. The Planter,7 Pet. 324, The
St. Lawrence, 1 Bla6k, 522, The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558,
579; 580, Rule 12 in Admiralty, as amended in 1872, 13
Wall. xiv
4th. This lien, in the nature of a maritime lien, and to be
enforced by process in the nature of admiralty process, is
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States, sitting in. admiralty The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411,
The Hine, 4 Wall. 555, The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, The .Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 580, fohnson v. Chwago Elevator Co.,
119 U. S. 388, 397.
Thd fundamental reasons on whicl these propositions rest
may be summed up thus The admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is conferred on the courts of the United States by the
Constitution; and cannot be enlarged or restricted by the legislation of a State. No State legislation, therefore, can bring
within the admiralty jurisdiction of the national courts a subject
not maritime in its nature. But when a right, maritime in its
nature, and to be enforced by process in the nature of -admiralty process, has been given by the statute of a State, the
admiralty courts of the United States have jurisdiction, and
exclusive jurisdiction, to. enforce that'right according .to their

THE J. E. lUMBELL
Opinion of the Court.

own rules of procedure. See, in addition to the cases above
cited, The Orleans, 11 Pet. 175, 184, Ex parte _akNiel, -13
Wall. 236, 243, The Corsar,145 U. S. 335, 347.
The settled rules of jirisdiction and practice on this subject were stated by Mr. Justice Bradley in The Lottawanna
as follows "So long as Congress does not interpose to regulate the subject, the rights of material-men furnishing necessaries to a vessel in her home port may be regulated in each
State by state legislation. State laws, it is true, cannot
exclude the contract for furnishing such necessaries from the
domain of admiralty jurisdiction, for it is a maritime contract,
and they cannot alter the limits of that jurisdiction, nor can
they confer it upon the state courts so as to enable them to
proceed n 'em for the enforcement of liens created by such
state laws, for it is exclusively conferred upon the District
Courts of the United States. They can only authorize the
enforcement thereof by common law remedies, or such remedies as are equivalent thereto. But the District Courts of
the United States, having jurisdiction of the contract as a
maritime one, may enforce liens given for its security, even
when created by the state laws." 21 Wall. 580.
By the Revised Statutes of Illinois of 1874, c. 12, § 1, every
sailing vessel, steamboat or other water craft of above five
tons burthen, used or intended to be used in navigating the
waters of the State, or used in trade and commerce between
ports and places within the State, or having her home port in
the State, "shall be subject to a lien thereon" for all debts
contracted by her owner or master on account of supplies and
provisions furnished for her use, or of work done or services
rendered on bQard of her "by any seaman, master or other
employe thereof," or "of work done or materials furnished by
mechanics, tradesmen or others, in or about the building,
repairing, fitting, furnishing or equipping such craft," and also
for sums due for wharfage, towage, or the like, or upon contracts of affreightment, and damages for injuries to persons or
property By §§ 3, 4, the lieu may be enforced by a petition
filed in a court of record in the county where the vessel is
found, within five years, but cannot be enforced "as against

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

or to the prejudice of any other creditor, or subsequent incumbrancer or bonafide purchaser," unless the petition is filed
within nine months after the debt accrues or becomes due.
By §§ 5-8, upon the filing of the petition, and of a bond from
the petitioner to the owner of the vessel to prosecute the suit
with effect, or, in case of failure to do so, to pay all costs and
damages caused to the owner or other persons interested in
tne vessel by the vrongful suing out of the attachment, a
writ of attachment is to issue to the sheriff to seize and keep
the vessel. By §§ 10, 11, notice is to be given to the owners
in.person, and by publication to all other persons interested,
and they may intervene to protect their interests. By §§
15-17, the vessel may be delivered up to the owner, or to any
other person interested, upon his giving bond, or making a
deposit of money By § 19, the owner and other claimants
are to file answers. By §§ 21-27, upon judgment for the
petitioner, the vessel, if-remaining in custody, is to be sold by
the sheriff, and the proceeds (deducting certain costs) are to
be applied, first, to the wages due to seamen, including the
master, for certain periods, and then to all other claims, filed
before the distribution, on which judgment has been rendered
in favor of the claimant, and to any balance due to seamen,
and any remnant is to be applied, first, to all other liens enforceable under the statute before distribution, second, to all
nmortgages or other incumbrances of the vessel by the owner,
"in proportion to the interest they cover and priority; " third,
to judgments at law or decrees in chancery against the owner;
and any surplus to the owner.
It thus appears that, for all supplies or provisions furnished
for the use of a vessel, or for work done and materials furnished in repairing her, in her home port, the statute gives a
lien upon the vessel, to be enforced by proceedings sn Tern,
analogous to such proceedings in admiralty
In the present case, the District Court has found and adjudged that the sums claimed by the appellants for supplies,
repairs and services were due to them, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals has stated in its certificate that for these supplies,
repairs and services there was a lien upon the vessel under the

THE J E. RUMBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of the State of Illinois; and has certified to this court
the single question "whether a.-claim arising upon -a vessel
mortgage is to be preferred to the claim for supplies and
necessaries furnished to a vessel in its home port iih the'State
of Illinois subsequently to the date of the recording of the
mortgage."
It must be assumed, therefore, for the purpose of deciding
this question, that all the claims of the appellants for -supplies
and repairs were contracted under such circumstances, that a
lien upon the vessel for their payment existed under the statute
of Illinois, and should be enforced in admiralty by the courti
of the United States against the proceeds of the vessel, unless
the mortgagees are entitled to priority in the distribution.
An ordinary mortgage of a vessel, whether made. to secure
the purchase money upon the sale thereof, or to raise money
for general purposes, is not a maritime contract. A court of
admiralty, therefore, has no jurisdiction of a libel to foreclose
it, or to -assert either title or right of possession under it. The
John Jay, 17 How 399, The Eclipse, 135 U S. 599, 608.
But it has jurisdiction, after a vessel has been sold by its
order, and the proceeds have been paid into the registry, to
pass upon the clan of the mortgagee, as of any other person,
to the fund, and to determine the priority of the various
claims, upon petitions such as were filed by the mortgagees
and the material-men im this case. The Globe, 3 How 568,
5T3, The Angelique, 19 How 239, The Lottawanna, 21 Wall.
558, 582, 583, IRule 43 in Admiralty
The appellees rely on section 4192 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, which substantially reenacts the act of
July 29, 1850, c. 27, .§ 1, (9 Stat. 440,) and is as follows "No
bill of sale, mortgage_ hypothecation or conveyance of any
vessel, or part of any vessel, of the United States shall be valid
against any person other than the grantor or mortgagor, his
heirs and devisees, and persons having actual notice thereof;
unless such bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation or conveyance
is recorded in the office of the collector of the customs where
such vessel is registered or enrolled. The lien by bottoinry on
any vessel, created during her voyage, by a loan of money'or

OCTOBER TERAf, 1&92.
Opinion of the Court.

materials, necessary to repair or enable her to prosecute a voyage, shall not, however, lose its priority, or be in any way affected by the provisions of this section."
The appellees contend that no lien created by the legislature
of a State can override a prior mortgage recorded under this
act of Congress.
But that enactment is a mere registry act, intended to prevent mortgages and other conveyances of vessels from having
any effect (which they might have had before) against persons
other than the grantor or mortgagor, and those claiming
under him, or haying actual notice thereof, unless recorded as
therein provided. lTte's Bank v. miatti, 'I Wall. 646,
Aldricw v. zEtna Co., 8 Wall. 491. It manifests no intention
to confer upon the mortgagee any new right, or to make the
mortgage a maritime contract, or the lien created thereby a
maritime lien, or in any way to interfere with maritime contracts or liens, or with the jurisdiction and procedure in admiralty The only mention of any other lien on the vessel is of
a bottomry bond, in the latter part of the section, originally
inserted in the form of a proviso, and with the obvious purpose of precluding the possibility of construing such a bond
to be an hypothecation, within the meaning of the previous
clause, and therefore required to be recorded. And, as was
well observed in The William T Graves, 14 Blatchford, 189,
195, by Judge Johnson "If this proviso be construed to
mean that such a lien only is out of the purview of the statute,
and that all other liens are postponed to that of a mortgagee,
then the claims of salvors, and all those having other strictly
maritime liens, would be thus postponed, to the subversion of
the whole principle upon which efficacy is given to such claims,
and the overthrow of the best settled and most salutary principles of the maritime law. Indeed, any principle, upon which
this statute can be expounded to give such a priority to a
recorded mortgage, would also extend to bills of sale and other
conveyances recorded under the same law, and thus practically
overthrow the whole scheme of maritime law upon the subject
of maritime liens."
In The Lottawanna, the mortgage was preferred to the

-THE J. E. RUMBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

claim of the material-men in the home. port, only because the
latter had not recorded their lien as required by the law of
the State to make it valid, 'and it was clearly implied in the
opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Bradleyl as well
as distinctly asserted in the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice
Clifford, that their lien, if valid, would take precedence of the
mortgage. 21 Wall. 578, 579, 5"82, 608. And, as already
stated at the outset of this opinion, the same rule was laid
down in the opinion of Mr. Justice Curtis in The Hiersage,2
Curtis 0. C. 421, approved by this court in The Yankee-Blade,
19 How 82.
The appellees rely on a line of cases in the courts of the
United States held in Illinois, beginning with a decision of
Judge Drummond in 1869, and upon similar cases in the
Supreme Court of the State, as establishing, as a rule of
property, that a mortgage takes precedence of a lien forsupplies afterwards furnished to a vessel in her home port
under the statute of Illinois. The Grace Greenwood, (1869)
2 Bissell, 131, The Skylark, (1870) 2 Bissell, 251, .The K-ate
Jfinchman,(1875) 6'Bissell. 367, and (1876) 7 Bissell, 238, The
Great "West 21o. 2 v Oberidorf,(1870) 57 Illinois, 168, Te
filton v. Afiller, (1871) 62 Illinois, 230.
But the question in controversy depends upon principles of
general jurisprudence, and upon the true construotion of an
act of Congress, and arises in the courts of the United States
exercising the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction exclusively
vested in them by the Constitution. Upon such a question,
neither the decisions of the highest court of a State, nor those
of the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, can
relieve this court from the duty of exercising its own judgment. iZveryool Steazm Co. v. Phenaxl&s. Co., 129 U. S.
397, 443, Andrews v. Hovey, 124 U. S. 694,.717.
Moreover, the rule preferring the lien for repairs or supplies
in a home port to a prior mortgage was recognized, even in the
Seventh Circuit, by Judge Dyer in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin in 1874, in
The J -A. Travis, 7 Chicago Legal News, 275, arid it appears
to prevail in every other judicialcircuit of the United States.
VOL. cxLvI-2

OCTOBE R TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

It has been upheld in the First Circuit, by Mr. Justice Curtis
in The Ifiersage, (1855) 2 Curtis C. C. 421, alreadv cited, and

by Judge Lowell in The .iland City, (1869) 1 Lowell, 375,379,
in the Second Circuit, ly Judge Wallace, and by Judge Johnson on. appeal, in The William T Graves, (1876) 8 Benedict
568, and (1877). 14 Blatchford, 189 in the Third Circuit, by
Judge McCandless, and by Mr. Justice Grier on appeal, in The
Collier, (1861) 2 Pittsburgh Rep. 304, 318, 320, and by Judge
26 Fed. Rep. 285, and in the
Acheson in The 'Fentu?'e,<(1885)
Fourth Circuit, by Judge Hughes in The Raleigh, (1876) 2
IH1ghes, 44, nd by Judge Seymour in Clyde v Steam, Transportation,Co., (1888) 36 Fed. Rep. 501. In The Alarcelia Ann,
(1887) 34: Fed. Rep. 142, Judge Bond gave priority to the
mortgage, because the statute of Mar'yland expressly so
provided.

In the Fifth Circuit, Mr. Justice Woods, then Circuit Judge,
while admitting that the lien of a mortgage duly recorded
was inferior to all strictly maritime liens, yet held that it was
superior to any subsequent lien for.supplies in the home port,
given by the legislation of a State. .The John T Moore,
(1877) 3 Woods, 61 The Bradish Johnson, (1878) 3 Woods,
582. IHis ruling was followed by Judge lill, who had previously decided otherwise in, The Emia, (1876) 3 Central Law
Journal,,285, and, with much doubt of its soundness, by Judge
Pardee. The JosepIne Spangler, (1881) 9 Fed. Rep. 773, and
11 Fed. llep. 440, The _De Smet, (1881) 10 Fed. Rep. 483.
But in a very recent case, Mr. Justice Lamar, upon full consideration, and with the concurrence of Judge Pardee, overruled those decisions in aclear and convincing opinion. The
fadrzd, (1889) 40 Fed. Rep. 677.
In the Sixth Circuit, Judge Sherman, sitting in bankruptcy,
held that a mortgage must be -preferred to a subsequent lien
for supplies under a state statute. Scott'& Case, (1869) 1
Abbott, (IT. S.) 336. But the opposite rule has since been
recognized as clearly established in admiralty in that circuit
by decisions of Judge Withey in The St. Joseplh, (1869) Brown
Adm:"202, and The Alice Getty, (1877) 2 Flippin, 18, of Judge
Hamond m The Illinozs, (1879) 2 Flippm, 383, 433, of Mr.

THE J. E. RUM=BELI.
Opinion of the Court.

Justice Brown, then District Judge, in The City of Tawas,
(1880) 3 Fed. Rep. 170 of Jddge Swing in The Gusding Star,
(1881) 9 Fed. Rep. 521 and of Mr. Justice Matthews and
Judge Baxter in the same case on appeal, (1883). 18 Fed. Rep.
263, 269.
The decisions in, the Eighth Circuit, by Judge Thayer in
The Myomzng, (1888) 35 Fed. Rep. 548, and in the Ninth
Circuit, by Judge .foffman in The Harrson,(1870) 1 Sawyer,
353, and Thie Hiawatha, (1878) -5 Sawyer, 160; and by Judge
Deady in 1he Canada,(1881) 7 Sawyer, 173, are to the same
effect.
According to the great preponderance of Amdrican authority, therefore, as well as upon settled principles, the lien
createod by the statute of a State, for repairs or supplies
furnished to a vessel in her home port, has the like precedence
over a prior mortgage, that is accorded to a lien for repairs or
supplies in a foreign port under the general maritime law, as
recognized and adopted in the United States. Each rests
upon the furnishing of supplies to the ship, on the credit of
the ship herself, to preserve her existence and secure her usefulness, for the benefit of all having any title or interest in.
her. Each creates a.js qn re, a right of property in the
vessel, existing independeritly of possession, and arising as
soon as the contract is made, and before the institution of
judicial proceedings to enforce it. The contract in each case
is maritime, and the lien which the law.gives to secure it is
maritime in its nature, and is enforced in admiralty by reason
of its. maritime nature only The mortgage, on the other
band, is not a maritime contract, and constitutes no maritime
lien, and the mortgagee can only share in the proceeds in the
registry after all maritime liens have been satisfied.
It would seem to follow that any priority given by the
statute of a State, or by decisions.at common law or in equitv,
is immaterial, and that the admiralty courts of the United
States, enforcing the lien because it is maritime in its nature,
arising upon a maritime contract, must give it the rank to
which it is entitled by the principles of the maritime and
admiralty law

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

As was forcibly said by Mr. Justice Matthews, in The
CGuding Star, above cited, "In enforcing the statutory lien
in maritime causes, admiralty courts do not adopt the statute
itself, or the construction placed upon it by courts of common
law or of equity, when they apply it. Everything required
by the statute, as a condition on which the lien arises and
vests, must, of courset be regarded by courts of admiralty,
fQr they can only act in enforcing a lien when the statute has,
according to its terms, conferred it, but beyond that the
statute, as such, does not furnish the rule for governing the
decision of the cause in admiralty, as between conflicting
claims and liens. The maritime law treats the lien, because
conferred upon a maritime contract by the statute, as if it
had been conferred by itself, and consequently upon the same
footing as all maritime liens,, the order of payment between
them being determinable upon its own principles." 18 Fed.
Rep. 268.
It is unnecessary, however, in this case, to dwell upon that
consideration, masmuch as the lien in question is given precedence over mortgages, by the express terms of the statute
of Illinois, as well as by the principles of the maritime law
and the practice in admiralty
The decisions in the Privy Council of England in The Two
Ellens, L. R. 4 P 0. 161, and The Rio Tinto, 9 App. Cas.
356, cited by the appellees, in which the claims of prior mortgagees were preferred to claims of material-men in the home
port, cannot affect our conclusion. Those decisions proceeded
upon the ground that the material-men had no yus ?n re,
because there was, by the law of England, no maritime lien
for supplies, and because the acts of Parliamnent were construed as having given no lien for them until the arrest of the
ship 'by admiralty process. The essential difference, in its
very nature, between the right of material-men in a court of
admiralty, under the law and statutes of England as judiciallv
declared and expounded, and their right, by virtue of a local
statute giving a maritime lien and a jus iz re, as recognized
in our own jurisprudence, is yet more clearly brought out in
a later case,, in which the Court of Appeal and the House of

