UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.

the present case was not required to withhold, and did not
withhold from the State anything that would otherwise be
due to the State.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
OLD SETTLERS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAflIS.
Nos. 1031, 1032. Argued December 13,14, 1S92. -Decided

April 3, 1893.

Finding of facts by the Court of Claims, in a suit which Congress has
authorized it to take jurisdiction of in equity, may be reviewed by this
court.
Congress has not authorized the courts in this litigation to go behind the
treaty of Augut 6, 1846, 9 .Stat. 871, with the Cherokee Nation.
So far as there is a conflict between the treaties with the Cherokees and
subsequent acts of Congress, the latter must prevail.
The contention made by the Western Cherokees as to the ownership of land
to the west of the Mississippi was put to rest by the treaty of 1846, and
cannot now be revived.
The rule that, when a party without force or intimidation and with a .full
knowledge of all the icts in-the case, accepts on account of an unliquidated and controverted demand a sum lees than what he claims and
believes to be due him,'and agrees to accept that sum in full satisfaction,
he will not be permitted to avoid his act on the ground of duress, does
not apply in this case, as it is evident that Congress was convinced that
a mistake had been made, and intended to afford an opportunity to have
it corrected.
On examining the account 'between the United States and the Western
Cherokees, this court finds some small errors in the statement of it as
made by the Court of Claims, and, after correcting those errors, it agrees
with the Court of Claims that interest should be allowed on all but.a
.small part of it, and orders the judgment, as thus corrected, to be
affirmed.

TmE original petition was filed JMarch 8, 1889, and the substituted petition, January 23, 1890, and thereby the petitioners,
Bryan, Wilson and Hendricks, purporting to act for -themselves, and as the commissioners of the "Old Settlers," or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"Western Cherokee" Indians, represented that the latter are
that part of the Cherokee race of Indians which formerly
composed the Western Cherokee Nation, and which subsequently became known as the "Old Settlers," and that for the
purpose of prosecuting their claims against the United States
government they had appointed Bryan, Wilson and Hendricks
as their commissioners to represent and in their names and for
their benefit to do and perform any and all acts and things
necessary and proper to be done by them in the premises,
that the suit was brought under the provisions of the act of
Congress approved February 25, 1889, entitled "An act to
authorize the Court of Claims to hear, determine and render
final judgment upon the claim of the Old Settlers or Western
Cherokee Indians," 25 Stat. 694, c. 238, and which is as
follows
"That the claim of that part of the Cherokee Indians,
known as the Old Settlers or Western Cherokees, against the
United States, which claim was set forth in the report of the
Secretary of the Interior to Congress of February third, eighteen hundred and eighty-three, (said report being made under
act of Congress of August seventh, eighteen hundred and
eighty-two,) and contained in Executive Document Number
Sixty of the second session of the Forty-seventh Congress, be,
and the same hereby is, referred to the Court of Claims for
adjudication, and -jurisdictmon is hereby conferred on said
court to try said cause, and to determine what sum or sums of
money, if any, are justly due from the United States to said Indians, aiising from or growing out. of treaty stipulations and
acts of Congress relating thereto, after deducting all payments
heretofore actually made to said Indians by the United States,
either in money or property, and after deducting all off-sets,
counter-claims and deductions of any and every kind and
character which should be allowed to the United States under
any valid provision or provisions in said treaties and laws contained, or to which the United States may be otherwise entitled, and after fully considering and determining whether or
not the said Indians have heretofore adjuste hand settled their,
said claim with the United States, it being the intention of

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statemefit of the Case.

this act to allow the said Court of Claims unrestricted latitude
in adjusting and determining the said claim, so that the rights,
legal and equitable, both of the United States and of said
Indians, may be fully considered and determined, and to try
and determine all questions that may arise in such cause on
behalf of either party thereto and render final judgment
thereon, and the Attorney General is hereby directetl~to
appear in behalf of the government, and if said court shall
decide against the United States, the Attorney General shall,
within sixty days from the rendition of judgment, appeal the
cause to the Supreme Court of the United States, and from
any judgment that may be rendered, the said Indians m,y also
appeal to said Supreme Court. Provded, That the appeal of
said Indians shall be taken within sixty days after the rendition of said judgment, and said courts shall give such. cause
precedence P'ovdedfurther That nothing m this act shall
be accepted or construed as a confession that the government
of the United States is indebted to said Indians.
"SEc. 2. That said action shall be commenced by a petition
stating"the facts on which said Indians claim to recover, and.
the amount of their claim, and said .petition may be verid.
by the authorized agent or attorney of said Indianas tothe.
existence of such facts, aid no other statement need be 'con-s
tamed in said petition or verification."
And it was thereupon ayerred..that under the -pro.lo"ns-of
certain treaties, made'and entered
into i- 181" and'184kThe:
Western Q6,erokees, or Old Settlers, soil, ceded andr6linquished,.
and there was conveyed to the United States, all their right,
title and interest in and to all the-lands belonging to thein
situated in the States east of the Mississippi, and in consideration thereof the United States sold them certainlands, situated
in what is now the State of Arkansas ;. that in consideration of
the subsequent sale and cession of the lands in Arkansas toth6
United States, and in further consideration of the-removal of
the Western Nation of Cherokees from the Stataeof Arkansas,
under the provisions of the treaties of May 6, 1828, and February 14, 1833, between the Western Cherokee Nation and the
United States, the latter bargained, sold, ceded, relinquished

OCTOBER TERMT, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

and conveyed, solely and exclusively to the Western Cherokee
Nation, subsequently known as the Old Settlers, all the lands
situated in the now Indian Territory, and described in the
treaties of 1828 and 18-33, and solemnly guaranteed the lands
to them forever. That while in the peaceable and undisputed
possession and enjoyment of the tract of land, in the now
Indih.n Territory, the United States -underthe color of a pretended treaty with the Eastern Cherokee Nation in 1835, made
and entered into without the knowledge or consent of.the Western Cherokee Nation, and to which it was not a party, and from
the provisions of which it was prevented from protecting itself
by force and fraud on the part of the United States, granted
to the Eastern Cherokees the same lands that were sold and
conveyed to the Western Cherokee Nation, without the consent and against the wishes and in fraud and violation of the
rights of the latter, and removed -the Eastern Cherokees
against their will and by force of arms from their homes east
of the Mississippi, and located them upon the lands belonging
to the Western, Cherokees, thus depriving them of the sole use,
right to and interest in the lands as guaranteed by treaty, and
reserving to them only an interest in proportion to their numbers, they being but one-third of the whole Cherokee people,
that from that time and continually thereafter the Western
Cherokees protested against and resisted this invasion of their
rights, until in 1846, when acting under duress of life, liberty
and property, advantage being also taken by the United States
of the fiduciary relations existing towards the Western Cherokees, and also of the condition of extreme impoverishment,
destitution and want to which the Western Cherokees had
been reduced by the United States, they were forced to make
and enter into an agreement with the United States fraudulent
in character, by the terms of which the consideration they
were to- receive was grossly inadequate to compensate them
for their right toand interest in the lands, of which they had
been unjustly deprived by- the United States, and for the
property destroyed and lost to them through. the wrongful
acts of the United States, and its default to comply with its
treaty obligations. It was further alleged that the land. so

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.

431

Statement of the Case.
bargained, sold, relinquished and conveyed to the Western
Cherokees by the treaties of 1828 and 1833 contained in all
13,610,795.34 acres, and that the Western Nation of Cherokees
formed but one-third of the whole Cherokee race, the Eastern
Nation formingthe other two-thirds, and that the amount of
land owned by the Western Nation, which was appropriated
by the United States and granted to the Eastern Nation of
Cherokees under the provisions of the treaty of 1835, was the
same part of the whole body of land as was the Eastern Nation
of the whole body of the Cherokee people, anq that, therefore, the United States took from the Western Cherokees and
deprived them of the sole use, right, title and interest in and
to two-thirds of 13,610,795.34 acres, amounting to the sum of
9,073,863.56 acres, and converted the same to the public use
and benefit, the land being worth at the time it was so taken
and converted the sum of $5,671,164.79J.
Petitioners further alleged that after the Eastern Cherokees
had been forcibly removed into the country of the Western
Cherokees through the wrongful acts of the United States, and
because of its failure to protect the Western Cherokees accord]ng to treaty stipulations, property of great value was lost to
them, to wit, of the value of $30,000, and- further, that the
only payments made to the Western Cherokees since the appropriation of their lands and the destruction of their property
were the sum of $53_,896.90, appropriated by act of Congress
of September 30, 1850, 9 Stat. 556, c. 91, a one-third interest in
the sum of $500,000 given by the United States to the whole
Cherokee people in common, by the. treaty of 1835, and a
one-third interest in 800,000 acres of land sold in common to
the Cherokee people by the United States in the treaty of
1835, which was-nade, exclusively with the Eastern Cherokee
'Nation for the sun of $500,000, at which valuation the Western Cherokees have been and still are held charged by the
government for their one-third share.
It. was further alleged that, under the provisions of the
treaty of 1846, the sum of $5,600,000, which had been provided by the treaty of 1835, and a supplementary treat3,
thereto of 1836, was adopted and taken by the United StVa!s

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

as a basis of settlement of the claims of the Western Cherokees against the United States, from which amount certain sums
were to be first deducted and of the residuum thus obtained
the Western Cherokees were to be paid one-third according
to their numerical proportion to the whole people, and that
the charges to be made against the said "treaty fund" were
to be limited to "proper" and legitimate charges, "excluding
all extravagant and improper expenditures", that the only
legitimate charges against the treaty fund are among tnose
enumerated in the 15th article of tbe treaty of 1835, as provided in the treaty of 1846, which proper.charges were as
follows, to wit the amount invested as a general national
fund, $500,000, the amount expended for 800,000 acres of
land, $500,000, the amount expended for improvements,
$1,540,572.27, the amount expended for ferries, $159,572.12,
the amount expended for spoliations, $264,894.09, and that
the $600,000 forming a part of the treaty fund was provided
by article three of the supplemental treaty of 1836, for, among
other things, the removal of the Eastern Cherokees, that
out of this fund there were removed in number 2495, that
of this number, 295 were chattels, to wit, slaves, that for the
removal of personal property there was no provision made by
the treaty; and that, therefore, the only proper expenditure for
removal was for 2200 Eastern Cherokees at $20 each, according to the terms of article four of the treaty of 1846, amounting to $14,000.
It was also charged that by the fourth article of the treaty
of May 6, 1828, 7 Stat. 311, there were 3343.41 acres reserved
by the United States, which the latter agreed to dispose of
and to apply the proceed thereof to the sole interest and benefit of the Western Cherokees, together with the value of certain agency improvements on the lands, and that the United
States have failed and neglected to do so, and are, therefore,
liable for the full value of the lands and agency improvements,
in all, the sum of $9179.16j.
It was further averred that, according to the foregoing itemized statement under article four of the treaty of 1846, their
account with the United 'States should be stated as follows

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.
Di.
CR.
"By ' treaty fund, under 4th article, treaty 1846 .........
5,600,000 00
To improvements ........................... $1,540,572 27
" ferries ................ .................
159,572 12
spoliations ....................k.........
264,894 09
" additional lands ........................
500,000- 00
" invested funds .......................
500,000 00
" removal 2200 Indians ..................
44,000 00
83,W9,038 48 $5,600,000 00
,3,009,038 48
"Balance of ' treaty fund, after proper reductions ......... .2,590,961 52
By * of the above balance, under terms of said 4th article I
of treaty of 1846 ... .............................
863,653 84
To appropriation, act September 30, 1850 .................
532,896 90
"Principal sum due under 4th article of treaty of 1846

$330,756 94"

Petitioners further alleged that under the provisions of the
eleventh article of the tkeaty of 1846, and aresolution of the
Senate of the United States of September 5, 1850, in pursuance thereof, they are entitled to interest at the rate of five
per cent per annum upon whatever principal sum might be
found due them from the 12th of June, 1838, until paid,
wherefore it was prayed
"First. That they be not held to be bound by the terms of
the contract made and entered into by and between them and
the defendants on the 6th day of August, 1846, and known
as the treaty of 1846, as fully set forth above, and that they
may be relieved of the onerous, unjust and inequitable provisions thereof, and that the defendants to this suit be decreed
and adjudged to pay unto them the value of the lands belonging to them under the treaties of 1828 and 1833, as aforesaid,
the sole right and title in and to, and use and benefit of which
were taken from them by the said treaty of 1885 with the
Eastern Cherokees, at the valuation of similar lands by the
said treaty, to wit, the sum of 162J- cents per acre, m all, the
sum of $5,671,164.72gt, together with the additional sums of
$30,000 and $9179.161, as set forth in paragraphs 8 and 11 of
this petition, less one-third of the amounts paid for additional
lands and the permanent investment fund, and the payment,
$532,896.90, as set forth in the 9th paragraph of this petition,
VOL. cxLvIII-28

-.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

amounting in all to $866,230.23*, showing a balance as
follows:
DR.

C.

"By value of lands ........... ........................ $5,671,164 721
" property destroyed, etc ... ........................
30,000 00
" value of lands and improvements in Arkansas ........
9,179 161
To price additional lands ................. $166,666 661
" permanent investment fund ........ 166,666 661
payment, act of September 30, 1850 ..
532,896 90
$866,230 23%$5,710,343 88J
866,230 23J

"Balaqce ............. .

....... ................ $4,844,113 65

"For this amount, together with interest, at the rate of 5,
per centum per annum, from June 12, 1838, until paid, your
petitioners ask for a decree.
"Second. That if this honorable court should hold that
they are not entitled -to the relief above prayed for-, that the
defendants be adjudged and decreed to pay unto your
petitioners the sums of $330,756.91, under-the provisions o[
the 4th article of the treaty of 1846, and $9179.161, under the
provisions of the treaty of 1828, and the further sum of $30,000
for property destroyed, etc., in all t~e sum of $369,936.10-,
with interest at the rate of five per centumi per annum, from
June 12, 1838, until paid.
"Third. That this honorable court will examine this case,
with 'unrestricted latitude,
so that the rights, legal
and equitable, both of the United States and your petitioners,
may be fully considered and determined,' and enter such a
decree as equity and good conscience may dictate in the
premises."
Upon the hearing the facts disclosed by the evidence, chiefly
documentary, and set fort in substance in the findings and
opinion of the Court of -Claims, (27 Ct. Cl. 1,) may be
sufficiently stated as follows
The Cherokee. Indians held, under the treaty of November
28, 1785, 7 Stat. 18, a considerable body of lands situated
in the States of North Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia and
Alabama.

UNITED STATES v. OLD "SETTflERS.
Statement of the Case.

On the 27th of December, 1817, a treaty' between the
United States and "the chiefs, headmen and warriors of
the Cherokee Nation east of the Mississippi River .and the
chiefs, headmen and warriors of the Cherokees on the Arkansas River, and their deputies,"was proclaimed, in the preamble
to which it is recited that in 1808, there being dissatisfaction
on the part of a portion of the nation who wished to continue
the hunter life and to remove across the Mississippi River on
vacant lands of the United States, .a representation to that
effect was made to the authorities at Washington, to which
the President replied, January 9, 1809, that "those who wish
to remove are permitted to send an exploring party to, reconnoitre the country on the waters of the Arkansas and White
Rivers, and the higher up the- better, as they will be the
longer unapproached by our settlements, which will begin at
the mouths of those rivers," and that "when this party shall
have found a tract of country suiting the emigrants, and not
claimed by other.Indians, we will arrange with them and you
the exchange of that for a just portion of the country they
leave, and to a part of which, proportioned to their numbers,
they have a right."
It was further recited that the, Cherokees had explored the
country on the west side of the .IMississippi and had settled
down upon United States lands on the Arkansas.and the White
Rivers, and that these emigrants and those about to- remove
were ready to relinquish their proportionate rights in the lands
East which they had left and were about to leave. Thereupon
the cession of certain lands was made., a census 'of those
Indians remaining East, and of those on the Arkansas, and
removing there, or declaring their~mtention of doing so, was
provided for, the annuity for 1818 was agreed-,to be divided
in proportion to the numbers of the two parts of the nation,
and the United States bound themselves to give as muc "hud
on the Arkansas and White Rivers as they had or might
receive of the lands East,-as the just proportion of that part
of the nation on the Arkansas--agreeably to their numbers,
also, to give to all the poor warriors: w-h.o mi-ght remove, one.
rifle and ammunition, one blanket, and one. brass kettle or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

beaver trap, to furnish fiat-bottomed boats and provisions to
aid m removal, bnd to pay for improvements adding to the
real value of the lands ceded. Treaty of July 8, 1817, 7
Stat. 156,'
About one-third-of the whole nation emigrated, and by the
treaty of March 10, 1819, provision was made for the payment of 9 ne-third of the annuity to the Cherokees West and
two-thir,s to those East. 7 Stat. 195. The Indians who thus
emigrated, with accessions down to 1835, were known as the
"Old Settlers" or "Western Cherokees."
On May 28, 1828, a treaty was made with the "Chiefs and
Headmen of the Cherokee Nation of Indians west of the
Mississippi," by which it was agreed that the lands in Arkansas should be relinquished to the United States, and a new
grant was made of seven million acres, with an outlet west,
the whole amounting to 13,610,795.34 acres. The preamble
recites "Whereas, it being the anxious desire of the government of the United States to secure to the Cherokee NaLion
of Indians, as well those now living within the limits of the
Territory of Arkansas, as those of their friends and brothers
who reside in States east of the Mississippi, and who may wish
to join their brothers of the 'est, a pernanent home, and
which shall, under the most solemn guarantee of the United
States, be, and remain theirs forever-a home that shall
never, in all future tine, be embarrassed by having extended
around it the lines, or placed over it the jurisdiction of a
Territory or State, nor be pressed upon by the extension, in
any way, of any of the limits of any existing Territory or
State."
By Article 2, the United States agreed to possess the Cherokees with the land described west of the Arkansas, and by
Article .3, the expenses of removal are provided for.
By the 4th article, the property and improvements counected
with the Indian agency were to be sold under the direcion of
the agent, and the uroceeds of the same to be applied in the
erection, in the country to which the Cherokees were going,
of a, grist and saw mill'for their use.
Article 8 stated that "The Cherokee Nation west of the

UNITED STATES v. OLD' SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case,

Iississippi, having, by this agreement, freed 'themselves: from
the harassing and ruinous effects consequent upon a location
amidst a white popul;tion, and secured to themselves and
their posterity, under the solemn sanction of the guarantee
of the United States, as contained in this agreement, a large
extent of unembarrassed country, and that their brothers yet
remaining in the States may be induced to join them and enjoy
the repose and blessings of such a state in the future, it is
further agreed, on the part of the United States, that to each
head of a Cherokee family now residing within the chartered
limits of Georgia, or of either of the States, east of the Mississippi, who may desire to remove West, shall be, given, on
enrolling himself for emigration, a good rifle, a blanket, and
kettle and five pounds of tobacco, (and to each member of
his family one blanket;) also, a just compensation for the
property he may abandon, to be assessed by persons to be
appointed by the President of the United States. The cost
of the emigration of all such shall also be borne by the United
States, and good and suitable ways opened, and provisions
procured for their comfort, accommodation and support by
the way, and provisions for twelve months after their arrival
at the agency," etc. 7 Stat. 311, 313.
A supplemental treaty with the Western Cherokees was
proclaimed February 13, 1833, the purpose of which was to
more clearly define the boundaries of the cession of 1828. By
the 4th article, certain corn mills were to be erected m lieu
of the requisition of article 4th of the prior treaty 7 Stat.
465.
Efforts followed the treaty of 1828 to induce the Eastern
Cherokees to, remove West, but the consent of all could not
be obtained. The Eastern Cherokees became divided into
two parties, the Ridge, or treaty party, and the Ross party, of
whic1 th latter was largely in the majority December 29,
1835' htreaty was made with "the chiefs, headmen and people of the Cherokee tribe of Indians," at New Echota, and
proclaimed May 23, 1836, which referred in its second article
to the treatieg with the Western Cherokees of 1828 and 1833,
as securing the conveyance of the seven million acres and'the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

outlet to the" Cherokee Nation of Indians," and recited that
"Whereas it is'apprehended by the Cherokees that in the
above cession there is not, contained a sufficient quantity of
land for the accommodation of the whole nation on their
removal west of the Mississippi, the United States, in consideration of the sum of five hundred thousand dollars therefor,"
thereby covenanted and agreed to convey eight hundred thousand acres more.
Articles 1, 8, 10 and 15 are as follows
" ATICLE 1. The Cherokee Nation hereby cede, relinquish

and convey to.the United States all the lands owned, claimed
or possessed by them east of the Mississippi River, and hereby
release all their claims upon the United States for spoliations
of every kind, for and in consideration of the sum of five
millions of dollars, to be expended, paid and invested in the
manner stipulated and agreed upon in the following articles.
But as a question has arisen between the commissioners and
the Cherokees, whether the Senate in their resolution, by
which they advised ' that a sum not exceeding five millions of
dollars be paid to the Cherokee Indianis for all their lands and
possessions east of the Mississippi River,' have included and
made any allowance or consideration for claims for spoliations, it is therefore agreed on the part of the United States
that this question shall be again submitted to the Senate for
their consideration and decision, and if no allowance was
made for spoliations, that then an additional sum of three
hundred thousand dollars be allowed for the same."
"ARTICLE 8. The United States also agree and stipulate to
remove the Cherokees to their new homes; and to subsist them
one year after their arrival there, and that a'sufficient number
of steamboats and baggage-wagons shall be furnished to
remove them comfortably, and so as not to endanger their
health, and that a physician, well supplied with medicines,
shall accompany each detachment of emigrants removed by
the government. Such persons and families as in the opinion
of the emigrating agent are capable of subsisting and removing themselves shall be permitted to do so, and they shall be
allowed in full for. all claims for the same twenty dollars for

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTtLERS.
Statement, of the Case.

each member of their family, and in lieu of their one year's
rations, they shall be paid the sum of thirty-three .dollars and
thirty-three cents if they prefer it.
"Such Cherokees also as reside at present out ofi the nation,
and shall remove with them in two years west of the, Mississippi, shall be entitled to allowance for removal and subsistence as above provided."
"1ARTIcLE 10. The President of the United States shall invest
in some safe and most productive public stocks of the country
for the benefit of the whole Cherokee Nation who have
removed or shall remove to. the lands assigned by this treaty
to the Cherokee Nation west of the .Missssippi, the following
sums as a permanent fund for the purposes hereinafter
specified, and pay over the net income of the same annually
to such person or persons as shall be authorized or appointed
by the Cherokee Nation to receive the same, and their receipt
shall be a full discharge for the amount paid to them, viz., the
sum of two hundred thousand dollars, in addition to the
present annuities of the nation, to constitute a general. fund,
the interest of which shall be applied annually by the -council
of the nation to such purposes as they may deem best for the
general interest of their people. The sum of fifty thousand
dollars to constitute an orphans' fund, the annual income of
which shall be expended towards the support and education
of such orphan children as are destitute of the means of subsistence. The sum of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars,
in addition to the present school fund of the nation, shall constitute a permanent school fund, the interest of which shall be
applied annually by the council of the nation for the support
of common schools and such a literary institution of a higher
order as may be established in the Indian country
The United States also agree and stipulate to pay the just
debts and claims against the Cherokee Nation held by the
citizens of the same, and also the just claims of citizens of the
United States for services rendered to the nation, and the sum
of sixty thousand dollars is appropriated for this purpose, but
no claims against individual persons of the nation shall be
allowed and paid by the nation. The sum of three hundred

OCTOBER TERM. 1892.
Statement of the Case.

thousand dollars is hereby set apart to pay and liquidate the
just claims of-the Cherokees upon the United States for
spoliations of every kind, that have not been already satisfied
under former treaties."
"AnTICLE, 15. It is expressly understood and agreed between
the parties to this treaty that after deducting the amount
which shall be actually expended for the payment for inprovements, ferries, claims for spoliations, removal, subsistence,
and debts, and claims upon the Cherokee Nation, and for the
additional quantity of lands and goods for the poorer class of
Cherokees and the several sums to be invested for the general
national funds, provided for in the several articles of this
treaty, the balance, whatever the same may be, shall be equally
divided between all the people belonging to the Cherokee
Nation East according to the censgs just completed, and such
Cherokees as have removed West since June; 1883, who are
entitled by the terms of their enrolment and removal to all
the benefits resulting from the final treaty between the United
States and the Cherokees East, they shall also be paid for
their improvements according to their approved value before
their removal, where fraud has not already been shown in their
valuation."

Article 11 provided for a commutation of the permanent
annuity of ten thousand dollars for the sum of $214,000.
By Article 12, a committee was designated, "fully empowered and authorized to pansact all business on the part
of.the Indians which may arise in carrying into effect the
provisions of this treaty and settling the same with the United
States," and it was provided "that the sum of one hundred
thousand dollars shall be expended by the- commissioners in
such manner as the committee deem best for the benefit of the
poorer class of Cherokees as shall remove West, or have removed West, and are entitled to the benefits of this treaty"
By Article 16, it was stipulated that the Cherokees should
"remove to their new homes within two years from the ratification of this treaty," and by Article 17, that "all the claims
arising under or provided for in the several articles of this
treaty shall be examined and adjudicated by
such

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the-Case.

commissioners as shall be appointed by the President of- the
United States for that purpose, and their decision shall be
final, and on their certificate of the amount due the several
claimants they shall be paid by the. United States." 7 Stat.
4'78-486.
A controversy arising as to the deduction of the cost of removal from the five million dollars purchai6 money, a supplemental treaty was .concluded and proclaimed with the other
treaty, on the same day, namely, :May 23, 1836, of which
Articles 2 and 3 are as follows
" ARTICLE 2. Whereas the7 Cherokee people have supposed
that the sum of five millions of dollars fixed by the Senate in
their resolution of-day of March, 1835, as the value of the
Cherokee lands and possessions east of the Mississippi River
was not intended to include the amount which may be required
to remove them, nor the value of certain claims which many
of their people had against citizens of the United States, which
suggestion has been confirmed by the opinion expressed to the
War Department by some of the Senators who voted upon the
question, and whereas the President is willing that this sub3ect should be referred to the Senate for their consideration,
and if it was not intended by the Senate that the above-mentioned sum of five millions of dollars should include the objects
herein specified, that in that case such further provision should
be made therefor as might appear to the Senate to be just.
"ARTICLE 3. It is therefore agreed. that the sum of six ijundred thousand dollars shall be, and the same is hereby, allowed
to the Cherokee people, to include the expense of their removal,
and all claims of every nature and description against the government of the United States not herein otherwise expressly
provided fdr, and to be in lieu of the said reservations and
predmptions, and of the sum of three hundred thousand dollars for spoliations described in the first article of the abovementioned treaty This sum of six hundred thousand dollars
shall be applied and distributed agreeably to the provisions of
the said treaty, and any surplus which may remain after xemoval and payment of the claims so ascertained shall be
turned over and belong to the education fund. But it is ex-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

pressly understood that the subject of this article is merely
referred hereby to the consideration of the Senate, and if they
shall approve the same, then this supplement shall remain part
of the treaty"
Article 4 provided "It is also understood and agreed
that the one hundred thousand dollars appropriated in Article
12 for the poorer class of Cherokees, and intended as a set-off
to the preemption rights, shall now be transferred from the
funds of the nation and added to the general national fund of
four hundred thousand dollars, so as to make said fund equal
to five hundred thousand dollars." 'I Stat. 488.
There was accordingly invested $714,000, $500,000 national
fund, covering the various items before mentioned, and $214,000
commutation.
The five million six hundred thousand dollars was thenceforth commonly styled the treaty fund, though the six hundred thousand dollars was allowed with particular reference to
the expense of removal.
The court having ruled the Secretary of the Interior to furnish from the official records of his department information,
first, as to the number of acres of land ceded to the Cherokee
Indians under the treaty of December 29, 1835, exclusive of
the eight hundred thousand acres, and, second, the number of
acres of land ceded and relinquished by the Cherokee Indians
to the United States east of the Mississippi River under said
treaty, the Secretary furnished a letter from the acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs to him, from which it appeared
that the land by actual survey (except the Cherokee reservation, which was estimated) amounted to 13,610,795.34 acres,
and that the number of acres stated in the patent issued December 31, 1838, to the Cherokee INation for said land, the outlying boundaries of which had been surveyed, was 13,574,135.14,
which included the seven million acres and the outlet as such,
and, further, that there were no data in the office of Indian
Affairs from which an approximate estimate could be made
of the number of acres of land ceded to the United States
east of. the Mississippi, but that a letter to the Secretary of
War, daV&'February 27, 1833, gave an estimate of 6,730.000

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.

acres, which was believed too large by nearly a million of
acres.
The record contains a communication from commissioners
appointed to settle claims under the treaty of 1835, addressed
to the Secretary of War, under date of February 21, 1837,
asking his opinion "of the true and fair construction of those
provisions of the treaty which provide for claims of citizens of
the United States for services rendered the Cherokee-Nation,"
and saying, "1we are not able to perceive any provision whatever for the payment of claims of the above description, except
what is contained in the 10th article of the treaty, and which
limits the amount which may be thus allowed to the sum -of
sixty thousand dollars.'
The treaty of New Echota was signed by persons purporting
to represent the Eastern Cherokees, and assent to its provisions
was given by two delegates from the Western Cherokees. John
IRoss and his followers were absent from the council that
adopted the treaty, and disputed its validity The authority
of the Western delegates was also denied. The Tidge or
treaty party numbered some 2200, aud they emigrated to the
West, carrying with them 295 slaves, the cost of removal
falling on the United States. The Eastern Cherokees, numbering 14,757, disavowed the treaty, and memorialized the
President .and Congress. The United States authorities then
in effect offered that if they would remove to the Indian Ter.
ritory the expense of their subsistence should not be charged
against the $5,600,000. Early. in 1838, the removal of these
Indians by military force Qomnhced, and by act of Congress
of June 12, 1838, 5 Stat. 2-1, c. 97, $1,017,067 was appropriated to defray the expenses of their removal and subsistence. The whole of..:this appropriation was expended, and in
additron the sum of $189,422.76. In August, 1838, 6n their
way to the Indian Territory, the Eastern Cherokees last mentioned resolved in council "that the inherent sovereignty of
the Cherokee Nation, together with the constitution, laws and
usages of the same, are, and by the authority aforesaid, are
hereby declared to be in full force and virtue, and shall continue-so to be in perpetuity subject to such modifications as

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

the general welfare may render expedient."
Upon their
arrival they refused to submit to the government of the
Western Cherokees, but offered to unite in a general council
which should frame a constitution and establish a government
for all. The Western Cherokees declined to make this arrangement, and insisted that the Eastern Cherokees had entered deir
territory without their permission, and that their character was
that of aliens or immigrants, subject to the constitution and
laws theretofore existing in the Territory
A number of
efforts followed to form a union, and at a popular convention
in January, 1840, an act of union was ratified, which had been
adopted in July, 1839. The validity of this act of union and
of the ratification was denied, but the Cherokee Nation thereby
created seems to have been recognized as lawful by the United
States. However, between the years 1838 and 1846, the Cherokee country was the scene of intestinal disorders of the gravest
character, destroying the rights and liberties of certain. of the
Cherokees and endangering the peace of the frontier.
June 18, 1846, the Western Cherokees agreed to submit
their claims to a board of commissioners to be appointed by
the President and Senate of the United States. The board
was appointed, and arrived at and announced its conclusions
after an elaborate presentation of the claims of the Western
Cherokees.
On August 3, 1846, the delegates of the Western Cherokees
informed the commissioners that they were willing to agree to
the suggested basis of settlement, which they state as they
understand it, and closed their letter by saying, "that they
will always consider whatever money may be paid their
people, under the provisions of the present treaty, will be
received as a payment for their country west of the Mississippi,
which they now relinquish to the whole nation. They do not
acquiesce in the decision of the commissioners. that their country became the property of the whole Cherokee people by virtue of the treaty of 1828, or any subsequent treaty, and, should
the treaty now proposed fail, from any cause, it is their fixed
determination to reassert their rights to the country secured
to them by the treaty of 1833, and to prosecute their claim to

UNTITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.

the same by all proper and lawful means in the power of a
feeble and oppressed people", and they ask that the letter be
communicated to the President and Senate of the United
States, with the other proceedings.
August 6, 1846, a treaty was concluded between the United
States, by Edmund Burke, William Armstrong and Albion K.
Parris, commissioners; the principal chief and delegates duly
appointed by the Eastern Cherokees, the representatives of
the treaty party; and the representatives of the Western
Cherokees. 9 Stat. 871.
The preamble stated the reasons for the treaty as follows
"Whereas serious difficulties have, for a considerable time
past, existed between the different portions of the people constituting and recognized as the Cherokee Nation of Indians,
which it is desirable should be speedily settled, so that peace
and harmony may be restored among them, and whereas
certain claims exist on the part of the Cherokee Nation, and
portions of the Cherokee people, against the United States;
therefore, with-a view to the final and amicable settlement of
the difficulties and claims before mentioned, it is mutually
agreed by the several parties to this convention as follows,
VIZ. )
By Article 1, lands now occupied by the Cherokee Nation
were secured to the whole Cherokee people, by Article 2, it
was provided that all differences theretofore existing between
the several parties of the Cherokee Nation should be settled
and adjusted, that all party distinctions should cease except
so far as they should be necessary to carry out the treaty, and
a general amnesty was thereby declared, Article 3 related to
certain reimbursements to be made by the United States to
the five-million-dollar fund, with which it was not properly
chargeable.
Articles 4 and 5 read as follows
"AnTicLE 4. And whereas it has been decided by the board
of commissioners re~ently appointed by the President of the
United States to examine and adjust the claims and difficulties
existing against and between the Cherokee people and the
United States, as well as between the- Cherokees themselves,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

that under the provisions of the treaty of 1828, as well as
in conformity with the general policy of the United States in
relation to the Indian tribes, and the Cherokee N~ation in
particular, that that portion of the Cherokee people known as
the ' Old Settlers,' or 'Western Cherokees,' had no exclusive
title to the territory ceded in that treaty, but that the same
was intended for the use of, and to be the home for, the whole
nation, including as well that portion then east as that portion
then west of the Mississippi, and whereas the said board of
commissioners further decided that, inasmuch as the territory
before mentioned became the common property of the whole
Cherokee Nation by the operation. of the treaty of 1828, the
Cherokees then west of the Mississippi, by the equitable operation of the same treaty, acquired a common interest in the
lands occupied by the Cherokees east of the IMississippi River,
as well as in those occupied by themselves west of that river,
which interest should have been provided for in the treaty of
1835, but which was not, except, in so far as they, as a constituent portion of the nation, retained, in proportion to their
numbers, a common interest in the country west of the- Mississippi, and in the general funds of the nation, and, therefore,
they have an equitable claim upon the United States for the
value of that interest, whatever it may be. Now, in order to
ascertain the value of that interest, it is agreed that the
following principles shall be adopted, viz. All the investments
and expenditures which are properly chargeable upon the
sums granted in the treaty of 1835, amounting in the whole
to five million six hundred thousand dollars, (which investments and expenditures are particularly enumerated in the
15th article of the treaty of 1835,) to be first deducted from
said aggregate sum, thus ascertaining the residuum or amount
which would, under such marshalling of accounts, be left for
per capita distribution among the Cherokees, emigrating under
the treaty of 1835, excluding all extravagant and imxproper
expenditures, and then allow to the Old Settlers (or Western,
Cherokees) a sum equal to one-third part of said residuum, to
be distributed _per capzta to each individual of said party of
'Old Settlers,' or 'Western Cherokees.' It is further agreed

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.

that, sp far as the Western Cherokees are concerned, in estimating the expense-of removal and subsistence of an Eastern
Cherokee, to be charged to the aggregate fund of- five million
.six hundred thousand dollars above mentioned, the sums for
removal and subsistence stipulated in the 8th article of the
treaty of 1835, as commutation money in those cases in which
the parties entitled to it removed themselves, shall be adopted.
And as it affects the settlement with the Western Cherokees,
there shall be no deduction from the fund before mentioned
in consideration of any payments which may hereafter be
made out of said fund, and, it is hereby further understood
and agreed that the principle above defined shall embrace-all
those Cherokees west of the Mississippt who emigrated prior
to the treaty of -1835.
"In the consideration of the foregoing stipulation on the
part of the United States, the 'Western Cherokees,' or 'Old
Settlers,' hereby release and quit-claim to the United States all
right, title, interest or claim they may -have to a common
property in the Cherokee lands east of the IMississippi River,
and to exclusive ownership to the lands ceded to them by the
treaty of 1833 west of the Mississippi, including the outlet
west, consenting and agreeing that the said lands, together
with the eigt~t hundred thousand acres ceded to the Cherokees
by the treaty of 1835, shall be and remain the common property
of the whole Cherokee people, themselves included.
"AiTmLE 5. It is mutually agreed that the per capita
allowance to be given to the 'Western Cherokees,' or 'Old
Settlers,' upon the principle above stated, shall be held in trust
by-the government o the United States, and paid out to-each
individual belonging to that party or head of family, or his
legal representatives. And it is further agreed that the per
capita allowance to be paid as aforesaid shall not be assignable,
but shall be paid directly to the persons entitled to it, or to'his
heirs or legal representatives, by the agent of the United States
authorized to make such payments.
"And it is further agreed that a committee of five persons
shall be appointed by the President of the United States from
the party of ' Old Settlers,' whose duty it shall be, in conjunc-

448

OCTOBER TERMr, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

tion with an agent of the United States, to ascertain what persons are entitled to the per cayuta allowance provided for in
this and the preceding article."
Article 6 appropriated one hundred and fifteen thousand
dollars for the indemnification of the treaty party, Article 'I
related to the value of salines, which were the private property
of individual Western Cherokees, and of which they were dispossessed, Article 8 provided for the payment to the Cherokee
Nation of two thousand dollars for a printing press, etc.,
destroyed, five thousand dollars to be equally divided "among
all those whose arms were taken from them previous to their
removal West by order of an officer of the United States; and
the further sum of twenty thousand dollars in lieu of all
claims of the Cherokee Nation as a nation, prior to the treaty
of 1835, except all lands reserved by treaties heretofore made
for school funds."
Article 9 read thus:
"AwRTieE 9. The United States agree to make a fair and
just settlement of all moneys due to the Cherokees, and subject
to the per capita division under the treaty of 29th December,
1835, which said settlement shall exhibit all money properly
expended under said treaty, and shall embrace all sums paid
for improvetnents, ferries, spoliations, removal, and subsistence,
and commutation therefor, debts and claims upon the Cherokee
Nation of Indians, for the additional quantity of land ceded to
said nation, and the several sums provided [forj in the several
articles of the treaty, to be invested as the general funds of the
nation, and also all sums which may be hereafter properly
allowed and paid under the provisions of the treaty of 1835.
The aggregate of which said several sums shall be deducted
from the sum of six millions six hundred and forty-seven thousand and sixty-seven dollars, and the balance thus found to
be due shall be paid over, per ,capita, in equal amounts, to
all those individuals, heads of families, or their legal representatives, entitled to receive the same under the treaty of
1835, and the supplement of 1836, being all those Cherokees
residing East at the-date of said treaty and the supplement
thereto."

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.

Article 10 related to Cherokees still residing east of the Mssissippi River. Articles 11 and 12 were as follows
"AnTicLE 11. Whereas the Cherokee delegations contend
that the amount expended for the one year's subsistence, after
their arrival in the West, of the Eastern Cherokees, is not
properly chargeable to the treaty fund, it is hereby agreed
that -that question shall be submitted to the Senate of the
United States for its decision, which shall decide whether the
subsistence shall be borne by the United States or the Cherokee
funds, and if by the Cherokees, then to say whether the subsistence shall be charged at a greater rate than thirty-three %
dollars per head, and also the question whether the Cherokee
Nation shall be allowed interest on whatever sum may be
found to be due the nation, and from what date and at what
rate per annum.
"ARTIcLE 12. The Western Cherokees, called 'Old Settlers,'
in assenting to the general provisions of this treaty in behalf
of their people have expressed their fixed opinion that, in
making a settlement with them upon the basis herein established, the expenses incurred for the removal and subsistence.
of Cherokees, after the twenty-third day of May, 1838, should
not be charged upon the five millions of dollars allowed to the
Cherokees for their lands under the treaty of 1835, or on the
fund provided by the third article of the supplement thereto,
and that no part of the spoliations, subsistence or removal
provided for by the. several articles of said treaty and the supplement, thereto, should be charged against them in their
settlement for their interest in the Cherokee country east and
west of the Mississippi River. And the delegation of ' Old Settlers,' or 'Western Cherokees,' propose that the question shall
be submitted with this treaty to the decision of the Senate of
the United States, of what portion, if any, of the expenditures
made for removal,.subsistence and spoliations under the treaty
of 1835 is properly and legally chargeable to the five-million
fund. And they will abide by the decision of the Senate."
The treaty was ratified by the Senate, August 8, 1846, after
amendments to the fifth artie, (which is given above as
amended,) and striking out the' twelfth article. The amendVOL. cxLvin-29

OCTOBER TERM , 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ments to the treaty by the Senate were agreed to by the
representatives of the several parties of Indians, August 13,
1846.
A joint resolution of Congress was approved August 7,
1848, 9 Stat. 339, as follows
"That the proper accounting officers of the Treasury be,
and they are hereby, authorized and required to make a just
and fair statement of the claims of the Cherokee Nation of
Indians, according to the principles established by the.treaty
of August, eighteen hundred and forty-six, between the United
States and said Indians, and that they report the same to the
next session of Congress."
On the 8th of August, 1850, the Senate Committee on
Indian Affairs made P report, (Sen. Rep. .1st Sess. 31st Cong.
No. 176,) setting forth, among other things, that "the statement of accounts according to the principles of the treaty of
1846 between the United States and the Western'and Eastern
Cherokees, respectively, was a labor of time and research,
involving an examination of every item of expenditure under
the treaty of 1835, through a period extending from the year
1835 to 1846. This duty was, therefore, committed by joint
resolution of Congress of the 7th of August, 1848, to the
Second Auditor and Second Comptroller of the Treasury,
not only because they were 'the proper accounting officers,'
but because one of those officers had acted as one of the
commissioners of the United States in making the treaty of
1846, and was justly supposed to be well informed as to its
true object and intent."
The officer thus referred to was Judge Parris, of Maine, and
the record contains the report of the Second Comptroller and
Second Auditor of the Treasury, giving a statement of the
account.of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, according to the
principles established by the treaty The items of charges
against the Cherokee Nation are given in detail and deducted
from $6,647,067, the amount specified in Article 9 of the
treaty, being made up of the $5,000,000, the $600,000, and
the $1,047,067.
The account as stated in the Senate report was as follows

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS:
Statement of the Case.
"This fund, provided by the treaty of 1835, consisted of ....
$5,600,000 00
From which are to be deducted, under the treaty of 1846,
(4th article,) the sums chargeable under the 15th article of the treaty of 1835, which, according-to the report
of the accounting officers, will stand thus.
For improvements .......................
1,540,572 27
For ferries ..............................
159,572 12
For spoliations ..........................
264,894 09
For removal and subsistence of, 18,026 In-,
dians, at $53.331 per head ..............
961,386 66
Debts and claims upon the Cherokee Nation,
VIZ.
National debts (10th article)... $18,062 06
Claims of United States citizens
(10th article) ..............
61,073 49
Cherokee committee (12th article) ......................
22,212 76
Amount allowed United States for additional quantity of land ceded ...........
Amount invested as a general fund of the

nation .........................

....

101,348 31
500,000 00

500,880 00

Making in the aggregate the sum of ..............

4,028,653 45-

Which, being deducted from the treaty fund of $5,600,000,
leaves the residuum, contemplated by the 4th article
of the treaty of 1846, of ......................
$1,571,340 55"

of wnch amount one-third was to be allowed to the Western
Cherokees for their interest am the, Cherokee country east,
being the sum of $523,782.18,-and an appropriation of. that
amount was recommended. The committee also considered
the two questions referred to the Senate in respect of whether
the amount expended for subsistence should be borne by the
United States or by the Cherokee funds, and whether the
Cherokees should receive interest on-the sums found due them
from a misapplication of their funds, and- recommended Vhe
adoption of-the following resolutions, which were accordingly
adopted, September 5,1850, by the Senate as umpire under
Article 11 of the treaty of 1846, (Sen. Journ. lst Sess. 31st
Cong. 601)
"1esoved bj the Senate of the Uhnited States, That the Cherokee Nation of Indians are entitled to the sum of $189,422.76
for subsistence being the. difference between the amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

allowed by the act of June 12, 1S38, and the amount actually
paid and expended by the United States, and which excess
was improperly charged to the ' treaty fund' in the report of
the accounting officer of the Treasury
"Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that interest
at the rate of five per cent per annum should be allowed
upon the sums found due the ' Eastern' and ' Western' Cherokees, respectively, from the 12th day of June, 1838, until
paid."
The committee gave their reasons for the first resolution at
length. They stated that they entertained no doubt but that
by a strict construction of the treaty of 1835 the expense of a
year's subsistence of the Indians after their removal west was
a proper charge upon the treaty fund, but they set forth a
variety of considerations which justified the conclusion that
the expense for subsistence was to be borne by the United
States, including certain action by the Secretary of War m
1838, and the language of the act of June 12, 1838, making
the appropriation of $1,047,067. By the latter Congress provided that no part of the $600,000 or of the $1,047,067 should
be taken from the treaty fund. The $1,04'7,067 was, said the
committee, "made auxiliary to the $600,000 provided for in
the third supplemental article - a fund provided for removal
and other expenditures independent of the treaty, and in full
for these objects. But as respects subsstence, it was 2n azd
of the expense for that purpose, a discharge pro tanto of the
obligation of the government to subsist them, and not final
satisfaction, as in the case of removal. The fund proved
wholly inadequate for these purposes. The entire expense of
removal and subsistence amounted to $2,952,196.26, of which
the sum of $972,844.18 was expended for subsistence, and of
this last amount, $172,316,47 was furnished to the Indians
when in great destitution, upon their own urgent application,
after the expiration of, the one year, upon the understanding
that it was to be deducted from the moneys due them under
the treaty This leaves the net sum of $800,528.31 paid for
subsistence, and charged to the aggregate fund. Of this sum
the United States provided, by the act of 12th of June, 1838,

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.

for $611,105.55." This left $189,422.T6 to be made up in
order to cover the entire subsistence.
The second section of the act of June 12, 1838, read as

follows
"That the further sum of one million forty-seven thousand
and sixty-seven dollars be appropriated, out of any money m
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, m full for all objects
specified m the third article of the supplementary articles of
the treaty of eighteen hundred and thirty-five between the
United States and the Cherokee Indians, and for the further
.object of aiding in. the subsistence of said Indians for one year
after their removal west. Provzded, That no part of the said
sum of money shall be deducted from the five millions stipulated to be paid to .the said tribe of Indians by said treaty "1
And of this amount the committee found that only
$611,105.55 had been expended for the one year's subsistence.
The act of Congress of September 30, 1850, making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses of thb Indian
Department, and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various
Indian tribes for the year ending June 30, 1851, 9 Stat. 544,
556, c. 91, contained the following"For the additional amount for expenses paid for subsistence
and improperly charged to the treaty fund, according to the
award of the Senate of fifth day of September; eighteen hundred and fifty, under the provisions of the eleventh article of
the treaty of sixth day of August, eighteen hundred and fortysix, one hundred and eighty-nine thousand four hundred and
twenty-two dollars and seventy-six cents, and that interest be
paid on the same at the rate of five per -cent per annum,
according to a resolution of the Senate of fifth September,
eighteen hundred and fifty Proveded, That said money shall
be paid by the United States and received by the Indians on
condition that the same shall be in full discharge of the amount
thus improperly charged to said treaty fund P'ovsded,further, That m no case shall any money hereby appropriated be
paid to any agent of said Indians, or to any other person or
persons than the Indian or Indians to whom it is. due per
capita.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"To the ' Old Settlers,' or ' Western Cherokees,' in full of all
demands, under the provisions of the treaty of sixth August,
eighteen hundred and forty-six, according to the principles
established in the fourth article thereof, five hundred and
thirty-two thousand eight hundred and ninety-six dollars and
ninety cents, and that interest be allowed and paid upon the
,above sums due, respectively, to the Cherokees and ' Old Settlers,' in pursuance of the above-mentioned award of the
Senate, under the reference contained m the said eleventh
article of the treaty of sixth August, eighteen hundred and
forty-six Prowded, That in no case shall any money hereby
appropriated be paid to any agent of said Indians, or to any
other person or persons than the Indian or Indians to -whom
it is due Proded,alo, That the Indians who shall receive
the said money shall first, respectively, sign a receipt or release, acknowledging the same to be m full of all demands
under the fourth article of said treaty"
The Western Cherokees were accordingly paid per capdat
the amount so appropriated, principal and interest, the interest
amounting to $345,583.25. They receipted as required by the
statute, but upon the occasion of their being so paid they gave
to the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, at Fort Gibson, a protest setting forth their reasons why the payment should not
be received in full of all demands. The form of the receipt
thus executed was as follows
"We the undersigned ' Old Settlers,' or Western Cherokees, do hereby acknowledge to have received from John
Drennen, supt. of- Indian affairs, the sums opposite our names
resppctively, being in full of all demands under the provisions
of the treaty of the sixth of August, eighteen hundred and
forty-six, according to the principles established in the fourth
article thereof, as per act entitled IAn act making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses of the Indian
Department, and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes for the year ending. June 30th, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one.' Approved September
30th, 1850."
The protest, after setting forth that the condition of. the

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
-Statement of the Case.

Old. Settlers had been a deplorable one, and that they ought
not to be deprived summarily of the right to present a claim
for, a larger amount than had been awarded to them, and
referring to the report of the Senate CQmmittee on Indian
Affairs, and the appropriation of the $189,422.76, and that
the treaty fund should be relieved of the whole amount
expended on account of subsistence as an improper charge,
continued thus
," 4th. It has thus been conclusively shown that after the
statement was made, under the report of the accounting
officers of December 3d, 1849, and the ' Old Settlers' were
charged with the removal and subsistence of 18,026 Indians,
the Senate of the United States decided that the subsistence
was improperly charged, and in a subsequent appropriation
for the Eastern Cherokees, or 'emigrant party,' it has neen
refunded, and the sum of $189,422.76, which had been
charged to the treaty fund, has been declared to be an
Iimproper' charge, and payment thereof is assumed' by the
United States. The 'Old Settlers,' or Western Cherokees,
are, therefore, entitled to one-third part of the money improperly charged for the subsistence of 18,026 Indians, at
$33.331 cents per head, which has been deducted from the
amount due them m the act of appropriation made for their
benefit September 30th, 1850. There were- some slight alterations made n the statement of accounts after the report of
the committee was submitted, but they changed the amount
very little, and are not worth noting.
"5th. The amount, then, due the 'Old Settlers,' or Western Cherokees, in accordance with the decision of the Senate,.
is the one-third part of the charge made against them for
the subsistence one year after removal of 18,026 Indians,
which, at $33.33* cents per head, amounts to the sum of
$600,856.66, the one-third part of which is'-$200;285.33 (two
hundred thousand two hundred and eighty-five dollars and
thirty-three cents). This sum, with the interest from June
12, 1838, is now due to the 'Old Settlers' Cherokees, -(in
addition to the. amount appropriated by the act of September
30, 1850,)-m accordance with the-principle established- by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Senate of the United States in the resolution adopted by that
honorable 'body Here, in one item alone, the 'Old-Settler'
Cherokees are declared by an act of the United States
government to be entitled, in addition to the amount. they
are now receiving, to upwards of three hundred and thirty
thousand dollars ($8330,000). It is known to the 'Old Setters ' that many honorable members of Congress were aware
that this item could have been added to the appropriation of
September 30, 1850, and that a favorable report thereon
would have been made from the Office of Indian Affairs,
but that those who represented the ' Old Settlers,' with other
friends, deemed it advisable not to make the effort then to
being at the close
change the statement already made -it
of the session, when the least delay or interference might
have defeated the appropriation, even under the first statement."
The protest then concluded with objections to the number
of Indians for whose removal charges had been made, and
generally to the charges for improvements, ferries, depredations, and for debts and claims upon the Cherokee Nation
East and other expenditures of similar character, as improperly made.
The United .States acquired the reservation, improvements
and property in Arkansas referred to in article foi - of the
treaty of 1828, but neither the agreement therein s%. forth
on the part of the United States to account for and invest
the proceeds thereof to the use of the Western Cherokees, nor
the subsequent agreement set forth in the treaty of 1833, was
ever performed. The tract of land so ceded to the United
States contained 3343.41 acres, of the value of $4179.26.
Certain papers on file in the Interior Department were put
in evidence, purporting to be copies of the proceedings of
councils of the Western Cherokees held in the years 1875,
1876, 1877, 1879, 1880, 1881, 1882 an1 1883, at Tahlequah,
Cherokee Nation. At these councils, Bryan, Wilson and
Hendricks were appointed commissioners to prosecute the
claims of the Western Cherokees against the United States,
and Bryan was appointed treasurer of a fund of thirty-five

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Statement of the Case.

per cent of the moneys that might be recovered against the
United States, which sum was placed at the disposal of the
commissioners for the prosecution of the claim. It does not
appear that these councils were composed of persons who
were ascertained to be Western Cherokees in the manner
prescribed in the fifth article of the treaty of 1846, nor did it
appear that subsequent to the treaty the Western Cherokees
had any organization or corporate existence under the laws
of the United States or of the Cherokee Nation. The proceedings of the council held on October 25, 1883, embodied
a number of resolutions, which, in the view taken of the case,
it is unnecessary should be repeated.
The record does not show that the Western Cherokees
formally denied the validity of the treaty of 1835 until the
immigration of the Eastern Cherokees was completed, and
until after there was a disagreement as to the government
that should be adopted and control the Cherokee country
The earlier immigrants, known as the Ridge party, and the
great body of the Eastern Cherokees, known as the Ross
party, were welcome to the country as minigrants under the
existing laws. Prior to 1842 it does not appear that the
Western Cherokees notified the United States that they had
repudiated the action of Rogers and Smith, who signed the
treaty of 1835 as delegates from the Western Cherokees.
After the entry of the Eastern Cherokees, the question first
at issue between them and the Western Cherokees related to
the government of the country, until, in 1842, they addressed
a memorial to the President, setting forth their title to fourteen million acres of land and their right to the full and
exclusive enjoyment of the same, of which they alleged they
had been deprived by the intrusion of the Eastern Cherokees
under the authority of the Unied States.
No action on behalf of the Old Settlers appears to have
been taken from the filing of the protest September-22, 1851,
until the year 1875, and in the meetings of the Old Settlers,
heretofore referred to, the validity of the several treaties witn
the Cherokees was recognized.
On August 7, 1882, an act of Congress was approved, mak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ing appropriations for sundry ciiil expenses, which contained
the following clause
"The Secretary of the Interior shall investigate and report
to Congress what in his opinion would be an equitable settlement of all matters of dispute between the Eastern Band of
Cherokee Indians (including all the Cherokees residing east
of the Mississippi River) and the Cherokee tribe or nation
west, also all matters of dispute between other bands or
parts of the Cherokee Nation, also all matters between any
of said bands, or parts thereof, and the United States arising
from or growing out of treaty stipulations or the laws of
Congress relating thereto, and what sum or sums of money,
if any, should, in his opinion, be paid under such settlement."
22 Stat. c. 433, pp. 302, 328.
In pursuance of the authority thus given, an investigation
was directed and a report made by the Secretary of the
Interior, February 23, 1883, contained in Senate Documents,
Second Session, Forty-seventh Congress, Executive Document,
No. 60. This is the claim referred to in the jurisdictional act,
and shows a balance of $421,653.68, in accordance with the
following account
"Account with the whole Cherokee people.
DR

Ca.

"By amount appropriated bv act of July 2, 1836,
for lands under first article treaty of 1835 ............... $5,000,000 00
By amount appropriated under third article
600,000 00
treaty 1836, by act of July 2, 1836 ...................
By amount erroneously charged for removal of
2495 [should be 18,026] Indians, at $53.33,L
961,386 66
......... ....... ......
per head ................
To amount paid for improvements .......... $1,540,572 27
159,572 12
To amount paid for ferries ................
264,894 09
To amount paid for spoliations ...............
To removal and subsistence of 18,026 Indians
at $53.331 per head ..................... 961,386 66
101,348 31
To debts, &c ...............................
500,000 00
To additional land purchased ................
500,880 00
To amount invested as a permanent fund ......
Deduct

$4,028,653 45 $6,561,386 66
................................... 4,028,653 45

Balance due as of date June 12, 1838 ..................... $2,532,733 21

UJNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.

459

Statement of the Case.
DR.

C _.

Balance due as of date June 12, 1838 ..................
Of which amount the ' Old Settlers 'are entitled
...............................
to one-third .........

$2,532,733 21

'Old Settlers' account ..............................
To one-third of unexpended balance of $600,000
appropriated under article 3, treaty 1836, viz.,
$39,300
...... .......... .........
To one-third of the cost of removing 2495
Indians, at $53.33 per head, $133,058.35

$844,244 40

$13,100 00
44,352 78

$57,452 78 $844,244 40
...............
57,452 78

Deduct ...................

Balance due ....................................
By interest on balance ($786,791.62), at 5 per
cent, from June 12, 1838, to September 22,
1851
......................
......
To appropriation by act September 22, 1851 ....
To interest allowed under same act .......
Deduct ...........

844,244 40

.

.......

$786,791 62

$522,342 21
532,896 90
354,583 25

$887,480 15 $1,309,133 83
.................
887,480 15

Balance due ' Old Settlers' . ........................

$421,653 68'

The principal difference between this and the prior account
was in the deduction of the item of $961,386.66.
The Secretary's report was accompanied by that of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, going over the whole subject
of the claims of the Eastern and of the Western Cherokees,
with accompanying reports, and among others, two of the
Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, one made February 9,
1881, and another March 29, 1882, the latter being a repetition of the former. These reports considered the claim of
the Western Cherokees and announced the conclusion that
the receipt by those Indians, under the act of September 30,
1850, "does not preclude them from making their claim for
any other sum that may be justly due them under a fair alid
proper interpretation of the treaties with them," and that the
facts necessary to determine the justness of the claim preferred by them "consist almost, if not wholly, of public
treaties, proceedings of the Senate, acts of Congress, and the
records of the several departments of the government, all of
winch are preserved." The committee were of opinion that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

case should receive a full investigation by the courts, becausE
such an investigation involved a judicial interpretation of the
several treaties, the construction of the several acts of Congress
and the examination of the settlements made and acqounts
stated with them, under these treaties and acts of Congress.
On February 13, 1884, the case of the Old Settlers was
transmitted to the Court of Claims by the Senate Committee
on-Indian Affairs, under the provisions of the act of March 3,
186 Findings of fact were made by the court and transmitted
to Congress, February 9, 1885. These findings found the
charges against the treaty fund to be the same as fixed in the
report of August 8, 1850, and the report of 1883, except as to
the number of Eastern Cherokees whose removal was properly
chargeable to said fund, the number being fixed at 17,252
instead of 18,026. After making the deductions, except as to
removal and subsistence, the balance of the treaty fund was
found to be as according to the report of the Secretary of the
Interior, $2,532,733.21, but if it should be determined that
the cost of removing that portion of the Eastern Cherokees,
who were removed in pursuance of the appropiation of
$1,047,067, made by the act of 1838, shotild not be charged,
then this balance should be reduced only by the cost of removing 2495 Eastern Cherokees, who were removed prior to
the act, at $53.33 per capita,or $133,058.35. If, on the other
hand, it should be determined that the Western Cherokees
were properly chargeable with those removed subsequent. to,
the act of June, 1838, as well as before, namely, for 17,252'
Cherokees, then the amount of $920,049.16 should be deducted. The account would then stand
'Treaty fund ..........................................
$2,532,733 21
Deduct for removal of 2495-Rastern Cherokees removed
prior to act of June 12, 1838 ........................
133,058 35
Residuum tb be divided .............................
One-third thereof awarded to Western Cherokees .........
Less the payment of ....
.............................
Balance ....................

Or,

....

................

$2,399,674 86
$799,891 62
532,896 90
$2q6,994 72""

UNITED STATES-'-&OLD SETTLERS:
Statemezit of the Case.
I-

"Treaty fund .................................... $2,532,733 21
Deduct for removal and subsistence of 17,252 Eastern Cherokees at $53.33 per capita ...............................
920,049 16
Residuum to be divided ....................... $1,612,684 05
One-third thereof awarded toWeslern Cherokees ........
Less the payment of .................................
Balance ........ ..................................

$537,561 35
532,896 90
$4,664 45"

No action was taken by Congress on these findings of the
Court of Claims. On February 25, 1889, the act upon which
this suit is founded was approved by the President. 25 Stat.
694.
The case having come on for .hearing in the Court of
Claims, and been duly argued and-submitted, an elaborate
opinion was delivered by Nott, J., November 30, 1891, and
on January 25, 1892, findings of fact and conclusions of law
were filed by that court. On that day a second opinion by
Nott, J., was given, the case having been reopened so far as
to hear counsel and admit documentary evidence relating to
the number of the Eastern Cherokees, who were removed
under the treaty-of 1835, and also to hear counsel with regard
to the form of the decree. 27 Ct. C1. 1, 20, 56.
The account stated by the Court of Claims -is as follows:
"The treaty fund ........ I.............. .................. $5,600,000 00
Less for 800,000 acres of land ................ $500,000 00
For investment in the general land find...... 500,000 00
For improvements of individual Cherokees
1,540 572 27
For ferries belonging to miwduals .......
159,572 12
For spoliations of individuAl property ..... 264,894 09
For expenses of Cherokee committee ........
22,212 76
For removal of 16,957 Cherokees, at $20 each.
839,140 00
3,326,391 24
Giving as the true residuum to be divided ........... $2,273,608 76
Due to the Western Cherokees, one-third of residuum ... $757,869 58
Less payment September 22, 1851, under- the act of September 30, 1850 .................... .................
532,896 90
Leaving as the balance cue the Western -Cherokees

$224,972 68'

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The differences between this account and that of August 8,
1850, and February 3, 1883, are, that the investment of the
permanent land fund was found to be $500,000 instead of
2500,880, the $101,348.31 for debts and claims upon the Cherokee Nation allowed in the two previous reports, and the
former findings of the Court of Claims, was reduced to
$22,212.76 by rejecting therefrom the items of national debt,
$18,062.06, and claims of United States citizens, $61,073.49.
An allowance for the removal of 16,957 Cherokees at $20
each, aggregating $339,140, was made. Atead of for the
removal and subsistence of 18,026 Indians at $53.33 per cap.
ita, $961,386.66, as in the report of August 8, 1850, or the cost
of removal and subsistence of 2495 Indians, at $53.33 per capita, $133,058.35, as shown by the report of February 3, 1883,
and by the previous findings in this regard of the Court of
Claims. There was added also the value of the agency reservation appropriated hy the United States under the treaties
of 1828 and 1833, being $4179.26. The Court of Claims also
found as a conclusion of law that interest at the rate of five
per cent should be allowed on the balance of the residuum of
the treaty fund still due to the Western Cherokees from June
12, 1838, to the entry of judgment, but not upon the amount
of $4179.26, the value of the land last mentioned. It was also
found as a conclusion of law that the receipts given by individual Cherokees did not preclude them from recovering their
just appropriation of theper captafund within the intent of
the act of February, 1889, referring their claims to the court.
The court also made the following ruling
"The findings requested by the claimants to establish the
alleged facts that the treaty of 1846 was procured as against
the Western Cherokees by duress and fraud have been excluded
from consideration by the court, on the ground that it has not
jurisdiction of such a cause of action."
Decree was entered as follows
"It is ordered. and adjudged that the claimants recover of
the defendants the sum of (8224:,972.68) two hundred and
twenty-four thousand nine hundred and seventy-two dollars
and sixty-eight cents, being a balance of the per capita fund

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

provided by the fourth article of the treaty between the
United States and the Western Cherokees, dated August 6,
1846, together with interest thereon from the 12th day of
June, 1838, up to and until the entry of this decree, being the
sum of $603,145.58, and likewise the sum, of $4179.26 for
3343 -,%J acres of land in Arkansas ceded to the United $tates
by article 4 of the treaty of May 6, 1828, amounting, in the
agogegate to the sum of $832,297.52. And it is at the same
time ordered and adjudged that the said amount of eight hundred and thirty-two thousand two hundred and ninety-seven
dollars and fifty-two cents so recovered by the claimants be
held m trust by-the government of the United States and be
paid by the proper agent of the United States to each individual of the claimants entitled to participate in the said per
eapita fund, pursuant to and in the manner provided and
reqired by the fifth article of the said treaty of August 6,
1846."
From tis decree both parties prayed an appeal to this
court.
Subsequently the claimants moved that in preparing the
record for transmission, the Clerk of the Court of Claims be
instructed to include in the transcript "all of the pleading,
orders, evidence, findings of fact, opinons of the court, conclusions of law, and decree, as the same appear of record."
This motion was ovbe'uled. Application was thereupon made
to this court for a writ of-certzorarm to the Court of Claims to
send up all of the evidence used in the trial and hearing -of
the case. The writ was granted and the evidence sent up
accordingly
XMr Reese H. loorkees and .Xr A. I. Garland,(with whom
was fr
-. -eohn Paul Jones on the brief,) for the Old Settlers.
.Mr Solctor General and .M" F P .Dewees for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER delivered the opinon of the
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

In Harvey v United States, 105 U. S. 671, 691, a claim had
been considered by the Court of Claims and judgment rendered for a certain amount, but less than would have been
awarded, but for certain terms of the contract counted on,
which required reformation, on the ground of accident or
mistake, in order fully to express the intention of the parties,
and a special act was passed again referring the claim for
adjudication, and stating- "To that end jurisdiction is hereby
conferred on said court to proceed in the adjustment of the
account between said claimants and the United States, as a
court of equitv jurisdiction, and may, if according to the
rules and frinciples -of equity jurisprudence, m its judicial
discretion, reform said contract and render such judgmnt' as
justice and right between the claimants and the said government may reqire."
On appeal to this court from a decree rendered under this
act, it was contended on the part of the United States that
the appeal could not be -heard, because there was not in the
record "any finding by the Court of Claims! of the facts in
the case, in the nature of a special verdict, with a separate
statement of the conclusions of law upon such facts?' But
this court held, through Mr. Justice Blatchford, that "The
rule m regard to findings of fact has no reference to a case
like the present, of equity jurisdiction conferred in a special
case by a special act, and, in such a case, where an appeal
lies and is taken under section 7(07 of the Revised Statutes,
this court must review the facts and the law as in other cases
in equity, appealed from other courts.'
In the present case the Court of Clains filed findings of
fact and conclusions of law, and declined to send up the evidence. We are of opinion, however, that the rule laid down
in Harvey v Urnited States-is applicable. The claim was referred for adjudication, and jurisdiction was conferred on the
Court of Claims to determine the amount, if any, justly due
from the United States to the Western Cherokees, in a manner
involving the statement of an account, upon the investigation
of controverted items and complicated and involved facts, and
it was declared that it was "the intention of this act to allow

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

the said Court of Claims unrestricted latitude in adjusting
and determimng the said claim, so that the rights, legal and
equitable, both of the United States and of the said Indians,
may be fully considered and determined."
We concur in the statement of Mr. Justice Nott in the opinion of the court below, that the latitude conferred "must be
deemed the unrestricted latitude of a court of equity in stating an account, distributing a fund, and framing a decree, so
comprehensive and flexible as to secure to each suitor his joint
or individual rights."
The remedy in equity in cases of account is generally more
complete and adequate than it is or can be at law, 1 Story
Eq. Jur.

 450, Eilbourn v. Sunder and, 130 U. S. 505, and

we regard the language of the act of Congress as manifestly
used with the intention that equity powers should be exercised
in the disposition of the case. It was upon this view that we
directed the certioroar?to issue, and in arriving at our conclusions, while we have had the advantage of the findings of the

Court of Claims, we have considered and determined the case
foi ourselves upon an examination of the entire evidence.
The prayer of the petitioners is in the alternative First,
that they be relieved from the provisions of the treaty of
1846 on the ground of duress and fraud, and that the United
States be decreed and adjudged to pay them the value of
two-thirds of 13,610,?95.24 acres of land at sixty-two and onehalf cents per acre, being the sum of $5,671,164.72 , together with the sum of $30,000 for property destroyed, and
89119.631 for the agency reservation and improvements in
Arkansas, less one-third of the amount of $500,0001for additional lands and of $500,000 permanently invested, and the
payment in 1851 of $532,896.90, leaving a balance of
$4,844,113.65, with interest at the rate of five per cent per annum from Jame 12, 1838, until paid, second, that, if petitioners
be not entitled to that relief, the United States be decreed to
pay them the sum of $330,756.94, under the provisions of the
fourth article of the treaty of 1846, together with the beforementioned sums of $9179.161 and of $30,000, aggregating
the amount of $369,936.101, with interest as aforesaid.
VOL. CXLIn-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Claims declined to go behind the treaty of
1846 upon the ground that it was not within the province of
a court, either of law or equity, to determine that a treaty or
an act of Congress had been procured by duress or fraud, and
declare it Inoperativ& for that -eason. FVletcher v Peck, 6
Cranch, 87, 130, Exo parte AfaCairdle, 7 Wall. 506, 514, People
v.. Draper,15 N. Y 545, 555, Railroad Company v. Cooper,
33 Penn. St. 278, Wrtght v Defrees, 8 Indiana, 302.
And while it was conceded that Congress mIght confer upon
that court extra-judicial powers, yet the court was of opinion
that this could not be held to have been done by the act
authorizing the institution of this suit, since it was therein
provided that whatever judgment might be rendered, whether
for the complainants or defendants, might be appealed to the
Supreme Court, whose jurisdiction, as defined by the Constitution, was strictly judicial, and could neither be enlarged nor
diminished by legislative authority Gordon v United States,
2 Wall.561, Taney, C. J., 117 U. S. f 97, Appx., In re Sanborn, ante 922.
The contention of the petitioners is that; under the act of
jurisdiction, the treaty of 1846 is to be considered as a contract
in every respect similar to one made between private parties,
and that the United States has no other or greater privileges
or advantages than a private party would have under a similar
contract, and United States v Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 710, 711,
735; is cited. That was a suit for land claimed under a
Spanish grant, and came to this court on appeal from the
decree of the judge of the Superior Court for the Western
District of the Territory of Florida, that court having been
authorized by the act of Congress of May 23, 1828, to receive
and adjudicate upon such claims, upon the petition of the
claimant, "according to the forms, rules and regulations,
conditions, restrictions and limitations prescribed to the district judge, and claimants in Missouri, by the act or the 26th
IMay, 1824."
Reviewing the two statutes, this court said "In conformity
with the principles of justice and rules of equity, then, the
Coirt is *iiected to decide all questions arising in the cause,

DUN ITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

and by a final decree to settle and determine the question of
the validity of the title, according to the law of nations, the
stipulations of any treaty and proceedings under the same,
the several acts of Congress m relation thereto, and the laws
and ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to
be derived, and all other questions which may properly a~ise
between the clanants and the United States, which decree
shall, m all cases, refer to the treaty, law or ordinance under
which it is confirmed or decreed against.
By the
stipulations of a treaty are to be understood its language and
apparent intention manifested in the instrument, with a reference to the contracting parties, the subject-matter, and persons
on whom it is to operate. The laws under which we now
adjudicate on the rights embraced in the treaty, and its instructions, authorize and direct -us to do it judicially and give
its judicial meamng and interpretation as a contract on the.
principles of justice and the rules of equity
The
only question depending is whether the claimants or the
United States are the owners of the land in question. By
consenting to be sued, and submitting the decision to judicial
action, they have considered it as a purely judicial question,
which we are now bound to decide as between man and man,
on the same subject-matter and by the rules which Congress
themselves have prescribed, of which the stipulations of any
treaty and the proceedings under the same, form one of four
distinct ones.
But the court are, in this case, authorized to consider and construe the treaty, not as a contract
between two nations, the stipulations of which must be executed by an act of Congress before it can become a rule for
our decision, not as the basis and only foundation of the title
of the claimants, but as a rule to which we must have a due
regard in deciding whether the claimants have made out a
title to the lands in controversy, - a rule by which we are
neither directed by the law nor bound to make our decree
upon, any more than upon the laws of nations, of Congress, or
of Spain. The acts of 1824 and 1828 autnorize and requre- us
to decide on the pending title on all the evidence and laws
before us. Congress have disclaimed its decision as a political

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

question for the legislative department to decide, and enjoined
it on us as one purely judicial."
It will be perceived that that decision is not authority for
the proposition that a court may be clothed with power to
annul a treaty on the ground of fraud or duress in its execution, nor does any such question arise in the case before us.
There is nothing in the- jurisdictional act of February 25,
1889, inconsistent with the treaty of 1846, (or any other,). and
nothing to indicate that Congress attempted by that act to
authorize the courts to proceed in disregard thereof. Unquestionably a treaty may be modified or abrogated by an act of
Congress, but the power to make and unmake is essentially
political and not judicial, and the presumption is wholly madmissible that Congress sought in this instance to submit the
good faith of its own action or the action of the government
to judicial decision, by authorizing the stipulations in question
to be overthrown upon an inqmry of 'the character suggested,
and the act does not in the least degree justify any such
inference.
The claim referred to the Court of Claims for adjudication
is the claim set forth in the report of the Secretary of the Interior to Congress of February 3, 1883, and that report was
made under the act of Congress of August 7, 1882, which provided that the Secretary should- investigate and report to
Congress what in his opinion wiould be-an equitable settlement
of the matters in dispute between thege Indians and the
United States, "arising from or growing out %Iftreaty stipulations, or the laws of Congress relating thereto, and what
sum or sums of money, if any, should in his opinon be paid
under such settlement." The same language is used in the
act, and the court is "to determine what sum or sums of
money, if any, are justly due from the United States to said
Indians arising from or growing out of treaty stipulations and
acts of Congress relating thereto."
As a case arises under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, whenever its decision depends upon the correct
construction of either, Cohens v Yirginza, 6 Wheat. 264, 379,
Osbo v. Bank of the Unzted States, 9 Wheat. 737, 824, so a

UNITED STATES u OLD SETTLEIRS.
Opinion of the Court.

case arising from or growing out of a treaty is one involvn
rights- given or protected by a treaty Owzngs v .Torwoodts
essee, 5 Cranch, 344, 348.
The settlement of a controversy arising or growing out of
these Indian treaties or the laws of Congress relating thereto,
and the determination of what sum, if ,any, might be justly
due under them, certainly does not include a claim which
could only be asserted by disregarding the treaties or laws, or
holding them inoperative on the ground alleged.
The Court of Claims was indeed to have "unrestricted latitude in adjusting and determining the said claim, sa that the
rights, legal and equitable, both of the United States and of
the said Indians may be fully considered and determined."
But this did not mean that either party was entitled to have
or receive by virtue of the act anything more than each was
entitled to under existing stipulations, or to bring supposed
moral obligations into play for the disposal of the case. ,The
inquiry was not to be technically limited by rules of procedure,
or restrained by the distinctions between law and equity
Proceeding thus untrammeiled, the court was to deduct "all
offsets, counter-claims, and deductions of any and every kind
and character which should be allowed to the United States
under any valid provision or provisions in said treaties and
laws contained, or to which the United States may be otherwise entitled." And, therefore, if conflict existed between
treaty provisions, or between any of them and subsequent acts
of Congress, such provisions might necessarily give way and be
held invalid, but the language used did not involve a confua
sion of the respective powers of the departments of the government, nor furnish a basis for an external attack upon the validity
of executive or legislative action.
Again, the determination of what, if anything, was justly
due, was to be arrived at upon a full consideration of "whether
or not the said Indians have heretofore adjusted and settled
their said claim with the United States." That claim was
the clan referred to the court, the claim which was reported
upon by the Secretary, the claim which arose and grew oit of
treaty stipulations, the claim which was prefgired m the pro-

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.,

test of 1851, and not a claim for the loss of two-thirds of
seven million acres of land and of exclusive rights m the outlet. There had been such a claim as the latter, but it had
been definitively relinquished and released by the treaty
The terms of the treaty of 1828, by which the seven million
acres were guaranteed to the Cherokees, while the Western
Cherokees were alone being dealt with, expressed that the purpose was to provide a home for the whole Cherokee peo-ile,
including those East as well as those West. By article two of
the treaty of 1835, the conveyance of land by the treaties of
1828 and 1833 is declared to have been to the Cherokee Nation
of Indians, and eight hundred thousand acres additional -was
agreed to be conveyed in consideration of the sum of $500,000,
that there might be no question as to there being a sufficient
quantity of land for the accommodation of the whole nation
on their removal West. That treaty was wholly inconsistent
with the attitude subsequently assumed. The patent of December 31, 1838, ran to the Cherokee Nation. There are
many documents m the record indicative of the view of the
Indian Olfice that the Western Cherokees were only a contingently separate community from the Eastern body, and were
subject to increase by the immigration of those East, and that
they did not have, as an independent community, any ownership of the land, or rights therein, except what belonged to
them in common with the whole Cherokee people. .At the
same time, the Western Cherokees did set up the opposite
contention, and prosecuted it with the greatest vigor and ability before the political departments of the government, especially during the years 1842 to 1846. Indeed, prior to 1842,
they seem to have acquiesced in the treaty-of 1835, and welcomed not only the treaty party, but the great body of the
Eastern Cherokees, to participation with them under existing
laws. The papers presented in their behalf show, as stated
by counsel, the moscareful preparation and noticeable ability In a memorial bearing date June 16, 1843, their alleged
grievances were set forth n exten.o, and it was insisted that
by the forcible removal of the Eastern Cherokee Indians and
their -settlement among them, the Western Cherokees had

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

been in effect dispossessed of two-thirds of their land. But
in June, 1846, the Western Cherokees offered to submit their
claims to a board of connmmissioners, to be appointed by the
President and Senate of the United States, which commission
it was stipulated should be invested with. Tull power to settle
the matters in controversy, according to the treaty stipulations.
The commission was appointed, and its decision was against
the claim of the Western Cherokees to the exclusive ownership of and rights in the land in question. On the 3d of
August, 1846, the delegates representing the Western Cherokees declared that they did not acqmesce in the decision of
the commissioners on this point, and should reassert "their
exclusive right to the country," "should the treaty now -proposed fail from any cause", but the treaty did not fail, and,
on the contrary, was duly executed by the parties' on the 6th
day of the same month. And this was followed by the
accounting under the treaty, the act of Congress of September, 1850, and the payments made and receipted for thereunder. True, there was a protest that the receipts then given
ought not to exclude these Indians from obtanmg, a further
amount, but that protest was chiefly based upon the deduction
of the cost of subsistence from the treaty fund, and asserted.no
claim on account of the land, nor the invalidity of the treaty
M[oreover, they remained silent. so far as appears from this
record, from 1846 until 1875, and when they commenced the
agitation of renewed demands the grounds assigned conceded
the binding force of the treaty, but questioned the payment
under it as a final settlement of what was due.
Upon the facts in this record we can discover no ground
for the revival of controversy by the Western Cherokees as
to their ownership of or rights in the lands west of the
M[ississippi, and hold that any such claim in respect thereof
as is put forward in the petition cannot be successfully maintained from any point of view If any matter ever can be put
,at rest, that has been, and the treaty of 1846 has presented for
nearly fifty years an insuperable bar to such a contention.
The treaty declared "1that the land now occupied by the
Cherokee Nation shall be secured to the whole Cherokee

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

people for their common use and benefit", and that whereas
it had been decided by the board of commissioners appointed
to examine and adjust the claims and difficulties existing
against and Between the Cherokee people and the United
States,, as well as between the Cherokees themselves, that
under the provisions of the treaty of 1828 the Western
Cherokees "had no exclusive title to the territory ceded in
that treaty, but that the same was intended for the use of,
a~d to be the home for, the whole nation, including as well
that portion then east as that portion then west of the
Mississippi", and that the Western Cherokees had a claim
upon the United States, growing out of the equitable operation of the same treaty, as having a common interest in the
lands occupied by the Cherokees east of the Mississippi
River, as well as having retained a common interest "in the
general funds of the nation," the ascertainment of "the
value of that interest" was provided for, and the government
agreed to distribute it among the Western Cherokees.
In consideration of the premises, the Western Cherokees
released and quitclaimed to the United States all right,
title, interest or clain they might have to a common property in the Cherokee lands east of the Mississippi River,
and to exclusive ownership to the lands west of the Mississippi,
including the outlet west, "consenting and agreeing that the
said lands, together with the eight hundred thousand acres
ceded to the Cherokees by the treaty of 1835, shall be and
remain the common property of the whole Cherokee people,
themselves included."
In order to arrive at the amount to be distributed .pe2
capita to the Western Cherokees, or Old Settlers, it was
agreed that from the $5,600,000, the investments and expenditures properly chargeable thereon, and enumerated in
the fifteenth article of the treaty of .1835, excluding all extravagant and improper expenditures, should be deducted, and
that one-third of the residuum should constitute the value of
their interest, and, consequently, the amount for distribution.
An accounting was had accordingly, and the amount ascertained appropriated and paid over.

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinon of the Court.

But it is argued that the object of the suit before us was
to permit a relitigation of the correctness of that amount,
and a determination as to whether anything more should
have been paid at that time. And we are confronted by
the objection, strongly urged onbehalf of the United States,
that, by the terms of the jurisdictional act, if it be found
that "the said Indians have heretofore adjusted and settled
their said claim with the -United States," such adjustment
and settlement must be treated as conclusive.
We agree, as was said in the case of Choctaw Nation, 119
U. S. 1, 29, that where, in professed pursuance of treaties,
statutes have conferred valuable 'benefits upon the ,Indians,
"which the latter have accepted, they partake of the nature
of agreements - the acceptance of the benefit, coupled with
the condition, implying an assent on the part of the recipient
to the condition, unless that implication is rebutted by other
and sufficient circumstances." And it is also true that when
a party, without force or intimidation, and- with a full knowledge of all the facts in the case, accepts, on account of an
unliquidated and controverted demand, a sum less than what
he claims and believes to be due him, and agrees to accept
that sum in full satisfaction, he will not be permitted to avoid
his act on the ground of duress. United States v Child, 12
Wall. 232, 244.
But we think, under all the circumstances disclosed here,
that Congress being convinced that a mistake had probably
been made in the accounting in a matter which the Indians
from the first had called attention to, and deltoms, as being
the- stronger party to the controversy, that that superior
justice, which looks only to the substance of the right, should
be done in the premises, voluntarily waived any reliance
upon lapse of time or laches, and, after attempts on its own
part to arrive at a satisfactory result, determined to obtain a
judicial interpretation of the treaties and laws bearing upon
the subject, and to be bound by judicial decision in respect
of the conclusions flowing therefrom, and arrived at upon
equitable principles, and that the jurisdictional act passed
in effectuation of such intention left it open to the courts to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

readjust the amount notwithstanding the claim might have
been theretofore settled. In other words, if the adjustment
and settlement were found to have been made upon an erroneous interpretation, which led to an obvious mistake, then
Congress designed that the mistake should be corrected. We
therefore proceed to examine the account m question in
accordance with what -we believe to have been the intention
of Congress in the passage of this act.
As we have said, the investments and expenditures which
were properly chargeable upon the 85,600,000 were to be
deducted, and they were the investments and expenditures
particularly enumerated in the fifteenth article of the treaty
of 1835. That article provided for the deduction of the
amounts "actually expended for the payment for improvements, ferries, claims for spoliations, removal, subsistence,
and debts and claims upon the Cherokee Nation, and for an
additional quantity of land, and goods for the poorer class
of Cherokees, and the several sums to be invested for the
general national funds provided "for in the several articles
of this treaty" The national fund of $500,000 embraced
the items last mentioned, and no dispute arises here as to
that sum or the sums of $500,000 for the additional quantity
of land, $1,540,572.27 for improvements, $159,572.12 for
ferries, and $264,894.09 for spoliatmons. Petitioners claim,
however, that no deduction should have been made for subsistence, and that the stun allowed for removal should be
limited to 2200 Indians at $20 per head, and they further
insist upon an allowance of $30,000 for property destroyed,
while they abandon their claim for $9179.161 as the value
of the Arkansas agency land and unprovements, and concede
that the sum of $4179.26 therefor, as found by the court
below, may be accepted as correct. The Court of Claims
disallowed the item of $30,000, and charged for the removal
of 16,957 Cherokees at $20 each, and an item for the expenses of the Cherokee committee of $22,212.76.
We concur in the rejection of the claim for $30,000, which
finds its basis in a resolution of a council of the Western
Cherokees of November 16, 1846, asking the government to

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

appropriate that sum to pay off damages and losses alleged
to have been sustained by individual Indians in being compelled to leave their homes and go to the States for safety
No such claimants appear or are represented here, and the
claim has no relation to per captta distribution. There is
no color for its revival m this proceeding.
It was agreed by article four of the treaty of 1846 that, so
far as the Western Cherokees were concerned, in estinating
the expenses of removal and subsistence of an Eastern Cherokee to be charged to the aggregate fund, the sums for removal
and subsistence stipulated in the eighth article of the treaty
of 1835 as commutation money should be adopted. That
commutation was placed in the eighth article at $20 Per
capita for removal and $33.33 for subsistence. The persons
composing the treaty party voluntarily emigrated to the
Indian Territory prior to 1838 to the number of 2200, and
they took with them 295 slaves of African descent. The
Court of Claims properly considered that the expenses to be
deducted could only apply to Cherokees, and, therefore, that
the slaves could not be included in making the deduction as
between the Western Cherokees and the United States, but
to the 2200 the court added the 14,7 57 Eastern Cherokees,
who were removed in 1838, and, rejecting any deduction for
subsistence, charged the commutation price of $20 for 16,957
persons. We are satisfied from a careful examination of the
evidence that the number was determined with all the accuracy possible, and should not be disturbed. And in view
of the decision of the Senate by the adoption, September 5,
1850, of the first resolution, reported August 8, 1850, it is
obvious that the expense of subsistence should not have been
and \ould not be deducted.
T 'ourth article of the treaty of 1846 fixed a commutation ior subsistence as well as for removal, but the eleventh
article provided that whereas the Cherokee delegates contended that the amount expended for one year's subsistence
was not properly chargeable to the treaty fund, it was thereby
agreed that that question should, be submitted to the Senate
for its decision, which should decide whether the expense

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

should be ,borne by the United States or the Cherokee funds,
and the Senate, thus made the umpire, (it having been found
that the $1,04-7,067 appropriated by the act of June 12, 1838,
did not fully cover the expense of subsistence, resolved that
the -Indians were entitled to $189,422.76 for subsistence,
"being the difference between the amount allowed by the act
of June 12, 1838, and the amount actually paid and expended
by the United States, and which excess was improperly
charged to the treaty fund in the report of the accounting
officers. of the Treasury" This decision was accepted and
the money appropriated to make good the award. The act
of 1838 grew out of the inducements offered in promotion of
the removal of the entire body, and made the appropriation
in discharge of an assumed obligation to subsist the Indians,
if they would remove, notwithstanding the involuntary character of that removal. Taking the acts of 1838 and 1850,
with the decision of the Senate, there can be no question that
the United States concluded to ber and did bear the entire
expense so far as subsistence was concerned. The Court of
Claims, therefore, correctly deducted the sum of $339,140 for
the removal of the whole number of Cherokees at $20 per
head, and declined to deduct any charge for subsistence. It
was really over this item tiat the sharpest controversy ensued,
for by the original accounting the sum of $961,383.66 had
been deducted for the removal aad subsistence of 18,026
Cherokees, at $53.33.- per head, which was erroneous as to
the number, and on account of the inclusion of the commutation of $33.33* for subsistence.
In the account stated by the accounting officers of the
Treasury, December 3, 1849, the sum of $101,348.31 was
deducted from the fund for debts and claims upon the Cherokee INation, made uD of these items For national debts,
$18,062.06, for claims of United States citizens, $61,073.49,
and for the Cherokee committee, $22,212.76. This sum of
$101,348.31 was also deducted in the account stated in the
report of the Senate committee of August 8, 1850, in the
report of the Secretary of the Interior of February 23, 1883,
and in the findings of the Court of Claims under the reference
in February, 1884.

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinion of the C6urt.

The Court of Clains in this suit rejected the items of
$18,062'06 and $61,073A9, because, in the opinion of the court,
there was no-evidence to connect these items with the fund
for distribution, while it held the *item of $22,212.76 for the
expenses of the Cherokee committee as properly chargeable
under the twelfth article of the treaty of 1835, which provided for a committee to carry the treaty into effect. We are
not persuaded that this conclusion was correct. Under the
tenth article of the treaty of 1835, the United States agreed
to pay the just debts and claims against the Cherokee Nation
held by citizens of the same, and also the just claims of citizens of the United States for services rendered to the nation,
and it was stated that "the sum of sixty thousand dollars is
appropriated for this purpose." This should be regarded as
$60,000 of the total amount, and in our judgment the debts
and claims upon the Cherokee Nation mentioned m article
fifteen, and to be deducted under article four of the treaty of
1846, should be confined, so far as the Western Cherokees are
concerned, to $60,000, and that amount is justly chargeable
against the fund, but we are not satisfied that the expenses
of the committee authorized by the twelfth article of the
treaty of 1835, which was a committee to recommend persons
for the privilege of preemption rights and to select missionaries, as well, indeed, as to transact all business which might
arise m carrying into effect the provisions of the treaty, ought
to be charged in addition.
In view of these considerations we find and state the
account as follows
The treaty fund ..........
...........................
LessFor 800,000 acres of land .....................
For general fund .........................
For improvements ..........................
For ferries .................................
For'spolations ...............
..........
For debts, &c..............................
For removal of 16,957 Cherokees at $20 each.

$5,600,000 00
$500,000
500,000
1,540,572
159,572
264,894
60,000
339,140
$3,364,178

Giving as the residuum to be divided ...............

00
00
27
12
09
00
00
48

3,364,178 48
$2,235,821 52"

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.
One-third due to the Western Cherokees ..................
Less payment September 22, 1851 ............. .........

$745,273 84
532,896 90

Leaving a balance of .......................... $212,376 UJ4

And the recovery should also include the sum of 84179.26
for the Arkansas agency
By the second resolution adopted by the Senate, as umpire,
September 5, 1850, it was decided that interest should be
allowed, at the rate of five per centum per annum, upon the
sum found due the Western Cherokees, from June 12, 1838,
until paid. As before stated, our conclusion is zhat the sum
then found due was less than should have been found by the
amount of $212,376.947.
Under section 1091 of the Revised Statutes, no interest can
"be allowed on any claim up to the 'time of the rendition of
judgment thereon by the Court of Claims, unless upon a contract expressly stipulating for the payment of interest", and
in Tillson v U'nted States, 100 U. S.43, it was held that a
recovery of interest was not authorized under a private act
referring to the Court of Claims a claim founded upon a contract with the United States, which did not expressly authorize
such recovery But in this case, the demand of interest formed
a subject of difference while the negotiations were being carried on, the determination of which was provided for in the
treaty itself, that determination was arrived at as prescribed,
was accepted as valid and 'binding by the United States, and
was carried into effect by the payment of $532,896.90, found
due, and of $354,583.25 for interest. 9 Stat. 556, c. 91.
In view of the terms of the jurisdictional act and the conclusion reached in reference to the amount due, it appears to us that
the decision of the Senate in respect of interest is controlling,
and thit, therefore, interest must be allowed from June 12,
1838, upon the balance we have heretofore indicated, but not
upon the item of $1179.26, which stands upon different ground.
The question remains as to the character in which petitioners
come into court and to whom the amount awarded should be
distributed.
The "Old Settler,," or Western Cherokees,- are not a gov-

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinon of the Court.

ernmental body politic, nor have they a corporate existence,
nor any 'capacity to act collectively The money belongs to
them as individual members of an Indian community, recognized as'such by the treaty of 1846, and treated as distinct
and separate from the Cherokee Nation, so far as necessary
to enable the government to accord them- their treaty rights.
They are described m the fourth article of the treaty as "all
those Cherokees west of the Mfississippi, who emigrated prior
to the treaty of 1835", and they may be held to include those
now living who so emigrated, together with the descendants
of those who have -died, the succession to -be determined by
the Cherokee law. The petition does not set forth their names,
nor the extent of the rights and interests claimed, respectively,
but purports to be brought by three persons, "for themselves
and as commissioners" of the Western Cherokees, and they
alleged that the claimants "are the remaining part of those
Cherokee Indians who formed and composed the Western
Cherokee Nation, and that they have maintained their separate 'organization so far as to adjust and settle their claims
against the United States." IBut the evidence is quite inadequate to justify the court in treating the immediate petitioners
as.appointed by all the -beneficiaries as their agents to receive
and disburse the amount awarded.
The lands west of the Tissisippi were held as communal
property, not vested in the Cherokees as individuals, as tenants in comrni gi or joint tenants, but by the treaties of 1835
and 1846 the communal character of the property was termi&ted as to both Eastern and"'Western Cherokees, and the
fund, taking the place of the realty, was invested in the
various ways we have mentioned, leaving the remainder to be
distributed _er capita. The Western Cherokees were paid
under the treaty of 1846, simply as citizens of the Cherokee
Nation, entitled to receive the money, as having emigrate d
prior to 1835, or the descendants of such.
The Court of Claims at first decided that the decree should
be in the form usually used where a suit is prosecuted by
individuals for themselves and others,, that is to say, that the
general liability should be established, and then provision

OCTOBER

TERM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.

made for the individual Old Settlers. or Western Cherokees,
to come m and establish their right to~share in the fund.
It was said in Smith v Swormnstedt, 16 How 288, 302, 303,

that "the rule is well establisned that where the parties
interested are numerous and the suit is for an object common
to them all, some of the body may maintain a bill on behalf
of themselves and all the others", but that "in all cases
where exceptions to the general rule are allowed, and a few
are -pernmtted to sue, or defend, on behalf of the many, by
representation, care must be taken that persons are brought
on the record fairly representing the interest or right involved,
so that it may be fully and honestly tried." And, notwithstanding the suggestion that these so-called commissioners
do not bring themselves as strictly within the rule upon this
subject as they should, yet we think that they do so far represent the interests or rights involved that the case may be
allowed to proceed to judgment.
The Court of Claims, after delivering its opimon, suspended
the entry of the decree which it had indicated its intention to
render, and after argument had upon the question, modified
that opinion, and held that the fifth article of the treaty of
1846 applied as to the distribution, and entered a decree
accordingly The court was quite right in holding that the
amount found due should not be decreed to be received and
disbursed by the: three petitioners as a commission, and that
it was not necessary that the decree should require the beneficiaries to come into that tribunal and prove up against the
fund. The fifth article of the treaty provided that the per
capita allowance to be given to the Western Cherokees should
be held in trust by the United States, and "paid out to each
individual belonging to that party, or head of family, or his
legal ropresentatives," and "be paid directly to the persons
entitled to it, or to his heirs or legal representatives," and
that the persons entitled to it should be ascertained by a
committee of five appointed by the President of the United
States from the Western Cherokees, and an agent of the
United States. The court was of opinion that the rule thus
prescribed should be followed as to this balance of the amount

UNITED STATES v. OLD SETTLERS.
Opinion of the Court.

intended for per capita distribution, and it was in accordance
with this view that the decree was finally entered.
We approve of this disposition of the matter as just and
appropriate under the circumstances, and a competent exercise
of judicial power. The court decides and pronounces the
decree to be carried into effect as between the persons and
parties who ha-ve brought the case before it for decision, and
none the less so, because it leaves the mere matter of distribution to be conducted in the manner and through the agencies pointed out m the treaty
The result is that we concur substantially in the conclusions
reached by the Court of Claims, whose laborious and painstaking examination of the case has been of great assistance in
the investigation we have bestowed upon it, 4id in respect of
the difference in the amount found, we direct the decree to be
modified so as to provide for the recovery of the defendants
of the sum of two hundred and twelve thousand three hundred and seventy-six dollars and ninety-four cents ($212,376.94).instead of the sum of two hundred and twenty-four
thousand nine hundred and seventy-two dollars and sixtyeight cents, ($224,972.68,) in full of the per eapita fund provided by the fourth article of the treaty between the United
States and the Western Cherokees, dated August 6, 1846,
together with interest thereon at the rate of five per centum
per annum from the 12th day of June, 1838, up to and until
the modification of the decree, in addition to the sum of four
thousand one hundred and seventy-nine dollars and twentysix cents, ($4,179.26), and as so modified to be
A flrmed.

MR.JUSTICE

JAcKsow did not sit in this

part in its decision.
voL. cxLvm-3 i

se or take aiy,

