IN

RE SOHNEIDER, Petitioner.

(No. 1.)

Statement of the Case.

In re SCHNEIDER, Petitioner. (:No. 1.)
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted March 13, 1893.-

Decided March 14, 1893.

A writ of error from this court does not lie to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, dismissing the petition of a convict
for a writ of habeas co:pus.

THE petitioner, a prisoner confined in the jail of the District
of Columbia, under a sentence of death, by his attorneys,
moved for a writ of error from this court to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, refusing to issue a writ of h4abeas o'pus, which had been prayed
for in a petition to that court. The substance of the averments
in the petition is printed in the margin.1

I The petition of Howard J. Schneider and of J. Mf. Wilson, William F.
Mattingly and A. A. Hoehling, Jr., his attorneys, and in his behalf, respectfully represents.
1. That the petitioner, Howard 3. Schneider, is a citizen of the United
States and a resident of the District of Columbia, and that lie is unlawfully
restrained of his liberty by the above-named respondent, Jerome B. Burke,
in the District of Columbia.
2. Your petitioners further say that the facts concerning the detention of
petitioner Schneider by the said respondent, and the claim or authority
under and by virtue of which said petitioner is so detained, are as follows:
That on the Ilth day of FebruarV, A.D. 1892, said petitioner was indicted
by the grand jury of. the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, holding a criminal term, on the charge of having murdered Amanda M. Schneider;. that, thereafter, such -proceedings were had in said court as that said
petitioner was arraigned and tried on said indictment, and a verdict of
guilty as charged in said indictment was returned against him on the 9th
day of April, A.D. 1892, upon which verdict the judgment of the court
was thereafter had, and sentence of death pronounced on, to wit the 7th
day of May, A.D. 1892.
That, thereafter, an appeal was taken from the said judgment to the said
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, tiohling a general term, and,
afterwards, to wit, on the 9th day of January, A.D. 1893, the said judgment
was, by said Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, holding a general
term, affirmed, and the said petitioner, under and m pursuance of the pro-

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Argument for Petitioner.

JVr Williamr F .2lattingly, .Mr Jeremtah ..
MAlr A. A. Hoehling, Jr., for the petitioner.

Wilson and

This is an application for writ of error to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in
ceedings hereinbefore set forth, was committed to the custody of the said
Jerome B. Burke, warden of the jail of the District of Columbia, and who
now holds the said petitioner in custody under and pursuant to said commitment; and to execute said sentence of death on March 17th, A.D. 1893.
3. Your petitioners further aver that said judgment and the said order of
commitment, and the said detention of petitioner Schneider by the said
warden, pursuant thereto, was, and each of them is, unlawful and void,
and that your petitioner is now restrained of his liberty under or by color
of the authority of the United States, in violation of the Constitution and
laws of the United States, in this, that the right of petitioner, secured and
guaranteed him by the Constitution of the United States, to a trial by an
impartial jury was denied him, as will more fully appear by reference to
the record of said case, and all the proceedings in said trial, and of the
hearing before the said general term, as announced by Air. Justice Cox, all
of which are filed herewith and prayed to be taken and read as a part of this
petition.
4. Your petitioners further say that, among other reasons why said petitioner Schneider is unlawfully detained, inviolation of his rights under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, are the following, to wit.
(a)
iThat
the said petitioner Schneider, by the proceedings of said court
(as will more fully and at large appear by reference to said record), was
deprived of his constitutional right to be tried by an impartial jury.
(b) That by the laws of the District of Columbia, under and pursuant to
which the said proceedings were had, your petitioner Schneider was entitled to have twenty peremptory challenges, to be exercised at his will and
according to his own discretion in respect to persons who were legally
competent to sit as jurors in said case, of which right lie was deprived, as
in said record more fully appears, and to which reference is hereby made.
(c) That during the course of the selection of the jury in said case the
followiig, named jurors, who had been summoned as such and examined
on their vozr dire were severally cliallenged for cause by your petitioner
[here follow the names] each one of which said several challenges for
cause was by the court overruled, and exception noted by the petitioner to
the action of the court in holding said several so challenged for cause to be
competent.
(d) That said petitioner exercised each one of the said twenty peremptory challenges allowed him by law, and, when he had so exhausted his
twenty peremptory challenges, there still remained on the jury two jurors,
as to each of whom your said petitioner had been by the court overruled,

IN 'RE SO-NEIDER, Petiioner.

(No. 1.)

Argument for Petitioner.

dismissing the petition of Howard J Sbhneider in that court
for a writ of habeas corpus, based upon the averment that, in
his trial, he was denied the right and privilege, secured him
and said jurors, over the objection of the petitioner, were held to be competent, and sat in the trial of the said case.
(e) That among other of the jurors so challenged for cause by petitioner,
and by the court held to be competent against the objection of petitioner,
was one Charles W Morris, who, being examined on his voir dire touching
his competency to sit as a juror, testified as follows. [Here follows the
testimony and a statement that a full and complete record of the case is
attached.]
5. Your petitioners aver that in and by the action of the court in the
matter of the selection of the jury, and over the objection of the petitioner
Schneider, holding to be competent as jurors to sit in the-trial of said case
said several jurors so challenged for cause, he was deprived of his right to
a trial by an impartial jury, secured him by the Constitution of the United
States.
And your petitioners further say that .in consequence of said jury, by
which said petitioner Schneider was tried, not being such an impartial jury
as he was entitled to have under the Constitution of the United States, for
the reasons hereinbefore given, said court holding a criminal term was
without jurisdiction and power to proceed with said trial, and to award
judgment on said verdict, and that all said proceedings based thereon were
null and void.
Wherefore your petitioners pray that the writ of -habeas corpus may
issue, directed to said Jerome B. Burke, commanding hini to produce your
petitioner Schneider before your honorable court, and that such proceedings may be had as may be in accordance with law.
Your petitioners, the above-named attorneys, state and aver that the
reasons for uiting in this petition are the followingThat the said Howard J. Schneider has refused to read or to permit to
be read to him, or to execute a petition similar to the foregoing, in hi individual name. That, in their opinion, he was unable to comprehend either
the purport or the necessity for the petition, and that his mental condition
is such that, in the opiiion of these petitioners, he is unable to intelligently
comprehend and make affidavit to the same.
HOWARD J.

By J. M.

SCHNEIDER,

WILSON,

His Attorney.
J. M. WILSON,
W31. F. MATTINGLY,
A. A. HOEHLING, Jr.,
Attorneys for Howard J. Schneider

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Petitioner.

by the Constitution of the Unaited States, to be tried by an
impartial jury
Under section 846 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia, this court has jurisdiction, upon writ of error or
appeal from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
in the same cases, and in like manner, as provided by law m
reference to the final judgments, orders and decrees of the
Circuit Courts of the United States.
Section 847 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia provides that "no cause shall be rdmoved from the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to the Supreme
Court of the United States by appeal or writ of error unless
the matter in dispute shall be of the value of one thousand
dollars, or upward, exclusive of costs, except in the cases provided for in the following section."
The cases provided for in the following section (see. 848)
are cases in which the matter in dispute shall be of the value
of one hundred dollars and less than one thousand dollars, involving questions of law of such extensive interest and opera-

tion as to render the final decision of them by the Supreme
Court of the United States desirable.
Section 847 was amended February 27, 1877, "by striking
out the last words in the following section," and inserting the
words "authorized by law," so that, as amended, that section would read "INo cause shall be removed from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to the Supreme Court
of the United States by appeal or writ of error unless the
matter in dispute in such case shall be of the value of one
thousand -dollars or upward, exclusive of costs, except in the
cases provided for authorized by law"
What .ases are provided for, authorized by law 9
By section 699 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
a writ of error may be allowed to review any final judgment
at law, and an appeal shall be allowed from any final decree
in equity hereinafter mentioned, without regard to the sum or
value m dispute. Omitting clauses 1, 2 and 3, the section
continues
"Fourth. Any final judgment at law or decree in equity of

IN RE SCHNEIDER, Petitioner.

(N'o. 1.)

Argument for Petitioner.

any Circuit Court, or of any District Court acting as a Circuit
Court, in any case brought on account of the deprivation of
any right, privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution
of the United States, or of any right or privilege of a citizen
of the United States."
This proceeding in the court -below for the writ of habeas
corpus is a civil case, brought on account of the deprivation of
the right and privilege to be tried by an impartial jury secured the petitioner by the Constitution of the United States,
and on which the judgment of the court below was final,
denying the writ and dismissing the petition.
The act of March 3, 18S5, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, provides
That no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed
from any judgment or decree in any suit at law or in equity
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or in the
Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United States,
unless the matter m dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars.
SEC. 2. That the preceding section shall not apply to any
case whereii is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of or an authority exercised under the United
States, but in all such cases an appeal or writ of error may
be brought without regard to the sum or value in dispute.
It may be claimed that the above act is a repeal or a substitute for section 847 of the Revised Statutes of the District,
but we. submit that repeals by implication of law are not
favored, nor permitted, where the two acts can stand together.
See Chew Heong v Unsted States, 112 U. S. 536, 549, 550,
and cases cited.
If this act. of 1885 is a repeal of said section 817, then, inasmuch as the act of 1885 also includes the Territories, upon
the same principle it would involve the repeal of section 1909,
which gives this court jurisdiction on writs of error and appeal
from the final decisions of the supreme courts of certain named
Territories, where the value of the property or the amount in
controversy exceeds one thousand dollars, or upon writs of
habeas corpus involving the question of personal freedom.
VoL. cxLvI-I i

OCTOBER TERT&,; 1892.
Statement of the Case.

That section 1909- has not been considered by this court as
repealed by said act of 1885, is manifest from the decisions
of this court upon questions of habeas corpus from those
Territories. 1hans Y ielsev, Petitioner,131 U S. 176.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE The application for a writ of error or
appeal is denied upon the authority of Cross v Burke, 146
U. S. 82, In re leath, Petitioner,144 U S. 92, Cross, Petztwner, 146 U S. 271, Cross v United States, 145 U. S. 571.
See also Railroad Co. v Grant, 98 U. S. 398, Dennzsom v.
Alexander, 103 U S. 522, United States ex rel. Traskc v
Wanainaker, 147 U. S. 149.
TFrit denied.

In re SCHNEIDER, Petitioner.

(No. 2.)

ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted Mfarch 13,1893.-

Decided March 14, 1893.

Leave to file petitions for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or the officers of the District
acting under a judgment of that Court, will be denied, when the ground
of the application relates to an error in the proceedings of that Court,
and does not go to its jurisdiction or authority.

THIS was a petition to this court by Howard J Schneider,
and Jeremiah M. Wilson, William F Mattingly, and A. A.
Hoehling, Jr., his attorneys, and in his behalf. The allegations
in the petition were substantially identical with those in the
petition set forth in the margin in In re Schneider, Petitioner,
(No. 1) ante, 157. The prayer was as follows:
"Wherefore your petitioners pray that the writ of habeas
corpus issue to Jerome B. Burke, the warden of the United
States jail, in the District of Columbia, commanding him to
produce the body of the petitioner, Schneider, in court forthwith, together with the cause of his detention as a prisoner
by said warden, and that petitioner, Schneider, may be discharged and set- at liberty, and petitioners furthermore pray

