BARNUM v. OKOLONA.
Opinion of the Court.

BARNUM v. OKOLOKA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
io. 154. Argued and submitted March 22, 183.-Decided April 3, 1893.

Town bonds having more than ten years to run, issued by a town in Mississippi under the act of March 25, 1871, of the legislature of Mississippi,
to aid in the construction of the Grenada, Houston and Eastern Railroad
are void.
Woodruff v. Okolona, 57 Mississippi, 806, approved and followed..
That municipal corporations have no power to issue bonds in aid of a railroad except by legislative permission; that the legislature, in granting*
permission to a municipality to issue its bonds in aid of a railroad, may
impose such conditions as it may choose; and that such legislative permission does not carry with it authority to execute negotiable bonds
except subject to the restrictions and conditions of the enabling act, are
propositions well settled by frequent decisions of this court.
A.RGUMENT in this case was commenced by the counsel for
the plaintiff in error. At the close of his opening the court
declined to hear further argument.

.3k E. E. Brstow, (with whom was _Yb
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

W B. Walker

.A.' William T Houston, .Afr 1) IF Boustom and X'
R. 0. Reynolds for defendant m error.
M . JsTICE SEIRAs delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of March 25, 1871, of the State of Mississippi authorized certain counties, cities, and towns to aid m the construqtion of the Grenada, Houston and Eastern Railroad, by
subscribing for capital stock of the company organized to
build and maintain that railroad.
The 4th and 5th sections of said act were as follows
"SEc. 4. Be it further enacted, That it shall and may be
lawful for the boards of supervisors of any county which

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opunon of the Court.

shall have voted a tax as provided by this act, or of the act to
which this act is amendatory, to issue bonds due and payable
at such time or times as said boards of supervisors may deem
best for the taxpayers of their respective counties, not to
extend beyond ten years from the date of issuance, for such
sums as said boards of supervisors may deem necessary to
meet, pay off, and discharge the subscriptions of said counties
respectively for capital stock in the Grenada, Houston and
Eastern Railroad Company, which have been or which may
hereafter be subscribed for by said boards of supervisors, or
by the boards of police (as the case may be) respectively, not
to exceed the total sum of such stock subscriptions, which
said bonds shall be signed by the president of the board of
supervisors issuing the same, and be made payable to the president and directors (:f the Grenada, Houston and Eastern
Railroad Company and their successors and assigns, and may
be assigned, sold and conveyed, with or without guarantee of
payment, by the said president and directors, or may be mortgaged m like manner at their discretion as they may deem
best for the company
"SEc. 5. Be ttfurter enacted, That it shall be lawful for
the mayor and selectmen of any incorporated city or town
who may have subscribed, or shall hereafter subscribe, for
capital stock in the Grenada, Houston and Eastern Railroad
Company, as authorized by this act, or the act of which this
act is amendatory, to issue bonds of their respective corporations in 'the same manner and with the like offect sufficient m
amount to meet the total sum of their respective subscriptions
for stock, as the boards of supervisors of the different counties
are by this act authorized to do, and all bonds and coupons of
interest issued by said mayor and selectmen shall be alike
binding upon said towns respectively, m their corporate capacity, as the said bonds so issued by the said boards of supervisors shall be binding upon said counties respectively "
In pursuance of the powers so conferred the town of Okolona
subscribed for stock in the said company, and paid for the
same by executifig and delivering to the railroad company its
bonds, bearing date September 1, 1871, with coupons attached,

B R

UM v. OKOLONA.

Opimon of the Court.

payable in New York city to bearer, and maturing -at from
eleven to seventeen years after their date. The bonds recite
that they are "issued and delivered to the Grenada, Houston
and Eastern Railroad Company by the town of Okolona to
meet and pay off the amount subscribed by said town to the
capital stock of the railroad company aforesaid."
Frank D. Barnum, a citizen of Tennessee, brought an action
of debt against the town of Okolona at the April term, 1889,
of the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Mississippi, and averred in his declaration that he
was the holder and owner for value, and before the maturity
thereof, of sixteen bonds of said town with their coupons
attached, which were due and unpaid, and the amount
whereof he was entitled to recover. The declaration likewise averred that said bonds recited that they had been issued
in pursuance of the said act of March 25, 1871.
To this declaration the defendant demurred, and assigned
for cause, among other things, -that it appeared, in and by said
declaration, that the bonds sued on were payable more than
ten years after their execution, and were, therefore, void.
Upon argument, the court below sustained the defendant's
demurrer, whereupon the plaintiff sued out this writ of error
to this court.
That municipal corporations have no power to issue bonds
m aid of a railroad except by legislative permission, that the
legislature, in granting permission to a municipality to issueits bonds in aid of a railroad, may impose such conditions as
it may choose, and that such legislative permission does not
carry with it authority- to execute negotiable bonds except
subject to the restrictions and conditions of the enabling act,
are propositions so well settled by frequent decisions of this
court that we need not pause to consider them. Sheboygan
County v Parker,3 Wall. 93, 96, Wells v. Buyermors, 102
U. S. 625, Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U S. 400, Young
v. Clarendon Townshk, 1.32 U. S. 340, 346.
Accordingly if, in the present instance, the legislature of
Mississippt in. authorizing the town of Okolona to.subscribe
for stock in a railroad company and to - pay for the same by

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

an issue of bonds, prescribed that such bonds should not extend
beyond ten years from the date of issuance, such limitation
must be regarded as in the nature of a restriction on the
power to issue bonds. .forton v Dyersburg, 127 U. S. 160,
Brenhkam v German Amemcan Bank, 144 T. S. 173, 188.
It is, however, contended on behalf of the plaintiff m error
that no such limitation was put, by the enabling act, -on bonds
issued by towns, that the restriction to a limit.of ten years,
contained in the -th section of the act of March 25, 1871, was
applicable only to the case of bonds issued by counties. It is
true that, in the 5th section of the act, which conferred the
power on towns and cities to subscribe for railroad stock and
pay therefor m bonds, no express provision is found as ro the
length of tine during which the bonds should run. As, however, the 5th section doves provide that the bonds to be given
by towns shall be issued "in the same manner and with the
like effect sufficient m amount to meet the total sum of their
respective subscriptions for stock, as the boards of supervisors
of the different counties are by this act authorized to do," and
that all "bonds and coupons of interest issued by said mayor
and selectmen shall be alike binding upon said towns respectively, m their corporate capacity, as the said bonds so issued
by the said boards of supervisors shall be binding upon said
counties respectively," it seems plain that the legislative intent
was that the bonds of the towns should be subject to the tenyear limitation contained in the 4th section. This is the fair
and obvious import of the language used.
The question involves the construction of the statute of
Mississippi, and has been decided by the Supreme Court of
that State in the case of Woodb uff v Okolrna, 57 Mississippi,
806, where it was held that bonds issued under that act, having
more than ten years to run; were void, and where, in order to
reach that conclusion, it was necessary to hold that the limitation of ten years for the running of the bonds contained in
the 4th section was applicable to bonds issued by towns under
the 5th section.
As aqgamst a party who became the owner of such bonds
before the decision of the Supreme Court of the State was

