OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Syllabus.

paid were such as to render the claimant amenable to the
charge. The evidence is not before us in any form, nor are
there findings of fact in respect to the conduct and behavior
forming the subject of inquiry The specifications were not
objected to for insufficiency, and cannot properly be held to
be, on their face, incapable of sustaining the charge. As the
court-martial had jurisdiction, errors in its exercise, if any,
cannot be reviewed in this proceeding. -Dynesv HIoover, 20
How

65 ,

-eyes

v. United States, 109 U.

S. 336,

Smith v

ll itney, 116 U. S. 167.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded,with a

direction to dismzss thte petition.

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION
COMPANY

TELEGRAPH

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOUR I.
No. 94. Argued December 16, 1892. -Decided

March 6,1893.

In this case it appears by the bill of exceptions that there was an application at the close of the trial for an instruction that the plaintiff was entitled to judgment for the sum claimed, which was refused and exception
taken, and this is held to present a question of law for the consideration
of this court, although there were no special findings of fact.
When the trial court, in a case where some facts are agreed and there is
oral testimony as to others, makes a ruling of law upon a point not affected by the oral testimony, this court may consider it notwithstanding
the fact that there was oinly a general finding of facts.
A muncipal charge for the use of the streets of the municipality by a
telegraph company, erecting its poles therein, is not a privilege or
license tax.
A telegraph company has no right, under the act of July 24, 1865, c. 230,
14 Stat. 221, to occupy the public streets of a city without compensation.
This case presents no question of estoppel.
Whether such tax is reasonable is a question for the court.

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.

93

Statement of the Case.
Ox February 25, 1881, the city of St. louis passed an ordinance, known as ordinance -No.11,604, authorizing -anytelegraph or telephone company duly incorporated according to
law, doing business or desiring to do business in the city of.
St. Louis, to set its poles, pins, abutments, wires and other fixtures along and across any of the public roads, streets and
alleys of the city, subject to certain prescribed regulations.
Sections six, eight and nine read as follows.
"SEc. 6. Every telegraph or telephone company doing business in this city shall keep on deposit with the treasurer the
sum of fifty dollars, subject to the order of the street commissioner, to be used by him in restoring any sidewalk, gutter,
street or alley pavement displaced or injured in the erection,
alteration or removal of any pole of such company, when said
company refuses or fails to make such restoration to the satisfaction of such commissioner. Any company failing to make
such deposit within thirty days after the passage of this ordinance, or within five days after commencing business, if a new
company, or which shall fail to make good the amount when
any portion of it has been expended as herein provided, within
five days after notice so to do has been sent by the street commissiouer, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as hereinafter provided."
"SE . 8. Any company erecting poles under the provision
of this ordinance shall, before obtaining a permit therefor from
the board of public improvements, file an agreement in the
office of the city register permitting the city of'St. Louis to
occupy and use the top cross-arm of any pole erected, or which
is now erected, for the use of said city for telegraph purposes
free of charge.
"SEc. 9. Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be so
construed as to in any manner affect the right of the city in
the future to prescribe any other mode of conducting such
wires over or under its thoroughfares."
On arch 22, 1881, another ordinance, known as ordinance
No. 12,733, was passed. This ordinance was- entitled "An
ordinance to amend ordinance number 11,604," etc., and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

amended that ordinance by adding certain sections, of which
section 11 reads as follows.
"SEc. 11. From and after the first day of July, 1884, all
telegraph and telephone companies, which are not by ordinance taxed on their gross income for city purposes, shall pay
to the city of St. Louis, for the privilege of using the streets,
alleys and public places thereof, the sum of five dollars per
annum for each and every telegraph or telephone pole erected
or used by them in the streets, alleys and public places in said
citV "

This section continued in force and was incorporated into and
became a part of an ordinance of the city entitled "An ordinance in revision of the ordinances of the city of St. Louis,
and to establish new ordinance provisions for the government
of. said city," approved April 12, 1887, and numbered 14,000,
the section being in said revised ordinance known as section
671 of article 8 of chapter 15.
The Western Union Telegraph Company being one of the
companies designated in section 671, not taxed on its gross income for city purposes, and failing to pay the sum of five dollars per annum for each telegraph pole, as required by said
section, on April 7, 1888, there was filed in the pffice of the
clerk of the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis a petition;
setting forth these various ordinances, alleging that the telegraph company had during the three years last past held,
owned and used in the streets and public places of the city of
St. Louis 1509 telegraph poles, and praying to recover the
sum of $22,635 therefor. This suit was removed by the telegraph company to the United States Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Missouri, and on February 16, 1889, an.
amended answer was filed by the company, admitting its use
of the streets of the city of St. Louis as charged, and that it
was not taxed on its gross income for city purposes, but denying the validity of the sail ordinance, a-ndthe authority of the
city to pass it. It also set up as defences that it was a corporation chartered, created and organized under the laws of the
State of New-York, that it owned, controlled and used lines
of telegraph in various parts of the United States, which con-

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.

95

Statement of the Case.

nected with its lines in the city of St. Louis, that on the 5th
of June, 1867, it duly filed with the Postmaster General of the
United States a written acceptance of the restrictions and
obligations required by law under and in accordance with the.
act of Congress of the United States, approved July 241, 1866,
entitled "An act to aid. in the construction of telegraph lines
and to secure to the government the use of the same for
postal, military and other purposes," and that it had ever since
been subject to and complied with the ,terms of such act, that
the streets and public places of the city of St. Louis were
established post roads of the United States, under and in pursuance of the laws of the United States, and of the authorized
rules and regulations of the officers and departments of the
United States, made, passed and adopted in pursuance of said
laws, that it has constructed, operated and maintained its
lines of telegraph in the city of St. Louis under and by virtue
of the authority of said acts of Congress, that while the city
of St. Louis claims compensation from the defendant in the
sum of five dollars per annum on account of each and every
telegraph pole in the streets, alleys and public places in the
city, yet in fact the said sum so assepsed and sought to be recoxered from it is a privilege or license tax for the privilege of
carrying on its business in the city. of St. Louis, and that its
assessment and attempted enforcement and collection are in
violation of article I, section $, paragraphs 3 and 7, of the
Qqnstitution of the United States.The defendant also alleged tht .it had complied with all
the terms of ordinance No. 11,604, and, further, that during
the time set forth in the petition all its property within the
city of St. Louis was assessed in pursuance of law for-the
purpose of taxation by the State -and city, and that it hadlpaid all taxes levied thereon, and, still further, that the ordinance set forth imposed upon defendant a burden and tax
additional to the taxes regularly assessed upon the property of
defendant, without any corresponding or special advantage to
the defendant, and that, in so far as it attempted to exact
five dollars per annum for each pole, it,was unreasonable,
unjust, oppressive and void. The case was tried by the cburt

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

without a jury, and on June 17, 1889, a judgment was entered
in favor of the defendant, the court holding that the burden
imposed was a tax, and imposed in such form that it could
only be regarded as a privilege or license tax, which the city
.ad no authority to impose. 39 Fed. Rep. 59. To reverse
such judgment, the city sued out a writ of error from this
court.
_.2r "if"
C. J2farshall for plaintiff in error.
.Mr JoIv F Dillon, (with whom was _Yr Rush Taggart
on the brief,) and .MrElenzous Smith, (with whom were .3k
/ha/-les IF WVells, .X2 Ifillard Brown and Mr George H.
Fearons on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTin-.

BRiEwR,. after stating the case, fdelivered the

opinion of the court.
At the threshold of the case we are met with the objection
that there are no special findings of facts, and that, therefore,
our inquiry is limited to questions arising upon the pleadings,
or upon rulings made by the court during the progress of the
trial. We have had occasion in a recent case, coming from
the same court, to consider to what extent our inquiry may
go in a case tried by the court without a jury, in which there
are no special findings of facts, and it is, therefore, unnecessary to consider that question at length. Lehnen v Dwkson,
ante, 71.
It is enough to say that in this case there was, as appears
by the bill of exceptions, an application at the close of the
trial for a declaration of law, thatthe plaintiff was entitled to
judgment for the sum claimed, which instruction was refused,
and exception taken, and this, as was held in.orrzs v. faekcson,
9 Wall. 125, presents a question of law for our consideration.
Further, there was, as also appears in the bill of exceptions,
an agreement as to certain facts, which though not techncally
such an agreed statement as is the equivalent of a special
finding of facts, yet enables us to approach the consideration

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.

97

Opinion of the Court.

of the declaration of law with a certainty as to the facts upon
which it was based. It is true that, in addition to these
agreed facts, there was some oral testimony, but as it appears
xrom the opinion of the court that it made a distinct ruling
upon a proposition of law not at all affected by the oral testimony, and which in its judgment was decisive of the case, we
cannot avoid an inquiry into the matter thus determined.
We, therefore, pass to a consideration of such questions as are
distinctly presented and clearly involved.
And, first, with reference to the ruling that this charge was
a privilege or license tax. To determine this question, we
must refer to the language of the ordinance itself, and by
that we find that the charge is imposed for the privilege of
using the streets, alleys and public places, and -is graduated
by the amount of such use. Clearly, this is no privilege or
license tax. The amount to be paid is not graduated by the
amount of the business, nor is it a sum fixed for the privilege
of doing business. It is more in the nature of a charge for
the use of property belonging to the city-that which may
properly be called rental. "A tax is a demand of sovereignty,
a toll is a demand of proprietorship." State Fezght Tax
Case, 15 Wall. 232, 278. If, instead of occupying the streets
and public places with its telegraph poles, the company should
do what it may rightfully do, purchase ground in the various
blocks from private individuals, and to such ground remove
its poles, the section would no -longer have any application to
it. That by it the city receives something which it may use
as revenue, does not determine the character of the charge or
make it a tax. The revenues of a municipality may come
from rentals as legitimately and as properly as from taxes.
Supposing the city of St. Louis should find its city hall too
small for its purposes, or too far removed from the centre of
business, and should purchase or build another more satisfactory in this respect, it would not thereafter be forced to
let the old remain vacant or to immediately sell it, but might
derive revenue by renting its various rooms. Would an ordinance fixing the price at which those rooms could be occupied
be in any sense one imposing a tax 9 Nor is the character of
voL. cxLvHin-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

.the charge changed by reason of the fact that it is not imposed
upon such telegraph companies as by ordinance are taxed on
their gross income for city purposes. In the illustration just
made in respect to a city hall, suppose that the city; in its
ordinance fixing a price for the use of rooms, should permit
persons who pay a certain amount of taxes to occupy a portion
of the building free of rent, that would not make the charge
upon others for their use of rooms a tax. Whatever the
reasons may have been for exempting certain classes of companies from this charge, such exemption does not change the
character of the charge, or make that a tax which would
otherwise be a matter of rental. Whether the city has power
to collect 'rental for the use of streets and public places, or
whether, if it has, the charge as here made is excessive, are
questions entirely distinct. That this .is not a tax upon the
property of the corpor'ation, or upon its business, or for the
privilege of doing business, is thus disclosed by'the very terms
of the section. The city has attempted'to make the telegraph
company pay for appropriating to its own and sole use a part
of the streets and public places of the city It is seeking to
collect rent. While we think that the Circuit Court erred in
its conclusions as to the character of this charge, it does not
follow therefrom that the judgment should be reversed, and a
judgment entered in favor of the city Other questions are
presented which compel examination.
Ias the city a right to charge'this defendant for the use of
its-streets and publio places" And- here, first, it may be well
to consider the nature of the use which is made by the defendant of the streets; and the general power of the public to exact
compensation for the use of streets and roads. The use which
the defendant makes of the 9treets is an exclusive and permanent one, and not one temporary, shifting and in common
with the general public. The ordinary traveller, whether on
foot or in a vehicle, passes to and fro along the streets, and his
use and occupation thereof are temporary'and shifting. The
space lie occupies one moment he abandons the next to be
occupied by any other traveller. *This use is common to all
menibers of the public, and it is a-use open equally to citizens

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH

CO. 99

Opinion of the Court.

of other States with those of the State in which the street is
situate. But the use made by the telegraph company is, in
respect to so much of the space as it occupies with its poles,
permanent and exclusive. It as effectually and permanently
dispossesses the general public as if it had destroyed that
amount of ground. Whatever benefit the public may receive
in the way of transportation of messages, that space is, .so far
as respects its actual use for purposes of a highway and personal travel, wholly lost to the public. By sufficient multiplication of telegraph and telephone companies the whole space
of the highway might be occupied, and that which was designed for general use for purposes of travel entirely appropriated to the separate use of companies and for the transportation
of messages.
We do not mean to be understood as questioning the right
of municipalities to permit such occupation of the streets by
telegraph and telephone companies, nor is there involved here
the question whether such use is a new servitude or. burden
placed upon the easement, entitling the adjacent lot owners to
additional compensation. All that we desire or need to notice
is the fact that this use is an absolute, permanent and exclusive appropriation of that space in the streets which'is occupied
by the telegraph poles. To that extent it is a use different in
kind and extent from that, enjoyed by the general public.
Now, when there is this permanent and exclusive appropriation of a part of the highway, is there in the nature of things
anything to inhibit the public from exacting rental for the
space thus occupied 2 Obviously not. Suppose a municipality
peymits one to occupy spac,,in a public park, for the erection
of a booth in which to sell fruit and other articles, who would
question the right of the city to charge for the use of the
ground thus occupied, or call such charge a tax, or anything
else except rental2 So, in like manner, while permission to a
telegraph company to occupy the streets is not technically a
lease, and does not in terms create the relation of landlord and
tenant, yet it is the giving of the exclusive use of real estate,
for which the giver has a right. to exact compensation, which
is in the nature of rental. We do not understand it to be

OCTOBER TERh12,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

questioned by counsel for the defendant that, under the constitution and laws of Missouri, the city of St. Louis has the
full control of its streets, and in this respect represents the
puolic in relation thereto.
It is claimed, however, by defendant, that under the act of
Congress of July 24, 1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221, and by virtue
of its written acceptance of the provisions, restrictions and
obligations imposed by that act, it has a right to occupy the
streets of St. Louis with its telegraph poles. The first section
of that act contains the supposed grant of power. It reads
"That any telegraph company now organized, or which may
hereafter be organized under the laws of any State in this
Union, shall have the right to construct, maintain and operate
lines of telegraph through and over any portion of the public
domain of the United States, over and along any of the military or post roads of the United States which have been or
may hereafter be declared such by act of Congress, and over,
under or across the navigable streams or waters of the United
States Promded, That such lines of telegraph shall be so
constructed and maintained as not to obstruct the navigation
of such streams and waters, or interfere with the ordinary
travel on such military or post roads." By sec. 3964, Rev.
Stat. U. S. "The following are established post roads
All letter-carrier routes established in any city or
town for the collection and delivery of mail matters." And
the streets of St. Louis are such "letter-carrier routes." So
also by the act of March 1, 1884, 23 Stat. 3 "All public
roads and highways, while kept up and maintained as such,
are hereby declared to be post routes."
It is a misconception, however, to suppose that the franchise
or privilege granted by the act of 1866 carries with it the
unrestricted right to appropriate the public property of a
State. It is like any other franchise, to be exercised in subordination to public as to private rights. While a grant from
one government may supersede and abridge franchises and
rights held at the will of its grantor, it cannot abridge any
property rights of a public character created by the authority
of another sovereignty No one would suppose that a fran-

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. 101
Opinion of the Court.

chise from the Federal government to a corporation, State or
national, to construct interstate roads or lines of travel, transportation or communication, would authorize it to enter upon
the private property of an individual, and appropriate it without compensation. No matter how broad and comprehensive
might be the terms in which the franchise was granted, it
would be confessedly subordinate to the right of the individual not to be deprived of his property without just compensation. And the principle is the same when. under the
grant of a franchise from the national government, a corporation assumes to enter upon property of a public nature belonging to a State. It would not be claimed, for instance, that
under a franchise from Congress to construct and operate an
interstate railroad the grantee thereof could enter upon the
state-house grounds of the State, and construct its depot there,
without paying the value of the property thus appropriated.
Although the state-house grounds be property devoted to public uses, it is property devoted to the public uses of the State,
and property whose ownership and control are in the State, and
it is not within the competency of the national government to
dispossess the State of such control and use, or appropriate the
same to its own benefit, or the benefit of any of its corporations or grantees, without suitable compensation to the State.
This rule extends to streets a:nd highways, they are the public property of the State. While for purposes of travel and
common use they are open to the citizens of every State alike,
and no State can by its legislation deprive the citizens of another State of such common use, yet when an appropriation
of any part of this public property to an exclusive use is
sought, whether by a citizen or corporation of the same or
another State, or a corporation of the national government,
it is within the competency of the State, representing the
sovereignty of that. local public, to exact for its benefit compensation for this exclusive appropriation. It matters not for
what that exclusive appropriation is taken, whether for steam
railroads or street railroads, telegraphs or telephones, the State
may if it chooses exact from the party or corporation given
such exclusive use pecuniary compensation to the general pub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

lic for being deprived of the common use of the portion thus
appropriated.
This is not the first time that an effort has been made to
withdraw corporate property from state control, under and
by virtue of this act of Congress. In lFestern Unzon Telegraph Company v A3fassachusetts, 125 U S. 530, the telegraph
company. set up that act as a defence against state taxation,
but the. defence was overruled. Mr. Justice Miller, on page
548, speaking for the court, used this language "This, however, is merely a permissive statute, and there is no expression
in it which implies that this permission to extend its lines
along roads not built or owned by the United States, or over
and under navigable streams, or over bridges not built or
owned by the Federal government, carries with it any ex
emption from the ordinary burdens of taxation. While the
State could not interfere by any specific statute to prevent a
corporation from placing its lines along these post-roads, or
stop the use of them after they were placed there, nevertheless
the company receiving the benefit of the laws of the State for
the protection of its property and its rights is liable to be taxed
upon its real or personal property as any other person would
be. It never could have been intended by the Congress of
the United States in conferring upon a corporation of one
State the authority to enter the territorv of any other State
and erect its poles and lines therein, to establish the proposition that such a company owed no obedience to the laws of
the State into which it thus entered, and was under no obligation to pay its fair proportion of the taxes necessary to its
support."
it it is, as there held, simply a permissive statute, and nothing in it which implies that the permission to extend its lines
along roads not built or owned by the United States carries
with it any exemption from the ordinary burdens of taxation,
it may also be affirmed that it carries with it no exemption
from the ordinary burdens which may be cast upon those who
would appropriate to their exclusive use any portion of the
public highways.
Again, it is said that by ordinance No. 11,604 the city con-

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. 103
Opinion of the Court.

tracted with defendant to permit the erection of these poles
in consideration of the right of the city to occupy and use the
top cross-arm of any pole for its own telegraph purposes, free
of charge, and in support of that proposition the case of lYew
Orleans v Southern Telephone d Telegraph Co., 40 La. Ann.
41, is cited. But in that case it appeared that the telephone
company had set its poles and constructed its lines under and
by virtue of the grant made by the ordinance, and hence the
conditions named therein were held part of the contract between the city and the telephone company, which the former
was not at liberty to disregard. As stated in tle opinion,
page 45 "Obviously, upon the clearest considerations of law
and justice, the grant of authority to defendant when accepted
and acted upon, became an irrevocable contract, and the city
is powerless to set it aside or to interpolate new and more
onerous considerations therein. Such has been the well-recognized doctrine of the authorities since the Dartmouth Colleqe
case, 4 Wheat. 518." The same principle controlled the cases
of Commonwealth v.
-% ew Bedford Bridge, 2 Gray, 339,
Zansas City v Carrigan,86 Missouri, 67, Chicago v. Sheldon,
9 Wall. 50.
But the difficulty of the application of that doctrine in this
case is that there is nothing to show that a-single pole was
erected under or by virtue of ordinance No. 11,604. The only
statement in the agreed facts is that they were erected prior
to July 1, 1884. If we turn to the oral testimony, there is
nothing tending to show that any were erected after the 25th
of February, 1881, the date of the passage of ordinance No.
11,604. On the contrary, that testimony shows that the
company had been engaged in the telegraph business in the
city of St. Louis for 15 years or more prior to 1881. There is
nothing, either, in the agreed facts, as to the use of the top
cross-arm of any poles by the city of St. Louis, and the testimony tends to show that they were so used prior to 1881.
Whatever, therefore, of estoppel might arise if anything
•had been done by the telegraph company under the ordinance
to change its position, as the case now stands none -can be
invoked, and all that can be said of the ordinance is that, 'U

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

its application to the facts as they appear, there is simply a
temporary matter of street regulation, and one subject to
change at the pleasure of the city It is unnecessary, however, to consider these matters at length, for on a new trial
the facts in respect thereto can be more fully developed. It
is true that ii cases tried by the court, where all the facts are
specifically found or agreed to, it is within the power of this
court, in reversing, to direct the judgment which shall be
entered upon such findings. At the same time if for any
reasons justice seems to require it. the court may simply
reverse and direct a new trial. Indeed, this has been done,
under special circumstances, in cases where there were no
findings of facts or agreed statement, or where that which
was presented was obviously defective. Graham. v Bayne,
18 How 60, Flanders v Tweed, 9 Wall. 425.
Another matter is discussed by counsel which calls for
attention, and that is the proposition that the ordinance
charging five dollars a pole per annum is unreasonable, unjust and excessive. Among other cases cited in support of
that proposition is .Piladelphiav. Tfestern Unwn Tel, Co.,
40 Fed. Rep. 615, in which an ordinance similar in its terms
was held unreasonable and void by the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. We
think that question, like the last, may be passed for further
investigation on the subsequent trial. .Primafacze, an ordinance like that is reasonable. The court cannot assume that
such a charge is excessive, and so excessive as to make the
ordinance unreasonable and void, for, as applied in certain
cases, a like charge for so much appropriation of the streets
may be reasonable. If within a few blocks of Wall Street,
New York, the telegraph company should place on the public
streets 1500 of its large telegraph poles, it would seem as
though no court could declare that five dollars a pole was an
excessive annual rental for the ground so exclusively appropriated, while, on the other hand, a charge for a like number
of poles in a small village, where space is abundant and land
of little value, would be manifestlv unreasonable, and might
be so excessive as to be void. Indeed, it may be observed, in

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. 105
Dissenting Opinibn. Brown, J.

the line of tne thoughts heretofore expressed, that this charge
is one in the nature of rental; that the occupation by this
interstate commerce company of the streets cannot be denied
by the city, that all that it can insist upon is, in this respect,
reasonable compensation for the space in the streets thus exclusively appropriated, and it follows in the nature of things
that it does not lie exclusively in its power to determine what
is reasonable rerital. The inquiry must be open in the courts,
and it is an inquiry which must depend largely upon matters
not apparent upon the face of the ordinance, but existing only
in the actual state of affairs in the city
We think that this is all that need be said in reference to
the case as it now stands. For the reasons given, the judgment is
Reversed and the case remandedfor a new trzal.
MiR. JusTicE BnowN¢ dissenting.
The tax in this case cannot be considered, and does not
purport to be a tax upon the property of the defendant.
The gross disparity of the tax to the value of such property
is of itself sufficient evidence of this fact - the total valuation
of all of defendant's property in the city of St. Louis in 1884,
as fixed by the state board of equalization, being but $17,064.63, while the tax of 85 upon 1509 poles amounted to
$7545, or more than 44 per cent of the entire value of the
property
If it be treated as a tax upon the franchise then it is clearly
invalid within the numerous decisions of this court, which deny
the right of a State or municipality to impose a burden upon
telegraph and other companies engaged in interstate commerce
for the exercise of their franchises. Leloup v .Mobile, 127
U, S. 640, Robbzns v Shelby Taxng District,120 U S. 489,
.Moran v New Orleans, 112 U S. 69, Harmon v City of hneago, 147 U. S. 396, Western Unton Telegraph Co. v -Alabama,
132 U. S. 472, Pafic Express Co. v Seibert, 142 U. S. 339.
If this tax be sustainable at all it must be upon the theory
adopted by the court that the municipality has the right to

OCTOBER TERTM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

tax the company for the use of its streets. While I have no
doubt of its right to impose a reasonable tax for such use, the
tax must be such as to appear to have been laid bona ftde for
that purpose. It seems to me, however, that the imposition
of a tax of $5 upon every pole erected by the company
throughout the entire municipalitv is so excessive as to indicate that it was imposed with a different object. In the city
of St. Louis alone the tax amounts, as above stated, to $7545.
A similar tax in the city of Philadelphia amounted to $16,000,
while the facts showed that, at the most, only $3500 per year
was required to cover every expenditure the city was obliged
to make upon this account. P/iladelphua v IF U Tel. Co.,
40 Fed. Rep. 615. A like tax imposed by every city through
which the defendant company carries its wires would result
practically in the destruction of its business. While, as stated
in the opinion of the court, $5 per pole might not be excessive
if laid upon poles in the most thickly settled business section
of the city, the court will take judicial notice of the fact that
all the territory wiLhin the boundaries of our cities is not
densely populated, that such cities include large areas but
thinly inhabited, and that a tax which might be quite reasonable if imposed upon a few poles would be grossly oppressive
if imposed upon every pole within the city In my opinion
the tax in question is unreasonable and excessive upon its face,
and should not be upheld. The fact that it was nominally
imposed for the privilege of using the streets is not conclusive
as to the actual intent of the legislative body. As was said
by this court in the Passenger Cases, 7 How 283, 458 "It is
a just and well-settled doctrine established by this court, that
a State cannot do that indirectly which she is fo-rbidden by
the constltutiQg~ to do directly If she cannot levy a duty or
tax from the master or owner of a vessel engaged in commerce
graduated on the tonnage or admeasurement of the vessel, she
cannot effect the same purpose by merely changing the ratio,
and graduating it on the number of masts, or of mariners, the
size and power of the steam engine,.or the number of passengers which she carries. We havte to deal with things, and we
cannot change them by changing their names."

