OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

COMINEROIAL BANK OF PENNSYLVANIA
ARMSTRONG.
ARMSTRONG v. COMMERCIAL BANK OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
NoA. 76, 77, Argued December 5, 6,1892.-Decided March 6,1893.
A bank in Ohio contracted with a bank in Pennsylvania, to collect for it at
par at all points west of Pennsylvania, and to remit the 1st, ifth and
21st of each month. In executing this agreement the Pennsylvania bank
stamped upon the paper forwarded for collection, with a stamp prepared
for it by the Ohio Bank, an endorsement "Pay to" the Ohio Bank "or
order for collection for" the Pennsylvania Bank. The Ohio bank failed,
having in its hands, or in the hands of other banks to which it had been
sent -for collectiont.proceeds of paper sent it by the Pennsylvania Bank
for collection. A receiver being appointed, the Pennsylvania Bank
brought this action to recover such proceeds. Held,
(1) That the relation between the banks as to uncollected paper was
'that of principal and agent, and that the mere fact that a subagent of the Ohio Bank had collected the money due on such paper
was-not a commingfing of those collections with the general funds
of the Ohio Bank, and did not operate to relieve them from the
trust obligation created by the agency, or create any difficulty-in
specially tracing them;
(2) That if the Ohio Bank was indebted to its subagent, and the collections, when made, were entered. ip their books as a credit to
such indebtedness, they were thereby reduced to possession, and
passed into the general funds of the Ohio Bank;
(3) That by the terms of the arrangement the relation of debtor and
creditor was created when the collections were fully made, the
funds being on general deposit with the Ohio Bank, with the
right in that bank to their use until the time of remittance should
arrive.

ON the 23d of November, 1887, the Commercial National
Bank of Pennsylvania filed its bill of complaint in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern" District of Ohio,

COMMERCIAL BANK" OF PEN1N. v. .ARMSTRONG.

.51

Statement of the Case.

against David Armstrong' receiver of the- Fidelity :National
Bank of Cincinnati. the purpose of which bill was to charge
the defendant, as trustee of the plaintiff, for $17,460.32,
certain funds in his possession. To this bill of complaint the
defendant duly appeared and answered. After the taking of
testimony, the case was submitted on pleadings and proofs,
and on the 8th of June, 1889, a decree was entered in favor
of the plaintiff, directing the defendant to pay' to it the sum
of $7209.59, which he was adjudged to hold as trustee; and
also whatever sums he might thereafter receive from the
receiver of the Fifth National Bank of St. Louis, Missouri,
as dividends upon the sum of $1577.89, the amount of paper
transmitted to that bank for collection. From this decree
both parties appealed to- this court.. The opinion of the
Circuit Court was delivered by Jackson, Circuit Judge, and
will-be found in 39 Fed. Rep. 684.
The transactions between the two banks originated -in the
following letter, sent by the Fidelity National Bank to the
plaintiff
"U S. Depository
"The Fidelity National Bank.
"Capital, $1,000,000.
"Briggs Swift, president, E. L. Harper, vice-president, Ammi
Baldwin, cashier, Benjamin E. Hopkins, ass't cashier.
"CINc'INATr,, 2; 12, 1887.
"Com'l Nat. B'k, Philada., Pa.
Enclosed herewith we hand you our last
"GENTLE.vEN
statement, showing us to be the, second bank in Ohio in
deposits in the tenth month of our existence. We should be
pleased to serve you, and trust you will find it to your
advantage to accept one of the following propositions
"No. 1. We will collect all items at par and allow 232-%
We will
interest on daily balances, calculated monthly
remit any balance you have above $2000 in New York draft,
as you direct, or ship currency at your cost for expressage.
"No. 2. Will collect at par all points west of Pennsylvania
and remit the 1st, 11th, and 21st of each month.

-OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"No. 3. We will collect at par Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky
items, and- remit balance every Monday by draft on New
York.
"We do not charge for exchange on propositions No. 1, 2
and 3.
"No. 4. Will collect -Cincinnati items and remit daily at
40 cents per thousand, or 20 cents for $500 or less.
"1National banks not in a reserve city can count all they
have with us as reserve.
"Your early reply will oblige, respectfully yours,

"1E. L.

RAmiPER,

7F

To this letter the plaintiff replied on February 18, accepting
proposition, No. 2, and thereafter, from tine to time, forwarded paper for collection. The Fidelity Bank caused to
be made and sent to the plaintiff a rubber stamp, for use in
endorsing paper thus forwarded. This stamp read as follows
"Pay Fidelity National Bank of Cincinnati, 0., or order,
for collection for Commercial Bank of Philadelphia, Pa.

" E. P

GRAAy3,

Casher"

Business.was carried on between the two banks under this
arrangement until June 20, 1887, when the Fidelity Bank
failed, having in its hands, .or in the"hands of other banks to
which the same had been sent by it for collection, proceeds
of paper forwarded by plaintiff after June 4, amounting to
$16,851.92. The only correspondence which took place during
this time between the parties, which can- be considered as
throwing any light upon the arrangement between them,
was a letter from the plaintiff of Ifav 25, as follows "We
don't wish to complain, but would like to understand why
your remittance to us of May 21 only included items sent you
up to May 14 and received by you on the 16th. We have to
explain these things to our depositors, and wish to act intelligently on the subject." And a reply in these words
"We collect at par and include in our remittances everything
collected to date."

COMMERCIAL BANK OF PENN. v..ARMSTRONG.
Mr.

53

Hoadly's Argument for Commercial ]Bank.

The conclusions of the Circuit Judge were, that the relation
between the two banks- was that of principal and,agent, a
relation which continued not only While the pappr was -hold,
by the ,Fidelity Bank, but after the moneys had been collected
thereon, but that in order to enforce a-.trust in favor of the
plaintiff, as to any of the moneys so collected, they must be
specifically traceable, and that -it was not sufficient to showthat by collection they had passed 'into the general funds of,
the bank. This paper. had substantially all passed into. tbe
hands of other banks., to whom it bad been sent by the Fidelity
Bank, as its subagentsi and the Circuit Judge, held that, if the
Fidelity was indebted to these local banks, subagents, and
the collections, when made, were entered in their books as a
credit to such indebtedness, .they must be considered as xeduced to possession and. as. having passed into the general
fnnds of the Fidelity, but tbati on the other hand, if the
Fidelity was not* indebted; to the subagent, banks, and the
collections remained In their hands to be subsequently remitted
to the Fidelity, and in. fact were paid' to the receiver after his
appointment, they were, specifically traceable, and were therefore subject to the trust createdl by the relationship between
the. two banks, and payment thereof could be enforced out
of the funds in the hands of the receiver.
21r George Hoadly, J'., for the Commercial Bank. Mr
Edward Coston, 21g, 7ohn parhawk and Mr., Judson Hagmon, were -with him on the brief.
As to the appeal, of the Commercial Bank, the Fidelity
Bank received from it for collection, as. its agent, the paper,
the proceeds of which are here in controversy Thereafter,
the same having come into the bands of subagencies of the
Fidelity Bank, which subagencies. had from the form of the
endorsement actual notice of complainant's rights, respondent,
without the knowledge or consent of complainant, 'converted
the-same to his own use, -by consenting that said subagencies
should apply the same in.
payment of debts due t6 them from
the Fidelity Bank. There-was in. cash in the Fidelity at, the

OCTOBER- TERM, 1892.
'Xr.'Eterrons Argument for Armstrong.

date of its failure $110,000, which came to the hands of
respondent as its receiver. We claim that under the circumstances thus detailed complainant is entitled to a charge on
the funds in the Fidelity Bank for the amount of its claim.
The Fidelity Bank having received- complainant's paper
upon trust to collect the same and remit the proceeds, might
collect-it 'in many ways. If, for example, the paper were
the, check of one of its customers, on his account, it would
simply charge the check to his account, and thereupon the
proceeds would -be a part of the cash in its hands, not actually
distinguished, but entirely capable of being so by taking out
that amount of money So if being indebted to a correspondent it paid its debt with complainant's paper. At the time it
did so it, collected that paper, at least as against :complainant, and complainant had a right to assert that it had that
amount of cash in its treasury That being so, there was no
lawful way of getting it out-except by paying it to complainant, and the rule of .Kwatcbullv. Eallett, 13 Oh. D. -696; that
drafts will always be- applied to that which may lawfully be
-drawn out, applies, 'and the complainant's money in both the:
foregoing cases-was in the Fidelity Bank at the time of its
lailure, and came to the defendait as a,trustee for complainant
Peak v Ellicott, 30 Kansas, 156, People v. Rochester City
Bank, 96 N. Y 32, IlfoLeod v. Evans, 66 Wisconsin, 401.
Upon the authorities cited and- for the reasons given we
submit that the decree of the Circuit Court, so far as it denied.
complainant the relief sought in -the bill, should be reversed,
and that a decree should be rendered in this court requiring
respondent to pay to complainant the amount of its claims in
full, with interest and costs
WHerron for Armstrong, receiver.
3fr JohnT.
I claim that from the manner in which it was sent and received, being sent for crbdit, and being at the time charged to
the Fidelity National, and being credited by the Fidelity as it
was received, that amounted, as between the two banks, to a
collection. The -paper became the property of the Fidelity

COMMERCIAL BANK OF PENN. v. ,ARMSTRONG.

55

Mr. Herron's Argument-for Armstrong.

with the endorsement on. it of the Commercial,, which' endorse,ment enabled the Fidelity to hold the Commercial-for repayment, if it was not paid and properly protested. I, however,
regard this as in the present case immaterial. It was certainly
collected, when the payer of it paid it fo the--bank which held
it, which bank had received it from the Fidelity for collection.
And if such payment was made before the failure of the
Fidelity, as was the case as to almost all the .paper in question,
it was a collection of the paper by.the Fidelity The report of
the master gives a list of the paper so paid, and the dates
of payment. The last statement of account.was forwarded by
the Fidelity on June 11th, and included all items received to
June 8th, inclusive. The first credits not includedin that
statement and remitted for were made June 9th, and other
collections were made on each succeeding day until ,he20th,
the day preceding -the closing of the bank. Th'fe collection
by the correspondent, banks was, a, collection by, the Fidelity
Bank, The collecting bank wasthe agent of -theFidelity, and
not of, the, Commercial. And, therefore, these .payments.are
to be regarded precisely as if on those days these sums had
been paid directly to the Fidelity Bank. They had all been
credited to the Commercial Bank before the -failure, they had
been charged .before -the failure to the corresponding banks,
and credited by the corresponding banks 'to the Fidelity National. No notice of the payment was necessary or usual.
If this paper had been collected by the Fidelity prior to its
failure, and the Fidelity had become the debtor to the Com
mercial for the amount, it is contrary to the intent of the
banking act to pay this one creditor in full, in advance of
other creditors. See Beeves v State Bank of Ohm,8 Ohio St.
465, Hoover v. Wise, 91 U. S. 308, Bank of Crown,_Potnt v.
Bank of Rchmond, 76 Indiana, 561, Buther' & .Drovers'
Bank v Hubbell, 117 N. Y 384.
Admitting that the paper was sent for collection merely,
and that until the collection, was made the relation of principal
and agent existed, that relation did not continue after the
collection of the paper and the credit of the proceeds -in account -on the books of the several parties. Smedes v Utica

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank, 20 Johns. 372, Jockuch v Towsey, 51 Texas, 129;
j.3arnne Bank v Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252, People v.
Rochester City Bank, 93 N. Y 582, Xanne Bank v. Rushmore, 28 -Illinois, 463, Tinkham v Duckworth, 31 Illinois,
519, Panters' Bank v Unton Bank, 16 Wall. 483, _n re
Bank of Xfadison, 5 -Bissell, 515, -fanufacturers' Bank v.
Continental Bank, 148 Mass. 553, Freeman's Bank v. LVat.
Tube TWorks Co., 151 Mass. 413.
MRi. JUSTICE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

We agree with the Circuit Judge that the relation created
between the banks as to uncollected paper was that of principal and agent. and that the mere fact that a subagent of the
Fidelity Bank had collected the money due on such, paper,
was not a mingling of those collections with'the general funds
of the Fidelity, and did not operate to relieve them from the
trust obligation created by the agency of the Fidelity, or
create any difficulty in specifically tracing them. As to such
paper, the transaction may be described thus The plaintiff
handed it to the Fidelity, the Fidelity handed it to a subagent,
the subagent collected it and held the specific money in hand
to be delivered to the Fidelity, then the failure of the Fidelity
came, and the specific money.was handed to its receiver. That
money never became a part of the general funds of the Fidelity, it was not applied by the subagent in reducing the
indebtedness of the Fidelity to it, but it was held as a sum
collected, to be paid over to the Fidelity, or to whomsoever
might be entitled to it.- The Fidelity received the paper as
agent, and the endorsement "for collection" was notice that
its possession was that of agent and not of owner. In Sweeny
v Easter, 1 Wall. 166, 173, in which there was an endorsement "for collection," 2jr. Justice Miller said "The words
'for collection' evidentlv-had a meaning. That meaning was
intended to limit the effect which would have been given to
the endorsement without them, and warned the party that,
contrary to the purpose of a general or blank endorsement,

COMMERCIAL BANK OF PENN. v. ARMSTRONG.

57

Opinion of the Court.

this was not intended to transfer the ownership of the note
or its proceeds!' And in TV7iste v Natwnal Bank, 102 U. S.
658, 661, where the endorsement was "for account," the same
Justice, speaking of the endorsement, said "It does not
purport to transfer the title of the paper, or the ownership
of the money when received." The plaintiff, then, as principal, could unquestionably have controlled the paper at any
time before its payment, and this control extended to such
time as the money was received by its agent, the Fidelity
But c e'es' &c. Bank v Hubbell, 117 N. Y 384, 3 anufaoturer' Bank. v Continental Bank, 1"48 Mass. 553, FEreeman's
Bank v :NZational Tube Works, 151 Mass. 413, A-rmstrong'v.
.Yational Bank of Boyerstown, 14 S. W Rep. 411, (Court of
Appeals of Kentucky), 'Oown Pomnt NYational Bank v Rwhmnond YationaZ Bank, '76 Indiana. 561. In those cases the
suits were against subagent banks. It is true, that in most
of them the collection was made by the subagent 'after the
avowed insolvency of the agent, but that fact, we cannot
think, is ecimsive. If, before the subagent parts with the
money or credits it upon an indebtedness of the agent bank
to it, the insolvency of the latter is disclosed, it ought not to
place the funds which it has collected, and which it knows
belong to a third party, in the hands of that -insolvent agent
or its assignee, and, on the other hand, such insolvent agent
has no equity in claiming that this money, which it has not
yet received, and which belongs to its principal, should be
transferred to and mixed with its general funds in the hands
of its assignee, for the benefit of its general creditors, and to
the exclusion of the principal for whom it was collected.
Whether it be said that such funds are specifically traceable
in the possession of the subagent, or that the agent has never
reduced those funds to possession, or put itself in a position
where it could rightfully claim that it has changed the relation of agent to that of debtor, the result is the same. The
Fidelity received this paper as agent. At the time of its
insolvency, when its right to continue in business ceased, it
had not fully performed its duties as agent and collector, it
had not received the moneys collected by its subagent. They

OCTOBER TERM£, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

were traceable as separate and specific funds, and, therefore,
the plaintiff was entitled to have them paid out of the assets
in the hands of the receiver, for when he collected them from
these subagents he was in fact collecting them as the agent
of the principal. iNo mere book-keeping between the Fidelity
and its subagent could change the actual status of the parties
or destroy rights which arise out of the real facts of the transaction.
We also agree with the Circuit Court, in its conclusions as
to those moneys collected by subagents to whom the Fidelity
was in debt, and which collections had been credited by the
subagents upon the debts of the Fidelity to them, before'its
insolvency wag disclosed, for there the moneys had practically
passed into the hands of the Fidelity, the collection had been
fully completed. It was not a mere matter of book-keeping
between the Fidelity and its ',gents, it was the same as
though the money bad actually reached the vaults of the
Fidelity It was a completed transaction between it and its
subagents, and nothing was left but the settlement between
the Fidelity and' the principal-the plaintiff. The conclusions of the Circuit Court were based, upon the idea that
these collections could not be traced, because they had' passed
into the general fund of the bank. We think, however, a
more satisfactory reason is found in the fact that, by the terms
of the arraigement between the plaintiff and the Fidelity, the
relation of debtor and creditor was created when the collections were fully made. The agreement was to collect at par,
and remit the first, eleventh, and twenty-first of each month.
Collections intermediate those dates were, by the custom of
banks and the evident understanding of the parties, to be
mingled with the general funds of the Fidelity, and used
in its business. The fact that the intervals between the dates
for remitting were brief is immaterial. The principle is the
same as if the Fidelity was to remit only once every six
months. It was the contemplation of the parties, and must
be so adjudged according to the ordinary custom of banking,
bat these collections were not to be placed on special deposit
and held until the day for remitting. The very fact that col-

COMERCIAL BANK OF PENN. -v. ARMSTRONG.

59

Opinion of the Court.

lections were to be made at par 9bows that-the compensation
for-the trouble and expense of collection, was understood to be
the temporary deposit of the funds thus collected; and the
temporary use thereof by the Fidelity The case of Martne
Bank v Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252, is in point, though it may
be conceded that the facts in that, tending to show the relation of debtor 'and creditor, are more significant than those
here. In the spring of 1861, the Fulton Bank of New York
sent two notes for collection to the Marine Bank of Chicago,
there being some trouble about currency, the Fulton Bank
requested the Marine Bank to hold the avails of the collection
subject to order, and advise amount credited. Afterwards the
Marine Bank sought to pay in the currency which it had
received on the collection, then largely depreciated, but its
claim in this respect was denied, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking
'for the court, saying "'The truth undoubtedly is,
that both parties understood that, when the money was collected, plaintiff was to have credit with the defendant for the
amount of the collection, and that defendant would use the
money in its business. Thus the defendant was guilty of no
wrong, in using the money, because it had become its- own.
It was used by the bank in the same manner that it used -the
-money deposited with it that day by city customers, and the
relation between the two banks was the same as that between
the Chicago bank and its city depositors. It would be a waste
of argument to attempt to prove that this was a debtor and
creditor relation. All deposits made with bankers may be
divided into two classes, namely, those in which the bank
becomes bailee of the depositor, the- title to the thing deposited remaining with the latter, and that other kind of deposit
of money peculiar to banking business, in which the depositor,
for his own convenience, parts with the title to his money,
and loans it to the banker, and the latter, in consideration of
the loan of the money and the right to use it for his own
profit, agrees to refund the same amount, or any part thereof,
on demand. The case before us is not of the former class.
It must be of the latter."
That reasoning is applicable here. Bearing in mind the

