HUME v. BOWIE.
Statement of the Case.

IIUME v. BOWIE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 1107. Submitted February 6,1893. -Decided March 20, 1893.

When the parties to a suit tried in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, at circuit, cannot agree as to the exceptions, the trial term
may, under the rules, be extended into the succeeding term fbr the purpose of settling them, and in case the judge presiding at the trial dies
without settling them, and in consequence thereof a motion be made to
set aside the verdict and order a new trial, the then presiding judge in
the Circuit Court may order the motion to be heard in General Term;
and an order to set aside the verdict and direct a new trial made in General Term is not a final judgment from which an appeal may be taken to
this court.

Tis was an action brought by William B. Bowie in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against Frank
Hume as indorser upon a promissory note. The defendant
pleaded to the declaration, issue was joined, and on the trial
of the cause a verdict was rendered May 25, 1888, in favor
of the defendant. During the trial various exceptions were
reserved to the rulings and instructions of the court, which
were duly noted at the time by the presiding justice upon his
minutes. A motion for a new trial was made and overruled
June 2,1888, and an appeal to the general term was thereupon
taken, and a bond on appeal duly executed and approved.
The record discloses that on January 3, 1888, the court in
general term entered an order directing that, in addition to
the Circuit Court to be held -by Mr. Justice Hagner on the
fourth Monday of January, 1888, a second Circuit Court
should be held- at the same time by Mr. Justice Merrick, the.
court to be held by Mr. Justice Hagner to be known as division
number one, and the court to be held by Mr. Justice Merrick
to be known as division number two. On April 27, 1888, the
court in general term ordered that the Circuit Oourts then
being held in divisions numberq one and two should be continued.further by the same justices through the May term

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

thereof. This case was tried in the Circuit Court, division
number two, by Mr. Justice Merrick, verdict returned May
25, motion for new trial overruled June 2, appeal prayed
June 5, bond approved June 12. On July 14, 1888, an order
was entered by that justice providing that "the May term of
the Circuit Court, division number two, ishereby entered as
extended that the bills of exceptions not yet filed may be settled, to wit "(Here follow names of cases, including this case.)
On the same day, in division number one, the court ordered
"the term of this court extended for the purpose of settling
bills of exceptions and case in the following cases (Cases
named), and thereupon the May term adjourned without day
except as above stated."
On January 24, 1889, an order was entered by the general
term assigning the justices to serve for the year 1889, as
follows "First, for the General Term, Justices Hagner, James,
and Merrick, second, for the Circuit Court, Chief Justice
Bingham, third, for the Equity Court and Orphans' Court,
Justice Cox, fourth, for the District Court, Justice James,
fifth, for the Criminal Court, Justice Montgomery"
April 8, 1889,.the 0eath of William B. Bowie was suggested,
and Anne H. Bowie, executrix, was substituted as party plaintiff, and, on April 23, she filed her motion to set aside the
verdict and judgment and to grant a new trial, "because
the bill of exceptions containing the exceptions reserved on
the trial of the cause cannot be settled, signed and sealed as
required by law, the justice of this court, who presided at the
trial of this cause, (in division No.2, May term, 1888, of this
court.) having departed this life without having settled or
sganed and sealed the same."
Due notice of this motion was given and it was finally called
up on June 8, 1889, before Chief Justice Bingham, holding
a special term and Circuit Court, and "at the request of both
parties by their respective attorneys was directed to be heard
in the general term in the first instance." Subsequently the
death of Az.e H. Bowie was suggested and Richard Irving
Bowie as administrator do bonw non, with the will annexed,
substituted.

HUME v. 'BOWIE.
Statement of the Case.

The motion in question was heard upon certain certificates
and affidavits, which are set forth in a bill of exceptions
taken upon the disposition of the motion. It appeared that
the bill of exceptions preserved oil the trial was prepared by
counsel for plaintiff and submitted to counsel for defendant,
but that they could not settle it by agreement, and that before
itwas considered by the justice who presided at the trial, the
latter became ill, and, afterwards, on February 6, 1889, died,
leaving it unsettled.
On April 26, 1892, the motion was sustained by the general
term, the judgment and verdict set aside, and a new trial
granted. From this order a writ of error was sued out.
The following are sections of the Revised Statutes of the
District of Columbia
"SEc. 770. The supreme court, in general term, shall adopt
such rules as it may think proper to regulate the time and
manner of making appeals from the special term to the
general term; and may prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which such appeals may be made, and may also establish
suqh other rules as it may deem necessary for regulating the
practice of the couit, and from time to time revise and alter
such rules. It may also determine by rule what motions shall
be heard at a special term, as non-enumerated motions, and
what motions shall be heard at a general term in the first
instance."
"SEc. 803. If upon the trial of a cause, an exception be
taken, it may be Teduced to writing at the time, or it may be
entered on the minutes of the justice, and afterward settled
in such manner as may be provided *by the rules of the court
and then stated in writing in a case or bill of exceptions, with
so much of the evidence as may be material to the questrons
to be raised, but such case or bill of exceptions need not be
sealed or signed.
"SEc. 804. The justice who tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, to be made on his minutes, to set
aside a verdict and grant a new trial upon exceptions, or for
insufficient evidence, or for excessive damages, but such motion
shall be made at the same term at which the trial was had.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"SEC. 805. When such motion ismade and heard upon the
minutes, an appeal to the general term may be taken from
the decision, in which case a bill of exceptions or case shall be
settled in the usual manner.
"SEC. 806. A motion for a new trial on a case or bill of
exceptions, and an application for judgment on a special
verdict or a verdicr taken subject to the opinion of the court,
shall be heard in the first instance at a general term."
Among the rules of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia are these
"2. The terms of the court sbiall be as follows Of the
General Term on the 4th Monday of January, 4th Monday of
April, 1st Monday of October. Of the Circuit Court on the
4th Monday of January, 2nd Monday of May, which term
shall not continue beyond the 2nd Saturday in July, except to
finish a pending trial, 3d Monday of October. Of the District Court on the 1st Monday of June, 1st Monday of
December. Of the Criminal Court on the 1st Monday of
March, 3d Monday of June, 1st Monday of December.
Of the special terms on the first Tuesday of every month,
except August, in which month there shall be no term of
court."
"514. Motions for new trial may be grounded on errors of
law in the rulings of the justice presiding at the trial.
"1. The motion may be made upon the bills of exception,
in which case it must be filed in the Circuit Court, but shall
b'e heard in the General Term in the first instance.
" . The justice who tried the cause may, in his discretion,
before any bills of exceptions are prepared, entertain a motion
to set aside the verdict for errors of law founded on the exceptions reserved during the trial and noted on his minutes. An
appeal may be taken from the decision of the justice on such
motion, in which case a bill of exceptions must be settled in
the usual manner." \
"61. If a party desires to present for review in the General
Term the rulings or instructions of the presiding justice for
alleged errors of law, he must at the trial and before verdict
except to such rulings or instructions, and he may at the time

HUME v. BOWIE.
Argument against the Motion.

of taking exception reduce the same to writing in a formal bill
of exceptions, or the justice may enter the exception upon his
minutes and proceed with the trial and afterwards gett the
bill of exceptions.
"62. The bill of exceptions must be settled before the close
of the term, which may be prolonged by adjournment in order
to prepare it.
"63. Every bill of exceptions shall be drawn up by 'the
counsel of the party tendering it and submitted to the counsel on the other side-, and where the bill of exceptions is not
settled before the jury retires, the counsel tendering the bill of
exceptions shall give notice in writing to the counsel on the
other side of the time at which it is proposed that the bill of
exceptions shall be settled, and shall also, at least three days,
Sundays exclusive, before the time designated on such notice,
submit to the counsel on the other side the bill of exceptions
so proposed to be settled, and if they cannot agree it shall besettled by the justice who presided at the trial, and in that
case the justice shall be attended by the counsel on both sides,
as he may direct.
"64. In case the judge is unable to settle the bill of exceptions and counsel cannot settle it by agreement a new- trial
shall be granted."
A motion was made to dismiss the writ of error on the
ground that the judgment brought here by the -writ of error
was not a final judgment.
.'

Enoch Totten for the motion.

Xir W7alter _D Davzdge and .AXr S. T Thomas opposing.
The motion to dismiss raises two questions First, whether
the court had jurisdiction, on motion after the term, to vacate
the judgment. Second, if it had not, whether the judgment
vacating the former judgment is a final judgment?
The case of Phillips v 2legley, 117 U. S. 665, decided in
1885, is absolutely decisive as to both these questions. There
a judgment recovered in the court below was, after the term,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument against the Motion.

vacated, and a new trial granted at special term, on motion
alleging fraud, -deceit, surprise and irregularity
The court in general term having ruled that the court in
special term had jurisdiction to grant the motion in its discretion, the judgment of the court in general term was brought
here by writ of error.
It was insisted in argument here that the court below had
jurisdiction to vacate the judgment, and also that its judgment, as it vacated the former judgment for the purpose of s
new trial, was not a final judgment. Thus both the questions
involved in this case were directly presented and necessarily
passed upon i Phillps v. -Negley.
The judgment of this court reversed the judgment below
and remanded the cause with directions to dism?,ss the motion
wzthout .prejudiceto the nght to file a bill =i eymity.
It is argued inthe brief in behalf of the defendant in error
that the-judgment or order vacating the former judgment is
not final, because it does not dispose of the cause but directs
a new trial, and many decisions of this court are cited. The
form of the judgment is precisely the same as in Phillipsv
-Negley. The decisions referred to- and many others could
be cited-relate to new trials or other further proceedings
here in the progress of a cause, and, as said by Mr. Justice
Matthews, "in the exercise of acknowledged jurisdiction."
The present case belongs to an entirely different class,
where the judgment brought here for review is without
jurisdiction.
The error of defendant's counsel consists in confounding
two distinct and independent things, the proceeding in which
the original judgment was rendered, and a'new proceeding to
vacate that judgment, instituted not by motion during the
term, but after the term and when all jurisdiction over the
judgment had ceased.
In such new proceedings without jurisdiction, whatever its
formi the judgment is necessarily final. As said by Mr. Justice Miller in Bronson v. Shuten, 104 UT. S. 410, 417 "The
question relates to the _power of the courts and not to the
mode of procedure. It is whether there exists .m the court

HUME v. BOWIE.
Argument against the Motion.

the authority to set aside, vacate, and modify its final judgments after the term at which they were rendered."
The new proceeding, whatever the mode of procedure,
whether by motion after the term when that is allowed by
statute, or by bill in equity, is for an essentially different
purpose from the proceeding in which the original judgment
was rendered. It is, indeed, a new cause and the judgment or
decree is an end of that cause. Marne Ins. Co. v Hodgson,
70 ranch, 332, Gmm v HBandley, 94 U. S. 652, .0Kibe v
Benson, 17 Wall. 624, Embry v Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, Cragm,
v. Lovell, 109 U S. 191, Phillips v Yegley, 1.17 U. S. 665.
In the argument below it was insisted that the May term,
1888, was still subsisting when, on the 23d of April, 1889, the
motion was made. It is proper briefly to notice this point.
Rule 2, fixing the terms of the circuit, provides that the May
term shall not continue beyond the second Saturday in July,
except to finish a,pending trial. iRule 62 declares that the
bill of exceptions must be settled during the term, which may
be prolonged in order to prepare it. Taking the two rules
together it must be evident that, the former having fixed a
limit, beyond which the May term should not continue, the
latter created an exception for the sole purpose of settling
bills of exception. Hence, when the second Saturday in July
arrived, there being bills of exceptions in a number of causes
unsettled, Mr. Justice Merrick passed an order extending the
term beyond the limit fixed by Rule 2 for the special purpose
of settling them.
This order shows on its face. what was intended that the
term was to be "extended," or, in the words of Rule 62,
"prolonged" for the special purpose of settling exceptions,
instead of ending as provided by IRule 2. Such an order
merely "extended" or "prolonged" the current term until
it should be. adjourned by judicial act or expire by efflux of
time. It did not invest the term with the quality of immortality, and enable it to "run on forever." It was not until
after the May term had ended by operation of law, and after
the ensuing October term had intervened, and after the January term, 1889, had progressed to well-nigh its close, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

motion to vacate was filed. Neither during the May term
after the above order, nor the October term, nor the January
term until the motion was filed, was there any order of the
court or motion or other act whatsoever in relation to the
exceptions in this case.
The record shows on its face that the motion to vacate was
made at the January term, 1889, held by Mr. Chief Justice
Bingbam, and was by him certified to the general term for
hearing in the first instance. If the May term still had existence nobody held it or professed to hold it, and certainly the
motion was made in fact at a subsequent term and to a judge
whose authority was confined exclusively to such subsequent
term and who assumed jurisdiction as holding such term.
The exceptions taken at the trial were by the terms of the
statute to be heard in the first instance in general term. Of
course they could also be considered under the motion for a
new trial addressed to the discretion of the judge who tried
the cause, and they, with the other ground assigned, were so
considered and overruled and an appeal taken and perfected.
Thus all matters of law and fact in impeachment of the judgment were pending in the general term, and the judge holding the circuit and special term had no jurisdiction to entertain
the motion to vacate.
Mn. CHIEF JusiwE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court

This case comes before as on a motion to dismiss the writ
of error for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that the
judgment brought here by the writ is not a final judgment.
Baker v. Whtde, 92 U. S. 176, 1?we v Sanger, 144 U S. 197,
Brown v Baaxter, 146 U S. 619. The question involved is
one of power, for if the court had power to make the order,
when it was made, then it was not a final judgment, as it
merely vacated the former judgment for the purpose of a new
trial upon the merits of the original action. If the court had
no jurisdiction over that judgment, the order would be an
order in a new proceeding, and in that view final and reviewable.

.HUME v. BOWIE.
Opinion of the Court,

The rule is unquestionably correctly -aid down in XiMer v
E7ders, 91 U. S. 249, that when judgment has been rendered,
and the term expires, a bill of exceptions cannot, be allowed,
signed and filed as of the date of the trial, in the absence of
any special circumstances in the case, and without the consent
of parties or any previous order of court. But it is always
allowable, if the exceptions be seasonably taken and reserved,
that they may be drawn out and signed by the judge afterwards, and the time within which this may be done must
depend upon the rules and practice of the court and the judicial discretion of the presiding judge. Dredge v Forsyth, 2
Black, 563, Cliateaugayh'on, Co., Petitioner,128 U. S. 544.
The Supreme Court of the District had power to 'rescribe rules upon 'the subject, and had done so. Under
those rules, whenever the judge was unable to settle the bill
of exceptions, and counsel could not settle it by agreement,
a new trial followed as matter of course. If, thetefore, in
this case, the bill of exceptions was open to be settled at the
time of the granting of the new trial, the power to grant the
latter existed. If the bill were settled, the court in general
term could hear the case, and if reversible error were found,
could set aside the judgment, and if the bill could not be
be settled, the judgment was necessarily so far sn Aferz as to
be susceptible of being vacated under the rule. Ordinarily
where a party, without laches on his part, loses the benefit of
his exceptions through the death or illness of the judge, a new
trial will be granted. N F Lsf-e &,'.Fire ins. Co. v Wilson,
8 Pet. 291, 303, Borrowscale v. Bosworth, 98 Mass. 34, 37,
Wrzght v The Tudge of the Detroit Supertor Court, 41 Michigan, 726, State-v. TVetskittle, 61 Maryland, 48, Benett\'V.,
P c 0 Stgeamshtp Co., 16 0. B. 29, _N'ewton v. Boodle, 30 .
795, .rinhd v Arthur, 7 Dowl. & Lowndes, 252. And heA
the rule isso prescribed.
The rules.also provided that the terms of court might be
prolonged by adjournment for the purpose of settling bills of
exceptions, and an order was accordingly entered prolonging
the term at which this judgment was rendered, for the
purpose of doing that in this case. This was equivalent to

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the practice in many jurisdictions of entering an order granting additional time, after the expiration of the term, in which
to settle such bills. The provision as to the prolongation
of the term for the particular purpose is a mere difference in
phraseology and not of the substance, and the question as to
the close of the term in other respects is quite immaterial.
It is argued that, as iRule 2, fixing the terms of the Circuit
Court, provides that the May term shall not continue beyond
the second Saturday in July, except to finish a pending trial,
the order extending the term under Rule 62, for the special
purpose of settling bills of exceptions, beyond the limit fixed
by Rule 2, could not extend such term beyond the commencement of the succeeding term, which was in this instance the
third Monday of October, 1888. The May term, it is said,
must necessarily have come to an end, either by the act of the
justice who held it, or by operation of law through the efflux
of time and the commencement of
- :cceeding term. But
we are of opinion that under these rules the term may be
continued indefinitely by order of court, so far as the settlement of bills of exceptions is concerned, and concur in the
views of the Supreme Court of the District expressed in Jones
v Pennsylvanta,Railroad, 18 Dist. Col. 426, where it was
held that Rule 62 was valid, and that while it would be more
proper to specify the time to which the term might be
extended under the provisions of that rule, yet an omission
to do so did not invalidate the order.
It is to be remembered that the Supreme Court of the
District sitting at special term and the Supreme Court sitting
in general term is still the Supreme Court, that the judgment
of the general term setting aside a verdict and judgment at
law, and ordering a ,new trial, is equivalent to remanding the
cause to the special term for a new trial, that an appeal from
the special to.the general term is simply a step in the progress
of the cause during its -pendency in the court, and that,
though the judges may differ, the tribunal remains the same.
-Metropolitan Railroad v. Moore, 121 U. S. 558, 573, Ormsby
v. WTrebb, 134 U. S. 47, 62. Some other judge must act on a.
.motion for new trial by reason of inability created by death,

