OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

thing about the alleged sale by her husband as her attorneyin-fact. The acquiescence and agreement on the part of Mrs.
lammekin formed an issue in the case.
It is contended on the part of the defendant, that there was
no question of title in the case, and that the sole question was
one of boundary, also, that the question being whether the
south boundary of the 6000-acre tract was changed from that
called for in the original deed from the Hammekins to Cabellero by their request and authority and ratification, the power
of attorney from Mrs. Hammekin to her husband, and their
deed, were admissible to show that they and Cabellero had
not changed the line, that the instruments were not offered
or admitted to prove title, and that the above authorities do
not apply to a question which is not one of title. But we
have remarked sufficiently on this subject. The petition demands judgment for the land and the notice on it says that
the action is brought to try title.
The record is very meagre, but we have arrived at a satisfactory conclusion on the case as presented.
The, udgment of the Circuit Court ts reversed, and the case
m remanded to that court wdth a direction to grant a new
trial.

SMITH v. WHITMAN SADDLE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 188. Argued and submitted March 28, 1893.-Decided April 17, 1893.

Where a new and original shape or configuration of an article of manufacture is claimed in a patent issued under Rev. Stat. ยง 4929, its utility is an
element for consideration in deternining the validity of the patent. Gorham Manufacturing Co. v. White, 14 Wall. 511, distinguished.

The test of identity of design in the invention covered by such a patent is
the sameness of appearance to the eye of an ordinary observer.
The saddle, the design for which is protected by letters patent No. 10,844,
issued September 24, 1878, to Royal E. Whitman for an improved design
for saddles, was made by taking the front half of a saddle previously

SMITH v. WHITMAN SADDLE COMPANY.

675

Statement of the Case.
known as the Granger tree, and the rear half of a saddle known as the
Jenifer or Jenifer-McClellan -saddle, changing the Granger tree part so
as to have a perpendicular drop of some inches at the rear of the pommel.
In view of this previous condition of the art, the new and material thing
protected by those letters patent was the sharp drop of the pommel at
the rear, and they were not infringed by the saddles constructed by the
plaintiffs in error.

THE Whitman Saddle Company, a corporation organized
and existing under and by 'virtue of the laws of the State of
New York, brought this bill of complaint in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Connecticut, against
Charles D. Smith and Benjann A. Bourn, citizens of the
State of Connecticut, and doing business m the city of Hartford, under the firm name and style of Smith, Bourn & Co.,
for the alleged ifrmgement of a patent for a "design for
saddles," No. 10,844, dated September 21, 1878.
The Circuit Court sustained the patent, adjudged that complainant was entitled to recover of the defendants as infringers, and rendered a decree perpetually enjoining them,
and for an amount found due for profits, costs, charges and
disbursements, from whnch decree an appeal was taken to
this court. The opinion of Judge Shipman is reported in 38
Fed. Rep. 414.
The specification and claim are as follows
"Be it known that I, lRoyal E. Whitman, of Springfield,
Hampden County, State of M assachusetts, have invented an
improved design for saddles, of which the following is a
specification
"The nature of my design is fully illustrated in the accompanying photographic picture, to winch reference is made.
"Figure 1 is a side profile view, and Fig. S a partial front
view
"The pommel B rises at the fork to a point on, or nearly
on, a horizontal level with the raised and prolonged cantle.
The pommel on its rear side falls nearly perpendicularly for
some inches, when it is joined by the line forming the profile
of the seat. The straight inner side of the pommel (marked
b) is joined at c by the line C of the seat. The line C de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

scribes a gradual curve to the centre of the seat, from thence
gradually rising to the highest point of the cantle D. The
cantle is defined in side profile by the lines ef, starting from
its outer end in continuous curves, which separate to define
the thickness of the cantle before uniting at a point g, near
the centre of the saddle, the line f forming the outside and
rear edge of the saddle until joined by the line A,which, leavmg the line f at an angle, bends to form the rear bearing of
the saddle. The line from the front of the pommel B inclines
outward for some distance in a nearly straight line, m, before
being rounded toward the rear to join the line A,at the point
where the stirrup-strap is attached, to thus define the bottom
line of the saddle, the outline given by line m from the pommel being the general form of the English saddle-tree known
as the ' cut-back.'
" A plan view of the saddle shows a centre longitudinal
slot extending from pommel to cantle.
"I am aware that portions of the curves employed by me
have been used in the designing of saddles, but, when combined with a longitudinally-slotted tree, the lines I employ to
give the profile form a new design for saddles,, and giving the
general idea m the front, lower and rear lines of a sea-fowl
or vessel modelled upon the same curves, and by these curves
and lines giving the impression of lightness, grace and comfort that could not as well be conveyed by any others, as the
impression of comfort is given by the large amount of bearingsurface obtained without undue elevation above the back of
the ammal, combined with the large seat for the rider, and
:ightness and grace by the small surface of tree shown in
vertical plan, coupied 'with the form in which it is presented.
"Now, haviAg described my invention, what I claim is "The design for a riding saddle, substantially as shown and
described."
The following is the picture referred to

SMITH v. WHITMAN SADDLE COMPANY.
Opinion of.the Court.

-Up

TV F.

1

imonds for appellant.

X2, SamueZ A. Duncan for appellee submitted on his brief.
MR. GOIEF JusrIcE FuLL.R, after stating the case, delivered

the. opinion of the court
Section 4929 of the Revised Statutes provides that "Any
person who, by his own industry, genius, efforts and expense,
has invented and produced any new and original design for a
manufacture, bust, statue, alto-relievo or bas-relief, any new
and original design for the printing of woollen, silk, cotton or
other fabrics, any new and original impression, ornament,
pattern, print or picture to be printed, painted, cast or otherwise placed on or worked into any article of manufacture, or
any new, useful and original shape or configuration of any
article of manufacture, the same not having been known or
used by others before his invention or production thereof, or
patented or described in any printed publication, may, upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

payment of the fee prescribed and other due proceedings had,
the same as in cases of inventions or discoveries, obtain a
patent therefor."
The first three of these classes plainly refer to ornament, or
to ornament and utility, and the last to new shapes or forms
of manufactured articles; and it is under the latter clause that
this patent was granted.
In Gorhamb 2fanufaturng Co. v TV7bde, 14 Wall. 511, 524,
it was said- by this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Strong,
that the acts of Congress authorizing the granting of patents
for designs contemplated "not so much utility as appearance,
and that, not an abstract impression, or picture, but an aspect
given to those objects mentioned in the acts.
And
the thing invented or produced, for which a patent is
given, is that which gives a peculiar or distinctive appearance
to the manufacture, or article to which it may be apilied, or
to which it gives form. The law manifestly contemplates
that giving certain new and original appearances to a manufactured article may enhance its salable value, may enlarge
the demand for it, and may be a meritorious service to the
public. It, therefore, proposes to secure for a limited tune to
the ingemous producer of those appearances the advantages
flowing from them. M\anifestly the mode m whlh those
appearances are produced has very little, if anything, to do
with giving increased salableness to the article. It is the
appearance itself which attracts attention and"calls out favor
or dislike. It is the appearance itself, therefore, no matter
by what agency caused, that constitutes mainly, .if not
entirely, the contribution to the public which the law
deems worthy of recompense." This language was used in
reference to ornamentation merely, and moreover the word
"useful," which is in section 4929,. was not contained in
the act of 1842, under which the patent in Gorham Co. v
White, was granted. So that now where a new and original
shape or configuration of an article of manufacture is claimed,
its utility may be also an element for consideration. Lehneuter v ZZo1thaus, 105 U. S. 94.

SMITH v. WHITMAU

SADDLE COMPANY.

679

Opinion of the Court.

But as remarked by Mr. Justice Brown, then District Judge
for the Eastern District of Mlichigan, in .. orth'zp v. Adams,
12 0. G. 430, and 2 Bann. & Ard. 567, 568, Which was a bill
for the infringement of a design patent for a cheese safe, the
law applicable to design patents "does not materially differ
from that in cases of mechamcal patents, and ' all the regulations and provisions which apply to the obtaimng or protecshall
tion of patents for inventions or discoveries
And he added
apply to patents for designs.' (Sec. 4933.)"
"To entile a party to the beneIt of the act, in either case,
there must be originality, and the exercise of the inventive
faculty In the one, there must be novelty and utility, in the
other, originality and beauty Mere mechanical sdll is insufficient. There must be something aki to genius - an
effort of the brain as well as the hand. The adaptation of old
devices or forms to new purposes, however convenient, useful
or beautiful they may be in their new role, is not invention."
M any illustrations are referred to, as, for instance, the use of
a model of the Centennial Building for paper weights and ink
stands, the thrusting of a gas-pipe through the leg and arm
of the statue of a shepherd boy, for the purpose of a drop
light, the painting upon a familiar vase of a copy of Stuart's
portrait of Washington - none of which were patentable,
because the elements of the combination were old. The
shape produced must be the result of industry, effort, genius
or expense, and new and original as applied to articles of
manufacture. -Foster v. Crosszm, 44 Fed. Rep. 62. The exercise of the inventive or originative faculty is required, and
a person cannot be permitted to select an existing form and
simply put it to a new use any more -than he can be permitted
to take a patent for the mere double use of a machine. If,
however, the selection and adaptation of an existing form is
more than the exercise of the imitative faculty and the result
is in effect a new creation, the d..sign may be patentable.
In Jemnnngs v Kibbe, 10 Fed. Rep. 669, and 20 Blatchford,
353, Mr. Justice Blatehford, when Circuit Judge, applied the
rule laid down in Gorham, _Manufacturzng Co. v. White, supra,
stating it thus, that "the true test of identity of design is

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

sameness of appearance, -in other words, sameness of effect
upon the eye, that it is not necessary that the appearance
should be the same to the eye of an expert, and that the test
is the eye of an ordinary observer, the eyes of men generally,
of observers of ordinary acuteness, bringing to the examination of the article upon which the design has been placed that
degree of observation which men of ordinary intelligence
give." .Rpley v Elson Glass Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 927.
In this case it appeared from the evidence that among other
trees and saddles that were old in the prior art was one called
the Granger tree, which had a cut-back pommel and a low,
broad cantle, and was well known, and another called the
Jenifer tree or Jenifer-McOlellan saddle, which was also well
known, and had a high, prominent pommel and a high-backed
cantle, or hind protuberance, in the shape of a duck's tail.
The exhibits embrace, among others, a slotted Granger
saddle, the Jenifer-M cOlellan, the Sullivan-Black-Granger
tree, and the saddle sold by the defendants, the latter being
substantially the Granger saddle with the Jenifer cantle.
The saddle design described in the specification differs
from the Granger saddle in the substitution of the Jenifer
cantle for the low, broad cantle of the Granger tree. In
other words, the front half of the Granger and the rear half
of the Jenifer, or Jenifer-McOlellan, make up the saddle in
question, though it differs also from the Granger saddle in
that it has a nearly perpendicular drop of some inches at the
rear of the pommel, that is, distinctly more of a drop than
the Granger saddle had.
The experienced judge by whom this case was decided conceded that the design of the patent in question did show
prominent features of the Granger and Jenifer saddles, and
united two halves of old trees, bat he said. "A mechanic
may take tne legs of one stove, and the cap of another, and
the door of another, and make a new design which has no
element of invention, but it does not follow that the result of
the thought of a mechanic who has fused together two diverse
shapes, which were made upon different principles, so that
new lines and curves and a harmonious and novel whole are

SMITH v. WHITMAN SADDLE COMPANY.

681

Opinion of the Court.

produced, which possesses a new grace and which has a utility
resultant from the new shape, exhibits no invention." And
he held that this was effected by the patentee and that the
shape that he produced was, therefore, patentable. 'Butwe
cannot concur in this view
The evidence established that there were several hundred
styles of saddles or saddle-trees belonging to the prior art,
and that it was customary for saddlers to vary the shape and
appearance of saddle-trees in numerous ways according to the
taste and fancy of the purchaser. And there was evidence
tending to show that the Granger tree was sometimes made
up with an open slot and sometimes without, and sometimes
with the slot covered and padded at the top and sometimes
covered with plain leather, while it clearly appeared that the
Jenifer cantle was used upon a variety of saddles, as was the
open slot. Nothing more was done in this instance (except as
hereafter noted) than to put the two halves of these saddles
together in the exercise of the ordinary skill of workmen of
the trade, and in the way and manner ordinarily done. The
presence or the absence of the central open slot was not
material, and we do not think that the addition of a known
cantle to a known saddle, in view of the fact that such use of
the cantle was common, in itself involved gemus or invention,
or produced a patentable design. There was, however, a difference between the pommel of this saddle and the pommel of
the Granger saddle, namely, the drop at the rear of the pommel, which is thus described in the specification. "The
pommel, on its rear side, falls nearly perpendicularly for
some inches, when it is joined by the line forming the
profile of the seat. The straight inner side of the pommel
(marked b) is joined at c by the line 0 of the seat." The
specification further states "The line from the front of 'the
pommel B inclines outward for some distance in a nearly
straight line, m, before being rounded toward the rear to join
the line A, at the point where the stirrup-strap is attached, to
thus define the bottom line of the saddle, the outline given by
line m from the pommel being the general form of the English
saddle-tree known as the ' cut-back.'"

