OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
, Syllabus.

rately known before, was invention sufficient to form the basis
of a patent."
Consolidated Valve Co. v Crosby Valve Co., 113 U. t. 157,
.agowan v NT ew York Belfng Co., 141 U. S. 332, Barbed
Wire Patent,143 U. S. 275, Gandy v Xaqn Belttg Co., 143
U.,S. 587, are all to the same effect.
In the very recent case of Topolif v Toplif, 145 U. S. 156
163, 164, where there was a contest between two patents, with
but a slight difference between them, the court said
Trifling as this deviation seems to be, it renders it possible to adapt the Augur device to any side-spring wagon of
ordinary construction. While the question of patentable
novelty in this device is by no means free from doubt, we are
inclined, in view of the extensive use to which these springs
have been put by manufacturers of wagons, to resolve that
doubt in favor of the patentee and sustain the patent." We
think, therefore, we are within the principle and reasoning of
these cases in reversing the decree of the court below dismissing the bill and in remanding the record, with directions to
proceed in the case in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. UN ION PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE COiMOUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 149. .4rgued March 20, 21, 1893.-

Decided April 10, 1893.

The right conferred by the act-of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120, as sub.sequently amended, upon the corporation afterwards known as the Union
Paciftc Railway Company, Eastern Division, to construct its road substantially in a direct line to Denver, and from thence northerly, to connect with the Union Pacific Railroad at Cheyenne, and t0 acquire a grant
of public lands thereby upon each side of its railroad as constructed, was
not affected by the act of March 3, 1869,15 Stat. 324, c. 127, in such a way
as to make the UmnQn Pacific. Eastern Division, terminate at Denver, and

UNITED STATES v. JUNION PACIFIC RAILWAY. 563
Statement .of the Case.
to cause its land grants to terminate there; but, on the contrary, the act
of 1862, being a grant %nprcesenti, the Company's right to lands upon
each side of -its road became fixed from the moment it proceeded, under
the act of 1866i to establish its-line of. definite location so.as to make the
same extend front Kansas City westwardly to Denver, and thence northwardly to Cheyenne, and the act of 1869 is not to be construed as breaking the continuity of the line.
Tf there were any doubt with regard to the interpretation of the act of 1869,
the construction placed upon it by the Land Department for eighteen
years, uneer which lands have been put upon the market and sold, would
be entitled to considerable weight.

Tnis case arose upon demurrers and a plea to a bill in equity
filed by the United States against the ' Union Pacfic Railway
Company, and173 other corporations and individuals, to procure the surrender and cancellation of certain "land patents
issued to the Kansas Pacific Railway and the Denver Pacific
Railway and Telegraph Company, and for a decree declaring
all conveyances of such lands clouds upon the title of the
United States.
The bill averred in substance tha, by an act of Congress of
July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, 1. 120, incorpoiating the 'Umon
Pacific Railroad Company, such company wag authorized to
construct a road from a point on the one hundredth meridian
longitude, between the south margin of the valley' of the
Republican River and the north margin of the valley of the
Platte River, in the Territory of Nebraska, to the western
boundary of Nevada, and was granted every odd-numbered
section of land amounting tofive alternate sections of land per
mile, afterwards extended to ten sections by the act of JIly 2,
1861, 13 Stat. 356, c. 216, on each side of said railroad, on the
linethereof, and within the limits of ten miles, (subsequently
increased to twenty,) on each side of the roid, aud'that whenever the company should have completed forty consecutive
miles of its road, (afterwards reduced to twenty, by the same
act of 1864,) patents should issue for such publi6 lands as had
been granted to it, and had *been earned in accordance with
the provisions of the act.
By the same act it was further provided that the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company, which had

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

been chartered by the Territory of Kansas, in 1855, was authorized to construct a line of road from the Missouri River, at
the mouth of the Kansas River, to the aforesaid pcint, on the
one hundredth meridian. The corporate name of the said
Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company of
Kansas was, subsequently to the passage of this act, changed
to that of the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division.

On July 3, 1866, Congress passed another act, 14 Stat. 79, c.
159, amending those of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864, and
providing that the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern
Division, should be authorized to so change the line of its definite location as to connect with the Union Pacific Railroad at
a point not more than fifty miles westward from the meridian
of Denver in Colorado.
The bill further averred that after the passage of this act of
July 3, 1866, the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern
Division, so changed its line of definite location as to make
the same extend from its point of beginning at Kansas City,
Mis~ouri, westward, and substantially in a direct line to the
city of Denver, Colorado, and from that point northward and
substantially in a direct line to a connection with the Union
Pacific Railroad at Cheyenne, Wyoming, and proceeded to
build its road on that line towards Denver.
Before the Union Pacific had completed its line to Denver,
and on March 3, 1869, Congress passed another act, 15 Stat.
32-, c. 127, authorizing the Union Pacific, Railway Company,
Eastern Division, to contract With the Denver Pacific Railway
and Telegraph Company, a Colorado corporation, for the construction, operation and maintenance of thai part of its line of
railroad and telegraph between Denver and its point, of connection with the Union Pacific Railroad at Cheyenne, and to
adopt the road-bed already graded by the said Denver Pacific
Railway and Telegraph Company as said line, and to grant to
said Denver 'f'acific Railway and Telegraph Company the perpetual use of its right of way and depot grounds. and to transfer to it all its..rights and privileges subject to all the obligations pertaining to said.part of its line. It was also made the

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY. 565
Statement of the Case.

duty of such road to extend its railroad and telegrapn to a
connection at the c'ty of Denver, so as to form with that part
of its line herein authorized to be constructed a continuous
line of railroad and telegraph from Kansat City, by way of
Denver, to Cheyenne. It was further declared, section 2, that
"all the provisions of law for the operation of the Union
Pacific Railroad, its branches and connections, as a continuous
line, without discrimination, shall apply the same way as if the
road from Denver to Cheyenne had been constructed by the
said Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division." It
was further provided that each of. said companies should
receive patents to alternate sections of land along.their respective lines of road, as therein defined, in like manner and
within the same limits as provided by law in the case of lands
granted to the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern
Division. Upon the same day, a joint resolution was passed,
15 Stat. 318, authorizing the Union Pacific Railway Company,
Eastern Division, to change its name ,to the Kansas Pacific
Railway Company
In pursuance of these acts the new Kansas Pacific Railway
Company entered into a contract with the Denver Pacific of
the nature and for the purpose set out and authorized by the
acts, and, in pursuance thereof, the Kansas Pacific completed
its line to Denver, and the Denver Pacific completed its line
from Denver to Cheyenne.
The bill thereupon charges that, in procuring the passage
and accepting the terms of the act of March 3, 1869, the Kansas Pacific abandoned its intention of building a line of road
to connect with the Union Pacific at Cheyenne, and, therefore,
that Denver became the terminus of its road, and the company
surrendered all its rights to that portion of the land grant
lying beyond its terminus at Denver, and, by operation of
this act, sections of public land within prescribed limits were
granted to the Denver Pacific as a new and independent
grant, that the Kansas Pacific and the Denver Pacific having
completed their lines of road, they respectively became entitled to certain portions of the land grant independently of
each other, notwithstanding the fact that, through their con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

neotions at Denver, they formed a continuous line of railway
from Kansas City to Cheyenne, and their rights to public lands,
under -the several acts aforesaid, extended only laterally along
the'lines of said roads respectively, and were comprised and limited by lines drawn through the terminus of each of said roads
at right angles to the general direction of the lines of said
roads. The bill then referred to a map, Exhibit A, as showing
the lines of said roads as connected at the city of Denver,
their general courses and directions as they extend eastwardly
and northwardly from the city of Denver, .and the lines by
which the rights of said respective companies to public lands,
under the acts aforesiiid, are limited, that west of the legal
terminal limit of the Kansas Pacific land grant, and south of
the legal terminal limit of the Denver Pacific land grant, lies
a large triangular tract of land of about 200,000 acres, substantially within a radius of 20 miles of the point of connection of the two roads at Denver, which the bill alleges was
not within the legal limit of the land grant to either of the
two companies, and to the odd-numbered section of which
they asserted claim, and for which they procu ed patents
from the Interior -Department,. the surrender and cancellation of which said patents it Was the -object of the bill to
secure.

The bill further alleged the consolidation, in January, 18SO;
of the Kansas Pacific and the Denver Pacific and the Union
Pacific Railroad Company into one- corporation, under the
corporate name of the Union Pacific Railway Company,
which became the-successor ininterest of the three prior corporations, that certain persons, who were made defendants.to
the bill, claimed title to certain lands of 'this tract by direct or
mesne conveyances from these companies, of the exact nature
of which titles plaintiff is ignorant, that, under an act of
Mfarch 3, 1587, providinc for the adjustment of land grants
made by Congress to aid in- the construction of railroads, etc.,
the Secretary of the Interior ascertained that the lands described in the bill had been erroneously and illegally patented;
as herein set out, and thereupon made a demand upon the
Union Pacific Railway Company, as- successor in interest to

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIO RAILWAY. 567
Opinion of the Court.

the others, for a reconveyance of the tracts of land so erroneously patented, which was refused.
The persons claiming title under these patents having been
made parties to -the bill, it prayed that the patents and other
outstanding deeds and other evidences of title be. decreed to
be void and surrendered for cancellation as clouds upon the
plaintiff's title, and for such other relief as might seem
proper.
To this bill demurrers were filed by most or all the defendants, except one Standley, who filed a plea. setting up divers
statutes and decisions in' the land. office upon which it is
claimed the patents rested, but which need not, be specifically
stated. Upon the hearing upon these demurrers-and plea, the
court made an order sustaining them, 37 Fed. Rep. 551, and
the plaintiff having elected to stand .byits bill as originally
filed, it was further ordered that the same be dismissed.
Thereupon the plaintiff appealed to this court.
Mr Assstant Attorney General -.Maury for appellant.
Xr John F Dillon, (with whom was .Mr Harry Hubbard
on the brief,) for the Union Pacificz Railway Company and
Joseph Standley
.Mr Oscar 2euter filed a brief for Joseph Standley and
others.
M . JusTicE Bnowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The object of this bill is to procure the surrender and cancellation of certain patents issued for a triangular tract of
land of about 200,000 acres in extent, lying upon the outside
of the right angle, or elbow, made by the junction at Denver
of the Kansas Pacific Railway, whose general course is east
and west, with the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph
Company, whose general course is north and south. These
roads are now consolidated under the name of the Union
Pacific Railway Company

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

By the original act of July 1, 1862, incorporating the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120, this company
was empowered to construct a road from a point on the one
hundredth meridian, between certain north and south limits,
to the western boundary of Nevada, and by the same act a
Kansas corporation was empowered to construct its line from
the Missouri River westwardly to the initial point of the
Union Pacific at the one hundredth meridian, and to connect
with the latter road at that point. Subsequently, and in 1866,
the Kansas corporation, whose name had meantime been
changed to the Union Pacific, Eastern Division, was authorized to so change its line as to connect with the Union Pacific
at a point not more than fifty miles westward from the
meridian of Denver. Acting upon this, the company did
change its line so as to make the same extend from Kansas
City westward in a direct line to Denver, and thence northward in a direct line to Cheyenne. By the original act, the
Union Pacific was to receive a grant of five alternate sections
of land for every mile, (subsequently raised to ten,) on each
side of the road, and as the Kansas corporation was to construct its road "upon the same terms and conditions in all
respects" as the Union Pacific, it followed that it was entitled
to the same land grant. The act authorizing the Kansas corporation to change its line of road, 14 Stat. -79, c. 159, provided
that, upon the filing of a map, showing the general route of
the road, the lands along the entire line thereof, so far as the
same might be designated, should be reserved from sale by
order of the Secretary of the Interior, showing clearly that it
was designed to preserve the land grant to which the road
was entitled under the original act.
In this condition of things the act of 1869 was passed,
which authorized this corporation, then known as the Union
Pacific, Eastern Division, to contract with the Denver Pacific,
a Colorado corporation, for the construction of that portion
of its line between Denver and Cheyenne, (hereby clearly
recognizing the validity of the change of location,) to adopt
its road-bed, to grant to the Denver Pacific a "perpetual use
of its right of way and depot grounds, and to transfer to it

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY. 569
Opinion of the Court.

all the rights and privileges, subject to all the obligations
appertaining to such. part of its line." Even supposing that
the act of 1866 did not, upon its face, authorize the change
that was actually made, that is, westwardly to Cheyenne, by
the way of Denver, it is clear that, by the act of'March, 1869,
this line was recognized as a proper compliance with the act
of 1866, and as a valid and continuous line from Kansas City
to Cheyenne.
The position of the government in this connection is that
the act of 1869 separated the grant of lands to the Denver
Pacific from that in aid of the Eastern Division of the Union
Pacific, and thereby made them two distinct and independent
lines of road, each with its own. land grant. This construction would disentitle the Kansas Pacific Company to any
lands west of its terminus at Denver, or west of a north and
south line across its twenty-mile limit, and the Denver Pacific
to any lands south of its terminus at the same place, leaving
a triangular piece of about 200,000 acres to revert to the
government. These are the lands in dispute.
We do not, however, so read the act. It did not declare
that the Union Pacific, Eastern Division, should end at Denver or that the Denver Pacific should begin at Denver, but
simply that the former might contract with the latter for
the construction, operation and maintenance of a part of its
line. Under the interpretation contended for, if that part
had been between the one hundredth meridian and Denver,
instead of between Denver and Cheyenne, it would thereby
have made it a distinct and independent line of road, though
running in the same direction.
It is -true that, under the original act of 1862, the grant
was limited to the odd-numbered sections "on each side of
said railroad, on the line thereof, and within the limits of ten
miles on each side of said road," but it does not follow that
if the road makes a curve or right angle, the grant ceases in
any way to be operative at that point. The railroad is entitled to its grant of ten alternate sections to each mile of
road, and is entitled to have it selected within the limits of
twenty miles on each side, but there is no requirement that

OCTOBER TERMIf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the lands shall be reached by a line run at right angles to the
road. ConsiderAble light is thrown upon the interpretation
of the statute of 1869 by the phraseology of section 2, which
provides that the Union Pacific, Eastern Division, shall extend its line to Denver, "so as to form with that part of
its line herein authorized to be constructed" by. the Denver
Pacific "a continuovs line of railroad and telegraph from
Kansas City, by way of Denver, to Cheyenne," and that
"all the. provisions of law for the operation of the Union
Pacific Railroad, its branches and connections, as a continuous
l4ne, without discrimination, shall apply the- same as if the
road from Denver to Cheyenne had been constructed by the
Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division." So far
from this language indicating, that this was not to be considered a single line, it is difficult to see how Congress could
have expressed more clearly, by inference, that they were
not to be treated, as independent roads. This construction
is also reinforced by the amendatory act of June 20, 1874,
18 Stat. 111, which provides that "for all the purposes of
said act," (of 1862,) "and of the acts amendatory thereof,
the railway of the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph
Company shall be deemed and taken to be a part and extension. of the road of the Kansas Pacific Railroad, to the point
of junction thereof with the road of the Union Racific Railroad Company at Cheyenne, as provided in the act.of March
third, 1869."
Indeed, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the act of
1862, being a grant mresonh,the rights of the Union Pacific,
Eastern Division, to the lands upon each side of its road became
fixed from the moment it proceeded, under the act of 1866, to
establish its line of definite location so as to make the same
extend from Kansas City westwardly to Denver, and thence
northwardly to Cheyenne, and, in fact, that was practically
the ruling of this court in .1issourt, -Eansa &c.Railway v
ffansas Pacfic Railroad Comiany, 97 U S. 491, 496, 497,
498. But however this may be, it is entirely clear that the
act of 1869 should not be construed to have the effect of
breaking the continuity of the line unless its language inpera-

UNITED STATES v. -UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY. 571
Opinion of the Court.

tively requires it. So far from this being the case, the very
title of the act, "to authorize the transfer of lands," granted
to the Union Pacific, to the Denver Pacific, "and to expedite
the completion of, railroads to Denver," indicates that it was
never intended to operate as a forfeiture, or as a reduction in
amount, of any lands to which the Union. Pacific, Eastern
Division, had become entitled by filing its line of definite
location, or to create: distinct lines of road, but was merely
designed to permit the Union Pacific to contract with the
Denver Pacific for the construction, operation and maintenance of a portion of its line. It is true that by the 3d section,
.which authorizes the "said compani,3s" to mortgage, "their
respective portions of said road," and provided that "each of
said companies shall receive, patents to the alternate sections
of land .along their respective lines,' the two onvoratons were
thereby recognized as independent, yet, at the same time, it
recogmized them as two corporations engaged in the construction of the same line of road, and evidently, contemplated a
division between them of the land grant appropriated to such
line. The special proviso of section 3 was doubtless inserted
to entitle the Denver Pacific to take patents for its portion of
the land granted, direct from the United StatesIn addition to all this, the facts set forth in the plea of
Joseph Standley, which, for the purposes of this case, may be
taken as true, indicate very strongly an acquiescence of the
Interior Department from the date of the .act of March 3,
1869, down to December, 1887, a period of over eighteen years,
in the construction -of the act contended for by the defendant.
The plea set forth that, in compliance with the, act of 1866,
the Union Pacific, Eastern Division, filed with the Secretary
of the Interior a map of the general "routeof its line, from the
western boundary of Kansas, through Denver, to Cheyenne,
and that the Secretary of the Interior on the same day directed
the withdrawal of lands in Colorado on the designated line of
said route, that, in pursuance of said direction, the Commissioner of the Land Office prepared a diagram showing the line
of route, and the map of the land grant, and forwarded the
same to the register and receiver of the land office at Denver,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

directing'the odd-numbered sections to be withdrawn on account of this grant, that, included in said diagram, are all the
lands mentioned in the bill, that these lands were so withdrawn in accordance with these instructions, that this map
of the general route was the only one ever filed, that the
directions to withdraw these lands were never vacated, that
on August 21, 1869, the Denver Pacific filed its map of definite location of the section between Denver and Cheyenne,
which was approved by the Secretary of the Interior, that on
May 26, 1870, the Kansas Pacific also filed its map of definite
location between the boundary of Kansas and Denver, which
was approved by the Secretary of the Interior, that, under
his directions, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
prepared maps showing the limits of the land grants, that,
included in these maps, were all the lands described in the
bill, and that In 1870, a contest having arisen between the
two roads as to the ownership of certain sections, an adjustment was had by the Department of the Interior of their
several rights.
The plea further avers that, in 1873, in a case then pending
in the General Land Office between the Kansas City Pacific
and one William lodge and John Tracy, the Commissioner
of the Land Office formally decided that the act of 1869 did
not sever the original grant to the Union Pacific, but that the
grant was a continuous one through Denver to Cheyenne,
that his ruling in that particular was affirmed in 1874 by the
acting Secretary of the Interior, and that this was the uniform
construction put upon the act until 1887, when the Department reversed its former decision, and for the first time held
that the lands covered by the bill were not included within
the land grant to either road.
If there were any doubts with regard to the interpretation

of the act of 1869, the construction placed upon it by the
Land Department for eighteen years, under which construction
these lands have been put upon the market and sold, would
undoubtedly be entitled to considerable weight.
We have no doubt of the correctness of the conclusion
reached by the court below, and its decree is, therefore,
.Affrmed.

