CHICOT COUNTY v. SHERWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

COTCOT COUNTY o. SHERWOOD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 170. Submitted March 24, 1893.-Decided April 3, 1893.

An action will lie in a Circuit Court of the United States in the State of
Arkansas at the suit of a citizen of New York, against a county in Arkansas, to recover on bonds and coupons issued by the county to aid in the
construction of a railroad and held by the citizen of New York, notwithstanding the provisions in the act of the Legislature of Arkansas of February 27, 1879, repealing all laws authorizing counties within the State to
be sued, requiring all demands against them to be presented to the County
Courts of the several counties for allowance or re3ection; and allowing
appeals to be prosecuted from the decisions of thosa courts.
An answer to a declaration on such bonds and coupons setting out the statutory provisions under which the bonds were issued and averring that the
election under which they were claimed to have been authorized was not
a free and fair election but was a sham "as shown by papers filed with
the county clerk," and reciting various irregularities which were alleged
to appear "by reference to certified copies of the papers sent into the
clerk's office" from some of the various precincts of the county, and concluding "and so the county says that there was in fact no election held in
said county on February 27, 1872, to determine whether or not the county
would subscribe to the capital of said railroad company and issue bonds
to pay the same" presents no issuable question. of fact, going to the
merits of the suit, andif demurred to, the demurrer should be sustained.
While matters of fact, well pleaded; are admitted by a demurrer, conclusions
of law are not so admitted.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

_r

D IT Reynolds for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendants in error.

MR. JUSTICE JAC1sOx delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action by the defendants in error, citizens of
the State of New Yoik, against Chicot County, Arkansas,
upon 17 bonds and 80 interest warrants or coupons thereto
attached, forming a portion of an issue of bonds made and
executed by that county, in 1872, for the amount of a stock
subscription made by it to the Mississippi, Ou achita and Red
VOL. cx v--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

River Railroad Company The bonds and coupons sued on
were in the following form
"U ITED STATES OF AmERIcA, State of Arkansas.
"No. 3.
$500.
"It is hereby certified that the county of Chicot is indebted
unto and will pay the Mississippi, Ouachita and Red River
Railroad Company or bearer, on the first day of January,
1887, five hundred dollars, lawful money of the United -States
of America, with interest at the rate of six per centum per
annum, payable semi-annually, on the first days of January and
July of each year, at the Union Trust Company, in the city
of New York, on the presentation and surrender of the proper
coupon hereto annexed. This bond is one of a series of two
hundred, numbered from one to two hundred, inclusively, of
like date, tenor and amount, issued under an act of the general
assembly of the State of Arkansas, entitled ' An act to authorize counties to subscribe stock in railroads,' approved July 23,
1868, and in obedience to the vote of the people of said county,
at an election held in accordance with the provisions of said
act, authorizing the subscription of one thousand dollars to the
capital stock of said railroad company
"In witness whereof, the said county has caused to be affixed hereto its seal, and has caused the same to be attested
by the signature of its county and probate judge, counter
signed by the signature -of its county clerk, who also signs the
coupons hereto annexed, at their office, in said county, this
11th day of May, 1872.
JAs. W ,_AsoN,

" County and ProbateJudge.
"M. W GRAvEs, County Clerk.
"Receivable in payment of all county taxes.
"ISTATE OF.

AxsAs

"The treasurer of the county of Chicot will pay fifteen
dollars to bearer at the office of the Union Trust Company, in
the city of New York, on the first day of January, 1887, being
amount-mterest on bond No. 3.
" M. W GRAvEs, County Clerk."

CBICOT COUNTY v. SHERWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs for the
amount of the bonds and coupons sued on, and the county
prosecutes this writ of error therefrom, assigning as grounds
of reversal, first, that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to
entertain the suit, and, secondly, that said court erred in sustaining the plaintiffs' demurrer to the plea or answer of the
county, and in rendering judgment against it, upon its declining to make further answer in bar or defence of the action.
After being summoned in the usual manner the defendant
moved to dismiss the suit on the grounds that, since the passage of an act of the legislature of Arkansas, on February 27,
1879, Gannt's Dig. (1884), 350, repealing all laws authorizing
counties in, the State to sue and be sued, the county could not
be sued or proceeded against in any court, state or federal,
by complaint and summons, or otherwise than in the manner
provided by said act; that the county had not been brought
into the Cir~uit Court in any mann3r authorized by law, so as.
to acquire jurisdiction over the same, that the plaintiffs had
not presented their demand to the county court of Chicot
County, duly verified according to the requirements of the
statute, for allowance or rejecton, and that without such
verification and demand no case against, or controversy with,
the county could arise of which any state or federal court
could take cognizance or jurisdiction. The second section of
the act of February-27, 1879, on which this motion was based,
provided "that hereafter all persons having demands against
any county shall present the same, duly verified according to
law, to the county court of such county for allowance or rejeczon. From the order of the county court therein, appeals
may be prosecuted as now provided by law If in any appeal
the yudgment of the county court is reversed the judgment of
reversal shall be certified by the court rendering the same to
the county court, and the county court shall thereupon enter
the judgment of the superior court as its own."
The Circuit Court overruled this motion to dismiss the suit,
and this action of the court constitutes the first error relied on
for reversal of its judgment. It is claaned for plantiff in error
that, inasmuch as the courts of general jurisdiction in Arkansas

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

have no original jurisdiction to hear and determine cases like
the present, since the passage of said act of Februarv 27, 1879,
the courts of the United States can exercise no such jurisdiction.

In the case of 3T evada County v Hicks, 50 Arkansas,

416, 420, it was said by the Supreme Court of Arkansas that,
"whilst it is true, by the act of February 27, 1879, counties
cannot be sued, in the ordinary way of bringing suits, still
judgments may be and are rendered against them. Every
allowance of a clasm, by the county is a judgment, and, unquestionably, when an appeal is prosecuted fromthe action of
the county court in allowing or rejecting a claim, the decision
of the appellate court is a judgment, and when the judgment
of the county court is reversed the judgrnent of reversal, when
certified to the county court, is required to be entered as the
judgment of the county court."
If, under this construction of the act, the allowance or rejection by the county court of any demand against the county,
duly verified according to law, has the force and effect of a
judgment for or against the county, from which an appeal will
lie, it would seem that the making or presenting a demand
against the county to the county court is, to all intents and
purposes, such a legal proceeding as would permit the application of the rule which plaintiff in error invokes to defeat the
jurisdiction.of the federal court, for in the case of Gaznes v
Fuentes, (92 U S.10, 20,) cited and relied on to support its
position, it is said, "if by the law obtaining in the State,
customary or statutory, they [suits] can be maintained in a
state court, whatever designation that court may bear, we
think they may be maintained by original process in a federal
court where the parties are, on one side, citizens of Louisiana
and, on the other, citizens of other States."
If, however, the presentation of a demand against the
county, duly verified, according to law, to the county court
thereof, "for allowance or r'eecton" is not the beginmig of
a suit or does not involve a trial interpartes,it is then only a
preliminary proceeding to a suit or controversy which, by the
appeal of either side, is or may be carried to an appellate court,
before which there is an actual trial between the parties inter-

CHICOT COUNTY v. SHERWOOD.
Opinin of the Court.
J

ested. The right to maintain this revisory trial in the state
court, even under the principle contended. for, will be sufficient
to maintain a like suit by original process m a federal court
where the requisite diverse citizenship exists. In -Delaware
County v. -DieboldSafe Co;, 133 U. S. 473, 486, 487, Mvr. Justice
Gray, speaking for this court, and commenting upon a somewhat similar statutory provision, said "It' was also objected
that the petition for removal was filed too late, after the case
had been tried and determined by the board of county commnissioners. But, under the statutes of Indiana then in force,
although the proceedings of county commissioners in passing
upon clains against a county are in some respects assinilated
to proceedings before a court, and their decision, if not appealed
from, cannot be collaterally drawn 'm question, yet those proceedings are in the nature, not -of a trial nter partes,but of an
allowance or disallowance, by.officers representing the county,
of a claim against it. At the hearing before the commissioners
there is no representative of the county, except the commissioners themselves, they may allow the claim, either upon
evidence introduced by the plaintiff, or without other -proof
than their own knowledge of the truth of the claim, and an
appeal from this decision is tried and determined by the circuit
court of the county as an original cause, and upon the comIt follows,
plaint filed. before the commissioners.
cases,
in
analogous
of
this
court
according to the decisions
that the trial in the circuit court of the county was Ithe trial'
of the case, at any time before which it might be removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States under clause 3 of section
639 of the.Revised Statutes."
If, therefore, the presentation of a demand to the county
court under the Arkansas statute is not the commencement of
a suit against the county, then, under the rule stated in -Delaware County v. D'iebold Safe Co., just quoted, the court to
winch such demand may be carried after allowance or rejection
receives and determines it as an original cause. In either case
the suit is so maintainable in the state courts as to be cognizable by original process in a federal court, where the parties
have the proper citizenship to confer jurisdiction. Any other

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opunon of the Court.

view of the subject would prevent citizens of other States from
resorting to the federal courts for the enforcement of their
claims against counties of the State, and limit them to the
special mode of relief prescribed by the act of February 27,
1879. The jurisdiction of the federal courts is not to be
defeated by such state legislation as this. In Hyde v. Stone,
20 How 170, 175, it is said "But- this court has -repeatedly
decided that the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States
over controversies between citizens of different States cannot
be impaired by the laws of the States, which prescribe the
modes of redress in their courts, or which regulate the distribution of their judicial power. In many cases state laws form
a rule of decision for the courts of the United States, and the
forms of -proceeding in these courts have been assinilated to
those of the States, either by legislative enactment or by their
own rules. But the courts of the United States are bound to
proceed t) judgment and to afford redress to suitors before
them m every case to which their jurisdiction extends. They
cannot abdicate their authority or duty in any case in favor
of another jurisdiction. S ydam v. Broadna, 14 Pet. 67,
lUnwn Bank v Jolly's Adminstrators,18 How 503." This
principle has been steadily adhered to by this court.
In the case under consideration the state statute relied on
to defeat the jurisdiction of the United States Circuit Court
was passed after the bonds sued on were issued and put in
circulation, and if its requirement of presenting the bonds to
the county court of Chicot County "for allowance or rejection" was binding upon citizens of other States holding such
bonds, it would present a very grave question whether it was
not such a substantial and material change in the remedy in
force when the contract was made, as to impair its obligations.
But it is not necessary to consider and determine that question,
as the objection to the jurisdiction of the Circit Court, for the
reasons already stated, is not well taken.
Theseeend-assignment of error is to the action of the Ciicuit
Court in sustaining the demurrer to the answer of the county
The answer, after setting out the constitutional and statutory
provisions of the State, under which the county was authorized

CHICOT COUNTY v. SHERWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

to issue the bonds in question, and the proceedings of the
county court in reference to the submission of the question of
subscribing $100,000 to the capital stock of the railroad company, and the election had thereunder by the people of the
county, together with the result of the vote, which, according
to the returns, as ascertained and found by the county court,
showed a majority of 320"votes in favor of the county making
the subscription, proceeds to set forth a mass of irrelevant
matter, such as the occurrence of a riot at a former election,
the occupation of the county-seat by a force of state troops to
protect life and property when the order for the election under
which the subscription voted was made, and continued so occupied till after the election, and alleges "that a condition of
affairs existed in the county that precluded a free and fair
election, and the veriest sham of an election was held at some
of the various precincts on February 17, 1872, (the day of the
election,) as shown by papers iled wtth the county clerk, and
winch upon their face show that there was not a legal election
at any precinct m the county of Chicot on said February 17,
1872, and that no poll-books were furnished to the several
precincts as required by law", together with various other
recited irregularities, alleged to be shown by papers filed, but
by whom filed is not averred, nor is it stated how, or in what
way, as matter of fact, such irregularities affected the vote
actually cast and counted, on which the subscription was carried. After a recital of these matters, which, it is said, appear
"by 'eference to certtfled coptes of the papers sent into the
clerk's office from some of the various precincts in the county,"
numerous papers are marked as exhibits and made part of the
answer, and from which is drawn the conclusion set up in the
answer, as follows "And so the county says that there was
in fact no election held in said county on February 27, 1872,
to determine whether or not the county would subscribe to
the capital of said railroad company and issue bonds to pay
the same."
It is further averred in the answer that the county court
was not the proper tribunal to determine whether an election
had been held in pursuance of the statute regulating the mat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ter, that the false recitals on the face of the bonds, to the
contrary, did not estop the county, that the terms and conditions of the order submitting the question of subscription to a
vote of the people were not complied with, so that the county
was not legally bound to pay the bonds or any part thereof,
and that the railroad company had delivered the stock to the
cocunty court before the election was held, and, after said election, had obtained the bonds illegally and fraudulently, etc.
The answer also sets out proceedings had in the county court
after the bonds were issued, and reports made to it in relation
thereto, which are made exhibits to the answer, and which, it
is claimed, show that the bonds were not issued in conformity
to law
To this answer there was interposed a demurrer, which was
sustained, and the county electing to stand on its answer, and
say nothing further in bar of the plaintiffs' right to recover,
judgment was thereupon rendered in favor of the plaintiffs,
for the amount of the bonds and coupons sued on, with interest
and costs of suit.
It is urged by the plaintiff in error that this action of the
lower court was erroneous, for the reason that the answer set
forth sufficient facts to invalidate.the bonds within the rule
laid down in )txon County v. Field,111 U. S. 83, 92, 93. We
do not take this'view of the answer. It abounds in recitals,
in statements of what papers made exhibits thereto purport to
show, and in conclusions of law, which are not admitted by
the demurrer, the rule being well settled that only matters
of fact well pleaded are admitted by a demurrer, while conclusions of law are not. United States v Ames, 99 U S. 35, 45,
Interstate Land Co. v .Maxwell Land Gragt Co., 139 U. S.
569, 578.
The answer was of such a character as to present no issuable
questions of fact going to the merits of the suit, and was
properly demurred to, and .there was no error m sustaining
the demurrer.
Our conclusion is, that the judgment should be
.A lftrmed.

