OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

NATIONAL HAT POUNCING
AOHINE COMPANY
v. HEDDEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 138. Argued March 13, 14, 1893.-Decided April 3. 1893.
The fifth claim in letters patent No. 220,889, issued to Edmund B. Taylor,
October 21, 1879, for improvements in machines for pouncing hats, viz..
"5. The combination of the support for the hat and the self feeding
pouncing cylinder, whereby the hat is drawn over the support B in the
direction of the motion of the pouncing cylinder," was anticipated by
the second claim in letters patent No. 97,178, issued November 23, 1869,
to Rudolph Eickemeyer.

THIS was a bill m equity to recover damages for the infringement of two letters patent for improvements in machines for pouncing hats, viz., patent No. 97,178, issued
November 23, 1869, to Rudolph Eickemeyer, and patent No.
220,889, issued October 21, 1879, to Edmund B. Taylor.
In his specification Taylor states

"The object of my invention is to dispense with feed rolls
and hat blocks in machines- for pouncing hats, to make the
cutting or pouncing cylinder self feeding, to enable the operator to control the speed and direction in which the hats to be
pounced pass over the cutting or- pouncing surface by the
hand with the assistance of a guard and presser pin, and to
cause the material to be pounced to move in the same direction as the surface of the self feeding cutter in contact with
it, thereby avoiding the injurious strain to which it is subjected in ordinary hat pouncing machines with feed rolls or
their equivalents.
"With my machine not only can hats be pounced without
any stretching or straining of the material to be pounced, but
hats of different styles can be pounced, or different parts of
the same hats can be pounced more or less, as may be desired,
without any change in the adjustment of the machine.

HAT POUNCING MJCHT E CO. v. REDDEN.

483

Statement of the Case.

"My machine consists of a table or supporting frame, X,
which carries, the bearingq F for the shaft, upon which is
fixed the driving pulley E and the .self feeding pouncing
cylinder A, which-can be revolved at any desirable speed.
This self feeding cylinder is covered with. the pouncing or
cutting material.
"A block, B, supports the hat or material to be pounced
and presses it against the self feeding pouncing cylinder A.
This block, is adjustable upon its iddle point by means of a
bolt tapped into it,, which passes through-the bracket D, and
is fastened by a nut, M. It is supported by the bracket D,
which turns on a pivot, and is operated by a treadle and lever,
P, and connecting rod 0.
"A guard, C, is placed directly over the supporting block
to protect the hands of the operator from contact with the
self feeding pouncing cylinder, and is adjustable upon the
bracket D by the means of the nutIR, which works m a
stirrup in the guard. " .
"The mode of operating my niaehine is as follows The
hat to be pounced is placed over the- supporting block and
pressed against the self feeding poicing cylinder by means
of the treadle operating the swinging:bracket. The self feeding pouncing cylinder, revolving at great speed, draws the hat
,through the space between the supporting block and the self
feeding pouncing cylinder. The band of the operator, assisted, when necessary, by the presser pin L, retards the hat
in its passage and controls its direction, by which means the
pouncing surface can be caused to move over the material to
be pounced at any rate of speed or in any direction that may
be desired."
The only claim alleged to be infringed was the fifth, which
reads as follows
"5. The combination of the support for the hat and the
self feeding pouncing cylinder, whereby the hat is drawn
over the support B in the direction of the motion of the
pouncing cylinder."
The following represent Figures 1 and 2 of the drawings

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Counsel for Appellees.

2

Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs in the Circuit
Court, the court found in favor of the plaintiff upon the second
claim of the Eickemeyer patent, but also found the fifth claim
of the Taylor patent to be invalid for want of novelty, and
dismissed the bill as to this patent. 36 Fed. Rep. 317. Defendants did not appeal from the decree against them as to the
Eickemeyer patent, but plaintiff appealed from sa much of the
decree as related to the patent to Taylor.
A1r Eugene Treadell and -Mr William TF Swan for
appellant.
XA Edward Q. Keasey, (with whom was Mr A. Q. -easbey on the brief,) for appellees.

HAT POUNCING MACHINE GO. v.- REDDEN.

485

Opimon of the Court.

M. JusTIcE BRowxT delivered the opinon of the court.
The fifth claim of the Taylor patent.was held, to be invalid
by the court below upon, the ground that it was anticipated
by the second claim of the Eickemeyer patent.
The operation of cutting or grinding off the rough surface
of the wool or fur of which the hat 's made, by the use of
pumice, is termed "pouncing." This was formerly done'by
pumice or sand paper held in the hand, and applied to the
frame of the hat, laid upon a flat surface, and to the crown,
fitted over a hat-block of corresponding shape. In time,
mechaical devices began to be employed for the same purpose. Originally, thins mechanism consisted simply of a block
over which the hat-body was stretched; and to which a rotary
motion was imparted, while the pouncing material was held m
the hand and applied to the surface of the hat. The patent
to Wheeler and Manley of August 14, 1866, contained an
improvemint upon this, and consisted in pouncing the hatbody by means of an emery cylinder or other pouncing surface
moving at a high speed m contact with or against a hat-body
revolving at a comparatively low speed. This machine, however, consisted of two separate devices, one for pouncing the
crown of the hat, and the other for pouncing the brin. The
patent to Nougaret of September 18, 1866, also provided for
two separate devices, one to pounce the crown and the other
the brim. Like the Wheeler and Manlev crown machine, the
lNougaret device for pouncing the crown contained a revolving
hat-block for carrying the hat, but the subordinate devices for
bringmg the different parts of the hat-block in contact with
the pouncing roller, differed somewhat in the two machines.
The patent to Labia-ux of March 26, 1867, was simply for an
improvement ihi the crown machine of Nougaret, and consisted
m the manner of hanging and operating the shafts upon which
the pouncing roller and block were secured, and in the mannei
of securing and holding the sand paper to the pouncing roller,
-andin some other minor particulars.
The patent to Eickemeyer of November 23, 1869, was a
decided advance upon previous devices, m the fact that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

crown of the hat was so supported that both the crown and
the brim were presented by the same instrument to the pouncing cylinder. 25 Fed. Rep. 496. In his specification he stated
his method of accomplishing this as follows "M[y invention
further consists in an arrangement of the -pouncing cylinder,
and a rest or supporting horn for the hat-body, which can be
introduced within the crown to support it against the cutting
action of thepouncing cylinder during the operation of pouncing, the arrangement being such as to dispense with the use of
a hat-block in:pouncing the tips and side crowns of the hats."
The second and third claims of this patent, the only ones
material to be considered, read as follows
"2. The arrangement and combination of a rotating pouncing cylinder with a vertical supporting horn, substantially as
described, whereby the supporting horn may be used to support the tip, side crown, or brim during the operation of
pouncing the hat.
"3. In combination with a rotating pouncing cylinder and
a rest or supporting horn, a swivelling feeding mechanism,
substantially as described, whereby the hat may be drawn
between the pouncing cylinder m different curves or directly
forward, as required."
The Taylor patent was applied for May 21, 1879. The fifth
claim of the specification as originally drawn read as follows
"5. The combination of the pouncing cylinder and the
support for the hat, whereby the hat is drawn over the moving pouncing cylinder in the direction of the motion of the
cylinder, substantially as described."'
As thus drawn, this claim was rejected by the examiner
upon reference to the Eickemeyer patent of March, 1874,
which does not appear m the record, but which it may be
presumed was substantially the sane as the patent of 1869 in
this particular. The specification was thereupon amended by
inserting before the words "pouncing cylinder," wherever they
occurred, the words "self-feeding," and the fifth claim was
amended to read as follows
"5. The combination of the support for the hat and the
self-feeding pouncing cylinder, whereby the hat is drawn

HAT .POUNCING MACHINE .C0. v. REDDEN.

487

Opinion of the Court.

over the moving pouncing cylinder m the direction of the
motion of the cylinder, substantially as described."
In his communication to the Patent Office the patentee
suggested in support of this amended claim that it differed
from the clain of the Eickemeyer patent of 1874, in the fact
that the cylinder was a self-feeding one, and its operation was
to cause the material to be pounced to move in the same direction as the pouncing material. In reply, the .examiner
expressed a doubt as to what was meant by the clause in
the fifth claim, "whereby the hat is drawn over the moving
pouncing cylinder in the direction of the motion of the cylinder," and suggested that it should read, "whereby the hat is
drawn over the support B in the direction of the motion of
the pouncing cylinder." In reply, the fifth claim was withdrawn, and two other claims proposed as follows
"5. The combination of the support for the hat and the selffeeding pouncingeylinder, substantially as described.
"6. The self-feeding pouncing cylinder, which feeds the
material to be pounced to the moving pouncing surface in the
direction of its own motion."
Attention was also called to the fact that this was the only
machine that was self-feeding. "It does not," said the patentee, "depend upon feed rolls for pouncing the hat, but the
pouncing cylinder is the only force that moves or presents the
hat to the pouncing surface. The claim is for the combination of the self-feeding pouncing cylinder with the support for
the hat, as described, m which the only motive power is the
rapidly revolving pouncing cylinder. This is believed to
differ from all previous machines which contain a feeding
apparatus which controls the hat as it is applied to the pouncing cylinder. As can be seen, in Taylor's patent, ,bt one
cylinder or roll is used, and this solely for the purpose of
pouncing the hats, and not in any way for feeding the hat,
except by its direct motion;" These claims were rejected
upon the ground "that the pouncing roller of all hat-pouncing
machines has a tendency to move the material acted upon in
the direction of its motion, but feed rolls have been added to
facilitate the feeding of the article to be operafed upon to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opnuon of the Court.

pouncing cylinder, and it is not deemed invention or improvement in the art to omit the feed rollers." The claim was
again amended and allowed in the following form
"15. The combination of the support for the hat and the
self feeding pouncing cylinder, whereby the hat is drawn over
the support B in the direction of the motion of the pouncing
ylinder."
It does not clearly appear why the claim was allowed in
this form, since it seems to be open to the same objections
that had been previously made to it, when presented in
slightly different language.
These proceedings in the Patent Office are set forth in detail for the purpose of showing the exact particulars which
were then, and are now, claimed to distinguish the Taylor
patent from the Eickemeyer patent of 1869. These are
1. The omission of the feed roll of the Eickemeyer patent.
2. The self-feeding characteristic of the pouncing cylinder.
An examination of the two devices shows that they are practically the same, except that, in the Taylor patent, the feeding roll of the Eickemeyer machine is omitted, and a guard and
presser pm substituted. The fifth claim of the Eickemeyer
patent of 1869 and the second claim of the Taylor patent are
also for the same elements, namely, a pouncing cylinder,
called "rotating" by Eickemeyer and "self feeding" by Taylor, and a support for the hat-block, termed a "vertical supporting horn" by Eickemeyer, though the operation of these
elements is differently described in the two claims. In the
Eickemeyer claim it is said that "1the supporting horn may-be
used to support the tip, side crown or brim during the operation of pouncing the hat," and in the Taylor claim, that " the
hat is drawn over the support B in the direction of the motion
of the pouncing cylinder." It is insisted, however, that the
feed roll, though omitted-.aithe !cond claim of the Eickemeyer patent, is contained in the third, and; beang an essen
tial element of his device, should be i ead into the second
claim as if it had been actually incorporated in it. If it were
true that the feed roll were necessary to the operation of the
combination of the second claim, this result would undoubt-

EAT POUNCING MACHINE CO. v. HEDDE[.

489

Opinion of the Court.

edly follow, in other words, if a person has invented a combination of three elements, all of which are necessary to the
operation of his device, he cannot, by malng a claim for two
of them, forestall another who has so combined these two
elements that they perform the same function that the -three
elements of the former patent performed.
On examination of Eickemeyer's device, however, it is difficult to see wherein the feed roll is so far essential to the
operation of the machine that it would not perform practically
the same function as the Taylor patent, if the feed roll were
omitted. There would still be left a support for the hat by
and upon which it could be held up to the pouncing cylinder.
The feeding of the hat, instead of being accomplished or
assisted by the feed roll, would be done entirely by hand as
contemplated m the Taylor patent. Indeed, all the sigificance of the words "self-feeding ') in this connection appears
to be that, when the hat is pressed against the pouncing
cylinder, it has a tendency to feed in' the direction in which
the cylinder revolves, and it is difficult to see why in either
machine the hat may not be fed in the opposite direction.
In the Eickemeyer machine it was fed in the opposite direction by the aid of the feeding-roll, and the same thing, it
would seem, may be done, by the application of a little more
force, in the Taylor patent.
The case then really resolves itself into the question whether
the omission of the feed roll involves inyention, and in view
of the fact that the hat support. and pouncing cylinder of the
Eickemeyer patent will accomplish practically the same functions as the Taylor device, though not so perfectly, we hold it
does not-in other words, it. required no invention to omit
the feed roll of the Ei6kemeyer patent, and to make the subsidiary changes necessary to produce a worlung device.
The truth s, the essence of the Taylor invention. was the
guard C and the presser pin L, and any argumenAt which
tends to prove that the feed roll was an essential part of the
Eickemeyer device is equally cogent to show that the guard
and presser pin are essential to the Taylor patent, since they
were designed to take the place of the feed roll and assist the

