OCTOBER TERT&,; 1892.
Statement of the Case.

That section 1909- has not been considered by this court as
repealed by said act of 1885, is manifest from the decisions
of this court upon questions of habeas corpus from those
Territories. 1hans Y ielsev, Petitioner,131 U S. 176.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE The application for a writ of error or
appeal is denied upon the authority of Cross v Burke, 146
U. S. 82, In re leath, Petitioner,144 U S. 92, Cross, Petztwner, 146 U S. 271, Cross v United States, 145 U. S. 571.
See also Railroad Co. v Grant, 98 U. S. 398, Dennzsom v.
Alexander, 103 U S. 522, United States ex rel. Traskc v
Wanainaker, 147 U. S. 149.
TFrit denied.

In re SCHNEIDER, Petitioner.

(No. 2.)

ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted Mfarch 13,1893.-

Decided March 14, 1893.

Leave to file petitions for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or the officers of the District
acting under a judgment of that Court, will be denied, when the ground
of the application relates to an error in the proceedings of that Court,
and does not go to its jurisdiction or authority.

THIS was a petition to this court by Howard J Schneider,
and Jeremiah M. Wilson, William F Mattingly, and A. A.
Hoehling, Jr., his attorneys, and in his behalf. The allegations
in the petition were substantially identical with those in the
petition set forth in the margin in In re Schneider, Petitioner,
(No. 1) ante, 157. The prayer was as follows:
"Wherefore your petitioners pray that the writ of habeas
corpus issue to Jerome B. Burke, the warden of the United
States jail, in the District of Columbia, commanding him to
produce the body of the petitioner, Schneider, in court forthwith, together with the cause of his detention as a prisoner
by said warden, and that petitioner, Schneider, may be discharged and set- at liberty, and petitioners furthermore pray

IN RE SCHNEIDER, Petitioner.

(No. 2.)

Argument for Petitioner.

that the writ of certhorartmay issue to John R. Young, clerk
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, commanding him to certify to this court all the proceedings of record of
the United States against'Howard J Schneider m that court,
to the end that the errors therein, as set forth m this petition,
may be fully corrected by this court."
The same reasons were given as were given there for the
action of the attorneys in uniting in the petition, and' for its
non-verification by Schneider.
31r Jeremsah X. Wilson, .Mr IFilliam F ifattingly and
Mr A. A. Hoehling,Jr., for the petitioner.
This is an application to this court for it to issue a writ of
habeas vorpus to the warden of the United States jail m this
District, and a writ of certhorarzto the Clerk of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia to send up the record.
This application is based upon the averment that the petitioner was deprived of his right and privilege, secured him by
the Constitution of the United States, to be tried by an npartial jury
That this court has, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, the right to issue this writ has been decided by it time
and time again.
It has also been frequently decided by this court that its
appellate jurisdiction in this connection, in contradistinction
to its original jurisdiction under the Constitution, is the right
which it has thus to review the decision of any inferior court
of the United States, and does not mean that the case must
be such as it would have appellate jurisdiction over.
This was decided very early in the history of this court in
respect to the old Circuit Court of the District, which preceded the present Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Eax _arte Burford, 3 Cranch, 448, Ex parte Bollman &
Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75.
These two cases have been commented on and approved by
this couft in numerous decisions from that time tofhe present.
See Exparte 3MlCardle, 6 Wall. 318, 324,
. .7 Wall. 500,

161

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.
A'gument for Petitioner.

Ex.parte Siebold, 100 U S. 371, 376, Hans .Nielson,Petitioner,
131 U. S. 176.
The claim in this. case is that the petitioner, under the circumstances shown m the record, did not have an impartial
jury, such as he was entitled to under the Constitution of the
United States, and that, for that reason, the court below was
without jurisdiction and power to proceed further with the
trial and to enter judgment and sentence upon the verdict.
In Exeparte Batn, 121 U S. 1, on habeas corpus, this court
held that, where the indictment had been changed by the
court below, in striking out a few words, alleged to be sur.plusage, there was no indictment by the grand jury, and that
the proceedings were a nullity
In Ex Parte lange, 18 Wall. 163, on habeas corp2us, this
court held that where the sentence passed by the court was
not authorized by law, it was a nullity, and the prisoner was
discharged. See, also, Exparte Jferger, 8 Wall. 85, 102.
In Ex parte Jackson, 96 U S. 727, where the petitioner had
been indicted for sending prohibited matter through the mails,
while the court held that the law under which he was indicted
was constitutional, and denied the writ, within the opinion the
court states that the constitutional guaranty of the people to
be secured in their papers against unreasonable searches and
seizures, extends to letters and sealed packages subject to
letter postage in the mails, that there was no question before
the court as to the evidence upon which the conviction was
had, nor does it appear whether the envelope was sealed or
left open for examination, the inference being that if the evidence had shown that the package had been sealed, bearing
letter postage, and had been opened by a post office inspector,
and the evidence secured in that manner upon which conviction was had, the petitioner would have been entitled to the
writ on the ground of the infringement of his constitutional
right.
Suppose the court below in this case had decided that the
defendant should be tried by eleven jurors, clearly any verdict
of such a jury, and judgment based thereon, would be void for
want of jurisdiction and power in the court below to proceed,

IN RE, SCHNEIDER, Petitioner.

(No. 2.)

165

Argument for Petitioner.
and the prisoner would be entitled to be discharged on habeas
corpus.
Suppose there were twelve jurors m the box, one of whom,
upon his examination on his yotr dire had declared that he
had a fixed and decided opinion that the defendant was
guilty, that he was satisfied that no evidence could be produced that could change that opinion, and that if he went into
the jury box he would convict, and the court had decided,
after all the peremptory challenges of the defendant had been
exhausted, that he was a competent juror, and -put him on the
jury, would not, from that moment, the court have been without, jurisdiction to proceed further in the case on the groundthat the jury was not impartial?
In CommonwealtA v. .Essex Company, 15 Gray, 239, 253,
Chief Justice Shaw, in what has become a leading case, puts,
for the purpose of testing a leading principle, a case as extreme as the one we above put, and remarks that "extreme
cases are allowable to test a legal principle."
The record shows that -the petitioner was compelled to exhaust peremptory challenges upon incompetent jurors who
were held to be competent by the court, men who declared
that they had not only read the reports in the papers, but-also
the proceedings at the coroner's inquest, that they formed
fixed and decided opinions, which they still entertained, and
which it would require strong evidence to remove.
Charles W Morris stated on his direct examination, ii answer to the question of the District Attorney as to whether
he could listen to the evidence given in court, and under the
direction of the judge bring in a verdict based solely on the
law and the evidence as he might hear it m court, answered,
"N o, sir, I don't know that I could." He stated on crossexamination that he had read all the proceedings- that he
had formed a very decided opinion, which he still entertained,
and that it would require certainly very positive evidence to
change his mind, and that, if he took his seat in the jury box,
he would be there with an opimon already formed, and winch
it would require strong evidence to remove.
The question decided by this court in the ieath Case, 14A

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

U S. 92, was that a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
this District would not lie to review the judgment below, and
that the act of March 3, 1891, providing for appeals and writs
of error in capital cases from existing Circuit Courts, did not
apply to this District.
In Cross v. United States, 145 U. S. 571, which was also a
-writ of error, the court held that under the act of February
6, 1889, to provide for writs of error in capital cases, the writ
would not lie.
That case again came up on appeal -from the court below
denying the writ of habeas corpus. The court held that the
act of Mlarch 3, 1885, extending its jurisdiction over cases from
the Circuit Court to the United States did not enlarge its
jurisdiction over the Supreme Court of this District, under its
Circuit Court jurisdiction. In re Cross, Petitioner,146 U. S.
271.
So that the question involved in the present case has not
been decided by this court, and we respectfully request an
opportunity to be heard in the premises.
Tim CHIEF JUSTIcE Leave to file petition for writs of
habeas corpus and certioran is denied. The ground of the
application does not go to the jurisdiction or authority of the
Supreme Court of the District, and mere error cannot be reviewed in this proceeding. Ex part- Parks, 93 U. S. 18, Ex
parte Btgelow, 113 U. S.328, Exparte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417,
Nielsen, Petitioner,131 U. S.176.

