OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the -Court.

and required to levy and collect the same- in addition to the
ad valorem duty provided by law The importers in this case
cannot be heard to complain of this additional duty or penalty,
which was a legal incident to the finding of a dutiable value in
excess of the entry value to the extent provided by the statute.
They had full notice of the proceedings before the board of
general appraisers upon their appeal to said board, and ample
opportunity to be heard on the question of the market value
of the imported goods. It cannot, therefore, be properly said
that they have been subjected to penalties without notice or
an opportunity to be heard, or been deprived of their property
without due process of law
The judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the importers' appeal to that court for want of jurisdiction must, therefore, be
Affimed.
In re SANBORN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 11. Original. Argued March 7, 1893.-Decided March 20, 1893.

No appeal from findings of fact and of law and the decision .of the Court
of Claims thereon made upon a claim transmitted to it by the head of a
Department with the consent of the claimant, and reported to that
Department by the court under the provisions of the act of March 3,
1887 24 Stat. 505, c. 359, lies to this court on the part of the claimant.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr George A. Zing, (with whom were -Mr Charles King
and Ar Villiam B. King on the brief,) for petitioner.
Mr Asststant Attorney General Milaury opposing.
MR. JusTIcE SiinRAsdelivered the opinion of the court.
A claim of John B. Sanborn, presented in the Department
of the Interior, for certain fees under a contract with Sisseton

INT lE SANBORN, Petitioner.
Opmlon of the Court.

and Wahpeton Indians, 'of ten per cenf of the amount appropriated for said Indians by section 27 of the Indian Appropriation Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 989, c. 5,3, was referred by
the Secretary of that Department, with the consent of the
claimant, to the Court of Claims, in pursuance of ยง 12 of the
act of March 3, 1887,.24 Stat. 505, c. 359, '1 Sup. Rev. Stat.
2d ed. 561. That court having concluded that Sanborn was
not entitled to recover, and 'having reported its ,findings of
fact and conclusions of law to the department, Sanborn, on
the 6th day of July, 1892, asked for the allowance of an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States. This
application,beingmade in a vacation of the Court of Claims,
was heard and denied by the Chief Justice, but was renewed
and argued before all the Judges on November 2, 1892, and
was denied by the court, which adopted. the opinion of the
Chief Justice previouslv filed upon the motion before him.
Thereupon Sanborn filed, in this court, his petition praying
that a writ of mandamus be allowed to the Chief Justice and
Judges of the Court of Claims; commanding them to allow- his
appeal as prayed for.
The question for us to answer is whether, where a claim or
matter is pending in one of the executive departments, which
involves controverted questions of fact or law, and the head of
such department, with the-consent of the claimant, has trans
mitted the claun; with the vouchers, papers, proofs and documents pertaining thereto, to the Court 'of Claims, and that
court has reported its.,findnrgs 6f fact,and'law to thedepartment by which it was transmitted, the claimant has. a
right. by appeal to bring the action of that, ourt before us for
review
The petitioner does not complain' of any illegality on- the
part of the court below in dealing with, his:'claim. He con:cedes that the action- of that court had, been invoked 'wth
his consent. .. W hat he complains of:is the refusal of the court
to allow his appeal, and we learn, from the opinion of the
court, that its refusal to allow the7-appeal.'was not put upon
any irregularity or.-defect in the claim, or.in the application
for the allovance of an appeal, but upon 'its view that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings before it were not the subject of appeal to this
court.
We must find an answer to the question thus put to us by a
construction of the act of March 3, 1887, read in the light of
the previous legislation establishing the Court of Claims, and
regulating the subject of appeals from its judgments to this
court.
This subject came, for the first time, before this court in the
case of Gordon v The l7idted States, 2 Wall. 561, wherein it
was held that, as the law then stood, no appeal would lie from
the Court of Claims to this court. The reasons for this conclusion are stated in the opinion of Chief Justice Taney,
reported in the appendix to 117 U S. 697, and interesting as
his last judicial utterance. Briefly stated, the court held that
as the so-called judgments of the Court of Claims were not
obligatory upon Congress or upon the executive department of
the government, but were merely opinions which might be
acted upon or disregarded by Congress or the departments,
and which this court had no power to compel the court below
to execute, such judgments could not be deemed an exercise
of judicial power, and could not, therefore, be revised by this
court.
A similar question arose in this court as early as 1794, in
the case of the Untted States v Yale Todd, an abstract of
which case appears in a note by Chief Justice Taney to the
later case of the Unqted States v Ferrezra,13 How 52, and
wherein it was held that an act of Congress conferring powers
on the Judges of the Circuit Court to pass upon the rights of
applicants to be placed upon the pension lists, and to report
their findings to the Secretary of War, who bad the right to
revise such findings, was not an act conferring judicial power,
and was, therefore, unconstitutional.
The case of the United States v Ferrezra,was that of an
appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Florida. The Judge of that court bad acted in
pursuance Of certain acts of Congress, directing the Judge to
receive, examine and adjust claims for losses suffered by Spaniards by reason of the operations of the American army in

IN RE SANBORN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

Florida. It was decided that the Judgers decision was not the
judgment of the -court, but a mere award, with a power to
review it conferred upoi- the Secretary of the Treasury, and
that from such an award no appeal could lie to this court.
Afterwards, and perhaps in view of the conclusion reached
by this court in these cases, on March 17, 1866, 14 Stat. 9, c.
19, Congress passed an act giving an appeal to the Supreme
Court from judgments of the Court of Claims, and-repealing
those provisions of the act of March 3, 1863, which practically
subjected the judgments of the Supreme Court to the re-examination and revision of the departments, and since that time
no doubt has been entertained that the Supreme Court can
exercise jurisdiction on appeal from final judgments of the
Court of Claims. Unsted States v. Alire, 6 Wall. 573, United
States v O'Grady, 22 Wall. 641, United States v. Jones, 119
U. S.477.
Express provision for such appeals was made by section 707
of the Revised Statutes, as follows "An appeal to the Supreme
Court shall be allowed, on behalf of the -United States, from
all judgments of the Court of Claims adverse to the United
States, and on behalf of the plaintiff, in any case where the
amount in controversy exceeds three thousand dollars, or
where his claim is forfeited to the United States by the judgment of said court."
Additions were made to the statutory law on this subject
by the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, c. 359, (1 Sup. Rev.
Stat. 2d ed. 559,) the 9th section of which is as follows. "That
the plaintiff or the United States, in any suit brought under
the provisions of this act, shall have the same rights of appeal
or writ of error as are now reserved in the statutes of the
United States in that case made, and upon the conditions and
limitations therein contained. The modes of procedure in
claiming and perfecting an appeal or writ of error shall conform in all respects and as near as may be to the statutes and
rules of court governing appeals and writs of error in like
causes."
The 12th section of the statute is in the following words
"That when any claim or matter .may be pending in any of
voL. cxLvi-15

OCTOBER TERAH, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

lie Executive Departments which involves controverted questions of fact or law, the head of such Department, with the
consent of the claimant, may transmit the -same, with the
vouchers, papers, proofs and documents pertaining thereto, to
said Court of Clains, and the same shall be there proceeded
in under such rules as the court shall adopt. When the facts
and conclusions of law shall have been found, the. court shall
report its findings to the Department by which it was
transmitted."
With these statutory provisions and decisions of the Supreme
Court before it, the court below held that a finding of fact
and law made, at the request of a head of a department, with
the consent of the claimant, and transmitted to such departinent, is not a judgment within the meaning of the 9th section
of the act of harch 3, 1SS7, or of the 707th section of the
Revised Statutes, and is not, therefore, appealable to this court.
Such a finding is not made obligatory on the department
to which it is reported -certaknly not so in terms, - and not
so, as we think, by any necessary implication. We regard the
function of the Court of Claims, in such a case, as ancillary
and advisory only The finding or conclusion reached by that
court is not enforceable by any process of execution issuing
from the court, nor is it made, by the statute, the final and
indisputable basis of action either by the department or by
congress.
It is, therefore, within the scope of the decision in Gordom
v United States. The provisions providing for appeals, in
the 9th section of the act of 1887, have reference to cases
under the prior sections of the act which treat of cases or suits
brought against the United States, whether in the District
Courts, Circuit Courts, or Court of Claims, and wherein final
judgments or decrees shall be entered. This seems to be clear
from the terms used-" the plaintiff or the United States, in
any suit brought under the provisions of this act, shall have
the same rights of appeal or writ of -error as are now reserved
in the statutes of the United States in that behalf made, and
upon the limitations and conditions therein contained." The
reference here is to the 707th section of. the Revised Statutes,

IN RE SAITBORN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

which, as already said, provides for an "appeal to the Supreme
Court on behalf of the United States, from all judgments of
the Court of Claims, adverse to the United States, and on
behalf of the plaintiff in any case where the amount in controversy exceeds three thousand dollars."
In the case before us there was, as held by the Court of
Claims, no final judgment obligatory upon the Department
of the Interior, or enforceable by execution from any court.
Moreover, there was really no sudt to which the United States
were parties. The claimant did not pretend that the government owed him anything for property sold or services rendered. His effort was to get the Department or the Interior,
which was paying money over to Indians under treaties, to
withhold from them an agreed percentage thereof for services
rendered by him to the Indians. While such a claim may be
rightfully regarded as a matter pendingin one of the executive
departments, whch involves 'controverted questions of fact or
law, within the meaning of the 12th section of the act of 1887,
we are unable to regard it as a suit brought against the United
States, within the contemplation of the 9th section of that act.
It is true that, by several statutes which appear. in a compendious form in sections 2103, 2104: and 2105 of the Revised
Statutes, the form and substance of contracts between Indians
and agents or attorneys, for services to be performed in reference to claims by such Indians against the United States, are
prescribed, and the approval of such contracts by the Secretary
of the Interior and- the Indian Commissioner is made necessary But such enactments, intended to protect the Indians
from improvident and unconscionable contracts, by no means
create a legal obligation on the part of the United States to
see that the Indians perform their part of such contracts.
Section 2101 provides that "the Secretary of the Interior
and Commissioner of Indian Affairs shall determine therefrom
whether, in their judgment, such contract or agreement has
been. complied with or fulfilled, if so, the same may be paid,
and if not, it shall be paid in proportion to the services rendered under the contract."
Such a claim may be, as already said, a matter pending. in

