PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
EE2ROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FO

THE

DISTRICT OF IDAHO,
No. 1241. Argued February 1, 2,1893.-Decided March 6, 1893.
In a prosecution for conspiracy, corruptly and by threats and -force to obstruct the due administration of Justice in a Circuit Court of the_ United
States, the combination of minds for the unlawful purpose and the overt
act in effectuatioil of that purpose must appear charged in the indictment.
A conspiracy is sufficientlv described as a combination of two or more persons, by concerted action, to accomplish a criminal or unlaw.ful purpose,
or some purpose not in itsell criminal or unlawful by criminal or unlawful means.
When the criminality of a conspiracy consists in an unlawful agreement of
two or more persons to compass or promote, some criminal or illegal
purpose, that purpose-must be fully and clearly stated in the indictment;
*while if the criminality of the offence consists in the agreement to
accomplish a purpose -not in itself criminal or unlawful, by criminal or
unlawful means, the means must be set out.
An indictment against a person for corruptly or by threats or force endeavoring to influence, intimidate, or impede a witness or officer in a court
of the United States in the discharge of his duty must charge knowledge
or notice, or setout facts that show knowledge or notice, on thepart of
the accused that the witness or officer was such.
A person is not sufficiently- charged in such case with obstructing or impeding the due administration of 3ustice in a court, unless it appear that he
knew. or had .notice that justice was being administered in such court.
PLAINTIFFS m

error were indicted under sections 5399 and

5440 of the Revised Statutes of the.United States, (the latter
as amended by the act of May 17, 18T9, 21. Stat. 4, c. 8,)
which are as follows
" SEC. 5399. Every person who corruptly, or by threats or
force, endeavors to. influence, intlmldate, or inpede any
witness, or officer in any court of the United States, in the.

discharge of his duty, or corruptly, or by*threats or force,
obstructs or impedes, or endeavors to obstruct or impede, the
due adminstration of' justlce theren, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment
not more than three months, or both."

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Statement of the Case:

"SEc. 5440. If two or more persons conspire either to
commit any offence against the United States or to defraud
the United States m any manner or for any purpose, and one
or more of such parties do any act to effect the object of the
conspiracy, all the parties to such conspiracy shall be liable to
a penalty of not more than ten thousand dollars, or to inprisonment for not more than two years, or to both fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court."
The indictment alleged that on Mav 28, 1892, suit was
commenced in the United States Circuit Court for the District
of Idaho, wherein the Bunker Hill and Sullivan Mining and
Concentrating Company was complainant, and the Miners'
Union of Wardner and others were defendants, that a writ
of injunction was duly and regularly issued therein by the
court, directed to plaintiffs in error and many others as defendants, which writ of injunction was set out m full m the ndictment, and ordered as follows
"In the meantime and until the further order of this court
herein, the said defendants and each of them, their aiders,
attorneys, officers, agents, servants and employes be, and they
are hereby, severally restrained and enjoined from in any
manner interfering with the complainant herein in any of its
work in and upon or about its said mining claims, to wit, the
Bunker Hill, the Sullivan, and the Small Hopes Lode mimng
claims mentioned in the complaint herein, or in any part
thereof, and from in any manner by force or threats or otherwise making any attempts to intimidate any employe of the
complainant herein, or from attempting to prevent by any
force or intimidation any employe of the said complainant
from proceeding to work for the said complainant in a peaceful, quiet, and lawful manner in and upon any part of tne
aforesaid mines or mining claims, or in or upon any works of
the said complainant therein or thereabouts or au all, and that
they, the said parties aforesaid, be, and they are hereby, further enjoined from intimidating or threatening or by any
force, threats, or any intimidation trying to prevent any employe of the complainant, herein from working in or upon the
aforesaid mines mentioned in the complaint herein, or at the

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

mills of complainant, or in or upon any mining or other
property of complainant, or from preventing any one from
entering the service of the complainant herein, or in any
unlawful manner interfering with the business of said complainant in employing persons to work upon its said property,
or from going upon any part of the said complainant's property
without permission from the complainant or its agents or
employes so to do, or in any manner entering upon the works
of the complainant, or within the buildings of the complainant, without its consent or the consent of its managers, agents,
or employes, and reference is hereby had to the bill of complaint herein, to which your attention is hereby directed, until
the further order of this court or the judge thereof, and the
foregoing restraining order is also directed against the agents,
servants, aiders, abettors, members, and associates of the defendants or either of them."
The indictment thereupon averred that the defendants, on
July 11, 1892, and while the writ of injunction was- in full
force and effect, "at Shoshone County, within the :Northern
Division of the District of Idaho aforesaid, did unlawfully,
corruptly, fraudulently, and feloniously conspire, combine,
confederate, and agree together to commit an offence against
the United States as follows, to wit," said defendants did,
then and there, "unlawfully, corruptly, fraudulently, and
feloniously conspire, combine, confederate, and agree together
to intimidate, by force and threats of violence, the employes
of the said Bunker Hill and Sullivan Mining, and Concentrating Company, then working in and upon the mines of the said
company and within and around the mill and other buildings
of the said company m, said Shoshone County, said mines,
mill, and other buildings of said company being then and
there the mines, mill, and other buildings mentioned and
described in said writ of injunction, with'the intent then and
thereby ona the part of the said" defendants (naming them)
"to compel the employes of the said Bunker Hill and Sullivan
Mlining and Concentrating Company to abandon their work
in and upon the mines, mill, and other buildings of the said
mining compaiy last mentioned," that the defendants "did

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

then and there further unlawfully, fraudulently, corruptly,
and feloniously conspire, combine, confederate, and. agree
together to intimidate, by force and threats of violence, the
officers and agents of the said Bunker Hill and Sullivan Mining and Concentrating Company, with the intent then and
there and thereby, by means of said force and. threats of
violence, to compel the officers and agents of said mining
company to discharge and dismiss from the employ of the
said mining company all employes (other 'than such persons
as were members of what is called the Miner's Union) who
were working either upon or within the mines of the said
company and. in the said company's mill and other buildings,
which said last-mentioned mines, mill, and other buildings are
the mines, mill, -and other buildings mentioned and described
m the aforesaad writ of injunction issued out of the said United
States Circuit Court."
The indictment further averred that on July 12, 1892, the
defendants, while the writ of injunction was in full force and
effect and the suit in which the writ issued was still pending
and undetermined, "in aid of and in furtherance of and for
the purpose of effecting the object of the said unlawful and
malicious combination and conspiracy formed and entered into
as afores6id and for the purpose and object aforesaid, did, on
the said 12th day of July, 1892, at the county and State aforesaid, unlawfully, fraudulently, corruptly, wilfully, and felomously, by force and violence and threats of violence, intimidate
and compel the employes of the said Bunker Hill and Sullivan
Mining and Concentrating Company, then and there working
in and upon the niines of the said company and within and
around the mill, property, and other buildings, all the property
of said company, to cease and abandon work in and upon the
mines and within, and around the mill, property, and other
buildings of said company, said- mines, mill, and other buildings of said company being then and there the same mines,
mill, property, and- buildings mentioned and described in said
writ of injunction, and said- employes being then and there in
the employ of said company, and did then and there unlawfully, corruptly, fraudulently, wilfully and feloniously compel

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

and force the said employes, by the intimidation and violence
-and threats of violence aforesaid, to abandon and leave and
cease their said employment under said company and their
work in and upon the nnes, mill, and other buildings of the
said mining company last mentioned." And the defendants did
by intimidation and violence and threats of force and violence
intu nidate and compel the officers and agents of said Bunker
Hill Company against their will and consent to discharge and
dismiss from the service and employment of the company all
its employes, other than such persons as were members of'
what was called the Miners' Union, who were then working
m and upon the property of the company
"1Andso the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid do charge and say that the said" defendants (naming
them) "at the said Shoshone County, within the said Northern Division of the District of Idaho, did, on thejl1th day of
July, 1892, unlawfully, wilfully, fraudulently, and feloniously
conspire, combine, confederate, and agree together to commit
an offence against the United States, to wit, to corruptly and
by force and threats obstruct and impede the due administration of justice in the aforesaid United States Circuit Court for
the Ninth Judicial Circuit, District of Idaho, and did, thereafter, on the 12th day of July, 1892, in pursuance of said
unlawful and malicious combination and conspiracy, unlawfully, wilfully, and felomously, in the manner and form aforesaid, corruptly and by force and threats of violence obstruct
and impede the duo administration of justice in-the aforesaid
United States Circuit Court. All of which is contrary to the
form, force, and effect of the United States statutes in such
cases made and provided and against the peace and dignity of
the United States."
Motions to quash and demurrers were filed and overruled,
and, after verdict,.motions in arrest were made and denied.
Plaintiffs in error were convicted and sentenced to imprisonment in the Detroit house of correction, George A. Pettibone
for two. years, John Murphy for fifteen months; and If. L.
Devine and C. Sinclair for eighteen months each.
This writ of error was thereupon allowed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

r Walter H. Smitth1 and .Mr PatrckReddy for plaintiffs
in error.
Mr -Attorney General and -Hr Charles W Russell for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF TUSTIcS FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

tlhe opinion of the court.
Under section 5399, any person who corruptly endeavors to
influence, intimidate or impede any witness or officer in any
court of the United States, in the discharge of his duty, or
corruptly, or by threats or force, obstructs or impedes, or endeavors to obstruct or impede, the due administration of justice
therein, is punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars, or by imprisonment not more than three months, or
both, and under section 5440, if two or more persons conspire
to commit an offence against or defraud the United States,
and one or more of them do any act to effect the object of the
conspiracy, all the parties are liable to a fine of not more than
ten thousand dollars or to imprisonment for not more than
two years, or to both. The confederacy to commit the offence is the gist of the criminality under this section, although
to complete it some act to effect the object of the conspiracy
is needed. United States v. Hirsc, 100 U. S. 33.
This is a conviction for conspiracy, corruptly and by threats
and force to obstruct the due administration of justice in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Idaho,
and the combination of minds for the unlawful purpose and
the overt act in effectuation of that purpose must appear
charged in the indictment.
The general rule in reference to an indictment is that all the
material facts and circumstances embraced in the definition of
the offence must be stated, and that, if any essential element
of the crime is omitted, such omission cannot be supplied by
intendment or implication. The charge must be made directly
and not inferentially or by way of recital. United -Statesv
-Hess, 124 U S. 483, 486. And m United States v. Brztton,
108 U. S. 199, it was held, in an indictment for conspiracy

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion -of the Court.

under section 5440 of the Revised Statutes, that the conspiracy
must be sufficiently charged, and cannot be aided by averments of acts done by one or more of the conspirators in furtherance of the object of the conspiracy
The courts of the United States have no jurisdiction over
offences not made punishable by the Constitution, laws or
treaties of the United States, but they resort to the common
law for the definition of terms by which offences are designated.
A conspiracy is sufficiently described as a combination of
two or more persons, by concerted action, to accomplish a
criminal or unlawful purpose, or some purpose not in itself
criminal or unlawful, by criminal or unlawful means, and the
rule is accepted, as laid down by Chief Justice Shaw in Commonwealth v Hunt, 4 Mlet. 111, that when the crnminality of
a conspiracy consists in an unlawful agreement of two or
more persons to compass or promote some criminal or illegal
purpose, that purpose must be fully and clearly stated in the
indictment, while if the criminality of the offence consists in
the agreement to accomplish a purpose not in itself crnnmal
or unlawful, by criminal or unlawful means, the means must
be set out.
This indictment does not in terms- aver that it was the
purpose of the conspiracy to violate the injunction referred
to, or -to-impede or obstruct the due administration of justice
in the Circuit Court, but it states, as a legal conclusion from
the previous allegations, that the defendants conspired so to
obstruct and impede. It had previously averred that the
defendants conspired by intimidation to compel the officers
of the mining company to discharge their employes and the
employes to leave the service of the company, a conspiracy
which was not an offence against the United States, though
it was against the State. Rev. Stats. Idaho, § 6541. The
injunction was also set out, and it was alleged that the defendants did intimidate and compel the employes to abandon
work, but the indictment nowhere made the direct charge
that the purpose of the conspiracy was to violate the injunction, or to interfere with proceedings in the Circuit Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The combination to commit an offence against the United
States was averred to consist in a conspiracy against the
State, and the completed act to have been m pursuance of
such conspiracy, but the pleader carefully avoided the direct
averment that the purpose of the confederation was the interruption of the course of justice in the United States court.
Nor did the indictment charge that the defendants were
ever served with process or otherwise brought into court, or
that they were ever in any manner notified of the issue of
the writ or of the pendency of any proceedings m the Circuit
Court.
That this omission was advisedly made is apparent from
the statement in the bill of exceptions that there was no
evidence given on the trial showing or tending to show that
the writ of injunction mentioned and set forth in the indictment was served upon the defendants or either of them, or
that they or either of them had any notice or knowledge of
the issue thereof.
It was said in United States v Carli, 105 U. S. 611, 612,
by Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion of the court
"In an indictment upon a statute, it is not sufficient to set
forth the offence in the words of the statute, unless those
words of themseives fully, directly, and expressly, without
any uncertainty or ambiguity, set forth all the elements necessary to constitute the offence intended to be punished, and
the fact that the statute in question, read in the light of the
common law, and of other statutes on the like matter, enables
the court to infer the intent of the legislature, does not dispense with the necessity of alleging in the indictment all the
facts necessary to bring the case within that intent?' That
was the case of an indictment for passing a forged obligation
of the United States, and it was held that by omitting the
allegation that the defendant knew the instrument which he
uttered to be forged, it had failed to charge him with any
crime.
The construction that applies to the first branch of section
5399 must be applied to the second, and 'if it were essential
that the person accused should.know that the witness or officer

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

-was a witness or officer in order to conviction of the charge
of influencing, intinmdating, or impeding such witness or officer in the discharge of his duty, so it must be necessary for
the accused to have knowledge or notice or information of the
pendency of proceedings in the United States court, or the
progress of the administration of justice therein,before he can
be found guilty of obstructing, or impeding, or endeavoring
to obstruct or inpede the same.
In Undted States v Bttinger, 15 Am. L. Reg. (N. S.) 49, it
was held that a person is a witness under section 5399 of the
Revised Statutes who is designated as such, either by the issue
of a subpcena or by the endorsement of his name on the
complaint, but that before any one could be said to have endeavored to corruptly influence a witness under that section,
he must have known that the witness had been properly designated as such. Unzted States v. K-ee, 39 Fed. Rep. 603.
In N-ited States v. Ieen, 5 Mason, 453, it was ruled by
Mr. Justice Story and Judge Davis, that it was no defence to
an indictment for forcibly obstructing or impeding an officer
of the customs in the discharge of his duty that the object of*
the party was personal chastisement, and not to obstruct or
impede the officer in the discharge of his duty, if he knew the
officer to be so engaged.
In cases of that sort it is the official character that creates
.ing v Osmer, 5
the offence and the ,seenter is necessary
East, 304, King v -Everett,8 B. & 0. 114, State v. Carpenter,
54 Vermont, 551, State v Bur't, 25 Vermont,t373, Statev.
-Maloney, 12 R. I. 25 1, State v -Downer, 8 Vermont, 424, 429,
Commonwealth v Israel, 4 Leigh, 675, Yates v People, 32
N. Y 509, Commonwealth v Eirby, 2 Gush. 577, State v.
.ilton, 26 Missouri, 199, State v. Smth, 11 Oregon, 205,
Horanv. State, 7 Tex. App. 183, _Duncan v. State, 7 Humph.
148, State v. Bailey, 2 Strobh. (Law), 73, State v. Beasom, 40
N. H. 367.
This is so whenever knowledge is an essential ingredient of
the offence, and not implied in the statement of the act itself.
Whart. Cr. F1. & Pr. § 164.
Under section 5398, every person who knowingly and wil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

fully obstructs, resists or opposes any officer of the United
States in serving or attempting to serve or executo any mesne
process or warrant, or any rule of or order of any court of the
United States, may be imprisoned and fined. It was held in
United States v Tinklepaugh, 3 Blatchford, 425, that an indictment under this section must distinctly state and charge that
a legal process, warrant, etc., was issued by a court of the
United States, and was in the hands of some officer of the
United States for service who had authority to serve the same,
and that after such process was in the hands of the officer for
service some one knowingly and wilfully obstructed, resisted
or opposed Inm in serving or attempting to execute the same.
And" m Undted States v .Stowell, 2 Curtis, 153, it was decided
that an gverment that the warrant resisted was issued by a
commissioner was not good, but the facts constituting the due
issue must be recited, and the absence of an averment that the
commissioner who issued the warrant was thereto authorized,
could not be aided by referring to the court records. United
States v Tiilemrs 4 Blatchford, 391.
It seems clear that an indictment against a person for corruptly or by-threats or force endeavoring to influence, intimidate -or impede a witness or officer in a court of the United
States in the discharge of his duty, must charge knowledge or
notice, or set out facts that show knowledge or notice, on the
part of the accused that the witness or officer was such. And
the reason is no less strong for holding that a person is not
sufficiently charged with obstructing or impeding the due
administration of justice in a court unless it appears that he
knew or had ntice that justice was being administered in such
court. Section 5399 is a reproduction of section 2 of the act
of Congress of IMarch 2, 1831, c. 99, 4 Stat. 487, "declaratory
of the law concerning contempts of court," though proceeding by indictmeit is not exclusive if the offence of obstructing
justice be comimitted under such circumstances as to bring it
within the power of the court under section 725. "Savrn,Petitwner', 131 U. S.267. In matters of contempt, persons are
not held liable for the breach of a restraining order or injunction, unless t~hey know or have notice, or are chargeable with

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

knewledge or notice, that the writ has been issued, or the
order entered, or at least that application is to be made, but
without service of process or knowledge or notice or information of the pendency of proceedings, a violation cannot be
made out. 2 Dan. Ohan. Pr. (4th Amer. ed.) 1684, 2 High
on Injunctions, (3d ed.) §§ 1421, 1452 TlTinsZow v .ayson,
113 Mass. 411.
Undoubtedly it is a condition of penal laws that ignorance
of them constitutes no defence to an indictment for their violation, but that rule has no application here. The obstruction
of the due administration of justice in any court of the
United States, corruptly or by threats or force, is indeed
made.criminal, but such obstruction can only arise when justice is being administered. Unless that fact exists, the statutory offence cannot be committed; and while, with knowledge
or notice of that fact, the intent to offend accompanies obstructive action, without such knowledge or notice the evil
intent is lacking. It is enough if the thing is done which the
statute forbids, provided the situation invokes the protection
of the.law, and the accused is chargeable with knowledge or
notice of the situation, but not otherwise.
It is insisted, however, that the evil intent is to be found,
not in the intent to violate the. United States statute, but in
the intent to commit, an unlawful act, in the doing of which
justice was m fact obstructed, and that, therefore, the intent
to proceed in the obstruction of justice must be supplied by a
fiction of law But the specific intent to violate the statute
must exist to justify a conviction, and this being so, the doctrine that there may be a transfer of intent in regard to
crimes flowing from general malevolence has no applicability1 Bish. Or. Law, § 335. It is true that if the act in question
is a natural and probable consequence of an intended wrongful act, then the unintended wrong may derive its character
from the wrong that was intended, but if the unintended
wrong was not a natural and probable consequence of the intended wrongful act, then this artificial character cannot be
ascribed to it as a 'basis of guilty intent. The element is waixtmg through whicn such quality might be imparted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

In 'e Coy, 127 U. S. 731, illustrates this distinction. There
the acts of Congress and the statutes of Indiana made it a
criminal offence for an inspector of elections or other election
officer to whom was committed the safekeeping and delivery
to the board of canvassers of the poll books, tally sheets and
certificates of the votes, to fail to perform this duty of safekeeping and delivery, and it was held that in an indictment
in a United States court for a conspiracy to induce those
officers to omit such duty, in order that the documents mentioned might come to the hands of improper persons, who
tampered with and falsified the returns at an election which
included a member of Congress, it was not necessary to allege
or prove that it was the intention of the conspirators to affect
the election of the member of Congress who was voted for
at that place, the returns of which were in the same poll
books, -tally sheets and certificates with those for State
officers, and that the danger which might arise from the
exposure of the papers to. the chance of falsification or other
tampering was not removed because the purpose of the
conspiratorg was to violate the returns as to state officers and
not the returns as to the member .of congress.
The general evil intent in tampering with the poll lists,
tally sheets and certificates was included in the charge, and
it was held that it was not necessary to show that that intent
was specifically aimed at the returns of the vote for congressman. This was supported by the analogy of the example
that where a man is charged with a homicide committed by
maliciously shooting into a crowd for the purpose of killing
some person against whom he bore malice and with no intent
to injure or kill the individual who was actually struck by
the shot, he cannot be held excused because he did not intend
to kill that particular person and had no malice against him.
There the result naturally followed from the act done, and it
must be presumed to have been in the contemplation of the
party And so, as the persons accused in Coy's case desired
and intended to interfere with the election returns, and purposed to falsify them, the felonious intent which exposed and
subjected the evidences concerning the votes for congressman

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to the opportunity for their falsification or to the danger of
such changes or forgeries as might affect that election, dispensed with the necessity of an averment or proof that there
-was a specific intent or design to influence the congressional
election.
INor is this all. The unlawful act which the defendants
are charged with conspiring to commit was not an offence
against the United States, so that, if the defendants were
held guilty of a conspiracy to violate the injunction or interfere with proceedings about which they knew nothing, such
conviction would have to rest upon a conspiracy to commit
an act unlawful in another jurisdiction, and in itself a separate
and distinct offence therein.
While offences exclusively against the States are exclusively
cognizable in the state courts, and offences exclusively against
the United States are exclusively cogmzable m the Federal
courts, it is also settled that the same act or series of acts
may constitute an offence equally against the United States
and the State, subjecting the guilty party to punishment
under the laws of each government. Cross v. -orth Carozina,
132 UT. S. 131, 139. But here we have two offences, in the
character of which there is no identity, and to convict defendants of a conspiracy to obstruct and impede the due
administration of justice in a United States court, because
they were guilty of a conspiracy to commit an act unlawful
as against the State, the evil intent presumed to exist in the
latter case must be imputed to them, although ignorance in
fact of the pendency of the proceedings would have otherwise constituted a defence, and the intent related -to a crime
against the State.
The power of the United States court was not invoked to
prohibit or to punish the perpetration of a crime against the
State. The injunction rested on the jurisdiction to restrain
the infliction of injury upon. the complainant. The crininal character of the inteiference may have contributed to
strengthen the grounds of the application, but could not and
did not form its basis.
The defendants could neither be indicted nor convicted of a
VOL. cXLVnI-14

OCTOBER TER-f, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

crime against the State, in the Circuit Court, but their offence
against the United States consisted entirely in the violation
of the statute of the United States by corruptly, or by threats
or force, impeding or obstructing the due administration of
justice. If they were not guilty of that, they could not be
convicted. And neither the indictment nor the case can
be helped out by reference to the alleged crime against the
State, and the defendants be punished for the latter under
the guise of a proceeding to punish them for an offence whicii
they did not commit.
The j udgnment s reversed, and the cause remanded, 'wzth tnstructhns to quash the indichment and discharge the
defendants.
M . JusricE BRiwwRi,
BRow.N,) dissenting.

(with whom .concurred Mn. JusTiCe

I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case. The
burden of the decision is, as I understand it, that the indictment is fatally defective, because it does not allege that the
defendants knew of the injunction, and, also, that the conspiracy was to obstruct the administration of justice in the
Federal court. In other words, the defendants cannot be
convicted of obstructing the administration of justice in the
Federal court, because they did not know that justice was
being there administered, and that as they did not combine
with the intent of obstructing the administration of justice,
no such intent can in law be imputed to "them. I insist that
the true rule is, that where parties combine in an unlawful
undertaking - and by that I mean an undertaking unlawful
in and of itself, and not one simply forbidden by statute, one
which is malun tn se, as, distinguished from malumr yrohibitum- they are amenable-to the bar of crnunnal justice for
every violation of law they, in fact, commit, whether such
violation is intended or not.
Take the familiar illustration Parties combine to break
into a house and commit burglary, while engaged in the
commission of that offence, resistance being made, one of the
party kills the owner of the house, can there be a doubt that

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion

Brewer, Brown, JJ.

they are all guilty of murder, although murder was not the
purpose of the combinatibn, and was not m the thought of
any but the single wrongdoer 2 In other words, they who
did not intend murder, who did not know. that.murder was, in
fact, being committed, are ruled to be chargeable with the
intent to commit murder, and to be guilty of that offence,
because they were engaged at the tne m an unlawful -undertaking, and the murder was committed in carrying that undertaking into execution. In 1 Hale, P 0. 441, it is said,
quoting from Dalton, 241 "If divers persons come in onecompany to do any unlawful thing, as to kilM, rob or beat a
man, or to commit a riot, or to do any other trespass, and one
of them, in doing thereof, kills a man, this shall be adjudged
murder in them all that are present of that party abetting
him and consenting to the act, or ready to aid him, although
they did but lerA- c"
Also in 1 East P C. 257 "Where
divers persons resolve generally to resist all opposers in the
commission of any breach of the peace, and to execute it with
violence, or in such a manner as naturally tends to raise
tumults and affrays, as by committing a violent dissezin with
great numbers, or going to beat a man, or rob a park, or
standing in opposition to the sheriff's posse,
they
must, at their- peril, abide the event of their actions," In
WMeston v Commnonwealth, 111 Penn. St. 251, it was held that
if several persons are with firearms holding a forcible possession of lands claimed by others, all are, guilty of a murder
committed by any one of them therein. In Williams, v The
State, 81 Alabama, 1, it appeared that several persons conspired to invade a man's household, and went to it with
deadly arms to attack and beat hin, and in carrying out this
purpose one of the party got into a. difficulty with the owner
and killed him, and the others were held guilty of murder,
although they did not mean it. So, in State v .McCahill, 72
Iowa, 111, a case in some respects like this, it appeared that
certain persons combined to drive employes from the premses,
and in carrying out this conspiracy committed a murder, and
it was held that the rest, who did not :intendit, were guilty
In that case, on page 117, the c urt thus stated tho law "But

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

where there is a conspiracy to accomplish an unlawful purpose, [as the forcible driving out of the new miners was,] and
the means are not specifically agreed upon or understood,
each conspirator becomes responsible for the means used by
any co-conspirator m the accomplishment of the purpose in
which they are all at the time engaged." See, also, Ilamiltom,
v The People, 113 Illinois, 34, Stephens v The State, 42 Ohio
St. 150, State v. Allen, 4=7 Connecticut, 1.
Applying these authorities to this case, if, while thesedefendants were thus forcibly driving the employes of the
mining companies away from their work, one of them had
shot and killed a resisting employe, would not all be guilty of
murder, although only the single party had a thought of murder in his heart 2 Of course, I do not mean to claim that if a
number are engaged in a single unlawful undertaking, and
one of them steps aside and commits an entirely independent
crime, all are responsible for that, but I do insist, that if all
are engaged in an unlawful undertaking, and while so engaged
and in carrying out that undertaking one commits an additional offence, not within the actual thought and intent of his
co-conspirators, all are guilty of that additional offence. And,
in like manner, where parties conspire and combine to do an
unlawful act, and in carrying that unlawful purpose into execution they do m fact'violate a statute of whose terms they
may be ignorant, and, therefore, one which they did not intend
to violate, they are m law guilty of its violation, and may be
punished accordingly The law under those circumstances
imputes to the wrongdoer the intpnt to violate every law
which he does in fact violate. So, as these parties are guilty
of this most unlawful act, this gross breach 6f the peace, this
act which m and of itself was a flagrant wrong against the
rights of individuals, both employers and employes, they
should be chargeable -ith the intent to commit every viola,
tion of law, which they did in fact commit. And when parties
stop injunctive process, they impede the administration of
justice.
But it is said that this breach of the peace was a disturbance
of only the peace of the State of Idaho, and that this unlawful

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opmion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

aggression was simply a violation of the statutes of that State,
and involved in and of itself no infraction of Federal, law,,
that before a conviction can be sustained it must be alleged
and proved that there was an intent to violate the Federal
law, and that an intent of wrong against one sovereignty
cannot be imputed to one who commits a wrong against
another sovereignty The converse of that has already been
settled by this court in the case of In -re Coy, 127 U. S. 731.
That was an indictment for a conspiracy, and the conspiracy
charged was to induce, aid' counsel, procure and advise certain election officers of the State of Indiana to unlawfully,
neglect and omit to perform the duties of the election laws of
that State. The indictment, it is true, described the election
as one at which a congressman was to be elected, but did not
charge any intent or conspiracy to do anything affecting the
election of such congressman, ind the point, and the main
point presented, was that the indictment contained no averment of an intent and purpose of the defendants to affect in
any manner the election of a member of congress, or to influence the returns relating to that office, but this court held
that the objection was not well taken. Mr. Tustice Field alone
dissented from the opinion in that case,, holding that, as it-is
insisted here, there should be a specific charge of a conspiracy
to do something affecting the election of the Federal officer.
I quote this from his opinion "The indictment in this case
charges a conspiracy to induce certain election officers appointed under the laws of Indiana-to commit a crime against
the United States, the crime being the alleged omission by
them to perform certain duties imposed by the laws of that
State respecting elections. But it contains no allegation that
the alleged conspiracy was to affect the election of a member
of congress, which, as said above, appears to me to be essential to bring the offence within the jurisdiction of the court.
If the conspiracy was to affect the election of a state officer,
no offence was committed cognizable in the District Court .of
the United States. If it had any 9ther object than to affect
the election of a member of Congress, it was a matter exclusively for the cogmzance of the state courts.' It seems to

