GERMAN BANK, v. IIITED STATES.
Statement" of the Case.

GERfAN BANK OF MEMPHIS v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
o. 693. Submitted March 30,1893.-Decided April 10, 1893.

The United States cannot be held"liable in the Court of Claims for the
amount of registered bonds which the Register of the Treasury cancels
without authority of law, not being liable for non-feasances, or misfeasances or negligence of its officers.
The only remedy in such case is by appeal to Congress.
The plaintiffs, having been held liable to the owners of bonds so improperly
cancelled as parties to the transaction, are not entitled to be subrogated
to the heirs of the estate in the suit against the United States; since, a
person who invokes the doctrine of subrogation must come into con't
with clean hands.

Tins was a petition by the German Bank of 'emphis,
as
successor of the German National Bank of Memphis, and the
Chemical National Bank of New York, against the United
States, to recover the amount of three registered bonds alleged
to have been wrongfully cancelled by the Register of the
Treasury under the following circumstances
In 1869, one Henry P Woodward died in Shelby County,
Tennessee, leaving a will in which be directed that 'certain
insurance money due his estate should be invested in United
States interest-bearing bonds, with coupons attached, which
coupons were to be given to his wife, Sallie, as they fell due,
for her support and the support and education of her child,
and that when the child-should arrive at the age of 21 years,
the bonds should be divided between the said child and its
mother, equally, one Marcus E. Cochran being appointed sole
executor of the will.
The will was admitted to probate in November, 1869, and
Cochran qualified as executor. Having a balance of insurance
remaining after paying the debts, he invested the same in
three'registered bonds of five thousand dollars each, in which
it was certified that "the United States of America are

OCTOBER TERIf 1892.
Statement -of the Case.

indebted unto M. E. Cochran, executor or assigns, the sum
of five thousand dollars," etc. "This debt is authorized by
act of Congress, approved March 3, 1865, and is transferable
on the books of this office."
Cochran collected the interest on these bonds regularly, and
paid the same to the widow of the testator, as provided in the
will, until May, 1873, when he died. On September 9, one
James A. Anderson, public administrator, was appointed by
the probate court administrator de bonis non of Woodward's"
estatb, duly qualified' as such, and three days thereafter
obtained these bonds from the Union and Planter's Bank of
Memphis, in whose custody they had been, and by which the
interest had been collected and paid over, giving therefor
a receipt as administrator. He subsequently gave another
receipt to the attorney of Mrs. Cochran, as administrator of
her deceased husband.
In December, 1876, Anderson, who had long been a depositor in the German National Bank, and a man. of high standing, took two of these bonds to this bank and requested it to
sell them, saying that he wanted to invest-for a better interest,
that h& could get ten per cent for the money, at the same time
showing a paper from the Treasury Department at Washington, which in some way recognized his authority to transfer
the bonds, but by whom the paper was written-and the exact
terms of it do not appear, no copy of the -same being in evidence. The bank sent the bonds to the Chemical National
Bank of New York by exptess, with a letter directing them
to sell the same and place the proceeds to their credit, adding,
"Judge J. A. Anderson filed the proper papers with the
department, as per memo. enelosed. We do not wish to be
responsible after paying the, funds over here for any irregularity in papers."
On receiving these bonds, the Chemical National Bank
wrote to the Register of the Treasury, notifying him of the
receipt of the bonds from the German National Bank, describing them as "No. 7701, to order M. E. Cochran, executor,
of Memphis, Tenn. 85000 do. No. 6081, to order of M. E.
Cochran, executor, $5000, which said bank request us to sell,

GERMAN BANK -v. UNITED STATES.
,Statement of the Case.

but distinctly state they do not want to be held -responsible
after paying the--funds over for any irregularity in papers,
which I herewith enclose. We desire to. comply with the
wishes -of the German Nat., but do not wish to be responsible for regularity, etc., and therefore refer the case to you.
Please inform.-us what action to take. The certificates are
assigned in-blank by J A. Anderson, admr of- H. P Woodward, deceased, and appear to have been witnessed by a
notary, public, having, his official -seal attached. If you are
willing, we will forward them for registration in -our own
name, as in their present shape thay are not a, good delivery
in this market-."
The Register replied to this, and stated "There is on
file in this office satisfactory-power in favor -of your bank to
transfer the bonds referred to, and a reassignment by your
Mr. Jones as pres't to any - party -purchasing will be recognized, or if preferred new bonds will , be issued to your bank
The bank replied to this
under the present, assignment."
letter, under- date of December 28, 1876, and requested the
Register to issue new bonds in the name of "the Chemical
National Bank of N. Y"
In- January, 1877, Anderson took the third bond to the
Gerrlian National Bank, by which it was transferred to the
Chemical National Bank with similar instructions. The
latter bank transferred the -bond,to. the Treasury Department,
which thereupon issued to the Chemical National Bank three
newbonds, in which it, was certified that "the United States
of America are indebted tothe Chemical National Bank of
New York, or assigns, in the sum of five thousand dollars,"
etc. The Chemical National Bank of New York having thus
obtained title to these bonds, sold the same and transferred
the proceeds, $16,840.60, to the German National Bank of
Memphis, where they were passed to the personal credit:of
said Anderson, drawn out by him from -time to time on big
personal checks, and lost to the beneficiaries by conversion
to his own-use.
The original bonds- had'borne-upon their back a blank form
of assignment, executed by Anderson, with certain -instruc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

tLions, among which were that the execution of the assignment must be witnessed by a public officer, attested by his
official seal, and that "executors, administrators and trustees,
when the stock stands in the name of the persoa they represent, must furnish legal evidence of their official character
to be filed." The regulations of the Treasury Department
at this time required that "in case of death or successorship,
the representative or successor must furnish official evidence
of decease and appointment. An executor or administrator
may assign stock standing in the name of a deceased person.
Where there is more than one legal representative all must
unite in the assignment, unless, by a decree of court or provision of will, some one is designated to dispose of the stock.
If the stock was held by the deceased as a fiduciary, the
letters of administration must be accompanied by an order
of the court authorizing the transfer."
When taken to the German National Bank of Memphis
the blank form of assignment had been filled out, (except
the name of the assignee, for which a blank was left), signed
by Anderson, and executed before a notary public.
In 1872, the widow of said Woodward married Thomas
H. Covington, who died in 1884. Anderson paid her the
interest on the bonds up to 1880, when he failed, and the
payments ceased. During that year a bill was filed in the
equity court by Covington and wife and Henriella P Woodward, minor child of testator, against Anderson, who had
become insolvent, the German National Bank of Memphis,
the Chemical National Bank of New York, and others, defendants, charging Anderson with a breach of trust in the
sale of the bonds and the conversion of the proceeds to his
own use, and the two banks with participating therein by
receiving and selling the bonds charged with notice of the
trust. The final result of this suit after trial in the Chancery
Court of AMremphis, and in the Supreme Court of Tennessee
on appeal, was a decree against the two banks in favor of
the plaintiffs in the sum of $23,211.82, that being the principal and interest of the bonds so converted. Covwngtow v
Anderson, 16 Lea, 310.

GERMAN BAN1K v. UNITED STATES.
Opnion of 'the Court.

Subsequently, the two banks paid the amount of this judgment to a trustee app6inted by the Chancery Court, and on
November 22, 1888, filed a petition in the Treasury Department for the payment of the money here claimed. The petition was referred to the Solicitor of the Treasury, who advised
that the amount for which the bonds were sold should be
paid by the government, but the Secretary of the Treasury
thought the claim presented was not of such a nature as to be
properly adjudicated by him. On March 12, '1889, another
petition was presented to the Treasury Department, which
decided that the government was not liable, and this suit was
begun.
Upon a finding of facts, of which 'the above statement is the
substance, the Court of Claims dismissed the petition, 26 C.
C1. 198, and the claimants appealed to this court.
Mr William S. Flippzn, Mr A. IT Garaud and MT H
J. Mfay for appellants.
Xr Asswtknt Attor.wey GeneraZ 3faury for appellees.
Mp. JusTIco Bizoww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The question in this case is whether the government can be
held liable for the amount of certain registered bonds which
the Register of the Treasury had cancelled without authority
of law, plaintiffs themselves having been held liable to the
owners of the bonds for having been parties to the transaction.
Briefly stated, the facts are that the bonds were originally
issued to "11M.E. Cochran, executor or assigns", that Cochran
having died, one Anderson was appointed administrator de
bon's non, obtained possession of the bonds, took them to
the German National Bank, and requested the bank to sell
them for him, exhibiting a paper from the Treasury Department at Washington to the effect-that, as the successor of
Coci ran in the administration of the estate, he had power to
VOL. cxLvm-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmion of the Court.

transfer them. The bank sent them to the Chemical National
Bank of New York, with a similar request to sell. The
Chemical National Bank transmitted them to the Register of
the Treasury, stating that neither the German National Bank
-nor the Chemical National Bank wished to be responsible for
any irregularities m the papers. In reply, the Register stated
that there was on file in that office satisfactory power in favor
of the bank to transfer the bonds, and subsequently, at the
request of the bank, issued new bonds to the ",Chemical National Bank, New York, or assigns." These bonds were sold,
the proceeds transmitted to the German National Bank at
Memphis, passed to the personal credit of Anderson, and
embezzled by him. Suit was thereupon begun against the
two banks by the heirs of the estate represented by Cochran
and Anderson, upon the theory that, as the bonds ran to "M.
E. Cochran, executor or assigns," the banks were apprised of
the fact that there was a trust of some kind impressed upon
them, which could be ascertained by a reference to the will,
and that they bore the unmistakable brand of the rights of
ownership of oth-rs, without the slightest evidence of claimn of
any character on the part of Anderson.
Having paid the judgment against them, the banls filed this
petition, claiming to be subrogated to the rights of the parties
who had recovered against them, and to hold the government
liable upon the ground that they were induced, by the act and
conduct of the Register of the Treasury, to do what had been
adjudged to be wrong on their part, and on account of which
a decree had been taken against them.
Under these circumstances, are the plaintiffs entitled to
maintain this suit against the government 2 Plaintiffs were
held liable by the Supreme Court of Tennessee to the heirs of
Woodward for the unlawful conversion of the bonds, the
court holding that the banks received the bonds and disposed
of them under circumstances showing that a breach of trust
was meant by Anderson, and under such circumstances as to
put them upon inquiry as to his title to the bonds and the motive .prompting him to offer them for sale. The court held
further that the fact that the bonds were payable to X. E.

GERMAIN BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Cochran, as executor, put them upon inquiry as to whose
estate Anderson was administrator of,; why there was no
assignment upon the bonds, how Anderson .came by them,
by what authority he proposed to dispose of bonds created by
a will when he was not himself the executor, why the bonds
had been kept off the market so long, for whose benefit
Anderson proposed to invest in securities at a greater rate of
interest, and why he should do so when the bonds were a
certain security "These suggestions," said the court, "would
have led at once to an inspection of the records, which would
have discovered that Anderson had no right whatever to manage or control the bonds, and that his purposes were anything
but honest. It was impossible to have read the. bonds, however casually, without discovering thdt there was a trust of
some character 'impressed upon them, which trust could be
ascertained by reference to the will."
Plaintiffs now seek to hold the government liable upon the
ground that the Register of the Treasury participated with
them in such conversion. In other words, it is an attempt on
the part of one wrongdoer, not merely to enforce contribution
from another, but to hold hn liable for The entire amount of
damages occasioned by their joint negligence. It is only upon
the theory that the Register exceeded -his power that tle
plaintiffs have any possible standing. If his conduct in cancelling the original and issuing. the new 'bonds was within the
scope of his authority as Register of the.Treasury, there is no
possible reason for charging him or his principal with liability
Assuming, however, that he was guilty of negligence in reissuing these bonds upon insufficient evidence of the authority of
the holder to demand such reissue, (as to which we express no
opmion,) it was an act of negligence for which the government
is not liable to these plaintiffs. It.fs a well settled rule of law
that the government is not liable f6r the nonfeasances or misfeasances or negligence of its. officers, and that the only remedy to the injured party in such cases is by appeal to Congress.
This rule was applied in the cases of Vh-ted Stares v Mrk,
yatrzek, 9 Wheat. 720, 735, Unied States v. Vanzandt, 11
Wheat. 184, Uniited States v. .Ticholl, 12 Wheat. 505, and

OCTOBER TERM4, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Dox v Postmaster-General, 1 Pet. 318, cases of laches in failing to prosecute delinquent officers within a reasonable time,
in Gibbons v- U'ded States, 8 Wall. 269, to a case of alleged
duress by a military officer, in Jones v Vnited States, 18
Wall. 662, to the negligence of the government in permitting
a dishonest postmaster to remamin office, in Hart v. Unzted
States, 95 U S. 316, to the negligence of an officer of the
United States in permitting the removal of distilled spirits
from a distillery warehouse before the payment of taxes, in
Minturn, v United States, 106 U S. 437, to the unlawful act
of a customs officer in giving up goods without the payment
of duty, in Mofat v Unzted States, 112 U S. 24, to certain
frauds by officers orithe United States in issuing land patents;
and in Robertson v. Sichel, 127 U. S. 507, t~o the negligence of
an officer of the customs in keeping a trunk of a passenger on
the pier instead of sending it to the public store, so that it
was destroyed by fire.
If this be treated as a case of tort, then it is clear that the
government is not liable, not only upon the ground above
stated, but because under the act of Congress conferring jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims, 21 Stat. 505, c. 359, there is
an express exception of cases sounding in tort.
Plaintiffs, however, take the further ground that if, instead
of suing the banks, Covington and his wife and daughter bad
sued in the Court of Claims upon the original bonds, the government could not have shown in defence that the bonds had
been cancelled and reissued to the Ohemical National Bank,
since such cancellation was without authority Therefore they
insist that, having paid these bonds themselves, they are entitled
to be subrogated to the claim of the heirs of the estate, and to
recover in their own names upon these bonds. There are
difficulties, however, in sustaining this position. In the first
place, the plaintiffs themselves had no contract with the government, and if they had, such contract was fully performed
by the issuing of the new bonds tothem. They are not entitled
to be subrogated to the heirs of the estate, since their right of
subrogation arises from certain conduct of theirs which was
adjudged by the Supreme Court of 'Tennessee to be tortious.

