IROGET v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ROGET v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM1 THE COUAT OF CLAIMS.
No. 80. Argued December 7,1892. -Decided

March 6,1893.

The pay of a retired officer of the Navy is fixed by statute at a certain percentage of the active service pay of the grade held bv him at the time
of his retirement: and there is nothing in the act of March 3, 1883, 22
stat. 472, c. 97, to modify this rule.
An officer of the Navy who was retired in the first five years of service
from a rank having longevity pay, but who was continued on active duty
until he had passed into'his second five years of service, is not entitled,
under the act of March 3, 1883, to a greater rate of pay after active service ceased than seventy-five per centum of the pay of the grade or rank
which he held at the time of retirement.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xq, .Robert B. Ltnes, (with whom was Mr John Paul
Jones on the brief,) for appellant.
.ir Attorney Genral for appellee.
MR.

JusricE SHIs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
finding in favor of the United States and dismissing the petition of the claimant, Eugenia A. Roget, executrix of Edward
A. Roget, deceased. Edward A. IRoget was a professor of
mathematics in the United States navy, having been commissioned July 8, 1864, to rank from :Mav 21, 1864. On August
1, of that year, being then sixty-two years of age, he was
placed upon the retired list, in accordance with the act of
Congress approved December 21, 1861, 12 Stat. 329, c. 1,
which contains the following provisions
"That whenever the name of any naval officer now in the
service, or who may hereafter be in the service of the United
States, shall have been borne on the Naval Register forty-five
years, or shall be of the age of sixty-two years, he shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

retired from active service, and his name entered on the retired list of officers of the grade to which.he belonged at the
time of such retirement.
"SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That the President of
the United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to assign
any officer who may be retired under the preceding section of
this act to shore duty, and such officer thus assigned shall
receive the full shore pay of his grade while so employed."
"SEC. 5. And be st further enacted, That all officers retired
under the provisions of this act shall receive the retired pay of
their respective grades as fixed by law"
Under the same act he was continued on active duty until
June 30, 1873.
On July 15, 1870, a naval appropriation act was approved,
(16 Stat. 321, 331, c. 295,) the third section of which contains,
among other provisions, the following
"That from and after the thirtieth day of June, eighteen
hundred and seventy, the annual pay of the officers of the
Navy on the active list shall be as follows
"Professors of mathematics and civil engineers, during the
first five years after date of appointment, when on duty, two
thousand four hundred dollars, on leave or waiting orders,
one thousand five hundred dollars, during the second five
years after such date, when on duty, two thousand seven
hundred dollars, on leave or waiting orders, one thousand
eight hunared dollars, during the third five years after such
date, when on duty, three thousand dollars, on leave or waiting orders, two thousand one hundred dollars., after fifteen
years from such date, when on duty, three thousand five hundred dollars, on leave or waiting orders, two thousand six
hundred dollars."
While performing active service Professor Roget received

the full shore pay of his grade, including the increase after
five years' service at the rate so provided for. -OnJune 30,
1873, he was relieved from active service in accordance with
the naval appropriation act of Iarch 3, 1873, 17 Stat. 547,
c. 230, which provides, in the first section, "that no officer on

IOGM T v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the retired list of the navy shall be employed on active duty
except in time of war."
The same section of that act contains the following provision
"That those officers on the retired list, and those hereafter
retired, who were, or who may be, retired after forty years'
service, or on attaining the age of sLxty-two years, in conformity with section one of the act of December, eighteen
hundred and sixty-one, and its amendments dated June
twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, or those who
were or may be retired from incapacity resulting from long
and faithful service, from wounds or injuries received in the
line of duty, from sickness or exposure therein, shall, after
the passage of this act, be entitled to seventy-five per centum
of the present sea pay of the grade or rank which they held
at the time of their retirement."
From the time Professor Roget was relieved from duty
until November 9, 1887, when he died, he was paid at the
rate of $1800 a year.
It was contended by the claimant that under the naval appropriation act, approved March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 472, c. 97,
her testator should have been credited with the time of his
active service, from May 21, 1864, to March 3, 1873, and
should have received the difference between the pay of a retired professor of mathematics who has been retired within
his first five years of service, and the pay. of such officer who
has been retired within his second five years, or $225 per
annum, from July 1, 1873, to the date of his death, being 14
years and 122 days. She therefore asked for a judgment
against the United States in the sum of $3200. The Court of
Claims, in dismissing the petition, decided that "an officer in
the navy who was retired in the first five years of service
from a rank having longevity pay, but wno was continued on
active duty until he had passed into his second five years
of service, is not entitled, under the act of March 3, 1883, to a
greater rate of pay after active service ceased than seventyfive per centumn of the pay of the grade or rank which he
held at the time of retirement." 24 C. 01. 165.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The portion of the act of March 3, 1883, relied upon by the
claimant is.
as follows
"And all officers of the navy shall be credited with the
actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men
in the regular or volunteer army or navy, or both, and shall
receive all the benefits of such actual service in all respects in
the same -manner as if all said service had been continuous and
in the regular navy in the lowest grade having graduated pay
held by such officer since last entering the service Provmded,
That nothing in this clause shall be so construed as to authorize any change in thu dates of commission or in the relative
rank of such officers ProvidedZ further, That nothing herein
contained shall be so construed as to give any additional pay
to any such officer during the time of his service in the volunteer army or navy"
Prior to the approval of the act containing the foregoing
provisions there had been three statutes operating to affect
the pay of professors of mathematics retired at the age of
sixty-two years, namely, the said acts of 1861, 1870 and 1873.
The first gave authority for the assignment of any retired
officer to shore duty, and provided that such officer thus assigned should receive the full shore pay of his grade while so
employed, the second provided for longevity pay for officers
on the active list, including professors of mathematics and
the third fixed the pay of officers so retired at seventy-five
per centum of the sea pay of the grade or rank which they
held at the time of their retirement. The precise effect of
these acts may be readily seen by a brief examination of certain terms employed in them. By the act of March 3, 1835,
(4 Stat. 756,) professors of mathematics were regarded as being
subject to sea duty, the language used in fixing their pay
being as follows. "When attached to vessels for sea service,
or in a yard, one thousand two hundred dollars." They are
so regarded also by the act of August 31, 1842, (5.Stat. 576, c.
276,) which provides-that they "shall be entitled to live and
mess with the lieutenants of seagoing and receiving vessels;"
and by the act of August 3, 1848, ยง 12, (9 Stat. c. 121, pp.
266, 272,) providing that they "shall perform such duties as

ROGET v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

may be assigned them by order of the Secretary of the Navy
at the Naval School, the Observatory, and on board ships cf
war, in instructing the midshipmen of the navy, or othewise." Though the act of June 1, 1860, sec. 3, (12 Stat. ;
27, c. 67,) declares that "no service shall be regarded as sea

service but such as shall be performed at sea under the ord rs
of a department, and in vessels employed by authority of
law," the same statute, as well as others, in fixing the jay
of professors of mathematics, provided for but one rate of
pay for such officers while on duty It may, therefore, be
considered that a professor of mathematics assigned after his
retirement to shore duty would be entitled. to the highest pay
of his grade while so employed, which would be as well'his
sea pay as his shore pay The grade of an officer in the navy
is his official station, by which are regulated his powers,
duties and pay His pay may be further governed by his
time of service within a grade, either in fact rendered withm
the grade, or constructively performed therein through 'the
force of statutes. That the office of professor of mathematics
is a grade, is recognized by the act of April 17, 1866, sec. 7,
(14 Stat. 38, c. 45,) which proides, "That hereafter no !vacancy in the grade of professor of mathematics in the navy
shall be filled."
The operation of the statutes of 1861, 1870 and 1873, in the
case of Professor Roget was to give him pay during the time
he performed active service, as though he were on the active
list, including the longevity increase provided for by the act
of 1870, and, after his active service ended, to give him
seventy-five per cent of the sea pay, (which was also, in his
case, the shore pay,) proVided for by the act of 1873, attached
to the grade which h3 held at the time of his retirement.
This being unquestionably the legal effect of the acts approved prior to 1883, the single question involved is whether,
under the act of March 3 of that year, he was entitled to have
active service credited in regulating his pay as a retired officer
1o
after his active service ceased.
established,
the
of
the
navy
was
the
retired
list
Ever since
pay of a retired officer, as such, has been fixed by statute at a

