HUP::rREYS v, PERRY.
Syllabus..

believed there was no danger, and seeing nothing in the appearance of the water to suggest danger, pursued that which was
the customary and proper course for boats to pursue in passing
from above to below the line of the bridge It appears from
the findings that the lookout was not confined to one person,
but that several were gathered in the pilot-hoUse, on the lookout for all indications of danger, and all customary guards
and warnings.
We are of opinion that the conclusion of the Circuit Court
was right, and that it would be placing too severe a condem-

nation on the conduct of the pilots in charge of the boats, to
say that their error of judgment, their dependence on the
appearance of the stream, and their relianc upon the duty
of the defendants to place suitable buoys or other warnings,
was such contributory negligence as would relieve the defendants from liability for the results of their almost confessed,
and certainly undoubted, negligence. The udgnent as afflrined.

1UMTPHREYS v. FERRY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINQIS.
No. 167.

Argued and submitted March 23,,24, 1893.-Decided April 10, 1893.

A travelling salesman for a jewelry firm bought a passenger ticket for a
passage on a railroad, and presented a trunk to be checked to the place
of his destination, without mformng the agent of the company that the
trunk contained jewelry, which it did, and without being inquired of by
the agent as to what it contained. He paid a charge for overweight as
personal baggage, and the trunk was checked. It was of a dark color,
iron bound, and of the kind known as a jeweler's trunk. It had been a
practice for jewelry merchants to send out agents with trunks filled with
goods, the 'trunks being of similar, character-to the one in question, and,
as a rule, they were checked as personal baggage.. But there was no evidence tending to show that the railroad companies, or their agents, knew
what the trunks contained. Held,
(1) There was no evidence showing, or-tending to show, that-the agent

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
of the railroad had any actual knowledge of the contents of
trunk;
,
(2) There was no evidence from which it could fairly be said that
agent had reason to believe that the trunk contained 3ewelry,
(3) The agent was not required to inquire as to the contents of
trunk, so presented as personal baggage;
(4) The company was not liable for the loss of the contents of
trunkThe cases on the subject, reviewed.

the
the
the
the

TH. case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr Richard S. uthill, (with whom was Mr Fedemen
Bale on the brief,) for appellees.
.f r Wells -

C.

Blodget, for appellants, submitted on his brief.

Mr.i. JUsTicE BLAToFFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an intervening petition, filed IMay 28, 1886, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois, by John H. Perry, Arthur J Perry, James K. Perry
and Frank A. Perry, copartners under the firm name of Perry
Brothers, in the suit pending in said court, of the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company against the Central
Trust Company of New York and others, in which suit Solon
Humphreys and Thomas E. Tutt had been appointed receivers
of said railway
The intervening petition was filed against the receivers by
leave of the court. It sets forth that the principal office of the
firm of the petitioners is at Chicago, that on January 30, 1885,
Arthur J Perry, one of the firm, in carrying on its business,
bought and paid for a ticket for his passage from Springfield,
Illinois, to Petersburg, Illinois, over and upon the railroad of
the company running between those, two places, and at the
same time checked with the company a trunk containing
jewelry, watches and merchandise of the firm, such as was
necessary for him to take with him in prosecuting the business of the firm, and such as is usually taken as baggage by
travelling salesmen in prosecuting business similar to that of

HUMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

the petitioners, for transportation by the company from
Springfield to Petersburg, that for the transportation of
the trunk he paid the company a sum of money additional
to that which he had already paid for his ticket; that thereupon he entered the coach of the company, and the trunk
was placed by its agents in the baggage-car of the- company
en route for Petersburg, that shortly before reaching that
place, by the negligence and carelessness of the company in
constructing and repairing its roadbed and track, and in running that train, the cars containing said Arthur J Perry and
said trunkwere derailed, and the baggage-car containing the
trunk was overturned and rolled down an embankment, and
at the foot thereof, by the negligence and carelessness of the
company in using in the car ar. unsafe, improper and dan-.
gerous kind of stove, and in having said stove unsecured or
improperly secured, the baggage-car caught on. -fire. and was
totally consumed, together with said trunk, and the watches,
jewelry and merchandise of the petitioners in the trunk were
almost totally destroyed, that the value of the trunk and its
contents was $9818.46, that the petitioners recovered from
the debris of the baggage-car a part of the merchandise, so
that their loss amounts to $9218.46, that the receivers were
appointed May 29, 1884, and had possession of and were operating said road from Springfield to Petersburg at the time of
the loss of the trunk, and that they had refused to allow the
claim of the petitioners. The prayer of the petition is that
the receivers answer the claim for damages.
The answer of the receivers sets forth that at the time in
question they were not prepared to carry articles of jewelry
and watches as baggage, and did not undertake or advertise
themselves to the public as ready or willing to transport the
same, -that by the rules of the receivers, then in force and
well known to the intervenors, the agents and servants of the
receivers were not allowed to take trunks containing jewelry,
watches and valuable merchandise as baggage, that on January 30, 1885, Arthur J Perry, one of the intervenors, presented to the agent of the receivers, at Springfield, Illinois, the
trunk in question and demanded a check therefor, and- the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmion of the Court.

receivers then and there undertook to carry the trunk as
containing only the personal baggage of said Perry, that he
then and there wrongfully concealed from the said agent the
fact that the trunk contained jewelry, watches or valuable
merchandise, and by such wrongful conduct and fraudulent
concealment of the contents of the trunk and their, value,
secured a check for it from the agent as baggage; that,
because itwas so checked, itwas placed by the agent in a
baggage-car and transported as ordinary baggage by the
receivers over said line of road, that, before reaching Petersburg, on said day, the train containing the baggage-car in
which the trunk had been placed became derailed, without fault
or negligence on the part of the receivers or their agents or
servants, and that, without any such fault or negligence, the
baggage-car caught fire after being so derailed, and'a portion
of the contents of the trunk, so wrongfully and fraudulently
shipped as. baggage, was destroyed. The answer -denies that
the intprvenors are entitled to any relief.
On June 30, 1886, the court made an order referring the
intervening petition to E. B. Sherman "to take proof and
report the same to the court." Mr. Sherman was one of the
masters in chancery of the court. He took proofs and made
a report to the court, accompanied by the proofs, and filed
October 23, 1888. In his report, be recites the. order of reference as directing hun to take evidence and report to the court
"with his findings in the premises." IHe did report the evidence and also findings by him both of fact and of law
The receivers excepted to the report because (1) the findings
were contrary to the evidence, (2) the findings were contrary
to laws (3) the findings were contrary-to the law and the evidence, (1)the finding should have been that the intervening
petition be dismissed, (5)the intervenors were not entitled to
the relief prayed for, and (6) the amount found by the master
The
was excessive and not warranted by the testinony.
master found that the intervenors were entitled to recover
from the receivers $-7287.87, with costs. There was no exception to the fact that the master had found the facts and the
]aw, or had departed from the order c reference, and neither

RUMPHIEYS 'v-PERRY.
Opinion of -theCourt.

of the parties nor the court took any objection in that
respect.'
The case was heard before the Circuit Court, held by Judge
Gresham, 39 Fed. Rep. 4-17, on the report of the master and
the exceptions thereto, and a decree was made, July 29, 1889,
overruling the, exceptions, confirming the-report of the master,
and decreeing in favor of the mtervenors for $7287.87, and
for the payment of that sum to them by the receivers, with
costs, and $150 for master's fees. From this decree the receivers have appealed.
On January 30, -1885, Arthur J Perry, a member of the
intervenors' firm, was in Springfield,, Illinois, with a trunk of
j6Nvelry containing a stock of goods from which he was to
make sales and deliveries to their customers. He there bought
a passage ticket from the agent: of' the receivers, for his transportation to Petersburg, on their road, and presented his trunk
to be checked to Petersburg as his personal baggage. The
trunk was of a dark color, iron bound, weighed 250- pounds,
and as to size was described in the evidence as being "what a
sample-man would call snall." The agent gave hnma check
for the trunk and collected from him 25 cents on account of
its extra weight, only 150 pounds of personal baggage being
carried free for each passenger. Nothing was said.-to the
agent by Perry concerning the contents of the trunk, nor did
he make any inquiries of Perry in regard to its contents.
When the train had reached a point a few miles from Petersburg, the car in which the trunk was being conveyed was
thrown from the track and was ignited from the fire in a stove
on board, and the trunk and contentsi to the value of $7287.87,
were destroyed. There was evidence tending to show that the
stove was cracked and that its door was without a latch or
other fastening. As to the cause of the derailment, there
was evidence tending -to show that the night was cold, and
that, as the train was rounding a curve, a rail broke under it.
There was also evidence tending to sho~w that many of the
'The master states that a-stipulation was made before him by the parties
that he should report'his findings in the-premises, though no such stipulation is found in the record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

cross-ties m the track, at the place of the accident, were so
decayed that they did not firmly hold the spikes, and that the
disaster was caused by the rails spreading. The master, in his
report, attributed it to the latter cause, and found that the
condition of the track was so unsafe that the receivers were
presumed to have known of its condition. He found as a
fact, however, that the condition of the track had been improved by the receivers, and at the time of the accident was
better than when they were appointed.
There was evidence tending to show that it was, and had
been for a number of years, a practice among the wholesale
jewelry merchants of Chicago and other places to send out
agents or members of their firms among their country customers, with trunks filled with goods, and that such agents
had been accustomed to sell and deliver goods from the stocks
thus carried about. The evidence tended to show that such
stocks of goods were generally -carried in trunks similar in
character to the one used by Perry, and that as a rule they
had been checked as personal baggage. But there was -no
evidence tending to show that the railroad companies or their
agents knew what the trunks contained, and John H. Perry,
one of the firm, who testified as to what had been the custom,
also testified that he did not know of any railroad in the
country that he could go to and say, "Here is a trunk contaming $10,000 worth of jewelry, I want a check," and get
a check for the trunk. No witness testified that, after the
appointment of the receivers, and before the occurrence of this
loss, he had received a check over the Wabash, St. Louis and
Pacific Railway for a trunk containing jewelry, nor was
there any evidence tending to show that the receivers'knew
of any custom under which trunks containing stocks of
jewelry were checked as personal baggage.
Arthur J Perry, in his testimony, gave the following
evidence- as to the trunk in question. "Q. What kind of
a trunk was that2 A. It was a heavy aron trunk-iroLbound, dark trunk, small size. Q. Had it any particular
designation that vou know of '? A. It is a trunk that we used
in our business, is about all, very small and heavy Q. The

HUMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opinon of the Court.

kind of a trunk known as a jeweler's trunk, is it? A. Commonly used and known as a jeweler's trunk."
He also testified as follows "Q. Are you acquainted with
the wholesale and retail jewelry trade as conducted in Chicago 2
A. Since 1880. Q. Just state how- the wholesale jewelers
in Chicago conduct their business with the outlying towns
with which they have trade. A. The majority of them conduct it the same as we do, that is, they put goods in trunks
and send them with men on-the road. Q. They send travelling men or members of the firm with a jeweler's stock in
a trunk2 A. Yes, sir. Q. And go to different towns and
sell from that trunk 2 A. Yes, sell, deliver and bill. Q.
And, to your knowledge, that has been the custom-since 18802
A. My knowledge goes further back than that. Q. How far
beyond2 A. Since 1873. Q. Is that their manner in conducting business now?, A. Yes, sir. Q. Did I understand
you to say you sell by samples? A. It isn't the rule, there
are a few that do it-not one in ten. Q. They send a stock
of jewelry and sell from that stock 2 A. Yes, sir, they sell
from the stock. Q. And what is the usage in regard to the
transportation of' these jewelry trunks2 A. We check them
the same as other sample trunks. Q. Check as baggage?
A. Yes, they allow us, as commercial baggage- they allow
us 200 pounds when we have a thousand-mile ticket, when
we have a local ticket they allow us 15.0 pounds, and we have
to pay for all over that. Q. They have been carried as baggage and checked as baggage since when 2 A. Since 1873.
Q. Had you travelled over this road before and carried your
trunk in the same manner 2 A. I had. Q. Do you know
of others transacting the same'kind of business 2 A. Yes,
sir, met them in Springfield many times, and at different
points on the road, it is a common occurrence. Q. Was it or
not the common and invariable usage, so far as you know 2
A. Yes, sir, that is the way the business is conducted." On
cross-examination he testified as follows "Q. You say that
was a small trunk 2 A. Yes, sir. Q. What was its color2
A. A dark trunk - a black or gray Q. W s it a small trunk
or an ordinary size trunk 9 A. It was a small trunk for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

weight of it, and what sample-men would call a small
trunk."
Another witness, Theodore Kearney, testified as follows
"Q. Are you familiar with the custom or usage throughout
the United States of selling goods at wholesale 2 A. Yes,
sir. Q. By travelling men 2 A. Yes. sir. Q. State what
that usage has been for that time. A. The usual custom is
to carry the stock of goods of various values, according to
the class of the house, and sell from that stock to the customers. It is the universal custom. Q. What proportion of
the dealing in jewelry is done in that manner 2 A. I think
nine-tenths in the jobbing trade. Q. And how is this jewelry
carried from place to place 2 A. Carried as baggage- trunks
checked as baggage, carried in compartments made in the
trunk for that particular purpose. Q. What kind of trunks
are they carried in A. What is known as the Crouch and
Fitzgerald trunks -wooden trunks. I thTnk they are made
for that express purpose - almost universally made and used
for that purpose. Q. Iron bound 2 A. Iron strapped, not
bound. Properly, iron cornersand strips covered by three or
four strips in various ways."
John H. Perry, one of the intervenors, testified as follows
"Q. I will ask you if you are fanjiliar with the usages and
customs of the wholesale and jobbing jewelers in reference to
selling their goods. A. To a fair extent I am. Q. How are
they sold 2 A. Our goods have been sold in that way Q.
How2 A. Sold by travelling men from trunks on the road,
stock carried by travelling men and delivered as the sales were
made and bills sent in to the house. Q. How are these trunks
transported from place to place 2 A. Checked as baggage."
The same witness also testified that some railroads had refused
to receive and check such trunks unless they were given indemnifying bonds. On cross-examination, he testified as follows "Q. Mr. Perry, do you know of any railroad in this
country that you could go to with a trunk and say, 'Here is a
trunk containing $10,000 worth of jewelry -I want a check,'
and get a check for it 2 A. I am not acquainted with any
such road.. Q. You don't know of any such road2 A. No,

HURTMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opinion" of the Court.

sir."

On his redirect examination, he testified as follows

"Q. You said you didn't know of any road that would receive
a trunk if a man would say it contained $10,000 worth of
jewelry Did you ever know of a railroad refusing to check
a jewelry trunk? A. No. I did not?'
J. W Patterson, the baggage agent of the receivers at
Springfield, testified as follows "Q. What business were you
engaged in during the time you have lived in Springfield 2
A. Station baggageman for the Wabash. Q. Were you engaged in that business on the 30th of January, 1885 2 A. Yes,
sir. Q. Did you check a trunk on that day from Springfield
to Petersburg? A. Yes, sir, that is, I checked a piece of
baggage, couldn't say it was a trunk. Q. Do you know the
number of that check 2 A. Yes, sir. Q. What is it2 A. It
is 10,763. Q. Do you know Mr. Perry 2 A. No, sir, not
that I know of; don't know him by name, might know him
if I saw the gentleman. Q. Was that the only piece of baggage checked for Petersburg that day 2 A. Yes, sir. Q. That
A. Yes, sir; evening train, 2.10.
was for the evening train
Q. Did you know whether or not at the time you checked this
trunk or piece of baggage that it contained jewelry 2 A. No,
Sir, I did not know what it contained. Q. Was it checked
in the ordinary way that baggage is checked2 A. Yes, sir."
On cross-examination, the same'witness testified as follows"Q. When you see a trunk, a heavy trunk, heavily iron bound,
with heavy iron corners and iron clasps, iron along the corners
and iron bandages- all around it and two or three strong locks
in front, what kind of baggage would you suppose to be in
the trunk 2 A. Well; we couldn't suppose what was in the'
trunk. Q. You wouldn't suppose that contained ordinary
wearing apparel, would you - a trunk of that sort? A. Well,
I don't know as I would. Q. Are not trunks of that description trunks that are carried by commercial travellers generally 2
A. Bless you, they carry all kinds, sizes and sorts. Q. Don't
they carry that kind.of trunk 2 A. Yes, sir, lots of that kind
of trunks on the road. Q. Those are not the trunks ordinarily
used by travellers carrying wearing apparel 2 A. No, but
there is -once in a while you find a castaway sample trunk

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that is picked up, parties carrying them, but it is not very
often the case. Q. What do you mean by sample trunks2
What is a sample trunk 9 A. What we call - that is, a trunk
that contains different kinds of samples. Q. gHow do you
know when you see them2 A. Well, we don't know them
without some party opens the trunk. Q. When you see a
trunk of tnat sort you naturally suppose it has samples in it 2
A. Yes, sir. Q. They are made much stronger than ordinary
trunks, are they not - different build 2 A. Yes, sir, different
built trunk. Q. Well known to all baggagemen and railroad
men as sample trunks, are they not 9 A. Yes, sir. Q. You
know, as a matter of fact, do you not, that jewelry firms have
transported their stock of jewelry in trunks of that make 2
A. Yes, sir. Q. Passing over your lines daily2 A. Yes, sir.
Q. Checked as ordinary baggage 2 A. Yes, sir, at that time,
but not now
"Q. Don't you know, from your experience of 11 vears, if a
trunk containing jewelry came into your possession and you
handled it you would be able to tell what was in it2 A. No,
sir; and nobody else. Q. If a trunk came into your possession
of that sort, at least its character is so well known to you, you
would make inquiry about it, wouldn't you? A. Of course,
once in a while, we do not every time.
"Q. You know at that time there were a great many
jewelry trunks on the road, and had been previous to that
time, in carrying stocks of jewelry in trunks2 A. Couldn't
say a great many, because I never saw but very few of them,
couldn't see what they contained. Q. You know, as a general
thing, that jewelers travel on the road with their stocks, don't
you? A. Yes, sir. Q. They transported their goods from
town to town in trunks 2 A. Yes, sir. Q. And sold from
their trunks? A. I couldn't say about that, don't know
anything about that-checked the baggage." On redirect
examination, he testified "Q. As a fact, from your knowledge of trunks, could you tell from looking at that trunk that
it contained jewelry? A. I could not."

HUMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court said, in its opinion, that the nature and
contents of the trunk were not expressly disclosed to the agent
at Springfield, that he made no inquiries on that subject,
that the trunk was 3 by 2J feet, iron bound, weighed 250
pounds, and was known in the trade and to baggagemen as
a jeweler's or commercial traveller's trunk, that the evidence
showed that the intervenors and other merchants of the same
class, then and prior thereto, sold their goods, in the main,
directly from trunks transported from place to place over
railroads, and that this road had previously and frequently
checked .and carried such trunks for the intervenors and
others as personal baggage. The opifiion then said "If the
station agent did not know that the trunk contained jewelry,
he had reason to believe it did. He received it, knowing that
Perry was not entitled to have it carried as personal baggage.
The agent did not believe the trunk contained wearing
apparel only 'It is plain from the evidence that he recognized it as a jeweler's trunk, and that he understood it contained-a stock of jewelry Be was not, therefore, deceived,
and the receivers were not defrauded. Having checked the
trunk by their agent as personal baggage, knowing or having
reason to believe that it contained jewelry, the receivers
became bound to safely transport it to its destination, which
they did not do, and they aro liable for the damages that
resulted from a breach of the contract. They sustained to
the trunk and its contents the relation of a carrier, and they
are liable for the property destroyed by their negligence, just
as if the trunk had contained nothing but wearing apparel, or
as if they had undertaken to carry it as freight."
The receivers contend that the Circuit Court erred in basing
its judgment, either wholly or in part, on the assumption
that the baggage agent at Springfield had actual knowledge
of what the trunk contained, and that he knew, or had reasou
to believe, that it contained a stock of jewelry
There is no evidence showing or tending to show, that the
baggage agent had any actual knowledge of the contents 9f
the trunk. Arthur J Perry did not suggest that he either
told the agent what the trunk contained or opened it in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Opinion of the Court.

agent's presence. He testified to no fact from which the
inference could be drawn that the agent had actual knowledge
that the trunk contained a stock of jewelry Patterson, the
agent, testified expressly that at the time he checked the
trunk he did not know what it contained. The master states
in his report that Perry did not disclose the character of the
contents of the.trunk, or say anything in regard thereto, but
simply presented the trunk, as had been customary with him
and other salesmen, to be received and checked as ordinary
baggage, as it had been customary for agents to do on this
and other roads, and the court said, in its opinion, that the
nature and contents of the trunk were not expressly disclosed
to the agent, and that he made no inquiries on that subject.
It is clear, therefore, that the liability of the receivers cannot
be founded on the proposition that the agent had actual
knowledge of what the trunk contained.
It is further contended that the Circuit Court erred in holding that the agent ought to have known what was in the
trunki by its external appearance. The Circuit Court says, in
its opinion, that it is plain, from the evidence, that the agent
recognized the trunk as a jeweller's trunk and understood that
it contained a stock of jewelry, and that, their agent having
checked the trunk as personal baggage, knowing, or having
reason to believe, that it contained jewelry, the receivers
became bound to transport it safely to its destination.
Is there any evidence in the case from which it can fairly
be said that the agent had reason to believe that the trunk
contained jewelry 9 It is clear that Perry, in purchasing a
ticket for a passenger train, and then tendering his trunk to
the agent to be checked, tendered it as containing his-personal
baggage. The agent was not informed to- the contrary by
Mr. Perry or by any other person. As the agent did not
know what the contents were, the allegation that he recognized
the-trunk'as a jeweller's trunk, and understood that it contamed a stock of jewelry, necessarily implies that-such recognition and understanding must have arisen from the outwardappearance of the trunk. The testimony on that subject is as
"Q,. What kind of[ aArthur 5 Perry testified
fcllows
trunk was that 2 A. It was a heavy iron trunk- iron-bound.

HUMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opinion of the- Court.

dark trunk, small size.

Q. Had i any particular designation

that you know.of 2 A. It is a trunk that we used m our
business, is about all, very small and heavy. Q. The kind of
a trunk known as a jeweller's trunk, is it 2 A. Commonly
used and known as a jeweller's trunk." He also said,'on crossexamination "Q. You say that-was a small trunk 2 A. Yes,
sir. Q. What was its color 2 A. A dark trunk, a black or
gray Q. Was it a small trunk, or an ordinary-sized trunk 2
A. It was a small trunk for the weight of it, and what sample-men would call a small trunk." That is all the testimony
that was given as to the sizej shape or appearance of the
trunk.
Kearney, a witness for the intervenors, testified as follows,
as to the kind of trunk generally carried by travelling men in
the jewelry: trade "Q. Are you familiar-with the custom or
usage throughout the United States of selling goods at wholesale2 A. Yes, sir. Q. By travelling men? A. Yes, sir.
Q. State what that usage has been for that time. A. The
usual custom is to carry the.stock of goods of various values,
according to the class of the house, and-sell from that stock
to the customers. It is the, universal custom. Q. What proportion of the dealing m ,jewelry is done in that manner2
A. I think nine-tenths in the jobbing trade. Q. And how
is this jewelry carried from place- to place 2 A. Carried as
baggage -trunks checked as baggage, carried in compaxtments made in the trunk for that particular purpose. Q.
What kind of trunks are they carried- ir. A. What is known
as the Grouch and Fitzgerald trunks- wooden -trunks. I
think they are made for that express .purpose -almost
universally made and used for that purpose. Q. Iron bound 2
A. Iron strapped, not bound. Properly, iron corners and
strips covered by three or four strips in various ways."
Patterson, the baggage agent at Springfield, testified that
he checked a piece of baggage on the day in question, from
Springfield to Petersburg, and he said, on cross-examination,
that he had no particular recollection about the trunk of
Perry, and that he (lid not recollect Perry
The evidence, therefore, is, that the trunk which Perry
delivered to be checked as his personal baggage was a wooden

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

trunk, of dark colo, iron bound, heavy for its size, and in size
what a sample-man would call small, and the question arises,
on these facts, whether the agent was bound to know, or to be
presumed to know, that such a trunk contained a stock of
jewelry If he was, it must be presumed, contrary to the
positive evidence, that he could tell what was in the trunk by
looking at it or handling it, and this, notwithstanding the agent
testified as follows, on cross-examination "Q. Don't you know,
from your experience of 11 years, if a trunk containing jewelry
came into your possession and you handled it you would be
able to tell what was in it 2 A. No, sir, and nobody else."
The hypothetical trunk put to Patterson on cross-examination was described as a trunk with heavy iron corners and iron
clasps, iron along the corners and iron bandages all around it,
and two or three strong locks in front. That hypothetical
trunk does not appear to be such a trunk as Perry delivered
to the agent.
Perry, as a passenger on a passenger train, was bound to act
in good faith in dealing with the carrier. He presented the
trunk to the baggage agent as containing his personal baggage
and got a check for it as such, and, that being so, he cannot
recover for the loss of a stock of jewelry contained in it. No
circumstances occurred, according to the evidence, which required the baggage agent to make inquiries as to the contents
of the trunk, so presented as personal baggage. The presentation of the trunk, under the circumstances, amounted to a
representation that its contents were personal baggage. The
fact that Perry and other persons, on other occasions, had
obtained, on passenger tickets, checks from other railroad companies for trunks containing merchandise, by representing them
as containing personal baggage; furnishes no good reason for
permitting a recovery in the present case. There is Po evidence to show that, on the occasions when Perry and other
travellers received checks, on passenger tickets, for trunks contaming jewelry, the carrier knew what were the contents of
the trunxs. The testimony is that John H. Perry did not know
of a railroad company which would receive and check a-trunk
as a passenger's baggage, which was filled with valuable jewelry

HUMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, the trunk was offered as containing the
personal baggage of a passenger, the passenger did not inform
the baggage agent as to the actual contents of the trunk, the
agent did not know what the trunk contained, there is no
evidence that any agent of the receivers had theretofore
received and checked a trunk as the personal baggage of a
passenger, knowing that it contained a stock of jewelry, and
it does not appear that any railroad company would issue a
check to a passenger for a trunk, if previously informed that
the trunk contained a valuable stock of jewelry
The 25 cents extra paid by Mr. Perry on account of the
weight of the trunk, was paid merely for the overweight, and
not at all in respect of the contents of'the trunk. It was paid
for so much overweight of personal baggage.
It has long been the law that the principle which governs
the compensation of carriers is that they are to be paid in proportion to the risk they assume. So long ago as the case of
Gibbon v. Paynton, 4 Burrow, 2298, in 1769, it was held, in
the King's Bench, Lord Mansfield delivering the opinion, that
a bailee was only obliged to keep goods with as much diligence
and caution as he would keep his own, but that a carrier, in
respect of the premium he was to receive, ran the risk of them,
and must make good the loss, though it happen without any
fault m him, the reward making him answerable for their safe
delivery, that his warranty and insurance were in respect of
the reward he was to receive, and that the reward ought to
be proportionable to the risk. In that case, the sum of £100
was hidden in some hay in an old nail. bag and sent by a coach
and lost. The carrier had not been apprised that there was
money in the bag. The same principle was applied in Bat8on
v. Donovan, 4 B. & Ald. 21, in 1820, where it was held that a
carrier was not liable for bank-notes contained in a parcel, when
he had not been informed of the contents of the parcel.
This principle is commented on in Story o.n Bailments, 9th
ed., § 565, where it is said "It is the duty of every person
sending goods by a carrier to make use of no fraud or artifice
to deceive him, whereby his risk is increased, or his care and
diligence may be lessened. And if there is any such fraud or
VOL. cxLvm-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opin ion of the Court.

unfair concealment, it will exempt the carrier from responsibility under the contract, or, more properly speaking, it will
make the contract a nullity"
There is a uniform series of cases on this principle, in the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. In Jordan v. Fall
River Railroad,5 Gush. 69, it was laid down that a common
carrier of passengers was not responsible for money included
in the baggage of a passenger, beyond the amount which a
prudent person would deem proper and necessary for travelling expenses and personal use, or intended for other persons,
unless the loss was occasioned by the gross negligence of the
carrier or his servants.
In Collins v. Boston & .2faneRailroad,10 Gush. 506, it was
held that the term "baggage," for which passenger carriers
were responsible, did not include articles of merchandise not
intended for personal use, and that a carrier was not liable
for the loss of -merchandise sent by a passenger train, by a
person who expected to go himself in the same train, but did
not, the goods having been lost without any gross negligence
in the carrier or any conversion by him.
In Stimson v. Connecticut River Railroad,98 Mass. 83, it
was held that a railroad company -was not liable to either
owner or agent, on its ordinary contract of transportation of
a passenger, for losing a valise delivered into its charge as his
personal luggage, but which contained only samples of merchandise, and, with its contents, was owned by a trader whose
travelling agent the passenger was, to sell such goods by
sample, nor in tort for the loss, without proof of gross
negligence.
In Ailing v Boston & Albany Railroad,126 Mass. 121, the
above cases in 5 Gush., 10 Gush. and 98 Mass. were cited and
applied, and it was held that if a passenger delivered to a railroad
company a trunk containing samples of merchandise, belonging to a third person, whose agent be was, to be transported
to a place for which the agent had a ticket, the only contract
entered into was for the transportation of the personal baggage of the agent, and the company was not liable in contract
to the owner of the trunk for its loss;.nor in tort, except for

HUMPTHREYS v. PEkRY.
Opinion of -the Court.

gross negligence, and that evidence that a large part of the
company's business consisted in transporting passengers known
as commercial travellers, with trunks like the one lost, contaming merchandise, that such trunks were known as sample
trunks and were of special construction, and. that such travellers purchased tickets for the ordinary passenger trains, and
received checks for their trunks, and were transported for the
price of the tickets, was immaterial.
In Blumantle v Fitchbur .Railroad,.127Mass. 322, 326, it
was held that evidence that a passenger delivered to the baggage-master of a railroad corporation a-package of merchandise
and received a check for it on showing his passenger ticket, that
the baggage-master knew it was merchandise, and .that other
passengers had similar packages, would not warrant a jury in
finding that the corporation agreed to transport the merchandise, or became liable for it as a common carrier, in the absence
of evidence of an agreement that the merchandise shouldbe
carried as freight, or that the baggage-master had authority
to-receive freight to be carried on a passenger train, or to bind
the corporation to carry merchandise as personal baggage:
In the opinion of the court, delivered by Chief Justice Gray,
the earlier Massachusetts. cases, and other; cases, English and
American, were. cited, and it.was said., "In the case at bar
the plaintiff offered and delivered the.bundles as his personal
baggage and requested that they might be checked, as such-;
and the. baggage-master gave -hun, checks for them. accordingly, as he was bound to do for personal baggage of passengers by-the St. of 1874, c. 372, see, .136. There was no evidence that either the plaintiff or the baggage-master agreed
or intended that they -should be carried as freight, or that the
baggage-master had, any authority to, xeceive freight on ,a
passenger tram, or to bind the corporation to. carry mer.han:
dise, as personal, baggage. The case cannot be distinguished
in principle from the previous decisions of, this -court,.already
cited. Evidence- tending to show that the baggage-master
knew or supposed the bundles to contain merchandise i or that
other passengers had similar -bundles, would not -warrant the
jury in finding that the defendant agreed to transport the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff's merchandise or become liable therefor as a common
carrier."
In Hawkins v hZofman, 6 Hill, 586, it was held that the
usual contract of a carrier of passengers included an undertaking to receive and transport their baggage, though notbing
was said about it, that if it was- lost, even without the fault
9f the carrier, he was responsible, bub that the term "baggae" in such case did not embrace samples of merchandise
carried by the passenger in a trunk, with a view of enabling
him to make bargains for the sale of goods.
In Beyfast & . Railway v -Yeys, 9 H. L. Cas. 556, a railway
passenger, with'knowledge that the company, although allowing each passenger to carry free of charge a certain amount
of luggage, required all merchandise to be paid for, took with
him, as if it was personal luggage, a case of merchandise, and
did not pay for it as such, and it was held that no contract
whatever touching the same arose between him and the company, and that, therefore, on the merchandise being lost, he
was not entitled to recover the value of it from the company
In Cahill v .ondon & 3Tort/western Railway, 10 C. B.
(N. S.) 154, in the Court of Common Pleas, where a railway
company was accustomed to allow each passenger to take
with him his ordinary luggage, not exceeding a given weight,
without any charge for the carriage of it, a passenger took
with him as luggage a box containing only merchandise, but
not exceeding in weight the limit prescribed for personal
luggage. He gave no information to the compan V's servants
as to the contents of the box, nor did they inquire, although the
word "glass" was written on the box in large letters. In an
action to recover against the company for the loss of the box,
it was held that, inasmuch as it contained only merchandise,
and not personal luggage, there was no contract on the part of
the company to carry it, and the company was not liable for
the loss. That decision was affirmed in the Exchequer Chamber, 13 C. B. (N. S.) 818.
In Xich. Central -Rail'oad v Carrow, 73 Illinois, 348, a
passenger on a railroad had brought to the depot a trunk which

HUMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opnon of the Court.

contained costly jewelry, gave no notice of its contents, and
had it checked as ordinary baggage, and there was nothing
about the trunk indicating its contents. It was consumed by
fire while being carried, the company not being guilty of gross
negligence, and it was held that the company was not liable
for the contents of the trunk. It was further held, that a carrier of passengers is not bound to inquire as to the contents
of a trunk delivered to the carrier as ordinary baggage, such
as is usually carried by travellers, even if the same is of considerable weight, but may rely upon the representation, arising by implication, that the trunk contains nothing more than
baggage, that it is the duty of a passenger having valuable
merchandise in his trunk or valise, and desiring its transportation, to disclose to the carrier the nature and value of the
contents, that, if the carrier then chooses to treat it as baggage, without extra compensation, the liability of the carrier
will attach, but not otherwise, and that where a person,
under the pretence of having baggage transported, places in
the hands of the agents of a railroad company merchandise,
jewelry and other valuables, without notifying them of the
character and ..value of the same, he practises a fraud upon
the company which will prevent his recovery in case of a loss,
except it occurs through gross negligence.
In Haznes v Chwago, St. PauZ &c. Railway, 29 Minnesota.,
160, it was held that a carrier of passengers for hire was
bound only to carry their "personal baggage", that, if a
passenger delivered to the carrier as baggage a trunk or valise
containing merchandise, not his personal baggage, of which
fact the carrier had no notice, the carrier, in the absence of
gross negligence, would not be liable for its loss, and that the
carrier was not bound to inquire, in such a case, as to the
nature of the property, but had a right to assume that it consisted only of the personal baggage of. the passenger.
In Pftster v. Central Paific Railroad,70 California, 169,
it was held that a railroad ticket entitling the purchaser to
transportation in the first-class passenger coaches of the seller
between the points, indicated thereon, gave the purchaser the
right to have his luggage, not exceeding the quantity specified

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

in the ticket,-transported at the same time free of charge, but
that it did not give him the right-to transport, either in his
own charge or-that of the railroad company, any merchandise
or property not included in the term " luggage"In the present case, there is no allegation in the intervening
petition of any gross negligence in the receivers, nor does the
evidence make out any
Various cases are cited on the part of the intervenors, but
either we do not concur in the views expressed in them, or
they are distinguishable from the present case. Thus, in
Zuter v Aficlagan Central Railroad 1 Bissell, 35, it was said
by Judge Drummond, in a cnarge to a jury, that, if. the railroad company knew that immigrants, like the plaintiff, were
in the habit of putting valuable articles and money among
their household goods, and from such knowledge might have
inferred that the box of the plaintiff might contain money,
then it became the duty of the company to make inquiry in
order to, relieve itself from liability But we do not think
that view is sound.
In .ANinter v Pac?,§c Railroad; 41 Missouri, 503, the merchandise in question was fully exposed, and it was known to
the railroad company's agent what it was.
In Hannibal Railroad v. Swift; 12 Wall. 262, it was held
by this court that where a railroad company received for
transportation, in cars which accompanied its passenger trains,
property of a passenger, other than his baggage, in relation to
which no fraud or concealment was attempted or practised
upon its employes, it must be considered to have assumed, with
reference to that property, the liability of a common carrier
of merchandise. But that is notthe present case.
So, also, the case of Stoneman v Ee Railway, 52 N. Y
429, was one- where a carrer of passengers, in addition to passage money, demanded and received from a passenger compensaton asfreight for the transportation of packages containing
merchandise and baggage, andit was held, in the absence of
evidence of fraud or concealment- on the part of the passenger
as to the contents of the packages, that such carrier, in case of
loss, was liable -for the merchandise as well as the baggage.

HUMPHREYS v. PERRY.
Opmion of the Court.

The same principle was applied in Sloman v Great TWes rn
Railway, 67 N. Y 208.
In .Millard v 3lissourn, Zansas & Tex. Railroad, 86N. Y
441, the same principle was applied in a case where the railroad
company's agent was advised by a person who had purchased
a passenger ticket, of the fact that a trunk contained merchandise, and the agent demanded and received extra compensation
for its transportation.
The same rule was applied in Texas & Paci§t Railroad v
Capps, 2 Tex. Ot. App. Civil Cases, § 3. In Jacobs v Tutt,
33 Fed. Rep. 412, the suit was against the same receivers as in
the present case, to recover the value of a trunk and contents,
which were stolen, and the trunk was the trunk of a jewelry
salesman, containing his stock in trade , the agent who took it
knew that fact, and the plaintiff had made no effort at concealment; and it was held that the receivers were liable as for the
loss of ordinary baggage on the railroad.
We have examined the other cases cited on behalf of the
mtervenors, namely, Butler v. Hfudson Rver Railroad, 3
E. D. Smith, 571, Hellman v. Hlolladay, 1 Woolworth, 365,
Railroad Co. v. Tralof,100 U. S. 24, and Talcott v TFabash
Railroad, 21 N. Y Suppl. 318, and do not think they haveany'application to-the present case.
The case of ,Switzerland.Marne-1. Co. v. .Loutsville, Cincmnali L exzngton Railway Co., 13 Int. Rev. Record, 34:2,
is a charge to a jury that the item "baggage" does not include
articles of merchandise for sale or for use as samples, and not
designed for the use of the passenger, and that, if the passenger has such articles checked and received by the carrier as
baggage, the carrier will not be liable for them if lost or
injured, unless it was informed or was presumed- to have
known that the articles were merchandise, or unless it was the
established custom or usage of the defendant to receive and
transfer them as baggage, or unless they were lost by the gross,
negligence of the defendant. After a verdict and judgmenC
for the plaintiff the case was brought to this court by a writ
of error, and affirmed here by a divided court. 131 U. S. 440y
31 L. C. 1? Co. 204.
"

