OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. TRUESDELL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAiMS.
No. 552.

Submitted January 9, 1893.-Decided March 6, 1893.

Tkis case is affirmed on the authority of United States v. Alexander, ante,
186.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Ar Solicitor General Cotton for appellants.
.M-r Job Barnardand MHr George A. Zing for appellee.
MIR. JUSTIcE SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the Court of Claims to recover
damages for the loss of a well, occasioned by the construction
of an extension of the Washington Aqueduct, and for compensation for a right of way across land of the complainant,
taken for the purpose of constructing a tunnel, by virtue of an
act of Congress of July 15, 1882, entitled "An act to increase
the water supply of the city of Washington and for other
purposes." 22 Stat. 168, c. 294.
So far as the recovery of the plaintiff below was based on
the claim for-compensation for land actually taken, the United
States do not, in this appeal, complain. But they contend
that the injury caused by the destruction of the well was
damnum absque sqnyurta. The liability of the United States,
under the statute by virtue of which the work in question
was done and the damages occasioned, has been declared in
the opinion of this court in the case, just decided, of the
United States v Alexander, ante, 186, where the facts were
similar, and we do not need to repeat. what is therein said.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly
Affirmed.

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

PETTIBONE v. UNITED STATES.
EE2ROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FO

THE

DISTRICT OF IDAHO,
No. 1241. Argued February 1, 2,1893.-Decided March 6, 1893.
In a prosecution for conspiracy, corruptly and by threats and -force to obstruct the due administration of Justice in a Circuit Court of the_ United
States, the combination of minds for the unlawful purpose and the overt
act in effectuatioil of that purpose must appear charged in the indictment.
A conspiracy is sufficientlv described as a combination of two or more persons, by concerted action, to accomplish a criminal or unlaw.ful purpose,
or some purpose not in itsell criminal or unlawful by criminal or unlawful means.
When the criminality of a conspiracy consists in an unlawful agreement of
two or more persons to compass or promote, some criminal or illegal
purpose, that purpose-must be fully and clearly stated in the indictment;
*while if the criminality of the offence consists in the agreement to
accomplish a purpose -not in itself criminal or unlawful, by criminal or
unlawful means, the means must be set out.
An indictment against a person for corruptly or by threats or force endeavoring to influence, intimidate, or impede a witness or officer in a court
of the United States in the discharge of his duty must charge knowledge
or notice, or setout facts that show knowledge or notice, on thepart of
the accused that the witness or officer was such.
A person is not sufficiently- charged in such case with obstructing or impeding the due administration of 3ustice in a court, unless it appear that he
knew. or had .notice that justice was being administered in such court.
PLAINTIFFS m

error were indicted under sections 5399 and

5440 of the Revised Statutes of the.United States, (the latter
as amended by the act of May 17, 18T9, 21. Stat. 4, c. 8,)
which are as follows
" SEC. 5399. Every person who corruptly, or by threats or
force, endeavors to. influence, intlmldate, or inpede any
witness, or officer in any court of the United States, in the.

discharge of his duty, or corruptly, or by*threats or force,
obstructs or impedes, or endeavors to obstruct or impede, the
due adminstration of' justlce theren, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment
not more than three months, or both."

