GIOZZA v. TIERNAN.
Statement of the Case.

valorem on "smokers" articles." The jury having been instructed otherwise, the
Judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to set aside the verdict and
to order a new trzai.

GIOZZA v. TIERNAN{.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THF EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 185.

Submitted March 28, 1893. -Decided

April 10, 1893.

The provisions in the legislation of the State of Texas, respecting the taxation of persons engaged in the sale of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors,
or medicated bitters, do not violate the Constitution of the United
States.

FRANcois GiozzA was indicted in the criminal district court
of Galveston County, Texas, upon the charge of having pursued the occupation of selling spirituous, vinous and malt
liquors in quantities less than one quart, without having first
obtained a license therefor, and was tried, convicted and
fined in the sum of $450. He thereupon carried the case by
appeal to the Court f Appeals of Texas, the court of last
resort in criminal cases, which affirmed the judgment. Subsequently he was arrested and held in custody by Patrick
Tiernan, as sheriff of Galveston County, by authority of a
capias issued by ihe criinmal court, until the fine and costs
were paid. Thereupon he applied for and obtained from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Texas a writ of habeas corpus.
The petition for the writ set forth that by the laws of the
State no person is permitted to obtain a license to pursue the
occupation of selling liquor, until such person has given a
bond in the gum of $5000 payable to the State of Texas, and
containing, among other conditions, the condition in substance
that the persons giving such bond will not sell spirituous, vinous
VOL. CxLvi---42

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

or malt liquors, or medicated bitters capable of producing
intoxication, to any person, after having been notified in writing, through the sheriff or other peace officer, by the wife or
mother or daughter or sister of such person, not to sell to
such person, that such bond-may be sued on at the instance
of any person so notifying and aggrieved by the violation of
such condition m said bond, and such person so notifying shall
be entitled to recover the sum of $500 as liquidated damages
for an infraction of such condition, etc. And petitioner
charged that it was not competent for the legislature of the
State of Texas to impose the condition above stated as a condition precedent to the obtaining of a license to pursue said
occupation, and that the statute, in so far as it imposed such
conditions, operated as a denial of the equal protection of the
laws, and deprived petitioner of his property without due process of law, and was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. Petitioner
further alleged that, in order to obtain a license to pursu,
the occupation aforesaid, all persons desiring to engagE
therein are iequired to pay the occupation tax imposed
thereon in advance, for a period not less than twelve months,
and to pay the tax imposed by the State and by the commissioners' courts of the several counties, and by the cities and
towns wherein such occupation is carried on, and to obtain a
license from the county clerk of the county in which said
Qpaupation is carried on, for wich license the sum of twentyfive cents is required to be paid, while all other persons pursuing all other occupations than the one pursued by petitioner
are permitted by the laws of said State to pay Ihe occupation
tax on said occupations for each three months or quarterly,
and no persons pursuing other taxable occupations than that
pursued by appellant in cities and towns are required to pay
the occupation tax imposed by such cities or towns, as a prerequisite to obtaining a license to pursue such occupations, and
no person pursuing any taxable occupation other than that
pursued by petitioner are required to obtain a license from
such county clerk or to pay therefor any sum.
Petitioner charged that under the laws aforesaid he was

GIOZZA

. TIERNAN.

Statement of -the Case.

denied the equal protection .of the laws and deprived of his
property without due process of law, and that those laws were
repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The petition further averred that the laws of the State-of
which petitioner complained had been pronounced and adjudged by the Court of Appeals to be valid laws, and not
contrary to and not inhibited by the Constitution of the
United States.
A copy .of the indictment was annexed to the petition,
wherefrom it appeared that Giozza was charged with unlawfully and wilfully pursuing the occupation aforesaid, without
first having obtained a license, and that he had not paid the
tax thereon, and was indebted to the State in the sum of $300
occupation tax,.and to the county m-the sum of $150 occupation tax, the commissioners' court of Galveston County having
levied a tax on said occupation of one-half the amount levied
by the State thereon.
The sheriff made due return that he held Giozza in his
custody by the authority aforesaid, and attached thereto
copies of the indictment, the carias, and the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.
Upon the hearing, the Circuit Court adjudged that Giozza
was not unlawfully restrained of Is liberty and remanded
him to the custody of the sheriff, and he thereupon brought
the case to this court by appeal.
The statute in question provided in its first section for the
levy upon any person, firm or association of persons engaged
in the occupation of selling .spirituous, vinous or malt liquors,
or medicated bitters, of an annual tax of $300 for selling such
liquors or bitters in quantities less than one quart. Under
the second section the commissioners' court had power to levy
and collect taxes upon the occupations named, equal to onehalf of the state tax, and cities and towns were empowered
to levy an additional tax. By the third section, all the taxes
were required to be paid in advance for a period of not less
than twelve months. The fourth section required the giving
of a bond, as sufficiently stated in the petition. Under section
five, the county clerks m the several counties were authorized

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to issue licenses upon payment by the applicant of all occupation taxes levied by or under the act. The evidence of the
payment" of the taxes upon such application was the receipt
of the county collector of taxes. For issuing the license the
clerk was entitled to receive a fee of twenty-five cents for
each license. Art. 3226a, 2 Sayles' Tex. Civ. Stat. 124.
Art. 110 of the Texas Penal Code reads "1Any person who
shall pursue or follow any occupation, calling or profession,
or do any act taxed by law, without first obtaining a license
therefor, shall be fined in any sum not less than the amount
of the taxes so due, and not niore than double that sum,"
and by Art. 112 it is provided that any person prosecuted
shall have the right at any time before conviction to have the
prosecution dismissed on payment of the taxes and cc, ,ts of
prosecution, the procuring of the license, etc. Willson's Cr.
Tex. Stat. Part I, p. 47.
Section 20 of article 16 of the constitution of Texas is as
follows "The legislature shall, at its first session, enact a law
whereby the qualified voters of any county, justice's frecinct,
town or city, by a majority vote, from time to time, may
determine whether the sale of intoxicating liquors shall be
prohibited within the prescribed limits."
Section 42 of the same article provides that" the legislature
may establish an inebriate asylum, for the cure of drunkenness
and reform of inebriates."
It was contended also that the court should take judicial
notice that in 1887 a vote was taken upon a proposed amendment to the state constitution prohibiting the manufacture,
sale and exchange of intoxicating liquors, except for medical,
sacramental and scientific purposes, whichwas rejected by a
large majority
Mr T .X. Bu'roughs for appellant.
Xr
. A. Cutberson, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, and M/r 1R. L. Batts, for appellee.
MRT. CmIEF JusTIcE

court.

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

GIOZZA v. TIERNAN.
Opmion of the Court.

As upon the face of the petition it appeared that the validity
of the statute of which appellant complains was drawn in
question in the state court on the ground of its repugnancy
to the Constitution of the United States, and the decision was
in favor of its validity, the remedy which should have been
sought was by writ of error. But since the Circuit Court
held that petitioner was not illegally restrained of his
liberty, and the contention was that the proceedings against
him were wholly void because the statute regulating the sale
of liquors was void, we will not dispose of the case on the
narrower ground.
Irrespective of the operation of the federal Constitution and
restrictions asserted to be inherent in the nature of American
institutions, the general rule is that there are no limitations
upon the legislative power of the legislature of a State, except
those imposed by its written constitution. There is nothing
in the constitution of Texas restricting the power of the
legislature m reference to the sale of liquor, and it is well
settled that the legislature of that State has the power to
regulate the mode and manner and the circumstances under
which the liquor traffic may be conducted, and to surround
the right to pursue it with such conditions, restrictions and
limitations as the legislature may deem proper. Ex _parte
Bell, 21 Texas App. 428, Bell v State, 28 Texas App. 96.
In these cases, and in the case before us, the law in question
was held to be within the legislative power, and, so far as
the *stateconstitution is concerned, that -conclusion is not reexaminable here. But it is contended that the act conflicts
with the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, that "no
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or property
without due process of law, nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United
States are privileges and immunities arising out of the nature
aind essential character of the national government, and
granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opnion of the Court.

and the right to sell intoxicating liquors is not one of the
rights growing out of such citizenship. Bartemeyer v Iowa,
18 Wall. 129.
The amendment does not take from the States those powers
of police that were reserved at the time the original Constitution was adopted. Undoubtedly it forbids any arbitrary
deprivation of life, liberty or property, and secures equal
protection to all under like circumstances in the enjoyment
f their rights, but it was not designed to interfere with the
power of the State to protect the lives, liberty and property
of its citizens, and to promote their health, morals, education
and good order. Barbier v. Con'nolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31, In
re Kemmier, 136 U. S. 436.
Nor, -in respect of taxation was the amendment intended to
compel the State to adopt an iron rule of equality, to prevent
the classification of property for taxation at different rates,
or to prohibit legislation in that regard, special either in. the
extent to which it operates or the objects sought to be obtained by it. It is enough that there is no discrimination in
favor of one as against another of the same class. Bell's
Gap'Railroadv Pennsylvana,134 U S. 232, Home .Isur
ance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 59-, Pac yv, Exepress Co. v.
Seibert, 142 U. S. 339. And due process of law within the
meaning of the amendment is secured ifthe laws operate on all
alike, and do not'subject the individual to an arbitrary exercise
of the powers of government.
eeper v Texas, 139 U. S. 462.
This statute affects all persons in Texas engaged in the sale
of liquors in exactly the same manner and degree. Whether
considered- as imposing resbrictions upon the sale in the exercise of the police power of the State, or as levving taxes upon
occupations under authority of the legislature in that behalf,
petitioner was not arbitrarily deprived of his property nor
denied the equal protection of the laws.
Repeated decisions of this court have determined that such
legislation is not in violation of the Constitution. Crowley v.
CMristensen, 137 U. S. 86, Eilenbecker v. Plymouth Co., 134
U. S. 31, Kfidd v Pearson,,128 U.S. 1, -9fuglerv. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623, -Fosterv; -ans.as, 112 U. S. 201..
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

