PENNSYLYAN.,IA COMPANY v. BENDER.
Syllabus.

and while this order was entered at a term subsequent to that
at which the judgment was rendered, it was entered in a
matter kept within the control of the court by the order of
prolongation. Mr. Justice Kerrick, if living, might have
settled the bill of exceptions in the case in April, 1889, at the
time the motion under consideration was made, and inasmuch
as, because of his decease, the bill of exceptions could not be
settled by him, and counsel could not settle it by agreement,
Rule 6 applied. At all events, the court had power to carry
that conclusion into effect, and this being so, the order that it
entered awarding a new trial was not a final judgment.
The distinction between Pillips v. 3Megley, 11 _U. S. 665,
and this case is, that there a verdict and judgment had beentaken against the defendant and no motion was made or
proceeding had at that term for the purpose and with the
view of setting aside the judgment. The litigation was at an
end upon the adjournment of the term and the successful
party discharged from further attendance.
The result is that the writ of error must be
.Dnismssed.

PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY v. BENDER.
ERROR TO THE SUPiEME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 1142. Submitted March 6, 1893. - Decided March 20, 1893.

Under the act of March 3, 1887, 21 Stat. c. 373, ยง 2, pp. 552, 553, a finding
by the Circuit Court of -the United States, on- an application for the
removal of a cause from a state court, that the application is sufficiint,
and such as entitles the defendant to remove the cause to a Fedetln
court, does not, of itself, work such removal, but an order of the court
to that effect, equivalent to a judgment, must be made.
When a manifestly defective petition for the removal of a cause from a
state court to a Federal court is filed in the trial court of the State, and
that court denies it, and prQceeds to trial and 3udgment on the merits,
and the cause is taken in error to an appellate court of the State, where
the judgment below is affirmed, no Federal question arises.
ffanocse v. .ilartin,15 How. 198, disthiguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ON September 12, 1887, the defendant in error filed his

petition in the court of common pleas of Holmes County,
Ohio, to recover from the defendant, the Pennsylvama Company, the sum of $10,000. On October 3, the defendant
answered. On March 2, 1888, it filed a petition for removal
to the United States Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Ohio. On March 24, a motion was made to strike this
petition from the files, which, on March 27, was sustained.
At the May term, 1888, a trial was had, both parties appearing. A verdict was returned by the jury for $6000, upon
which judgment was duly entered. Thereafter a petition in
error was filed in the Circuit Court of Holmes County to
reverse such judgment. To this petition in error were
attached two transcripts, one of the record in the court
of common pleas, and the other of a certain journal entry
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Ohio. This journal entry was as follows
"George S. Bender, Administrator,
Law
/Vs.
The Pennsylvania Company
"TumsDAY, Marelh 6, 1888.
"This day came on to be heard the petition of the defendant for an order for the removal of this case from the court
of common pleas. of Holmes County, Ohio, and, it appearing
to the court that the defendant has filed in this court its petition, bond and affidavit under the 2d section of the act of
Congress of March 3, 1887,. entitled 'An act to determine the
jurisdiction of Circuit Courts of the United States and to
regulate the removal of causes from State courts and for other
purposes,' etc., from which it appears to the court that said
affidavit is in compliance with said 2d section of said act of
Congress, and that said bond is sufficient and satisfactory,.and
that said defendant by its petition, affidavit and bond has
shown that it is entitled to remove cause to this court."
In that court a motion was made to strike the petition in
error from the files; which motion was sustained. Thereupon the defendant filed its petition in error in the Supreme

PENNSYLVFANIA COMSIPANY v. BENDER.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of the State to reverse this ruling. On May 17, 1892,
that court sustained the ruling of the Circuit Court and affirmed
the judgment, to reverse which judgment of affirmance plaintiff
in error sued out a writ of error from this court. The case is
now submitted on a motion to dismiss.
-Hr Lyman R. Critchfleld,for the motion.
.Mr 1. I. Gilbert, (with whom were Mr T 1R. Carey and
.Mr F J MAullins on the brief,) opposing.

:M.

JUSTiC.E

BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

So far as the record of the case in the court of common
pleas is concerned, there is/obviously no error and no semblance of a Federal question. The petition there filed for
removal was manifestly defective. It simply alleged that the
plaintiff was a resident of the State of Ohio, and did not show
his citizenship. In the petition in error filed in the Circuit
Court no complaint was made of the order of the court of
common pleas, striking out this petition for removal. Looking, therefore, only at the record of the court of common pleas,
as it was presented to the Circuit Court, there was but one
thing that it could do, and that was to affirm the judgment.
The contention, however, of the plaintiff in error is, that
the order made in the United States court prior to the trial in
the common pleas operated, by virtue of the act of Congress
of March 3, 1887, to oust the common pleas court of jurisdiction, and remove the case to the Federal court, and that,
therefore, the subsequent proceedings of trial and judgment
were cora nonyjudice and void.
But no order of removal was made by the Federal court.
The journal entry, which is certified by the clerk to be the
entire entry, is -simply a finding that the application for
removal is sufficient, and such as. entitles the defendant to
remove the cause to the Federal court. But such finding
does not remove the case any more. than an order overruling
a demurrer to a petition makes a judgment. Such an order
is simply an adjudication of the right of the plaintiff to a
VOL. cx.LvnI-17

OCTOBER TERM4, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.-

judgment. Upon it alone execution cannot issue. There
must be a judgment, or, in other words, an order based upon
the.determination of the right. A mere finding that the party
is entitled to a -removal is no order, and does not of itself work
the removal.
There is a difference between the act of 1887 and earlier
statutes in respect to the provisions for removals. Thus in
the act immediately prior, that of 1875, the proceedings were
these The party desiring to remove filed in the state court
his petition and bond, which, being done, the act provided
that "it shall then be the duty of the state court to accept
said petition and bond, and proceed no farther in such suit."
And, also, that upon the filing of the copy of the record in
the Circuit Court of the United States "the cause shall then
proceed in the same manner as if it had been originally commenced in the said Circuit Court." Under that statute the
proceedings were had in the state court-proceedings, therefore, of which it had knowledge, and the specific provision
was that upon the filing of a sufficient petition and bond the
state court should accept them, and proceed no further. No
adjudication by the state court of the sufficiency of the
petition and bond was essential, no failure of such adjudication prevented a removal, and yet the state court had a right
to examine and see whether the petition and bond were
sufficient. As said in RemovaZ Case, 100 U. S. 457, 474, "we
fully recognize the principle heretofore asserted in many cases,
that the state court is nct required to let go its jurisdiction
until a case is made which, upon its face, shows that the
petitioner can remove the cause as a matter of right."
The act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, 553, c. 373, ยง 2,
establishes a different procedure, as follows "Any defendant
may remove such suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the proper district,
when it shall
be made to appear to said Circuit Court that from prejudice
or local influence he will not be able to obtain justice in such
state court." There is no specific declaration when proceedings m the state court shall stop. The right to a removal
is determined by the Federal court, and determined upon

PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY v. BENDER.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence satisfactory to it. When it is satisfied that the con:
ditions exist, the defendant may remove how? The proper
way is for him to obtain an order from the Federal court for
the removal, file that order in the state court, and take- from
it a transcript and file it in the Federal court. It may be
said that these steps are not in terms prescribed bv tkle statute.
That is true, and also true that no specific procedure is named.
The language simply is that the defendant may remove, when
he has satisfied the Federal court of the existence of sufficient
prejudice. The statute being silent, the generdl rules in
respect to the transfer of cases from one court to another
must obtain. If the order of one court is to stay the action of
another, the latter is entitled to notice. If a case is to pass
from one court to another, this is done by filing a' transcript
of the record of the one in the other. (lVirg.nva v Paul,ante,
107.) Such orders and transfers are generally in appellate
proceedings; yet something of the same kind is appropriate
and necessary in the orderly administration of affairs to transfer, by order of the Federal court, a case from the state court
to itself. Certainly this statute does not abolish the law -ofcomity, which controls the relations of the, courts of two
sovereignties exercising jurisdiction within the same territorial
limits, nor does it abrogate the duty of counsel to seasonably
advise the courts of which they are counsel of any matter which,
if known, would prevent an erroneous exercise of jurisdiction.
At any rate, if these exact steps are not re'quisite, something
equivalent thereto is. If there had been more attention paid
to these matters in removal proceedings, there would have
been less irritation prevailing in state tribunals'at removals.
But, again, the Revised Statutes of the State of Ohio of
1891 contain these sections
"Section 6709. A judgment rendered, or final order made
by the common pleas court, may be reversed, vacated, or
modified by the circuit court, for errors appearing on the
record.
" Section 6710. A judgment rendered, or final order made,
by the circuit court, any court of common pleas, probate court
or the superior court of any city or county, may be reversed,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

vacated or modified by the Supreme Court, on petition in
error, for errors appearing on the record."
And these provisions are in accord with the general rule in
reference to the scope of inquiry in a reviewing court. Now,
the record of the common pleas court disclosed no order of
removal, no steps essential thereto. Obviously upon that
record, as heretofore said, the Circuit Court could do nothing
but affirm the judgment. The record of another court was
presented and invoked to compel a decision that there was
error in the proceedings of the common pleas court, and in
support of this contention the case of Tianouse v -Martin,15
How 198, is cited. In that case it appeared that a suit was
commenced in the court of common pleas for the city and
county of New York. The defendant filed a petition and
bond for removal. The court of common pleas demed his
petition, and proceeded to try the case. Judgment having
been rendered against him, he took the case to an appellate
state court. The- record which was sent up did not include
the- removal proceedings, they being matters which the
statutes of New York State did not authorize to be incorporated into and made a part of the record. Dumnution of
the record was suggested, and thereupon a transcript of those
proceedings was sent to the appellate court, but that court,
holding that they were not, under the statutes of New York,
technically a part of the record, refused to consider them, and
affirmed the judgment. On a writ of error from this court
the judgment was. reversed, and it was held that, although
those matters were not technically a part of the record
according to the statutes of New York, yet that the act of
Congress granting the right- of removal was binding upon all
-the courts of the States, and that, if the proceedings were
sufficient under that statute for removal, it was the duty of
the appellate court to disregard the state limitation and
inspect. the removal proceedings. In its opimon., on page 208,
this court said
"But it is objected that this is a writ of error to the
Superior Court, and that by the local law of New York, that
court could not-consider this error in the proceedings of the

PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY v. BENDER.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Common Pleas, because it did not appear upon .the
record, which, according to the law of the. State, consisted

only of the declaration, the evidence of its service, the entry
of the appearance of the defendant, the rule to plead, and the
judgment for want of a plea, and the assessment of damages,
and that these proceedings, under the act of Congress, not
being part of this technical record, no error could be assigned
upon them in the Superior Court. This appears to have been
the ground upon which the Superior Court rested its decision.
That it was correct, according to the common and statute law
of the State of New York, may be conceded. But the act of
Congress, which conferred on the defendant the privilege of
removal, and pointed out the mode in which it was to be
claimed, is a law binding upon all the courts of that State,
and if that act both rendered the judgment of the Court of
Common Pleas erroneous, and m effect gave the defendant a
right to assign that error, though the proceeding did not
appear on the technical record, then, by foroe of that act of
Congress, the Superior Court was bound to disregard the
techmcal objection, and inspect these proceedings."
But all that that case decided was that when the statute of
the State fails to make certain proceedings had in the trial
court a part of the record for review in the appellate court, a
law of Congress which gives a specific effect to those proceedings, if sufficient in form, compels an examination of them in
the appellate court, in order that it may be there determined
whether the trial court improperly refused to give the due
effect to them. Or, to state it in other words, the act of Congress broadens the technical rule of the State statute so as to
include m the record other proceedings actually had in the
trial court. But that case does not decide that an appellate
and reviewing court must examine other than the proceedings
of the court whose judgment is sought to be reviewed. See
upon this question the case of Goodenough -Horseshoe.Manufacturng Co. v. Rhode Island Horseshoe Co., 181 U. S. App.
cxxvimi, decided by this court in 1877, and reported in 24
L. C. P R. Co. Rep. 368.
The motion to dismuiss must be sustdined.

