OCTOBER TERM, 1892,
Statement of the Case.

decree has been entered m the trial court, it is none the less
true that he has experimented with the state courts and been
beaten, and now seeks a different forum. Jifkzns v. Sweetzer,
102 U S. 177.
The order to remand is

Affirmed.

INDIANA v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
lNo..1162.

Argued January 13,1893.-Decided March 13, 1893.

The State of Indiana is not entitled, under the act of April 19, 1816, c. 57,
and the act of'March 3, 1857, c. 104, to be paid by the United States the
two per cent of the net proceeds of sales by Congress of lands within
the State, which the United States agreed by the former act to apply "to
the making of a road or roads leading to the said State," and have actually applied to the making of the Cumberland road.

TnIs was a petition, filed m the Court of Claims on October
23, 1889, by the State of Indiana against the United States,
to recover the sum of $412,184.97, alleged to be due to the
State of Indiana out of moneys received by the United States
from sales of public lands in that State. The Court of Claims
dismissed the petition. 28 C. Cl. The petitioner appealed to this court. The facts found by the Court of Claims,
and the material provisions of the statutes bearing upon the
claim of the petitioner, were as follows
In the act of April 30, 1802, c. 40, for the admission of the
State of Ohio into the Union, one of the propositions offered
by Congress, and accepted by the State, was that one twentieth part of the net proceeds of lands within the Stute, afterwards sold by Congress, should "be applied to the laying out
and making public roads, leading from the navigable waters
emptying into the Atlantic, to the Ohio, to the said State,
and through the same, such roads to be laid out under the
authority of Congress, with the consent of the several States
through which the road shall pass," and it was provided that
the propositions so offered were on condition that the State

INDIANA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

should provide, by ordinance irrevocable without the consent of
Congress, that all lands sold by Congress should be exempt
from taxation under authority of the State for five years after
sale. 2 Stat. 175. By the act of 'March 3, 1803, c. 21,§ 2, it
was enacted that three per cent of these proceeds should be
paid, from time to time, to the State, to be applied to the
laying out, opening and making roads within it. 2 Stat. 226.
By the act of March 29, 1806, c. 19, for building a .road
from Cumberland in Maryland to the State of Ohio, (since
known as the Cumberland or National road,) and by subsequent acts passed before the admission of the State of Indiana
into the Union, Congress appropriated for the building of
that road various sums amounting to $710,000, 'to be reimbursed out of the two per cent fund. 2 Stat. 357, 555, 661,
730, 829, 3 Stat. 206, 282. The expenses upon the road
during that period largely exceeded the-moneys credited to
that fund.
The act of April 19, 1816, c. 57, for the admission of the
State of Indiana into the Union, likewise provided that five
per cent of the net proceeds of the sale by Congress of lands
in the State should be reserved for the making of public
roads and canals, of which three fifths- should be applied to
those objects by the State, and two fifths "to the making of
a road or roads leading to the said State, under the direction
of Congress." 3 Stat. 290. And-by the act 6f April 11, 1818,
c. 49, the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to pay the
three per cent, from time to time, to the State of Indiana. 3
Stat. 424.
Similar provisions were contained in the acts for the admission into the Union of Mississippi in 1817, of Illinois m 1818,
of Alabama in 1819, and of Missouri in 1820. 3 Stat. 348,
428, 489, 545.
By the act of May 15, 1820, c. 123, Congress directed the
road to be continued from Cumberland to Wheeling in the
State of Virginia provided, however, "that nothing in this
act contained, or that shall be done in pursuance thereof,
shall be deemed or construed to imply any obligation on the
part of the. United States to make, or to defray the expense -of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

making, the- road hereby authorized to be laid out, or of any
part thereof." 3 Stat. 604.
In 1822 the road had been finished from Cumberland to
Wheeling. In the same year, an act ordering the erecting of
toll gates and the imposition of tolls on the road was passed by
both houses of Congress, but was vetoed by President Monroe.
A continuance of the road was laid out, graded, bridged
and made a highway from the Ohio River opposite Wheeling
to the seat of government of the State of Missouri, and upon
it was transported the government mail, and it was opened
and used by the public. But this was not accomplished until
after toll gates had been erected and tolls inposed upon it by
the States of Ohio and Virginia, as authorized by the acts of
Congress of March 2, 1831, c. 97, and March 2, 1833, c. 79.
4 Stat. 483, 655. By successive acts, passed from 1829 to
1856 inclusive, and collected in the opinion of the Court of
Claims, Congress surrendered the road, as fast as completed,
to the States through which it ran.
By the act of September 4, 1841, c. 16, § 16, the two per
cent of the net proceeds of the lands sold by the United
States in the State of Mississippi, and reserved by former acts
for the making of a road or roads leading to that State, was
relinqiushed to the State of Mississippi, to be applied to the
making of a railroad from Brandon in that State to the
boundary line of Alabama, and by § 17, the like fund was
relinquished to the State of Alabama, to be applied to the
construction of certain lines of internal improvements in that
State. 5 Stat. 457, 458.
By the act of March 2, 1855, c. 139, entitled "An act to
settle certaan accounts between the United States and the
State of Alabama," it was enacted "that the Comnssioner of
the General Land Office be, and he is hereby, required to state
an account between the, United States and the State of Alabama, for the purpose of ascertaining what sum or sums of
money are due to said State, heretofore unsettled, under the
sixth section of the act of March 2, 1819, for the admission of
Alabama into the Uion, and.that he be required to include
in said account the several reservations under the various

INDIANA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

treaties with the Chickasaw, Choctaw and Creek Indians
within the limits of Alabama, and allow and pay to the said

State five per centum thereon, as in case of other sales."

10

Stat. 630.
The act of March 3, 1857, c. 104, entitled "An act to settle
certain accounts between the United. States and the State of
Mississippi and other States," required the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, by § 1, "to state an account between
the United States and the-Stgte of Mississippi, for the purpose
of ascertaining what sum or sums of money are due to said
State, heretofore unsettled, on account of the public lands in
said State, and upon the same principles of allowance and
settlement as prescribed in, the" act of March 2, 1855, c. 139,
and to include in like manner the reservations under Indian
treaties, and further provided, in § 2, that ",the said commissioner shall also state an account between -the_ United States
and each of the other States upon the same principles, and
shall allow and pay to each State such amount as shall thus
be found due, estimating all lands and permanent reservations
at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre." 11 Stat. 200.
On December 4, 1872, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office stated an account between the United States an&
the State of Indiana, in which he found that, by accounts
referred to, there appeared to be due to the State the following sums
Balance due December 31, 1856, on account of
three per cent fund

.....

Amount of two per cent on net proceeds of sales
of public lands from December 1, 1816, to
December 31, 1856, (the expenses incident to
sales since that date being in excess of the
gross receipts).
Atnount of five per cent on the cash value,, at
$1.25 per acre, of lands within permanent
Indian reservations.

-

$47 12

413,568 61

6,333 73
$419,949 46-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The Commissioner also referred to a table of the acts of
Congress making appropriations for the construction of the
Cumberland road, winch showed that the sums appropriated
from 1818 to 1837, under acts requiring them to be renbursed out of the two per cent reserved for the laying out
and making roads in the States of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois,
amounted to $2,502,900.45, and that the additional sums appropriated from 1825 to 1836, under acts requiring them to be
reinbursed out of the two per cent reserved for laying out
and making roads in those three States and Missouri, amounted
to $1,555,000. The Commissioner then stated that it would
thereby be seen that the proportion of the sums from time to
time appropriated for the -construction of the Cumberland
road, winch, by law, were to be replaced in the Treasury out
of the five per cent accruing in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and
Missouri, would more than absorb the entire amount of the
two per cent which had accrued upon the sales of lands in
Indiana, and that, therefore, in the absence of special legislatio._ upon the subject, nothing would appear to be at present
payable to the State of Indiana, except the sums of $47.12
on the three per cent- account and $6333.73 for Indian reservations.
On January 25, 1873, the Comptroller of the Treasury certified the balance, consisting of those two sums, and amounting to $6380.85, to be due to the State of Indiana. On February
10, 1873, the Secretary of the Treasury, under the authority
given him by the act of March 30, 1868, c. 36, (15 Stat. 5-4,)
referred the account to the Comptroller for rexamination,
and lie thereupon vacated the former certificate. On February 5, 1874, the Comptroller reaffirmed the former decision
and certificate, as to the sum of. $6380.85, but reserved for
future consideration the question as to the further claim made
by the State. This amount of $6380.85 was paid to the
State, but was not accepted by it as a final settlement of its
demands.
It did not appear, either from that account or from the
evidenci in the case, what part of the expenditures upon the
National ioad was properly chargeable to "making a road

INDIANA v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

to the said State," or what proportion of such expenditures for
making a road to the State of Indiana was properly chargeable to the States of Ohio, Illinois and Missouri.
On October 17, 1889, the State of Indiana made a formal
demand upon the Commissioner of the General Land Office
to state an account between the United States and the State
of Indiana., in accordance with the act of March 3, 1857.
But no further account than that above mentioned has been
stated by the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
-Mr William E Earle for appellant.
2fr Asszstant Attorney General Parkerfor appellees.
M.

JUSTIca GRAY, after stating the

case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By each of the acts of Congress, successively admitting the
States of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Missouri into the Union,
Congress agreed that five per cent of the net proceeds of
public lands within the State, sold by Congress, should be
applied to the making of a road or roads leading to the State,
and by those and other acts it was provided that, of this five
per cent fund, three per cent should be disbursed by the
States, and two per cent by the United States. The general
purpose was to promote the construction of a national highway connecting the new States in the interior with the old
States on the Atlantic seaboard.
In the act for the admission of Indiana, the original obligation assumed by Congress in this respect did not define the
termini of the road or roads to be built, or bind Congress to
complete any road, or require the two per cent of the proceeds of the sales of lands in Indiana to be expended within
the State, but the only obligation was to apply this two per
cent fund "to the making of a road or roads leading to the
said State, under the direction of Congress." It was for Congress to decide on what part of the road leading to Indiana
this fund should be expended, and Congress had the right to

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

treat the road as a whole, constructed for the benefit of all
the States through which it passed.
It is unnecessary to determine whether this obligation was
in the nature of a contract only, or whether it can be considered as in any sense constituting a trust, because, in either
aspect, the contract has been performed, or the trust executed,
by applying the fund in question to the making of a road
"leading to the said State" of Indiana.
It appears by the statement of the account between the
United States and the State of Indiana by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, (which there is nothing in the case
to control,) that the sums appropriated to the construction of
the Cumberland road leading to the State of Indiana greatly
exceeded the whole amount of the two per cent fund from
sales of lands in the State, and that, therefore, in the absence
of special legislation upon the subject, nothing was payable to
the State of Indiana on account of this fund.
Congress having a general authority to apply this fund to
any part of the road leading to the State of Indiana, the presumption is that this authority was honestly and fairly exercised, and there is nothing whatever in the record which
has any tendency to rebut this presumption. Such being the
case, the statement in the findings of fact, that it did not
appear, from -thet account or otherwise, what part of the
expenditures upon the road was properly chargeable to making a road to the said State," or what proportion of such expenditures for making a road to the State of Indiana was
properly chargeable to the States of Ohio, Illinois and Iissouri, is wholly imnaterial, and it was so treated' by both
parties at the argument.
As appears by the definition of the petitioner's position at
the begimng of the brief of its counsel, the failure of the
United States to build the National road was not made the
foundation of the claim, but "was only suggested in argument as a motive, by way of incidental explanation" of the
act of March 3, 1857, c. 104, § 2, upon which he relied, and
under which he contended that "it was immaterial whatmoneys had been expended by the government toward the

INDIAN'A v. UNITED STATES.
Qpmiron of the Court.

construction of the National turnpike." The decision of the
case, therefore, turns upon the interpretation and effect of
this act.
The argument for the appellant is based upon the following.
enactments By the act of September 4, 184:1, c. 16, §§ 16, 17,
the United States relinquished to the States of Afabama, and
Mississippi the two per cent fund accruing from sales of lands
m those States. By the act of March 2, 1855, c. 139j the
Commissioner of the General Land Office was required to
state an account between the United States and the State of
Alabama, "for the purpose of ascertaimng what sum or sums
of money are due to said State, heretofore unsettled," under
the act of 1819 admitting that State into the Union, and to
include in that account the reservations under treaties with
Indians within the limits of Alabama, "and allow and pay to
the said State five per centum thereon, as in case of other
sales." By the act of March 3, 1857, c. 104, § 1, the commissioner was required to state an account between the United
States and the State of Mississippi "'upon the same principles
of allowance and settlement as prescribed in" the act of 1855;
and by section 2'of the act of 1857, "said commissioner shall
also state an'account between the United States and each of
the other States upon the sane principles, and shall allow and
pay to each State such amount as shall thus be found due, estimating all lands and permanent reservations at one dollar
and twenty-five cents-per acre."
'It
is argued f0t the appellant that, as by the act of 1857
the account between the United States and the other States
is to 'b6 settled "I upon the same principles" as prescribed m
that act with relation to Mississippi, and in the act of 1855
with relation to Alabama, and as by the act of 1841 the two
per cent fund had been relinquished to Alabama and to -Mississippi, therefore the payment to the State of the whole two
per cent is one of the principles on which the account with
each of the other States is to be settled.
But the premises relied on do not support the conclusion.
Neither the act of 1857, nor the act of 1855, refers to the act
of 184:1. The act of 1857 requires the account with each

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of. the Court.

State to be settled on "the same principles of allowance and
settlement as prescribed" in the act of 1855. The principles
of allowance and settlement prescribed in the act of 1855 are
that the account with Alabama be stated "for the purpose of
ascertaining what sum or sums of money are due to said State,
heretofore unsettled," under the act for its admission into the
Union, and including five per cent on the Indian reservations
within the State, "as in case of other sales." The principles
of settlement are that the United States shall be charged
with the sums due, treating Indian reservations as sales.
They may not be limited to Indian reservations, and may
well include any unpaid balance of the three per cent fund
which Congress had agreed should be disbursed by the States,
as well as any part of the two per cent fund which had not
been applied by the United States to the making of a road or
roads according to their original obligation. But there is
nothing, in any of the acts upon the subject, which warrants
the inference that Congress intended that, because the United
States held themselves to be liable to Alabama and to Mississippi for the two per cent fund which they had never applied
as they had agreed, they should therefore be liable to the
other States for the like two per cent fund which had been
fully approprmated and expended in accordance with their
obligations to those States.
These views being conclusive against the right of the State
of Indiana to recover anything in this case, it is unnecessary
to consider the other questions discussed in the opinion of the
Court of Claims and argued in this court.
Judgment affinmed.

