UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO.

31

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA
LAND COMPANY

AND

OREGON

APPEAL FROm THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE NINTII CIRCUIT.
No. 1073. Argued January 10, 1i, 1893.-Decided March 6, 1893.

The former decision in this case, 140 U. S. 599, imported that the pleas
were sufficent in law, and remanded the case only for an inquiry as to
their truthfulness.
A defendant in equity may let the facts averred in the bill go unchallenged,
and set up some special matter by plea sufficient to defeat the recoveryand in such case no fact is in issue at the hearing but tie matter so
specially pleaded.
In these suits those defendants who were not the original wrongdoers had
the right to set up any special matter of defence which constituted a
defence as to them, and then the inquiry was limited to such matter as
between them and'the government.
The essential elements which go to make a bona fide purchaser f real
estate are: (1) a valuable consideration. (2) an absence of, ii Ice of
fraud or defect. (3) presence of good faith.
It is again decided that when a statute of the United States delegates to a
tribunal or officer full jurisdictioi over a subject in which the United
States are -interested, is or its determination within the limit of iis
authority is conclusive, in the absence of fraud.
A person holding under a quitelaim deed may be a bona fide purchaser.
Oliver v. Piatt,3 How. 333; Van Rensselaer v. -Fearney, 11 How. 297
3Hay v. Le Claire,11 Wall. 217 Villa v. lBndrzguez, 12 Wall. 323 Dickerson
v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578, Baker v. Humphrey, 101 U. S. 494;' and Hanrick
v. Patrick, 119 U. S. 156, questioned on this point.
A deed by which the grantor aliens, releases, grants, bargains, sells and
conveys the granted estate to the grantee, his heirs and assigns, to have
and to hold t1he same and all the right, title and interest of the grantor*
therein, is a deed of bargain and sale, and will convey an after acquired
title.
ON July 2, 1864, Congress passed an -act granting lands to
the State of Oregon to aid in the construction of a military
road from Eugene City to the eastern boundary of the State.
13 Stat, 355, c. 213. A proviso to the first and granting
section was "That the lands hereby granted shall be ex-

OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

clusively applied in the construction of said road, and shall
be disposed of only as the work progresses, and the same
shall be applied to no other purpose whatever." The third
and fourth sections read
"SEc. 3. And be itfurther enacted, That said road shall be

constructed with such width, graduation, and bridges as to
permit of its regular use as a wagon road, and in such other
special manner as the State of Oregon may prescribe.
"SEo. 4. And be stfurther enacted, That the lands hereby

granted to said State shall be disposed of only in the following
manner, that is to say that a quantity of land not exceeding
thirty sections for said road may be sold, and when the
governor of said State shall certify to the Secretary of the
Interior that any ten continuous miles of said road are completed, then another quantity of land hereby granted, not to
exceed thirty sections, may be sold, and so from time to time
until said road is completed, and if said road is not completed
within five years, no further sales shall be made, and the land
remaining unsold shall revert to the United States."
On October 24, 1861, the legislature of Oregon in its turn
granted these lands to the Oregon Central Military Road
Company, for the purpose of aiding it in constructing the
road. Laws of Oregon, 1864, p. 36. Oii June 18, 1874,
Congress enacted.
"CHAP 305. An act to authorize the issuance of patents
for lands granted to the State of Oregon in certain cases.
"Whereas certain lands have heretofore, by acts of Congress, been granted to the State of Oregon to aid in the
construction of certain military wagon-roads in said State,
and there exists no law providing for the issuing of formal
patents for said lands Therefore,
"JRe it enacted by the Senate and -Touse of -?epresentatives
of the United States of Amerwa in Cong'ress assembled, That

in all cases when the roads in aid of the construction of which
said lands were granted are shown by the certificate of the
governor of the State of Oregon, as in said acts provided, to
have been constructed and completed, patents for said lands
shall issue'in due form to the State of Oregon as fast as the

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO.

33

Statement of the Case.

same shall, under said grants, be selected and certified, unless
the State of Oregon shall by public act have transferred its
interests in said lands to any corporation or corporations, in
which case the patents shall issue from the General Land
Office to such corporation or corporations upon their payment
of the necessary expenses thereof Pr'ovided, That this shall
not be construed to revive any land grant already expired nor
to create any new rights of any kind except to provide for
issuing patents for lands to which the State is already entitled." 18 Stat. 80.
On March 2, 1889, Congress passed an act, 25 Stat. 850, c.
377, entitled "An act providing in certain cases for the forfeiture of wagon-road grants in the State of Oregon," which
commenced with this recital
"Whereas the United States have heretofore made various
grants of public lands to aid in the construction of different
wagon-roads in the State of Oregon, and upon the condition
that such roads should be completed within prescribed times,
and
"Whereas said grants were transferred by said State to sundry corporations, who were authorized by the State to construct such wagon-roads and to receive therefor the grants of
lands thus made, and
"Whereas the Department of the Interior certified portions
of said lands to the State of Oregon upon the theory that said
roads had been completed as required by the granting acts of
Congress, and upon the certificate of the governor of the State.
of Oregon as to such completion, and
"Whereas the legislature of the State of Oregon has memorialized Congress and therein alleged that certain of said
wagon-roads, in whole or in part, were not so completed', and
that to the extent of the lands coterminous with unconstructed
portions the certifications thereof by the Department of the
Interior were unauthorized and illegal Therefore"
and directed the Attorney General of the United States within
sL months to institute suits in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon against all firms, persons or
corporations claiming to own or have an .interest in lands
VOL. cxLv{I-3

-

,OCTOBER TERM, 1892
Statement of the Case.

granted to the State of Oregon by certain enumerated acts of
Congress - among others, the act above referred to, of July
2, 1864--"to determine the questions of the reasonable and
proper com)letion of said roads in accordance with the terms
of the granting acts, either n whole or in part, the legal effect
of the several certificates of the governors of the State of
Oregon of the completion of said roads, and the right of
resumption of such granted lands by the United States, and to
obtain judgments, which the court is hereby~authorized to render, declaring forfeited to. the United States all of such lands
as are coterininous with the part or parts of either of said
wagon-roads which were not constructed in accordance with
the requirements of the granting acts, and setting aside paTents
which have issued for any such lands, saving and preserving
the rights of all bona j de purchasers of either of said grants,
or of any portion of said grants, for a valuable consideration,
if any such there be. Said suit or suits shall be tried and
adjudicated in like manner and by the same principles and
rules of jurisprudence as other suits in equity are therein tried,
with right to writ of error or appeal by either or any party as
in other cases."
In yarsuance of this act, on August 30, 1889, a bill was filed
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Oregon against the Oregon Central YMilitary Road Company,
the California and Oregon Land Company, and certain named
individuals. The bill, it may be said in a general way charged
that the road was not in fact constructed, that certificates of
construction. were fraudulently obtained- fromr. the governors of
the State, 'that, m pursuance of such false certifications, a
large number of tracts had been certified or patented to the
State of Oregon for the benefit of the Oregon Central Militarv
Road'Company, that thereafter these lands were conveyed
to certain.of the individuals named as defendants, and by
them finally to the California and Oregon Laud Company,
and, further, that these parties received the deeds with fall
knowledge of the fact that the road was not constructed, as
required by "the act, and that the certificates were false and
fraudulently obtained. To thi bill, on October 24, 18S9, the

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO.

35

Argument for Appellants.

California and Oregon Land C6mpany filed two pleas and an
answer in support thereof. The case was set down for hearing on the pleas, and on February 18, 1890, they were. sustained and the bill dismissed. From such decree of dismissai
the United States appealed to this court. On May 25, 1891,
thie decision of the Circuit Court was reversed, (140 U. S. 599,)
and the case remanded-for further proceedings. The opinion
of this court was announced by Mvr. Justice Blatchford, and in
that opinion will be found a full history of all the matters affecting the litigation up to that time. The conclusion reached
was, that the Circuit Court erred in not permitting the United
States to reply to the pleas, and in dismissing the bill absolutely After the mandate had been filed in the Circuit Court,
issue was joined on the pleas, testimony taken, and on December 7,1891, a decree was again entered sustaining the second
plea, and dismissing the bill of complaint, as to the defendant, the California and Oregon Land Company From this
decree an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
by which court, on MIarch 10, 1892, that decree was affirmed,
(7 U. S. App. 128,) and from this decree of affirmance the
United States appealed to this court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Parker for appellants.
The court erred in holding that none of the provisions of
the act-of Oregon of 1862 applied to the road authorized by
Congress. It may be fairly inferred, that the act of Congress
was left indefinite because of the knowledge possessed that
the State prescribed a special manner of construction.
It may also fairly be inferred that the State, in- transferring
the grant to the wagon-road company without special conr
'ditions, relied upon the statute of October 14, 1862, subject to
which the company was incorporated, as providing valid and
sufficient requirements for the construction of the highways. Congress, in -using-the words '"may prescribe," cannot be
held to have exclijded existing laws,. it should be held, rather,
that the legislation was in view.of existing law, antI that tile
real intent was that specifications as to the construction should

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellants.

b3 subject to the State, and that the construction should be in
accordance with the laws of the State in force at the time the
obligation to construct should become binding. Congress did
no point to some future enactment, it pointed merely to the
law of the State as it should actually exist, and the fact that
such law continued, instead of being afterward created, does
not exempt the road company from its requirements.
Although the national and state acts, when accepted by the
road company, may be held to constitute a contract, this cQntract must - nothing appearing to the contrary -be held to
be made subject to the provisiotbs of existing jaw
These land grants were to be exclusrvely applied to the constructing of the road, and their application to any other purpose was prohibited. The grant was only upon these conditions;
the state acts continued, as they must have done, the conditions
and limitations, and the act of 1874- has not waived or changed
them, and all deeds were subject to these conditions and
limitations.
It is submitted that any purchaser receiving such a title of
land so granted was bound, at his peril, to know that the conditions had been fulfilled and that the limitations had not been
overstepped. He was bound, at his peril, to know whether
the constructing company had built the road as required. He
was bound to ascertain, at his peril, whether the certificate of
the governor was fraudulent or otherwise.
Any person purchasing the land involved was not at liberty
to merely look at or have an attorney examine the governor's
certificate, but it was his duty to ascertain whether the original
acts had been complied with, whether the land had actually
been earned, and whether the required road had in fact been
built.
It is manifest that the court below co6perated in excluding
from the trial the questions which Congress intended should
be tried, and the questions which this court may well have
anticipated would be tried when the case was sent back for
the filing of replies and for a new trial.
The order in which these proceedings of the court appear
in the record indicates that the court excluded the evidence

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO. 37
Opinion of the Court.

offered first, and- then, with a view to protect the defendant,
struck out upon their request, that portion of their plea,
which alleged that the certificates were honestly made and
that they were procured without 'fraudulent intent or false
representation.
It is respectfully submitted to this court that the trial below
was so managed as to avoid and evade those tests winch
Congress and this court expected and intended should be
applied in the trial of this case.
Afr A. B. Browne and Ar Joohn F Dillob for appellee.
.Afr A. T Britton was on ffr .Browne'sbrief.
Mr.JUSTICE BREwiR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The burden of complaint in this case is, that the Circuit
Court erred in restricting the scope of the inquiry The
government sought to introduce testimony to show that the
road was never in fact constructed, as required by the act of
Congress, and also that the certificates of the governors,
made as provided by section 4 of the act of 1864, were
obtained by fraud and misrepresentation, as averred, in the
bill. But all of this testimony was excluded, and the inquiry
limited to the single question whether the Land Company
was a bonaftde purchaser.
The first plea of the Land Company recited the fact that
three several certificates had been issued by-governors of the
State of Oregon, to the effect that the road had been completed as required by the act of Congress, and added, "that
each-of said several certificates was made honestly and in
good faith and without any fraudulent intent or procurement
or false representation -by any person whomsoever." But upon
application to the Circuit Court this clause in the plea was
stricken out, leaving it to contain simply an averment of the
certificates of the governorg, and as these had been set out at
length in the bill, there was no issue of, fact presented by this
plea. The other plea was that the Land Company was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

purchaser in good faith, and to that question, as heretofore
stated, the inquiry was restricted.
There was no error n this ruling. The decision of this
court, as reported in 140 U S. 599, was that "the decree of
the Circuit Court, so far as it dismisses the bill, must be
reversed and the case be remanded to that court with a
direction to allow the plaintiffs to reply to and join issue on
the pleas," and the mandate which was sent to the Circuit
Court recited this direction. That decision was the law of
tins case for the subsequent proceedings in that court. There
was no adjud'>ation that the pleas were insufficient in law,
on the contrary, the plain implication of the opinion was that
they were sufficient, and the question which was remanded to
that court for inquiry was as to their truthfulness. There
was no adjudication of insufficiency and no rehearing ordered
on that question. If the government was not satisfied with
the decision, it should have called our attention to it. and
have sought a modification or enlargement of the decree.
The Circuit Court properly construed it, and proceeded in
obedience thereto to permit the government to join issue on
the pleas, and to entertain an inquiry as to their truthfulness,
and that was the only matter open for inquiry
Indeed, that would have been the rule if there had been no
decision of this court, and if in the first instance issue had
been joined on the plaas. It is true that the statute directed
that these suits be brought "to determine the questions of the
seasonable and proper completion of said roads," and "the
legal effect of the several certificates of the governors;" and
upon that counsel for the government insists that its mandate
was that there should be full inquiry as to these matters; but
that statute also provided "that said suit or suits shall be
tried and adjudicated in like manner and by the same principles and rules of jurisprudence as other suits in equity are
therein tried," and the unquestionable right,of a defendant
in an equity suit is to let the facts averred in the bill go
unchallenged, and by plea set up some special matter, which,
if established and sufficient, will defeat any recovery Even
if it were within the competency of Congress to compel every

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO. 39
Opinion of the Court.
party named as defendant to a suit in equity'brought by it,
to bear all the expenses and submit to all the delay of a prolonged inquiry into the truth of the facts averred in the bill,,
it is obvious from the language we have quoted from the
statute that Congress did not, intend to deprive any party of
the rights ordinarily vested in defendants in suits in equity
If the sole purpose were to ascertain by judicial investigation
whether the roads were in fact completed as required, that
purpose could have been accomplished by making defendants
only the original parties, the wrongdoers. If other parties
than they were made defendants, as is the fact here, such
parties, within the terms of the statute, had the right by plea
to set up any special matter which as to them constituted a
full defence, and as between such parties and the government,
the inquiry, by settled rules of equity, was then limited to
such matter.
In .Far6ey v KYittson, 120 U S. 303, 314, 315, 316, the
nature and functions of a plea were fully discussed. It was
said "But the proper office of a plea is not, like an answer,.
to meet all the allegations of the bill, nor like a demurrer, admitting those allegations, to deny the equity of the bill, but it
is to present some distinct fact, which of itself creates a bar to
the suit, or to the part to which the plea applies, and thus to
avoid the necessity of- making the discovery asked for, and
the expense of going into-the evidence at large. Mitford P1..
(4th ed.) 14, 219, 295, Story Eq. Pl. § 649, 652.
'" The plaintiff may either set down the plea for argument,
or file a replication to it. If he sets dowiv the plea for argument, he thereby admits the truth of all the facts stated in the
plea, and merely denies their sufficiency in point of law to
prevent his recovery If, on the other hand, he replies to the
plea, joining issue upon the facts averred in it, and so puts the
defendant to.the trouble and expense of proving his plea, he
thereby, according to the English chancery practice, admits
that, if the particular facts stated in the plea are true, they are
sufficient in law to bar his recovery, and if they are proved
to be true, the bill must be dismissed, without -reference to the
equity arising fror. any other facts stated in the bill. Mitford

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Pl. 302, 303, Story Eq. Pl. § 697. That practice in this particular has been twice recognized by this court. Bughes v
Blake, 6 Wheat. 453, 472, Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 14
Pet. 210, 257."
And again "In a case so heard, decided by this court in
1808, Chief Justice Marshall said. ' In this case the merits of
the claim cannot be examined. The only questions before this
court are upon the sufficiency of the plea to bar the action,
and the sufficiency of the testimony to support the plea as
pleaded.' Stead v Course,4 Cranch, 403, 413. In a case before
the House of Lords a year afterwards, Lord ]Redesdale 'observed, that a plea was a special answer to a bill, differing in
this from an answer in the common form, as it demanded the
judgment of the court, in the first instance, whether the
special matter urged by it did not debar the plaintiff from his
title to that answer which the bill required. If a plea were
allowed, nothing remained in issue between the parties, so far
as the plea extended, but the truth of the matter pleaded.'
'Upon a plea allowed, nothing is in issue between the parties
but the matter pleaded, and the averments added to support the
plea.' ' Upon argument of a plea, every fact stated in the bill,
and not denied by answer in support of the plea, must be taken
for true.' Roche v .Morgell, 2 Sch. & Lef. '721, 725-727."
The right, therefore, of this defendant, the California and
Oregon Land Company, to avail itself of a plea cannot be
doubted, and the plea which it made in this case, that of a
bona fide purchaser, is one favored in the law In the act
directing these suits was a clause "saving and preserving the
rights of all bona ide purchasers of either of said grants, or
of any portion of said grants, for a valuable consideration,
if any such there be." In Story's Equity Jurisprudence, section 411, the author says "Indeed, purchasers of this sort
[bonafide purchasers] are so much favored in equity, that it
may be stated to be a doctrine now generally establishld, that
a bona fide purchaser for a valuable consideration, without
notice of any defect in his title at the time of his purchase,
may lawfully buy in any statute, mortgage or other encumbrance upon the same estate for his protection.. If he can

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO. 41
Opinion of the Court.

defend himself by any of them at law, his adversary will have
no help in equity to set these encumbrances aside, for equity
will not disarm such a purchaser, but will act upon the wise
policy of the common law, to protect and quiet lawful possessions, and strengthen such titles." And the reason of this is
given in Boone v. Cdiles, 10 Pet. 177, 210, as follows "This
leads to the reason for protecting an innocent purchaser, holding the legal title, against one who has the prior equity, a
court of equity can act only on the conscience of a party, if
he has done nothinp that taints it, no demand can attach upon
Strong as a plainit, so as to give any iurisdiction.
tiff's equity may be, it can in no case be stronger than that of
a purchaser, who has put himself in peril by purchasing a
title, and paying a valuable consideration; without notice of
any defect in it, or adverse claim to it." See, also, ZLa v
Polk County Coper Co., 21 How 493, 497, 498, Croxall v"
Sererd, 5 Wall. 268.
In United States v Burlington &. Railroad Co., 98 U. S.
334, 342, it was said "It [the United States] certainly could
not insist upon a cancellation of the patents so as to affect
innocent purchasers under the patentees." And, again, in
Colorado Coal Company v United States, 123 U. S. 307, 313
"It is fully established by the evidence that there were in fact
no actual settlements and improvements on any of the lands,
as falsely set out in the affidavits in support of the pre~mption
claims and in'the certificates issued thereon. This undoubtedly constituted a fraud upon the United States sufficient in
equity as against the parties perpetrating it, or those claiming
under them with noticeof it, to justify the cancelJation of the
patents issued to them. But it is not such a fraud as prevents
the -passing of the legal title by the patents. It follows that
to a bill in equity to cancel the patents upon these grounds
alone the defence of a bona fide purchaser for value without
notice is perfect."
The Land Company, therefore, had a right to set up a
special plea, and the plea which it did set up, that of -a bona
fide purchaser, was sufficient if true. And this brings us to an
inquiry as to whether this plea was sustained by the testi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

mony The purchase was made by a party of gentlemen
living in California, in the spring and fall of 1874, the first
purchase being of an undivided one-half, and the second of the
remaining moiety Ten persons were named as grantees in
the first deed, and eleven in thd second, some of whom were
also grantees in the first. The title remained thus distributea
among these several individuals until 1877, when, for convenience in the care and sale of the property, they all united in a
conveyance of their respective interests to the California and
Oregon Land Company, of which they were the stockholders.
The price for these lands, $200,000, was paid, and paid in ash,
the several purchasers each contributing his respective proportion. Since the purchase they hate expended in the care of
the property,.includingtaxes, $140,000, while their receipts for
sales and rentals amount to only about $23,000. More than
half of the parties interested in the purchase died before the
taking of testimony in this suit. The survivors were all called
as witnesses, and each for him~elf testified, as .strongly as
language can express it, that his purchase was made in good
faith, that he had no knowledge of any defect in the title, or
of anythIng wrong in the actions of the Mlilitary Road Coinpany, or of any failure on its part to fully construct the road.
There was no opposing testiniopy, and if the question be one
simply of fact,.there can be no doubt that these parties were
honafde purchasers within the rule laid down in 2 Pomeroy
Eq. Jur., § 745, to wit "The essential elements which constitute a bonafide purchase are, therefore, three: a valuable consideration, the absence of notice, and presence of good Taith."
Indeed; counsel for the government does not seriously dispute
that this is the necessary conclusion from the testimony In
this connection it is worthy of notice that the purchasers,
when their attention was called to the fact that this property
was for sale, sent an agent to Oregon to examine into the
matter. While such agent is dead, and what he ascertained is,
therefore, not affirmatively shown, yet it does appear that, to
the survivors, at least, of the purchasers, lie brought no intimation or suggestion of any defect in the tie of the land.
On the contrary, an abstract of title was presented to them,

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO. 43
Opinion of the Court.

showing the certificates of the governors of the completion of
the work, together with an opinion from the firm of Mitchell
& Dolph, two of the leading lawyers in the State of Oregon,
that the title of the Road Company was perfect.
Further, the significance of the certificates of the governors,
as an independent matter in this inquiry, must not be overlooked. Under the decision in Land Company v Courtright,
21 Wall. 310, the title to the first thirty sections did not
depend on the completion of the road, and with respect to the
residue of the land, the fourth section of the act of 1864 gave
to the governor of the State the power to determine when it
should be fully earned, for it reads that "when the governor
of said State shall certify to the Secretary of the Interior that
any continuous ten miles of said road are completed, then
another quantity of land hereby granted, not to exceed thirty
sections, may be sold, and so from time to time until said road
is completed." And because there was no express provision
for the issue of, former patents, the' act of 1874, Wihich took
effect intermediate the first and second deeds from the Road
Company, provided, that when the roads were "shown by the
certificate of the governor of the State of Oregon, as in said
acts provided, to have been constructed and completed, patents
for said lands shall issue in due- form to the State" or its
grantee. .Now, it is familiar law that when jurisdiction ls
delegated to any- office or tribunal, his or its determination is
conclusive. Thus in the case of United'States v- Arrdondo,
6 Pet. 691, 729, this court said. "It is a. universal principle,
that, where power or jurisdiction is delegated to any public
officer or tribunal over a subject-matter, and its exercise is
confided to his -ortheir discretion, the acts so done are binding
and valid as to the subject-imatter, -and individual rights wilt
not be disturbed .collaterally for anything done in the exercise
of that discretion within the authority and power conferred.
The only questions 'which can arise between an individual
claiming a right under the acts done, hnff the public, or any
person denving its validity, are, power in the officer, and fraud
in the party- All other. questions are settled by the decision
made or the act done by the'tribunal or officer, whether ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ecutive, (1 Cranch, 170, 171,) legislative, (4 Wheat. 423, 2 Pet.
412, 4 Pet: 563,) judicial, (11 Mass. 227, 11 S. & R. 429,
adopted in 2 Pet. 167, 168,) or special, (20 Johns. 739, 740, 2
Dow P C. 521, etc.,) unless an appeal is provided for, or other
revision, by some appellate or supervisory tribunal, is prescribed
by law"
See also the following cases Foley v Harron,15
How 433, 448, Johnson v Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 83, Smelt-ing Company v _emp, 104 U S. 636, 640, Shepley v Cowan,
9[ U. S. 330, 340, 3foore v Robbzns, 96 U S, 530, '535,
Quznby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420, 426, Steel v Smelthng Co.,
106 U. S. 447, 450, Leeo.v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48, 51, lVmnght
v. Roseberr , 121 U. S. 488, 509.
It is .true that the bill alleges that these certificates were
procured by the Road Company by and through the false and
fraudulent representations of its officers, agents, etc., and also
true that the averment in the first plea, that the certificates
well made honestly and in good faith, was stricken out, and
testimony offered to show the way in which the certificates
were obtained was rejected. Therefore, as the inquiry is now
presented, it must be in the light of the uncontested allegation
th4$the certificates were obtained through the fraudulent acts
of the Road Company It may be that, in view-of this situation of affairs, the Road Company could not avail itself of
such determinations by the governors as decisive of its title,
and"it may also be that the purchasers are likewise precluded
from claiming that these determinations are in and of themselveg conclusive in-their favor, but at the same tine they are
significant with respect to that element of good faith, which
consists in diligence. The testimony shows that the purchasers knew of nothing wrong in respect to the title, or the
proceedings of the Road Company, or-any officials connected
with the transfer of title. -They knew that determination of
the question as to, the completion of the road was committed
by the statute to the governor of the State. They saw his
adjudication upon that question, and it may well be held that
,they took all the acttve measures which under the circumstances they could be required to take when they ascertained
that the authorized official, and that official the chief executive

UN'ITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA &c. LAND CO. 45
Opinion of the Court.
of 'the State, the grantee named in the Congressional act, had
officially determined that the road wa completed, there being
nothing in any of the circumstances surrounding the parties to
suggest a suspicion of wrong. Can it be that they must be
adjudged derelict in diligence because they did not make a
personal exam~nation of the road, .and determine for themselves whether it was in its entire length completed so as to
-satisfy all of the terms of the grant 2 If'a patent from the
government be presented, surely a purchaserfrom the patentee
is not derelict, and does not fail in such diligence and care as
are required to make him a bona f de purchaser, because lie
relies upon the determination made by the land officers of the
government in executing the patent, and does not institute a
personal inquiry into all the anterior transactions upon which
the patent rested.
As against these evidences and conclusions of good faith but
a single proposition is raised, one upon which the dissenting
judge in the Circuit Court of Appeals rested his opinion, and
that is the proposition that the conveyances from the. Road
Company were only quitclaim deeds, and that a purchaser,
holding under such a deed cannot be a bon¢a f#de purchaseri
and in support of this proposition reference is made to the
following cases in this court Oliver v.".Pat, 3 How 333,
410, Parn, Reneselaer v .Kearney, I I How 297, .May v. 1e
Clare, 11 Wall. 217, 232, Villa v Rodrtguez, 12 Wall. 323,
339, .Dswkerso, v Colgrove, 100 U S. 578, Baker v Rumphrey, 101 U. S. 494, 7anmck7 v Patrok, 119 U S. 156.
The argument, briefly stated, is that he who will give only a
quitclaim deed in effect notifies his vendee that there is some
defect in his title, and the latter,'taking with such notice, takes
at his peril. It must be confessed that there are expressions
n the opinions in the cases referred to which go to the full
length of this proposition. Thus, in Baker v. Ilumyhrey, 101
U. S. 494, 499, Mr. Justice Swayne, in delivering the opinion
-of the court, uses this language. "Neither of them was.i any
sense a bona fide purchaser. No one taking a quitclaim deed
can stand in that relation." Yet it may be remarked that in.
none of these cases was it necessary to go to the full extent of.

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

denying absolutely that a, party taking a quitclain deed- could
be a bona fide purchaser; and in the later case of McDonald
v Belding, 145 U S.492, it was held, in a case coming from
Arkansas, and in harmony with the rulings of the Supreme
Court of that State, that while ordinarily a person holding
under a quitclain deed may be presumed to have had knowledge of imperfections in his vendor's title, yet that the rule
was not universal, and that one might become a bonafide purchaser for value although holding under a deed of that kind,
and in that case the grantee so holding was protected -as a bona
jide purchaser while in the case of .loelM v Sheiwood, just
decided, ante, 21, the general question was examined,,and it
was held that -the receipt of a quitclaim deed does not of
itself prevent a party from, becoming a bona fide holder, and
the expressions to the contrary,. in previous opinions, were
distinctly disaffirmed.
But, further, and e-ven if the doctrine were now recognized
to be as heretofore stated, this fact would take the case out
from the reach of the rule. The title passed from the Rad
Company to the purchasers by four conveyances two from
the Road Company to one Pengra, its' agent and superintendent, and two from Pengra to the purchasers. Now, the deeds
from Pengra are not quitclains, they-do not purport to be
merely releases of his right,,title and interest, but are strictly
deeds of bargain and sale. The granting clause is in these
words "The said parties of the first part have aliened, released, granted, bargained, sold, and by these presents they do
alien, release, grant, bargain, sell and convey unto the said
parties of the second part, their heirs and assigns, in proportions hereafter specified, the equal undivided one-half (J)of all
and singular the lands lying and being in the State of Oregon,
granted or intended to oe granted to the State of Oregon by
act of Congress," etc. And the iabendum is "To have and
to hold all and singular -the lands and premises hereby conveyed, to wit, said undivided one-half of all the above-described
grant of lands listed and to be listed, and all the right, title
and interest of the party of the first parl therein."
Such a deed is clearly something more than one of quit.

D-NITED STATES- v. 'CALIFORNrA&c. LAND CO. 47
Opinion of the Court.

claim and relkase, it is a deed-of largam and, sale,. aiqd will
convey an after-acquired title. Such is the ruling of- the Supreme Court of Oregon. Taggart: v _?zsley, 4 Oregon, 235.
Now, even in those courts in which. the. rule was announced,
that one who takes under a quitclaim deed- cannot be a bona,
Xde purchaser, it was sometimes limited to the grantee-in such
a deed, and not extended to those cases in which a quitclaim
was only a prior conveyance imthe chain of title. -Snowden-v.
TyZer, 21 Nebraska, 199. And thiS.is certitnly-a most-reasonable limitation, because the rule is obviously, at the-best; arbitrary and technical, for a party who receives a quitclaim deed
may act in the utmost good -faith; and in fact bb ignorant or
any defrct in the title, and this, although he has-made the
most complete and painstaking investigation, and only takes
the quitclaim deed because the. grantor, for -expressed and
satisfactory reasons, declines to give -a warranty_ Iftwould
be,unfortunate, in view of the fact that an so many-chains-of
title there are found quitclaim deeds, to-extend -apurely arbitrary rule so as to make the fact of-such a deed notice of-any
prior defect in the title.
- It may be said that the real transaction was between.the
Road Company and the -purchasers, that the agent andsuperintendent of the Road Company was, merely a gobetween, a conduit through which the title: passed from the
Road Company to- tWe .purchasers-, and that -the spirit,-if not
the letter of the rule, requires that the form of'conveyance
used by the Road- Company should be. controlling -as-to the
bonajideaof the purchasers. But as it -is;,wherever enforced;
a.merelytechnical and ,arbitrary rule, justice reqmres.thab it,
should not be carried beyond its express terms, nor used to
disprove the good faith which, in this case, all the other
testinony shows in fact existed an the purchasers- And in
this. respect it is well to consider the -obvious reason for the
itself, execute a
unwillingness of the Road Company
warrantydeed. The original act: of 1864'said nothing.about
patents, it simply granted the-lands to the- State, and authorized- their sale; and only after the arrangement had been
=n de fpghe'p-rcbse of one-half of these lands, and:-.the
-to-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

conveyances made. therefor, was the act of 1874 passed, providing in terms for patents. The claim of the Road Company
was, that their title was a perfect legal title, even without a
patent, and yet there being a doubt in respect thereto -a
doubt. which was solved only by the act of 187,-it was
not strange that it- preferred. to quitclaim its interest in the
granted lands rather than to formally convey them by a
warranty of the legal title. But it is not to be inferred therefrom, as a matter of law, that the Road Company in any way
doubted its full equitable title, or that, by the fact of a quitclaim, it notified the purchasers of any other matter than this
omission in Ithe statute. On the contrary, the plain import of
the language used in the conveyance from the Road Company
to.Pendra was that it intended to convey the lands which it
had received under the grant, and to which it believed it then
had a full equitable, if not legal, title. Our conclusions, therefore, are that the decision of the Circuit Court and the Court
of Appeals was correct.
Before closing this opinion, we think it proper to notice one
matter which, though of no significance in determining the
legal rights of the parties, may throw light upon the transaction, and perhaps relieve the original donee of the grant by
the State, the Road Company, from the imputation of wrong
cast upon it by the filing of this bill. The grant was made
in 1864, and the last certificate of the governor of Oregon
was dated' the 12th of January; 1870. The memorial of the
-legislature of the State of Oregon was adopted in 1885, that
memorial which induced the act of Congress and this litigation. In other words, the State of Oregon and its citizens,
including those living along this road, remained silent for
firteen years after its alleged completion. The terms of the
original grant were limited -to the construction of the road,
and imposed no duty of thereafter keeping it in good condition. Having earned the grant by' constructing the road, it
may well be that the Road Company took no further interest
in it; and an ordihary wagon-road, uncared for during fifteen
yeaws, particularly that part of it which runs through mountainous country, would be.almost completely destroyed by the

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD.

49

lNames of, Counsel.
action of the elements, and so it may be that those, who in
1884: and 1885 investigated the matter, found little semblance
of a road, and hence concluded, though erroneously, that none
was ever constructed, and from, this the complaint, the memorial, and the litigation proceeded, and this is consistent
with the fact that the Road Company fully discharged its
duty and fairly earned the lands. Of course, this is a mere
suggestion, but it has the probabilities in its favor, and relieves all parties from condemnation. But whether this be
true or not, for the reasons we have heretofore stated, our
conclusion is clear that the title of the purchasers and the
Land Company is beyond challenge.
The decree w affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. DALLES MILITARY ROAD COmPANY.
Appeal
from the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, for the Ninth
Circuit. No. 1159, argued with No. 1073.
BREWER, J. The questions in this case -are substantially the
same as those in No. 1073, United States v Californsa & Oregon
Land Company. It is unnecessary, theifdie,"to state the'facts in
detail, and it is sufficient to say that the same decree of affirmance
will be entered.

MrM.
4sszstant Attorney General Parkerfor appellants.
.M1r. James K. Kelly for appellees.
VOL. CXLVma-4

