OCTOBER TERM. 1892.
Statement of the Case.

MONONGAHELA NAVIG-ATION COMPAINY V.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 722. Argued October 25, 26, 1892.-Decided March 2T, 1893.
In the proceedings taken under the act of August 11, 1888, 25 Stat. 'pp. 400,
411, c. 860, to condemn lock and dam No. 7 of the Monongahela Navigation Company, that company is entitled under the provisions of the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, to recover compensation from the
United States for the taking of the franchise to exact tolls, as well as
for the value of the tangible property taken.
The assertion by Congress of its purpose to take the property which that
company had constructed in the Monongahela River by authority of the
State of Pennsylvania did not destroy the franchise granted to the company 4y the State.
.Bridge Company v. United States, 105 U. S. 470, distinguished from this
case.

BY the act of August 11, 1888, 25 Stat. 400, 411, c. 860,
Congress, among other things, enacted
"The Secretary of War be, and is hereby, authorized and
directed to negotiate for and purchase, at a cost not to exceed
one hundred and sixty-one thousand, seven hundred and thirtythree dollars, and thirteen cents, lock and dam number seven,
otherwise known as 'the Upper Lock and Dam,' and its
appurtenances, of the Ttfonongahela NTavigation Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of Pennsylvania, which
lock and dam number seven and its appurtenances constitute a
part of the improvements in water communication in the
Monongahela River, between Pittsburgh, in the State of Pennsylvania, and a point at or near Morgantown, in the State of
West Virginia. And the sum of one hundred and sixty-one
thousand, seven hundred and thirty-three dollars and thirteen
cents, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby
appropriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for consummating said purchase, the same

MO0NONGAHELA 1NAVIGAT'IN CO. v. UNITED STATES. 313
Statement of the Case.

to be paid on the warrant of the Secretary of War, upon full
and absolute conveyance to the United States of the said lock
and dam number seven, and its appurtenances, of the said
Monongahela Navigation Company
"In the event of the inability of the Secretary of War to
make voluntary purchase of said lock and dam number seven
and its appurtenances for said sum of one hundred and sixtyone thousand, seven hundred and thirty-three -dollars and
thirteen cents, or a less sum, then the Secretary of War is
hereby authorized and directed to institute and carry to completion proceedings for the condemnation of said lock and
dam number seven and its appurtenances, said condemnation
proceedings to be as prescribed and regulated by the provisions of the general railroad law of Pennsylvania, approved
:February nineteenth, eighteen hundred and'forty-nine, and its
supplements, except that the United States shall not be required to give any bond, and except that jurisdiction of said
proceedings ishereby given to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of P3ennsylvania, with right of
appeal by either party to the Supreme Court of the United
States Prowded, That in estimating the sum to be paid by
the United States, the franchise of said corporation to collect
tolls shall not be considered or estimated, and the sum of
five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary,
is hereby appropriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not
otherwise appro )fiated, to pay the necessary costs of said condemnation proceedings, and upon final judgment being entered
therein the Secretary of War is hereby authorized and directed
to draw his warrant on the Treasury for the amount of said
judgment and costs, and said amount for the payment thereof
ishereby appropriated out of any moneys in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated. And when said lock and dam number seven and its appurtenances shall have been acquired by
the United States, whether by purchase or condemnation, the
Secretary of War shall take charge thereof, and the same shall
thereafter be subject to the provisions of section four of an
act, entitled ' An act making appropriations for the construction, repair and preservation for certain public work on rivers

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case

and harbors, and for other purposes,' approved July fifth,
eighteen hundred and eighty-four."
The effort at a voluntary purchase failing, on December 1,
1S88, proceedings of condemnation were commenced in the
Circuit Court-of the United States for the Western District
of Pennsylvania. Viewers were appointed, who reported the
value of the look and dam number seven to be $209,393.52.
Such valuation did not take into account the franchise of the
company to collect tolls. An appeal was taken, as provided
by the statutes of Pennsylvania, which appeal gave the right
to a trial de novo, according to the course of the common law
A jury having been waived, the matter was tried before the
.court, the Navigation Company being the plaintiff as to the
question of amount of compensation. These facts appeared
on the trial
"In 1836, the State of Pennsylvania incorporated and by
acts in that and subsequent years granted to the Monongahela
Navigation Company the rilght 'to enter upon the said river
Monongahela and upon the lands on either side, and to use
the rocks, stone, gravel or earth which may be found thereon
in the construction of their works,
and to form and
make, erect and set up any dams, looks or any other device
whatsoever which they shall think most fit and convenient,
to make a complete slack-water navigation between the points
herein mentioned, to wit the city of Pittsburgh and the
Virginia State line.'
"The Monongahela River rises in the mountains of West
Virginia, flows northwardly through Pennsylvania to Pittsburgh, where it forms a junction-with the Allegheny and Ohio
IRivers.
"In pursuance of its charter the Naxigation Company,
betwee6 1841 and the present time, has constructed in said
river seven locks and dams, which together now carry the
slack-water navigation asfar as the West Virginia State line.
"Prior to the construction of said company's works, that is
to say, prior ta the year 1841,.the navigation of theMononi
gahela River was conducted altogether in small vessels,
including small steamboats of not exceeding a tonnage of fifty

MONO GAHELA N~AIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 315
Statement of the Case.
tons, which could not ascend the river at all seasons, but only
during limited periods, depending on the rise in the river.
-The trade or commerce on said river, prior to its improvement
by said company's works, was small, particularly in the article
of coal, for which the river in its natural condition did not
furnish sufficient harbors or places of shipment at all seasons
of the year, but by the construction and maintenance of said
company's works there has been created an existing navigation for large steamboats at all seasons of the year, and
facilities for a large commerce, particularly in the article of
coal, of which there is now transported in a single day as
much as was, before the construction of the company's works,
transported in an entire year.
"The construction of the lock and dam No. 'l, the property
attempted to be appropriated in this proceeding, by the M[onongahela Navigation Company, was begun in the year 1882
and completed in 1884, being the last one built, and completing
the company's inprovements in the State of Pennsylvania.
"The work-was commenced under the following circumstances
"It was provided by an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, constituting a supplement to the company's charter,
approved April 8, 1857, that whenever the construction of
sufficient locks and dams to extend the slack water on the
Monongahela River from the Pennsylvania State line to
Morgantown, in Virginia, shall have been commenced, it shall
be the duty of- the Monongahela Navigation -Company to
commence the construction of lock and dam No. 7 in such
manner and on such plan as-will extend the navigation from
its -present terminus to The Virginia State line, and complete
the same simultaneously with the completion of the work
extending to Morgantown."
On March 3,'1881, Congress passed an act, 21 Stat. 468, 471,
c. 136, among other-things appropriating $25,000 for improving the Monongahela River 'in West ,Virginia and Pennsylvania with this proviso
"But this sum shall not be expended until the Monongahela
Navigation Company shall have undertaken in good faith the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

building of lock and dam number seven at Jacob's Creek,
and until said company shall, in manner satisfactory to the
Secretary of War, give assurance of their ability and purpose
to complete the same."
After the passage of this act, and on March 24, 1881,
Colonel Win. E. Merrill, the engineer and officer in charge
of the public works of the United States on the river Monongahela, addressed this letter to the Navigation Company
"U. S. ENGINE's OFFICE, CUSTom-HousE,

"C CiNT~i, 0., .March 24, 1881.
"Hon. J K. IMOORHEAD, .P]estdent .Mon. . av. Co., Pitsburgh, Pa.
"SI
The last river and harbor bill contains the following
appropriation
Improving Monongahela River, West Virginia and Pennsylvania, $25,000, but this sum shall not be expended until
the Monongahela Navigation Company shall have undertaken
in good faith the building of lock and dam number seven, at
Jacob's Creek, and until said company shall, in manner
satisfactory to the Secretary of War, give assurance of their
ability and purpose to complete the same.'
"You will, therefore, see that my work on number eight is
wholly dependent on your work on number seven.
"I have, therefore, to urge on your company that you will,
at the earliest date possible, 'undertake in good faith the
building of lock and dam number seven,' and that you will
give the Secretary of War satisfactory assurance of your
ability and purpose to complete it.
"I would, therefore, suggest that it might be useful for your
secretary to communicate at once to the Secretary .of War
such facts as to the financial resources of the company and its
intentions about number seven as will satisfy him on the points
specially left to his discretion, and unlock the appropriation
so that it may be used this summer.
"Rernectfully, your obedient servant,
"Wr. E. ME ILL,
".ta .. Fng'rs & B'v't Col."

ONOGAHELA NAVIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 317
Statement of the Case.
Whereupon, and on April 6, ISSI, the rollowing resolutions
were passed by the iNavigation Company, notice of which was
given to the Secretary of War
"Whereas Congress has made an appropriation for the
commencement of the building of lock and dam number eight
in the Monongahela River, the payment of which appropriation is made to depend upon the Secretary of War being
satisfied of the boncafide intention of this company to construct
lock and dam number seven, and of their financial ability to
complete the same, and
"1Whereas Col. Merrill, of the United States engineers, in
charge of the government improvement of the Monongahela
River, has requested this company to furnish the Secretary of
War with satisfactory assurances in relation thereto Therefore
"Resolved, That it is the bonaftde purpose and intention of
this company to construct lock and dam number seven in the
Monongahela River in the manner and at the time required of
them by the acts of assembly of the State of Pennsylvaniathat is to say, so to complete said lock and dam number seven
that the same shall be ready for use as soon as the requisite
locks and dams above lock and dam-number seven, constructed
or about to be constructed by the Federal Government, shall
also be finished and ready for use, so as to complete the slack
water of said river from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to Morgantown, Virginia.
"Resolved, That the secretary of this company be directed
to forward a copy of the foregoing resolution, together with
copies of the company's annual report showing the intention
of the company and their ability to complete this work, to
Col. Merrill and also to the Secretary of War."
And on May 4, 1881, Col. Merrill addressed the following
letter to the President of the Navigatmon Company
"Sm
I have just received official notice from the Secretary of War, through the Chief 6f Engineers, that the resolution and documents relative to the construction of lock and
dam No. 7, on the Monongahela River, forwarded to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

office by your company in April last, (duplicate sent to the
honorable Secretary of War,) have been considered as fully
meeting the requirements of the proviso in the last appropriation for the improvement of the above-named river, prohibiting
the expenditure of the money appropriated, ' until the Monongahela Navigation Company shall have undertaken in good
faith the building of lock and dam No. 'T at Jacob's Creek,
and until said company shall, in a manner satisfactory to the
Secretary of War, give assurance of their ability and purpose
to complete the same.'
Thereafter, and in 1882, lock and dam number seven were
commenced and completed in 1884. In the course of the trial
the company called a witness, and offered to prove by him and
other witnesses
"That the paid-up capital stock of the Monongahela Navigation Company consists of thirty-two thousand, six hundred
and thirty-nine shares of fifty dollars; that dividends have
been declared on the stock for a number of years at the rate
of twelve per cent per annum.
" That the tolls received by the said company for the use of
its works, including lock and dam No. 7, have averaged for
several years past not less than $240,000, that the market
value of the stock was at the time of the inception of these
proceedings about $100' per share, that the money value of
their entire works and franchise is not less than $4,000,000,
that the actual toll receipts of lock and dam No. 7 for several
years past have exceeded $2800 per annum, and that a very
large increase of such toll receipts at lock and dam No. 7 will
certainly take place in a short time by the development of
coal mines naturally tributary to said lock and dam.
"That by the construction and maintenance of the company's works a permanent and reliable public highway has
been created on which a large and increasing carriage of coal
and general merchandise takes place, and that permanent
navigation for the largest vessel and steamboat now exists
from the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to or near the line
between the States of Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
"1That in view of the present and prospective tolls receivable

MONONGAkELA NAYIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 3i9
Counsel for Appellant.

at lock and dam No. ', -the present value of said lock and dam
No. -7 is not less than $450,000, said value being predicated
upon said present and prospective tolls, that said lock and
dam No. 7 are a portibn of said company's works, which consist of seven dams, each furnished with a lock or locks.
"That the navigation which is sought by these proceedings
to be made free was mainly created and made possible at all
seasons by the construction and maintenance of the company's
works.
"That a large portion of the tolls received by the company
is charged upon merchandise and articles carried between
points of shipment and delivery entirely within the State of
Pennsylvania, and constituting internal commerce of said
State, and that a portion of the tolls collectible at lock and
dam No. 7, for the use of said lock and dam, is clargeable for
merchandise, goods and passengers carried between points of
shipment and delivery in the State of Pennsylvania, the transportation being wholly within the State as to said portion.
"To which offer of testimony counsel for the United States
objected, for the reason that the same was incompetent and
irrelevant; whereupon the court sustained the- objection, and
rejected the evidence."
The result of the trial was a finding by the court that the
value of the lock and darn number seven was $209,000, "not
considering or estimating in this decree the franchise of this
company to collect tolls." Such amount was the sum adjudged
and decreed to be paid by the United States to the Navigation Company for the property condemned. The company
brought the case to this court by both writ of error and appeal.
.Mn" Wayne iHc'Veagk-and .r
Johns 31c Cleave, (with
whom was -M Thomas D Carnahanon the brief,) for appei!
lant and plaintiff in error, cited Cardwell v Amerscan Bide
Co., 113 U. S. 205, Willson v .Blackbzrd Creek _a1rs4 Co., 2
Pet. 245, Pound v. Turcek,- 95 U. S. 459, Iluse v Glover, 119
U. S. 543, Sands v. .fanzstee River Imp.)rovement Co., 123
U. S. 288, Charles A zver Brzdge v Warren Bridge, 11 Pet.
420, ]Pennsylvanza Railroad v. Balt. & Ohio Railroad,60

OCTOBER TERN, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

Maryland, 263, Commonwealth v Pittsburgh&Connellsvillv
Railroad,58 Penn. St. 26, 1somr v 21iss. Central Railroad,
36 Mississippi, 300, United States v GreatFalls .Mfg. Co., 112
U. S. 64-5, Brzdge Company v United States, 105 U. S. 470,
County of X,obile y Kimball, 102 U S. 691, Packet Co. v
Keokukt, 95 U. S. 80, ifontgomery County v Schuylkill
Bridge Co., 110 Penn. St. 5-4.
.Mr Attorney General and Mr Solicitor General for
appellees and defendants in error.
The principal question at bar is whether the proviso in the
River and Harbor Act of August 11, 1888, is valid. This
question was raised in various forms upon the trial, the contention of the appellant being that the franchise is no less
property than the material structure of the look and dam, and
that therefore the same cannot be taken or destroyed by the
government, directly or indirectly, without compensation.
On behalf of the government, on the contrary, it was claimed
by the district attorney, and held by the court, that the right
of the United States to regulate and absolutely control the
navigation of the Monongahela River was supreme and paramount, that it was not within the power of the State to grant
to any corporation or persons a franchise in, or connected
with, the navigation of said river which was not wholly subordinate to the rights of the United States; that any franchise
granted by the State had, as matter of law, necessarily within
it, as a condition, that it might be terminated at any time
by an act of the United States, and that therefore no injury
entitled to compensation could accrue to any party claiming
such franchise, by reason of the exercise of such paramount
right by the United States.
I. Has the appellant, as against the United States, a
vested property in the franchise to maintain and take toll for
the use of this lock and dam 2 By clause 3, section 8, article
1, of the Constitution, there is vested in Congress power "to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes." Under this grant

6'10NGAHELA.NTIGAT'l CO. v. UNITED STAXTES. 32[
Argument for Appellees.

the authority of' Congress.to control-the navigation of all
streams which are highways of commerce between the States
has been uniformly asserted by Congress and never\succ'I6;
fully *denied in the courts. It is true -there are numerous
decisions upholding the exercise of. a regulating .power over
such channels of commerce by the States, but-in every case it
has been admitted that such exerc.s, could be- upheld only
because andtso long as Congress f~ilea to assert its jurisdiction.
It.is presumed that it wi. not be questioned by appellants
that the Monongahela- River, at the point under discussion,
was a navigable channel of interstate commerce. Certainly
such a contention could not be successfully maintained.
Escanaba Company v. Chizago, 107 U. S. 678, Barney v
.Hkuk, 94: U. S. 324, The .ftontello, 20 Wall. 430; The
Genesee Ch'ef, 12 How 443, Bridge Co. v. United States,105 U. S. 470, Gilman v rkiladelphza,3 Wall. 713, 'Willamette Brge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1.
In Bridge Co. v. United States, Chief Justice Waite, delivering the opinion of the court, said (at page 479) "the power of
Congress in respect to legislation for the preservation of interstate commerce is just as free from State intefference as any
other subject within the sphere of its legislative authority
The action of Congress is supreme, and -overrides all that the
States can do; Where, therefore, Congress in a proper way
-declares a bridge across a navigable river of the United States
to be an unlawful strqcture, no legislation of a State can make
it lawful. Those who-act on state authority alone necessarily assume all the risks of legitimate Congressional interference," This case is instructive, not only in the clearness of
the ppinion of the Chief Justice, speaking for the majority of
the court, but because the dissenting opinions bring out with
more distinctness the points decided.
In The Willamette Bridge Case, the late Mr. Justice Bradley,
in the opinion of the court, said (p. 12) "We do not doubt
that, Congress, if it saw fit, could thus assume the care of said
streams, in the interest of foreign and interstate commerce,
we only say that, in our opinion, it has not done so by the
clause in question. And although, until Cbngress acts, the
VOL. cxLrvm-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

States have the plenary power supposed, yet, when Congress
chooses to act, it is not concluded by anything that the States,
or individuals by its authority or acquiescence, have done,
from assuming entire control of the matter, and abating any
erections that may have been made, and preventing any others
from being made, except in conformity with such regulations
as it may impose. It is for this reason, viz., the ultimate
(though yet unexerted) power of Congress over the whole
subject matter, that the consent of Congress is so frequently
asked to the erection of bridges over navigable streams. It
might itself give original authority for the erection of such
bridges when called for by the demands of interstate conmerce by land, but in many, perhaps the majority, of cases,
its assent only is asked, and the primary authority is sought
at the hands of the State." The illo.mette Briage and T1e
EscanabaBrtdge cases above cited. See also Gilman v Pdladelhza, 3 Wall. 713, Afartin v _Aott, 12 Wheat. 19, Luther
v. Borden, 7 How 1, 43.
IIl. The foregoing propositions being established, the maintenance of appellant's contention that it has in this franchise
a vested property as against the United States is impossible.
The truth is that in condemning and paying the appellant for
its material improvements Congress makes a concession which
could not have been enforced by law It was entirely competent for Congress to have enacted and enforced a law forbidding the collection of any further tolls by this corporation,
as being an unlawful obstruction or interference with interstate commerce, making in said law no provision whatever for
any payment to the owners of the property It has not, however, seen fit to enforce the extreme legal rights of the Government, but recognizing the large expenditures of money
made by this company, and the equity growing out of such expenditures, provision has been made for the reimbursement of
all such expenditures. V'eazze Bank v _Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 547.
IV But not only is the demand for compensation on account of the destruction of this franchise .unfounded as against
the United States, but such a demand could not be maintained even against the State of Pennsylvania. In the legis-

MEONONGAHELA NAVIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 323
Argument for Appellees.

lation .constituting the charter of appellant, through which
alone it obtains any rights in the premises, the State distinctly
reserved the option to take possession of this property upon
the payment of the cost of material improvements, and expenses, with six per cent interest, less dividends.
In view of these enactments, it is clear that this corporation
has no contract with the State of Pennsylvania for an unlimited franchise. Its property is away. subject to be .taken by
the State as provided in the sections quoted. Much less can
appellant demand compensation for the franchise from the
government of the United States, with which it has no contract in the premises, and which is simply exercising a paramount authority derived directly from the Constitution of the
United States, the supreme law of the land.
V It is said that by the act of' March 3, 1881, (21 Stat.
4171,) Congress has impliedly recognized and confirmed a vested
right in the premises.
To this proposition there are two very ready answers.
First: the legislation of 1881 does ifot by its terms amount
to a contract between 'the government and appellant in the
premises. The Bridge Company v. The United States, 105
U. S.570. Second it is incompetent for a legislature to barter
away or conclude itself in the exercise of any constitutibnal
grant of legislative power. The legislature of. Pennsylvania,
itself, has held that the right of the Navigation Company in
the case at bar is a revocable license. .Mionongahela Naigation Co.v Coons, 6 W & S. 101, Susquehanna Qanal Co. v
Wrzght, 9 W & S. 9, S. C. 42 Am. Dec. 312, New York d
Erie Railroad v Young, 33 Penn. St. 175, JrfcEeen v. .Delaware Canal Co., 49 Penn. St. 42-, .Freeland v Pennsylvania
Railroad,66 Penn. St. 91. See also Bailey v Phil. TVilmr. d
Bait. Railroacl, 4 Harr. (Del.) 389; S. C. 44 Am. Dec. 593,
Rundle v. -Del.& Raritan Canal Co., 14 How 80.
In conclusion, we submit that the power of Congress over this
subject-matter is plen.ry In re Raper, 143 U. S.110, 131.
.fMr C. 1'ewell and XMr _D -T Vatson also filed a brief for
appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of .the court.
It appears from the foregoing statement that the Monongahela Company had, under express authority. from the State of
Pennsylvania, expended large sums of money in improving
the MonQngahela River, by means of locks and dams, and
that the particular lock and dam in controversy were built
not only by virtue of this authority from the State of Pennsylvania, but also at the instance and suggestion of the United
States. By means of these improvements, the Monongahela River, which theretofore was only navigable fop boats
of small tonnage, and at certain seasons of the year, now
carries large steamboats at all seasons, and an extensive commerce by means thereof. The question presented is not
whether the United States has the power to condemn and
appropriate this property of the Monongahela Company, for
that is conceded, but how much it must pay as compensation
therefor. Obviously, this question, as all others which run
along the line of the extent of the protection the individual
has under the Constitution against the demands of the government, is of importance, for in any society the fulness and
sufficiency of the securities which surround the individual in
the use and enjoyment of .his property constitute one of the
most certain tests of the character and value of the government.
The first ten amendments to the Constitution, adopted as they
were soon after the adoption of the Constitution, are in the
nature of a bill of rights, and were adopted in order to quiet
the apprehension of many, that without some such declaration
of rights the government would assume, and might be held
to possess, the power to trespass upon those rights of persons
and property which by the Declaration of Independence were
aftlirmed to be unalienable rights.
In the case of Sinnwekson v Johnson, 17 N. J. L. (2 Harr.)
129, 145, cited in the case of .Pumnelly v Green Bay Company, 13 Wall. 166, 178, it was said that "this power to take
private property reaches back of all constitutional provisions,
and it seems to have been considered a settled principle of uni-

MONONGAHELA NAYIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 325
Opinion of the Court.

versal law that the right to compensation is an incident to the
exercise of that power, that the one is so inseparably connected with the other, that they may be said to exist not as
separate and distinct principles, but as parts of one and the
same principle." And in Gardner v. -Newburgh,2 Johns. Ch.
162, Chancellor Kent affirmed substantially the same doctrine.
And in this thereis a natural equity which commends it to
every one. It in no wise detracts from the power of the public
to take whatever may be necessary for its uses, while, on the
other hand, it prevents the public from loading upon one individual more than his just share of the burdens of government,
and says that when he surrenders to the public something
more and different from that which is exacted from other
members of the public, a full and just equivalent shall be returned to him.
But we need not have recourse to this natural equity, nor is
it necessary to look through the Constitution to the affirmations
lying behind it in the Declaration of Independence, for, in this
Fifth Amendment, there is stated the exact limitation on the
power of the government to take private property for public
uses. And with respect to constitutional provisions of this
nature, it was well said by Mr. Justice Bradlev, speaking for
the court, in Boyd v The United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635
"Illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first
footing in that way, namely, by silent approaches and slight
deviations from legal modes of procedure. This can only be
obviated by adhering to the rule that constitutional provisions
for the security of person and property should be liberally
construed. A close and literal construction deprives them of
half their efficacy, and leads to gradual depreciation of the
right, as if it consisted more in sound than in substance. It is
the duty of courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights
of the citizen, and against any stealthy encroachments thereon.
Their motto should be obstap2-sne?.ciis"'
The language used in the Fifth Amendment in respect to
this matter is happily chosen. The entire amendment is a
series of negations, denials of right or power in the government, the last, the one in point here, being, "'Nor shall private

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opunon of the Court.

property be taken for public use without just compensation."
The noun "compensation," standing by itself, carries the idea
of an equivalent. Thus we speak of damages by way of compensation, or compensatory damages, as distinguished, from
p.unitive or exemplary damages, the former being the equivalent for the injury done, and the latter imposed by way of
punishm~nt. So that if the adjective "just had been omitted,
aqd the provision was simply that property should not -be
taken without compensation, the natural import of the language would be. that the compensation should be the equivalent of the property And this is made emphatic by the
adjective "just.", There can, in view of the combination of
those two words, be no doubt that the compensation must be
a full and perfect equivalent for the property taken. And
this just compensation, it will be noticed, is for the property,
and not to the owner. Every other clause in this Fifth
Amendment is personal. "-No person shall be held to answer
for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime," etc. Instead of
continuing that form of statement, and saying that no person
shall be deprived of his property without just compensation,
the personal element is left out, and the "just compensation"
is to be a full equivalent for the property taken. This excludes
the taking into account, as an element in the compens.idn, any
supposed benefit that the oWner may receive in common with
all from. the public uses to- which his private property is appropriated, an d leaves it, to stand as a declaration, that no -private
property shall be appropriated to public uses unless a full and
exact equivalent for it be returned to the owner.
We do not-in this refer to the case where only a portion of
a tract is taken, or express any opinion on the vexed question
as to the extent to which the benefits or injuries to the portion
not taken may be brought into consideration. This is a question which may arise possibly in this case, if the seven'locks
and dams belonging to the Navigation Company are so situated as to be fairly considered. one property, a matter-in respect to which the record before 'us furnishes no positive
evidence. It seems to be assumed .that each lock and dam by
itself constitutes a separate structure and separate property,

MONONGAHELA NAVIGAT'N CO. ,v. UNITED STATES. 321
Opinion of the Cburt.

and the thoughts we have suggested are pertinent to such a
case.
By this legislation, Congress seems to have. assumed the
right to determine what shall be the measure of compensation.
But this is a judicial and not a legislative question. The legislature may determine what private property is needed for
public purposes- that is a question of a political and legislative
character; but when the taking has been .ordered,. then the
question of compensation is judicial. -JIt does not rest with the
public, taking the property, through Congress or the legislature, its representative, to say what compensation shall be paid,
or even what shall be .the rule of compensation. The Constitution has declared that just compensation shall be paid, and
the ascertainment .of that is a judicial inquiry In CharZes
River Brzdge v. WaTr'em, rzdge, 11 Pet. 420, 571, :lvr. Justice
McLean mhis opinion, referring to a provision for compensation found in the charter of the Warren bridge, uses this language "They [the legislature] provide that the new company
shall pay annually to the college, in behalf of the old one,
one hundred pounds. By this provision, it appears that the
legislature has undertaken to do what a ury of the country
only could constitutionally do assess the amount of compensation to which the complainants are entitled?' See also the
following authorities Commonwealth v Pzttsbu.gA & Connellsvile Railroad,58 Penn. St. 26, 50, Penn. Railroad v
Bale. & Ohio Railroad, 60 Maryland, 263,. Isom v .Xisszsszppt Central Railroad, 36 Mississippi, 300.
In the last of these cases, and on page 315, will be found.
these observations of the couft: "The right of the legislature
of the State, by law, to apply the property of the citizen to
the public use, and then to constitute itself the judge in its
own case, to determine what is the- 'just compensation' it.
ought to paytherefor, or how much benefit it has conferred
upon the citizen by thus taking his property without his' consent, or to extinguish any part of such 'compensation ' by prospective conjectural advantage, or ,n any manner to interfere
with the just powers and province of courts and juries in ad:
ministering right and justice, cannot for a moment' be admitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

or tolerated under our Constitution. If anything can be clear
and undeniable, upon principles of natural justice or constitutional law, it seems that this must be so."
We are not, therefore, concluded by the declaration in the
act that the franchise to collect tolls is not to be considered in
estimating the sum to be paid for the property
How shall just compensation for this lock and dam be
determined 2 What does the full equivalent therefor demand 2
The value of property, generally speaking, is determined by
its productiveness- the profits which its use brings to the
owner. Various elements enter into this matter of value.
Among them we may notice these N7atural richness of the
soil as between two neighboring tracts -one may be fertile,
the other barren, the one so situated as to be susceptible of
easy use, the other requiring much labor and large expense to
make its fertility available. Neighborhood to the centres
of business and population largely affects values. For that
property which is near the centre of a large city may command high rent, while property of the same character, remote
therefrom, is wanted by -but few, and commands but a small
rental. Demand for the use is another factor. The commerce
on the Monongahela River, as appears from the testimony
offered, is great, the demand for the use of this lock and dam
constant. A precisely similar property, in a stream where
commerce is light, would naturally be of less value, for the
demand for the use would be less. The value, therefore, is
not determined by the mere cost of construction, but more by
what the completed structure brings in the way of earnings
to its owner. For each separate use of one's property by
others, the owner is entitled to a reasonable compensation,
and the number and amount of such uses determine the productiveness and the earnings of the property, and, therefore,
largely its value. So that 1f this property, belonging to the
Monongahela Company, is rightfully where it is, the company
may justly demand from every one making use of it a compensation, and to take that property from it deprives it of the
aggregate amount of such compensation which otherwise it
would continue to receive. What amount of compensation for

MON NGAHELA NAVIGATN CO. v. UNITED STATES. 329
Opinion of "the Court.

each separate use of any particular property may be charged
is sometimes fixed by the statute which gives authority for the
creation of the property; sometimes determined by what it is
reasonably worth, and sometimes, if it is purely private property, devoted only to private uses, the matter rests arbitrarily
with the will of the owner. In this case, it being property
devoted to a public use, the amount of compensation was subject
to the determination of the State of Pennsylvania, the State
which authorized the creation of the property The prices
which may be exacted under this legislative grant of authority
are the tolls, and these tolls, in the nature of the case, must
enter into and largely determine the matter of value. In the
case of .MontgomeryCounty v Bzdge Comyany, 110 Penn. St.
54, 58, in which the condemnation of a.bridge belonging to the
bridge company was sought, the court said-- "The bridge
structure, the stone, iron and wood, was but a portion of the
property owned by the bridge company, and taken by the
county There were the.franchises of the company, including
the right to take toll, and these were as effectually taken as
was the bridge itself. Hence, to measure the damages by the
mere cost of building the bridge would be to deprive the company of any compensation for the destruction.of its franchises.
The latter can no more be taken without compensation than
can its tangible corporeal property Their value necessarily
depends upon their productiveness. If they yield no money
in return over expenditures, they would possess little, if any,
present value. If, "however, they yield a revenue over and
above expenses, they possess a present value, the amount of
which depends, in a measure, upon the excess of revenue.
Hence it is manifest that the income from the bridge was a
necessary and proper subject of inquiry before the jury"
So, before this property can be taken away from its owners,
the whole value must be paid, and that value depends largely
upon the productiveness of the property, the franchise To take
tolls. That, in the absence of Congressional action, the State
of Pennsylvania had the power, either acting itself or through
a corporation which it chartered, to improve the navigation of
the river by means of locks and dams, and also to authorize

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the exaction of tolls for'the use of such improvements, are
matters upon which there can be no dispute, in view of the
many decisions of this court. Those very closely in point are
1Vilson v Blackbird Creek -MarshCo., 2 Pet. 245, Pound v
Turk, 95 U. S. 459, fuse v. Glever, 119 U. S. 543, Sands v
3fanistee -iver Improvement Co., 123 U S. 288.
In the 4irst of these cases it appeared that the Marsh Company was incorporated by an act of the general assembly of
Delaware, and authorized to construct a dam across Blackbird
Creek, a navigable stream within the territorial limits of the
State, that, in pursuance of such authority, it did construct
su6h dam, by which the navigation of the stream was obstructed, Willson, with others, were the owners of a sloop,
regularly licensed according to the laws of the United States,
which sloop broke and injured the dam. On being sued for
this injury, the owners pleaded that the dam was wrongfully
erected, obstructing the navigation of the stream, and that the
sloop could not, without breaking through the dam, pass over
and along the stream, and that in order to remove the said
obstructions it did the injury complained of. A demurrer to
this plea was sustained, Pnd in due -course the case came to
this court. The opinion was delivered by Chief Justice Marshall, sustaining the ruling, and holding that the dam, in the
absence of legislation by Congress, was rightfully there, having
been authorized by the legislature of the State in which the
stream was situated. In it the Chief Justice said (p. 252):
"If Congress had passed any act which bore upon the case,
any act in execution of the power to regulate commerce, the
object of which was to control state legislation over those
small navigable creeks into which the tide flows, and which
abound throughout the lower country of the middle and
southern States, we should feel not much difficulty in saying
that a state law coming in conflict with such act would be
void. But Congress has passed no such act. The repugnancy
of the law of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely
on its repugnancy to the power to .regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States, a power which
has not been so exercised as to affect the question. We do

MONONGAHIELA NAVIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 331
Opinion of the Court.

not think that the act empowering the Blackbird Creek Marsh
Company to place a dam across the creek, can, under all the
circumstances of the case, be considered as repugnant to the
power to regulate commerce in its dormant state, or as being
in conflict with any law passed on the subject."
In the case of Pound v. Turck, it appeared that a dam and
boom had been placed in the Chippewa River, unde' authority
of the legislature of Wisconsin. The fact that the plaintiff
suffered injury therefrom was established, and the defence was
that they were rightfully there. Mn Justice Miller, speaking
for the court, on page 461, uses this language "There are
within the State of Wisconsin, and perhaps other States, many
small streams navigable for a short distance from their mouths
in one of the great rivers of the country, by steamboats, but
whose greatest value in water carriage is as outlets to saw-logs,
sawed lumber, coal, salt, etc. In order to develop their greatest utility in that regard, it is often essential that such structures as dams, booms, piers, etc., should be used, which are
substantial obstructions to general navigation, and more or
less so to rafts and barges. But to the legislature of the State
may be most appropriately confided the authority to authorize
these structures where their use will do more good than harm,
and to impose such regulations and limitations in their construction and use as will best reconcile.and accommodate the
interest of all concerned in the matter. And since the doctrine
we have deduced from the cases recognizes the right of Congress to interfere and control the matter whenever it may
deem it necessary to do so, the exercise of this limited power
may all the more safely be confided to the local legislature."
.Huse v. Glover comes even nearer to this case. The State
of Illinois, at an expense of several hundred thousand dollars,
constructed locks and dams on the Illinois River for the purpose of improving its navigation, and prescribed rates of toll
to be paid by those using the improvements. A bill was filed
to enjoin the exaction of toll on vessels of -complainant passing
through the improved- waters of the river. After referring to
the clause in the ordinance for the government of the Northwest Territory, which provided that the navigable waters

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Courk

should be common highways, forever free, without any tax
or duty, Mr. Justice Field, for the court, on page 548, said
"The exaction of tolls for passage through the locks is as
compensation for the use. of artificial facilities constructed, not
as an impost upon the navigation of the stream. The provision of the clause that tae navigable streams shouldloe highways without any tax, impost or duty, has reference to their
navigation in their natu.al state. It did not contemplate that
such navigation might not be improved by artificial means, by
the removal of obstructions, or by the making of dams for deepening the waters, or byas rning into the rivers waters from
other streqms to increase their depth. For outlays caused by
such works the State may exact reasonable tolls. They are
like charges for the use of wharves and docks constructed to
facilitate the landing of persons and freight, and the taking
them on board, or for the repair of vessels. The State is
interested in the domestic as well as in the in erstate and foreign commerce conducted on the Illinois River, nid to increase
its facilities, and thus augment its growth, it has full power.
It is only when, in the judgment of Congress, its action is
deemed to encroach upon the navigation of the river as a
means of interstate and foreign commerce, that that body may
interfere and control or supersede it. If, in the opinion of the
State, greater benefit would result to her commerce by the
improvements made, than by leaving the river in its natural
state, -and on that point the State must necessarily determine
for itself, -i t may authorize them, although increased inconvenience and expense may thereby result to the business of
individuals.
How the highways of a State, whether
on land or by water, shall be best improved for the public
good is a matter for state determination, subject always to
the right of Congress to interpose in the cases mentioned."
And in the last of these cases, where the Manistee River was
improved under authority of the legislature of the State of
Michigan, and tolls exacted for the use of the improved water
way, we find this in the opinion, on page 295 "The internal
commerce of the State - that is, the commerce which is
wholly confined within its limits -is as much under its con-

MONONGAHELA NAVIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 333
Opinion of the Court.

trol as foreign or interstate commerce is under the control of
the generl government, and, to encourage the growth of this
commerce and render it safe, the States may provide for the
removal of obstructions from their t'ivers and harbors, and
deepen their channels, and improve them in other ways, if, as
is said in County of -Mobile v FHimball, the free navigation of
those waters, as permitted under the laws of the United States,
is not impaired, or any system for the improvement of their
navigation provided by the general government is not defeated.
102 U. S. 691, 699. And to meet the cost of such improvements, the States may levy a general-tax or lay a toll upon all
who use the rivers and harbors as improved. The improvements are, in that respect, like wharves and docks constructed
to facilitate commerce in loading and unloading vessels. Huse
v Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 548. Regulations of tolls or charges
in such cases are mere matters of administration, under the
entire control of the State."
Kindred to these are the cases of Gilman v. Philadephika,
3 Wall. '713, Transportation Company v. Chicago, 99 U. S.
635, Escanaba Company v Cliwago, 107 U. S. 678, Cardwel
v American Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205, and TWillamette Bridge
Company v Hatch, 125 U. S. 1, 12, in which the power of a
State, in the absence of Congressional action, to obstruct navigation by the construction of bridges across navigable streams,
was sustained. And,\aso, the cases of Packet Co. v Keokeuk,
95 U. S. 80, and Transportation Co. v Parkersburg,107 U. S.
691, in which the power of a State, under like circumstances
to improve the border of streams by wharves and exact wharfage therefor, was affirmed.
While in a matter of this kind it is needless to look for
authorities beyond the decisions of this court, yet the cases of
.Kellogg v. Union Company, 12 Connecticut, 6; and Thames
Bank v Zovell, 18 Connecticut, 500, may be referred to as
containing very satisfactory discussions of this question. We
quote from the opinion in the-latter case, page 511
"These acts, improving rivers, constructing roads, etc., will
never be complained of, as interfering with the rights and
powers of Congress. The tolls alone are the subject of corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

plaint. But these are only the fair equivalent for privileges
which the State had a right to create, and without which these
privileges could never have existed. Commerce, therefore, has
not been crippled by the tolls, as the defendant claims, but has
been-extended by them. The legislature of the State creating
this corporation, with its duties and its privileges, has come in
aid of the powers of Congress.
"It seems to be admitted, that States may construct canals,
turnpikes, bridges, etc., and impose tolls upon passengers and
freight, as a remuneration for the improvements, and that
this may be done, without interfering with the power of Congress to regdlate commerce among the States, or its power to
establish post-offices and post-roads. We have not been able
to discover a sound distinction between these cases and the one
we are considering. Congress has the same power to regulate
commerce upon the land as upon the water. A river, to be
sure, is a natural channel;, but if it is not a navigable one, it
can no more be used for the purposes of commerce than the
land, and, therefore, to convert it from the mere natural channel into a public highway, for commercial purposes, and to
levy a toll to reimburse the expense, no more conflicts with the
powers of Congress over the commerce of the country than
the construction of a canal or a turnpike for the same purposes,
with the same tolls. And this, we think, is equally true of
rivers, which are only navigable to a partial and limited extent,
and .by artificial and expensive means are rendered navigable
to a greater extent, with a reasonable toll levied upon those
only who receive the benefit of the extended navigation. The
principle is the same in both the cases stated."
But in this case there was not only the full authority of the
State of Pennsylvania, but also, so far as respects this particular lock and dam, they were-constructed at the instance and
implied invitation of Congress. The act of March 3, 1881,
making an appropriation for the improvement of the river,
in terms provided that no such improvement should be made
until the Navigation Company had in good faith started upon
the building of this lock and dam. This lock and dam connected the lower improvements already made by the Naviga-

MONONGAHELA NAVIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 335
Opinion of the Court.

tion Company with the upper improvements proposed to be
made by Congress, and the appropriation by the latter was
conditioned on the company's undertaking their construction.
This is something more than the mere recognition of an existing fact, it is an invitation to the company to do the work,
and when in pursuance of that invitation, and under authority
given by the State of Pennsylvania, the company has constructed the lock and dam, it does not lie in the power of the
State or the United States to say that such lock and dam are
an obstruction and wrongfully there, or that the right to compensation for the use of this improvement by the public does
not belong to its owner, the Navigation Company
Upon what does the right of Congress to interfere in the
matter rest? Simply upon the power to regulate commerce.
This is one of the great powers of the national government, one
whose existence and far-reaching extent have been affirmed
again and again by this court in its leading opinions, and the
power of Congress over such natural highways as navigable
streams is confessedly supreme. See among the various cases
in which this supremacy has been affirmed Gilman v Philadelpk ta, 3 Wall. 713, 725, County of _Mobile v iimball, 102
U. S.691, 696, -Bridge Conipany v United States, 105 U. S.
470,482, .Miller v. New Y7ork, 109 U. S. 385, 392, liseonszn
v .Dulath, 96 U. S.379, Willamette I'on Brzdge Comj2any vflateh, 12,5 U. B. 1. In Ifieconstn v Duluth (p. 383) it was
said "It is to be observed, as preliminary to an examination
of the acts of the general government in the special matter
before us, that the whole system of river and lake and harbor
improvements, whether on the seacoast or on the lakes or the
great navigable rivers of the interior, has for years been
mainly under the control of that government, and that, whenever it has taken charge of the matter, its right to an exclusive control has not been denied.
And while this
court has maintained, in many cases, the right of the States to
authorize structures in and over the navigable waters of the
States, which.may either impede or improve their navigation,
in the absence of any action of the general government in the
same matter, the doctrine has been laid down with unvarying

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

uniformity, that when Congress has, by any expression of its
will, occupied the field, that action was conclusive of any right
to the contrary asserted under state authority The adjudged
cases in this court on this point are numerous."
And in 1Tillamette Iron B'rdge Company v. .Hatck(p. 12) the
proposition was thus stated. "And although, until Congress
acts, the States have the plenary power supposed, yet, when
Congress chooses to act, it is not concluded by anything that the
States, or that individuals by its authority or acquiescence,
have done, from assuming entire control of the matter, and
abating any, erections that may have been made, and preventing any ot~ers from being made, except in conformity with
such regulations as it may impose." It cannot be doubted, in
view of the long list of authorities, - for many more might be
cited,.- that. Congress has the power in its discretion to compel the removal of this lock and dam as obstructions to the
navigation of the river, or to condemn and take them for the
purpose of promoting its navigability In other words, it is
within the competency of Congress to make such provision
respecting the improvement of the Monongahela River as in
its judgment the public interests demand. Its dominion is
supreme.
But like the other powers granted to Congress by the Constitutioni the power to regulate commerce is subject to all the
limitations imposed by such instrument, and among them is
that of the Fifth Amendment, we have heretofore quoted.
Congress has supreme control over the regulation of commerce,
but if, in exercising that supreme control, it deems it necessary
to take private property, then it must proceed subject to the
limitations imposed by this Fifth Amendment, and can take
only on payment of just compensation. The power to regulate
commerce is not given in any broader te ms than that to establish post-offices and post-roads, but, if Congress wishes to
take private property upon which to build a post-office, it
must either agree upon the price with the owner, or in condemnation pay just compensation therefor. And if that
property be :rproved under authority of a charter granted by
the State, with a franchise to take tells for the use of the

MONONGAHELA NAVIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 337
Opinion of the Court.

improvement, in order to determine the just compensation,
such franchise must be taken into account. Because Congress
has power to take the property, it does not follow that it may
destroy the franchise without compensation. Whatever be
the true value of that which it takes from the individual owner
must be paid to him, before it can be said that just compensation for the property has been made. And that which is true
in respect to a condemnation of property for a post-office is
equally true when condemnation is sought for the purpose of
improving a natural highway Suppose, in the improvement
of a navigable stream, it was deemed essential to construct a
canal with locks, in order to pass around rapids or falls. Of
the power of Congress to condemn whatever land may be
necessary for such canal, there can be no question, and of the
equal necessity of paying full compensation for all private
property taken there can be as little doubt. If a man's house
must be taken, that must be paid for, and, if the property is
held and improved under a franchise from the State, with
power to take tolls, that franchise must be paid for, because it
is a substantial element in the value of the property taken.
So, coming to the case before us, while the power of Congress
to take this property is unquestionable, yet the power to take
is subject to the constitutional limitation of just compensation.
It should be noticedthat here there is "unquestionably a taking
of the property, and,not a mere destruction. It is not a case
in which the government requires the removal of an obstruction. What differences would exist between the two cases, if
any, it is unnecessary here to inquire. All that we need consider is the measure of compensation when the government, in
the exercise of its sovereign power, takes the property
And here it may be noticed that, after taking this property,
the government will have the right to exact the same tolls the
Navigation Company has been receiving. It would seem strange
that if by asserting its right to take the property, the government could strip it largely of its value, destroying all that
value which comes from the receipt of tolls, and, having taken
the property at this reduced valuation, immediately possess
and enjoy all the profits from the collection of the same tolls.
VOL. cxLvmn-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

In other words, by the contention this element of value exists
before and after the taking, and disappears only during the
very moment and process of taking. Surely, reasoning which
leads to such a result must have some vice, at least the vice of
injustice.
aMuch reliance is placed upon- the case of Briclge Comyany
v Unsted States, 105 U. S. 470. But that was a case not
of the taking, but of the destruction, of property It is true,
Mr. Chief Justice 'Waite, in delivering the opinion of the court,
uses this language in reference to the power of Congress
"But the power of Congress in respect to legislation for the
preservation of interstate commerce is just as free from state
interference as any other subject within the sphero of its
legislative authority The action of Congress is supreme and
overrides all that States may do. When, therefore, Congress,
in a proper way, declares a bridge across a navigable river of
the United States to be an unlawful structure, no legislation
of a State can make it lawful. Those who act on state authority alone, necessarily assume all the risks of legitimate
congressional interference." But such affirmation of power
was not made with reference to a question like this. The
facts in that case were these The Bridge Company was a
creature of the legislation of the States of Ohio and Kentucky,
and incorporated to build a bridge across the Ohio River,
between Newport and Cincinnati. The state charters authorized the construction of a bridge in accordance with the provisions of an act of Congress of July 14-, 1862, or any act that
Congress might pass on the subject. On March 3, 1869,
Congress passed a resolution giving its assent to the construction of this bridge. This resolution contained this reservation
"But Congress reserves the right to withdraw the assent
hereby given, in case the -free navigation of said river shall
at any time be substantially and materially obstructed by
any bridge to be erected under the authority of this resolution,
or to direct the necessary modifications and alterations of
said bridge." 15 Stat. 347. After the passage of this resolution the company commenced the erection of a drawbridge,
and expended a large amount of money in the undertaking.

MO ONGAHELA NAYIGAT'N CO. v. UNITED STATES. 339
Opinion of the Court.

Before, however, the bridge was finished, Congress passed an
act (the act of March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 572, 573, c. 121) requiring a high bridge. The act provided that upon the Bridge Company making the changes required by the act, it rmght file its
bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio, to have determined whether the bridge had
been constructed theretofore, so far as the work had progressed,
in accordance with the provisions of law then in existence,
and, second, the liability of the United States, if any there
was, by reason of the changes. The suit was brought, and
on appeal to this court, by four to three, Mr. Justice Matthews
taking no part in the decision, the court held that the government was not liable for any damages. The case turned in the
judgment of the majority mainly upon the resolution of March
3, 1869, heretofore quoted. In the early part of the opinion,
(p. 475,) the Chief Justice says "No question can arise in
this case upon what the States have done, for both Ohio and
Kentucky required the company to comply with the regulations
of Congress. .Neither are we called on to determine what would
have been the rights of the company, if, in the original license,
no power of future control by Congress had been reserved."
He then proceeds to consider at some length the peculiar language of that reservation. Under it, as he says, Congress
had the right to withdraw assent, which was equivalent to
a positive enactment that a further maintenancu of the bridge,
as at first planned and partially constructed, was unlawful,
and the mere exercise of its power under this reservation, to
declare the proposed structure unlawful, did not expose the
government to any liability for damages. We quote fully the
expression of views on this subject
"It is next insisted that if, in the judgment of Congress, the
public good required the bridge to be removed, or alterations
to be made in its structure, just compensation must be made
the company for the loss incurred by what was directed. It
is true that one cannot be deprived of his property without
due process of law, and that private property cannot be taken
for public use without just compensation.
"In the present case, the Bridge Company asked of Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

gress permission to erect its bridge. In response to this request

ermission was Fgiven, but only on condition that it might be

revoked at any time if the bridge was found to be detrimental
to navigation. This condition was an essential element of the
grant, and the company in accepting the privileges conferred
by the grant assumed all risks of loss arising from any exercise
of the power which Congress saw fit to reserve. What the
company got from Congress was the grant of a franchise
expressly made defeasible at will, to maintain a bridge across
one of the great highways of commerce. This franchise was
a species of property, but from the moment of its origin its
continued existence was dependent on the will of Congress,
and this was declared in express terms on the face of the grant
by which it was created. Iji the use of the franchise thus
granted, the company might, and it was expected would,
acquire property The property thus acquired Congress could

not appropriate to itself by a withdrawal of its assent to the
maintenance of the bridge that was to be built, but the franchise, by express agreement, was revocable -whenever in the
judgment of Congress it could not be used without substantial
and material detriment to the interest of navigation. A withdrawal of -the franchise might render property acquired on
the faith of it, and to be used in connection with it, less
valuable, but that was a risk which the company voluntarily
assumed when it expended its money under the limited license
which alone Congress was willing to give. It was optional
with the company to accept or not what was granted, but
having accepted, it must submit to the control which Congress, in the legitimate exercise of the power that was reserved,
may deem it necessary for the common good lo insist upon."It is evident, therefore, that the point decided was that
Congress had reserved the right to withdraw its assent to the
construction of a bridge on the plan proposed, whenever, in
its judgment, such bridge should become an obstruction to the
navigation that the Bridge Company entered upon the
construction of the bridge in the light of this express reserration, and with the knowledge that Congress might at any
time declare that the bridge constructed as proposed was an

MONONGAHELA NAVIGATN CO. v. UNITED STATES. 341
Opinion of the Court.

obstruction to navigation, and that Congress, exercising this
reserved power, did not thereby subject the government to
any liability for damages. There was no taking of private
property for public uses, and while the company may have
been deprived of property, it was deprived by due process of
law, because deprived under authority of an express reservation of power. Even this conclusion was reached with strong
dissent, Mr. Justice Miller, Mr. Justice Field and Mr. Justice
Bradley dissenting, and each writing a separate opinion. And
those opinions only make more clear the fact that .the case
was rested in the judgment of the majority on the effect of
the reservation.
In the case at bar there is no such reservation, there is
no attempt to destroy property; there is'simply a case of the
taking by the government, for public uses, of the private
property of the Navigation Company. Such an appropriation
cannot be had without just compensation, and that, as wo
have seen, demands payment, of the value of the property as
it stands at the time of taking.
The theory of the government seems to be, that the right
of the Navigation Company to have its property in the river,
and the franchises given by the State to take tolls for the use
thereof, are conditional only, and that whenever the government, in the.exercise of its supreme power, assumes control of
the river, it destroys both the right of the company to have
its property there, and the franchise to take tolls. But this is
a misconception. The franchise is a vested right. The State
has power to grant it. It may retake it, as it may take other
pri.vate property, for public uses, upon the payment of just
compensation. A like, though a superior, power exists in the
n.tional government. It may take it for public purposes, and
take it even against the will of the State, but it can no more
take the franhise which the State has given than it can any
private property belonging to an individual.
Notice to what the opposite view would lead. A railroad
between Columbus, Ohio, and' Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, is
an interstate highway, created under franchises granted by
the two States of Ohio and Pennsylvania, franchises not

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

merely to construct, but to take tolls for the carrying of
passengers and freight. In its exercise of supreme power to
regulate commerce, Congress may condemn and take that
interstate highway; but in the exercise of that power, and
in the taking of such property, may it ignore the franchises
to take tolls, granted by the States, or must it not rather pay
for them, as it pays for the rails, the bridges, and the tracks 2
The question seems to carry its own answer. It may be suggested that the cases are not parallel, in that in the present
there is a natural highway, while in that suggested it is
-wholly artificial. But the power of Congress is not determined by the character of the highway Nowhere in the
Constitution is there given power in terms over highways,
unless it be in that clause to establish post-offices and postroads. The power which Congress possesses-in respect to this
taking of property springs from the grant of power to regulate
commerce, and the regulation of commerce implies as much
control, as far-reaching power, over an artificial as over a
natural highway They are simply the means and instrumentalities of commerce, and the power of Congress to
regulate commerce carries with it power over all the means
and instrumentalities by which commerce is carried on. There
may be differences in the modes and manner of using these
different highways, but such differences do not, affect or limit
that supreme power of Congress to regulate commerce, and
in such regulation to control its means and instrumentalities.
We are so much accustomed to see artificial highways, such
as common roads, turnpike roads and railroads, constructed
under the authority of the States, and the improvement of
naLur.d highways carried on by the general government, that
at th. first it might seem that there was some inherent difference in the power of the national government over them.
But the grant of power is the same. There are not two
clauses of the Constitution, each severally applicable to a
different kind, of highway The fee of the soil in neither case
is in the general government, but in the State or private
individuals. The differences between th two are m their
orig in-nature proyides the one, man-establishes the other.

MONONGAHELA IAVIGATIN' O. v. UNITED STATES. 343
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court -in,
Railroad Company v. 3aryland, 21 Wall. 456, 4:70, referred
to this matter in these words "Commerce on land between
the different States is so strikingly dissimilar, in many respects,
from commerce on water, that it is often difficult to regard
them in the same aspect in reference to the respective constitutional powers and duties of the State and Federal governments. No doubt commerce by water was principally in the
minds, of those who framed and adopted the Constitutibn,
although both its language and spirit embrace commercelby
land as well."
It is also suggested that the government does not tike this
franchise, that it does not need any authority from the State
for the exaction cf tolls, if it desires to exact them, that it
only appropriates the tangible property, and then either makes
the use of it free to all, or exacts such tolls as it sees fit, or
transfers the property to a'new corporation of its own creation, with such a franchise'to take tolls as it 6hooses to give.
But this franchise goes with the property, and the Navigation
Company, which owned it, is deprived of it. The government
takes it away from the company, whatever use it may make
of it, and the question of just compensation is not determined
by the value to the government which takes, but the value to
the individual from whom the property is taken, and when
by the taking of the tangible-property the owner is actually
deprived of the franchise to collect tolls, just compensation
requires payment, not merely of the value of the tangible
property itself, but also of that of the franchise of which he
is deprived.
Another contention is this First, that the grant of right
to the Navigation Company was a mere revocable license,
secondly, that, if it was not, there was a right in the State tb
alter, amend or annul the charter; and, thirdly, that -there
was, by the 18th section thereof, reserved the right at any time
after twenty-five years from the completion of the improvement to purchase, the entire improvement. and franchise by
paying the original cost, together with six per cent interest
thereon, deducting dividends theretofore declared and paid -

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

a provision changed by section 8 of the act of June 4, 1839,
so as to require a payment of the expenses incurred inconstructing and making repairs, with eight per cent per annum
interest. But little need be said in reference to this line of
argument. We do not understand that the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania has ever ruled that a grant like this is a mere
revocable license., The cases referred to by counsel are those
in which there was simply a permit, but here there was a
chartered right created, -the right not merely to improve the
river, but to exact tolls for the use of the improvement,- and
such right created by an act of incorporation, as long ago
settled in this court in Dartmoutb College Tpustees v. Woodward,4 Wheat. 518, is a contract which cannot be set aside by
either party to it.
Again, the State has never assumed to exercise any rights
reserved in the charter, or by any supplements thereto. So
far as the State is concerned, all its grants and franchises
remain unchallenged and undisturbed in the possession of the
Navigation Company The State has never transferred, even
if it were possible for it to do so, its reserved rights to the
United States government, and the latter is proceeding not as
the assignee, successor in interest, or otherwise of the State,
but by virtue of its own inherent supreme power. What the
State might or might not do, is not here a matter of question,
though doubtless, the existence of this reserved right to take
the property upon certain specified terms may often, and
perhaps. in the present case, materially affect the question of
value. And, finally, there is no suggestion on the part of
Congress, and no proffer in these proceedings, of payment
under the terms of the charter and supplementary act of 18139,
and no attempt to ascertain the amount which would be due
to the company in accordance therewith.
These are all the questions presented in this case. Our conclqsions are, that the Navigation Company rightfully placed
this lock and dam in the IMonongahela River, that, with the
ownership of the tangible property, legally held in that place,
it has a franchise to receive tolls for its use, that such franchise was-as much a vested right of property as the owner-

