OCTOBER :TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

the papers and the covers was in no proper sense a process of
manufacture, and did not change the use or the character of
the articles.
To decide that these cigarette papers and their covers, or
either of the two, are not "smokers' articles," would contravene the plain language, as well as the manifestr intent and
purpose of the Tariff Act.
The cases of Robertson v Gerdan, 13'2 U. S. 454, and
U ztted States v Schoverling, 146 U. S. 76, cited for the
plaintiff, went no further than to hold other provisions of
the Tariff Act, describing a complete instrument, to be inapplicable to the importer of a part thereof 'only In Robertson
v Gerdan, the point decided was that ivory keys, sold to manufacturers of pianos and organs, to be scraped and glued to
the wood, were not themselves musical instruments., In
United States v Schoverling, the point decided was that
gunstocks, although intended to be put with barrels to form
complete guns, yet no question of the importation of gun
barrels being involved, were not guns, and there was no
intination that if the stocks and barrels had both been imported -by the same person and entered at the same time,
with the intention of himself putting them together as guns,
they would not have been dutiable as such, or that gunstocks should not be considered as gunners' or sportsmen's
articles.
Jdgment affirnied.

UNITED STATES v. ISAACS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN .ISTRICT

OF LOUISIANA.

No. 39i. Argued Marech 15, 183. -Decided April 10, 1893.

Cigarette paper, made of a quality, and cut into a size, fit for wrapping
cigarettes, and which, iu the condition and form-ia which it is imported,
can be used by smokers in making their own cigarettes, is sub~ect to the
duty of seventy per cent ad valorem, imposed on "smokers' articles"

UNITED STATES v. ISAACS.
Statement of the Case.
by schedule 1 of the Tariff Act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, and not to the
duty of fifteen per cent ad valorem, imposed on "manufactures of paper"
by schedule M of the same act.
Tis was an action brought June 15, 1886, by the United
States against Isaacs, to recover additional duties upon sixteen cases of cigarette paper, which he had imported and
entered for consumption at the port of New Orleans m June,
1885, and had paid a duty of fifteen per cent ad valoremupon,
as "manufactures of paper," under schedule M, and which the
collector, in liqmdating the entry, held to be dutiable at
seventy per cent ad valoremn as "smokers' articles," under
schedule N of the Tariff Act of 1883.
At the trial before a jury, the only controversy was under
which description the merchandise was dutiable, upon the
following facts agreed by the parties
"The goods in question consisted of pape, of a quality'
suitable for wrapping cigarettes filled with tobacco, and was
cut into sizes fit for that use, and could have been used for
that purpose, or in manufacturing cigarettes, but is not usually
and in the ordinary course of trade put on the market for
sale to smokers in the condition and form in which it was
lmpofted, but such paper is fitted for market and sale to
smokers by being separated into lots .or parcels of from one
hundred to two hundred and fifty leaves of paper, after which
one edge of the parcel of leaves is-connected together with
paste, glue or some other adhesive cement, and afterwards
cemented to a protective cover, making, when the mampulation is complete, what is. known in commerce as cigarette
books, and from which the leaves are torn, one at a time, for
the manufacture of cigarettes by smokers or manufacturers.
It was, however, possible for any smoker to have taken the
separate leaves of paper in form as imported, and used the
same m making cigarettes, without having been first made up
in books as above described. In fact, a part of this shipment
and importaton was sold directly to manufacturers of cigarettes in bulk for use in cigarette factories. And if the classification or rate of duty to be imposed is or can be in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

manner affected by the intention of the importer as to future
use after importation, the defendant admits that at the time
of importation and entry it was his intention to use said
paper in the manufacture of cigarette books, and that, in
fact, a large portion of said paper was so used by him after
inportation, and was by him sold in that form m the United
States."
The United States requested the court to instruct the jury
that upon the facts agreed the paper in question was a
smoker's article, and liable to a duty of seventy per cent ad
valorem, and that they should find a verdict for the United
States. B~dt the court declined so to instruct the jury, and
ruled that upon the facts agreed the goods should be classified
as a manufacture of paper, and that the defendant, having
paid a duty upon it as such, was entitled to a verdict, which
was returned accordingly The United States alleged exceptions, and on February 11, 1890, sued out this writ of error.
M1r Asistant Attorney General. P tr er for plaintiff in
error.
M- If W ckdiam Smnz~t, (with whom were Mr Oharles Curie
and _Mr D Ives Mackie on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIoE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

It having been admitted by the parties, at the trial, that
the paper in question in this case was made of a quality, and
cut into a size, fit for wrapping cigarettes, and could, in the
condition and form in which it was imported, be used by
smokers to make their own cigarettes- although it is not, in
the usual and ordinary course of trade, put on the flarket for
sale to smokers in that condition and form, but is usually
prepared for sale to smokers by being made up into cigarette
books, or else sold to -manufacturers of cigarettes to be used in
their factories-it must, under the opinion just delivered in
Isaacs v Jonas,ante, 648, be held, to come within the clause of
the Tariff Aot, which imposes a duty of seventy per cent ad

