BIER v. McGEHEE.
Syllabus.

every day, but not to give him a deficit of work one day and
an excess another."
In the brief of the Solicitor General in the present case, it is
stated that in his opinion the decision of the Court of Claims
was correct, that he is prevented from' dismissing the appeal
only by the fact that another department of the government
has differed from that view and declines to follow it until the
question is decided authoritatively by this court,.and that
justice to the letter-carriers .seems, therefore, to require that
the case be submitted to this court for its determination, which
he does without argument.
The conclusions which we have reached in No. 1061 cover
the same questions arising in this case which are presented in
that, and, as the appellant does not challenge the decision of
the Court of Claims as to the question presented in this case
which is not presented in No. 1061, it is sufficient to say that
we concur with the views of that court, above stated, as to
that question.
Judgment qfirmd.

MR.

JUSTICE

JAcKsox took no part in the decision of this

case.

BIER v. McGEHEE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE PARISH OF ORLEANS
AND STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 3254. Submitted February 6, 1893.-

Decided March 13, 1893.

After the adoption of Article 233 of the constitution of Louisiana, declaring
certain designated state bonds void, the Treasurer of that State fraudulently put them into circulation, and absconded. Payment having been
refused by the State to an innocent holder of such a bond,
h he had
purchased for value, Held, in a suit brought by him to recover back
the purchase money, that such refusal by the State raised no Federal
question.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was a motion to dismiss a writ of error upon the ground
that no Federal question was involved.
Suit was begun by a petition filed by McGehee in the civil
district court of the parish of Orleans, December 10, 1889,
setting forth that in May, 1S88, petitioner had purchased of
defendant Bier a certain state bond numbered 788, "denoinated and represented to be a consolidated bond of the State
of Louisiana," for the sum of $1000, issued January 1, 1874,
under authority of act number 3 of the state legislature of
1874. That after the purchase of said bond and payment
therefor, it was claimed by the State of Louisiana, through
the attorney general, as its property, and that it had been
stolen by one Burke from the state treasurer, and the return
of said bond with $60 received in payment of the coupons
attached thereto was demanded by the attorney general. The
petitioner further averred that the bond was purchased by him
under the full belief that Bier was the lawful owner thereof,
but that he was not at the time of the sale by hin, or since,
the owner thereof, and that he had good reason to believe and
so charged that the bond was then the lawful property of the
State of Louisiana, and part of the Mechanical and Agricultural College fund held by the State, that said bond was
worthless in his hands, that the defendant refused to repay
the purchase price. He prayed for a judgment rescinding the
sale of the bond, and that the defendant be condemned to take
back the same, and return the amount paid therefor.
Defendant, in his supplemerital answer, denied that he was
ever the holder of the bond, or that he had ever sold the same
to the plaintiff, and averred that he had never purchased
or acquired any such bond that was not acquired in good
faith, in open market, before maturity, in the due and regular
course of trade, as commercial paper, and that any law of the
State of Louisiana sapposed to affect or alter the contract contained in the consolidated bonds of the State, issued under the
act of 1874, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
Upon the trial it was proved, and not denied by Bier, that
he had purchased the bond after the adoption of the constitu-

BIER v. McGEHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the State in 1879. The state treasurer's report of
1879 was put in evidence to show that the State was the owner
of the bond at that time. The court decreed that the sale of
the bond be rescinded, and that the defendant Bier be compelled to take back the bond, with the coupons attached, and
tihe sum of $60, received for tile coupons paid m error, etc.
Defendant appealed to the Court of Appeals of the Parish of
Orleans, which affirmed the judgment, and thereupon he sued
out a writ of error from this court, which defendant in error,

MfcGehee, moved to dismiss.
.X

_ rank .L. R hkardson for the motion.

.Afr Henry L. Lazarus opposing.
MR.

TusTicE

BRzown, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error invokes the jurisdiction of this court upon
the ground that article 233 of the constitution of the State of
:Louisiana, which declared that the consolidated bonds of the
State, held for the Agricultural and Mechanical College and
the Loumana Seminary fund, were null -and void, was repugnant to section 10, Article I, of the Constitution of the United
States, prohibiting States from passing laws impairing the
obligation of contracts.
The article in question declares the debt due by the State
to the agricultural and mechanical fund to be $182,313.03,
being the proceeds of the sales of lands and land scrip
granted by the United States to the State for the use of a
college for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanical arts,
directs that said amounts shall be placed to the credit of said
fund on the books of the auditor and treasurer as a perpetual
loan, that the State shall pay an annual interest of five per
cent on said amount from January 1, 1880, for the use of
said college, and that the consolidated bonds of the State,
then held by the State for the use of said fund, were to be
null and void after January 1, 1880, "and the general assembly shall never make any provision for their payment, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

they shall be destroyed in such manner as the General Assembly may direct."
That the constitution of a State is a law of the State within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, prohibiting States from passing laws impairing the obligation of
contracts, is not denied, and the plaintiff in error assumed the
position that it is beyond the power of the State to annul
or cancel bonds outstanding and presumably in the hands of
bonaftde purchasers. If Bier had been a holder for value of
this bond when the constitution of 1879 was adopted, it would
evidently be beyond the power of the State, by act of the
legislature, or by an amendment to its constitution, to nullify
such bond in his hands. But if, when the constitutional
amendment was adopted, the bond was still in the possession
of the State, there was then no contract with Bier upon which
such amendment could operate, and hence no contract subject
to impairment. New Orleans v NLfew Orleans lfater lWorks
Co., 142 U. S. 79. There was no objection to the State declaring bonds still in its possession to be null and void. The
amendment was practically an inhibition against issuing
bonds of the State for a certain purpose.
The court found that there was no material difference between the facts of this case and those of a prior case against
the same defendant, arising from the purchase of another of
the same issue of bonds, and, in its opinion in such prior case,
(Aycock v Lee,) the Court of Appeals of Orleans held that it
would take judicial notice of the fact that the bonds, while in
the possession of one Burke, then treasurer of the State, had
become and were null and void by the operation and effect of
article 233 of the constitution, and that Burke, having fraudulently reissued and put such bonds in circulation, absconded
from the State, and became and still was a fugitive from justice. The court further found that defendants received from
the plaintiff $913.75 for a paper represented to be a consolidated bond of the State, which the State had declared to be
null and void, and which was the lawful property of the State,
and that defendants were never owners of said bond, that
plaintiff did not know such facts when he purchased, and that

BIER v. McGEHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

said bond was valueless in his hands. The court further
found that these bonds were never put in circulation by the
State, but that, while tbfv were held by the State in trust for
the use of the Agricultural--a-nd IIchanicaI College fund, they
were annulled by the constitution of 1879, and their destruction ordered, that the -claim made that innocent holders were
entitled to exemption from inquiry into the equities between
the original parties was wholly inapplicable to these bonds,
which never were issued and put in circulation by the State,
that there was no equitable estoppel against the State, from
the fact that the General Assembly failed to have the bond
destroyed as required by the constitution, or from the fact that
coupons attached to it were paid from the state funds set apart
for the payment of the interest on the state debt, and that
the negligence of the General Assembly, the crime of the
state treasurer, and the erroneous payment of said coupons
could not singly or operating together give validity to the
bonds whose nullity had been-declared, and whose destruction
had been ordered. The court further held that what the
plaintiff covenanted to purchase and what defendants covenanted to sell was a legal bond of the State, that there was
an implied warranty on their part that the bond belonged to
them, and that it was a genuine legally outstanding and negotiable bond of the State, that what the plaintiff received
was a bond of no validity, and that "for this error of fact
and of law as well regarding the essential quality of the bond
sold, and without which plaintiff would not have purchased.it,
the contract may be rescinded."
It is quite evident from this statement that there was. no,
Federal question involved, in the case. The only such ques-,
tion which could possibly have arisen related ta the powevd.'fo
the State to annul by constitutional amendment its ow-wobligations, but that could only be raised upon the-.th'eory that
the obligation had been -put in circulation, and-that-there waZ
a contract on the part of the State to pay the#ilders. If the
bonds were still in possession of the State (and'.the court
found that they were,) there was no co utrac --top be impaired.
The real questions involved were, whehet
the bonds which

