OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

the specification and claims would have to be read as addressed
to the dyer rather than to the skein-maker. This would
involve a complete change of what was covered by the specification and claims, which must be held controlling.
The most that can be said of this Grant patent is that it is a
discoverv of a new use for an old device which does not involve
patentability However .useful the nature of the new use to
which the skein is sought to be confined by the disclaimer,
compared with the former uses to which the old skein was
applied at the date of the improvement, it forms only an analogous or double use, or one so cognate. and similar to the
uses and puirposes of the former cross-reeled and laced skein as
not to involve anything more than mechanical skill, and does
not constitute invention, as is well settled by authorities already
referred'to.
The advantages claimed for it, and which it no doubt posSesses to a considerable degree, cannot be held to change this
result, it being well settled that utility cannot control the
language of the statute, which limits the benefit of the patent
laws to things which are new as well as, useful. The fact that
the patented article has gone into general use is evidence of
its utility, but not conclusive of that and still less of its patentable novelty. .XcCla?. v Or'tmayer, 141 U S. 419, 425,
and authorities there cited.
Our conclusion is that there was no error in the decree of
the court below, and the same is accordingly
.Affirmed.

KREMENTZ v. THE S. COTTLE COMPANY.
APPRT

FROM THE

CICuIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 161. Argued and submitted March 23, 1893.- Decided April 10, 1893.

Letters patent No. 298,303, issued Mlay 6, 1884, to George Krementz for a
new and improved collar button, protect a patentable invention, which was
not anticipated by the invention described in letters patent No. 171,882

KREMENTZ v. S. COTTLE CO.
Opinion of the Court.
Issued to Robert Stokes January 4, 1876, nor by the invention described
in letters patent No. 177,253, issued May 9, 1876, to John Keats.
When the other facts in the case leave the question of invention in doubt,
the fact that the deyice has gone into general use, and has displaced other
devices which had previously been employed for analogous uses, is
sufficient to turn the scale in favor of invention.

IN EQurrY to restrain the infringement of letters patent.

Decree dismissing the bill, from which plaintiff appealed. The
case is stated in the opinion.
-Hr Louw
appellant.

. ]aegener and .Mr Chares E. -3itcheZl "for

.Mr Edwz H. Brown, for appellee, submitted on his brief.
MR.

JUSTmE SHiRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, dismiss-

ing a bill filed. to restrain the infringement of letters patent of
the United States, No. 298,303, granted May 6, 1884, to George
Krementz, of Newark, New Jersey, for a new and improved
collar button.
Complainant's evidence, tending to show that the collar
button made by the defendants was within the claim of the
patent in suit, and constituted an infrlngement, was not contradicted or disputed) but it was held by the court below that
the patent was invalid for want of novelty 39 Fed. Rep. 323.
In his specification the patentee states that his invention
consists in a collar button having 7 hollow head and stem, the
said button being formed and' shaped out of a single continuous plate of sheet metal. The method or process of making
the button is thus described.
"By means of suitable dies a metal plate is pressed into the
shape shown in Figure 2- that is, the plate is provided with
a hollow stem, B, the sides of which are pressed together at
about the middle, in some suitable manner, to form a head, C,
at the end of the stem, as in Figure 3, then the head is pressed
toward the base plate or back, D, whereby the head will be
upset, and will have the shape shown in Figures 4 and 5. By

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

this operation the head is hardened.

The base plate or back,

D, is then rounded out and finished, and its edge is turned over,
as shown in Figure 5."
In the accompanying diagram Figure 1 is a side view of the
completed button. Figures 2, 3, 4 and 5 are cross-sectional
elevations of the same in the different stages of the. operation
of making it.

DD

.D

.i

The advantages attributed to the invention are the, doing
away with soldered joints, the lightness of the hollow stem
and head as compared with buttons having solid stems and
head, and, the cheapness arising from the use of less material,
with equal or superior strength, which, when gold is used, is
quite appreciable.
The learned judge in the court below contented himself
with comparing Krementz's invention with. two earlier .patents, one to Stokes, No. 171,882, granted January 4, 1876,
and one to Keats, No. 177,253, granted May 9, 1876,, in which
patents, he thinks, are to be found the special features claimed
by Krementz.

KREMENTZ v. S. COTTLE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The Stokes patent was for an.improvemen~t in making a
stud fastening known as Thomson's unbreakable busk fastening, and whereby, instead of fastening the parts of, the stud
together by rivets, the entire busk was made out of one piece
of metal, by striking up or raising the stud out of a strip of
malleable sheet metal. The structure thus produced is a
solid rivet-like and fiat bead, intended to resist a great strain,
and evidently not -designed to be used as a collar button where
a well-defined round head, adapted to be used where there is
no strain, is necessary and essential.
In the Keats process the button is not made of. a continuous
piece of sheet metal, but has side seams in the post, and ha
base plate composed of two separate parts, and the head is
open on the under side. It could not be used as a collar
button, but is intended to be permanently fastened either to
eyelet holes, or to the fabric with wlnch it is connected.
We cannot see in these devices, taken separately or together,
an anticipation of the Krementz button. Indeed, the court
below concedes that "Krementz was the first to make a stud
from, a single continuous piece of metal in which thehead was
hollow and round in shape."
The learned judge was, however, of the opinion that "any
competent mechanic, versed in the manufacture of hollow
sheet-metal articles, having before hinr the -patents of. Stokes
and Keats, could haye made these improvements:and modifications; without exercising invention, and by applying the
ordinary skill of the calling."
It is not easy to draw the line that separates the ordinary
skill of a mechanic, versed in his art, from the exercise of
patentable invention, and the difficulty is specially great in
the mechanic arts, where the successive steps in improvements
are numerous, and where the changes and modifications are
introduced by practical mechanics. In the present instance,
however, we find -a.new and useful article, with obvious
advantages over previous struptures, of the kind. A button
formed from a single sheet of metal, free from sutures, of a
convenient shape, and uniting strength with lightness, would
seem to come fairly within the meaning of the patent laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The tools to be used in making the button are not described,
but they are not claimed to be new And the method or
process of manufacture is described with sufficient particularity to enable any one skilled in the art to follow it. Buttons
made of -several pieces-are liable to break at the soldered
joints, and it is stated by an experienced witness that the
metal -by the process of soldering becomes soft and liable to
bend. The different pieces are set together by hand, and are
not always uniform or put together truly
The view of the court below, that Krementz's step in the
art was one obvious to any skilled mechanic, is negatived by
the condut of Cottle, the president of the defendant company
He was 'himself a patentee under letters granted April 16,
1878, for an improvenint in the construction of collar and
sleeve buttons, and put in evidence in this case. In his specification he speaks of the disadvantages of what he calls "the
common practice to. make the head, back and post of collar
and sleeve buttons separate, and to unite them by solder." His
improvement was to form a button of two pieces, the post and
base forming one piece, and then soldering to the post the
head of the button as the other piece. Yet, skilled as he was,
and with his attention specially turned to the subject, he failed
to see, -what Krementz afterwards saw, that a button might be
made of one continlious sheet 6f metal, wholly dispensing
with ib1der, of an improved shape, of increased strength, and
requiring less material.
It was also made to appear that the advantages of the new
button were at once recognized by the trade and by the public,
and that very large quantities have been sold.
The argument drawn from the commercial success of a patented article is not always to be relied on. Other causes, such
as the enterpi'ise of the vendors, and the resort to lavish expenditures in advertising, may cobperate to promote a large
marketable demand. Yet, as was well said by Mr. Justice
Brown, in the case of Consolidated Brake-Shoe Co. v Detroit
(o., 47 Fed. Rep. 894, "when the other facts in the case.leave
the question of invention in doubt, the fact that the device has
gone into general use and has displaced other devices which

KREMENTZ v. S. COTTLE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

had previously been employed for analogous uses, is sufficient
to turn the scale in favor of the existence of inventiQn."
Loom Co. v Higgtns, 105 U. S. 580, 591, was a case where
the patented device consisted in a slight modification of existing mechanism, and it was contended that this slight change
did not constitute a patentable invention, but this view did
not prevail, the court saying
"It is further argued, however, that supposing the devices
to be sufficiently described, they do not show any invention ;
and that the combination set forth inthe fifth claim is a mere
aggregation of old devices already well. known, and therefore it is not patentable. This argument would be sound if
the combination claimed by Webster was an obvious one for
attaining the advantages proposed, - one which would occur
to any mechanic skilled ii the art. But it is lilain from the
evidence, and from the very fact that, it was not sooner
adopted and used, that it did not for years occur in this light
to even the most skilful persons. It may have been under
their very eyes, they may almost be said to have stumbled
over it, but they certainly failed to see it, to estimate its
value, and to bring it into notice. Who was the -first to see
it, to understand its value, to give it shape and form, to bring
it into notice and urge its adoption, is a question to which we
shall shortly give our attention. At -this point we are constrained to say that ve cannot yield our assent to the argument, that the combination of the different parts or elements
for attaining the object in view was so obvious as to merit no
title to invention. Now that it has' succeeded, it may seem
very plain to any one; that he could have done it as well.
This is often the case with inventions of the greatest merit.
It may be laid down as a general rule, though perhaps not an
invariable one, that if a new combination and arrangement of
known elements produce a -new and beneficialresult 'never
attained before, it is evidence of invention.
It was certainly a new. and useful result to make "a loom produce fifty
yards a day when it never before had produced more than
forty, and we think that the combination of elements by
which this was effected, even if those elements were sepaVOL. CXLVM-36

r

