OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

presented, - it is enough now to hold that one who was within
the territorial limits at the hour of noon of April 22 was,

within both the letter and the spirit of the statute, disqualified
to take a homestead therein.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory was
right, and it is
__________

ffrmed.

BENDER v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY
ERROR TO THE -CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 193, Submitted March 29,1893. -Decided April 3,1893.

An order overruling a motion to remand a case to a State Court is not a
final judgment.

MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.-Hr J R. Carey and Mr

. J _Mulins for the motion.

M' Lyman 1?. Cq'itchfiel, opposing.
THE CHIEF JUSTiCE

This is a writ of error, brought May

29, 1889, to an order overruling a motion to remand the case
to the State Court. Such an order is not a final judgment on
the merits, and the writ of error must be dismissed. 2JfcLtsh
v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661, Chwago, St. Pav, &c. Railway
v. Rolert, 141 U. S. 690, Joy v. Adelbert Iollege, 146 U. S.
355.

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
Counsel for Parties.

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
ORIGINAL.
No.3.

Original. Argued'March 8, 9, 1893.-Decided April 3,1893.

The boundary line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee, which was
ascertained and adjusted by commissioners appointed by and on behalf
of each State, and marked upon the surface of the ground between the
summit of White Top Mountain and the top of the Cumberland AIoun-

tains, having been established and confirmed by the State of Virginia in
January, 1803, and by the State of Tennessee in November, 1803, and
having been recognized and acquiesced. in by both parties for a long
course of years, and having been treated by Congress as the true
boundary between the two States, in its districting them for judicilA and
revenue purposes, and in its action touching the territory in which Federal
elections were to be held and for which Federal appointments were tb
be made, was a line established under an agreement or compact between
the two States, to which the consent of Congress was constitutionally
given; andi as so established, it takes effect as a definition, of the true
boundary, even if it be found to vary somewhat from the line established
in the original grants.
The history of the Royal Grants, and of the Colonial and State Legislation
upon this sub3ect reviewpd.
an agreement or compact as to boundaries may be made between two
States, and the requisite consent of Congress may be given to it subsequently, or may be implied from subsequent-action of Congress itself
towards the two States; and when such agreement or compact is thus
made, and is thus assented to, it is valid.
What "an agreement or compact" between two States of the Union is,
and what "the consent of Congress" to such agreement or compact is,
within the meaning of Article I of the Constitution,. considered and
explained.
A boundary line between States or Provinces which has been run 6ut,
located and marked upon the earth, and afterwards recognized ud
acquiesced in by the parties for a long course of years, is conclusive.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr B. Taylor Scott, Attorney General of the State of
Virginia, Mir William F.-Rhea and AXr Rufus A. Ayers, for
the State of Virginia.
_Mr George TV Pickle, Attorney General of the State- of
Tennessee, (with whom was Wr -_W 2M. Taylor, Xr IT H.
Hazynes, Air Thomas Curtm and Air C. J. St, 7ohn on the

