OCTOBER TERM, 2000

Syllabus

BUSH ET AL. V. GORE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA
No. 00-949.

Argued December 11, 2000-Decided December 12, 2000

On December 8, 2000, the Florida Supreme Court ordered, interalia, that
manual recounts of ballots for the recent Presidential election were
required in all Florida counties where so-called "undervotes" had not
been subject to manual tabulation, and that the manual recounts should
begin at once. Noting the closeness of the election, the court explained
that, on the record before it, there could be no question that there were
uncounted "legal votes"-i. e., those in which there was a clear indication of the voter's intent-sufficient to place the results of the election
in doubt. Petitioners, the Republican candidates for President and Vice
President who had been certified as the winners in Florida, filed an
emergency application for a stay of this mandate. On December 9, this
Court granted the stay application, treated it as a petition for a writ of
certiorari, and granted certiorari.
Held: Because it is evident that any recount seeking to meet 3 U. S. C.
§5's December 12 "safe-harbor" date would be unconstitutional under
the Equal Protection Clause, the Florida Supreme Court's judgment
ordering manual recounts is reversed. The Clause's requirements
apply to the manner in which the voting franchise is exercised. Having
once granted the right to vote on equal terms, Florida may not, by
later arbitrary and disparate treatment, value one person's vote over
that of another. See, e. g., Harper v. Virginia Bd. of Elections, 383
U. S. 663, 665. The recount mechanisms implemented in response to
the state court's decision do not satisfy the minimum requirement for
nonarbitrary treatment of voters. The record shows that the standards
for accepting or rejecting contested ballots might vary not only from
county to county but indeed within a single county from one recount
team to another. In addition, the recounts in three counties were
not limited to so-called undervotes but extended to all of the ballots.
Furthermore, the actual process by which the votes were to be counted
raises further concerns because the court's order did not specify who
would recount the ballots. Where, as here, a court orders a statewide
remedy, there must be at least some assurance that the rudimentary
requirements of equal treatment and fundamental fairness are satisfied.
The State has not shown that its procedures include the necessary safeguards. Upon due consideration of the difficulties identified to this
point, it is obvious that the recount cannot be conducted in compliance

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)

Syllabus
with the requirements of equal protection and due process without
substantial additional work. The court below has said that the legislature intended the State's electors to participate fully in the federal
electoral process, as provided in 3 U. S. C. § 5, which requires that any
controversy or contest that is designed to lead to a conclusive selection
of electors be completed by December 12. That date is here, but there
is no recount procedure in place under the state court's order that comports with minimal constitutional standards.
772 So. 2d 1243, reversed and remanded.

Theodore B. Olson argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the brief were Douglas R. Cox, Thomas G. Hungar,
Benjamin L. Ginsberg, Michael A. Carvin, Barry Richard,
Miguel A. Estrada, George J Terwilliger III, Timothy E.
Flanigan,William K. Kelley, John F. Manning,and Bradford
R. Clark. Joseph P Klock, Jr., argued the cause for Katherine Harris et al., respondents under this Court's Rule 12.6 in
support of petitioners. With him on the brief were John W.
Little III, Alvin F. Lindsay III, Ricardo M. Martinez-Cid,
and Bill L. Bryant, Jr. Briefs in support of petitioners were
filed by William Kemper Jennings for Glenda Carr et al.; by
Robert A. Destro for Stephen Cruce et al.; and by George S.
LeMieux and Frederick J. Springer for John E. Thrasher,
all respondents under this Court's Rule 12.6.
David Boies argued the cause for respondents Gore et al.
With him on the brief were Laurence H. Tribe, Andrew J.
Pincus, Thomas C. Goldstein, JonathanS. Massey, Kendall
Coffey, and Peter J. Rubin.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of
Alabama by Bill Pryor,Attorney General, and Charles B. Campbell, Scott
L. Rouse, and A. Vernon Barnett IV, Assistant Attorneys General; for
the Florida House of Representatives et al. by Charles Fried,Einer Elhauge, and Roger J Magnuson; for William H. Haynes et al. by Jay Alan
Sekulow, Thomas P. Monaghan, Stuart J Roth, Colby M. May, James M.
Henderson, Sr., David A. Cortman, Griffin B. Bell, PaulD. Clement, and
Jeffrey S. Bucholtz.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Brennan
Center for Justice at New York University School of Law by Burt Neuborne; and for Robert A. Butterworth, Attorney General of Florida, by

BUSH v. GORE

Per Curiam
PER CURIAM.

On December 8, 2000, the Supreme Court of Florida ordered that the Circuit Court of Leon County tabulate by
hand 9,000 ballots in Miami-Dade County. It also ordered
the inclusion in the certified vote totals of 215 votes identified in Palm Beach County and 168 votes identified in
Miami-Dade County for Vice President Albert Gore, Jr., and
Senator Joseph Lieberman, Democratic candidates for President and Vice President. The State Supreme Court noted
that petitioner George W. Bush asserted that the net gain
for Vice President Gore in Palm Beach County was 176
votes, and directed the Circuit Court to resolve that dispute
on remand. Gore v. Harris,772 So. 2d 1243, 1248, n. 6. The
court further held that relief would require manual recounts
in all Florida counties where so-called "undervotes" had not
been subject to manual tabulation. The court ordered all
manual recounts to begin at once. Governor Bush and Richard Cheney, Republican candidates for President and Vice
President, filed an emergency application for a stay of this
mandate. On December 9, we granted the application,
treated the application as a petition for a writ of certiorari,
and granted certiorari. Post, p. 1046.
The proceedings leading to the present controversy are
discussed in some detail in our opinion in Bush v. Palm
Beach County Canvassing Bd., ante, p. 70 (per curiam)
(Bush I). On November 8, 2000, the day following the Presidential election, the Florida Division of Elections reported
that petitioner Bush had received 2,909,135 votes, and respondent Gore had received 2,907,351 votes, a margin of
Mr. Butterworth, pro se, Paul F. Hancock, Deputy Attorney General,
Jason Vail, Assistant Attorney General, and Kimberly J Tucker.

Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the National Bar Association by
David Earl Honig; for Robert Harris et al. by Bruce J Terris, Carolyn
Smith Pravlik,Kathleen L. Millian,Sarah A. Adams, and Roger J Bernstein; and for Michael F Wasserman, pro se.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
Per Curiam

1,784 for Governor Bush. Because Governor Bush's margin
of victory was less than "one-half of a percent... of the votes
cast," an automatic machine recount was conducted under
§ 102.141(4) of the Florida Election Code, the results of which
showed Governor Bush still winning the race but by a diminished margin. Vice President Gore then sought manual recounts in Volusia, Palm Beach, Broward, and Miami-Dade
Counties, pursuant to Florida's election protest provisions.
Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.166 (Supp. 2001). A dispute arose concerning the deadline for local county canvassing boards to
submit their returns to the Secretary of State (Secretary).
The Secretary declined to waive the November 14 deadline
imposed by statute. §§ 102.111, 102.112. The Florida Supreme Court, however, set the deadline at November 26.
We granted certiorari and vacated the Florida Supreme
Court's decision, finding considerable uncertainty as to the
grounds on which it was based. Bush I, ante, at 78. On
December 11, the Florida Supreme Court issued a decision
on remand reinstating that date. Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd. v. Harris,772 So. 2d 1273, 1290.
On November 26, the Florida Elections Canvassing Commission certified the results of the election and declared
Governor Bush the winner of Florida's 25 electoral votes.
On November 27, Vice President Gore, pursuant to Florida's
contest provisions, filed a complaint in Leon County Circuit
Court contesting the certification. Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.168
(Supp. 2001). He sought relief pursuant to § 102.168(3)(c),
which provides that "[r]eceipt of a number of illegal votes
or rejection of a number of legal votes sufficient to change
or place in doubt the result of the election" shall be grounds
for a contest. The Circuit Court denied relief, stating that
Vice President Gore failed to meet his burden of proof. He
appealed to the First District Court of Appeal, which certified the matter to the Florida Supreme Court.
Accepting jurisdiction, the Florida Supreme Court affirmed in part and reversed in part. Gore v. Harris, 772

BUSH v. GORE
Per Curiam

So. 2d 1243 (2000). The court held that the Circuit Court
had been correct to reject Vice President Gore's challenge to
the results certified in Nassau County and his challenge to
the Palm Beach County Canvassing Board's determination
that 3,300 ballots cast in that county were not, in the statutory phrase, "legal votes."
The Supreme Court held that Vice President Gore had
satisfied his burden of proof under § 102.168(3)(c) with respect to his challenge to Miami-Dade County's failure to
tabulate, by manual count, 9,000 ballots on which the machines had failed to detect a vote for President ("undervotes"). Id., at 1256. Noting the closeness of the election,
the court explained that "[o]n this record, there can be no
question that there are legal votes within the 9,000 uncounted votes sufficient to place the results of this election
in doubt." Id., at 1261. A "legal vote," as determined by
the Supreme Court, is "one in which there is a 'clear indication of the intent of the voter.'" Id., at 1257. The court
therefore ordered a hand recount of the 9,000 ballots in
Miami-Dade County. Observing that the contest provisions
vest broad discretion in the circuit judge to "provide any
relief appropriate under such circumstances," § 102.168(8),
the Supreme Court further held that the Circuit Court could
order "the Supervisor of Elections and the Canvassing
Boards, as well as the necessary public officials, in all counties that have not conducted a manual recount or tabulation of the undervotes ... to do so forthwith, said tabulation
to take place in the individual counties where the ballots are
located." Id., at 1262.
The Supreme Court also determined that Palm Beach
County and Miami-Dade County, in their earlier manual recounts, had identified a net gain of 215 and 168 legal votes,
respectively, for Vice President Gore. Id., at 1260. Rejecting the Circuit Court's conclusion that Palm Beach County
lacked the authority to include the 215 net votes sub-

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)

Per Curiam

mitted past the November 26 deadline, the Supreme Court
explained that the deadline was not intended to exclude
votes identified after that date through ongoing manual recounts. As to Miami-Dade County, the court concluded that
although the 168 votes identified were the result of a partial
recount, they were "legal votes [that] could change the outcome of the election." Ibid. The Supreme Court therefore
directed the Circuit Court to include those totals in the certified results, subject to resolution of the actual vote total from
the Miami-Dade partial recount.
The petition presents the following questions: whether
the Florida Supreme Court established new standards for
resolving Presidential election contests, thereby violating
Art. II, § 1, cl. 2, of the United States Constitution and failing to comply with 3 U. S. C. § 5, and whether the use of
standardless manual recounts violates the Equal Protection
and Due Process Clauses. With respect to the equal protection question, we find a violation of the Equal Protection
Clause.
II

A
The closeness of this election, and the multitude of legal
challenges which have followed in its wake, have brought
into sharp focus a common, if heretofore unnoticed, phenomenon. Nationwide statistics reveal that an estimated 2% of
ballots cast do not register a vote for President for whatever reason, including deliberately choosing no candidate
at all or some voter error, such as voting for two candidates
or insufficiently marking a ballot. See Ho, More Than 2M
Ballots Uncounted, AP Online (Nov. 28, 2000); Kelley, Balloting Problems Not Rare But Only in a Very Close Election
Do Mistakes and Mismarking Make a Difference, Omaha
World-Herald (Nov. 15, 2000). In certifying election results,
the votes eligible for inclusion in the certification are the
votes meeting the properly established legal requirements.

BUSH v. GORE

Per Curiam

This case has shown that punchcard balloting machines
can produce an unfortunate number of ballots which are not
punched in a clean, complete way by the voter. After the
current counting, it is likely legislative bodies nationwide
will examine ways to improve the mechanisms and machinery for voting.
B
The individual citizen has no federal constitutional right
to vote for electors for the President of the United States
unless and until the state legislature chooses a statewide
election as the means to implement its power to appoint
members of the electoral college. U. S. Const., Art. II, § 1.
This is the source for the statement in McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 35 (1892), that the state legislature's
power to select the manner for appointing electors is plenary; it may, if it so chooses, select the electors itself, which
indeed was the manner used by state legislatures in several
States for many years after the framing of our Constitution.
Id., at 28-33. History has now favored the voter, and in
each of the several States the citizens themselves vote for
Presidential electors. When the state legislature vests the
right to vote for President in its people, the right to vote
as the legislature has prescribed is fundamental; and one
source of its fundamental nature lies in the equal weight
accorded to each vote and the equal dignity owed to each
voter. The State, of course, after granting the franchise in
the special context of Article II, can take back the power
to appoint electors. See id., at 35 (" '[T]here is no doubt of
the right of the legislature to resume the power at any time,
for it can neither be taken away nor abdicated'") (quoting
S. Rep. No. 395, 43d Cong., 1st Sess., 9 (1874)).
The right to vote is protected in more than the initial allocation of the franchise. Equal protection applies as well to
the manner of its exercise. Having once granted the right
to vote on equal terms, the State may not, by later arbitrary
and disparate treatment, value one person's vote over that

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)

Per Curiam

of another. See, e. g., Harperv. Virginia Bd. of Elections,
383 U. S. 663, 665 (1966) ("[O]nce the franchise is granted to
the electorate, lines may not be drawn which are inconsistent
with the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment"). It must be remembered that "the right of suffrage
can be denied by a debasement or dilution of the weight of a
citizen's vote just as effectively as by wholly prohibiting the
free exercise of the franchise." Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S.
533, 555 (1964).
There is no difference between the two sides of the present
controversy on these basic propositions. Respondents say
that the very purpose of vindicating the right to vote justifies the recount procedures now at issue. The question before us, however, is whether the recount procedures the
Florida Supreme Court has adopted are consistent with its
obligation to avoid arbitrary and disparate treatment of the
members of its electorate.
Much of the controversy seems to revolve around ballot
cards designed to be perforated by a stylus but which, either
through error or deliberate omission, have not been perforated with sufficient precision for a machine to register the
perforations. In some cases a piece of the card-a chad-is
hanging, say, by two corners. In other cases there is no
separation at all, just an indentation.
The Florida Supreme Court has ordered that the intent
of the voter be discerned from such ballots. For purposes
of resolving the equal protection challenge, it is not necessary to decide whether the Florida Supreme Court had the
authority under the legislative scheme for resolving election disputes to define what a legal vote is and to mandate a
manual recount implementing that definition. The recount
mechanisms implemented in response to the decisions of
the Florida Supreme Court do not satisfy the minimum requirement for nonarbitrary treatment of voters necessary to
secure the fundamental right. Florida's basic command for
the count of legally cast votes is to consider the "intent of

BUSH v. GORE
Per Curiam

the voter." 772 So. 2d, at 1262. This is unobjectionable as
an abstract proposition and a starting principle. The problem inheres in the absence of specific standards to ensure
its equal application. The formulation of uniform rules to
determine intent based on these recurring circumstances is
practicable and, we conclude, necessary.
The law does not refrain from searching for the intent of
the actor in a multitude of circumstances; and in some cases
the general command to ascertain intent is not susceptible
to much further refinement. In this instance, however,
the question is not whether to believe a witness but how to
interpret the marks or holes or scratches on an inanimate
object, a piece of cardboard or paper which, it is said, might
not have registered as a vote during the machine count.
The factfinder confronts a thing, not a person. The search
for intent can be confined by specific rules designed to ensure
uniform treatment.
The want of those rules here has led to unequal evaluation
of ballots in various respects. See id., at 1267 (Wells, C. J.,
dissenting) ("Should a county canvassing board count or not
count a 'dimpled chad' where the voter is able to successfully dislodge the chad in every other contest on that ballot?
Here, the county canvassing boards disagree"). As seems to
have been acknowledged at oral argument, the standards for
accepting or rejecting contested ballots might vary not only
from county to county but indeed within a single county from
one recount team to another.
The record provides some examples. A monitor in
Miami-Dade County testified at trial that he observed that
three members of the county canvassing board applied different standards in defining a legal vote. 3 Tr. 497, 499
(Dec. 3, 2000). And testimony at trial also revealed that at
least one county changed its evaluative standards during the
counting process. Palm Beach County, for example, began
the process with a 1990 guideline which precluded counting
completely attached chads, switched to a rule that consid-

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
Per Curiam

ered a vote to be legal if any light could be seen through a
chad, changed back to the 1990 rule, and then abandoned any
pretense of a per se rule, only to have a court order that the
county consider dimpled chads legal. This is not a process
with sufficient guarantees of equal treatment.
An early case in our one-person, one-vote jurisprudence
arose when a State accorded arbitrary and disparate treatment to voters in its different counties. Gray v. Sanders,
372 U. S. 368 (1963). The Court found a constitutional violation. We relied on these principles in the context of the
Presidential selection process in Moore v. Ogilvie, 394 U. S.
814 (1969), where we invalidated a county-based procedure
that diluted the influence of citizens in larger counties in
the nominating process. There we observed that "[t]he idea
that one group can be granted greater voting strength than
another is hostile to the one man, one vote basis of our representative government." Id., at 819.
The State Supreme Court ratified this uneven treatment.
It mandated that the recount totals from two counties,
Miami-Dade and Palm Beach, be included in the certified
total. The court also appeared to hold sub silentio that the
recount totals from Broward County, which were not complettd until after the original November 14 certification by
the Secretary, were to be considered part of the new certified
vote totals even though the county certification was not
contested by Vice President Gore. Yet each of the counties
used varying standards to determine what was a legal vote.
Broward County used a more forgiving standard than Palm
Beach County, and uncovered almost three times as many
new votes, a result markedly disproportionate to the difference in population between the counties.
In addition, the recounts in these three counties were not
limited to so-called undervotes but extended to all of the
ballots. The distinction has real consequences. A manual
recount of all ballots identifies not only those ballots which
show no vote but also those which contain more than one,

BUSH v. GORE

Per Curiam

the so-called overvotes. Neither category will be counted
by the machine. This is not a trivial concern. At oral argument, respondents estimated there are as many as 110,000
overvotes statewide. As a result, the citizen whose ballot
was not read by a machine because he failed to vote for a
candidate in a way readable by a machine may still have
his vote counted in a manual recount; on the other hand,
the citizen who marks two candidates in a way discernible
by the machine will not have the same opportunity to have
his vote count, even if a manual examination of the ballot
would reveal the requisite indicia of intent. Furthermore,
the citizen who marks two candidates, only one of which is
discernible by the machine, will have his vote counted even
though it should have been read as an invalid ballot. The
State Supreme Court's inclusion of vote counts based on
these variant standards exemplifies concerns with the remedial processes that were under way.
That brings the analysis to yet a further equal protection
problem. The votes certified by the court included a partial
total from one county, Miami-Dade. The Florida Supreme
Court's decision thus gives no assurance that the recounts
included in a final certification must be complete. Indeed,
it is respondents' submission that it would be consistent
with the rules of the recount procedures to include whatever
partial counts are done by the time of final certification, and
we interpret the Florida Supreme Court's decision to permit
this. See 772 So. 2d, at 1261-1262, n. 21 (noting "practical
difficulties" may control outcome of election, but certifying
partial Miami-Dade total nonetheless). This accommodation
no doubt results from the truncated contest period established by the Florida Supreme Court in Palm Beach County
CanvassingBd. v. Harris,at respondents' own urging. The
press of time does not diminish the constitutional concern.
A desire for speed is not a general excuse for ignoring equal
protection guarantees.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
Per Curiam

In addition to these difficulties the actual process by which
the votes were to be counted under the Florida Supreme
Court's decision raises further concerns. That order did
not specify who would recount the ballots. The county canvassing boards were forced to pull together ad hoc teams of
judges from various Circuits who had no previous training
in handling and interpreting ballots. Furthermore, while
others were permitted to observe, they were prohibited from
objecting during the recount.
The recount process, in its features here described, is inconsistent with the minimum procedures necessary to protect the fundamental right of each voter in the special instance of a statewide recount under the authority of a single
state judicial officer. Our consideration is limited to the
present circumstances, for the problem of equal protection
in election processes generally presents many complexities.
The question before the Court is not whether local entities,
in the exercise of their expertise, may develop different systems for implementing elections. Instead, we are presented
with a situation where a state court with the power to assure
uniformity has ordered a statewide recount with minimal
procedural safeguards. When a court orders a statewide
remedy, there must be at least some assurance that the rudimentary requirements of equal treatment and fundamental
fairness are satisfied.
Given the Court's assessment that the recount process
underway was probably being conducted in an unconstitutional manner, the Court stayed the order directing the
recount so it could hear this case and render an expedited
decision. The contest provision, as it was mandated by
the State Supreme Court, is not well calculated to sustain the confidence that all citizens must have in the outcome of elections. The State has not shown that its procedures include the necessary safeguards. The problem, for
instance, of the estimated 110,000 overvotes has not been

BUSH v. GORE

Per Curiam

addressed, although Chief Justice Wells called attention to
the concern in his dissenting opinion. See 772 So. 2d, at
1264, n. 26.
Upon due consideration of the difficulties identified to
this point, it is obvious that the recount cannot be conducted
in compliance with the requirements of equal protection
and due process without substantial additional work. It
would require not only the adoption (after opportunity for
argument) of adequate statewide standards for determining
what is a legal vote, and practicable procedures to implement them, but also orderly judicial review of any disputed
matters that might arise. In addition, the Secretary has
advised that the recount of only a portion of the ballots requires that the vote tabulation equipment be used to screen
out undervotes, a function for which the machines were
not designed. If a recount of overvotes were also required,
perhaps even a second screening would be necessary. Use
of the equipment for this purpose, and any new software
developed for it, would have to be evaluated for accuracy
by the Secretary, as required by Fla. Stat. Ann. § 101.015
(Supp. 2001).
The Supreme Court of Florida has said that the legislature intended the State's electors to "participat[e] fully in
the federal electoral process," as provided in 3 U. S. C. § 5.
772 So. 2d, at 1289; see also Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd. v. Harris,772 So. 2d 1220, 1237 (Fla. 2000). That
statute, in turn, requires that any controversy or contest
that is designed to lead to a conclusive selection of electors
be completed by December 12. That date is upon us, and
there is no recount procedure in place under the State
Supreme Court's order that comports with minimal constitutional standards. Because it is evident that any recount
seeking to meet the December 12 date will be unconstitutional for the reasons we have discussed, we reverse the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida ordering a recount to proceed.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring

Seven Justices of the Court agree that there are constitutional problems with the recount ordered by the Florida
Supreme Court that demand a remedy. See post, at 134
(SOUTER, J., dissenting); post, at 145-146 (BREYER, J., dissenting). The only disagreement is as to the remedy. Because the Florida Supreme Court has said that the Florida
Legislature intended to obtain the safe-harbor benefits of 3
U. S. C. § 5, JUSTICE BREYER's proposed remedy-remanding to the Florida Supreme Court for its ordering of a constitutionally proper contest until December 18-contemplates
action in violation of the Florida Election Code, and hence
could not be part of an "appropriate" order authorized by
Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.168(8) (Supp. 2001).
None are more conscious of the vital limits on judicial
authority than are the Members of this Court, and none
stand more in admiration of the Constitution's design to
leave the selection of the President to the people, through
their legislatures, and to the political sphere. When contending parties invoke the process of the courts, however, it
becomes our unsought responsibility to resolve the federal
and constitutional issues the judicial system has been forced
to confront.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida is reversed,
and the case is remanded for further proceedings not incon-

sistent with this opinion.
Pursuant to this Court's Rule 45.2, the Clerk is directed
to issue the mandate in this case forthwith.
It is so ordered.
with whom JUSTICE SCALIA
and JUSTICE THOMAS join, concurring.
We join the per curiam opinion. We write separately because we believe there are additional grounds that require
us to reverse the Florida Supreme Court's decision.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

BUSH v. GORE
REHNQUIST,

C. J., concurring

I
We deal here not with an ordinary election, but with an
election for the President of the United States. In Burroughs v. United States, 290 U. S. 534, 545 (1934), we said:
"While presidential electors are not officers or agents
of the federal government (In re Green, 134 U. S. 377,
379 [(1890)]), they exercise federal functions under, and
discharge duties in virtue of authority conferred by,
the Constitution of the United States. The President
is vested with the executive power of the nation. The
importance of his election and the vital character of
its relationship to and effect upon the welfare and safety
of the whole people cannot be too strongly stated."
Likewise, in Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U. S. 780, 794795 (1983) (footnote omitted), we said: "[I]n the context of
a Presidential election, state-imposed restrictions implicate
a uniquely important national interest. For the President
and the Vice President of the United States are the only
elected officials who represent all the voters in the Nation."
In most cases, comity and respect for federalism compel
us to defer to the decisions of state courts on issues of state
law. That practice reflects our understanding that the decisions of state courts are definitive pronouncements of the
will of the States as sovereigns. Cf. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64 (1938). Of course, in ordinary cases, the
distribution of powers among the branches of a State's government raises no questions of federal constitutional law,
subject to the requirement that the government be republican in character. See U.S. Const., Art. IV, § 4. But
there are a few exceptional cases in which the Constitution
imposes a duty or confers a power on a particular branch
of a State's government. This is one of them. Article II,
§ 1, cl. 2, provides that "[e]ach State shall appoint, in such
Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct," electors for
President and Vice President. (Emphasis added.) Thus,

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring

the text of the election law itself, and not just its interpretation by the courts of the States, takes on independent
significance.
In McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1 (1892), we explained
that Art. II, § 1, cl. 2, "convey[s] the broadest power of
determination" and "leaves it to the legislature exclusively
to define the method" of appointment. 146 U. S., at 27. A
significant departure from the legislative scheme for appointing Presidential electors presents a federal constitutional
question.
Title 3 U. S. C. §5 informs our application of Art. II, § 1,
cl. 2, to the Florida statutory scheme, which, as the Florida
Supreme Court acknowledged, took that statute into account. Section 5 provides that the State's selection of electors "shall be conclusive, and shall govern in the counting
of the electoral votes" if the electors are chosen under laws
enacted prior to election day, and if the selection process
is completed six days prior to the meeting of the electoral
college. As we noted in Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd., ante, at 78:
"Since §5 contains a principle of federal law that would
assure finality of the State's determination if made
pursuant to a state law in effect before the election, a
legislative wish to take advantage of the 'safe harbor'
would counsel against any construction of the Election
Code that Congress might deem to be a change in the
law."
If we are to respect the legislature's Article II powers, therefore, we must ensure that postelection state-court actions do
not frustrate the legislative desire to attain the "safe harbor"
provided by § 5.
In Florida, the legislature has chosen to hold statewide
elections to appoint the State's 25 electors. Importantly,
the legislature has delegated the authority to run the elections and to oversee election disputes to the Secretary of

BUSH v. GORE
REHNQUIST, C. J.,

concurring

State (Secretary), Fla. Stat. Ann. § 97.012(1) (Supp. 2001),
and to state circuit courts, §§ 102.168(1), 102.168(8). Isolated
sections of the code may well admit of more than one interpretation, but the general coherence of the legislative
scheme may not be altered by judicial interpretation so as
to wholly change the statutorily provided apportionment of
responsibility among these various bodies. In any election
but a Presidential election, the Florida Supreme Court can
give as little or as much deference to Florida's executives as
it chooses, so far as Article II is concerned, and this Court
will have no cause to question the court's actions. But, with
respect to a Presidential election, the court must be both
mindful of the legislature's role under Article II in choosing
the manner of appointing electors and deferential to those
bodies expressly empowered by the legislature to carry out
its constitutional mandate.
In order to determine whether a state court has infringed
upon the legislature's authority, we necessarily must examine the law of the State as it existed prior to the action of
the court. Though we generally defer to state courts on the
interpretation of state law-see, e. g., Mullaney v. Wilbur,
421 U. S. 684 (1975)-there are of course areas in which the
Constitution requires this Court to undertake an independent, if still deferential, analysis of state law.
For example, in NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson,
357 U. S. 449 (1958), it was argued that we were without
jurisdiction because the petitioner had not pursued the correct appellate remedy in Alabama's state courts. Petitioner
had sought a state-law writ of certiorari in the Alabama Supreme Court when a writ of mandamus, according to that
court, was proper. We found this state-law ground inadequate to defeat our jurisdiction because we were "unable to
reconcile the procedural holding of the Alabama Supreme
Court" with prior Alabama precedent. Id., at 456. The
purported state-law ground was so novel, in our independent

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring

estimation, that "petitioner could not fairly be deemed to

have been apprised of its existence." Id., at 457.
Six years later we decided Bouie v. City of Columbia, 378
U. S. 347 (1964), in which the state court had held, contrary
to precedent, that the state trespass law applied to black
sit-in demonstrators who had consent to enter private property but were then asked to leave. Relying upon NAACP,
we concluded that the South Carolina Supreme Court's interpretation of a state penal statute had impermissibly broadened the scope of that statute beyond what a fair reading
provided, in violation of due process. See 378 U. S., at 361362. What we would do in the present case is precisely parallel: hold that the Florida Supreme Court's interpretation
of the Florida election laws impermissibly distorted them beyond what a fair reading required, in violation of Article II.1
This inquiry does not imply a disrespect for state courts
but rather a respect for the constitutionally prescribed role
of state legislatures. To attach definitive weight to the pronouncement of a state court, when the very question at issue
is whether the court has actually departed from the statutory meaning, would be to abdicate our responsibility to enforce the explicit requirements of Article II.

ISimilarly, our jurisprudence requires us to analyze the "background
principles" of state property law to determine whether there has been a
taking of property in violation of the Takings Clause. That constitutional
guarantee would, of course, afford no protection against state power if our
inquiry could be concluded by a state supreme court holding that state
property law accorded the plaintiff no rights. See Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council, 505 U. S. 1003 (1992). In one of our oldest cases,
we similarly made an independent evaluation of state law in order to protect federal treaty guarantees. In Fairfax's Devisee v. Hunter's Lessee,
7 Cranch 603 (1813), we disagreed with the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia that a 1782 state law had extinguished the property interests of
one Denny Fairfax, so that a 1789 ejectment order against Fairfax supported by a 1785 state law did not constitute a future confiscation under
the 1783 peace treaty with Great Britain. See id., at 623; Hunterv. Fairfax's Devisee, 1 Munf. 218 (Va. 1809).

BUSH v. GORE
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring

II

Acting pursuant to its constitutional grant of authority, the
Florida Legislature has created a detailed, if not perfectly

crafted, statutory scheme that provides for appointment of
Presidential electors by direct election. Fla. Stat. Ann.
§ 103.011 (1992).

Under the statute, "[v]otes cast for the ac-

tual candidates for President and Vice President shall be
counted as votes cast for the presidential electors supporting
such candidates." Ibid. The legislature has designated the
Secretary as the "chief election officer," with the responsibility to "[o]btain and maintain uniformity in the application,
operation, and interpretation of the election laws." Fla.
Stat. Ann. § 97.012 (Supp. 2001). The state legislature has
delegated to county canvassing boards the duties of administering elections. § 102.141. Those boards are responsible
for providing results to the state Elections Canvassing Commission, comprising the Governor, the Secretary of State,
and the Director of the Division of Elections. § 102.111.
Cf. Boardman v. Esteva, 323 So. 2d 259, 268, n. 5 (1975) ("The
election process ... is committed to the executive branch of

government through duly designated officials all charged
with specific duties ....

[The] judgments [of these officials]

are entitled to be regarded by the courts as presumptively
correct ... ").

After the election has taken place, the canvassing boards
receive returns from precincts, count the votes, and in the
event that a candidate was defeated by 0.5% or less, conduct
a mandatory recount. Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.141(4) (Supp.
2001). The county canvassing boards must file certified election returns with the Department of State by 5 p.m. on the
seventh day following the election. § 102.112(1). The Elections Canvassing Commission must then certify the results
of the election. § 102.111(1).
The state legislature has also provided mechanisms both
for protesting election returns and for contesting certified

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., concurring

election results. Section 102.166 governs protests. Any
protest must be filed prior to the certification of election
results by the county canvassing board. §102.166(4)(b).
Once a protest has been filed, "[t]he county canvassing board
may authorize a manual recount." § 102.166(4)(c). If a sample recount conducted pursuant to § 102.166(5) "indicates an
error in the vote tabulation which could affect the outcome
of the election," the county canvassing board is instructed
to: "(a) Correct the error and recount the remaining precincts with the vote tabulation system; (b) Request the Department of State to verify the tabulation software; or (c)
Manually recount all ballots," § 102.166(5). In the event
a canvassing board chooses to conduct a manual recount
of all ballots, § 102.166(7) prescribes procedures for such a
recount.
Contests to the certification of an election, on the other
hand, are controlled by § 102.168. The grounds for contesting an election include "[r]eceipt of a number of illegal votes
or rejection of a number of legal votes sufficient to change
or place in doubt the result of the election." § 102.168(3)(c).
Any contest must be filed in the appropriate Florida circuit
court, § 102.168(1), and the canvassing board or election
board is the proper party defendant, § 102.168(4). Section
102.168(8) provides that "[t]he circuit judge to whom the contest is presented may fashion such orders as he or she deems
necessary to ensure that each allegation in the complaint is
investigated, examined, or checked, to prevent or correct any
alleged wrong, and to provide any relief appropriate under
such circumstances." In Presidential elections, the contest
period necessarily terminates on the date set by 3 U. S. C.
§ 5 for concluding the State's "final determination" of election controversies.
In its first decision, Palm Beach CanvassingBd. v. Harris,
772 So. 2d 1220 (2000) (HarrisI), the Florida Supreme Court
extended the 7-day statutory certification deadline estab-

BUSH v. GORE
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring

lished by the legislature.2 This modification of the code,
by lengthening the protest period, necessarily shortened
the contest period for Presidential elections. Underlying
the extension of the certification deadline and the shortchanging of the contest period was, presumably, the clear
implication that certification was a matter of significance:

The certified winner would enjoy presumptive validity, making a contest proceeding by the losing candidate an uphill
battle. In its latest opinion, however, the court empties
certification of virtually all legal consequence during the
contest, and in doing so departs from the provisions enacted
by the Florida Legislature.
The court determined that canvassing boards' decisions
regarding whether to recount ballots past the oertification
deadline (even the certification deadline established by Harris I) are to be reviewed de novo, although the Election Code
clearly vests discretion whether to recount in the boards, and
sets strict deadlines subject to the Secretary's rejection of
late tallies and monetary fines for tardiness. See Fla. Stat.
Ann. § 102.112 (Supp. 2001). Moreover, the Florida court
held that all late vote tallies arriving during the contest
period should be automatically included in the certification
regardless of the certification deadline (even the certification
deadline established by Harris I), thus virtually eliminating
both the deadline and the
Secretary's discretion to disregard
8
recounts that violate it.

Moreover, the court's interpretation of "legal vote," and
hence its decision to order a contest-period recount, plainly
departed from the legislative scheme. Florida statutory law
cannot reasonably be thought to require the counting of im2

We vacated that decision and remanded that case; the Florida Supreme
Court reissued the same judgment with a new opinion on December 11,
2000, Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd. v. Harris,772 So. 2d 1273.
1 Specifically, the Florida Supreme Court ordered the Circuit Court to
include in the certified vote totals those votes identified for Vice President
Gore in Palm Beach County and Miami-Dade County.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., concurring

properly marked ballots. Each Florida precinct before election day provides instructions on how properly to cast a vote,
Fla. Stat. Ann. § 101.46 (1992); each polling place on election day contains a working model of the voting machine it
uses, Fla. Stat. Ann. § 101.5611 (Supp. 2001); and each voting
booth contains a sample ballot, § 101.46. In precincts using
punchcard ballots, voters are instructed to punch out the
ballot cleanly:
"AFTER VOTING, CHECK YOUR BALLOT CARD
TO BE SURE YOUR VOTING SELECTIONS
ARE CLEARLY AND CLEANLY PUNCHED AND
THERE ARE NO CHIPS LEFT HANGING ON
THE BACK OF THE CARD." Instructions to Voters,
quoted in Brief for Respondent Harris et al. 13, n. 5.
No reasonable person would call it "an error in the vote
tabulation," Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.166(5) (Supp. 2001), or a
"rejection of... legal votes," § 102.168(3)(c), 4 when electronic
or electromechanical equipment performs precisely in the
manner designed, and fails to count those ballots that are
not marked in the manner that these voting instructions
explicitly and prominently specify. The scheme that the
Florida Supreme Court's opinion attributes to the legislature
is one in which machines are required to be "capable of correctly counting votes," § 101.5606(4), but which nonetheless
regularly produces elections in which legal votes are predictably not tabulated, so that in close elections manual
recounts are regularly required. This is of course absurd.
The Secretary, who is authorized by law to issue binding interpretations of the Election Code, §§ 97.012, 106.23, rejected
this peculiar reading of the statutes. See DE 00-13 (opinion
of the Division of Elections). The Florida Supreme Court,
4
It is inconceivable that what constitutes a vote that must be counted
under the "error in the vote tabulation" language of the protest phase is
different from what constitutes a vote that must be counted under the
"legal votes" language of the contest phase.

BUSH v. GORE
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring

although it must defer to the Secretary's interpretations,
see Krivanek v. Take Back Tampa Political Committee, 625
So. 2d 840, 844 (Fla. 1993), rejected her reasonable interpretation and embraced the peculiar one. See Palm Beach
County Canvassing Bd. v. Harris, 772 So. 2d 1273 (2000)
(HarrisIII).
But as we indicated in our remand of the earlier case, in
a Presidential election the clearly expressed intent of the
legislature must prevail. And there is no basis for reading
the Florida statutes as requiring the counting of improperly
marked ballots, as an examination of the Florida Supreme
Court's textual analysis shows. We will not parse that analysis here, except to note that the principal provision of the
Election Code on which it relied, § 101.5614(5), was, as Chief
Justice Wells pointed out in his dissent in Gore v. Harris,
772 So. 2d 1243, 1267 (2000) (HarrisII), entirely irrelevant.
The State's Attorney General (who was supporting the Gore
challenge) confirmed in oral argument here that never before
the present election had a manual recount been conducted
on the basis of the contention that "undervotes" should have
been examined to determine voter intent. Tr. of Oral Arg.
in Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd., 0. T. 2000,
No. 00-836, pp. 39-40; cf. Broward County Canvassing
Board v. Hogan, 607 So. 2d 508, 509 (Fla. Ct. App. 1992) (denial of recount for failure to count ballots with "hanging
paper chads"). For the court to step away from this established practice, prescribed by the Secretary, the state official
charged by the legislature with "responsibility to... [o]btain
and maintain uniformity in the application, operation, and
interpretation of the election laws," § 97.012(1), was to depart from the legislative scheme.
III
The scope and nature of the remedy ordered by the Florida Supreme Court jeopardizes the "legislative wish" to take

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring

advantage of the safe harbor provided by 3 U. S. C. § 5.
Bush v. Palm Beach County CanvassingBd., ante, at 78 (per
curiam). December 12, 2000, is the last date for a final determination of the Florida electors that will satisfy § 5. Yet
in the late afternoon of December 8th-four days before this
deadline-the Supreme Court of Florida ordered recounts of
tens of thousands of so-called "undervotes" spread through
64 of the State's 67 counties. This was done in a search for
elusive-perhaps delusive-certainty as to the exact count
of 6 million votes. But no one claims that these ballots have
not previously been tabulated; they were initially read by
voting machines at the time of the election, and thereafter
reread by virtue of Florida's automatic recount provision. No one claims there was any fraud in the election.
The Supreme Court of Florida ordered this additional recount under the provision of the Election Code giving
the circuit judge the authority to provide relief that is
"appropriate under such circumstances." Fla. Stat. Ann.
§ 102.168(8) (Supp. 2001).
Surely when the Florida Legislature empowered the
courts of the State to grant "appropriate" relief, it must have
meant relief that would have become final by the cutoff date
of 3 U. S. C. § 5. In light of the inevitable legal challenges
and ensuing appeals to the Supreme Court of Florida and
petitions for certiorari to this Court, the entire recounting
process could not possibly be completed by that date.
Whereas the majority in the Supreme Court of Florida
stated its confidence that "the remaining undervotes in these
counties can be [counted] within the required time frame,"
772 So. 2d, at 1262, n. 22, it made no assertion that the seemingly inevitable appeals could be disposed of in that time.
Although the Florida Supreme Court has on occasion taken
over a year to resolve disputes over local elections, see, e. g.,
Beckstrom v. Volusia County CanvassingBd., 707 So. 2d 720
(1998) (resolving contest of sheriff's race 16 months after the

BUSH v. GORE
REHNQUIST, C. J.,

concurring

election), it has heard and decided the appeals in the present
case with great promptness. But the federal deadlines for
the Presidential election simply do not permit even such a
shortened process.
As the dissent noted:
"In [the four days remaining], all questionable ballots
must be reviewed by the judicial officer appointed to
discern the intent of the voter in a process open to the
public. Fairness dictates that a provision be made for
either party to object to how a particular ballot is
counted. Additionally, this short time period must
allow for judicial review. I respectfully submit this cannot be completed without taking Florida's presidential
electors outside the safe harbor provision, creating the
very real possibility of disenfranchising those nearly
six million voters who are able to correctly cast their
ballots on election day." 772 So. 2d, at 1269 (opinion of
Wells, C. J.) (footnote omitted).
The other dissenters echoed this concern: "[T]he majority
is departing from the essential requirements of the law by
providing a remedy which is impossible to achieve and which
will ultimately lead to chaos." Id., at 1273 (Harding, J., dissenting, joined by Shaw, J.).
Given all these factors, and in light of the legislative intent
identified by the Florida Supreme Court to bring Florida
within the "safe harbor" provision of 3 U. S. C. § 5, the remedy prescribed by the Supreme Court of Florida cannot be
deemed an "appropriate" one as of December 8. It significantly departed from the statutory framework in place on
November 7, and authorized open-ended further proceedings
which could not be completed by December 12, thereby preventing a final determination by that date.
For these reasons, in addition to those given in the per
curiam opinion, we would reverse.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG
JUSTICE BREYER join, dissenting.

and

The Constitution assigns to the States the primary responsibility for determining the manner of selecting the Presidential electors. See Art. II, § 1, cl. 2. When questions
arise about the meaning of state laws, including election
laws, it is our settled practice to accept the opinions of the
highest courts of the States as providing the final answers.
On rare occasions, however, either federal statutes or the
Federal Constitution may require federal judicial intervention in state elections. This is not such an occasion.
The federal questions that ultimately emerged in this case
are not substantial. Article II provides that "[e]ach State
shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may
direct, a Number of Electors." Ibid. (emphasis added). It
does not create state legislatures out of whole cloth, but
rather takes them as they come-as creatures born of, and
constrained by, their state constitutions. Lest there be any
doubt, we stated over 100 years ago in McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 25 (1892), that "[w]hat is forbidden or
required to be done by a State" in the Article II context "is
forbidden or required of the legislative power under state
constitutions as they exist." In the same vein, we also observed that "[t]he [State's] legislative power is the supreme
authority except as limited by the constitution of the State."
Ibid.; cf. Smiley v. Holm, 285 U. S. 355, 367 (1932). 1 The
legislative power in Florida is subject to judicial review purl "Wherever the term 'legislature' is used in the Constitution it is necessary to consider the nature of the particular action in view." 285 U. S.,
at 366. It is perfectly clear that the meaning of the words "Manner" and
"Legislature" as used in Article II, § 1, parallels the usage in Article I, § 4,
rather than the language in Article V. U S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U. S. 779, 805 (1995). Article I, §4, and Article II, § 1, both call
upon legislatures to act in a lawmaking capacity whereas Article V simply
calls on the legislative body to deliberate upon a binary decision. As a
result, petitioners' reliance on Leser v. Garnett, 258 U. S. 130 (1922), and
Hawke v. Smith (No. 1), 253 U. S. 221 (1920), is misplaced.

BUSH v. GORE
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

suant to Article V of the Florida Constitution, and nothing
in Article II of the Federal Constitution frees the state legislature from the constraints in the State Constitution that
created it. Moreover, the Florida Legislature's own decision to employ a unitary code for all elections indicates that
it intended the Florida Supreme Court to play the same role
in Presidential elections that it has historically played in resolving electoral disputes. The Florida Supreme Court's exercise of appellate jurisdiction therefore was wholly consistent with, and indeed contemplated by, the grant of authority
in Article II.
It hardly needs stating that Congress, pursuant to 3
U. S. C. § 5, did not impose any affirmative duties upon the
States that their governmental branches could "violate."
Rather, § 5 provides a safe harbor for States to select electors in contested elections "by judicial or other methods" established by laws prior to the election day. Section 5, like
Article II, assumes the involvement of the state judiciary in
interpreting state election laws and resolving election disputes under those laws. Neither § 5 nor Article II grants
federal judges any special authority to substitute their views
for those of the state judiciary on matters of state law.
Nor are petitioners correct in asserting that the failure of
the Florida Supreme Court to specify in detail the precise
manner in which the "intent of the voter," Fla. Stat. Ann.
§ 101.5614(5) (Supp. 2001), is to be determined rises to the
level of a constitutional violation. 2 We found such a viola2The Florida statutory standard is consistent with the practice of the
majority of States, which apply either an "intent of the voter" standard
or an "impossible to determine the elector's choice" standard in ballot
recounts. The following States use an "intent of the voter" standard:
Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 16-645(A) (Supp. 2000) (standard for canvassing
write-in votes); Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-150a(j) (1999) (standard for absentee
ballots, including three conclusive presumptions); Ind. Code §3-12-1-1
(1992); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 21-A, § 1(13) (1993); Md. Ann. Code, Art.
33, § 11-302(d) (2000 Supp.) (standard for absentee ballots); Mass. Gen.
Laws § 70E (1991) (applying standard to Presidential primaries); Mich.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

tion when individual votes within the same State were
weighted unequally, see, e. g., Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S.
533, 568 (1964), but we have never before called into question
the substantive standard by which a State determines that
a vote has been legally cast. And there is no reason to think
that the guidance provided to the factfinders, specifically the
various canvassing boards, by the "intent of the voter"
standard is any less sufficient-or will lead to results any
less uniform-than, for example, the "beyond a reasonable
day by ordinary citizens in
doubt" standard employed every
3
courtrooms across this country.
Comp. Laws § 168.799a(3) (Supp. 2000); Mo. Rev. Stat. §115.453(3) (Cum.
Supp. 1998) (looking to voter's intent where there is substantial compliance with statutory requirements); Tex. Elec. Code Ann. §65.009(c) (1986);
Utah Code Ann. §20A-4-104(5)(b) (Supp. 2000) (standard for write-in
votes), § 20A-4-105(6)(a) (standard for mechanical ballots); Vt. Stat. Ann.,
Tit. 17, § 2587(a) (1982); Va. Code Ann. §24.2-644(A) (2000); Wash. Rev.
Code §29.62.180(1) (Supp. 2001) (standard for write-in votes); Wyo. Stat.
Ann. §22-14-104 (1999). The following States employ a standard in
which a vote is counted unless it is "impossible to determine the elector's
[or voter's] choice": Ala. Code § 11-46-44(c) (1992), Ala. Code § 17-13-2
(1995); Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 16-610 (1996) (standard for rejecting ballot);
Cal. Elec. Code Ann. §15154(c) (West Supp. 2000); Colo. Rev. Stat. § 1-7309(1) (1999) (standard for paper ballots), § 1-7-508(2) (standard for electronic ballots); Del. Code Ann., Tit. 15, §4972(4) (1999); Idaho Code §341203 (1981); Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. 10, § 5/7-51 (1993) (standard for primaries), § 5/17-16 (standard for general elections); Iowa Code §49.98 (1999);
Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 21-A §§696(2)(B), (4) (Supp. 2000); Minn.
Stat. § 204C.22(1) (1992); Mont. Code Ann. § 13-15-202 (1997) (not counting votes if "elector's choice cannot be determined"); Nev. Rev. Stat.
§ 293.367(d) (1995); N. Y. Elec. Law §9-112(6) (McKinney 1998); N. C. Gen.
Stat. §§ 163-169(b), 163-170 (1999); N. D. Cent. Code § 16.1-15-01(1) (Supp.
1999); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §3505.28 (1994); Okla. Stat., Tit. 26, § 7-127(6)
(1997); Ore. Rev. Stat. §254.505(1) (1991); S. C. Code Ann. § 7-13-1120
(1977); S. D. Codified Laws § 12-20-7 (1995); Tenn. Code Ann. §2-7-133(b)
(1994); W. Va. Code § 3-6-5(g) (1999).
8
Cf. Victor v. Nebraska, 511 U. S. 1, 5 (1994) ("The beyond a reasonable
doubt standard is a requirement of due process, but the Constitution neither prohibits trial courts from defining reasonable doubt nor requires
them to do so").

BUSH v. GORE
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

Admittedly, the use of differing substandards for determining voter intent in different counties employing similar
voting systems may raise serious concerns. Those concerns
are alleviated-if not eliminated-by the fact that a single
impartial magistrate will ultimately adjudicate all objections
arising from the recount process. Of course, as a general
matter, "[t]he interpretation of constitutional principles must
not be too literal. We must remember that the machinery
of government would not work if it were not allowed a little
play in its joints." Bain Peanut Co. of Tex. v. Pinson, 282
U. S. 499, 501 (1931) (Holmes, J.). If it were otherwise, Florida's decision to leave to each county the determination of
what balloting system to employ-despite enormous differences in accuracy 4-might run afoul of equal protection.
So, too, might the similar decisions of the vast majority of
state legislatures to delegate to local authorities certain decisions with respect to voting systems and ballot design.
Even assuming that aspects of the remedial scheme might
ultimately be found to violate the Equal Protection Clause,
I could not subscribe to the majority's disposition of the case.
As the majority explicitly holds, once a state legislature determines to select electors through a popular vote, the right
to have one's vote counted is of constitutional stature. As
the majority further acknowledges, Florida law holds that all
ballots that reveal the intent of the voter constitute valid
votes. Recognizing these principles, the majority nonetheless orders the termination of the contest proceeding before
all such votes have been tabulated. Under their own rea4The percentage of nonvotes in this election in counties using a punchcard system was 3.92%; in contrast, the rate of error under the more modern optical-scan systems was only 1.43%. Siegel v. LePore, 234 F. 3d 1163,
1202, 1213 (charts C and F) (CAll 2000). Put in other terms, for every
10,000 votes cast, punchcard systems result in 250 more nonvotes than
optical-scan systems. A total of 3,718,305 votes were cast under punchcard systems, and 2,353,811 votes were cast under optical-scan systems.
Ibid.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

soning, the appropriate course of action would be to remand
to allow more specific procedures for implementing the legislature's uniform general standard to be established.
In the interest of finality, however, the majority effectively
orders the disenfranchisement of an unknown number of voters whose ballots reveal their intent-and are therefore legal
votes under state law-but were for some reason rejected
by ballot-counting machines. It does so on the basis of the
deadlines set forth in Title 3 of the United States Code.
Ante, at 110. But, as I have already noted, those provisions
merely provide rules of decision for Congress to follow when
selecting among conflicting slates of electors. Supra, at 124.
They do not prohibit a State from counting what the majority concedes to be legal votes until a bona fide winner is
determined. Indeed, in 1960, Hawaii appointed two slates
of electors and Congress chose to count the one appointed
on January 4, 1961, well after the Title 3 deadlines. See
Josephson & Ross, Repairing the Electoral College, 22 J.
Legis. 145, 166, n. 154 (1996).1 Thus, nothing prevents the
majority, even if it properly found an equal protection violation, from ordering relief appropriate to remedy that violation without depriving Florida voters of their right to have
their votes counted. As the majority notes, "[a] desire for
speed is not a general excuse for ignoring equal protection
guarantees." Ante, at 108.
Finally, neither in this case, nor in its earlier opinion in
Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd. v. Harris,772 So. 2d
1220 (2000), did the Florida Supreme Court make any sub'Republican electors were certified by the Acting Governor on November 28, 1960. A recount was ordered to begin on December 13, 1960.
Both Democratic and Republican electors met on the appointed day to cast
their votes. On January 4, 1961, the newly elected Governor certified
the Democratic electors. The certification was received by Congress on
January 6, the day the electoral votes were counted. Josephson & Ross,
22 J. Legis., at 166, n. 154.

BUSH v. GORE
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

stantive change in Florida electoral law. 6 Its decisions were

rooted in long-established precedent and were consistent
with the relevant statutory provisions, taken as a whole. It
did what courts do 7---it decided the case before it in light of
the legislature's intent to leave no legally cast vote uncounted. In so doing, it relied on the sufficiency of the general "intent of the voter" standard articulated by the state
legislature, coupled with a procedure for ultimate review by
an impartial judge, to resolve the concern about disparate
evaluations of contested ballots. If we assume-as I dothat the members of that court and the judges who would
have carried out its mandate are impartial, its decision does
not even raise a colorable federal question.
What must underlie petitioners' entire federal assault on
the Florida election procedures is an unstated lack of confidence in the impartiality and capacity of the state judges
who would make the critical decisions if the vote count were
to proceed. Otherwise, their position is wholly without
merit. The endorsement of that position by the majority of
this Court can only lend credence to the most cynical appraisal of the work of judges throughout the land. It is confidence in the men and women who administer the judicial
system that is the true backbone of the rule of law. Time
will one day heal the wound to that confidence that will be
inflicted by today's decision. One thing, however, is certain.
Although we may never know with complete certainty the
identity of the winner of this year's Presidential election,
6When, for example, it resolved the previously unanswered question
whether the word "shall" in Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.111 (Supp. 2001) or the
word "may" in § 102.112 governs the scope of the Secretary of State's authority to ignore untimely election returns, it did not "change the law."
Like any other judicial interpretation of a statute, its opinion was an authoritative interpretation of what the statute's relevant provisions have
meant since they were enacted. Rivers v. Roadway Express, Inc., 511
U.7S.298, 312-313 (1994).
,"It is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to
say what the law is." Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803).

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
SOUTER, J.,

dissenting

the identity of the loser is perfectly clear. It is the Nation's
confidence in the judge as an impartial guardian of the rule
of law.
I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE SOUTER, with whom JUSTICE BREYER joins, and
with whom JUSTICE STEVENS and JUSTICE GINSBURG join
as to all but Part III, dissenting.
The Court should not have reviewed either Bush v. Palm
Beach County Canvassing Bd., ante, p. 70 (per curiam), or
this case, and should not have stopped Florida's attempt to
recount all undervote ballots, see ante, at 102, by issuing a
stay of the Florida Supreme Court's orders during the period
of this review, see Bush v. Gore, post, at 1046. If this Court
had allowed the State to follow the course indicated by the
opinions of its own Supreme Court, it is entirely possible
that there would ultimately have been no issue requiring our
review, and political tension could have worked itself out in
the Congress following the procedure provided in 3 U. S. C.
§ 15. The case being before us, however, its resolution by
the majority is another erroneous decision.
As will be clear, I am in substantial agreement with the
dissenting opinions of JUSTICE STEVENS, JUSTICE GINSBURG, and JUSTICE BREYER. I write separately only to say
how straightforward the issues before us really are.
There are three issues: whether the State Supreme
Court's interpretation of the statute providing for a contest
of the state election results somehow violates 3 U. S. C. § 5;
whether that court's construction of the state statutory provisions governing contests impermissibly changes a state law
from what the State's legislature has provided, in violation
of Article II, § 1, cl. 2, of the National Constitution; and
whether the manner of interpreting markings on disputed
ballots failing to cause machines to register votes for President (the undervote ballots) violates the equal protection or

BUSH v. GORE
SOUTER,

J., dissenting

due process guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
None of these issues is difficult to describe or to resolve.
I
The 3 U. S. C. § 5 issue is not serious. That provision sets
certain conditions for treating a State's certification of Presidential electors as conclusive in the event that a dispute over
recognizing those electors must be resolved in the Congress
under 3 U. S. C. § 15. Conclusiveness requires selection
under a legal scheme in place before the election, with results determined at least six days before the date set for
casting electoral votes. But no State is required to conform
to §5 if it cannot do that (for whatever reason); the sanction
for failing to satisfy the conditions of § 5 is simply loss of
what has been called its "safe harbor." And even that
determination is to be made, if made anywhere, in the
Congress.
II
The second matter here goes to the State Supreme Court's
interpretation of certain terms in the state statute governing election "contests," Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.168 (Supp. 2001);
there is no question here about the state court's interpretation of the related provisions dealing with the antecedent
process of "protesting" particular vote counts, § 102.166,
which was involved in the previous case, Bush v. Palm Beach
County Canvassing Bd. The issue is whether the judgment
of the State Supreme Court has displaced the state legislature's provisions for election contests: is the law as declared
by the court different from the provisions made by the legislature, to which the National Constitution commits responsibility for determining how each State's Presidential electors
are chosen? See U. S. Const., Art. II, § 1, cl. 2. Bush does
not, of course, claim that any judicial act interpreting a statute of uncertain meaning is enough to displace the legislative
provision and violate Article II; statutes require interpretation, which does not without more affect the legislative char-

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
SOUTER, J.,

dissenting

acter of a statute within the meaning of the Constitution.
Brief for Petitioner in Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd., 0. T. 2000, No. 00-836, p. 48, n. 22. What Bush does
argue, as I understand the contention, is that the interpretation of § 102.168 was so unreasonable as to transcend the accepted bounds of statutory interpretation, to the point of
being a nonjudicial act and producing new law untethered to
the legislative Act in question.
The starting point for evaluating the claim that the
Florida Supreme Court's interpretation effectively rewrote
§ 102.168 must be the language of the provision on which
Gore relies to show his right to raise this contest: that the
previously certified result in Bush's favor was produced by
"rejection of a number of legal votes sufficient to change
or place in doubt the result of the election." Fla. Stat. Ann.
§ 102.168(3)(c) (Supp. 2001). None of the state court's interpretations is unreasonable to the point of displacing the legislative enactment quoted. As I will note below, other interpretations were of course possible, and some might have
been better than those adopted by the Florida court's majority; the two dissents from the majority opinion of that court
and various briefs submitted to us set out alternatives. But
the majority view is in each instance within the bounds of
reasonable interpretation, and the law as declared is consistent with Article II.
1. The statute does not define a "legal vote," the rejection
of which may affect the election. The State Supreme Court
was therefore required to define it, and in doing that the
court looked to another election statute, § 101.5614(5), dealing with damaged or defective ballots, which contains a provision that no vote shall be disregarded "if there is a clear
indication of the intent of the voter as determined by the
canvassing board." The court read that objective of looking
to the voter's intent as indicating that the legislature probably meant "legal vote" to mean a vote recorded on a ballot
indicating what the voter intended. Gore v. Harris, 772

BUSH v. GORE
SOUTER, J.,

dissenting

So. 2d 1243, 1256-1257 (2000). It is perfectly true that the
majority might have chosen a different reading. See, e. g.,
Brief for Respondent Harris et al. 10 (defining "legal votes"
as "votes properly executed in accordance with the instructions provided to all registered voters in advance of the election and in the polling places"). But even so, there is no
constitutional violation in following the majority view; Article II is unconcerned with mere disagreements about interpretive merits.
2. The Florida court next interpreted "rejection" to determine what act in the counting process may be attacked in a
contest. Again, the statute does not define the term. The
court majority read the word to mean simply a failure to
count. 772 So. 2d, at 1257. That reading is certainly within
the bounds of common sense, given the objective to give effect to a voter's intent if that can be determined. A different reading, of course, is possible. The majority might have
concluded that "rejection" should refer to machine malfunction, or that a ballot should not be treated as "reject[ed]" in
the absence of wrongdoing by election officials, lest contests
be so easy to claim that every election will end up in one.
Cf. id., at 1266 (Wells, C. J., dissenting). There is, however,
nothing nonjudicial in the Florida majority's more hospitable reading.
3. The same is true about the court majority's understanding of the phrase "votes sufficient to change or place in
doubt" the result of the election in Florida. The court held
that if the uncounted ballots were so numerous that it was
reasonably possible that they contained enough "legal" votes
to swing the election, this contest would be authorized by
the statute.* While the majority might have thought (as
*When the Florida court ruled, the totals for Bush and Gore were then
less than 1,000 votes apart. One dissent pegged the number of uncounted
votes in question at 170,000. Gore v. Harris,772 So. 2d 1243, 1272-1273
(2000) (Harding, J., dissenting). Gore's counsel represented to us that the

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
SOUTER,

J., dissenting

the trial judge did) that a probability, not a possibility, should
be necessary to justify a contest, that reading is not required
by the statute's text, which says nothing about probability.
Whatever people of good will and good sense may argue
about the merits of the Florida court's reading, there is no
warrant for saying that it transcends the limits of reasonable
statutory interpretation to the point of supplanting the statute enacted by the "legislature" within the meaning of Article II.
In sum, the interpretations by the Florida court raise no
substantial question under Article II. That court engaged
in permissible construction in determining that Gore had instituted a contest authorized by the state statute, and it proceeded to direct the trial judge to deal with that contest
in the exercise of the discretionary powers generously conferred by Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.168(8) (Supp. 2001), to "fashion
such orders as he or she deems necessary to ensure that each
allegation in the complaint is investigated, examined, or
checked, to prevent or correct any alleged wrong, and to provide any relief appropriate under such circumstances." As
JUSTICE GINSBURG has persuasively explained in her own
dissenting opinion, our customary respect for state interpretations of state law counsels against rejection of the Florida
court's determinations in this case.
III
It is only on the third issue before us that there is a meritorious argument for relief, as this Court's per curiam opinion recognizes. It is an issue that might well have been
dealt with adequately by the Florida courts if the state proceedings had not been interrupted, and if not disposed of at
the state level it could have been considered by the Congress
in any electoral vote dispute. But because the course of
relevant figure is approximately 60,000, Tr. of Oral Arg. 62, the number of
ballots in which no vote for President was recorded by the machines.

BUSH v. GORE
SOUTER,

J., dissenting

state proceedings has been interrupted, time is short, and
the issue is before us, I think it sensible for the Court to
address it.
Petitioners have raised an equal protection claim (or, alternatively, a due process claim, see generally Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co., 455 U. S. 422 (1982)), in the charge that
unjustifiably disparate standards are applied in different
electoral jurisdictions to otherwise identical facts. It is true
that the Equal Protection Clause does not forbid the use of
a variety of voting mechanisms within a jurisdiction, even
though different mechanisms will have different levels of effectiveness in recording voters' intentions; local variety can
be justified by concerns about cost, the potential value of
innovation, and so on. But evidence in the record here suggests that a different order of disparity obtains under rules
for determining a voter's intent that have been applied (and
could continue to be applied) to identical types of ballots used
in identical brands of machines and exhibiting identical physical characteristics (such as "hanging" or "dimpled" chads).
See, e. g., Tr. 238-242 (Dec. 2-3, 2000) (testimony of Palm
Beach County Canvassing Board Chairman Judge Charles
Burton describing varying standards applied to imperfectly
punched ballots in Palm Beach County during precertification manual recount); id., at 497-500 (similarly describing
varying standards applied in Miami-Dade County); Tr. of
Hearing 8-10 (Dec. 8, 2000) (soliciting from county canvassing boards proposed protocols for determining voters' intent
but declining to provide a precise, uniform standard). I can
conceive of no legitimate state interest served by these differing treatments of the expressions of voters' fundamental
rights. The differences appear wholly arbitrary.
In deciding what to do about this, we should take account
of the fact that electoral votes are due to be cast in six days.
I would therefore remand the case to the courts of Florida
with instructions to establish uniform standards for evaluating the several types of ballots that have prompted differing

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

treatments, to be applied within and among counties when
passing on such identical ballots in any further recounting
(or successive recounting) that the courts might order.
Unlike the majority, I see no warrant for this Court to
assume that Florida could not possibly comply with this requirement before the date set for the meeting of electors,
December 18. Although one of the dissenting justices of the
State Supreme Court estimated that disparate standards potentially affected 170,000 votes, Gore v. Harris,772 So. 2d,
at 1272-1273, the number at issue is significantly smaller.
The 170,000 figure apparently represents all uncounted
votes, both undervotes (those for which no Presidential
choice was recorded by a machine) and overvotes (those rejected because of votes for more than one candidate). Tr. of
Oral Arg. 61-62. But as JUSTICE BREYER has pointed out,
no showing has been made of legal overvotes uncounted, and
counsel for Gore made an uncontradicted representation to
the Court that the statewide total of undervotes is about
60,000. Id., at 62. To recount these manually would be a
tall order, but before this Court stayed the effort to do that
the courts of Florida were ready to do their best to get that
job done. There is no justification for denying the State the
opportunity to try to count all disputed ballots now.
I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE GINSBURG,

with whom JUSTICE STEVENS joins,

and with whom JUSTICE SOUTER and JUSTICE BREYER join
as to Part I, dissenting.
I

THE CHIEF JUSTICE acknowledges that provisions of Florida's Election Code "may well admit of more than one interpretation." Ante, at 114 (concurring opinion). But instead
of respecting the state high court's province to say what the
State's Election Code means, THE CHIEF JUSTICE maintains
that Florida's Supreme Court has veered so far from the ordinary practice of judicial review that what it did cannot

BUSH v. GORE
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

properly be called judging. My colleagues have offered a
reasonable construction of Florida's law. Their construction
coincides with the view of one of Florida's seven Supreme
Court justices. Gore v. Harris,772 So. 2d 1243, 1264-1270
(Fla. 2000) (Wells, C. J., dissenting); Palm Beach County
Canvassing Bd.v. Harris,772 So. 2d 1273, 1291-1292 (Fla.
2000) (on remand) (confirming, 6 to 1, the construction of
Florida law advanced in Gore). I might join THE CHIEF
JUSTICE were it my commission to interpret Florida law.
But disagreement with the Florida court's interpretation of
its own State's law does not warrant the conclusion that the
justices of that court have legislated. There is no cause here
to believe that the members of Florida's high court have
done less than "their mortal best to discharge their oath
of office," Sumner v. Mata, 449 U.S. 539, 549 (1981), and
no cause to upset their reasoned interpretation of Florida
law.
This Court more than occasionally affirms statutory, and
even constitutional, interpretations with which it disagrees.
For example, when reviewing challenges to administrative
agencies' interpretations of laws they implement, we defer
to the agencies unless their interpretation violates "the
unambiguously expressed intent of Congress." Chevron
U S. A. Inc. v. NaturalResources Defense Council, Inc., 467
U. S.837, 843 (1984). We do so in the face of the declaration
in Article I of the United States Constitution that "All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress
of the United States." Surely the Constitution does not call
upon us to pay more respect to a federal administrative
agency's construction of federal law than to a state high
court's interpretation of its own State's law. And not uncommonly, we let stand state-court interpretations of federal
law with which we might disagree. Notably, in the habeas
context, the Court adheres to the view that "there is 'no
intrinsic reason why the fact that a man is a federal judge

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

should make him more competent, or conscientious, or
learned with respect to [federal law] than his neighbor in the
state courthouse."' Stone v. Powell, 428 U. S. 465, 494, n. 35
(1976) (quoting Bator, Finality in Criminal Law and Federal
Habeas Corpus for State Prisoners, 76 Harv. L. Rev. 441, 509
(1963)); see O'Dell v. Netherland, 521 U. S. 151, 156 (1997)
("[T]he Teague doctrine validates reasonable, good-faith interpretations of existing precedents made by state courts
even though they are shown to be contrary to later decisions.") (citing Butler v. McKellar, 494 U. S. 407, 414 (1990));

O'Connor, Trends in the Relationship Between the Federal
and State Courts from the Perspective of a State Court
Judge, 22 Wm.& Mary L. Rev. 801, 813 (1981) ("There is no
reason to assume that state court judges cannot and will not
provide a 'hospitable forum' in litigating federal constitutional questions.").
No doubt there are cases in which the proper application
of federal law may hinge on interpretations of state law.
Unavoidably, this Court must sometimes examine state law
in order to protect federal rights. But we have dealt with
such cases ever mindful of the full measure of respect we
owe to interpretations of state law by a State's highest court.
In the Contract Clause case, General Motors Corp. v.
Romein, 503 U. S.181 (1992), for example, we said that although "ultimately we are bound to decide for ourselves
whether a contract was made," the Court "accord[s] respectful consideration and great weight to the views of the State's
highest court." Id., at 187 (citing Indiana ex rel. Anderson
v. Brand, 303 U. S.95, 100 (1938)). And in Central Union
Telephone Co. v. Edwardsville, 269 U. S.190 (1925), we upheld the Illinois Supreme Court's interpretation of a state
waiver rule, even though that interpretation resulted in
the forfeiture of federal constitutional rights. Refusing to
supplant Illinois law with a federal definition of waiver,

BUSH v. GORE
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

we explained that the state court's declaration "should bind
us unless so unfair or unreasonable in its application to those
asserting a federal right as to obstruct it." Id., at 195.1
In deferring to state courts on matters of state law, we
appropriately recognize that this Court acts as an "'outside[r]' lacking the common exposure to local law which
comes from sitting in the jurisdiction." Lehman Brothers
v. Schein, 416 U. S. 386, 391 (1974). That recognition has
sometimes prompted us to resolve doubts about the meaning
of state law by certifying issues to a State's highest court,
even when federal rights are at stake. Cf. Arizonans for
Official English v. Arizona, 520 U. S.43, 79 (1997) ("Warnings against premature adjudication of constitutional questions bear heightened attention when a federal court is asked
to invalidate a State's law, for the federal tribunal risks
friction-generating error when it endeavors to construe a
novel state Act not yet reviewed by the State's highest
ISee also Lucas v. South CarolinaCoastal Council, 505 U. S.1003, 1032,
n. 18 (1992) (South Carolina could defend a regulatory taking "if an objectively reasonableapplicationof relevant precedents [by its courts] would
exclude ... beneficial uses in the circumstances in which the land is pres-

ently found"); Bishop v. Wood, 426 U. S.341, 344-345 (1976) (deciding
whether North Carolina had created a property interest cognizable under
the Due Process Clause by reference to state law as interpreted by the
North Carolina Supreme Court). Similarly, in Gurley v. Rhoden, 421
U. S.200 (1975), a gasoline retailer claimed that due process entitled him
to deduct a state gasoline excise tax in computing the amount of his sales
subject to a state sales tax, on the grounds that the legal incidence of the
excise tax fell on his customers and that he acted merely as a collector of
the tax. The Mississippi Supreme Court held that the legal incidence of
the excise tax fell on petitioner. Observing that "a State's highest court
is the final judicial arbiter of the meaning of state statutes," we said that
"[w]hen a state court has made its own definitive determination as to the
operating incidence ... [w]e give this finding great weight in determining
the natural effect of a statute, and if it is consistent with the statute's
reasonable interpretation it will be deemed conclusive." Id., at 208 (citing
American Oil Co. v. Neill, 380 U. S.451, 455-456 (1965)).

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

court."). Notwithstanding our authority to decide issues of
state law underlying federal claims, we have used the certification device to afford state high courts an opportunity to
inform us on matters of their own State's law because such
restraint "helps build a cooperative judicial federalism."
Lehman Brothers, 416 U. S., at 391.
Just last Term, in Fiore v. White, 528 U. S.23 (1999), we
took advantage of Pennsylvania's certification procedure.
In that case, a state prisoner brought a federal habeas action
claiming that the State had failed to prove an essential element of his charged offense in violation of the Due Process
Clause. Id., at 25-26. Instead of resolving the state-law
question on which the federal claim depended, we certified
the question to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court for that
court to "help determine the proper state-law predicate for
our determination of the federal constitutional questions
raised." Id., at 29; id., at 28 (asking the Pennsylvania Supreme Court whether its recent interpretation of the statute
under which Fiore was convicted .'was always the statute's
meaning, even at the time of Fiore's trial"). THE CHIEF
JUSTICE's willingness to reverse the Florida Supreme
Court's interpretation of Florida law in this case is at least
in tension with our reluctance in Fiore even to interpret
Pennsylvania law before seeking instruction from the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. I would have thought the "cautious approach" we counsel when federal courts address
matters of state law, Arizonans, 520 U. S., at 77, and our
commitment to "build[ing] cooperative judicial federalism,"
Lehman Brothers, 416 U. S., at 391, demanded greater
restraint.
Rarely has this Court rejected outright an interpretation
of state law by a state high court. Fairfax's Devisee v.
Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch 603 (1813), NAACP v. Alabama
ex rel. Patterson,357 U. S.449 (1958), and Bouie v. City of
Columbia,378 U. S.347 (1964), cited by THE CHIEF JUSTICE,

BUSH v. GORE
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

are three such rare instances. See ante, at 114-115, and
n. 1. But those cases are embedded in historical contexts
hardly comparable to the situation here. Fairfax's Devisee,
which held that the Virginia Court of Appeals had misconstrued its own forfeiture laws to deprive a British subject
of lands secured to him by federal treaties, occurred amidst
vociferous States' rights attacks on the Marshall Court. G.
Gunther & K. Sullivan, Constitutional Law 61-62 (13th ed.
1997). The Virginia court refused to obey this Court's Fairfax's Devisee mandate to enter judgment for the British subject's successor in interest. That refusal led to the Court's
pathmarking decision in Martin v. Hunter'sLessee, 1 Wheat.
304 (1816). Patterson, a case decided three months after
Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U. S. 1 (1958), in the face of Southern
resistance to the civil rights movement, held that the Alabama Supreme Court had irregularly applied its own procedural rules to deny review of a contempt order against the
NAACP arising from its refusal to disclose membership lists.
We said that "our jurisdiction is not defeated if the nonfederal ground relied on by the state court is 'without any fair
or substantial support."' 357 U. S., at 455 (quoting Ward v.
Board of Commr's of Love Cty., 253 U. S. 17, 22 (1920)).
Bouie, stemming from a lunch counter "sit-in" at the height
of the civil rights movement, held that the South Carolina
Supreme Court's construction of its trespass laws-criminalizing conduct not covered by the text of an otherwise clear
statute-was "unforeseeable" and thus violated due process
when applied retroactively to the petitioners. 378 U. S., at
350, 354.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE'S casual citation of these cases might
lead one to believe they are part of a larger collection of
cases in which we said that the Constitution impelled us to
train a skeptical eye on a state court's portrayal of state law.
But one would be hard pressed, I think, to find additional
cases that fit the mold. As JUSTICE BREYER convincingly
explains, see post, at 149-152 (dissenting opinion), this case

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

involves nothing close to the kind of recalcitrance by a state
high court that warrants extraordinary action by this Court.
The Florida Supreme Court concluded that counting every
legal vote was the overriding concern of the Florida Legislature when it enacted the State's Election Code. The court
surely should not be bracketed with state high courts of the
Jim Crow South.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE says that Article II, by providing that
state legislatures shall direct the manner of appointing electors, authorizes federal superintendence over the relationship between state courts and state legislatures, and licenses
a departure from the usual deference we give to state-court
interpretations of state law. Ante, at 115 (concurring opinion) ("To attach definitive weight to the pronouncement of a
state court, when the very question at issue is whether the
court has actually departed from the statutory meaning,
would be to abdicate our responsibility to enforce the explicit
requirements of Article II."). The Framers of our Constitution, however, understood that in a republican government,
the judiciary would construe the legislature's enactments.
See U. S. Const., Art. III; The Federalist No. 78 (A. Hamilton). In light of the constitutional guarantee to States of a
"Republican Form of Government," U. S. Const., Art. IV, §4,
Article II can hardly be read to invite this Court to disrupt
a State's republican regime. Yet THE CHIEF JUSTICE today
would reach out to do just that. By holding that Article II
requires our revision of a state court's construction of state
laws in order to protect one organ of the State from another,
THE CHIEF JUSTICE contradicts the basic principle that a
State may organize itself as it sees fit. See, e. g., Gregory v.
Ashcroft, 501 U. S.452, 460 (1991) ("Through the structure
of its government, and the character of those who exercise
government authority, a State defines itself as a sovereign.");
Highland Farms Dairy, Inc. v. Agnew, 300 U. S.608, 612
(1937) ("How power shall be distributed by a state among its
governmental organs is commonly, if not always, a question

BUSH v. GORE
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

for the state itself."). 2 Article II does not call for the scru-

tiny undertaken by this Court.
The extraordinary setting of this case has obscured the
ordinary principle that dictates its proper resolution: Federal
courts defer to a state high court's interpretations of the
State's own law. This principle reflects the core of federalism, on which all agree. "The Framers split the atom of
sovereignty. It was the genius of their idea that our citizens

would have two political capacities, one state and one federal,
each protected from incursion by the other." Saenz v. Roe,
526 U. S. 489, 504, n. 17 (1999) (citing U. S. Term Limits, Inc.
v. Thornton, 514 U. S. 779, 838 (1995) (KENNEDY, J., concurring)). THE CHIEF JUSTICE'S solicitude for the Florida Legislature comes at the expense of the more fundamental solicitude we owe to the legislature's sovereign. U. S. Const.,
Art. II, § 1, cl. 2 ("Each State shall appoint, in such Manner
as the Legislature thereofmay direct," the electors for President and Vice President (emphasis added)); ante, at 123-124

J., dissenting).8 Were the other Members of this
Court as mindful as they generally are of our system of dual
(STEVENS,

2Even in the rare case in which a State's "manner" of making and construing laws might implicate a structural constraint, Congress, not this
Court, is likely the proper governmental entity to enforce that constraint.
See U. S. Const., Amdt. 12; 3 U. S. C. §§ 1-15; cf. Ohio ex rel. Davis v.
Hildebrant,241 U. S. 565, 569 (1916) (treating as a nonjusticiable political
question whether use of a referendum to override a congressional districting plan enacted by the state legislature violates Art. I, §4); Luther v.
Borden, 7 How. 1, 42 (1849).
3
"[B]ecause the Framers recognized that state power and identity were
essential parts of the federal balance, see The Federalist No. 39, the Constitution is solicitous of the prerogatives of the States, even in an otherwise sovereign federal province. The Constitution... grants States certain powers over the times, places, and manner of federal elections
(subject to congressional revision), Art. I, §4, cl. 1 .... and allows States
to appoint electors for the President, Art. II, § 1, cl. 2." U S. Term
Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U. S. 779, 841-842 (1995) (KENNEDY, J.,
concurring).

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

sovereignty, they would affirm the judgment of the Florida
Supreme Court.
II
I agree with JUSTICE STEVENS that petitioners have not
presented a substantial equal protection claim. Ideally, perfection would be the appropriate standard for judging the
recount. But we live in an imperfect world, one in which
thousands of votes have not been counted. I cannot agree
that the recount adopted by the Florida court, flawed as it
may be, would yield a result any less fair or precise than the
certification that preceded that recount. See, e. g., McDonald v. Board of Election Comm'rs of Chicago, 394 U. S. 802,
809 (1969) (even in the context of the right to vote, the State
is permitted to reform "one step at a time") (citing Williamson v. Lee Optical of Okla., Inc., 348 U. S. 483, 489 (1955)).
Even if there were an equal protection violation, I would
agree with JUSTICE STEVENS, JUSTICE SOUTER, and JUSTICE BREYER that the Court's concern about the December
12 date, ante, at 110-111, is misplaced. Time is short in part
because of the Court's entry of a stay on December 9, several
hours after an able circuit judge in Leon County had begun
to superintend the recount process. More fundamentally,
the Court's reluctance to let the recount go forward-despite
its suggestion that "[t]he search for intent can be confined by
specific rules designed to ensure uniform treatment," ante,
at 106-ultimately turns on its own judgment about the practical realities of implementing a recount, not the judgment
of those much closer to the process.
Equally important, as JUSTICE BREYER explains, post, at
155 (dissenting opinion), the December 12 date for bringing
Florida's electoral votes into 3 U. S. C. § 5's safe harbor lacks
the significance the Court assigns it. Were that date to
pass, Florida would still be entitled to deliver electoral votes
Congress must count unless both Houses find that the votes
"ha[d] not been ... regularly given." 3 U. S. C. § 15. The
statute identifies other significant dates. See, e. g., § 7 (spec-

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

ifying December 18 as the date electors "shall meet and give
their votes"); § 12 (specifying "the fourth Wednesday in December"-this year, December 27-as the date on which
Congress, if it has not received a State's electoral votes, shall
request the state secretary of state to send a certified return
immediately). But none of these dates has ultimate significance in light of Congress' detailed provisions for determining, on "the sixth day of January," the validity of electoral
votes. § 15.
The Court assumes that time will not permit "orderly judicial review of any disputed matters that might arise." Ante,
at 110. But no one has doubted the good faith and diligence
with which Florida election officials, attorneys for all sides
of this controversy, and the courts of law have performed
their duties. Notably, the Florida Supreme Court has
produced two substantial opinions within 29 hours of oral
argument. In sum, the Court's conclusion that a constitutionally adequate recount is impractical is a prophecy the
Court's own judgment will not allow to be tested. Such an
untested prophecy should not decide the Presidency of the
United States.
I dissent.
JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE STEVENS and JusTICE GINSBURG join except as to Part I-A-l, and with whom
JUSTICE SOUTER joins as to Part I, dissenting.

The Court was wrong to take this case. It was wrong to
grant a stay. It should now vacate that stay and permit
the Florida Supreme Court to decide whether the recount
should resume.
I
The political implications of this case for the country are
momentous. But the federal legal questions presented, with
one exception, are insubstantial.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

A
1
The majority raises three equal protection problems with
the Florida Supreme Court's recount order: first, the failure
to include overvotes in the manual recount; second, the fact
that all ballots, rather than simply the undervotes, were recounted in some, but not all, counties; and third, the absence
of a uniform, specific standard to guide the recounts. As
far as the first issue is concerned, petitioners presented no
evidence, to this Court or to any Florida court, that a manual
recount of overvotes would identify additional legal votes.
The same is true of the second, and, in addition, the majority's reasoning would seem to invalidate any state provision
for a manual recount of individual counties in a statewide
election.
The majority's third concern does implicate principles of
fundamental fairness. The majority concludes that the
Equal Protection Clause requires that a manual recount be
governed not only by the uniform general standard of the
"clear intent of the voter," but also by uniform subsidiary
standards (for example, a uniform determination whether
indented, but not perforated, "undervotes" should count).
The opinion points out that the Florida Supreme Court ordered the inclusion of Broward County's undercounted "legal
votes" even though those votes included ballots that were
not perforated but simply "dimpled," while newly recounted
ballots from other counties will likely include only votes determined to be "legal" on the basis of a stricter standard.
In light of our previous remand, the Florida Supreme Court
may have been reluctant to adopt a more specific standard
than that provided for by the legislature for fear of exceeding its authority under Article II. However, since the use
of different standards could favor one or the other of the
candidates, since time was, and is, too short to permit the
lower courts to iron out significant differences through ordi-

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

nary judicial review, and since the relevant distinction was
embodied in the order of the State's highest court, I agree
that, in these very special circumstances, basic principles of
fairness should have counseled the adoption of a uniform
standard to address the problem. In light of the majority's
disposition, I need not decide whether, or the extent to
which, as a remedial matter, the Constitution would place
limits upon the content of the uniform standard.
2
Nonetheless, there is no justification for the majority's
remedy, which is simply to reverse the lower court and halt
the recount entirely. An appropriate remedy would be, instead, to remand this case with instructions that, even at
this late date, would permit the Florida Supreme Court to
require recounting all undercounted votes in Florida, including those from Broward, Volusia, Palm Beach, and MiamiDade Counties, whether or not previously recounted prior to
the end of the protest period, and to do so in accordance with
a single uniform standard.
The majority justifies stopping the recount entirely on the
ground that there is no more time. In particular, the majority relies on the lack of time for the Secretary of State (Secretary) to review and approve equipment needed to separate
undervotes. But the majority reaches this conclusion in the
absence of any record evidence that the recount could not
have been completed in the time allowed by the Florida Supreme Court. The majority finds facts outside of the record
on matters that state courts are in a far better position to
address. Of course, it is too late for any such recount to
take place by December 12, the date by which election disputes must be decided if a State is to take advantage of the
safe harbor provisions of 3 U. S. C. § 5. Whether there is
time to conduct a recount prior to December 18, when the
electors are scheduled to meet, is a matter for the state
courts to determine. And whether, under Florida law, Flor-

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

ida could or could not take further action is obviously a matter for Florida courts, not this Court, to decide. See ante,
at 111 (percuriam).
By halting the manual recount, and thus ensuring that the
uncounted legal votes will not be counted under any standard, this Court crafts a remedy out of proportion to the asserted harm. And that remedy harms the very fairness
interests the Court is attempting to protect. The manual
recount would itself redress a problem of unequal treatment
of ballots. As JUSTICE STEVENS points out, see ante, at 126,
and n. 4 (dissenting opinion), the ballots of voters in counties
that use punchcard systems are more likely to be disqualified
than those in counties using optical-scanning systems. According to recent news reports, variations in the undervote
rate are even more pronounced. See Fessenden, No-Vote
Rates Higher in Punch Card Count, N. Y. Times, Dec. 1,
2000, p. A29 (reporting that 0.3% of ballots cast in 30 Florida
counties using optical-scanning systems registered no Presidential vote, in comparison to 1.53% in the 15 counties using
Votomatic punchcard ballots). Thus, in a system that allows
counties to use different types of voting systems, voters already arrive at the polls with an unequal chance that their
votes will be counted. I do not see how the fact that this
results from counties' selection of different voting machines
rather than a court order makes the outcome any more fair.
Nor do I understand why the Florida Supreme Court's recount order, which helps to redress this inequity, must be
entirely prohibited based on a deficiency that could easily
be remedied.
B
The remainder of petitioners' claims, which are the focus
of THE CHIEF JUSTICE'S concurrence, raise no significant federal questions. I cannot agree that THE CHIEF JUSTICE'S
unusual review of state law in this case, see ante, at 135-143
(GINSBURG, J., dissenting), is justified by reference either to
Art. II, § 1, or to 3 U. S. C. § 5. Moreover, even were such

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

review proper, the conclusion that the Florida Supreme
Court's decision contravenes federal law is untenable.
While conceding that, in most cases, "comity and respect
for federalism compel us to defer to the decisions of state
courts on issues of state law," the concurrence relies on some
combination of Art. II, § 1, and 3 U. S. C. § 5 to justify its
conclusion that this case is one of the few in which we may
lay that fundamental principle aside. Ante, at 112 (opinion
of REHNQUIST, C. J.). The concurrence's primary foundation
for this conclusion rests on an appeal to plain text: Art. II,
§ l's grant of the power to appoint Presidential electors to
the state "Legislature." Ibid. But neither the text of Article II itself nor the only case the concurrence cites that interprets Article II, McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1 (1892),
leads to the conclusion that Article II grants unlimited power
to the legislature, devoid of any state constitutional limitations, to select the manner of appointing electors. See id.,
at 41 (specifically referring to state constitutional provision
in upholding state law regarding selection of electors). Nor,
as JUSTICE STEVENS points out, have we interpreted the federal constitutional provision most analogous to Art. II, § 1Art. I, § 4-in the strained manner put forth in the concurrence. Ante, at 123, and n. 1 (dissenting opinion).
The concurrence's treatment of §5 as "inform[ing]" its interpretation of Article II, § 1, cl. 2, ante, at 113 (opinion of
REHNQUIST, C. J.), is no more convincing. THE CHIEF JUSTICE contends that our opinion in Bush v. Palm Beach
County Canvassing Bd., ante, p. 70 (per curiam) (Bush I),
in which we stated that "a legislative wish to take advantage
of [§ 5] would counsel against" a construction of Florida law
that Congress might deem to be a change in law, ante, at 78,
now means that this Court "must ensure that postelection
state-court actions do not frustrate the legislative desire to
attain the 'safe harbor' provided by § 5." Ante, at 113.
However, §5 is part of the rules that govern Congress'
recognition of slates of electors. Nowhere in Bush I did we

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

establish that this Court had the authority to enforce §5.
Nor did we suggest that the permissive "counsel against"
could be transformed into the mandatory "must ensure."
And nowhere did we intimate, as the concurrence does here,
that a state-court decision that threatens the safe harbor
provision of § 5 does so in violation of Article II. The concurrence's logic turns the presumption that legislatures
would wish to take advantage of §5's "safe harbor" provision
into a mandate that trumps other statutory provisions and
overrides the intent that the legislature did express.
But, in any event, the concurrence, having conducted its
review, now reaches the wrong conclusion. It says that "the
Florida Supreme Court's interpretation of the Florida election laws impermissibly distorted them beyond what a fair
reading required, in violation of Article II." Ante, at 115
(opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.). But what precisely is the
distortion? Apparently, it has three elements. First, the
Florida court, in its earlier opinion, changed the election certification date from November 14 to November 26. Second,
the Florida court ordered a manual recount of "undercounted" ballots that could not have been fully completed by
the December 12 "safe harbor" deadline. Third, the Florida
court, in the opinion now under review, failed to give adequate deference to the determinations of canvassing boards
and the Secretary.
To characterize the first element as a "distortion," however, requires the concurrence to second-guess the way in
which the state court resolved a plain conflict in the language
of different statutes. Compare Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.166
(Supp. 2001) (foreseeing manual recounts during the protest
period) with § 102.111 (setting what is arguably too short a
deadline for manual recounts to be conducted); compare
§ 102.112(1) (stating that the Secretary "may" ignore late returns) with § 102.111(1) (stating that the Secretary "shall"
ignore late returns). In any event, that issue no longer has

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

any practical importance and cannot justify the reversal of
the different Florida court decision before us now.
To characterize the second element as a "distortion" requires the concurrence to overlook the fact that the inability
of the Florida courts to conduct the recount on time is, in
significant part, a problem of the Court's own making. The
Florida Supreme Court thought that the recount could be
completed on time, and, within hours, the Florida Circuit
Court was moving in an orderly fashion to meet the deadline.
This Court improvidently entered a stay. As a result, we
will never know whether the recount could have been
completed.
Nor can one characterize the third element as "impermissibl[e] distort[ion]" once one understands that there are two
sides to the opinion's argument that the Florida Supreme
Court "virtually eliminat[ed] the Secretary's discretion."
Ante, at 115,118 (REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring).

The Florida

statute in question was amended in 1999 to provide that the
"grounds for contesting an election" include the "rejection of
a number of legal votes sufficient to ... place in doubt the
result of the election." Fla. Stat. Ann. §§ 102.168(3), (3)(c)
(Supp. 2001). And the parties have argued about the proper
meaning of the statute's term "legal vote." The Secretary
has claimed that a "legal vote" is a vote "properly executed
in accordance with the instructions provided to all registered
voters." Brief for Respondent Harris et al. 10. On that interpretation, punchcard ballots for which the machines cannot register a vote are not "legal" votes. Id., at 14. The
Florida Supreme Court did not accept her definition. But it
had a reason. Its reason was that a different provision of
Florida election laws (a provision that addresses damaged or
defective ballots) says that no vote shall be disregarded "if
there is a clear indication of the intent of the voter as determined by the canvassing board" (adding that ballots should
not be counted "if it is impossible to determine the elector's
choice"). Fla. Stat. Ann. § 101.5614(5) (Supp. 2001). Given

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

this statutory language, certain roughly analogous judicial
precedent, e. g., Darby v. State ex rel. McCollough, 75 So. 411
(Fla. 1917) (per curiam), and somewhat similar determinations by courts throughout the Nation, see cases cited infra,
at 152, the Florida Supreme Court concluded that the term
"legal vote" means a vote recorded on a ballot that clearly
reflects what the voter intended. Gore v. Harris,772 So. 2d
1243, 1254 (2000). That conclusion differs from the conclusion of the Secretary. But nothing in Florida law requires
the Florida Supreme Court to accept as determinative the
Secretary's view on such a matter. Nor can one say that the
court's ultimate determination is so unreasonable as to
amount to a constitutionally "impermissible distort[ion]" of
Florida law.
The Florida Supreme Court, applying this definition, decided, on the basis of the record, that respondents had shown
that the ballots undercounted by the voting machines contained enough "legal votes" to place "the result[s]" of the
election "in doubt." Since only a few hundred votes separated the candidates, and since the "undercounted" ballots
numbered tens of thousands, it is difficult to see how anyone
could find this conclusion unreasonable-however strict the
standard used to measure the voter's "clear intent." Nor
did this conclusion "strip" canvassing boards of their discretion. The boards retain their traditional discretionary authority during the protest period. And during the contest
period, as the court stated, "the Canvassing Board's actions
[during the protest period] may constitute evidence that a
ballot does or does not qualify as a legal vote." Id., at 1260.
Whether a local county canvassing board's discretionary
judgment during the protest period not to conduct a manual
recount will be set aside during a contest period depends
upon whether a candidate provides additional evidence that
the rejected votes contain enough "legal votes" to place the
outcome of the race in doubt. To limit the local canvassing

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

board's discretion in this way is not to eliminate that discretion. At the least, one could reasonably so believe.
The statute goes on to provide the Florida circuit judge
with authority to "fashion such orders as he or she deems
necessary to ensure that each allegation... is investigated,
examined, or checked,... and to provide any relief appro-

priate." Fla. Stat. Ann. § 102.168(8) (Supp. 2001) (emphasis
added). The Florida Supreme Court did just that. One
might reasonably disagree with the Florida Supreme Court's
interpretation of these, or other, words in the statute. But
I do not see how one could call its plain language interpretation of a 1999 statutory change so misguided as no longer to
qualify as judicial interpretation or as a usurpation of the
authority of the state legislature. Indeed, other state courts
have interpreted roughly similar state statutes in similar
ways. See, e. g., In re Election of U S. Representativefor
Second Congressional Dist., 231 Conn. 602, 621, 653 A. 2d
79, 90-91 (1994) ("Whatever the process used to vote and to
count votes, differences in technology should not furnish a
basis for disregarding the bedrock principle that the purpose
of the voting process is to ascertain the intent of the voters");
Brown v. Carr, 130 W. Va. 455, 460, 43 S. E. 2d 401, 404-405
(1947) ("[W]hether a ballot shall be counted.., depends on
the intent of the voter ....

Courts decry any resort to

technical rules in reaching a conclusion as to the intent of
the voter").
I repeat, where is the "impermissible" distortion?
II
Despite the reminder that this case involves "an election
for the President of the United States," ante, at 112 (REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring), no preeminent legal concern, or
practical concern related to legal questions, required this
Court to hear this case, let alone to issue a stay that stopped
Florida's recount process in its tracks. With one exception,
petitioners' claims do not ask us to vindicate a constitutional

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

provision designed to protect a basic human right. See,
e. g., Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483 (1954).
Petitioners invoke fundamental fairness, namely, the need for
procedural fairness, including finality. But with the one
"equal protection" exception, they rely upon law that focuses, not upon that basic need, but upon the constitutional
allocation of power. Respondents invoke a competing fundamental consideration-the need to determine the voter's
true intent. But they look to state law, not to federal constitutional law, to protect that interest. Neither side claims
electoral fraud, dishonesty, or the like. And the more fundamental equal protection claim might have been left to the
state court to resolve if and when it was discovered to have
mattered. It could still be resolved through a remand conditioned upon issuance of a uniform standard; it does not require reversing the Florida Supreme Court.
Of course, the selection of the President is of fundamental
national importance. But that importance is political, not
legal. And this Court should resist the temptation unnecessarily to resolve tangential legal disputes, where doing so
threatens to determine the outcome of the election.
The Constitution and federal statutes themselves make
clear that restraint is appropriate. They set forth a roadmap of how to resolve disputes about electors, even after an
election as close as this one. That roadmap foresees resolution of electoral disputes by state courts. See 3 U. S. C. §5
(providing that, where a "State shall have provided, by laws
enacted prior to [election day], for its final determination of
any controversy or contest concerning the appointment of
...electors . . . by judicial or other methods," the subse-

quently chosen electors enter a safe harbor free from congressional challenge). But it nowhere provides for involvement by the United States Supreme Court.
To the contrary, the Twelfth Amendment commits to Congress the authority and responsibility to count electoral
votes. A federal statute, the Electoral Count Act, enacted

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

after the close 1876 Hayes-Tilden Presidential election, specifies that, after States have tried to resolve disputes (through
"judicial" or other means), Congress is the body primarily
authorized to resolve remaining disputes. See Electoral
Count Act of 1887, 24 Stat. 373, 3 U. S. C. §§ 5, 6, and 15.
The legislative history of the Act makes clear its intent to
commit the power to resolve such disputes to Congress,
rather than the courts:
"The two Houses are, by the Constitution, authorized
to make the count of electoral votes. They can only
count legal votes, and in doing so must determine, from
the best evidence to be had, what are legal votes ....

"The power to determine rests with the two
and there is no other constitutional tribunal."
Rep. No. 1638, 49th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 (1886)
submitted by Rep. Caldwell, Select Committee
Election of President and Vice-President).

houses,
H. R.
(report
on the

The Member of Congress who introduced the Act added:
"The power to judge of the legality of the votes is a
necessary consequent of the power to count. The existence of this power is of absolute necessity to the preservation of the Government. The interests of all the
States in their relations to each other in the Federal
Union demand that the ultimate tribunal to decide
upon the election of President should be a constituent
body, in which the States in their federal relationships and the people in their sovereign capacity should
be represented." 18 Cong. Rec. 30 (1886) (remarks of
Rep. Caldwell).
"Under the Constitution who else could decide? Who
is nearer to the State in determining a question of vital
importance to the whole union of States than the constituent body upon whom the Constitution has devolved the
duty to count the vote?" Id., at 31.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

The Act goes on to set out rules for the congressional determination of disputes about those votes. If, for example,
a State submits a single slate of electors, Congress must
count those votes unless both Houses agree that the votes
"have not been ... regularly given." 3 U. S. C. § 15. If, as
occurred in 1876, a State submits two slates of electors, then
Congress must determine whether a slate has entered the
safe harbor of § 5, in which case its votes will have "conclusive" effect. Ibid. If, as also occurred in 1876, there is controversy about "which of two or more of such State authorities.., is the lawful tribunal" authorized to appoint electors,
then each House shall determine separately which votes are
"supported by the decision of such State so authorized by its
law." Ibid. If the two Houses of Congress agree, the votes
they have approved will be counted. If they disagree, then
"the votes of the electors whose appointment shall have been
certified by the executive of the State, under the seal
thereof, shall be counted." Ibid.
Given this detailed, comprehensive scheme for counting
electoral votes, there is no reason to believe that federal law
either foresees or requires resolution of such a political issue
by this Court. Nor, for that matter, is there any reason to
think that the Constitution's Framers would have reached a
different conclusion. Madison, at least, believed that allowing the judiciary to choose the Presidential electors "was
out of the question." Madison, July 25, 1787 (reprinted in
5 Elliot's Debates on the Federal Constitution 363 (2d ed.
1876)).
The decision by both the Constitution's Framers and the
1886 Congress to minimize this Court's role in resolving close
federal Presidential elections is as wise as it is clear. However awkward or difficult it may be for Congress to resolve
difficult electoral disputes, Congress, being a political body,
expresses the people's will far more accurately than does an
unelected Court. And the people's will is what elections
are about.

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

Moreover, Congress was fully aware of the danger that
would arise should it ask judges, unarmed with appropriate
legal standards, to resolve a hotly contested Presidential
election contest. Just after the 1876 Presidential election,
Florida, South Carolina, and Louisiana each sent two slates
of electors to Washington. Without these States, Tilden,
the Democrat, had 184 electoral votes, one short of the number required to win the Presidency. With those States,
Hayes, his Republican opponent, would have had 185. In
order to choose between the two slates of electors, Congress
decided to appoint an electoral commission composed of five
Senators, five Representatives, and five Supreme Court Justices. Initially the Commission was to be evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats, with Justice David Davis,
an Independent, to possess the decisive vote. However,
when at the last minute the Illinois Legislature elected Justice Davis to the United States Senate, the final position on
the Commission was filled by Supreme Court Justice Joseph
P. Bradley.
The Commission divided along partisan lines, and the responsibility to cast the deciding vote fell to Justice Bradley.
He decided to accept the votes of the Republican electors,
and thereby awarded the Presidency to Hayes.
Justice Bradley immediately became the subject of vociferous attacks. Bradley was accused of accepting bribes, of
being captured by railroad interests, and of an eleventh-hour
change in position after a night in which his house "was surrounded by the carriages" of Republican partisans and railroad officials. C. Woodward, Reunion and Reaction 159-160
(1966). Many years later, Professor Bickel concluded that
Bradley was honest and impartial. He thought that "'the
great question' for Bradley was, in fact, whether Congress
was entitled to go behind election returns or had to accept
them as certified by state authorities," an "issue of principle." The Least Dangerous Branch 185 (1962). Nonetheless, Bickel points out, the legal question upon which Justice

Cite as: 531 U. S. 98 (2000)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

Bradley's decision turned was not very important in the contemporaneous political context. He says that "in the circumstances the issue of principle was trivial, it was overwhelmed by all that hung in the balance, and it should not
have been decisive." Ibid.
For present purposes, the relevance of this history lies in
the fact that the participation in the work of the electoral
commission by five Justices, including Justice Bradley, did
not lend that process legitimacy. Nor did it assure the public that the process had worked fairly, guided by the law.
Rather, it simply embroiled Members of the Court in partisan conflict, thereby undermining respect for the judicial
process. And the Congress that later enacted the Electoral
Count Act knew it.
This history may help to explain why I think it not only
legally wrong, but also most unfortunate, for the Court simply to have terminated the Florida recount. Those who caution judicial restraint in resolving political disputes have described the quintessential case for that restraint as a case
marked, among other things, by the "strangeness of the
issue," its "intractability to principled resolution," its "sheer
momentousness,.., which tends to unbalance judicial judgment," and "the inner vulnerability, the self-doubt of an institution which is electorally irresponsible and has no earth to
draw strength from." Id., at 184. Those characteristics
mark this case.
At the same time, as I have said, the Court is not acting
to vindicate a fundamental constitutional principle, such as
the need to protect a basic human liberty. No other strong
reason to act is present. Congressional statutes tend to obviate the need. And, above all, in this highly politicized
matter, the appearance of a split decision runs the risk of
undermining the public's confidence in the Court itself.
That confidence is a public treasure. It has been built
slowly over many years, some of which were marked by a
Civil War and the tragedy of segregation. It is a vitally

BUSH v. GORE
BREYER,

J., dissenting

necessary ingredient of any successful effort to protect basic
liberty and, indeed, the rule of law itself. We run no risk of
returning to the days when a President (responding to this
Court's efforts to protect the Cherokee Indians) might have
said, "John Marshall has made his decision; now let him
enforce it!" D. Loth, Chief Justice John Marshall and The
Growth of the American Republic 365 (1948). But we do
risk a self-inflicted wound-a wound that may harm not just
the Court, but the Nation.
I fear that in order to bring this agonizingly long election
process to a definitive conclusion, we have not adequately
attended to that necessary "check upon our own exercise of
power," "our own sense of self-restraint." United States v.
Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 79 (1936) (Stone, J., dissenting). Justice
Brandeis once said of the Court, "The most important thing
we do is not doing." Bickel, supra, at 71. What it does
today, the Court should have left undone. I would repair
the damage as best we now can, by permitting the Florida
recount to continue under uniform standards.
I respectfully dissent.

