OCTOBER TERM, 2000
Syllabus

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
ALABAMA ET AL. v. GARRETT ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 99-1240.

Argued October 11, 2000-Decided February 21, 2001

Respondents Garrett and Ash filed separate lawsuits against petitioners,
Alabama state employers, seeking money damages under Title I of the

Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), which prohibits the
States and other employers from "discriminat[ing] against a qualified
individual with a disability because of th[at] disability . . . in regard
to . . . terms, conditions, and privileges of employment," 42 U. S. C.

§ 12112(a). In an opinion disposing of both cases, the District Court
granted petitioners summary judgment, agreeing with them that the
ADA exceeds Congress' authority to abrogate the State's Eleventh
Amendment immunity. The Eleventh Circuit reversed on the ground
that the ADA validly abrogates such immunity.
Held: Suits in federal court by state employees to recover money damages
by reason of the State's failure to comply with Title I of the ADA are
barred by the Eleventh Amendment. Pp. 363-374.
(a) Congress may abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity when it both unequivocally intends to do so and acts pursuant to
a valid grant of constitutional authority. Kimel v. FloridaBd. of Regents, 528 U. S. 62, 73. Only the second of these requirements is in
dispute here. While Congress may not base abrogation of state immunity upon its Article I powers, see, e. g., id., at 79, it may subject nonconsenting States to federal-court suit when it does so pursuant to a valid
exercise of its power under § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, see, e. g.,
id., at 80. Section 5 authorizes Congress to enforce the substantive
guarantees contained in § 1 of that Amendment by enacting "appropriate legislation." See City of Boerne v. Flores, 521 U. S. 507, 536.
Because it is this Court's responsibility, not Congress', to define the
substance of constitutional guarantees, id., at 519-524, § 5 legislation, to
the extent it reaches beyond the precise scope of § l's protections, must
exhibit congruence and proportionality between the injury to be prevented or remedied and the means adopted to that end, id., at 520.
Pp. 363-365.
(b) The first step in applying these principles is to identify with some
precision the scope of the constitutional right at issue. Here, that inquiry requires examination of the limitations § 1 of the Fourteenth

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Syllabus
Amendment places upon States' treatment of the disabled. To do so,
the Court looks to its prior decisions under the Equal Protection Clause
dealing with this issue. Kimel, supra, at 83. In Cleburne v. Cleburne
Living Center,Inc., 473 U. S. 432, the Court held, inter alia, that mental
retardation did not qualify as a "quasi-suspect" classification for equal
protection purposes, id., at 435, and that, accordingly, a city ordinance
requiring a special use permit for the operation of a group home for
the mentally retarded incurred only the minimum "rational-basis" review applicable to general social and economic legislation, id., at 446.
Although "negative attitudes" and "fear" often accompany irrational
biases, their presence alone does not a constitutional violation make.
Thus, the Fourteenth Amendment does not require States to make special accommodations for the disabled, so long as their actions toward
such individuals are rational. They could quite hardheadedly-and
perhaps hardheartedly-hold to job-qualification requirements which
do not make allowance for the disabled. If special accommodations for
the disabled are to be required, they have to come from positive law and
not through the Equal Protection Clause. Pp. 365-368.
(c) The requirements for private individuals to recover money damages against the States-that there be state discrimination violative
of the Fourteenth Amendment and that the remedy imposed by Congress be congruent and proportional to the targeted violation-are not
met here. First, the ADA's legislative record fails to show that Congress identified a history and pattern of irrational employment discrimination by the States against the disabled. See, e. g., Kinel, supra,
at 89. Because Eleventh Amendment immunity does not extend to
local governmental units such as cities and counties, see Lincoln County
v. Luning, 133 U. S. 529, 530, the Court rejects respondents' contention
that the inquiry as to unconstitutional discrimination should extend to
such units as well as to States. Congress made a general finding in
the ADA that "historically, society has tended to isolate and segregate
individuals with disabilities, and, despite some improvements, such
forms of discrimination.., continue to be a serious and pervasive social
problem." 42 U. S. C. § 12101(a)(2). Although the record includes instances to support such a finding, the great majority of these incidents
do not deal with state activities in employment. Even if it were to be
determined that the half a dozen relevant examples from the record
showed unconstitutional action on the part of States, these incidents
taken together fall far short of even suggesting the pattern of unconstitutional discrimination on which §5 legislation must be based. See,
e. g., Kimel, supra, at 89-91. Moreover, statements in House and Senate committee reports indicate that Congress targeted the ADA at employment discrimination in the private sector. Second, the rights and

358

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Syllabus

remedies created by the ADA against the States raise the same sort
of concerns as to congruence and proportionality as were found in
City of Boerne, supra. For example, while it would be entirely rational
(and therefore constitutional) for a state employer to conserve scarce
financial resources by hiring employees able to use existing facilities,
the ADA requires employers to make such facilities readily accessible
to and usable by disabled individuals, §§ 12112(5)(B), 12111(9). The
ADA does except employers from the "reasonable accommodatio[n]" requirement where the employer can demonstrate that accommodation
would impose an "undue hardship" upon it, § 12112(b)(5)(A), but, even
with this exception, the accommodation duty far exceeds what is constitutionally required. The ADA's constitutional shortcomings are apparent when it is compared to the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Holding
the latter Act to be "appropriate" legislation to enforce the Fifteenth
Amendment's protection against racial discrimination in voting, South
Carolinav. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, this Court emphasized that Congress had there documented a marked pattern of unconstitutional
action by the States, see id., at 312, and had determined that litigation
had proved ineffective to remedy the problem, see id., at 313. The contrast between the kind of evidence detailed in Katzenbach, and the
evidence that Congress considered in the present case, is stark. To
uphold the ADA's application to the States would allow Congress to
rewrite the Fourteenth Amendment law laid down by this Court in Cleburne. Section 5 does not so broadly enlarge congressional authority.
Pp. 368-374.
193 F. 3d 1214, reversed.
REHNQUIST, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'CONNOR, SCALIA, KENNEDY, and THOMAS, JJ., joined. KENNEDY, J., filed
a concurring opinion, in which O'CONNOR, J., joined, post, p. 374.
BREYER, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which STEVENS, SOUTER, and
GINSBURG, JJ., joined, post, p. 376.

Jeffrey S. Sutton argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Bill Pryor,Attorney General of Alabama, Alice Ann Byrne and MargaretL. Fleming,Assistant
Attorneys General, Gregory G. Katsas, and Lisa Huggins.
Michael H. Gottesman argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Arlene Mayerson, Laurence
Gold, Deborah Mattison, Sandra Reiss, Ira Burnim, and
Jennifer Mathis.
Solicitor General Waxman argued the cause for the
United States as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Counsel

him on the brief were Assistant Attorney General Lee,
Deputy Solicitor General Underwood, PatriciaA. Millett,
Jessica Dunsay Silver, and Seth M. Galanter.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of
Hawaii et al. by Audrey J Anderson, Earl I. Anzai, Attorney General
of Hawaii, Charles F Fell, Senior Deputy Attorney General, and Nancy
Albano, Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their
respective States as follows: Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Alan G. Lance of
Idaho, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papaof Nevada, Betty
D. Montgomery of Ohio, and Paul G. Summers of Tennessee; for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger; and for the Pacific
Legal Foundation by Anne M. Hayes and M. Reed Hopper.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
Minnesota et al. by Mike Hatch, Attorney General of Minnesota, Alan
I. Gilbert,Chief Deputy Attorney General, and W. Karl Hansen, Assistant
Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective
States as follows: Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Richard Blumenthal
of Connecticut, James E. Ryan of Illinois, Thomas J Miller of Iowa, A. B.
"Ben" Chandler III of Kentucky, J Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland,
Thomas F Reilly of Massachusetts, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri,
PatriciaA. Madrid of New Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of New York, Heidi
Heitkamp of North Dakota, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, and Christine
0. Gregoire of Washington; for the American Association on Mental Retardation et al. by James W. Ellis, Michael B. Browde, and Christian G.
Fritz; for the American Association of People with Disabilities et al. by
John Townsend Rich; for the American Bar Association by Robert Lewin,
James A. Shifren, and Claude G. Szyfer; for the American Cancer Society
by Daniel G. Jarcho, Michael J Haungs, William J Dalton, and Mary
P. Rouvelas; for the Lambda Legal Defense & Education Fund, Inc., et al.
by Catherine A. Hanssens and David S. Buckel; for the National Association of Protection and Advocacy Systems et al. by Mark E. Haddad,
Jacqueline G. Cooper, and Sharon Masling; for the National Council on
Disability by Robert L. Burgdorf, Jr.; for Self-Advocates Becoming Empowered et al. by Thomas K. Gilhool, Michael Churchill, BarbaraRansom, and Max Lapertosa;for the Voice of the Retarded et al. by William
J Burke and Tamie Hopp; for Senator Robert Dole et al. by Chai R.
Feldblum; and for Law Professors by Leo G. Rydzewski.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Association of State Correctional Administrators by Marci A. Hamilton; for the Coalition for Local
Sovereignty by Kenneth B. Clark; for the National Employment Lawyers
Association et al. by Daniel F Goldstein, C. ChristopherBrown, and Merl
H. Wayman; for Paralyzed Veterans of America et al. by Ted G. Dane

360

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Opinion of the Court

CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We decide here whether employees of the State of Alabama may recover money damages by reason of the State's
failure to comply with the provisions of Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA or Act), 104 Stat.
330, 42 U. S. C. §§ 12111-12117.1 We hold that such suits are
barred by the Eleventh Amendment.
The ADA prohibits certain employers, including the
States, from "discriminat[ing] against a qualified individual
and Eve Hill; for the Southern Poverty Law Center by Pamela L. Sumners and Elizabeth J Hubertz; and for Morton Horwitz et al. by Kenneth
W. Brothers, Elizabeth B. McCallum, and Claudia Center. A. Stephen
Hut, Jr., filed a statement by former President George H.W.Bush as
amicus curiae.
1 Respondents' complaints in the United States District Court alleged
violations of both Title I and Title II of the ADA, and petitioners' "Question Presented" can be read to apply to both sections. See Brief for Petitioners i; Brief for United States I. Though the briefs of the parties discuss both sections in their constitutional arguments, no party has briefed
the question whether Title II of the ADA, dealing with the "services,
programs, or activities of a public entity," 42 U. S. C. § 12132, is available
for claims of employment discrimination when Title I of the ADA expressly deals with that subject. See, e. g., Russello v. United States, 464
U. S.16, 23 (1983) ("[W]here Congress includes particular language in one
section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is
generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the
disparate inclusion or exclusion" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
The Courts of Appeals are divided on this issue, compare Zimmerman v.
Oregon Dept. of Justice, 170 F. 3d 1169 (CA9 1999), with Bledsoe v. Palm
Beach Cty. Soil & Water Conservation Dist., 133 F. 3d 816 (CAll 1998).
We are not disposed to decide the constitutional issue whether Title II,
which has somewhat different remedial provisions from Title I, is appropriate legislation under § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment when the parties have not favored us with briefing on the statutory question. To the
extent the Court granted certiorari on the question whether respondents
may sue their state employers for damages under Title II of the ADA, see
this Court's Rule 24.1(a), that portion of the writ is dismissed as improvidently granted. See The Monrosa v. CarbonBlack Export, Inc., 359 U. S.
180, 184 (1959).

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

with a disability because of the disability of such individual
in regard to job application procedures, the hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees, employee compensation, job
training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment." §§ 12112(a), 12111(2), (5), (7). To this end, the
Act requires employers to "mak[e] reasonable accommodations to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant
or employee, unless [the employer] can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the [employer's] business." § 12112(b)(5)(A).
"'[R]easonable accommodation' may include"(A) making existing facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities; and (B) job restructuring, part-time or modified
work schedules, reassignment to a vacant position, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, appropriate adjustment or modifications of examinations,
training materials or policies, the provision of qualified
readers or interpreters, and other similar accommodations for individuals with disabilities." § 12111(9).
The Act also prohibits employers from "utilizing standards, criteria, or methods of administration . .. that have

the effect of discrimination on the basis of disability."
§ 12112(b)(3)(A).
The Act defines "disability" to include "(A) a physical or
mental impairment that substantially limits one or more
of the major life activities of such individual; (B) a record of
such an impairment; or (C) being regarded as having such an
impairment." § 12102(2). A disabled individual is otherwise "qualified" if he or she, "with or without reasonable
accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the
employment position that such individual holds or desires."
§ 12111(8).

362

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Opinion of the Court

Respondent Patricia Garrett, a registered nurse, was employed as the Director of Nursing, OB/Gyn/Neonatal Services, for the University of Alabama in Birmingham Hospital.
See App. 31, 38. In 1994, Garrett was diagnosed with breast
cancer and subsequently underwent a lumpectomy, radiation
treatment, and chemotherapy. See id., at 38. Garrett's
treatments required her to take substantial leave from work.
Upon returning to work in July 1995, Garrett's supervisor
informed Garrett that she would have to give up her Director position. See id., at 39. Garrett then applied for and
received a transfer to another, lower paying position as a
nurse manager. See ibid.
Respondent Milton Ash worked as a security officer for
the Alabama Department of Youth Services (Department).
See id., at 8. Upon commencing this employment, Ash informed the Department that he suffered from chronic asthma
and that his doctor recommended he avoid carbon monoxide
and cigarette smoke, and Ash requested that the Department modify his duties to minimize his exposure to these
substances. See ibid. Ash was later diagnosed with sleep
apnea and requested, again pursuant to his doctor's recommendation, that he be reassigned to daytime shifts to accommodate his condition. See id., at 9. Ultimately, the Department granted none of the requested relief. See id., at
8-9. Shortly after Ash filed a discrimination claim with the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, he noticed that
his performance evaluations were lower than those he had
received on previous occasions. See id., at 9.
Garrett and Ash filed separate lawsuits in the District
Court, both seeking money damages under the ADA.2 Petitioners moved for summary judgment, claiming that the
ADA exceeds Congress' authority to abrogate the State's
Eleventh Amendment immunity. See 989 F. Supp. 1409,
1410 (ND Ala. 1998). In a single opinion disposing of both
2 Garrett raised other claims, but those are not presently before the

Court.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

cases, the District Court agreed with petitioners' position
and granted their motions for summary judgment. See id.,
at 1410, 1412. The cases were consolidated on appeal to the
Eleventh Circuit. The Court of Appeals reversed, 193 F. 3d
1214 (1999), adhering to its intervening decision in Kimel v.
State Bd. of Regents, 139 F. 3d 1426, 1433 (CAll 1998), aff'd,
528 U. S. 62 (2000), that the ADA validly abrogates the
States' Eleventh Amendment immunity.
We granted certiorari, 529 U. S. 1065 (2000), to resolve a
split among the Courts of Appeals on the question whether
an individual may sue a State for money damages in federal
court under the ADA.
I
The Eleventh Amendment provides:
"The Judicial power of the United States shall not be
construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States
by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects
of any Foreign State."
Although by its terms the Amendment applies only to suits
against a State by citizens of another State, our cases have
extended the Amendment's applicability to suits by citizens
against their own States. See Kimel v. FloridaBd. of Regents, 528 U. S. 62, 72-73 (2000); College Savings Bank v.
FloridaPrepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd., 527 U. S.
666, 669-670 (1999); Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida,517
U. S. 44, 54 (1996); Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, 15 (1890).
The ultimate guarantee of the Eleventh Amendment is that
nonconsenting States may not be sued by private individuals
in federal court. See Kimel, supra, at 73.
We have recognized, however, that Congress may abrogate
the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity when it both
unequivocally intends to do so and "act[s] pursuant to a valid
grant of constitutional authority." 528 U. S., at 73. The

364

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Opinion of the Court

first of these requirements is not in dispute here. See 42
U. S. C. § 12202 ("A State shall not be immune under the
eleventh amendment to the Constitution of the United States
from an action in [a] Federal or State court of competent
jurisdiction for a violation of this chapter"). The question,
then, is whether Congress acted within its constitutional authority by subjecting the States to suits in federal court for
money damages under the ADA.
Congress may not, of course, base its abrogation of the
States' Eleventh Amendment immunity upon the powers
enumerated in Article I. See Kimel, supra, at 79 ("Under
our firmly established precedent then, if the [Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967] rests solely on Congress'
Article I commerce power, the private petitioners in today's
cases cannot maintain their suits against their state employers"); Seminole Tribe, supra, at 72-73 ("The Eleventh
Amendment restricts the judicial power under Article III,
and Article I cannot be used to circumvent the constitutional
limitations placed upon federal jurisdiction"); College Savings Bank, supra, at 672; Florida Prepaid Postsecondary
Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank, 527 U. S. 627, 636
(1999); Alden v. Maine, 527 U. S. 706, 730-733 (1999). In
Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427 U. S. 445 (1976), however, we held
that "the Eleventh Amendment, and the principle of state
sovereignty which it embodies, are necessarily limited by
the enforcement provisions of § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment." Id., at 456 (citation omitted). As a result, we concluded, Congress may subject nonconsenting States to suit
in federal court when it does so pursuant to a valid exercise
of its § 5 power. See ibid. Our cases have adhered to this
proposition. See, e. g., Kimel, supra, at 80. Accordingly,
the ADA can apply to the States only to the extent that the
statute is appropriate § 5 legislation.'
I It is clear that Congress intended to invoke § 5 as one of its bases for
enacting the ADA. See 42 U. S. C. § 12101(b)(4).

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment provides, in relevant part:

"No State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; nor shall any State deprive any person
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law;
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws."
Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment grants Congress the
power to enforce the substantive guarantees contained in § 1
by enacting "appropriate legislation." See City of Boerne
v. Flores, 521 U. S. 507, 536 (1997). Congress is not limited
to mere legislative repetition of this Court's constitutional
jurisprudence. "Rather, Congress' power 'to enforce' the
Amendment includes the authority both to remedy and to
deter violation of rights guaranteed thereunder by prohibiting a somewhat broader swath of conduct, including
that which is not itself forbidden by the Amendment's text."
Kimel, supra, at 81; City of Boerne, supra, at 536.
City of Boerne also confirmed, however, the long-settled
principle that it is the responsibility of this Court, not Congress, to define the substance of constitutional guarantees.
521 U. S., at 519-524. Accordingly, § 5 legislation reaching
beyond the scope of § l's actual guarantees must exhibit
"congruence and proportionality between the injury to be
prevented or remedied and the means adopted to that end."
Id., at 520.
II
The first step in applying these now familiar principles is
to identify with some precision the scope of the constitutional
right at issue. Here, that inquiry requires us to examine
the limitations § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment places upon
States' treatment of the disabled. As we did last Term in
Kimel, see 528 U. S., at 83, we look to our prior decisions
under the Equal Protection Clause dealing with this issue.

366

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Opinion of the Court

In Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U. S. 432
(1985), we considered an equal protection challenge to a
city ordinance requiring a special use permit for the operation of a group home for the mentally retarded. The specific question before us was whether the Court of Appeals
had erred by holding that mental retardation qualified as
a "quasi-suspect" classification under our equal protection
jurisprudence. Id., at 435. We answered that question in
the affirmative, concluding instead that such legislation
incurs only the minimum "rational-basis" review applicable
to general social and economic legislation.4 Id., at 446. In
a statement that today seems quite prescient, we explained
that
"if the large and amorphous class of the mentally retarded were deemed quasi-suspect for the reasons given
by the Court of Appeals, it would be difficult to find a
principled way to distinguish a variety of other groups
who have perhaps immutable disabilities setting them
off from others, who cannot themselves mandate the
desired legislative responses, and who can claim some
degree of prejudice from at least part of the public at
large. One need mention in this respect only the aging,
the disabled, the mentally ill, and the infirm. We are
reluctant to set out on that course, and we decline to
do so." Id., at 445-446.
Under rational-basis review, where a group possesses
"distinguishing characteristics relevant to interests the
State has the authority to implement," a State's decision
4

Applying the basic principles of rationality review, Cleburne struck
down the city ordinance in question. 473 U. S., at 447-450. The Court's
reasoning was that the city's purported justifications for the ordinance
made no sense in light of how the city treated other groups similarly situated in relevant respects. Although the group home for the mentally retarded was required to obtain a special use permit, apartment houses,
other multiple-family dwellings, retirement homes, nursing homes, sanitariums, hospitals, boarding houses, fraternity and sorority houses, and
dormitories were not subject to the ordinance. See ibid.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Opinion of the Court

to act on the basis of those differences does not give rise to
a constitutional violation. Id., at 441. "Such a classification
cannot run afoul of the Equal Protection Clause if there is
a rational relationship between the disparity of treatment
and some legitimate governmental purpose." Heller v. Doe,
509 U. S. 312, 320 (1993) (citing Nordlinger v. Hahn, 505
U. S. 1 (1992); New Orleans v. Dukes, 427 U. S. 297, 303 (1976)
(per curiam)). Moreover, the State need not articulate its
reasoning at the moment a particular decision is made.
Rather, the burden is upon the challenging party to negative
"'any reasonably conceivable state of facts that could provide
a rational basis for the classification."' Heller,supra, at 320
(quoting FCC v. Beach Communications,Inc., 508 U. S. 307,
313 (1993)).
JUSTICE BREYER suggests that Cleburne stands for the
broad proposition that state decisionmaking reflecting "negative attitudes" or "fear" necessarily runs afoul of the Fourteenth Amendment. See post, at 382 (dissenting opinion)
(quoting Cleburne, 473 U. S., at 448). Although such biases
may often accompany irrational (and therefore unconstitutional) discrimination, their presence alone does not a constitutional violation make. As we noted in Cleburne: "[Miere
negative attitudes, or fear, unsubstantiatedby factors which
are properly cognizable in a zoning proceeding, are not permissible bases for treating a home for the mentally retarded
differently ....

."

Id., at 448 (emphases added).

This lan-

guage, read in context, simply states the unremarkable and
widely acknowledged tenet of this Court's equal protection
jurisprudence that state action subject to rational-basis scrutiny does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment when it
"rationally furthers the purpose identified by the State."
Massachusetts Bd. of Retirement v. Murgia, 427 U. S. 307,
314 (1976) (per curiam).
Thus, the result of Cleburne is that States are not required
by the Fourteenth Amendment to make special accommodations for the disabled, so long as their actions toward such
individuals are rational. They could quite hardheadedly-

368

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Opinion of the Court

and perhaps hardheartedly-hold to job-qualification requirements which do not make allowance for the disabled.
If special accommodations for the disabled are to be required,
they have to come from positive law and not through the
5
Equal Protection Clause.
III
Once we have determined the metes and bounds of the
constitutional right in question, we examine whether Congress identified a history and pattern of unconstitutional employment discrimination by the States against the disabled.
Just as § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment applies only to
actions committed "under color of state law," Congress' § 5
authority is appropriately exercised only in response to
state transgressions. See Florida Prepaid, 527 U. S., at
640 ("It is this conduct then-unremedied patent infringement by the States-that must give rise to the Fourteenth
Amendment violation that Congress sought to redress in the
Patent Remedy Act"); Kimel, 528 U. S., at 89 ("Congress
never identified any pattern of age discrimination by the
States, much less any discrimination whatsoever that rose
to the level of constitutional violation"). The legislative record of the ADA, however, simply fails to show that Congress
did in fact identify a pattern of irrational state discrimination
in employment against the disabled.
Respondents contend that the inquiry as to unconstitutional discrimination should extend not only to States
themselves, but to units of local governments, such as cities
and counties. All of these, they say, are "state actors" for
5

It is worth noting that by the time that Congress enacted the ADA in
1990, every State in the Union had enacted such measures. At least one
Member of Congress remarked that "this is probably one of the few times
where the States are so far out in front of the Federal Government, it's
not funny." Hearing on Discrimination Against Cancer Victims and the
Handicapped before the Subcommittee on Employment Opportunities of
the House Committee on Education and Labor, 100th Cong., 1st Sess., 5
(1987). A number of these provisions, however, did not go as far as the
ADA did in requiring accommodation.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

purposes of the Fourteenth Amendment. Brief for Respondents 8. This is quite true, but the Eleventh Amendment does not extend its immunity to units of local government. See Lincoln County v. Luning, 133 U. S. 529, 530
(1890). These entities are subject to private claims for damages under the ADA without Congress' ever having to rely
on § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment to render them so.
It would make no sense to consider constitutional violations
on their part, as well as by the States themselves, when only
the States are the beneficiaries of the Eleventh Amendment.
Congress made a general finding in the ADA that "historically, society has tended to isolate and segregate individuals
with disabilities, and, despite some improvements, such
forms of discrimination against individuals with disabilities
continue to be a serious and pervasive social problem." 42
U. S. C. § 12101(a)(2). The record assembled by Congress includes many instances to support such a finding. But the
great majority of these incidents do not deal with the activities of States.
Respondents in their brief cite half a dozen examples from
the record that did involve States. A department head at
the University of North Carolina refused to hire an applicant
for the position of health administrator because he was blind;
similarly, a student at a state university in South Dakota was
denied an opportunity to practice teach because the dean at
that time was convinced that blind people could not teach in
public schools. A microfilmer at the Kansas Department of
Transportation was fired because he had epilepsy; deaf workers at the University of Oklahoma were paid a lower salary
than those who could hear. The Indiana State Personnel Office informed a woman with a concealed disability that she
should not disclose it if she wished to obtain employment.6
6

The record does show that some States, adopting the tenets of the
eugenics movement of the early part of this century, required extreme
measures such as sterilization of persons suffering from hereditary mental
disease. These laws were upheld against constitutional attack 70 years
ago in Buck v. Bell, 274 U. S. 200 (1927). But there is no indication that

310

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Opinion of the Court

Several of these incidents undoubtedly evidence an unwillingness on the part of state officials to make the sort
of accommodations for the disabled required by the ADA.
Whether they were irrational under our decision in Cleburne
is more debatable, particularly when the incident is described out of context. But even if it were to be determined
that each incident upon fuller examination showed unconstitutional action on the part of the State, these incidents taken
together fall far short of even suggesting the pattern of unconstitutional discrimination on which §5 legislation must
be based. See Kimel, supra, at 89-91; City of Boerne, 521
U. S., at 530-531. Congress, in enacting the ADA, found
that "some 43,000,000 Americans have one or more physical
or mental disabilities." 42 U. S. C. § 12101(a)(1). In 1990,
the States alone employed more than 4.5 million people.
U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of Census, Statistical Abstract of the United States 338 (119th ed. 1999) (Table 534).
It is telling, we think, that given these large numbers,
Congress assembled only such minimal evidence of unconstitutional state discrimination in employment against the
disabled.
JUSTICE BREYER maintains that Congress applied Title I
of the ADA to the States in response to a host of incidents
representing unconstitutional state discrimination in employment against persons with disabilities. A close review
of the relevant materials, however, undercuts that conclusion. JUSTICE BREYER'S Appendix C consists not of legislative findings, but of unexamined, anecdotal accounts of
"adverse, disparate treatment by state officials." Post, at
379. Of course, as we have already explained, "adverse, disparate treatment" often does not amount to a constitutional
violation where rational-basis scrutiny applies. These accounts, moreover, were submitted not directly to Congress
but to the Task Force on the Rights and Empowerment of
any State had persisted in requiring such harsh measures as of 1990 when
the ADA was adopted.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

Americans with Disabilities, which made no findings on the
subject of state discrimination in employment.7 See the
Task Force's Report entitled From ADA to Empowerment
(Oct. 12, 1990). And, had Congress truly understood this
information as reflecting a pattern of unconstitutional behavior by the States, one would expect some mention of that
conclusion in the Act's legislative findings. There is none.
See 42 U. S. C. § 12101. Although JUSTICE BREYER would
infer from Congress' general conclusions regarding societal
discrimination against the disabled that the States had likewise participated in such action, post, at 378, the House
and Senate committee reports on the ADA flatly contradict
this assertion. After describing the evidence presented to
the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources and
its subcommittee (including the Task Force Report upon
which the dissent relies), the Committee's Report reached,
among others, the following conclusion: "Discrimination still
persists in such critical areas as employment in the private sector, public accommodations, public services, transportation, and telecommunications." S. Rep. No. 101-116,
p. 6 (1989) (emphasis added). The House Committee on Education and Labor, addressing the ADA's employment provisions, reached the same conclusion: "[A]fter extensive review
and analysis over a number of Congressional sessions, ...
there exists a compelling need to establish a clear and comprehensive Federal prohibition of discrimination on the basis
of disability in the areas of employment in the private
sector, public accommodations, public services, transporta7Only a small fraction of the anecdotes JUSTICE BREYER identifies in
his Appendix C relate to state discrimination against the disabled in employment. At most, somewhere around 50 of these allegations describe
conduct that could conceivably amount to constitutional violations by the
States, and most of them are so general and brief that no firm conclusion
can be drawn. The overwhelming majority of these accounts pertain to
alleged discrimination by the States in the provision of public services and
public accommodations, which areas are addressed in Titles II and III of
the ADA.

372

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT

Opinion of the Court

tion, and telecommunications." H. R. Rep. No. 101-485,
pt. 2, p. 28 (1990) (emphasis added). Thus, not only is the
inference JUSTICE BREYER draws unwarranted, but there
is also strong evidence that Congress' failure to mention
States in its legislative findings addressing discrimination
in employment reflects that body's judgment that no pattern
of unconstitutional state action had been documented.
Even were it possible to squeeze out of these examples
a pattern of unconstitutional discrimination by the States,
the rights and remedies created by the ADA against the
States would raise the same sort of concerns as to congruence and proportionality as were found in City of Boerne,
supra. For example, whereas it would be entirely rational
(and therefore constitutional) for a state employer to conserve scarce financial resources by hiring employees who
are able to use existing facilities, the ADA requires employers to "mak[e] existing facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities."
42 U. S. C. §§ 12112(5)(B), 12111(9). The ADA does except
employers from the "reasonable accommodatio[n]" requirement where the employer "can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation
of the business of such covered entity." § 12112(b)(5)(A).
However, even with this exception, the accommodation duty
far exceeds what is constitutionally required in that it makes
unlawful a range of alternative responses that would be reasonable but would fall short of imposing an "undue burden"
upon the employer. The Act also makes it the employer's
duty to prove that it would suffer such a burden, instead of
requiring (as the Constitution does) that the complaining
party negate reasonable bases for the employer's decision.
See ibid.
The ADA also forbids "utilizing standards, criteria, or
methods of administration" that disparately impact the disabled, without regard to whether such conduct has a rational
basis. § 12112(b)(3)(A). Although disparate impact may be

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

relevant evidence of racial discrimination, see Washington
v. Davis, 426 U. S. 229, 239 (1976), such evidence alone is
insufficient even where the Fourteenth Amendment subjects
state action to strict scrutiny. See, e. g., ibid. ("[O]ur cases
have not embraced the proposition that a law or other official
act, without regard to whether it reflects a racially discriminatory purpose, is unconstitutional solely because it has a
racially disproportionate impact").
The ADA's constitutional shortcomings are apparent when
the Act is compared to Congress' efforts in the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 to respond to a serious pattern of constitutional
violations. In South Carolinav. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301
(1966), we considered whether the Voting Rights Act was
"appropriate" legislation to enforce the Fifteenth Amendment's protection against racial discrimination in voting.
Concluding that it was a valid exercise of Congress' enforcement power under §2 of the Fifteenth Amendment,8 we
noted that "[b]efore enacting the measure, Congress explored with great care the problem of racial discrimination
in voting." Id., at 308.
In that Act, Congress documented a marked pattern of
unconstitutional action by the States. State officials, Congress found, routinely applied voting tests in order to exclude African-American citizens from registering to vote.
See id., at 312. Congress also determined that litigation
had proved ineffective and that there persisted an otherwise inexplicable 50-percentage-point gap in the registration
of white and African-American voters in some States. See
id., at 313. Congress' response was to promulgate in the
Voting Rights Act a detailed but limited remedial scheme
designed to guarantee meaningful enforcement of the Fifteenth Amendment in those areas of the Nation where abundant evidence of States' systematic denial of those rights
was identified.
8

Section 2 of the Fifteenth Amendment is virtually identical to § 5 of

the Fourteenth Amendment.

374

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
KENNEDY, J.,

concurring

The contrast between this kind of evidence, and the evidence that Congress considered in the present case, is stark.
Congressional enactment of the ADA represents its judgment that there should be a "comprehensive national mandate for the elimination of discrimination against individuals
with disabilities." 42 U. S. C. § 12101(b)(1). Congress is the
final authority as to desirable public policy, but in order to
authorize private individuals to recover money damages
against the States, there must be a pattern of discrimination
by the States which violates the Fourteenth Amendment,
and the remedy imposed by Congress must be congruent and
proportional to the targeted violation. Those requirements
are not met here, and to uphold the Act's application to
the States would allow Congress to rewrite the Fourteenth
Amendment law laid down by this Court in Cleburne.' Section 5 does not so broadly enlarge congressional authority.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore
Reversed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY, with whom JUSTICE O'CONNOR joins,

concurring.
Prejudice, we are beginning to understand, rises not from
malice or hostile animus alone. It may result as well from
insensitivity caused by simple want of careful, rational reflection or from some instinctive mechanism to guard against
people who appear to be different in some respects from
ourselves. Quite apart from any historical documentation,
9
Our holding here that Congress did not validly abrogate the States'
sovereign immunity from suit by private individuals for money damages
under Title I does not mean that persons with disabilities have no federal
recourse against discrimination. Title I of the ADA still prescribes
standards applicable to the States. Those standards can be enforced by
the United States in actions for money damages, as well as by private
individuals in actions for injunctive relief under Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
123 (1908). In addition, state laws protecting the rights of persons with
disabilities in employment and other aspects of life provide independent
avenues of redress. See n. 5, supra.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
KENNEDY,

J., concurring

knowledge of our own human instincts teaches that persons
who find it difficult to perform routine functions by reason
of some mental or physical impairment might at first seem
unsettling to us, unless we are guided by the better angels
of our nature. There can be little doubt, then, that persons
with mental or physical impairments are confronted with
prejudice which can stem from indifference or insecurity as
well as from malicious ill will.
One of the undoubted achievements of statutes designed
to assist those with impairments is that citizens have an
incentive, flowing from a legal duty, to develop a better
understanding, a more decent perspective, for accepting
persons with impairments or disabilities into the larger
society. The law works this way because the law can be a
teacher. So I do not doubt that the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 will be a milestone on the path to a more
decent, tolerant, progressive society.
It is a question of quite a different order, however, to say
that the States in their official capacities, the States as governmental entities, must be held in violation of the Constitution on the assumption that they embody the misconceived or malicious perceptions of some of their citizens.
It is a most serious charge to say a State has engaged in a
pattern or practice designed to deny its citizens the equal
protection of the laws, particularly where the accusation
is based not on hostility but instead on the failure to act
or the omission to remedy. States can, and do, stand apart
from the citizenry. States act as neutral entities, ready to
take instruction and to enact laws when their citizens so
demand. The failure of a State to revise policies now seen
as incorrect under a new understanding of proper policy does
not always constitute the purposeful and intentional action
required to make out a violation of the Equal Protection
Clause. See Washington v. Davis, 426 U. S. 229 (1976).
For the reasons explained by the Court, an equal protection violation has not been shown with respect to the
several States in this case. If the States had been trans-

376 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
BREYER, J., dissenting

gressing the Fourteenth Amendment by their mistreatment
or lack of concern for those with impairments, one would
have expected to find in decisions of the courts of the States
and also the courts of the United States extensive litigation
and discussion of the constitutional violations. This confirming judicial documentation does not exist. That there
is a new awareness, a new consciousness, a new commitment
to better treatment of those disadvantaged by mental or
physical impairments does not establish that an absence of
state statutory correctives was a constitutional violation.
It must be noted, moreover, that what is in question is not
whether the Congress, acting pursuant to a power granted to
it by the Constitution, can compel the States to act. What
is involved is only the question whether the States can be
subjected to liability in suits brought not by the Federal
Government (to which the States have consented, see Alden
v. Maine, 527 U. S. 706, 755 (1999)), but by private persons
seeking to collect moneys from the state treasury without
the consent of the State. The predicate for money damages
against an unconsenting State in suits brought by private
persons must be a federal statute enacted upon the documentation of patterns of constitutional violations committed
by the State in its official capacity. That predicate, for reasons discussed here and in the decision of the Court, has
not been established. With these observations, I join the
Court's opinion.
JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE STEVENS, JUSTICE
SOUTER, and JUSTICE GINSBURG join, dissenting.

Reviewing the congressional record as if it were an administrative agency record, the Court holds the statutory
provision before us, 42 U. S. C. § 12202, unconstitutional.
The Court concludes that Congress assembled insufficient
evidence of unconstitutional discrimination, ante, at 370,
that Congress improperly attempted to "rewrite" the law we
established in Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473
U. S. 432 (1985), ante, at 374, and that the law is not suffi-

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

ciently tailored to address unconstitutional discrimination,
ante, at 372-373.
Section 5, however, grants Congress the "power to enforce,
by appropriate legislation," the Fourteenth Amendment's
equal protection guarantee. U. S. Const., Amdt. 14, § 5.
As the Court recognizes, state discrimination in employment against persons with disabilities might "'run afoul of
the Equal Protection Clause"' where there is no "'rational
relationship between the disparity of treatment and some
legitimate governmental purpose."' Ante, at 367 (quoting
Heller v. Doe, 509 U. S. 312, 320 (1993)). See also Cleburne
v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., supra, at 440 (stating that
the Court will sustain a classification if it is "rationally related to a legitimate state interest"). In my view, Congress
reasonably could have concluded that the remedy before us
constitutes an "appropriate" way to enforce this basic equal
protection requirement. And that is all the Constitution
requires.
I
The Court says that its primary problem with this statutory provision is one of legislative evidence. It says that
"Congress assembled only ...

minimal evidence of unconsti-

tutional state discrimination in employment." Ante, at 370.
In fact, Congress compiled a vast legislative record documenting "'massive, society-wide discrimination"' against
persons with disabilities. S. Rep. No. 101-116, pp. 8-9
(1989) (quoting testimony of Justin Dart, chairperson of the
Task Force on the Rights and Empowerment of Americans
with Disabilities). In addition to the information presented
at 13 congressional hearings (see Appendix A, infra), and its
own prior experience gathered over 40 years during which
it contemplated and enacted considerable similar legislation
(see Appendix B, infra), Congress created a special task
force to assess the need for comprehensive legislation. That
task force held hearings in every State, attended by more
than 30,000 people, including thousands who had experienced discrimination first hand. See From ADA to Em-

378

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

powerment, Task Force on the Rights and Empowerment of
Americans with Disabilities 16 (Oct. 12, 1990) (hereinafter
Task Force Report). The task force hearings, Congress'
own hearings, and an analysis of "census data, national polls,
and other studies" led Congress to conclude that "people
with disabilities, as a group, occupy an inferior status in our
society, and are severely disadvantaged socially, vocationally,
economically, and educationally." 42 U. S. C. § 12101(a)(6).
As to employment, Congress found that "[t]wo-thirds of all
disabled Americans between the age of 16 and 64 [were] not
working at all," even though a large majority wanted to, and
were able to, work productively. S. Rep. No. 101-116, at 9.
And Congress found that this discrimination flowed in significant part from "stereotypic assumptions" as well as "purposeful unequal treatment." 42 U. S. C. § 12101(a)(7).
The powerful evidence of discriminatory treatment
throughout society in general, including discrimination by
private persons and local governments, implicates state
governments as well, for state agencies form part of that
same larger society. There is no particular reason to believe
that they are immune from the "stereotypic assumptions"
and pattern of "purposeful unequal treatment" that Congress found prevalent. The Court claims that it "make[s]
no sense" to take into consideration constitutional violations
committed by local governments. Ante, at 369. But the
substantive obligation that the Equal Protection Clause creates applies to state and local governmental entities alike.
E. g., Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469 (1989).
Local governments often work closely with, and under the
supervision of, state officials, and in general, state and local
government employers are similarly situated. Nor is determining whether an apparently "local" entity is entitled to
Eleventh Amendment immunity as simple as the majority
suggests-it often requires a "'detailed examination of the
relevant provisions of [state] law."' Regents of Univ. of Cal.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

v. Doe, 519 U. S. 425, 430, n. 6 (1997) (quoting Moor v. County
of Alameda, 411 U. S. 693, 719-721 (1973)).
In any event, there is no need to rest solely upon evidence
of discrimination by local governments or general societal
discrimination. There are roughly 300 examples of discrimination by state governments themselves in the legislative
record. See, e. g., Appendix C, infra. I fail to see how this
evidence "fall[s] far short of even suggesting the pattern of
unconstitutional discrimination on which § 5 legislation must
be based." Ante, at 370.
The congressionally appointed task force collected numerous specific examples, provided by persons with disabilities
themselves, of adverse, disparate treatment by state officials.
They reveal, not what the Court describes as "half a dozen"
instances of discrimination, ante, at 369, but hundreds of instances of adverse treatment at the hands of state officialsinstances in which a person with a disability found it impossible to obtain a state job, to retain state employment,
to use the public transportation that was readily available to
others in order to get to work, or to obtain a public education, which is often a prerequisite to obtaining employment.
State-imposed barriers also frequently made it difficult or
impossible for people to vote, to enter a public building, to
access important government services, such as calling for
emergency assistance, and to find a place to live due to a
pattern of irrational zoning decisions similar to the discrimination that we held unconstitutional in Cleburne, 473 U. S.,
at 448. See Appendix C, infra.
As the Court notes, those who presented instances of discrimination rarely provided additional, independent evidence
sufficient to prove in court that, in each instance, the discrimination they suffered lacked justification from a judicial
standpoint. Ante, at 370 (stating that instances of discrimination are "described out of context"). Perhaps this
explains the Court's view that there is "minimal evidence
of unconstitutional state discrimination." Ibid. But a leg-

380

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

islature is not a court of law. And Congress, unlike courts,
must, and does, routinely draw general conclusions-for example, of likely motive or of likely relationship to legitimate
need-from anecdotal and opinion-based evidence of this
kind, particularly when the evidence lacks strong refutation.
See Task Force Report 16, 20 (task force "met many times
with significant representatives of groups opposed to [the]
ADA," and as to the general public, although the task force
received "about 2,000 letters" in support of the ADA, there
was only "one letter in opposition"); S. Rep. No. 101-116,
at 10 (summarizing testimony that many reasonable accommodations cost "less than $50," and the expense of others,
such as hiring employees who can interpret for the deaf, is
"frequently exaggerated"). In reviewing § 5 legislation, we
have never required the sort of extensive investigation of
each piece of evidence that the Court appears to contemplate.
Compare ante, at 370-371, with Katzenbach v. Morgan, 384
U. S. 641, 652-656 (1966) (asking whether Congress' likely
conclusions were reasonable, not whether there was adequate evidentiary support in the record). Nor has the Court
traditionally required Congress to make findings as to state
discrimination, or to break down the record evidence, category by category. Compare ante, at 371-372 (noting statements in two congressional Reports that mentioned state
discrimination in public services and transportation but
not in employment), with Morgan, supra,at 654 (considering
what Congress "might" have concluded); 384 U. S., at 652
(holding that likely discrimination against Puerto Ricans in
areas other than voting supported statute abolishing literacy
test as qualification for voting).
Regardless, Congress expressly found substantial unjustified discrimination against persons with disabilities. 42
U. S. C. § 12101(9) (finding a pattern of "unnecessary discrimination and prejudice" that "costs the United States
billions of dollars in unnecessary expenses resulting from
dependency and nonproductivity" (emphasis added)). See
also 2 Legislative History of the Americans with Disabilities

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

Act (Leg. Hist.) (Committee Print compiled for the House
Committee on Education and Labor), Ser. No. 102-B, p. 1620
(1990) (testimony of Arlene B. Mayerson) (describing "unjustifiable and discriminatory loss of job opportunities");
id., at 1623 (citing study showing "'strong evidence that employers' fears of low performance among disabled workers
are unjustified'"). Moreover, it found that such discrimination typically reflects "stereotypic assumptions" or "purposeful unequal treatment." 42 U. S. C. § 12101(7). See also 2
Leg. Hist. 1622 (testimony of Arlene B. Mayerson) ("Outmoded stereotypes whether manifested in medical or other
job 'requirements' that are unrelated to the successful performance of the job, or in decisions based on the generalized
perceptions of supervisors and hiring personnel, have excluded many disabled people from jobs for which they are
qualified"). In making these findings, Congress followed
our decision in Cleburne, which established that not only discrimination against persons with disabilities that rests upon
"'a bare ... desire to harm a politically unpopular group,'"
473 U. S., at 447 (quoting Department of Agriculture v. Moreno, 413 U. S. 528, 534 (1973) (omission in Cleburne)), violates the Fourteenth Amendment, but also discrimination
that rests solely upon "negative attitude[s]," "fea[r]," 473
U. S., at 448, or "irrational prejudice," id., at 450. Adverse
treatment that rests upon such motives is unjustified discrimination in Cleburne's terms.
The evidence in the legislative record bears out Congress'
finding that the adverse treatment of persons with disabilities was often arbitrary or invidious in this sense, and thus
unjustified. For example, one study that was before Congress revealed that "most ... governmental agencies in [one
State] discriminated in hiring against job applicants for an
average period of five years after treatment for cancer,"
based in part on coworkers' misguided belief that "cancer is
contagious." 2 Leg. Hist. 1619-1620 (testimony of Arlene
B. Mayerson). A school inexplicably refused to exempt a
deaf teacher, who taught at a school for the deaf, from a

382

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
BREYER, J., dissenting

"listening skills" requirement. Government's Lodging 1503.
A State refused to hire a blind employee as director of an
agency for the blind-even though he was the most qualified
applicant. Id., at 974. Certain state agencies apparently
had general policies against hiring or promoting persons
with disabilities. Id., at 1159, 1577. A zoo turned away
children with Downs Syndrome "because [the zookeeper]
feared they would upset the chimpanzees." S. Rep. No. 101116, at 7. There were reports of numerous zoning decisions
based upon "negative attitudes" or "fear," Cleburne, supra,
at 448, such as a zoning board that denied a permit for an
obviously pretextual reason after hearing arguments that
a facility would house "'deviants"' who needed "'room to
roam,"' Government's Lodging 1068. A complete listing of
the hundreds of examples of discrimination by state and local
governments that were submitted to the task force is set
forth in Appendix C, infra. Congress could have reasonably
believed that these examples represented signs of a widespread problem of unconstitutional discrimination.
II
The Court's failure to find sufficient evidentiary support
may well rest upon its decision to hold Congress to a strict,
judicially created evidentiary standard, particularly in respect to lack of justification.

JUSTICE KENNEDY'S empirical

conclusion-which rejects that of Congress-rests heavily
upon his failure to find "extensive litigation and discussion of the constitutional violations," in "the courts of the
United States." Ante, at 376 (concurring opinion) (emphasis
added). And the Court itself points out that, when economic
or social legislation is challenged in court as irrational, hence
unconstitutional, the "burden is upon the challenging party
to negative any reasonably conceivable state of facts that
could provide a rational basis for the classification." Ante,
at 367 (internal quotation marks omitted). Or as Justice
Brandeis, writing for the Court, put the matter many years
ago, "'if any state of facts reasonably can be conceived that

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

would sustain'" challenged legislation, then "'there is a presumption of the existence of that state of facts, and one who
assails the classification must carry the burden of showing . . . that the action is arbitrary."' Pacific States Box
& Basket Co. v. White, 296 U. S. 176, 185 (1935) (quoting
Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 209
(1934)). Imposing this special "burden" upon Congress, the
Court fails to find in the legislative record sufficient indication that Congress has "negative[d]" the presumption that
state action is rationally related to a legitimate objective.
Ante, at 367.
The problem with the Court's approach is that neither
the "burden of proof" that favors States nor any other rule
of restraint applicable to judges applies to Congress when
it exercises its § 5 power. "Limitations stemming from the
nature of the judicial process . . . have no application to
Congress." Oregon v. Mitchell, 400 U. S. 112, 248 (1970)
(Brennan, White, and Marshall, JJ., concurring in part and
dissenting in part). Rational-basis review-with its presumptions favoring constitutionality-is "a paradigm of judicial restraint." FCC v. Beach Communications, Inc., 508
U. S. 307, 314 (1993) (emphasis added). And the Congress
of the United States is not a lower court.
Indeed, the Court in Cleburne drew this very institutional
distinction. We emphasized that "courts have been very reluctant, as they should be in our federal system and with our
respect for the separation of powers, to closely scrutinize
legislative choices." 473 U. S., at 441. Our invocation of
judicial deference and respect for Congress was based on the
fact that "[§ ]5 of the [Fourteenth] Amendment empowers
Congress to enforce [the equal protection] mandate." Id.,
at 439 (emphasis added). Indeed, we made clear that the
absence of a contrary congressional finding was critical to
our decision to apply mere rational-basis review to disability
discrimination claims-a "congressional direction" to apply
a more stringent standard would have been "controlling."
Ibid. See also Washington v. Davis, 426 U.S. 229, 248

384 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

(1976) (refusing to invalidate a law based on the Equal Protection Clause because a disparate-impact standard "should
await legislative prescription"). Cf. Mitchell, supra, at 284
(Stewart, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) ("Congress may paint with a much broader brush than may this
Court, which must confine itself to the judicial function of
deciding individual cases and controversies upon individual
records"). In short, the Court's claim that "to uphold the
Act's application to the States would allow Congress to rewrite the Fourteenth Amendment law laid down by this
Court in Cleburne," ante, at 374, is repudiated by Cleburne
itself.
There is simply no reason to require Congress, seeking to
determine facts relevant to the exercise of its § 5 authority,
to adopt rules or presumptions that reflect a court's institutional limitations. Unlike courts, Congress can readily
gather facts from across the Nation, assess the magnitude
of a problem, and more easily find an appropriate remedy.
Cf. Cleburne, supra, at 442-443 (addressing the problems
of the "large and diversified group" of persons with disabilities "is a difficult and often a technical matter, very much a
task for legislators guided by qualified professionals and not
by the perhaps ill-informed opinions of the judiciary"). Unlike courts, Congress directly reflects public attitudes and
beliefs, enabling Congress better to understand where, and
to what extent, refusals to accommodate a disability amount
to behavior that is callous or unreasonable to the point of
lacking constitutional justification. Unlike judges, Members
of Congress can directly obtain information from constituents who have firsthand experience with discrimination and
related issues.
Moreover, unlike judges, Members of Congress are elected.
When the Court has applied the majority's burden of proof
rule, it has explained that we, i. e., the courts, do not "'sit
as a superlegislature to judge the wisdom or desirability of
legislative policy determinations."' Heller, 509 U. S., at 319

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

(quoting New Orleans v. Dukes, 427 U. S. 297, 303 (1976)
(per curiam)). To apply a rule designed to restrict courts
as if it restricted Congress' legislative power is to stand
the underlying principle-a principle of judicial restrainton its head. But without the use of this burden of proof
rule or some other unusually stringent standard of review,
it is difficult to see how the Court can find the legislative
record here inadequate. Read with a reasonably favorable eye, the record indicates that state governments subjected those with disabilities to seriously adverse, disparate
treatment. And Congress could have found, in a significant
number of instances, that this treatment violated the substantive principles of justification-shorn of their judicialrestraint-related presumptions-that this Court recognized
in Cleburne.
III

The Court argues in the alternative that the statute's
damages remedy is not "congruent" with and "proportional"
to the equal protection problem that Congress found. Ante,
at 374 (citing City of Boerne v. Flores, 521 U. S. 507, 520
(1997)). The Court suggests that the Act's "reasonable accommodation" requirement, 42 U. S. C. § 12112(b)(5)(A), and
disparate-impact standard, § 12112(b)(3)(A), "far excee[d]
what is constitutionally required." Ante, at 372. But we
have upheld disparate-impact standards in contexts where
they were not "constitutionally required." Compare Griggs
v. Duke Power Co., 401 U. S. 424, 432 (1971), with Washington, supra, at 239, and City of Rome v. United States, 446
U. S. 156, 172-173 (1980), with Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S.
55, 62 (1980) (plurality opinion).
And what is wrong with a remedy that, in response to
unreasonable employer behavior, requires an employer to
make accommodations that are reasonable? Of course, what
is "reasonable" in the statutory sense and what is "unreasonable" in the constitutional sense might differ. In other
words, the requirement may exceed what is necessary to

386

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

avoid a constitutional violation. But it is just that powerthe power to require more than the minimum-that § 5
grants to Congress, as this Court has repeatedly confirmed.
As long ago as 1880, the Court wrote that § 5 "brought
within the domain of congressional power" whatever "tends
to enforce submission" to its "prohibitions" and "to secure to
all persons ... the equal protection of the laws." Ex parte
Virginia,100 U. S. 339, 346 (1880). More recently, the Court
added that § 5's "draftsmen sought to grant to Congress, by
a specific provision applicable to the Fourteenth Amendment, the same broad powers expressed' in the Necessary
and Proper Clause, Art. I, § 8, cl. 18." Morgan, 384 U. S.,
at 650 (citing McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421
(1819)).
In keeping with these principles, the Court has said that
"[i]t is not for us to review the congressional resolution of...
the various conflicting considerations-the risk or pervasiveness of the discrimination in governmental services . . . ,
the adequacy or availability of alternative remedies, and the
nature and significance of the state interests that would be
affected." 384 U. S., at 653. "It is enough that we be able
to perceive a basis upon which the Congress might resolve
the conflict as it did." Ibid. See also South Carolina v.
Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 324 (1966) (interpreting the similarly worded Enforcement Clause of the Fifteenth Amendment to permit Congress to use "any rational means to effectuate the constitutional prohibition"). Nothing in the words
"reasonable accommodation" suggests that the requirement
has no "tend[ency] to enforce" the Equal Protection Clause,
Ex parte Virginia,supra, at 346, that it is an irrational way
to achieve the objective, Katzenbach, supra, at 324, that it
would fall outside the scope of the Necessary and Proper
Clause, Morgan, supra, at 650, or that it somehow otherwise exceeds the bounds of the "appropriate," U. S. Const.,
Amdt. 14, § 5.
The Court's more recent cases have professed to follow the
longstanding principle of deference to Congress. See Kimel

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

v. FloridaBd. of Regents, 528 U. S. 62, 81 (2000) ("Congress'
§ 5 power is not confined to the enactment of legislation
that merely parrots the precise wording of the Fourteenth
Amendment." Rather, Congress can prohibit a "somewhat
broader swath of conduct, including that which is not itself
forbidden by the Amendment's text"); FloridaPrepaidPostsecondary Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank, 527
U. S. 627, 639 (1999) (" 'Congress must have wide latitude' ")
(quoting City of Boerne, supra, at 519-520); City of Boerne,
supra, at 528 (reaffirming Morgan); 521 U. S., at 536 (Congress' "conclusions are entitled to much deference"). And
even today, the Court purports to apply, not to depart from,
these standards. Ante, at 365. But the Court's analysis
and ultimate conclusion deprive its declarations of practical
significance. The Court 'sounds the word of promise to the
ear but breaks it to the hope.'
IV
The Court's harsh review of Congress' use of its § 5 power
is reminiscent of the similar (now-discredited) limitation that
it once imposed upon Congress' Commerce Clause power.
Compare Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238 (1936), with
United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 123 (1941) (rejecting
Carter Coal's rationale). I could understand the legal basis
for such review were we judging a statute that discriminated
against those of a particular race or gender, see United
States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515 (1996), or a statute that
threatened a basic constitutionally protected liberty such as
free speech, see Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union,
521 U. S. 844 (1997); see also Post & Siegel, Equal Protection
by Law: Federal Antidiscrimination Legislation After Morrison and Kimel, 110 Yale L. J. 441, 477 (2000) (stating that
the Court's recent review of § 5 legislation appears to approach strict scrutiny); 1 L. Tribe, American Constitutional
Law § 5-16, p. 959 (3d ed. 2000) (same). The legislation
before us, however, does not discriminate against anyone,
nor does it pose any threat to basic liberty. And it is diffi-

388

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

cult to understand why the Court, which applies "minimum
'rational-basis' review" to statutes that burden persons with
disabilities, ante, at 366, subjects to far stricter scrutiny a
statute that seeks to help those same individuals.
I recognize nonetheless that this statute imposes a burden
upon States in that it removes their Eleventh Amendment
protection from suit, thereby subjecting them to potential
monetary liability. Rules for interpreting § 5 that would
provide States with special protection, however, run counter
to the very object of the Fourteenth Amendment. By its
terms, that Amendment prohibits States from denying their
citizens equal protection of the laws. U. S. Const., Amdt. 14,
§ 1. Hence "principles of federalism that might otherwise
be an obstacle to congressional authority are necessarily
overridden by the power to enforce the Civil War Amendments 'by appropriate legislation.' Those Amendments
were specifically designed as an expansion of federal power
and an intrusion on state sovereignty." City of Rome, 446
U. S., at 179. See also Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427 U. S. 445,
456 (1976); Ex parte Virginia, supra, at 345. And, ironically, the greater the obstacle the Eleventh Amendment
poses to the creation by Congress of the kind of remedy at
issue here-the decentralized remedy of private damages actions-the more Congress, seeking to cure important national problems, such as the problem of disability discrimination before us, will have to rely on more uniform remedies,
such as federal standards and court injunctions, 42 U. S. C.
§ 12188(a)(2), which are sometimes draconian and typically
more intrusive. See College Savings Bank v. FloridaPrepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd., 527 U. S. 666, 704-705
(1999) (BREYER, J., dissenting). Cf. ante, at 374, n. 9. For
these reasons, I doubt that today's decision serves any constitutionally based federalism interest.
The Court, through its evidentiary demands, its nondeferential review, and its failure to distinguish between
judicial and legislative constitutional competencies, improperly invades a power that the Constitution assigns to Con-

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix A to opinion of BREYER, J.

gress. Morgan, 384 U. S., at 648, n. 7 (The "sponsors and
supporters of the [Fourteenth] Amendment were primarily
interested in augmenting the power of Congress"). Its decision saps § 5 of independent force, effectively "confin[ing] the
legislative power ... to the insignificant role of abrogating
only those state laws that the judicial branch [is] prepared
to adjudge unconstitutional." Id., at 648-649. Whether
the Commerce Clause does or does not enable Congress to
enact this provision, see, e. g., Seminole Tribe of Fla.v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44, 100-185 (1996) (SOUTER, J., joined by GINSBURG and BREYER, JJ., dissenting); College Savings Bank,
supra, at 699-700 (BREYER, J., dissenting), in my view, § 5
gives Congress the necessary authority.
For the reasons stated, I respectfully dissent.
APPENDIX A TO OPINION OF BREYER, J.
Congressional hearings on the Americans with Disabilities
Act
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1989: Hearings on H. R.
2273 before the House Committee on the Judiciary and the
Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights, 101st
Cong., 1st Sess. (1989).
Americans with Disabilities Act: Hearing on H. R. 2273
and S. 933 before the Subcommittee on Transportation and
Hazardous Materials of the House Committee on Energy
and Commerce, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. (1990).
Americans with Disabilities Act: Hearings on H. R. 2273
before the Subcommittee on Surface Transportation of the
House Committee on Public Works and Transportation, 101st
Cong., 1st Sess. (1990).
Americans with Disabilities: Telecommunications Relay
Services, Hearing on Title V of H. R. 2273 before the
Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance of the
House Committee on Energy and Commerce, 101st Cong.,
1st Sess. (1990).
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1989: Hearing on H. R.
2273 before the Subcommittee on Select Education of the

390

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix B to opinion of

BREYER,

J.

House Committee on Education and Labor, 101st Cong., 1st
Sess. (1989).
Field Hearing on Americans with Disabilities Act: Hearing
before the Subcommittee on Select Education of the House
Committee on Education and Labor, 101st Cong., 1st Sess.
(1989).
Hearing on H. R. 2273, The Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1989: Joint Hearing before the Subcommittee on Select
Education and Employment Opportunities of the House
Committee on Education and Labor, 101st Cong., 1st Sess.
(July 18 & Sept. 13, 1989) (two hearings).
Oversight Hearing on H. R. 4498, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1988: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Select
Education of the House Committee on Education and Labor,
100th Cong., 2d Sess. (1989).
Americans with Disabilities Act: Hearing before the House
Committee on Small Business, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. (1990);
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1989: Hearings on S. 933
before the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources and the Subcommittee on the Handicapped, 101st
Cong., 1st Sess. (1989) (May 1989 Hearings).
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1988: Joint Hearing on
S. 2345 before the Subcommittee on the Handicapped, of the
Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources and the
Subcommittee on Select Education of the House Committee
on Education and Labor, 100th Cong., 2d Sess. (1989).
APPENDIX B TO OPINION OF BREYER, J.
Disability discrimination laws enacted by Congress prior to
the Americans with Disabilities Act
Act of June 10, 1948, ch. 434, 62 Stat. 351
Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, 42 U. S. C. § 4151 et seq.
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U. S. C. § 701 et seq.

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Appendix C to opinion of

BREYER,

J.

Education of the Handicapped Act, Pub. L. 91-230, Title VI,
84 Stat. 175 (reenacted in 1990 as the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U. S. C. § 1400 et seq.)
Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act,
42 U. S. C. § 6000 et seq.
Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and Handicapped Act, 42
U. S. C. § 1973ee et seq.
Air Carrier Access Act of 1986, 49 U. S. C. §41705
Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of
1986, 42 U. S. C. § 10801 et seq.
Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, 42 U. S. C. §3604.
APPENDIX C TO OPINION OF BREYER, J.
Submissions made by individuals to the Task Force on
Rights and Empowerment of Americans with Disabilities.
See the Government's Lodging (available in Clerk of Court's
case file).
ALABAMA
Page No.

00002
00003
00004
00005
00006
00007
00008
00009

discrimination against the mentally ill in city zoning
process
inaccessible exercise equipment at University of
Alabama
school failed to train teachers how to work with
students with learning disabilities
courts failed to provide interpretive services for
deaf people
lack of accessible police and court services for deaf
people
inaccessible public transportation
child denied public education because of cerebral
palsy
inaccessible public transportation, which prevented
persons with disabilities from getting to work

392

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00010

inaccessible public buildings and services; inacces-

sible transportation
00011 inaccessible public schools; inaccessible public transportation
00013 inaccessible public schools; inaccessible public transportation
00014 failure to enforce building codes requiring access for
persons with disabilities
00015 inaccessible courthouse
00017 lack of instructions for use of voting machine by
blind people; inaccessible restrooms in newly renovated State House
00021 inaccessible public transportation
00023 inaccessible public transportation
00024 failure to enforce state and local laws protecting persons with disabilities
00025 schools failed to provide an adequate education for
children with disabilities
00026 inaccessible public transportation
00027 man denied vocational rehabilitation services based on
his cerebral palsy; inaccessible public transportation
00031 vocational rehabilitation agency failed to provide
services for schizophrenics; zoning discrimination
against group homes
00032 school failed to provide an adequate education
00033 school failed to provide an adequate education
ALASKA
Page No.

school placed child with cerebral palsy in special education classes
00041 inaccessible restrooms in state legislature information office
00042 inaccessible areas at new Alaska Performing Arts
Center
00038

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00044 inaccessible public transportation, which prevented
persons with disabilities from getting to work
00046 lack of curb cuts in sidewalks near apartment building for persons with disabilities
00048 child erroneously placed in special education classes
00049 inaccessible new performing arts center
00050 Alaska Psychiatric Institute failed to provide interpretive services for deaf patients
00052 state and local agencies disregarded laws requiring
accessibility
00055 jail failed to provide person with disability medical
treatment
00056 inaccessible government buildings in Seward
00057 inaccessible public transportation
00058 city failed to train employees how to communicate
with people with hearing impairments
00059 segregated seating and inaccessibility at new performing arts center
00061 inaccessibility of State Ferry Columbia and Alaska
Railroad; denial of job interview because person was
in a wheelchair
00062 inaccessible new performing arts center
00063 person using a respirator denied access to Alaska
State Division of Medical Assistance
00065 inaccessible city hall
00067 school district retaliated against teacher for asking
to be assigned to an accessible classroom
00069 inaccessible public transportation
00070 lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public transportation
00071 state agencies failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf people
00072 department of motor vehicles failed to provide interpretive services
00073 inaccessibility of Seward City Hall and other state
and local buildings

394 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

state university failed to assist in covering expense
of interpretive services for deaf graduate student
00076 inaccessible public buildings
00077 inaccessible public school
ARIZONA
00075

Page No.

survey showing inaccessibility problems in city of
Phoenix's public services
00110 inaccessible public transportation
00112 inaccessible restrooms at state recreation areas
00116 department of motor vehicles failed to provide visual
signs or other assistance for people with hearing
impairments
00117 person with disability denied police officer job
00119 Arizona Department of Economic Security took 3
to 4 years to fix unsafe van lift
00121 county paratransit refused to provide transportation
to college
00124 department of motor vehicles placed restrictions on
driver's license because of deafness
00125 teacher with hearing impairment denied numerous
jobs
00127 department of motor vehicles failed to assist deaf
people
00129 inaccessible entrance, restroom, water fountain, and
office at building leased by State
00130 woman injured trying to use inaccessible restroom at
roadside rest stop; lack of curb cuts
00131 inaccessible social service agencies
ARKANSAS
00090

Page No.

00136

public school failed to enforce accommodations for
student

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Appendix C to opinion of

BREYER,

J.

00138 public school teacher refused to allow student with
disability to use authorized calculator
state university failed to inform student with hearing
impairment about activities and rules
00140 lack of curb cuts
00141 inaccessible public transportation
00143 inaccessible office area at public housing for persons
with disabilities
00144 inaccessible public transportation
00145 inaccessible state office of human services; state
agencies failed to hire persons with disabilities
00146 failure to enforce handicapped parking law
00147 school erroneously placed child with mobility impairment in special education classes
00149 public schools failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf people
00150 inaccessible public transportation
00153 person with disability forced to resign employment
because of architectural barriers
00154 public school held meetings and conferences at inaccessible locations
00155 physical barriers prevented citizens from voting
00156 rehabilitation services failed to assist people with all
kinds of disabilities
00159 inaccessible city and county buildings
00161 human services office relocated to inaccessible
building
00163 lack of curb cuts
CALIFORNIA
00139

Page No.

00166
00168

inaccessible public recreation sites
California Relay System failed to provide telephone
access to other States for deaf people

396

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00180 public transit failed to provide visual signs for deaf
people
00181 inaccessible public transportation
00202 California Children's Services refused to help with
cost of caring for child with head injury at home
00206 inaccessible county buildings
00208 deaf people denied access to state agencies that
lacked TDD's
00210 deaf people denied access to state agencies that
lacked TDD's
00211 public transit failed to provide visual signs for deaf
people
00212 public transit failed to provide visual signs for deaf
people
00213 limited out-of-state telephone relay services
00214 inaccessible public transportation limited access to
community college
00215 inaccessible public transportation
00218 deaf people denied access to state agencies that
lacked TDD's
00219 state mental health services failed to provide access
for deaf people
00220 government failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf people
00221 inaccessible public transportation; lack of curb cuts
00222 inaccessible public transportation
00223 inaccessible airport; inaccessible public transportation
00224 California Relay Service failed to enable deaf people
to make interstate calls
00225 California Relay Service failed to enable deaf people
to make interstate calls
00226 inaccessible public transportation; inaccessible restrooms in public buildings

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

University of California attempted to terminate employees with disabilities for taking medical leave
00231 state agencies failed to provide TDD's
00232 person denied opportunity to serve on jury because
county failed to provide interpretive services for
deaf people
00236 public school district failed to provide TTD for deaf
parents
00237 California Relay Service failed to enable deaf people
to make interstate calls
00240 lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public transportation
00241 inaccessible public transportation
00244 inaccessible public transportation
00245 California Civil Service Exam held at high school
with inaccessible restrooms
00246 inaccessible restrooms in county administration
building; lack of curb cuts
00247 inaccessible public transportation prevented persons
with disabilities from getting to work; State failed to
enforce laws requiring accessibility
00248 inaccessible public transportation
00249 California Relay Service failed to enable deaf people
to make interstate calls
00250 inaccessible public transportation
00252 inaccessible public transportation
00253 inaccessible public transportation
00254 inaccessible county courthouse; street signals too fast
for safe crossing by wheelchair
00255 public functions failed to provide interpretive services for deaf people
00258 deaf people denied access to state agencies that
lacked TDD's
00227

398

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00261

00262

California Basic Educational Skills Test discriminated against deaf adults who wanted to become
teachers of deaf students
department of motor vehicles required doctors to report patients with seizure disorders and revoked
such patients' licenses, but did not require reporting
of other conditions that could cause erratic driving

COLORADO
Page No.

00266
00267
00268
00269
00270
00271
00272
00273
00274

00275
00276
00277
00280
00281

person in wheelchair passed by five bus drivers, all
of whom claimed that lifts were broken
lack of curb cuts and ramps; inaccessible public

transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
persons with disabilities placed in segregated public
housing
inaccessible public transportation
lack of curb cuts forced person in wheelchair to use
street
inaccessible county courthouse
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation in small cities; public schools failed to assist students with disabilities
inaccessible public transportation; inaccessible public
facilities and recreation sites
political parties held caucuses at inaccessible private home
children with developmental disabilities required to
attend segregated schools
public school system refused to transfer student with
disabilities from special to regular school until she
brought suit

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

vocational rehabilitation agency refused to take referrals from psychiatric halfway house; person denied driver's license in Virginia because of mental
illness
CONNECTICUT

00283

Page No.

00285
00289

public school inaccessible to parent with disability
state university denied renewal of contract for graduate assistantship because of age and disability

DELAWARE
Page No.

00301
00302
00303
00308

00310
00314
00315
00317
00319
00323
00325

inaccessible public high school; inaccessible public
transportation
inaccessible public schools; inaccessible public
transportation
inaccessible voting machines; inadequate handicapped parking
man with physical disability spent 45 minutes crawling into polling place because it was inaccessible to
wheelchairs
inaccessible public transportation; public ceremony
held at inaccessible building
failure to enforce laws requiring handicapped parking spaces, which were usually occupied by police cars
high percentage of children with disabilities placed
in segregated schools
restrictive zoning limited reintegration of institutionalized people into community
inaccessible voting system
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation made person with
disability late for work; inaccessible library and other
public buildings

400

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT

Appendix C to opinion of

00329
00330

00331
00333

00335

00336

00337
00338
00343
00345
00347

BREYER,

J.

State refused to fund services for people with mental illness
state transit system provided special vouchers for
persons with physical disabilities, but not for mentally ill
state criminal justice system failed to provide psychiatric treatment
State kept child with schizophrenia in Delaware
State Hospital because it lacked services for people
who could be released
state labor department's restrictive policies prevented persons with disabilities from applying for
employment
failure to enforce laws requiring handicapped parking spaces, which were usually occupied by police
cars
public transportation refused to transport person
carrying oxygen
staff and patients at Delaware State Hospital sexually abused women patients
inaccessible public transportation
state police interrogated deaf citizens without providing interpretive services
vocational high school sought to transfer student
back to special segregated school

GEORGIA
Page No.

00362
00365

public colleges failed to provide assistance for students with learning disabilities
University of Georgia students with disabilities faced
architectural barriers, inaccessible public transportation, lack of housing, and failure to enforce handicapped parking laws

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00366
00367
00370

00371
00372
00374

inaccessible classrooms at University of Georgia
University of Georgia located its office of handicapped services in inaccessible second floor office
University of Georgia charged students with learning disabilities $600 per quarter for services that
other students with disabilities received at no cost
Learning Disability Adult Clinic at University of
Georgia charged unreasonable fees
inaccessible public transportation
traffic court failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf person

HAWAII
Page No.

inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
state university failed to enforce handicapped parking laws
00451 state employee in wheelchair forced to resign job
because frequently unable to get to office due to
broken elevator in state building; State Commission
on the Handicapped refused employee's request for
reasonable accommodation
00452 state university failed to provide blind student with
timely or adequate books on tape for coursework;
lack of signs or information for blind people using
public transit
00455 person with disability denied opportunity to testify
because department of labor held hearing in an inaccessible room
00456 state employment agency refused to provide interpretive services for deaf people
00457 public school put three-year-old deaf child in same
class as fourth graders
00444
00446
00448

402

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00458
00460
00461
00462

00463

00464
00467

00468
00469
00472
00473

00474
00475
00476
00477
00479
00480
00484
00485

quadriplegic person who had California driver's license denied license by Hawaii
state government office refused to interview persons
with emotional disorder or history of alcoholism
inaccessible state buildings
person with mobility impairment denied serious consideration for state job due to unreliability of accessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation prevented person
with disability from getting to work; inaccessible
public buildings
lack of curb cuts forced person in wheelchair to use
street
elevators in public buildings not marked for blind
people; bus drivers failed to announce stops for
blind people
inaccessible public transportation; bus drivers harassed mentally retarded passengers
inaccessible public transportation
state mental health system had restrictive institutional policies
state social service employees placed limits on opportunities for persons with disabilities based on stereotypical assumptions
lack of curb cuts and ramps
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public library
denial of certain licenses to persons with mental
disabilities
inaccessible restroom in state park; lack of curb cuts
state and local government meetings failed to provide interpretive services for deaf people
students with disabilities unable to participate in
school interscholastic sports

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00486

00487
00488
00490
00491
00492
00494
00495
00496

blind people prevented from traveling outside State
because quarantine laws permitted no exemption for
their guide dogs
state mental health services unavailable for deaf
people due to failure to train staff
inaccessible public transportation; inaccessible city
and county buildings
handi-van refused service to person paralyzed from
waist down
inaccessible public transportation
state agencies failed to monitor conditions in community residential facilities for persons with disabilities
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inadequate assistance for deaf person at court
appearance

IDAHO
Page No.

00502
00505
00506
00507
00508
00509
00510
00511
00514
00515
00516

inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
adult victims of abuse with developmental disabilities denied equal rights to testify in court
inaccessible public recreation activities
inaccessible public transportation
lack of curb cuts
inaccessible public transportation
city and county failed to provide assistance for deaf
people at public meetings
inaccessible public transportation
public school failed to provide adequate assistance
for students with disabilities
inaccessible public transportation

404

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00517

00518
00521
00522
00523
00524
00528
00531
00533
00537
00540
00541
00543

public defenders' offices and public meetings failed
to provide interpretive services for deaf people;
police harassed persons with disabilities who appeared to be intoxicated
vocational rehabilitation agency lacked TTY service
government agencies lacked staff to assist people
with head injuries
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation; inaccessible public buildings
limited access at new county courthouse, library, and
city hall
school district refused to hire licensed teacher because of speech impediment
public school failed to provide assistance for deaf
student
public school failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf student
Idaho lacked statewide telephone relay service for
deaf people
department of employment and department of health
and welfare lacked telephone access for deaf people
inaccessible restrooms at public high school; student
in wheelchair denied admission to regular classes

ILLINOIS
Page No.

00546

00548
00553

state system for providing ballots to people unable
to enter polling place and special bus service caused
long wait outside in cold weather
schools that mainstream deaf children refused to hire
deaf teacher
government failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf people at public hearing on school budget

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00554
00559

00569
00572

00573
00574
00575
00576
00578
00579
00581
00583
00585
00586
00587
00588
00589
00590
00591
00592
00594
00595
00596
00597
00600
00603

lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public transportation
department of rehabilitation limited services to persons with disabilities by threatening placement in
nursing home
police stations lacked TTY service
deaf people arrested and held in jail overnight without explanation because of failure to provide interpretive services
inaccessible polling place
inaccessible public schools prevented attendance at
PTA meetings
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
lack of curb cuts and ramps for wheelchairs
most state housing agencies lacked telecommunications devices or interpretive services for deaf people
state and local government agencies lacked telecommunications devices for deaf people
emergency medical, police, and fire services lacked
TDD's or personnel trained to receive TDD calls
inaccessible public pools; inaccessible restrooms in
municipal building
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible polling place
inaccessible polling place
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible library
inaccessible voting system
inaccessible polling place
lack of curb cuts
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation

406

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00605

lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public buildings; inaccessible public transportation; inaccessible polling
place

INDIANA
Page No.

00608
00609
00612
00613
00616
00618
00619
00621
00622
00629
00637
00644
00651
00653
00655

state vocational rehabilitation agency refused to help
person it classified as severely disabled
for five years, state vocational rehabilitation agency
failed to provide assistance
inadequate curb cuts
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
inadequate curb cuts
inaccessible public transportation; inaccessible public facilities
inaccessible public transportation
government agencies failed to provide interpretive
services and TTY/TDD's for deaf people
deaf counselors discouraged from applying for jobs
as rehabilitation counselors for deaf people
staff at state psychiatric facilities abused and physically dragged patients
person with disability dismissed as director of deaf
unit at Central State Hospital
public meetings held at inaccessible locations
inaccessible polling place
state counselors failed to provide rehabilitation assistance to person with head injury

IOWA
Page No.

00659
00664

person dismissed as city bus operator after seeking
treatment for mental illness
state commission failed to supply necessary equipment for deaf and blind employee

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Appendix C to opinion of

BREYER,

J.

00665 high school limited opportunities for mentally retarded student to be integrated
KANSAS
Page No.

00670 Kansas Commission of Civil Rights denied legally
blind person job as investigator because of limited ability to drive and refused to allow accommodation that would have permitted use of public
transportation
00673 police failed to provide interpretive services after
arresting deaf man
00676 Kansas Department of Transportation fired person
because she had epilepsy
00679 state investigator failed to examine employment discrimination claims
00685 inaccessible public transportation
00695 county failed to assist mentally ill with housing and
vocational opportunities
00696 damaged sidewalks and poor street lighting posed
risk to persons with disabilities
00704 inaccessible city-owned arena
KENTUCKY
Page No.

00706
00709
00712
00717
00720
00723
00724

bus driver bypassed person standing at stop with
guide dog
inaccessible public transportation
department of employment services failed to make
reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities
lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible public transportation
state employment service refused to place person in
wheelchair
inaccessible public buildings

408

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

public library, police department, and state university library lacked personnel trained to use TTY
devices
00731 state university failed to provide assistance to parttime teacher with a disability
00732 State prevented deaf teachers from teaching deaf students by requiring courses such as music education
00733 inaccessible public transportation
00736 inaccessible public transportation
00740 Kentucky School for the Deaf preferred hiring hearing teachers rather than deaf teachers
LOUISIANA
00729

Page No.

00743
00745
00748
00751
00752
00753
00758
00759
00773
00776

inaccessible housing for graduate students at Louisiana State University
inaccessible public transportation
police assumed person with coordination problems
was drunk
inaccessible public transportation
vocational rehabilitation program failed to provide
services for person with head injury
inaccessible public transportation prevented persons
with disabilities from getting to work
inaccessible voting machine
Louisiana Sheriffs Pension and Relief Fund denied
membership to person with disability
inaccessible public transportation; lack of curb cuts
inaccessible buildings at Louisiana State University

MAINE
Page No.

00778

inadequate sidewalk ramps; failure to enforce handicapped parking laws

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

409

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00780
00782

failure to enforce state regulations requiring accessibility in public buildings
town refused request for interpretive services for
deaf people at town meeting

MARYLAND
Page No.

00785
00787

public transportation unsafe for persons with disabilities
public libraries, state prison, and other state offices
lacked TDD's

00788

department of human relations failed to provide interpretive services for deaf people and did not answer TTY calls

00789

vocational rehabilitation counselors failed to help
deaf people find jobs
inaccessible public transportation

00797
00798

state hospital refused to provide interpretive services for deaf people

MASSACHUSETTS
Page No.

00808
00812
00813
00816
00829

Office for Children refused to license blind person as
day-care assistant
inaccessible courthouse
inaccessible restrooms in state building and state
armory
state college threatened to terminate employee because of blindness
Massachusetts Adoption Exchange refused to let
family with mother who had muscular dystrophy
adopt child

410

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00835 department of vocational rehabilitation hired ablebodied person instead of qualified person in
wheelchair
MICHIGAN
Page No.

00920 person denied admission to University of Michigan
Medical School because of speech impediment
00921
00922
00923

inaccessible state university campuses
65 percent of voting precincts in Detroit inaccessible
buses with lifts often failed to stop for people in
wheelchairs or their lifts did not work
00924 state employee threatened with discipline for serving
on and attending meetings of Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission advisory committee
00925 state university stadium lacked accessible restrooms,
water fountains, and telephones
00926 inaccessible public transportation
00928 school system failed to hire teachers who could communicate with deaf students
00932 state university denied interpretive services to
part-time deaf student
00933 public transportation refused to serve persons in
wheelchairs; public agency refused to provide interpretive services for deaf people
00939 state university had transportation system for students with disabilities but not for faculty and staff
00947 state university lacked adequate curb ramps
00950 State denied driver's license to person with epilepsy
00958 inaccessible public recreation facilities
00960 inaccessible government buildings
00961 state university denied sabbatical proposal of faculty
member with disability
00963 Michigan Rehabilitation Services placed people in
inappropriate positions

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

00964 Michigan Rehabilitation Services failed to accommodate mentally ill persons
00968 inaccessible public transportation
00969 man with disability forced to use girls' restroom at
state job
00970 person with disability terminated from county job
and banned from future county employment
MINNESOTA
Page No.

00974 person with disability and score of 100 was finalist
for job as director of agency for the blind, but ablebodied person with score of 70 was hired
00980 person with cerebral palsy humiliated at interview
for job with state department of education
MISSISSIPPI
Page No.

00853 inaccessible public transportation
00855 inaccessible beaches, pools, and parks
00984 inaccessible classrooms and library at Mississippi
School for the Deaf
00985 no state agency to provide or coordinate community
service programs for deaf adults
00986 inaccessible classrooms at Mississippi School for the
Deaf
00987 public programs failed to provide interpretive services for deaf people; government failed to post caution signs warning drivers of deaf children
00988 inaccessible polling places and voting booths
00989 inaccessible public buildings
00990 courts refused to pay for qualified interpretive services for deaf people
00992 inaccessible state university building
00993 teacher denied position at public elementary school
because of need for braces and a cane to walk

412

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of

00994
00996
00997
00998
00999
01000
01001

BREYER,

J.

lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public school rooms;
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible department of motor vehicles
inaccessible public transportation; inaccessible public facilities
inaccessible courthouses
state university instructor refused to teach blind
person
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible polling place; city employee required to
go outside to get to restroom

MISSOURI
Page No.

01003
01004
01006
01009

01010
01013
01015

lack of curb cuts
inaccessible restrooms in public buildings; lack of
curb cuts
public schools segregated children with disabilities;
inaccessible school buildings
inaccessible public transportation and public buildings such as post offices, libraries, schools, and polling places
state university tried to discourage blind person's
chosen field of study
inaccessible public transportation
courthouse failed to provide amplified sound system
in courtrooms

MONTANA
Page No.

inadequate curb cuts
inadequate curb cuts in downtown area
state agencies refused to make reasonable accommodations to paraplegics seeking employment
01024 inaccessible polling place

01017
01022
01023

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of

01026
01027

BREYER,

J.

person in wheelchair forced to vote in street
inaccessible polling place

NEBRASKA
Page No.

01029

01031
01034

government failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf people serving on juries, commissions, and
committees
local school district failed to provide interpretive
services for deaf child
inaccessible entrance at office of county assistance

NEVADA
Page No.

01038
01043
01044

01046
01050
01051
01053
01054

local government failed to provide assistance for people with head injuries
inaccessible government buildings and public facilities
person with disability denied access to public transportation because it took too long to get on and off
bus
community college refused to provide interpretive
services for deaf people
city ordinance prevented mentally ill from living in
residential areas
inaccessible public transportation; inadequate curb
cuts and ramps
failure to enforce handicapped parking laws
lack of sidewalk and crosswalk accommodations for
persons in wheelchairs

NEW HAMPSHIRE
Page No.

01057

state agency failed to assist persons with head injuries despite availability of state surplus funds

414

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of

01061

BREYER,

J.

vocational rehabilitation counselor tried to cut off
funds and assistance to person with disability

NEW JERSEY
Page No.

01067
01068
01069
01072

commission for the blind and visually impaired demoted visually impaired person
zoning commission denied permission to open home
for persons with head injuries
architectural barriers on Cumberland County College campus
inadequate curb cuts

NEW MEXICO
Page No.

01080

01083
01091

01092

state university denied entry into school of social
work to blind person but admitted partially sighted
person with lower grades
New Mexico lacked statewide TDD relay service
prisoners with developmental disabilities subjected
to longer terms and abused by other prisoners in
state correctional system
inaccessible public transportation

01095

University of New Mexico failed to provide assistance for blind student

01097
01098

city and county government offices lacked TDD's
University of New Mexico hospital failed to provide
interpretive services for deaf patients

01099

University of New Mexico failed to provide interpretive services for deaf students

01100

inaccessible buildings on University of New Mexico
campus

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

NEW YORK
Page No.

01109
01114
01119
01129

01130
01134

state agencies failed to hire persons with disabilities
custodian in public high school denied request of person with disability to use locked elevator
at state legislature, person in wheelchair had to wait
45 minutes to use freight elevator
public village meetings held in second floor meeting room with no elevator; many polling places
inaccessible
lack of curb cuts; failure to enforce handicapped parking laws
inaccessible state parks and public beaches

NORTH CAROLINA
Page No.

public elementary school initially denied admission
and then charged extra fee for child with Down's
Syndrome to attend afterschool day-care program
01155 blind people told not to participate in regular public
parks and recreation programs
01158 state agencies, other than services for the blind and
vocational rehabilitation, employed few persons
with disabilities
01161 police arrested and jailed deaf person without providing interpretive services
NORTH DAKOTA
01144

Page No.

01170
01172
01175

person with disability denied access to driver's license exam because held in inaccessible room
inaccessible polling places
lack of curb cuts; failure to enforce handicapped parking laws; inaccessible polling places; inaccessible city
government meetings

416 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of

01178
01183
01185

01186
01187
01196

BREYER, J.

failure to enforce handicapped parking laws
inaccessible polling places; inaccessible state and
local government buildings
government agencies failed to enforce policies regarding hiring persons with disabilities; inaccessible
polling places; inaccessible public buildings
state and local government failed to hire persons
with disabilities; inaccessible polling places
failure to enforce handicapped parking laws
person with head-injury disability denied consideration for position of election polls inspector

OHIO
Page No.

city failed to trim trees regularly, which posed a
hazard to blind people
01216 inaccessible state, county, and city buildings
01218 inaccessible social service agency offices; inaccessible
public transportation
01221 vocational rehabilitation agency denied assistance to
person with disability
01224 rehabilitation services agency failed to assist paranoid schizophrenic
01229 vocational rehabilitation agency discouraged person
with disability from being a nurse
01230 persons with disabilities denied jobs because of inaccessible public transportation
01231 blind person denied driver's license though legally
eligible
01234 inaccessible public transportation; lack of curb cuts
01235 public paratransit system often left passengers
stranded
01236 vocational rehabilitation agency steered person with
mental disability to menial job, despite his Ph.D.
degree
01215

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)

Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

01239
01241
01242

police failed to provide interpretive services for deaf
person who was arrested
Cleveland State University lacked wheelchair ramps
inaccessible public transportation

OKLAHOMA
Page No.

01251
01258

01265
01266
01269
01271
01275
01278
01280
01286

Tulsa Housing Authority failed to communicate with
and provide information to tenants with disabilities
state employment office lacked TDD or workers with
interpretive skills; state university paid deaf employees less than hearing employees; state agencies made
no effort to hire deaf applicants
police officer pointed gun at person with disability
who could not get out of car quickly
inaccessible public transportation
person with speech impediment denied numerous
state jobs
inaccessible restrooms at city parks
state government held meeting at hotel with inaccessible restrooms
person in wheelchair worked at polling place with
inaccessible restrooms
inaccessible polling places
qualified blind person who offered to provide own
driver denied job as state social worker

OREGON
Page No.

01370
01375

blind people unable to access printed material from
state government
school system barred child with cerebral palsy from
physical education class and gave her cleaning job
instead

418

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT

Appendix C to opinion of

01377

01378

BREYER,

J.

person with two college degrees and extensive professional experience turned down for appropriate
state government jobs and advised to seek entrylevel jobs because of his disability
commission for the handicapped lacked funds to enforce laws

PENNSYLVANIA
Page No.

01391
01397
01399
01407
01408
01409
01410
01413
01421
01423
01425
01427
01429
01430

01432
01434
01435
01436

public library had restrictive policy regarding issuance of library cards to residents of group homes
government failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf people at school budget hearing
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible polling places
inaccessible public transportation
inaccessible polling places
inaccessible polling place
inaccessible public transportation; lack of curb cuts
inaccessible public library
inaccessible automatic ticket dispensers on Pennsylvania Turnpike
bus drivers refused to transport person in wheelchair
inaccessible county offices
lack of curb cuts
GED programs offered at inaccessible public schools;
bus drivers unwilling or unable to use wheelchair
lifts
child unable to enroll in first grade because of inaccessible classroom
lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public transportation
lack of curb cuts in rural areas
inaccessible polling place

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of

01439
01441

BREYER,

J.

unsafe curb cuts
inaccessible state office building

SOUTH CAROLINA
Page No.

01454
01457

government failed to provide 911 emergency service
for deaf people
state and local agencies, library, and police and fire
departments lacked TDD's; government failed to provide interpretive services for deaf people at meetings

SOUTH DAKOTA
Page No.

01466
01467

01469
01470
01472
01475
01476

school district failed to provide adequate services to
child with disability
traffic light and fire hydrant placed where they posed
obstacle to blind pedestrians and those in wheelchairs who needed to use curb cuts
inaccessible polling places
inaccessible public transportation
State failed to hire persons with disabilities without
giving a reason
criminal court failed to provide interpretive services
for deaf people
state university denied blind student opportunity to
practice teach as required for teaching certificate

TEXAS
Page No.

01483
01503

poles obstructed sidewalks; lack of curb cuts; inaccessible public transportation
state teachers' exam required deaf teachers who
wanted to teach deaf children to pass section on
speech assessment and listening

420 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

01514
01520
01521

01522
01526
01527
01529
01531
01536
01540

01542
01543
01549

01551

medical examination required for renewal of driver's
license despite unblemished 20-year driving record
inadequate handicapped parking spaces
state vocational rehabilitation agency refused to assist college student who chose to major in political
science
employee of county human services agency denied
handicapped parking place
failure to enforce handicapped parking laws
inaccessible state university transportation system
denial of driver's licenses or accommodations to take
driver's test
inaccessible buildings at state university
state hospital sought to discharge mentally ill boy
with HIV
special transit system refused to transport man with
mental retardation though he could not use regular
bus
deaf man not permitted to take state cosmetology
exam with assistance from interpreter
blind man not permitted to take state chiropractic
exam because he could not read x-rays alone
deaf instructors unable to pass state teachers' exam
for teachers of deaf students that assessed speech
and language skills
inadequate handicapped parking and enforcement

UTAH
Page No.

01554
01556
01563

state rehabilitation service had never hired deaf
counselor or administrator
child denied admission to public school because firstgrade teacher refused to teach him
public school failed to implement state review panel
findings regarding accommodation for child with
disability

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of

BREYER,

J.

state office for persons with disabilities failed to hire
such persons; inaccessible public transportation
01577 state government denied persons with disabilities
upper level management jobs
01580 rehabilitation services agency discriminated against
employee with reading disability
01581 qualified blind teacher denied job and told that school
needed teacher who could also coach football, but
school hired sighted person who was not a coach
01584 inaccessible public transportation
01586 inaccessible government office
01587 public school teacher refused to give child with learning disability his grades and said he did not belong
in public school
01592 Utah denied mainstream education to child with
Down's Syndrome, though child had been mainstreamed in another State
01595 person with disability involuntarily hospitalized and
abused by state university hospital
01613 inaccessible public high school facilities
01576

VERMONT
Page No.

01634

zoning board denied use permit for community mental health center

VIRGINIA
Page No.

01642

01646
01647
01654

student with learning disability misclassified as mentally retarded and deemed ineligible to take drama
class at public school
inaccessible buildings at state school for blind and
deaf youth
failure to enforce handicapped parking laws
inaccessible restrooms in government buildings; failure to enforce handicapped parking laws

422

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of

01656
01660
01663
01664
01667
01668
01671
01674
01675
01676
01677
01678
01679
01680
01682
01683
01684
01686

BREYER,

J.

state programs for persons with disabilities failed to
communicate with deaf people
lack of state institutional care to rehabilitate people
with head injuries
inaccessible traffic court
inaccessible public transportation
lack of curb cuts
inaccessible public transportation prevented persons
with disabilities from voting
state and local government failed to provide interpretive services for deaf people at meetings
lack of curb cuts outside county courthouse
deaf people denied access to 911 emergency services
inaccessible courthouse
inaccessible public transportation
lack of curb cuts and ramp for access to courthouse
inaccessible county courthouse
inaccessible courthouse and library
inaccessible high school
lack of curb cuts at city's main intersection
person in wheelchair received ticket for obstructing
street traffic even though sidewalks not accessible
inaccessible transportation on state university
campus

WASHINGTON
Page No.

01690
01692
01694

deaf people required to pay for interpretive services
in court
state government's lack of TDD deterred deaf people
from applying for employment
government office lacked TDD and interpretive services for deaf people

Cite as: 531 U. S. 356 (2001)
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

01696
01706

01716
01717

state human rights commission lacked staff to pursue
case of discrimination against blind person
community college failed to provide interpretive
services for deaf students or to assist students with
disabilities in other ways
local sheriff's department discontinued TDD
inaccessible restroom at state ferry terminal

WEST VIRGINIA
Page No.

01742
01745
01746

inaccessible public transportation
sheriff denied person with disability use of elevator
in courthouse
law enforcement agencies lacked ability to communicate with deaf people

WISCONSIN
Page No.

01752
01755
01756
01757
01758
01759
01760
01761
01766

public school recreation program refused to provide
interpretive services for deaf child
state university hospital and sheriff's office failed to
provide TDD's or trained personnel
inaccessible polling places
person with disabilities denied admission to graduate
study at state university
inaccessible city hall
state offices lacked TDD's and failed to provide material in braille or on tape
department of motor vehicles revoked person with
diabetes' driver's license despite doctor's report
inaccessible public transportation; lack of curb cuts
or ramps
department of motor vehicles tried to revoke license
of person who used hand controls in car

424

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF UNIV. OF ALA. v. GARRETT
Appendix C to opinion of BREYER, J.

01767
01771

inaccessible polling places
blind and deaf people denied equal access to jury
service

WYOMING
Page No.

01773
01775
01777
01780
01781
01786

State lacked telephone relay system for deaf people
inaccessible state buildings
department of motor vehicles denied driver's license
to person with epilepsy
inaccessible buildings at state university
zoning board denied permit for group home for persons with disabilities
person in wheelchair denied marriage license because
courthouse was inaccessible

