406

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

determine national power in relation to other countries
and their subjects by applying the principles of jurisdiction recognized in international relations. Applying those
principles we cannot doubt that the Congress had the
power to enact the statute, as we have construed and
applied it to the property in question. The securities
should be included in the gross estate of the decedent;
the inclusion of the balance of the cash deposit will depend, under the statute, upon the finding to be made with
respect to the nature of the business of the concern with
which the deposit was made.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER is of opinion that the statute does
not extend to the transfer of the foreign or other securities effected by the death of decedent, Ernest Augustus
Brooks, a British subject resident of and dying in Cuba,
and that the conclusions of the Board of Tax Appeals and
Circuit Court of Appeals are right and should be affirmed.
BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. S. & L. BUILDING CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 475.

Argued February 10, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

Under § 212 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1924, where real estate is
sold on the instalment plan and the initial payments do not
exceed one-fourth of the purchase price, the vendor is permitted,
under regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner with the
approval of the Secretary, to return as income in any taxable year
that proportion of the instalment payments "actually received" in
that year which the total profit realized, or to be realized when the
payment is completed, bears to the total "contract price." Held:

BURNET v. S. & L. BLDG. CORP.
406

Argument for Respondent.

1. That a Treasury regulation providing that, as to property
sold subject to an existing mortgage payable in instalments which
the purchaser assumes, the amount of such mortgage," to the extent
that it does not exceed the basis to the vendor of the property
sold," shall be included as part of the purchase price in finding the
vendor's profit, but shall not be considered as part of the initial payments or of the total "contract price," is a valid application of the
statute. P. 412.
2. An excess of the assumed mortgage over the base or depreciated cost of the property to the vendor was properly treated as
if received in money by the vendor in the year of sale. P. 414.
60 F. (2d) 719, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 593, to review the reversal of a
ruling of the Board of Tax Appeals, 19 B. T. A. 788, sustaining deficiency income tax assessments.

Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist,
and Messrs. Sewall Key and John MacC. Hudson were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Leo H. Hoffman, with whom Mr. George W. Perper was on the brief, for respondent.
Section 212 (d) provides a new method for taxing gross
profits realized from instalment sales of property. It was
designed to allow a taxpayer to spread the profit over
the whole period during which payments were made, so
as to avoid loading all of it upon those years which followed the amortization of the original cost. The formula
determining the profit reportable on the instalment sales
is found in the statute itself. In this formula the term
"total contract price" is used. This term, if to be applied
at all to the sales of real property, includes the mortgages
assumed by the purchaser.
The regulations adopted by the Commissioner are not
consistent in the interpretation of the statute, for the
reason that the words of the statute are read in one sense
in one connection and differently in another. The Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 UB.

missioner includes all assumed mortgages in the "purchase price," but excludes them to the extent they exceed the "basis" from the "initial payments" and the
"total contract price." The effect of this is to treat as
"instalments actually received" in the year of sale that
portion of the mortgages assumed by the vendee which
exceeds the "base." Again, this excess of mortgages assumed over the base is excluded from the denominator of
the fraction to be applied to each "instalment actually
received" to determine the taxable profit included in
that instalment; while the minuend for determining the
total taxable profit includes all of the mortgages assumed.
To be consistent, the regulations should include the
payments made by the purchasers to the mortgagees on
the mortgages assumed as part of the "initial payments"
and as part of "instalment payments actually received,"
as those terms are used in § 212 (d). The application of
this method would result in there being no excess of the
mortgages assumed over the basis of property in calculating profits on the instalment plan.
The decision below is consistent with the general
scheme of the Revenue Acts and recognized accounting
principles, and gives effect to the purpose of the statute.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent, Building Corporation, sought redetermination of deficiency income taxes for 1924 and 1925.
The Board of Tax Appeals sustained the Commissioner's
final action of June 17, 1930; the court below reversed its
judgment. The point now in controversy has relation to
the distribution for taxation of income derived from sales
on the installment plan of two pieces of real estate on
82nd and 83rd Streets, New York City. VEach was
covered by one or more mortgages which the purchaser
assumed.

BURNET v. S. & L. BLDG. CORP.
406

Opinion of the Court.

The Revenue Act 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 23, 39, 41,
§ 230, lays a tax upon the net income of corporations.
Section 232 provides--" In the case of a corporation subject t o the tax imposed by section 230 the term 'net
income' means the gross income as defined in section 233
less the deductions allowed by sections 234 and 206, and
the net income shall be computed on the same basis as
is provided in subdivisions (b) and (d) of section 212 or
in section 226."
"Sec. 212 (b) The net income shall be computed . . .

in accordance with the method of accounting regularly
employed in keeping the books of such taxpayer; but
if the method employed does not clearly reflect the
income, the computation shall be made in accordance
with such method as in the opinion of the Commissioner
does clearly reflect the income ...
"(d) Under regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary, a person who
regularly sells or otherwise disposes of personal property
on the installment plan may return as income therefrom
in any taxable year that proportion of the installment
payments actually received in that year which the total
profit realized or to be realized when the payment is completed, bears to the total contract price. In the case
(1) of a casual sale or other casual disposition of persqnal
property for a price exceeding $1,000, or (2) of a sale or
other disposition of real property, if in either case the
initial payments do not exceed one-fourth of the purchase
price, the income may, under regulations prescribed by
the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary, be
returned on the basis and in the manner above prescribed
in this subdivision. As used in this subdivision the term
'initial payments' means the payments received in cash
or property other than evidences of indebtedness of the
purchaser during the taxable period in which the sale or
other disposition is made."

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

"Sec. 1208. The provisions of subdivision (d) of section 212 shall be retroactively applied in computing
income under the provisions of . . . the Revenue Act of
1924, . ...
Treasury Regulations 69, Article 44, promulgated
August 28, 1926--as amended in 1929:"Art. 44. Sale of real property involving deferred payments.-Under section 212 (d) deferred-payment sales of
real Droperty fall into two classes when considered with
respect to the terms of sale, as follows:
"(1) Sales of property on the installment plan, that is,
sales in which the payments received in cash or property
other than evidences of indebtedness of the purchaser during the taxable year in which the sale is made do not
exceed one-fourth of the purchase price.
"(2) Deferred-payment sales not on the installment
plan, that is, sales in which the payments received in
cash or property other than evidences of indebtedness of
the purchaser during the taxable year in which the sale is
made exceed one-fourth of the purchase price.
"Sales falling within class (1) and class (2) alike include (a) agreements of purchase and sale which contemplate that a conveyance is not to be made at the outset,
but only after all or a substantial portion of the purchase
*price has been paid, and (b) sales where there is an immediate transfer of title, the vendor being protected by a
mortgage or other lien as to deferred payments.
"In the sale of mortgaged property the amount of the
mortgage, whether the property is merely taken subject
to the mortgage or whether the mortgage is assumed by
the purchaser, shall be included as a part of the 'purchase price,' but the amount of the mortgage, to the extent it does not exceed the basis to the vendor of the
property sold, shall not be considered as a pArt of the
'initial payments' or of the 'total contract price,' as
those terms are used in section 212 (d), in articles 42 and

BURNET v. S. & L. BLDG. CORP.
406

Opinion of the Court.

45, and in this article. Commissions and other selling
expenses paid or incurred by the vendor are not to be
deducted or taken into account in determining the
amount of the 'initial payments,' the 'total contract
price,' or the' purchase price.'
"Art. 45. Sale of real property on installment plan.-In
transactions included in class (1) in article 44, the vendor
may return as income from such transactions in any taxable year that proportion of the installment payments
actually received in that year which the total profit
realized or to be realized when the property is paid for
bears to the total contract price."
In 1924 respondent sold the 82nd Street property, then
under mortgage which it had executed to secure a loan of
$1,100,000, payable in semi-annual installments of
$22,000 until 1933, when the balance would become due.
The purchaser assumed the mortgage; paid $300,000 in
cash; agreed to pay $700,000, and secured this by a purchase-money mortgage. Upon the latter mortgage $30,000
was paid in 1924 and $36,250 in 1925. In 1924 and 1925,
respectively, the purchaser paid upon the assumed mortgage $22,000 and $24,000.
The Commissioner estimated the depreciated cost of
the property at $1,541,323.48. Subtracting this from the
total sale price, $2,100,000, he ascertained realized profit$558,676.52.
He ruled that for 1924 the taxable sum was the same
proportion of the amount actually received during the
year ($330,000) as the entire profit ($558,676.52) was of
the total ($1,000,000) payable directly to the taxpayer-:
55% plus. He excluded the assumed mortgage from the
total used for determining the applicable percentage, and
held "total contract price" was what the purchaser
agreed to pay directly to the vendor-the whole amount
which the taxpayer expected to receive in money.
Payments received by respondent during 1925 were
likewise assessed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

In 1925 respondent sold the 83rd Street property, then
subject to two mortgages which it had executed to secure
loans of $1,100,000 and $500,000 respectively, payable in
installments-six and three months--until 1933 and 1934,
when the balance would become due. The purchaser assumed both mortgages; paid $300,000 in cash; and agreed
to pay $265,000, and secured this by a purchase-money
mortgage. On the latter obligation $2,000 was paid in
1925. During 1925 the purchaser paid on the assumed
second mortgage $22,500.
The Commissioner fixed the depreciated cost of the
property at $1,522,035. Subtracting this from the total
sale price, $2,165,000, he found the realized profit$642,967. He ruled that the difference ($77,967) between
the base, or depreciated cost ($1,522,033) and the total
of the assumed mortgages ($1,600,000) should be treated
as if received in money by the taxpayer during 1925; also,
that the sum subject to taxation in 1925 was the same
proportion of what the taxpayer received, actually and
constructively, during the year ($302,000 plus $77,967)
as the realized profit ($642,967) was of the total amount
($565,000) which the purchaser agreed to pay directly to
the taxpayer-100% plus.
He excluded the amount of the assumed 'mortgages
from the totals used to determine the applicable percentage, and payments on them were not regarded as received by the vendor. He also treated as if cash received
by the vendor in 1925, the difference between the depreciated cost and the total of the assumed mortgages.
"Total contract price" was held to be the total amount
payable directly to the vendor.
The respondent maintains that the assumed mortgages
should be regarded as part of the contract price, and payments upon them by the purchaser should be treated as
money received by the vendor. In this way, it is said,

BURNET v. S. & L. BLDG. CORP.
406

Opinion of the Court.

the tax would be spreaa over the entire life of the assumed mortgage. And it further insists that the excess
of the assumed mortgages over the depreciated value of
the 83rd Street property should not be regarded as if
money actually received by. the vendor during 1925.
Respondent's books were kept upon the accrual basis;
but all agree that in the circumstances the Revenue Act of
1926 permitted assessments upon the installment basis.
The Commissioner undertook to act according to his
prescribed regulations.
Prior to the Act of 1926, the Revenue Acts definitely
recognized only two bases for tax- returns-cash and
accrual. Where sales were upon the installment plan,
application of either of these bases led to hardship; payment of the total tax on ascertained profit was often required in a single year. By regulations the Commissioner
offered some alleviation; the vendor was allowed to distribute the profit through the years during which purchase-money was actually received. The general principle
underlying these regulations was to make division of partial payments and apply part as return of capital and part
to profit. In 1926 the Board of Tax Appeals disapproved
of the earlier regulations and pointed out that the statutes
permitted returns only upon the cash or accrual basis.
Thereupon, Congress enacted § 212 (d), above quoted.
The end in view was to permit the Commissioner to make
assessments according to the general principle theretofore
followed under regulations deemed appropriate to the
varying situations. The new plan was optional; taxpayers were allowed to elect whether to make returns
under the regulations upon the new basis or upon one of
the old bases.
The Conference Report to the House, on Revenue Act
of 1926, p. 32, H. R., Vol. I, 69th Cone, 1st Sess., 19251926, declares concerning § 212 (d): " This amendment

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

writes into the bill the basic principles of the installment
method authorized by prior regulations." See Report
Senate Committee on Finance, No. 52, 69th Copgress.
Installment sales of real estate encumbered by liens
give rise to many complications which Congress could
not readily foresee. Accordingly, it entrusted to the
Commissioner wide discretion in respect of details. And
considering the practical requirements of the taxing system, we think the regulations now challenged constitute a
fair attempt to effectuate the legislative intent. They
are within the broad discretion granted to the Commissioner and violate no definite provision of the statute.
The amounts which respondent realized as profits are
not in question. These were subject to taxation either
upon the accrual basis or, at the taxpayer's option, on the
installment basis. Generally, the Commissioner's regulations permitted the tax payments to be spread over the
period during which the taxpayer would receive funds,
and divided these partly into return of capital and partly
into profits actually collected. The method suggested by
the respondent would inevitably lead to many practical
difficulties; might postpone collection far beyond the
time when the vendor would receive any direct payments;
and probably would render impossible determination from
the taxpayer's books of what he should account for.
The Commissioner's treatment of the excess of the
mortgages on the 83rd Street property over the base cost
followed the general purpose to place reasonable limitation upon the spread of the tax. It was appropriate in the
unusual circumstances presented-certainly not prohibited. It was a practical way to accomplish the end.
Some possible departure from the method prescribed for
ordinary circumstances is not enough to destroy what he
deemed necessary to meet unusual conditions.
The excess of $77,967 under the sale agreement would
never actually come into the vendor's hands, but it rep-

HARVEY CO. v. MALLEY.
Syllabus.

406

resented part of the admitted profits and was subject to
taxation. No positive provision in the statute required
that it be spread over subsequent years, and we think
there was nothing illegal or oppressive in treating this as
if an actual payment. The taxpayer has been treated
more leniently than if required to report upon the accrual
basis. The Regulations were not contrary to any positive
provisions of the statute and, as said by the Board of
Tax Appeals, were "both equitably and legally sound."
Since 1926, the Board has consistently upheld the Commissioner's regulations as to profits on installment sales.
Frank J. Bosshardt, 4 B. T. A. 1262; Dalriada Realty Co.,
Inc., 5 B. T. A. 905; Pacheco Creek Orchard Co., 12
B. T. A. 1358; Katherine H. Watson, 20 B. T. A. 270;
Fifty-three West Seventy-second Street, Inc., 23 B. T. A.
164; Metropolitan Properties Corp., 24 B. T A. 220.
And the Revenue Acts of 1928 and 1932 substantially
reenacted the pertinent provision of the Act of 1926.
The Commissioner and Board of Tax Appeals have
practical knowledge of the intricate details incident to
tax problems, and their determination in circumstances
like those under consideration here should be given effect
when not clearly contrary to the will of Congress.
Reversed.
ARTHUR C. HARVEY CO. v. MALLEY ET AL.,
FORMER COLLECTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 537.

Argued February 16, 17, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. Judgment in a law case tried without a jury pursuant to Rev.
Stats. §§ 649 and 700 (28 U. S. C. §§ 773, 875), is not reviewable
where no special findings of fact were made, where no rulings in the
progress of the trial were excepted to at the time and-Iduly presented by bill of exceptions, and where the assignments of error

