62

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

to be removed. There would still remain the uncertainty
whether the franchise granted by the county was to the
grantees for their own use or for the use of a corporation
to be organized thereafter; whether the corporation was
to be one under the "Wagon Road" law, with an indeterminate duration, or under the " Bridge Companies" act,
with a duration of twenty years; and whether the public
policy of Oklahoma, disclosed by her statutes and decisions, and irrespective of decisions elsewhere, sets a limit
upon the toll right, or what is known as the secondary
franchise, coterminous with the primary franchise to exist
and engage in business in a corporate capacity. By the
statement of these questions we convey no hint as to the
answer. We do no more than emphasize the complexities
of law as well as of policy in which the respondents' title
is involved, and the unwisdom of superseding the official
acts and powers of the agents of the vicinage by writ out
of a federal court.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed, and the judgment of the District Court dismissing the complaint affirmed.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. MEMPHIS COTTON OIL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 308. Argued December 9, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
1. A claim for a tax refund which has been seasonably filed, but which
fails to conform to Treasury Regulations ihthat it omits to state
the grounds upon which the refund is demanded, may be amended
by specifying the grounds at any time before the claim in its original
form has been finally rejected, though it be after the time when a
wholly new claim would be barred by limitation. Pp. 69, 71, et seq.
So held under § 1318, Rev. Act of 1921, as amended March 4,
1923, which provides that no suit for recovery shall be maintained
in any court until a claim for refund has been duly filed with the
Commissioner "according to the provisions of law in that regard
and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury established in

U. S. v. MEMPHIS COTTON OIL CO.
Counsel for Parties.

62

pursuance thereof "; where the regulation required that "all the
facts relied upon in support of the claim should be clearly set
forth under oath."; and where the claim, originally exhibiting
only the taxpayer's statement of amounts of net income, tax, previous payments and overpayment, was amended, before its final
rejection on that ground, so that it set forth in detail the facts
showing overassessment as they had been revealed by the Bureau's
own investigation.
2. Rulings as to what amendments of pleadings may (or may not)
by relation avoid the bar of an intervening limitation, and as to
what, in that connection, is but a revised statement of the same
cauw. .;, action and what the substitution of a new one, furnish
helpful analogies, though subordinate to administrative considerations, in determining the effect of an amendment of a claim for
refund before the Commissioner. P. 67.
3. To give effect by relation to the amendment here in question harmonizes with the .Commissioner's practice of reauditing returns
when refunds are claimed (Lewis v. Reynolds, 284 U. S. 281), and
particularly with his action in entertaining the original claim (instead of rejecting it promptly for defect of form,) examining completely the taxpayer's business, and announcing that the overassessments so found would be rectified. P. 69.
4. The function of a statute limiting the time within which claims
may be presented is to give protection against stale demands; the
function of a regulation making provision as to the form of claims
is to facilitate research; the line dividing the two functions should
be kept a sharp one. P. 71.
5. Notice by the Deputy Commissioner to a taxpayer that his claim
for refund would be rejected and that the rejection would be officially announced in a schedule to be approved thereafter, held not
a final rejection. P. 72.
75 Ct. Cis. 195; 59 F. (2d) 276, affirmed.

CERTIORARI'
income taxes.

to review a recovery of overpayments of

Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Messrs. Whitney North Seymour,

Bradley B. Gilman, and Win. H. Riley, Jr., were on the
brief, for the United States.

'287 U. S. 585.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Mr. Walter E. Barton for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, the plaintiff in the court below, brought
suit against the United States in the Court of Claims to
recover overpayments of incomes taxes for the years 1922
and 1923. The government opposed recovery upon the
ground that the claims filed with the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue for the refund of the tax were too general and indefinite to comply with the provisions of the
statutes and regulations, and that amendment came too
late. The Court of Claims gave judgment in favor of
the taxpayer. 59 F. (2d) 276. A writ of certiorari
brings the case here.
The central question in the controversy can be stated
in a sentence: May a claim for a tax refund which has
been seasonably filed, but which fails to state the grounds
upon which the refund is demanded, be amended by
specifying the grounds at any time before the claim in
its original form has been finally rejected, though it be
after the time when a wholly new claim would be barred
by limitation?
The respondent made and filed its income tax returns
for 1922 and 1923 in accordance with the statute. It
paid the last instalment of the earlier tax on December 7,
1923, and the last instalment of the later one on December 6, 1924. Claims for refund of overpayments were
filed in June, 1927, within the time prescribed by law.
In the refund claim for 1922 there was a statement of
the amount of the tax paid ($25,626.25), a statement of
the correct amount due ($24,296.56), a statement that
there had been overpaid in error $1,329.69, and a request
for refund of that amount with irnterest as provided by
law, or such greater amount as might be legally refundable. Attached to the claim was the following summary

U. S. v. MEMPHIS COTTON OIL CO.
62

Opinion of the Court.

of the method of computation:- net income, $194,372.46;
121/2 per cent, $24,296.56; previously paid, $25,626.25;
overpaid, $1,329.69. There was no other specification
of supporting facts or reasons.
In the refund claim for 1923 the claimant followed the
same 1orm that was used for 1922, but with appropriate
changes of the figures. The overpayment was stated to
be $1,813.39, and there was a request for the return of
that amount or of any greater amount due.
Upn. receipt of these claims, the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, in order to pass upon the merits, made
an investigation and an audit of the claimant's books and
records for 1922 and 1923 through a duly appointed agent.
The agent reported to the Commissioner that there had
been overassessments for both years, the excess being fixed
at $1,660.70 for 1922 and $4,835.76 for 1923. Thereupon
a Deputy Commissioner notified the taxpayer in writing
under date of October 13, 1928, that its refund claims had
been considered, that the taxes had been readjusted in
accordance with the new audit, and that the overassessments for the two years would be made the subject of
certificates of overassessment, which would be transmitted
in due course through the office of the appropriate collector. Nothing further was said or done as to the matter
till January 26, 1929, when the same Deputy Commissioner who had signed the notice last mentioned, transmitted to the taxpayer another notice that the claims were
defective in form in that they failed to satisfy the requirements of the Treasury Regulations. After quoting the
pertinent provisions, he stated: "Since the information
on file with the claims does not meet the requirements"
of the regulations, " and the claims do not indicate [i. e.,
apart from the investigations of the Revenue Agent] that
the taxes have been illegally assessed, they will be rejected.
The rejection will officially appear in a schedule to be
approved by the Commissioner." Thereupon the claim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

ant, protesting that an amendment was unnecessary, filed
a new claim with the Commissioner on April 2, 1929, in
which the facts were set forth in detail. The Commissioner gave final notice of rejection on October 23, 1929,
placing his ruling on the ground that the claims as first
presented were defective and irregular. In this suit by
the taxpayer, the Court of Claims has given judgment for
the moneys overpaid.
Statutes make it necessary that claims for the refunding
or crediting of any internal revenue tax erroneously or
illegally assessed or collected shall be presented to the
Commissioner within a prescribed period of time and prohibit allowance of the claims if these conditions are not
satisfied. Revenue Act of 1926, § 284 (b). Statutes also
provide that no suit or proceeding shall be maintained in
any court for the recovery of such a tax "until a claim
for refund or credit has been duly filed with the Commissioner oi Internal Revenue according to the provisions of
law in that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary
of the Treasury established in pursuance thereof." Revenue Act of 1921, § 1318 as amended by Act of March 4,
1923, c. 276. During the period of these transactions,
there had been promulgated under the Revenue Act of
1921 and was continuously in force a treasury regulation
which provides as follows: "Claims by the taxpayer for
the refunding of taxes and penalties erroneously or illegally collected shall be made on Form 843. In this case
the burden of proof rests upon the claimant. All the
facts relied upon in support of the claim should be clearly
set forth under oath." Treasury Regulations 62, Article
1036."
The claim for refund filed with the Commissioner in
June, 1927, was not subject to rejection on the score of
'A later regulation, different in form, is applicable to claims filed
on or after May 1, 1929. Treasury Decision 4265, Cumulative
Bulletin VIII-1, p. 110.

U. S. v. MEMPHIS COTTON OIL CO.
62

Opinion of the Court.

the time of its submission. As to this the parties are
agreed. Indefinite and general it was, and hence, until
amended or supplemented, an inadequate compliance with
the Treasury requirement that the facts relied upon in
support of a claim are to be stated under oath. Beyond
doubt it might have been rejected as irregular while its
form was uncorrected. This is far from saying that there
was the presentation of a new claim and not the perfecting
of an old one when the gaps were filled thereafter.2
Both the government and the taxpayer invoke analogies suggested by pleadings in a lawsuit. The general
rule is said to be that an amendment of a pleading will
take effect by relation and thus relieve against the bar
of an intervening limitation if the identity of the cause
of action is still substantially the same, but that the limitation will prevail if under the guise of an amendment
there is the substitution of a new cause of action in place
of another wholly different. Baltimore & 0. S.W. R. Co.
v. Carroll, 280 U. S. 491; SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. Renn,
241 U. S. 290, 293; Harrissv. Tams, 258 N. Y. 229, 242;
179 N. E. 476. The analogy is helpful, yet it will confuse, instead of helping, if we do not insist at the beginning upon a definition of our terms or at least a recognition of their shifting meanings. A "cause of action"
'Official statistics indicate that "eighty-five 20/100 per cent of all
the overassessments are attributable to clerical or bookkeeping adjustments or to causes beyond the control of either the Treasury or the
t4xpayer, that is to adjustments after the payment of taxes based
upon causes which could not fairly be considered prior to the payment." Refunds and Credits of Internal Revenue Taxes, Report of
the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation, 1929, pursuant
to § 710 of the Revenue Act of 19.28, H. Doc. No. 43, Supplement to
Part II, p. 29. Cf. H. Doc. No. 478, 71st Cong., 2d Sess. (1930).
These statistics, covering adjustments of taxes under the Act of
1928, give support to the conclusion that in determining the application of a statute of limitations the word "claim " should be interpreted with reasonable liberality.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

may mean one thing for one purpose and something different for another.' It may mean one thing when the
question is whether it is good upon demurrer, and something different when there is a question of the amendment of a pleading or of the application of the principle
of res judicata. Cf. ChicagoiR. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, 617; Baltimore S. S. Co. v. Phillips,
274 U. S. 316, 321. At times and in certain contexts, it
is identified with the infringement of a right or the violation of a duty. 4 At other times and in other contexts,
it is a concept of the law of remedies, the identity of
the cause being then dependent on that of the form of
action or the writ.' Another aspect reveals it as something separate from writs and remedies, the group of
operative facts out of which a grievance has developed.6
This court has not committed itself to the view that the
phrase is susceptible of any single definition that will be
independent of the context or of the relation to be governed. None the less, it has fixed the limits of amendment with increasing liberality. A change of the legal
theory of the action, "a departure from law to law,"
has at times been offered as a test. Union Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Wyler, 158 U. S. 285, 295. Later decisions have made
it clear that this test is no longer accepted as one of
general validity. Thus, in Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570, plaintiff suing in her individual
capacity under a Kansas statute for her son's death
was allowed to amend to sue as administratrix under the
'The uncertainties of the phrase have been well developed by Dean

Clark with full citation of the decisions in his treatise on Code
Pleading, pp. 75-87, o01-508.

'Clark, Code Pleading, p. 81 and cases there cited. Pomeroy, Code
Remedies, 4th ed., § 347.

'Clark, supra, p. 502, and cases there cited.
'Clark, supra, pp. 83, 84, 505, and cases there cited.

U. S. v. MEMPHIS COTTON OIL CO.
62

Opinion of the Court.

Federal Employers' Liability Act after the statute of limitations would have barred another action. In New York
Central & H. R. R. Co. v. Kinney, 260 U. S. 340, there
was in substance the same ruling. In Friederichsen v.
Renard, 247 U. S. 207, a cause of action by a defrauded
buyer to set aside a contract was turned into a cause of
action to recover damages for deceit. "Of course an
argument can be made on the other side, but where a
defendant has had notice from the beginning that the
plaintiff sets up and is trying to enforce a claim against
it because of specified conduct, the reasons for the statute
of limitations do not exist, and we are of opinion that a
liberal rule should be applied." New York Central &
H. R. R. Co. v. Kinney, supra, p. 346.'
With this background of analogy, we reach the specific
problem that calls for answer here. The respondent filed
a claim for taxes overpaid, a claim for money had and
received to his use by the agents of the government. The
identity of the cause of action may be said in one aspect
to depend upon the mere fact of overpayment, the existence of a net balance owing to the taxpayer after the ascertainment of all items of debit and of credit. In another
aspect it may be said'to depend upon the identity of the
items illegally exacted, and hence upon the particular
grounds that determine illegality. Choice between these
meanings must avoid a doctrinaire adherence to abstract
definitions. It must keep in view the realities of administrative practice, for its effect will be to regulate the conduct of administrative officers. Definitions and analogies
borrowed from pleadings in a lawsuit will have their place
and recognition, but in due subordination, to differences of
end and aim. Viewing the problem thus, we must say
whether a statement by the taxpayer of supporting facts
'(ther cases are collected by Clark, supra, pp. 504, 505.

OCTOBER TERM 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

and reasons is to be assimilated to a bill of particulars
explanatory of a claim, or is something so essential that
there can be no claim without it.
Our decision in Lewis v. Reynolds, 284 U. S. 281, goes
far to point the answer. The court there ruled that upon a
claim for the refund of a tax because of the disallowance
of a particular deduction, the Commissioner might -sustain the result by the disallowance of another deduction,
and this though the time had gone by within which he
would have been at liberty, if a claim had not been filed,
to make a new assessment. The couit applied the analogy
of a common law action for money had and received.
"The ultimate question presented for decision upon a
claim for refund, is whether the taxpayer has overpaid
his tax. This involves a redetermination of the entire
tax liability." No matter though the claim for refund be
specific and limited, the Commissioner is at liberty to
audit the return afresh and to strike a new balance as the
facts may then appear. Commonly, though, it seems, not
always, a general audit will be necessary or will be at least
a wise precaution, whether the claim is broad or narrow,
if the government is to have the benefit of any compensating adjustments.' There is little doubt that this conception of duty and of prudence has had recognition and
emphasis in administrative practice.
The practice is portrayed in action in the pages of this
record. We are there informed, in a striking way of the
actual procedure where a notice, general in its terms, is
not rejected at the beginning for irregularity of form, but
is considered on the merits. At once upon the filing of the
claim for refund, there was an order for the complete
examination of the business of the taxpayer, to the end
*Compare Report of the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue
Taxation, 1928, pursuant to § 1203 of the Revenue-Act of 1926, vol.
III, pp. 25, 30.

U. S. v. MEMPHIS COTTON OIL CO.
62

Opinion of the Court.

that the net amount of its tax liability might be reported
to the Bureau. Every claim put forward in its amended
notice has been investigated, every fact alleged in its
behalf has been verified and found. The files of the
Bureau contain the report of an examiner informing his
superior that the tax has been overpaid, and the files of
the taxpayer contain an official notice that the overassessment is recognized and that justice will be done. Of a
sudden, at the end, the discoyery is made that the inquiry
is mere futility because the notice starting it in motion
has departed in form from the requirements of a rule.
In the light thus supplied by the practice of the Bureau
and the analogy of pleadings, the way is cleared for a conclusion. The line of division must be kept a sharp one
between the function of a statute requiring the presentation of a claim within a given period of time, and the function of a regulation making provision as to form. The
function of the statute, like that of limitations generally,
'is to give protection against stale demands. The function
of the regulation is to facilitate research. The Commissioner has the remedy in his own hands if the claim as
presented is so indefinite as to cause embarrassment to
him or to others in his Bureau. He may disallow the
claim promptly for a departure from the rule. If, however, he holds it without action until the form has been
corrected, and still more clearly if he hears it, and hears
it on the merits, what is before him is not a double claim,
but a claim single and indivisible, the new indissolubly
welded into the structure of the old.
The cases in this court are not at all at variance with
the conclusion now arrived at, though they leave the problem open. Tucker v. Alexander, 275 U. S. 228, holds that
it is within the power of the Commissioner to waive the
objection that- the supporting facts or reasons have not
been stated in the claim. United States v. Felt & Tarrant

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Co., 283 U. S. 269, holds that a defective claim for refund
will not supply a basis for a suit against the government
when there has been neither waiver by the Commissioner
nor amendment by the taxpayer. Bonwit Teller & Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 258, holds that a letter from the
taxpayer, accompanied by a form of waiver requested by
the Bureau, will be the equivalent of a notice of claim if
the Commissioner has so treated it.
The cases in the lower federal courts may not be wholly
harmonious as to the extent to which amendments are
allowable after the running of the statute, but there is
general agreement that the applicable analogy is to be
found in the rules governing the amendment of a pleading.
McKesson & Robbins, Inc. v. Edwards, 57 F. (2d) 147;
Art Metal Construction Co. v. United States, 47 F. (2d)
558; Lancaster Cotton Mills v. United States, 59 F. (2d)
270; Lehigh & Wilkes Barre Coal Co. v. United States,
38 F. (2d) 637. Cf. Peruna Co., 11 B. T. A. 1180, 1189;
Sevier v. Commissioner, 14 B. T. A. 709, 716.
One other question, less general in its significance, is
yet to be considered. An argument is made that at the
time of this amendment the claim had been finally rejected
and the proceeding thereby ended. If so, it was too late.
McKesson & Robbins v. Edwards, supra; Solomon v.
United States, 57 F. (2d) 150. When correction is thus
postponed, there is no longer anything to amend, any
more than in a lawsuit after the complaint has been
dismissed. We think the matter was still in fieri. True
the Deputy Commissioner had given notice to the taxpayer that the claims would be rejected, and that the
rejection would be officially announced in a schedule to
be approved thereafter. No reason is apparent why at any
time before such approval the Commissioner or his Deputy
was not at liberty to recall the first announcement, and
dispose of the case otherwise. Michel v. United States,

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
62

Syllabus.

37 F. (2d) 38, reversed, but on other grounds, 282 U. S.
656. We are not now considering what the practice ought
to be if there were need to open the proceeding for the
submission of other evidence extrinsic to the claims themselves. Neither in the record nor in the argument do we
find a suggestion of that need. Long before the amendment the Commissioner had ascertained the facts and had
even notified the taxpayer of the justice of its claims and
of the ruling of the Bureau that adjustments would be
made accordingly. The dismissal of the claims, when
finally announced, was for defects of form only. The
defects had been corrected, and the dismissal may not
stand.
We find it unnecessary to determine whether the conduct of the Commissioner in investigating the claims upon
their merits and reporting to the claimant the result of
his inquiry was a waiver of defects of form which would
call for the return of overpayments though no amendment
had been offered.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 234. Argued December 8, 9, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
1. A general claim for refund, though irregular in form under the
Treasury Regulations, may be amended after the period of limitation by specifying the grounds, if the amendment is made before

final rejection. United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., ante,
p. 62. P. 83.
2. A statement, without explanation, to the effect that overpayments
have been made in an aggregate amount, is broad enough to cover
any deviation from the normal statutory rule in making the computation or assessment. Id.

