U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
62

Syllabus.

37 F. (2d) 38, reversed, but on other grounds, 282 U. S.
656. We are not now considering what the practice ought
to be if there were need to open the proceeding for the
submission of other evidence extrinsic to the claims themselves. Neither in the record nor in the argument do we
find a suggestion of that need. Long before the amendment the Commissioner had ascertained the facts and had
even notified the taxpayer of the justice of its claims and
of the ruling of the Bureau that adjustments would be
made accordingly. The dismissal of the claims, when
finally announced, was for defects of form only. The
defects had been corrected, and the dismissal may not
stand.
We find it unnecessary to determine whether the conduct of the Commissioner in investigating the claims upon
their merits and reporting to the claimant the result of
his inquiry was a waiver of defects of form which would
call for the return of overpayments though no amendment
had been offered.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 234. Argued December 8, 9, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
1. A general claim for refund, though irregular in form under the
Treasury Regulations, may be amended after the period of limitation by specifying the grounds, if the amendment is made before

final rejection. United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., ante,
p. 62. P. 83.
2. A statement, without explanation, to the effect that overpayments
have been made in an aggregate amount, is broad enough to cover
any deviation from the normal statutory rule in making the computation or assessment. Id.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

3. The taxpayer claimed a refund of income and excess profits taxes,
assessed under § 326 of the Revenue Act 1918, upon the ground
that, owing to abnormal conditions affecting its capitaland income,
there could be no fair appraisal of its property in accordance with
that section, and that it should have the benefit of a special assessment under §§ 327 (d) and 328, which provide for computation of
the tax in such cases without reference to value of invested capital,
by the ratio which the average tax of representative corporations
engaged in a similar business bears to their average net income.
Held, that the claim could not be turned by amendment into one
for the revision of the assessment by increasing the value of real
estate included in invested capital; and that a claim on that ground,
coming after the time limited by statute for filing claims, was
barred. Pp. 81, 83.
4. A request for a special assessment in accordance with § 327 (d)
of the Revenue Act, 1918, calls for discretionary, administrative
action not ordinarily reviewable in court, and suggests no challenge
of the valuation, or need of a revaluation, of invested capital.
P. 84.
5. Such an application so differs in essence and in its relation to
administration from a claim based on undervaluation of the taxpayer's real estate capital in computing income and profits by the
normal method of the statute, that the two must be regarded as
different claims or "causes of action," the one not amendable by
the other, tested either by the analogies of pleading or by the necessities and realities of administrative practice. P. 84.
6. Application for the special assessment being an appeal to discretion, a condition may reasonably be imposed that the inquiry shall
be postponed until other and unrelated objections--in this case,
reassessment of invested capital-have been either determined or
abandoned. P. 88.
7. The taxpayer in this case having elected to pursue its application
for a special assessment after having been informed by the Commissioner that, by the Bureau's practice, the invested capital and
net income must first be definitely determined, either by acquiescence in figures already reported or through an appeal,--he/d equivalent to an agreement that the claim for a special assessment
should be deemed to be a distinct one from that for a revision of
the values; so that retraction, if ever possible, was too late when
the statute of limitations had interposed its bar. P. 87.
8. Whether this Court has jurisdiction on certiorari to review parts
of a judgment adverse to the respondent although the respondent

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
Argument for the United States.

73

has neither secured nor applied for a writ of certiorari, will not
be decided where, assuming the existence of the power, the case
does not impel its exercise. P. 88.
57 F. (2d) 676, reversed.
CERTIORARI' to review the reversal in part of a judg-

ment recovered by the present respondent in a suit against
the United States based on overpayments of income and
excess profits taxes.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and Messrs. Whitney Noeth Seymour, Sewall Key,
John G. Remey, Joseph H. Sheppard, Erwin N. Griswold, and Win. H. Riley, Jr., were on the briefs, for the
United States.
A suit can not be maintained for taxes illegally collected
unless a claim for them has been filed within the time
prescribed by law. Savings Institution v. Blair, 116 U. S.
200. See also, Jonesboro Grocer Co. v. United States, 66
Ct. Cls. 320, cert. den., 280 U. S. 562; FeatherRiver Lumber Co. v. United States, 66 Ct. Cls. 54; Grays Harbor
Motorship Corp. v. United States, 71 Ct. Cls. 167; Snead
v. Elmore, 59 F. (2d) 312;' Art Metal Const. Co. v. United
States, 47 F. (2d) 558, cert. den., 283 U. S. 863.
The relief granted by allowing a special assessment is
not similar to that which is sought in this suit. United
States v. Felt & Tarrant Co., 283 U. S. 269, 271.
The distinction between what may be amended and
what may not is no doubt one of degree. Solomon v.
United States, 57 F. (2d) 150.
Where a pleading is amended to allege a new cause of
action the new cause is subject to a defense of the statute
of limitations although the action was commenced before
the statute ran. Seaboard Air Line v. Renn, 241 U. S.
'287 U. S. 585.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

288 U.S.

290; Union PacificRy. v. Wyler, 158 U. S. 285; Baltimore
& Ohio S. W. R. Co. v. Carroll,280 U. S. 491.
Recognition of a right to sue based upon an amended
claim, filed after expiration of the statutory period, stating a new ground for refund, would involve a departure
from the rule that where the United States consents to
be sued a literal and meticulous compliance by the taxpayer with statutory requirements is imperative. See
United States v. Miclel, 282 U. S. 656; Maas & Waldstein Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 583; Rock Island,
A. & L. R. Co. v. United States, 254 U. S. 141; Maryland
Casualty Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 342.
If notice on July 16, 1925, that the original claim would
be rejected is equivalent to a rejection, recovery is barred
for another reason. A claim for refund can not be
amended after rejection but must be considered as a new
claim. Jonesboro Grocer Co. v. United States, supra;
Solomon v. United States, supra; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
United Stdtes, 72 Ct. Cls. 204, cert. den., 284 U. S. 628;
Wausau Sulphate Fibre Co. v. United States, 72 Ct. CIs.
189.
The statutory period within which claims may be filed
is measured, not by the period vithin which a claim timely
filed is considered by the Commissioner, but by the fiveyear period after the return was due, or the four-year
period after the tax was paid. The decision below would
dispense with the statute in all such cases.
Some cases have held that if facts and reasons are stated
in the claim the taxpayer need not mention a provision
of law applicable to his claim, nor is he precluded from
advancing in court a new reason or theory applicable to
his claim, nor from amending a defective claim by submitting additional evidence to the Commissioner relating
to the ground presented in the claim. See Dreyfuss v.
Lines, 24 F. (2d) 29; McKesson & Robbins v. Edwards,
57 F. (2d) 147; Swift & Co. v. United States, 67 Ct. Cls.

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
73

Argument for Respondent.

322; Paul Jones & Co. v. Lucas, 33 F. (2d) 907; Union
& N. H. Trust Co. v. Eaton, 20 F. (2d) 419; Wunderle
v. McCaughn, 38 F. (2d) 258. Those conditions are not
present here. No reference to the real estate item is
found in the 6riginal claim. The only claim upon which
a timely suit could have been brought was the-original
claim; but, as the ground there stated is not the ground
urged in the present suit, recovery is barred. United
States v. Felt & Tarrant, supra; Bemis Bro. Bag. Co. v.
United States, 60 F. (2d) 944; Red Wing Malting Co. v.
Willcuts, 15 F. (2d) 626' Snead v. Elmore, supra; J. P.
Stevens Engraving Co. v. United States, 53 F. (2d) 1;
H. Lissner Co. v. United States, 52 F. (2d) 1058; Solomon
v. United States, supra; J. H. Williams & Co. v. United
States, 46 F. (2d) 155; Taylor-Lockwood Co. v. United
States, 71 Ct. Cls. 360. The facts disclose no waiver by
the Commissioner which would bring the case within the
rule of Tucker v. Alexander, 275 U. S. 228.
Mr. Joseph F. Murray, with whom Messrs. William
P. Jeffery and Arthur Mattson were on the brief, for respondent.
The claim for refund, duly filed. March 25, 1924, is
suffioient to support the maintenance of this suit.
The controlling regulation provides merely that the
facts upon which the claim is based "should"-not "must"
or "shall"-be set forth under oath. But does it require
that such facts be set forth in the claim? Neither the
statute nor the regulation tells us definitely. When are
such facts to be submitted? How? Where? Certainly
there is no positive direction that the facts must be set
forth in the claim itself at the time it is filed. The very
words of the regulation itself show that the word "facts" is
not used synonymously with the word "claim." The regulation does not say that all the facts relied upon should
be set forth in the claim or that the claim shall contain all

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondent.

288 us.

the facts relied upon. The obvious answer is that the
facts could be submitted with or in the claim, or later, as
the exigencies of the particular case demanded. Any facts
not already in the possession of the Commissioner were
required to be furnished to him before the claim had been
disposed of finally by allowance or rejection. Union &
N. H. Trust Co. v. Eaton, 20 F. (2d) 419; Warner v.
Walsh, 24 F. (2d) 449, 450.
This also is the only practical view. Lancaster Cotton
Mills v. United States, 59 F. (2d) 270, 275. Frequently
the Commissioner will pass on a refund claim upon the
data set forth in the return itself or upon data which he
secures through his own independent examination of the
books of the taxpayer. He is not restricted to the data
or grounds advanced by the claimant. Bonwit Teller &
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 258; Lancaster Cotton
Mills v. United States, supra. Often claims for refund
are determined upon information conveyed to the Commissioner for the first time at the oral hearing, which
usually is granted if requested by the taxpayer. There
are many other practical reasons why, at least before
experience taught differently, the Commissioner thought
it would be unwise to frame a positive requirement that.
all facts and all theories of relief had to be set forth in
the claim, itself.
A seasonably filed claim was a "duly filed" claim
within the meaning of the statute and the regulation,
whether or not at the time it was filed it set forth all the
facts and theories upon which suit was brought later.
Union & N. H. Trust Co. v. Eaton, 20 F. (2d) 419; Tucker
v. Alexander, 15 F. (2d) 356; reversed, 275 U. S. 228;
Red Wing Malting Co. v. Willcuts, 15 F. (2d) 626; Warner v. Walsh, 24 F. (2d) 449, 450, s. c., 27 F. (2d) 952;
Wunderle v. McCaughn, 38 F. (2d) 258.
The brief filed with the Commissioner April 12, 1926,
was a permissible amendment of a "duly filed" claim for

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
73

Opinion of the Court.

refund sufficient to support the maintenance of this suit.
Tucker v. Alexander, 275 U. S. 228; Bonwit Teller & Co.
v. United States, 283 U. S. 258; Union Trust Co. v.
McCaughn, 24 F. (2d) 459, 461.
A recovery based on an amendment of a timely filed
claim for refund was allowed in the following cases,
among others, although in each instance the amendment
was filed after the time for filing claims had expired:
Lehigh & Wilkes Barre Coal Co. v. United States, 38 F.
(2d) 637; Zeller v. United States, 35 F. (2d) 870;
McKesson & Robbins v. Edwards, 57 F. (2d) 147; Lancaster Cotton Mills v. United States, 59 F. (2d) 270;
Memphis Cotton Oil Co. v. United States, 59 F. ,(2d) 276.
The basis of the decisions is two-fold, first, that the purposes of the statute had been complied with in that the
Commissioner by his acceptance and consideratiqn of the
claim was being sued on a ground of relief of which he
had been fully advised in time to make a refund; and,
secondly, even assuming that strict compliance with the
statute was necessary, there had been a permissible waiver
by the Commissioner of such strict compliance.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in refusing to
include in respondent's invested capital for 1918 and
1920 the actual value of the intangible property acquired
in 1916.
MR. JUSTICE

CmDozo delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent (the plaintiff in the court below) brought
suit against the United States in a District Court to
recover overpayments of income and excess~profits taxes
for the years 1918 and 1920. The overpayments had come
about, so it was claimed, from the undervaluation by the
Commissioner of the respondent's invested capital, with a
consequent exaggeration of the profits to be taxed. Two
items or classes of property were the subject of the con-

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

troversy. In each year there has been an omission to
include the full value of the real estate; indeed the parties
have stipulated that the value of the real estate was
greater by the sum of $46,371.08 than the sum allowed
in the assessment. In each year also there had been an
omission to include the value of intangible property, and
particularly good will. The District Court held that
there could be no relief in respect of either item for the
year 1918 because the claim for refund filed with the Commissioner did not comply with the statute and the Treasury Regulations. In respect of both items, real estate
and intangibles, relief was granted to the taxpayer to the
extent of overpayments for the year 1920. The result
was a judgment in favor of the respondent for $7,975.21.
Cross-appeals followed to the Court of Appeals for the
second circuit. Upon the taxpayer's appeal, the decision
was that the defective refund claim for 1918 had been
made good by amendment, and that the tax for that year,
as well as for 1920, had been overpaid as to the real estate.
Upon the government's appeal, the decision was that the
item of intangibles should have been excluded for both
years. 57 F. (2d) 676. A writ of certiorari, designed to
bring up the ruling as to the amendment of the claim for
1918, was granted by this court on the petition of the government. No petition for a writ was submitted by the
taxpayer.
On June 16,1919, respondent filed its income and excess
profits tax return for the year 1918, showing a total tax
of $535,144.20, which it paid. On December 28, 1920, it
paid for the year 1918 an additional tax of $119,191.19, as
the result of an additional assessment, receiving back,
however, $9,559.19 on the completion of the audit. Within
the time prescribed by law there was filed with the Commissioner, on March 14, 1924, a claim for refund. In this
claim, the respondent demanded the repayment of $200,000. It stated in substance as the ground for this demand

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
73

Opinion of- the Court.

that owing to abnormal conditions affecting its invested
capital and income, there could be no fair computation of
the tax by the appraisal of the cash value of its property
in accordance with § 326 of the Revenue Act of 1918 (c.
18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1091, 1092, 1093), and that it should
have the benefit of a special assessment under §§ 327 and
328.
Section 327 of the Act provides in subdivision (d) that
the tax shall be determined in accordance with § 328
"where upon application by the corporation the. Commissioner finds and so declares of record that the tax if determined without benefit of this section would, owing to
abnormal conditions affecting the capital or income of the
corporation, work upon the corporation an exceptional
hardship evidenced by gross disproportion between the
tax computed without benefit of this section and the tax
computed by reference to the representative corporations
specified in Section 328."
Section 328 provides in effect that in cases covered
thereby the tax shall be computed without reference to
the value of the invested capital and shall be determined
by the ratio which the average tax of representative corporations engaged in a like or similar trade or business
bears to their average net income.
.The respondent's claim for refund, with the specification of the erroneous denial of a special assessment as the
statement of its grievance, was filed, as we have seen, in
March, 1924. On May 14 of that year, the respondent
received from the Commissioner a letter acknowledging
the filing and notifying the claimant of the procedure to
be followed. "No consideration," it was there written,
"may be given under the provisions of Sections 327 and
328 until statutory net income and invested capital are
definitely determined. It is therefore necessary that you
acquiesce in the net income and invested capital as shown
in the revenue agent's report of March 25, 1920, for the

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

year 1918, or submit exceptions, if any, which you may
take thereto. If exceptions are taken they should be presented in the form of an appeal prepared in accordance
with the provisions of Treasury Decision 3492, a copy of
which is enclosed."
The respondent does not assert that in response to
this notice it took any appeal or filed any exceptions
complaining of the assessment of capital or income. If
any such document were in existence, it would have been
equivalent to an amendment of the claim, and no doubt
would be in evidence. What the respondent chose to do
was obviously to acquiesce in the report that the cash
value of the capital had been fairly ascertained, and to
take its stand on the position that under §§ 327 and 328
its tax should be determined without reference to such
value and in accordance with other methods both exceptional and discretionary. Accordingly the Commissioner
proceeded to a consideration of the claim that error had
been committed in failing to give the taxpayer the benefit of a-special method of assessment. On July 16, 1925,
the respondent was advised by written notice that there
was no evidence of abnormal conditions sufficient to call
for a departure from the usual forms of computation.
The notice, signed by an acting deputy commissioner,
closes with these words: " In accordance with the above
conclusions, your claim will be rejected." To this is
added a statement that the collector for the taxpayer's
district will be officially notified of the rejection at the
expiration of thirty days.
Notwithstanding this notice, the Bureau of Internal
Revenue kept the proceeding open. Writing to the
respondent on February 23, 1926, the Solicitor of the
Bureau states that his office has before it for consideration the application for a special assessment of the taxes
for 1918, and that "before a final decision is reached"
the taxpayer "will be granted an opportunity to be heard

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
73

Opinion of the Court.

orally." If such a hearing is not desired, "the decision
in the matter will be based upon the record as it now
stands." In answer to that invitation the respondent
requested an oral hearing, which it received, and also
filed on April 8, 1926, a statement under oath, which,
by concession, was equivalent in form to an amended
proof of claim. In this statement the respondent put
before the Commissioner the evidence both as to the
undervaluation of the real estate and as to the exclusion
of intangibles.* The Commissioner rejected the claim
on September 3, 1926, by signing the rejection schedule.
We axe holding in United States v. Memphis Oil Co.,
decided herewith, ante, p. 62, that a general claim for
refund, though irregular in form under the Treasury Regulations, may be amended after the period of limitation
by specifying the grounds, if the amendment is made
before final rejection. A statement, without explanation,
to the effect that overpayments have been made in an
aggregate amount is broad enough to cover any and all
grounds for reassessment and return. This at all events
is true 'where the basis of the grievance is that the tax
has been erroneously computed even by the normal
method-that there has been a deviation, in other words,
from the statutory rule. Such is not the claim in controversy here. Here the taxpayer by its claim as originally
presented abandoned the position that there had been any
error of fact or law in the assessment of the tax according
to the normal method, and planted itself on the position
that the special method would be fairer. We are to say
whether the ground thus deserted may be recovered by
amendment.
Certain forms of intangibles, for example, good will, are excluded
in general from the definition of invested capital, but there are special
conditions in which there is a duty to include them. Revenue Act of
1918, § 326, (4) and (5).

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The act of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in
granting or refusing a special assessment under § 327 (d)
of the Act of 1918 is discretionary and administrative, not
subject to be challenged in any court, at least in the
absence of fraud or other irregularities. Williamsport Co.
v. United States, 277 U. S. 551, 562. Discretionary and
administrative also is the review of his determination by
the Board of Tax Appeals. Williamsport Co. v. United
States, supra. If this amendment is permissible, a request
for the exercise of a discretionary jurisdiction will have
been turned after the running of the statute (Revenue Act
of 1921, c. 136, § 252, 42 Stat. 227, 268; Revenue Act of
1924, c. 234, § 1011; 43 Stat. 253, 342; Revenue Act of
1926, c. 27, § § 284, 1113, 44 Stat. 9, 66, 116) into a claim
of error of law or fact, and hence into a controversy within
the jurisdiction of a court. What at the beginning was
non-justiciable,
with exceptions few and narrow (Williamsport Co. v. United States, supra, p. 562) will have
become justiciable at the end.
An amendment so far-reaching, a metamorphosis so
complete, may well be thought to destroy the identity of
the claim or cause of action if the analogies of pleading in
a lawsuit are to govern our decision. A declaration
according to the common count for money had and
received may be good though it does not tell us how the
money was received or the use establhshed. United
States v. Memphis Oil Co., supra. This does not mean
that a pleader who abandons the common count and states
the particular facts out of which his grievance has arisen
retains unfettered freedom to change the statement at his
pleasure. All will then depend on the degree and kind of
the departure. A cause of action alleging as a grievance
that there has been a deviation from a rule of law or the
breach of a legal duty in the collection of a tax iAfar apart
from an appeal to an administrative officer to abandon the
normal rule or method and substitute another, the substi-

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
73

Opinion* of the Court.

tution being dependent upon administrative discretion.'
Overpayments there may have been in each case, yet in
senses widely different. But the analogies of pleadings
are not decisive of the controversy before us) wherever
they may point and however helpful they may be. To
make our conclusion sound, we must keep in mind also the
necessities and realities of administrative practice. A
demand for a special assessment in accordance with § 327
(d) of the statute of 1918 is not a challenge to any act of
the Commissioner in the valuation of invested capital.
On the contrary, the valuation of invested capital is irrelevant if the special method is accepted. The very basis of
the application for the use of such a method is the presence of abnormal conditions whereby an unfair and disproportionate burden will be laid upon the taxpayer if
invested capital is to be reckoned according to the statutory definition (§§ 325, 326) and the profits of the taxpayer subjected to a tax accordingly. Let the new method
be adopted, and the value of the invested capital ceases
to be a factor in the process. The taxpayer, it is true,
may complain even then that there is a Variance between
such capital when restricted to the elements covered by
the statute and invested capital when viewed as an economic concept,. and that by reason of special conditions
there should be an addition of other elements commonly
excluded. See, e. g., J. H. Guild Co. v. Commissioner, 11
B. T. A. 914, 921. Indeed that is the very reason why a
special assessment becomes necessary. The fact remains,
however, that the grievance does not grow out of a failure
of the assessors to value the invested capital truly according to the statute. It has no relation, for example, to an
assessment of tangible property, such as land or buildings, at less than the cash value. The grievance that will
support an application for a special method of assessment
under subdivision (d) of § 327 assumes adherence to the
statute, and counts upon extraordinary conditions as justi-

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

fying a claim that the statute is oppressive. If the special
method is accepted, the income of the taxpayer is considered without reference to capital as commonly determined,
and the tax becomes proportionate to that of other representative corporations engaged in a like business.
A claim or cause of action will be ill-defined for the
purpose of an administrative remedy if the definition
gives no heed to the understanding or conduct of administrative officers. We are to ask ourselves how a request
for a special method of assessment might be expected
to be viewed or acted on by those required to consider it.
The presentation of such a claim, unlike the presentation
of a claim of error in fact or law, does not suggest the
need for a new and general audit of assets and liabilities.*
The two proceedings, alike in form and in consequences,
are essentially diverse. By the very terms of the statute,
§ 327 (d), the special assessment is the outcome of a
special application; it is made on motion of the taxpayer.
A revision for error of fact or law, on the other hand,
may be made by the Commissioner on his own motion,
and indeed is commonly so made, for it is incidental to
his general duty to audit the accounts. Upon an application for special relief-under subdivision (d)-there are
no compensating adjustments favorable to the government that will move an examiner to reconsider the value
of the tangibles, and make it either less or greater. Lewis
v. Reynolds, 284.U. S. 281. He will conceive of the
invested capital as deposited in a separate compartment
which there is no need for him to open. Upon a claim
of deviation from the statute, the taxable balance for the
The range of investigation upon special applications is considered
by Albert E. James, a former member of the Board of Tax Appeals
in an article "Special Assessment Cases in the Courts and the Board,"
published in vol. 8, part 1, National Income Tax Magazine, 287, 289,
290, August, 1930. See, also, Investigation of Bureau of Internal
Revenue, Senate Report No. 27, Part I, 69th Congress, 1st Session,
p. 215.
*

U. S. v. HENRY PRENTISS & CO.
73

Opinion of the Court.

year will be subject to re-audit as if the tax were laid
anew. The grievances differ so essentially that the assertion of the one must be felt to be unrelated to any complaint as to the other.
The eonclusion derived from the analogies of pleadings
in a lawsuit is thus seen to be confirmed by the probabilities, if not the certainties, of administrative practice. If
this is not enough, however, there is confirmation from
other sources. In the pages of this record we find convincing evidence that by the understanding of the parties the
claim for a special assessment was to exclude any claim
for the revision of the value of the capital, and that no
such claim would be pressed, at all events while the claim
for a new method of assessment was alive and undetermined. We have seen that in May, 1924, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue gave notice to the taxpayer
that there could be no consideration of the prayer for
relief under §§ 327 and 328 of the applicable statute
"until statutory net income and invested capital are definitely determined." The taxpayer was accordingly
informed in conformity, it seems, with the usual practice
of the department, that it would be necessary to do one
or other of two things: to appeal from the report as to
invested capital and income in accordance with a prescribed form, or to acquiesce in it. Cf. Commissioner v.
Ohio FallsDye & F. Works, 50 F. (2d) 660; Norton Co. v.
Commissioner, 50 F. (2d) 664. The notice would tend to
show, though assent to its requirements were lacking, that
in the judgment of the iien intrusted with the administration of the act, the two subjects of inquiry are diverse and
independent. Coupled with the assent of the taxpayer,
its significance is heightened. There is no suggestion that
the taxpayer, when faced with this alternative, resorted to
an appeal. In these circumstances its conduct in proceeding with its application for a special assessment was a tacit
assent to the condition imposed by the Commissioner and

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

an abandonment of any objection that capital and income
had been erroneously valued if valuation was to be ascertained according to the normal method. We have seen that
an application for a special assessment involves an appeal
by the taxpayer to the Commissioner's discretion. The
application being of that order, a condition may reasonably be imposed that the inquiryshall be postponed until
other and unrelated objections have been either determined or abandoned. There is room for argument that the
taxpayer, having won the privilege of a hearing on those
terms, is estopped from retracting its assent and resuming
the abandoned ground. Sturm v. Boker, 150 U. S. 312,
333, 334; Davis v. Wakelee, 156 U. S. 680, 689. At least
its assent is equivalent to an agreement that the claim for
a special assessment shall be deemed to be a distinct one
from that for a revision of the values. Retraction, if ever
possible, must be held to be too late when the statute of
limitations has interposed a bar.
The respondent complains of the ruling of the Court of
Appeals whereby the value of intangibles was excluded
from the invested capital for the year 1920 and the judgment of the District Court modified accordingly. The
argument is that this court has jurisdiction in the exercise
of its discretion to review those parts of the judgment
adverse to the respondent, though no writ of certiorari was
granted except to the petitioner, the government, nor was
any other even asked for. We are not required at this
time either to affirm or to deny the existence of the power
that the argument imputes to us. If the power exists, the
respondent has not persuaded us that our discretion should
be moved to use it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should
be reversed to the extent of the petitioner's objections
thereto, and the cause remanded to the District.Court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

