. 78 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

reference to purposes and anticipated consequences without the advantage of the demonstrations of experience.
If in actual operation it should prove to be an undue restraint upon interstate commerce, if it should appear that
the plan is used to the impairment of fair competitive
opportunities, the decision upon the present record should
not preclude the Government from seeking the remedy
Which would be suited to such a state of facts. We think
also that, in the event of future controversy arising from
the actual operation of the plan, the results of the labor
of both parties in this litigation in presenting the volu.minousevidence as to the industry, market conditions and
transportation facilities and rates, should continue to
be available, without the necessity of reproducing that
evidence.
The decree will be reversed and the cause will be r.manded to the District Court with instructions to enter a
decree dismissing the bill of complaint without prejudice
and with the provision that the court shall retain jurisdiction of The cause and may set aside the decree and take
further proceedings if future developments justify that
course in the appropriate enforcement of the Anti-Trust
Reversed and remanded.
Act.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS thinks that the court below
reached the proper conclusion and that its decree should
be affirmed.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.. BROOKS ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 496. Argued February 9, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.
1. In computing the tax on the transfer of the estate of a.nonresident
decedent under the Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 301-304, that part of
the gross estate was to be returned and valued "which at the time

of his death is situated in the United States." Held:

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

379

Syllabus.

(1) That bonds of foreign governments and of foreign and domestic corporations and stock of foreign corporations, belonging to
a nonresident alien but kept in this country at the time of his death,
should be included in the computation. Pp. 386, 406.
(2) A local cash deposit belonging to the decedent should likewise be included if not "deposited with any person carrying on the
banking business" and therefore specifically excepted by § 303 (e).
Pp. 395, 406.
(3) It is to be presumed that Congress, by the phrase "situated
in the United States," meant to embrace all property, tangible or
intangible, having a situs subjecting it to the federal taxing power, in
accordance with principles declared by this Court before the statute
was passed; and it is inadmissible to restrict the intention because
of limitations on state taxing power which were determined later.
P. 388.
(4) This construction is confirmed by administrative practice
and legislative history, and is not inconsistent with special qualifying provisions found in J 303 (d) and (e) of the Act. Pp. 389-394.
2. Substantial regnactment in later Acts of a provision theretofore
construed in regulations of the department charged with its administration, is persuasive evidence of legislative approval of the
regulations. P. 393.
3. As a nation with all the attributes of sovereignty, the United
States is vested with all the powers of government necessary to
maintain an effective control of international relations. P. 396.
4. Taxation by one nation of securities belonging to a nonresident
alien which are physically within its jurisdiction violates no principle of international law. P. 396.
5. The remedy for multiple taxation resulting from several nations
having jurisdiction to tax the same interest on distinct grounds,citizenship, domicile, source of income, situs,-is by international
negotiation and convention. P. 399.
6. The United States is as competent as other nations to enter into
such negotiations and become a party to such conventions, -unless
a limitation upon its sovereign power in that regard is necessarily
found to be imposed by its own Constitution. P. 400.
.7. A tax by the United States on securities and bank accounts owned
by a nonresident alien but kept in this country, being within the
federal taxing power and not being arbitrary or. confiscatory, is
consistent with the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
P. 400.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioner.

288 U.S.

8. The principle that one State of the Union may not tax securities
kept in t ,3tate but owned by a resident of another State, is a
limitation due to the relations of the States to each other in our
constitutional system, and has no application to the power of the
Federal Government to tax the property of a nonresident alien.
Pp. 400, 403.
60 F. (2d) 890, reversed.

CERTIOARm, 287 U. S. 594, to review the affirmance of a
judgment sustaining a ruling of the Board of Tax Appeals,
22 B. T. A. 71, which set aside a deficiency assessment.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and Messrs. Sewall Key and
J. Louis Monarch were on the brief, for petitioner.
The recent decisions of this Court dealing with the
power of the States to tax intangibles of nonresidents have
no bearing upon the question of the intent of Congress as
expressed in the Revenue Act of 1924.
In 1924, the power of the Federal Government to tax
the transfer of intangibles at the place where the physical
evidence was kept, was clearly recognized. The Treasury
Regulations dealing with prior Revenue Acts, which were
in effect when the Revenue Act of 1924 was adopted,
treated intangibles-as having a situs of their own. Under
familiar rules, the executive interpretation of the earlier
statutes should be carried into the reenacted statute.
Moreover, the statute indicates on its face that Congress intended to reach the transfer of intangibles if they
were physically located in the United States. Two classes
of intangibles were expressly excluded from the gross
estate; which indicates that all other intangibles similarly situated and not so excepted shall be deemed property within the United States.
The section dealing with domestic stocks was designed
to insure their inclusion, whether the certificates were
within or without the United States. This express pro-

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Argument for Petitioner.

vision for the inclusion of domestic stock, regardless of
the situs of the certificates, can not operate to exclude
from the gross estate other intangibles "situated in the
United States," as that phrase was understood when the
statute was enacted.
The recent decisions of this Court dealing with the
power of States to tax intangibles are not applicable here,
because the rule applied as between the States was
adopted to avoid double taxation and to secure parity
between tangibles and intangibles, neither of which considerations is important here. The rule applied to the
States is based upon the maxim mobilia sequuntur personam; but that is only a fiction of the law which is not
of universal application. It is intended for convenience
and is not controllingwhere justice does not demand it.
It was invented to prevent escape from taxation and
should not be employed otherwise. To apply it here
would place intangibles upon a different basis from tangibles. The reason for the rule applied to the States must
mark the extent of its application; and since the reasoning is not applicable here, the rule itself may be disregarded.*
Moreover, the Federal Government is not limited in
the same way as the States in selecting subjects for taxation; and the implication from the cases is that where the
Federal Government affords a benefit there is power to
tax. The property here involved enjoyed the protection
of this Government. Unless the security and protection
of the United States are to be made available to aliens on
better terms than to citizens, the Government must have
the power to tax.
The securities were all held as investments. There is
sufficient basis for the contention that the property had
acquired a business situs in this country. Its complete
enjoyment could be secured by merely keeping it safe and

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for. Respondents.

288 U.S.

collecting the income, The absence of other activities,
which the character of the property did not demand, is
not important.
Mr. Francis B. Hamlin, with whom Mr. Richard T.
Greene was on the brief, for respondents.
Prior to 1924 this Court had consistently recognized
the common law doctrine of mobilia sequuntur personam
as fixing the situs of intangible property at the domicile
of the owner, but had conceded to taxing authorities the
power, (since denied them, except possibly where the
intangibles have acquired a "business situs" elsewhere,)
of fixing an additional situs by express statutory provision. Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania (State Tax on Foreign-Held Bonds), 15 Wall. 300; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss,
100 U. S. 491; New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309;
Eidman v. Martinez, 184 U. S. 578; Blackstone v. Miller,
188 U. S. 189; Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392; Wheeler v.
Sohmer, 233 U. S.434.
DeGanay v. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, does riot reject the
maxim mobilia sequuntur personam. In applying the
income tax provisions of the 1913 Act, this Court did, as
petitioner points out, hold that the maxim did not apply
to the situation there presented, but the reason was that
the property from which the income was derived had acquired a business situs in the United States, because that
property was a fund which had been invested and reinvested since 1885 in the United States by the owner's
agent domiciled here. The distinction between this sort
of situation and the situation in the case at bar is well
illustrated in Ewa PlantationCo. v. Wilder, 289 Fed. 664,
and Hill v. Carter,47 F. (2d) 869; cert. den. 284 U. S. 625.
What this Court had held prior to 1924 was not that
intangibles had a general situs for taxation where the
evidences thereof were found, but that they might be
given such a situs by a statute so providing.

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Argument for Respondents.

In this state of the declared law it is very clear that, if
Congress had intended to attempt to fix a situs for intangibles for purposes of the estate-tax provisions of the
Revenue Act of 1924 at the place where the physical evidences of the intangible property were found, it would
have recognized the necessity of plainly so declaring.
We find no definition in the Act of the phrase "situated
in the United States." We find it provided in § 303 (d)
that stock in a domestic corporation shall be deemed
property within the United States. No similar provision is made as to stock in foreign corporations or
bonds. We find it provided in § 303 (e) that the amount
receivable as insurance upon the life of a nonresident
decedent shall not be deemed property within the United
States. In the light of the history of this provision it
is evident that Congress regarded a tax upon insurance
upon the life of a nonresident decedent as an exception
to the general rule. See Sen. Rep. 275, 67th Cong.,
1st Sess.
The general rule is that the situs of a debt is at the
domicile of the creditor. The provision of § 303 (e)
as to bank deposits is merely an express application of
the rule. It is well known that this provision, first
inserted in the Revenue Act of 1921, was a response to
expressed desires on the part of the banking interests
of the country to make it the financial center of the
world by giving nonresidents an express assurance that
the maintenance of bank balances here would not involve
a tax. And there is ground for the belief that the Congress thought of such money as tangible rather than
intangible property. A depositor is sometimes deemed
to be the ownerof the tangible property, i. e., the specie
in the bank. See New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309'
316; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 205.
All the cases which have passed upon the construction
of the statute are in harmony with the views expressed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondents.

288 U.S.

Estate of Garvan v. Commissioner, 25 B. T. A. 612;
Shenton v. United States, 53 F. (2d) 249; Sanchez v
Bowers, 57 F. (2d) 324.
In so far as the bonds are concerned, the prior regulations proceeded upon a theory contrary to the common
law rule (Art. 53, Regulations 63, Revenue Act of 1921),
while, by their silence as to stock of foreign corporations, they adopted the common law rule. There is
certainly no warrant in the statutes preceding the 1924
Act for any such distinction. It is, therefore, impossible
to place any reliance upon the theory of a legislative
adoption of the prior regulations by the 1924 Act. See
Shenton v. United States, 53 F. (2d) 249, 250, 251.
The Act of 1924, if given the construction for which
the petitioner contends, would be repugnant to the Fifth
Amendment. State Tax on Foreign-HeldBonds, 15 Wall.
300; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312. The protection of
the Fifth Amendment extends to the alien friend. Russian Volunteer Fleet v. United States, 282 U. S. 481, 489.
Since the respondents' decedent was a nonresident
alien, the United States did not have that power over him
and his property which the relations of citizenship and
domicile, or of either of them, might have given, and the
United States could therefore tax the transfer of only
such of his property as had a situs within its jurisdiction.
Whatever doubts may have existed prior to 1930 as to
the situs of such intangibles for purposes of taxation have
been resolved by the recent decisions of this Court; and
it is now established that the maxim mobilia sequuntur
personam applies and their only situs for taxation is the
domicile of their owner, except possibly in the case where
they have become integral parts of a business localized in
another jurisdiction. Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204; Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586;
Beidler v. South CarolinaTax Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1; First
National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312.

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Argument for Respondents.

These cases deal with the state power, but they are
made applicable to the United States by Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312.
"The transmission from the dead to the living of a
particular thing, whether corporeal or incorporeal, is an
event which can not take place in two or more States at
one and the same time." First National Bank v. Maine,
284 U. S. 312, 326. Since "due regard for the processes
of correct thinking compels the conclusion that a determination fixing the local situs of a thing for the purpose
of transferring it in one State carries with it an implicit
denial that there is a local situs in another State for the
purpose of transferring the same thing there" (id., pp.
326, 327), and since in a case arising from an attempt by
New York to tax the transmission of this decedent's
stocks, bonds and moneys on deposit, this Court.,would
hold that their transmission did not occur in New York
(vide the Missouri case, supra), but did take place in
Cuba, it is inconceivable that in the case at bar the Court
could hold the contrary.
In United States v. Bennett, 232 U. S. 299, the situs of
property had nothing to do with the decision; the basis
of the power to tax was the citizenship of the taxpayer.
See United States v. Goelet, 232 U. S. 293; Cook v. Tait,
265 U, S. 47.
Situs within the taxing jurisdiction is necessary to the
imposition of a tax upon the transmission of property at
death. Frick v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473.
Obviously, in the present state of civilization and under
our form of government, the tax sought by the Treasury
in this case can not be exacted merely because the Government has the physical power to collect it. Might does
not make right in this country.
Petitioner's quid pro quo argument is baseless for at
least two reasons. In the first place, the tax is not a tax
levied in exchange for protection of property, but solely

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

upon the privilege of transmission of property. That
privilege in the case at bar was not granted by the United
States or any State of the Union. In the second place,
whatever protection was afforded the property was furnished not alone by the United States, but to an equal or
greater degree by the State of New York.
Whether or not other countries do not permit the
maxim mobilia sequuntur personam to be invoked in
-favor of nonresidents is entirely immaterial. Russian
Volunteer Fleet v. United States, supra, at pages 491-492.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Mr. Selden Bacon; by Mr. Edward N. Perkins; and by
Messrs. Charles Angulo and Russell L. Bradford.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondents contested the determination of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in including in the gross
estate of decedent certain intangible property. Decedent,
who died in October, 1924, was a subject of Great Britain
and a resident of Cuba. He was not engaged in business
in the United States. The property in question consisted
of securities, viz., bonds of foreign corporations, bonds of
foreign governments, bonds of domestic corporations and
of a domestic municipality, and stock in a foreign corporation, and also of a balance of a cash deposit.1 Some of the
securities, consisting of a stock certificate and bonds, were
in the possession of decedent's son in New York City, who
The property was scheduled as follows:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

Bonds of foreign corporations and accrued interest.. $24,384.97
Bonds of foreign governments and accrued interest.. 55, 610.49
Bonds of domestic corporations and accrued interest. 460,315.32
Bonds of a domestic municipality and accrued
interest ........................................
15,073.57
(e) Stock in a foreign corporation (Cuba) .............
50,000.00
(f) Cash on deposit with Lawrence Turnure & Company..
14,517.98

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Opinion of the Court.

collected the income and placed it to the credit of decedent
in a New York bank. Other securities were in the possession of Lawrence Turnure & Company in New York City,
who collected the income and credited it to decedent's
checking account, which showed the above mentioned balance in his favor. None of the securities was pledged or
held for any indebtedness. Finding these facts, the Board
of Tax Appeals decided that the property should not be
included in the decedent's gross estate for the purpose of
the Federal Estate Tax (22 B. T. A. 71), and the decision
was aflnrmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 60 F. (2d)
890. This Court granted certiorari, 287 U. S. 594.
The provisions governing the imposition of the tax are
found in the Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 25 ,
303-307, and are set forth in the margin.2 Two questions
2 "CSec. 301. (a) In lieu of the tax imposed by Title IV of the Revenue Act of 1921, a tax equal to the sum of the following percentages
-of the value of the net estate (determined as provided in section
303) is hereby imposed upon the transfer of the net estate of every
decedent dying after the enactment of this Act, whether a resident
or nonresident of the United States: " (rates follow) . . .
"Sec. 302. The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his death of all
property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated"(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent at the
time of his death which after his death is subject to the payment of
the charges against his estate and the expenses of its administration
and is subject to distribution as part of his estate; . . .
"Sec. 303. For the purpose of the tax the value of the net estate
shall be determined"(a) In the case of a resident, by deducting from the value of the
gross estate--...
"(b) In the case of a nonresident, by deducting from the value of
that part of his gross estate which at the t-me of his death is situated
in the United States"(1) That proportion of the deductions specified in paragraph (1)
of subdivision (a) of this section which the value of such part bears
to the value of his entire gross estate, wherever situated, but in no
ease shall the amount so deducted exceed 10 per centum of the value

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

are presented,-(1) whether the property in question is
covered by these provisions, and (2) whether, if construed
to be applicable, they are valid under the Fifth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The decisions below
answered the first question in the negative.
First. The first question is one of legislative intention.
In the case of a nonresident of the. United States, that
part of the gross estate was to be returned and valued
"which at the time of his death is situated in the United
States." In interpreting this clause, regard must be had
to the purpose in view. The Congress was exercising its
taxing power. Defining the subject of its exercise, the
Congress resorted to a general description referring to the

situs of the property. The statute made no distinction
between tangible and intangible property. It did not
except intangibles.

It did not except securities.

Save as

stated, it did not except debts due to a nonresident from
of that part of his gross estate which at the time of his death is
situated in the United States; ...
"(c) No deduction shall be allowed in the case of a nonresident
unless the executor includes in the return required to be filed under
section 304 the value at the time of his death of that part of the gross
estate of the nonresident not situated in the United States.
"(d) For the purpose of Part I of this title, stock in a domestic
corporation owned and held by a nonresident decedent shall be
deemed property within the United States,...
"(e) The amount receivable as insurance upon the life of a nonresident decedent, and any moneys deposited with any person carrying on the banking business, by or for a nonresident decedent who
was not engaged in business in the United States at the time of his
death, shall- not, for the purpose of Part I of this title, be deemed
property within the United States....
"Sec. 304. (a) . . .The executor shall also, at such times and in
such manner as may be required by regulations made pursuant to
law, file with the collector a return under oath in duplicate, setting
forth (1) the value of the gross estate of the decedent at the time of
his death, or, in case of a nonresident, of that part of his- gross
estate situated in the United States; . .."

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Opinion of the Court.

resident debtors. As to tangibles and intangibles alike,
it made the test one of situs, and we think it is clear that
the reference is to property which, according to accepted
principles, could be deemed to have a situs in this country for the purpose of the exertion of the Federal power
of taxation. Again, so far as the intention of the Congress is concerned, we think that the principles thus impliedly invoked by the statute were the principles theretofore declared and then held. It is quite inadmissible to
assume that the Congress exerting Federal power was
legislating in disregard of existing doctrine, or to view its
intention in the light of decisions as to State power which
were not rendered until several years later.' The argument is pressed. that the reference to situs must, as to
intangibles, be taken to incorporate the principle of
mobilia sequuntur personam and thus, for example, that
the bonds here in question though physically in New
York should be regarded as situated in Cuba where decedent resided. But the Congress did not enact a maxim.
Wheti the statute was passed it was well established that
the taxing power could reach such securities in the view
that they had a situs where they were physically located.
As securities thus actually present in this country were
regarded as having a situs here for the purpose of taxation, we are unable to say that the Congress in its broad
description, embracing all property "situated in the
United States," intended to exclude such securities from
the gross estate to be returned and valued.
The general clause with respect to the property of nonresidents "situated in the United States" is found in the
provisions for an Estate Tax of the Revenue Act of 1916,
§ 203 (b), 39 Stat. 778, and was continued in the Revenue
'The ease of Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, was not overruled
until 1930. See Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S.
204, 209.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Acts of 1918, § 403 (b), 40 Stat. 1098; of 1921, § 403 (b),
42 Stat. 280; and of 1924, § 303 (b), the provision now
under consideration. Before the phrase was used in the
Act of 1916, this Court, in passing upon questions arising
under the inheritance tax law of June 13, 1898, § 29,
30 Stat. 464 (in a case where the decedent had left "certain federal, municipal and corporate bonds" in the
custody of his agents in New York), recognized that the
property would not have escaped the tax, had it been
imposed in apt terms, in the view that the property was
intangible and belonged to a nonresident. Eidman v.
Martinez, 184 U. S. 578, 582. While that statute was
found to be inapplicable, as the property had not passed,
within the limitations of the statute, "by will or by the
intestate laws of any State or Territory," the opinion
conceded the power of Congress "to impose an inheritance tax upon property in this country, no matter where
owned or transmitted." Id., p. 592. We see no reason
to doubt that it was with this conception of its power that
the Congress enacted the later provisions for an estate tax
in the case of nonresidents. And before the Revenue Act
of 1921 was passed, we had stated the principles deemed
controlling, in DeGanay v. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, in construing the provision of the Income Tax Law of 1913,
38 Stat. 166, imposing a tax upon the net income "from
all property owned . . .. in the United States by persons
residing elsewhere." The decision was upon a certified
question with respect to the income of a citizen and
resident of France from stocks, bonds, and mortgages
secured upon property in the United States, where the
owner's agent in the United States collected and remitted
the income and had "physical possession of the certificates of stock, the bonds and the mortgages." The
Court said,-" The question submitted comes to this: Is
the income from the stock, bonds and mortgages, held by

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Opinion of he Court.

the Pennsylvania Company [the agent], derived from
property owned in the United States? A learned argument is made to the effect that the stock certificates, bonds
and mortgages, are not property; that they are but evidences of the ownership of interests which are property;
that the property, in a legal sense, represented by the
securities, would exist if the physical evidences thereof
were destroyed. But we are of opinion that these refinements are not decisive of the congressional intent in using
the term ' property' in this statute. Unless the contrary
appears, statutory words are presumed to be used in their
ordinary and usual sense, and with a meaning commonly
attributable to them. To the general understanding and
with the common meaning usually attached to such
descriptive terms, bonds, mortgages and certificates of
stock are regarded as property. By state and federal
statutes they are often treated as property, not as mere
evidences of the interests which they represent." Having
no doubt "that the securities, herein involved, are property," the Court proceeded to the question,-"Are they
property within the United States? It is insisted that the
maxim mobilia sequuntur personam applies in this
instance and that the situs of the property was at the
domicile of the owner in France. But this Court has
frequently declared that the maxim, a fiction at most,
must yield to the facts and circumstances of cases which
require it; and that notes, bonds and mortgages may
acquire a situs at a place other than the domicile of the
owner, and be there reached by the taxing authority."
Then, describing the location of the certificates of stock,
bonds and mortgages in question in the possession of the
agent in Philadelphia, the Court concluded that the
securities constituted "property within the United States
within the meaning of Congress as expressed in the
statute under consideration." The reference in the state-

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

ment of this conclusion to the authority of the agent to
sell, invest and reinvest was by way of emphasis, and is
not to be taken as importing a necessary qualification.
The Court answered the certified question in the affirmative. Id., pp. 380-383.
Under the Revenue Act of 1916, the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue ruled "that Congress has the power and
evidenced an intention "in that act" to impose a tax upon
bonds, both foreign and domestic, owned by a non-resident decedent, which bonds are physically situate in the
United States" and that "such bonds must be returned
as a portion of his gross estate." T. D. 2530. The regulations promulgated by the Treasury Department under
the Revenue Act of 1918, interpreting the words "situated
in the United States," contained the following: "The
situs of property, both real and personal, for the purpose
of the tax is its actual situs. Stock in a domestic corporation, and insurance payable by a domestic insurance
company, constitute property situated in the United
States, although owned by, or payable to, a nonresident.
A domestic corporation or insurance company is one created or organized in the United States. Bonds actually
situated in the United States, moneys on deposit with domestic banks and moneys due on open accounts by
domestic debtors constitute property subject to tax."
Regulations No. 37, Art. 60, T. D. 2378, 2910, 3145. This
provision, in substance, as to bonds and moneys due (other
than insurance moneys and bank deposits, which were
made the subject of a special statutory provision), was
repeated in the regulations under the Revenue Act of
1921, as follows: "Bonds actually within the United
States, moneys due on open accounts by domestic debtors,
and stock of a corporation or association created or organized in the United States, constitute property having its
situs in the United States." Regulations No. 63, Art. 53,
T. D. 3384. We find no ground for questioning the inten-

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

393

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the Congress, when in the Revenue Act of 1924 it
reenacted the provision as to the property of nonresidents
"situated in the United States," to impose the tax with
respect to bonds physically within the United States and
stock in domestic corporations. Brewster v. Gage, 280
U. S.327, 337.
The argument is pressed that the regulations above
quoted are silent as to stock owned by nonresidents in
foreign corporations when the certificates of stock are held
within the United States. We think that the omission
is inconclusive. It may be more fairly said that the
express terms of these regulations did not go far enough,
rather than that, so far as they did go, they failed to
express the legislative intent. In the view which identifies
the property interest with its physical representative, no
sufficient reason appears for holding that bonds were intended to be included, and not certificates of stock, if these
were physically in the United States at the time of death'.
See DeGanay v. Lederer, supra; Disconto-Gesellschaft v.
U. S. Steel Corp., 267 U. S. 22, 28, 29. The regulations
adopted under the Revenue Act of 1924 expanded the
provision as to the "situs of property of nonresident decedents" so as t6 include stock in foreign corporations
when the certificates were held here, by providing: "Real
estate within the United States, stocks and bonds physically in the United States at date of death, moneys due
on open accounts by domestic debtors, and stock of a corporation or association created or organized in the United
States, constitute property having a situs in the United
States." Regulations No. 68, Art. 50, T. D. 3683. The
Revenue Act of 1926, § 303 (b), 44 Stat. 73, rebnacted the
provision as to property of nonresidents "situated in the
United States," and the regulation under that Act expressly embraces "certificates of stock, bonds, bills, notes,
and mortgages, physically in the United States at date of
death "as property "having a situs in the United States,"

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

in addition to the clause relating to stock of domestic
corporations. Regulations No. 70, Art. 50. And these
provisions have been continued. Id. 1929 edition.
We do not find that the qualifying provisions of
§§ 303 (d) and (e) of the Revenue Act of 1924 are incon,
sistent with the departmental construction. Section 303
(d) provided that "stock in a domestic corporation
owned and held by a nonresident decedent shall be deemed
property within the United States." Respondents point
to the absence of a similar provision as to bonds and as
to stock in foreign corporations, and invoke the maxim
expressio unius est exclusio alterius. But the argument
seems to prove too much. It is not to be supposed that
the Congress intended that stock owned by a nonresident
in a domestic corporation, where the certificates of stock
were held in the United States, were to be subject to the
tax, and that bonds of the same corporation similarly
owned and physically in the United States, were to be
excepted. See T. D. 2530. We think that the Government's construction of the provision is the more reasonable one; that the place where the stock was held was not
an element in the application of § 303 (d), and that this
provision was designed to insure the inclusion of the
stock of a domestic corporation in all cases, whether the
certificates were physically present in the United States
or not. Compare Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466, 473,
474.
Section 303 (e) provided: "The amount receivable as
insurance upon the life of a nonresident decedent, and any
moneys deposited with any person carrying on the banking business, by or for a nonresident decedent who was not
engaged in business in the United States at the time of his
death," are not to be deemed "property within the United
States." The Revenue Act of 1918, § 403 (b) (3), had
provided that the amount receivable as insurance, where
the insurer is a domestic corporation, should be regarded

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Opinion of the Court.

as property within the United States, and this was repealed by the substituted provision of the Revenue Act of
1921, § 403 (b) (3), to the contrary effect, the latter being
carried forward in the Revenue Act of 1924. It is a matter
of common knowledge that American life insurance companies were engaged in business abroad, and no clear inference with respect to the question now under consideration
may be drawn either from the original provision or from
its repeal.' But the significance of the remaining clause
of the Act of 1921, reenacted in 1924, is apparent., This
provided for the exclusion from the gross estate of bank
deposits in this country, in the circumstances stated, of
deposits which, as constituting property of nonresidents
situated in the United States, had theretofore been subject
to the estate tax.8 The Congress evidently thought it
necessary to make this express exception, in order to exclude such deposits from the tax, but did not provide any
exception with respect to bonds and certificates of stock
physically here.
As to decedent's deposit balance in the instant case, the
Board of Tax Appeals did not make an explicit finding
that Lawrence Turnure & Company, with whom the decedent had a checking account, was "carrying on the
banking business." The Board thought that the point
was not material. 22 B. T. A. p. 87. If that firm was
engagr in the banking business, the statute required the,
exclusion of the deposit balance from the gross estate. As
to the securities, in view of the legislative history and
departmental construction, we find no basis for holding
that the statute, if valid in this application, did not
require their inclusion.
'See House Rep. No. 767, 65th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 22; Sen. Rep. No.
275, 67th Cong., 1st sess., p. 25; House Rep, No. 350, 67th Cong.,
1st seas., p. 15.,
&See Sem. Rep. No. 275, 67th Cong., lit sees., p. 25.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Second. The question of power to lay the tax. As a
nation with all the attributes of sovereignty, the United
States is vested with all the powers of government necessary to maintain an effective control of international relations. Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698,
711; Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457, 555, 556. "We should
hesitate long," we said in Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S.
299, 311, "before limiting or embarrassing such powers."
So far as our relation to other nations is concerned, and
apart from any self-imposed constitutional restriction,
we cannot fail to regard the property in question as being
within the jurisdiction of the United States,-that is, it
was property within the reach of the power which the
United States by virtue of its sovereignty could exercise
as against other nations and their subjects without violating any established principle of international law. This
view of the scope of the sovereign power in the matter of
the taxation of securities physically within the territorial
limits of the sovereign is sustained by high authority and
is a postulate of legislative action in other countries. The
subject was considered by the House of Lords in Winans
v. Attorney-General, [1910] A. C. 27. The question was
as to the liability to estate duty, under the British
Finance Act, 1894, of bonds and certificates when these
were physically situated in the United Kingdom at the
death of the owner, who was a citizen of the United
States and domiciled here. The securities were payable
to bearer, marketable on the London Stock Exchange,
and passed by delivery. The executors insisted that" the
property did not pass by the law of the United Kingdom
but by the law of the deceased's domicile "; that "the
presence in the United Kingdom of the documents of title
to the property did not create a liability to estate duty ";
that "all the debtors on the bonds and certificates were
at the time of the death and all material times outside the

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Opinion of the Court.

United Kingdom and beyond its jurisdiction "; that "the
marketability of a piece of paper in the United Kingdom was not sufficient to make the debt of which it was
evidence liable to estate duty"; and that "the property
was not situate in the United Kingdom." The House of
Lords was not convinced by these contentions. The Lord
Chancellor observed that "the property received the full
protection of British laws--which is a constant basis of
taxation-and can only be transferred from the deceased
to other persons by the authority of a British Court."
Id., p. 30. Lord Atkinson referred to the status of the
securities under international law.. "Being physically
situated in England at the time of their owner's death,"
said his Lordship, '"they were subject to English law and
the jurisdiction of English Courts, and taxes might therefore prima facie be leviable upon them. . . . There
does not appear, a priori, to be anything contrary to the
principles of international law, or hurtful to the polity
of nations, in a State's taxing property physically situated within its borders, wherever its owner may have
been domiciled at the time of his death." Id., p. 31. And
Lord Shaw of Dunfermline summed up the application
of the British acts as follows: "In the case of an English
citizen all his property 'wheresoever situate,' subject to
the exception in the Act, is aggregated, and into that
aggregation-to confine oneself to the matter in handall personal property situate out of the United Kingdom
must come, unless legacy or succession duty would not
have been payable in respect thereof. In the case of the
foreign citizen no taxation, of course, falls, except upon
property situate within the United Kingdom, and I know
no reason either under the law of nations, by the custom
of nations, or in the nature of things why property within
the jurisdiction of this country, possessed and held under
the protection of its laws, should not, upon transfer from

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

the dead to the living, pay the same toll which would
have been paid by property enjoying the same protection
but owned by a deceased British subject." Id., pp. 47, 48.
In this view, the securities were held to be subject to the
estate duty.'
In Disconto-Gesellschaftv. U. S. Steel Corp., 267 U. S.
22, a somewhat analogous question of jurisdiction arose
in relation to the title to shares of stock of an American
corporation, which were owned by German corporations,
and the certificates of which had been seized in London
by the British Public Trustee appointed to be custodian
of enemy property during the late war. As was found to
be usual with shares which it was desired to deal in abroad,
the shares had been registered on the books of the American corporation in the name of an English broker or
dealer who had endorsed the certificates in blank. The
German corporations had bought the shares and held the
certificates in London. Their suit here was to establish
title, to cancel outstanding certificates and to have new
certificates issued to them. They based their claim on
the proposition that seizure of the certificates in Great
Britain did not constitute a seizure of the shares; that the
presence of the certificates did not bring the shares within
the territorial jurisdiction of Great Britain. This Court
took a different view and sustained the title of the British
Public Trustee. The Court thus stated the basis of its
ruling: "New Jersey having authorized this corporation
like others to issue certificates that so far represent the
stock that ordinarily at least no one can get the benefits
of ownership except through and by means of the paper,
it recognizes as owner anyone to whom the person declared
6 See, also, as to taxation in Italy, U. S. Department of Commerce's
pamphlet entitled "Taxation of Business in Italy," Trade Promotion

Series-No. 82 (1929); sub tit. "Tax on Successions," p. 105; as
to taxation in France, see "French Fiscal Legislation," Neurriwe
and Bezoz (1928), pp. 151-153.

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

399

-Opinion of the Court.

by the paper to be owner has transferred it by the indorsement provided for, wherever it takes place. It allows
an indorsement in blank, and by its law as well as by the
law of England an indorsement in blank authorizes
anyone who is the lawful owner of the paper to write in
a name, and thereby entitle the person so named to demand registration as owner in his turn upon the corporation's books. But the question who is the owner of the
paper depends upon the law of the place where the paper
is. It does not depend upon the holder's having given
value or taking without notice of outstanding claims but
upon the things done being sufficient by the law of the
place to transfer the title. An execution locally valid is
as effectual as an ordinary purchase.

Yazoo & Mississippi

Valley R. Co. v. Clarksdale, 257 U. S. 10. The things
done in England transferred the title to the Public Trustee
by English law." The Court thought it "so plain that
the Public Trustee got a title good as against the plaintiffs by the original seizure" that it was deemed unnecessary to advert to the treaties upon which the Public
Trustee also relied or upon the subsequent dealings
between England and Germany. Id., pp. 28, 29.
As jurisdiction may exist in more than one government,
that is, jurisdiction based on distinct grounds-the citizenship of the owner, his domicile, the source of income,
the situs of the property--efforts have been made to preclude multiple taxation through the negotiation of appropriate international conventions. These endeavors, however, have proceeded upon express or implied recognition,
and not in denial, of the sovereign taxing power as exerted
by governments in the exercise of jurisdiction upon any
one of these grounds. For many years this subject has
been under consideration by international committees of
experts, and drafts of conventions have been proposed,
the advantages of which lie in the mutual concessions or
reciprocal restrictions to be voluntarily made or accepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

by Powers freely negotiating on the basis of recognized
principles of jurisdiction." In its international relations,
the United States is as competent as other nations to enter
into such negotiations, and to become a party to such conventions, without any disadvantage due to limitation of
its sovereign power, unless that limitation is necessarily
found to be imposed by its own Constitution.
Respondents urge that constitutional restriction precluding the federal estate tax in question is found in the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The point,
being solely one of jurisdiction to tax, involves none of the
other considerations raised by confiscatory or arbitrary
legislation inconsistent with the fundamental conceptions
of justice which are .embodied in the due process clause
for the protection of life, liberty and property of all persons-citizens and friendly aliens alike. Russian Volunleer Fleet v. United States, 282 U. S. 481, 489; Nichols v.
Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531, 542; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S.
312, 326. If in the instant case the Federal Government
had jurisdiction to impose the tax, there is manifestly no
ground for assailing it. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41,
109; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, 61; Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 153, 154; Brushaber v.
Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 24; United States v.
Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, 93. Respondents' reliance is upon
the decisions of this Court with respect to the limitation
of the taxing power of the States under the due process
'Publication entitled "Double Taxation Relief," Bureau of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce, Department of Commerce (January, 1928),
pp. 20, 21; "Double Taxation and Tax Evasion," Report of the General Meeting of Government Experts to League of Nations, Document C. 562, M. 178, 1928, "II, 49, pp. 22-24; Fifth General Congres,
International Chamber of Commerce, Amsterdam, 1929, Resolution
No. 1, Annex, p. 11; Washington Congress, 1931, International Chamber of Commerce, Resolution No. 10, pp. 20-22 See also, "Taxation

of Foreign and National Enterprises," (League of Nations, Geneva,
1932).

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Opinion of the Court.

clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Farmers Loan &
Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204; Baldwin v. Mis8ouri, 281 U. S. 586; Beidler v. South CarolinaTax Commission, 282 U. S. 1; First National Bank v. Maine, 284
U. S. 312. They insist that the like clause of the Fifth
Amendment imposes a corresponding restriction upon the
taxing power of the Federal Government.
The argument is specious, but it ignores an established
distinction. Due process requires that the limits of jurisdiction shall not be transgressed. That requirement
leaves the limits of jurisdiction to be ascertained in each
case with appropriate regard to the distinct spheres of
activity of State and Nation. The limits of State power
are defined in view of the relation of the States to each
other in the Federal Union. The bond of the Constitution qualifies their jurisdiction. This is the principle
which underlies the decisions cited by respondents. These
decisions established that proper regard for the relation of
the States in our system required that the property under
consideration should be taxed in only one State and that
jurisdiction to tax was restricted accordingly. In Farmers
Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, supra, the Court applied
the principle to intangibles, and referring to the contrary
view which had prevailed, said (p. 209): "The .inevitable
tendency of that view is to disturb good relations among
the States and produce the kind of discontent expected to
subside after establishment of the Union. The Federalist, No. VII. The practical effect of it has been bad;
perhaps two-thirds of the States have endeavored to avoid
the evil by resorting to reciprocal exemption laws." It
was this "rule of immunity from taxation by more than
one State," deducible from the decisions in respect of various and distinct kinds of property, that the Court applied
in FirstNational Bank v. Maine, supra, p. 326.
As pointed out in the opinion in the First National
Bank case, the principle has had a progressive application.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

In Louisville & Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky,
188 U. S. 385, the question related to a ferry franchise
granted by Indiana to a Kentucky corporation, which
Kentucky attempted to tax. Despite the fact that the
tax was laid upon a property right belonging to a domestic
corporation, the Court held that the Fourteenth Amendment precluded the imposition. Id., p. 398. In Union
Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, the
principle was applied to the attempted taxation by Kentucky of tangible personal property which was owned by
a domestic corporation but had a permanent situs in
another State. The Court decided that where tangible
personal property had an actual situs in a particular State,
the power to subject it to state taxation rested exclusively
in that State regardless of the domicile of the owner. By
Frick v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473, the rule became definitely fixed that as to tangible personal property the
power to impose a death transfer tax was solely in the
State where the property had an actual situs, and could
not be exercised by another State where the decedent was
domiciled. See First National Bank v. Maine, supra,
p. 322. The decision in Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v.
Minnesota, supra, overruling Blackstone v. Miller, 188
U. S. 189, cartied forward the principle by applying it to
intangibles. The Court was of the opinion that "the
general reasons declared sufficient to inhibit taxation of
them [tangibles] by two States apply under present circumstances with no less force to intangibles with taxable
situs imposed by due application of the legal fiction.
Primitive conditions have passed; business is now transacted on a national scale. A very large part of the
country's wealth is invested in negotiable securities whose
protection against discrimination, unjust and oppressive
taxation is matter of the greatest moment." 280 U. S.
pp. 211, 212.

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

403

Opinion of the Court.

But it has been as decisively maintained that this principle, thus progressively applied in limiting the jurisdiction of the States to tax, does not restrict the taxing power
of the Federal Government. The distinction was clearly
and definitely made in United States v. Bennett, 232
U. S. 299. The question arose under § 37 of the Tariff
Act of August 5, 1909, 36 Stat. 112, imposing a tax upon
the use of foreign-built yachts, owned or chartered by
citizens of the United States. The levy of the tax with
respect to a yacht owned by a citizen of the United
States, domiciled here, but which was not used within the
jurisdiction of the United States and had its permanent
situs in a foreign country, was resisted under the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The objector invoked the doctrine, already established, which denied to
a State, under the Fourteenth Amendment, jurisdiction
to tax personal property which had a permanent situs in
another State. Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra. Under that doctrine, as we have seen, it
made no difference that the owner of the property was a
citizen of, or domiciled in, the State which attempted
to lay the tax. The argument was pressed that the Federal statute should not be so construed as to apply to
the use of a yacht wholly beyond the territorial limits
of the United States, since if so interpreted it would be
repugnant to the Constitution. But the Court thought
that to apply that rule of interpretation would be to
cause "an imaginary doubt" as to the constitutionality
of the statute, and would render it necessary to give the
statute "a wholly fictitious and unauthorized meaning."
We found nothing "of such gravity in the asserted constitutional question" as to justify departing from the
evident legislative intention. Speaking through Chief
Justice White, and fully recognizing the principle applicable to the taxing power of the States, the Court observed

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

that the argument involved a misapprehension, not as to
what had actually been decided, but "in taking for
granted that because the doct-ine stated has been applied
and enforced in many decisions with respect to the taxing
power of the States, that the same principle is applicable
to and controlling as to the United States in the exercise
of its powers." "The confusion results "-the Court
continued--" from not observing that the rule applied in
the cases relied upon to many forms of exertion of state
taxing power is based on the limitations on state authority to tax resulting from the distribution of powers
ordained by the Constitution. In other words, the whole
argument proceeds upon the mistaken supposition, which
is sometimes indulged in, that the calling into -being of
the government under the Constitution, had the effect of
destroying obvious powers of government instead of preserving and distributing such powers. The application to
the States of the rule of due process relied upon comes
from the fact that their spheres of activity are enforced
and protected by the Constitution and therefore it is impossible for one State to reach out and tax property in
another without violating the Constitution, for where
the power of the one ends the authority of the other begins." " But this," the Court added, "has no application
to the Government of the United States so far as its
admitted taxing power is concerned," for that power
"embraces all the attributes which appertain to sovereignty in the fullest sense. .

.

. Because the limita-

tions of the Constitution are barriers bordering the States
and preventing them from transcending the limits of their
authority and thus destroying the rights of other States
.and at the same time saving their rights from destruction
by -the other States, in other words of maintaining and
preserving the rights of all the States, affords ho ground
for constructing an imaginary constitutional barrier

BURNET v. BROOKS.
378

Opinion of the Court.

around the exterior confines of the United States for the
purpose of shutting that government off from the exertion of powers which inherently belong to it by virtue of
its sovereignty." Id., pp. 305, 306.
This distinction between the limitations of state jurisdiction to tax and the broad authority of the Federal
Government, was restated and applied in Cook v. Tait,
265 U. S.47, 55, 56, and was again explicitly recognized
in Frick v. Pennsylvania, supra, p. 491.
The distinction cannot be regarded as limited to tangible property. It has equal application to intangibles. It
does not rest upon the question whether the property
is of the one sort oy the other, but upon the fact that the
limitation of state jurisdiction to tax does not establish
the limitation of federal jurisdiction to tax. If the Federal Government may rest its jurisdiction to lay its tax
upon the fact of the citizenship and domicile in this
country of the owner of tangible property, wherever that
property may be situated, although the State may not
impose a like tax with respect to property having a permanent location outside the State, the Federal Government
cannot be regarded as restrained in its power to tax securities owned by a nonresident, but physically in this country, merely because the State is debarred from laying
such a tax with respect to a nonresident of the State.
The decisive point is that the criterion of state taxing
power by virtue of the relation of the States to each other
under the Constitution is not the criterion of the taxing
power of the United States by virtue of its sovereignty
in relation to the property of nonresidents. The Constitution creates no such relation between the United States
and foreign countries as it creates between the States
themselves.
Accordingly, in what has been said, we in no way limit
the authority of our decisions as to state power. We

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

determine national power in relation to other countries
and their subjects by applying the principles of jurisdiction recognized in international relations. Applying those
principles we cannot doubt that the Congress had the
power to enact the statute, as we have construed and
applied it to the property in question. The securities
should be included in the gross estate of the decedent;
the inclusion of the balance of the cash deposit will depend, under the statute, upon the finding to be made with
respect to the nature of the business of the concern with
which the deposit was made.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER is of opinion that the statute does
not extend to the transfer of the foreign or other securities effected by the death of decedent, Ernest Augustus
Brooks, a British subject resident of and dying in Cuba,
and that the conclusions of the Board of Tax Appeals and
Circuit Court of Appeals are right and should be affirmed.
BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. S. & L. BUILDING CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 475.

Argued February 10, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

Under § 212 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1924, where real estate is
sold on the instalment plan and the initial payments do not
exceed one-fourth of the purchase price, the vendor is permitted,
under regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner with the
approval of the Secretary, to return as income in any taxable year
that proportion of the instalment payments "actually received" in
that year which the total profit realized, or to be realized when the
payment is completed, bears to the total "contract price." Held:

