OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

265 U. S. 526, 532; R. Guastavino Co. v. Comerma, 184
Fed. 549; Warshawsky & Co. v. A. Warshawsky & Co.,
257 Ill. App. 571, 584 et seq. This is a matter which the
commission has not considered but which, as the body
having primary jurisdiction, it should, in the first instance,
consider and determine. And in doing so it will be
enough if each respondent be required by modified order
to accompany each use of the name or names with an
explicit representation that respondent is not a grinder
of the grain from which the flour prepared and put out is
made, such representation to be fixed as to form and manner by the commission, upon consideration of the present
record and any further evidence which it may conclude to
take. In respect of other particulars, the orders of the
commission are sustained.
The decree below, therefore, will be reversed, and the
proceeding remanded to the circuit court of appeals to
be disposed of in conformity with this opinion.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

are of opinion that the decree below should be affirmed.
ANGLO-CHILEAN NITRATE SALES CORP. v.
ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 377. Argued January 19, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. A foreign corporation whose sole business in a State consists in
landing, storing and selling in the original packages goods imported
by it from abroad, can not constitutionally be subjected by the
State to an annual "franchise" tax on the doing of such business,
measured by the value of the goods on hand. Pp. 22f, 229.
2. The tax is repugnant to both the imports clause and the commerce clause of the Constitution. P. 225.

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

219

Argument for Appellee.

3. The tax under Alabama Gen. Laws, 1917, No. 163, § 54, as construed by the supreme court of the State, is a tax on the doing
of business, as distinguished from a tax on the authorization,
right or privilege to do business, and is invalid, under the abovestated principle, as applied to the facts of this case. P. 223.
4. The fact that the foreign corporation qualified to do business in
Alabama does not sustain the tax. P. 224.
5. The power of a State to withhold from a foreign corporation
permission to exercise its franchise to do business therein does not
enable it, when granting the privilege, to burden by taxation the
foreign commerce carried on by the corporation within the State.

P. 228.
225 Ala. 141; 142 So. 87, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a tax assessment,
and reversing a judgment to the contrary, in a suit by the
Nitrate Company to set the tax aside.
Mr. R. Worth Vaughan, with whom Mr. Elihu Root, Jr.,
was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Thomas E. Knight, Jr., Attorney General of
Alabama, and FrontisH. Moore, Assistant Attorney General, for appellee.
The appellant was engaged in business in Alabama as
a corporation, and as such was liable for the corporate
franchise tax levied on all foreign corporations doing
local business. Ala. Const., 1901, § 232; Ala. Acts, 1927,
p. 176, § 54; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 160 Ala. 396; 216
-U. S. 400; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. State, 201 Ala. 317;
248 U. S. 533; Kansas City, M. & B. R. Co. v. Stiles, 182
Ala. 138; 242 U. S. 111.
Whether the capital be invested in property otherwise
exempt from taxation is immaterial, for the reason that
the tax is not imposed upon property, but for the privilege of exercising the franchise granted by the State.
Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; Horn
Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305; People
ex rel. Commercial, Cable Co. v. Morgan, 67 L. R. A.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

962; New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658; Educational
Films Co. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107.
Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,268 U. S.
203, is distinguishable because the tax was measured by
and dependent on the operations of the company, all of
which were admittedly interstate, while in the present case
only the property in the State is used as a measurement,
and the tax is not affected by the amount or character of
appellant's operations.
Ozark Pipe Line v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, presents the
extreme position taken by this Court. In that case the
privilege taxed was the right to do business. The holding of the Supreme Court of Missouri (282 Mo. 213) appears to have been of influence with this Court in determining the nature of the tax; and that together with the
fact that the license or permit issued was to engage "exclusively in the business of transporting crude petroleum
by pipe line," indicates at least that the Court considered
this tax as a business tax rather than one purely on the
corporate franchise. We submit that the dissent in the
Monier case, expresses the correct rule applicable in the
present case.
The decision in the Roberts case, 171 U. S. 658, where
the facts and the statute are almost identical with those
now presented, should not be overturned. The principle
there declared and reaffirmed in Armour & Co. v. Virginia,
246 U. S. 1, supported by the Educational Films Co. case,
and enunciated by Mr. Justice Brandeis's dissent in the
Monier case, control the present one.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered

the opinion of the Court.

Appellant is a New York corporation having its principal office in that State. October 10, 1927, it qualified
to do business in Alabama, and March 14, 1930, made and
sent to the state tax commission a return showing that its

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

221

Opinion of the Court.

only property in Alabama on December 31, 1929, the date
as of which the statute required the statement to be made,
was 33,455,763 pounds of nitrate of soda which had
been imported by it from Chile into Alabama and stored
in the original packages, the book value of which was
$712,846.72. March 31, 1930, the commission.under § 54
of No. 163, General Acts, 1927,1 assessed against appellant
for that year a franchise tax of $1,425.69, being at the
rate of two dollars on each one thousand dollars of the
value so reported.
Conformably to state practice appellant appealed to the
circuit court of Montgomery county. The case was submitted on an agreed statement of facts the abridged substance of which follows:
From the date of its qualification in Alabama to the
time of the assessment, appellant was engaged in the business of importing nitrate through the port of Mobile and
-other ports. The nitrate, in bags containing about 100
pounds each, was brought into Mobile and there stored
'Section 54 of Act No. 163, Alabama General Acts, 1927, p. 176,
provides:
"That every corporation organized under the laws of any other
state, nation, or territory, and doing business in this State, except
strictly benevolent, educational or religious corporations, shall pay
annually to the State an annual franchise tax of Two Dollars (S2.00)
on each One Thousand Dollars of the actual amount of capital employed in this State. In ascertaining the annual franchise tax which
shall be paid by any foreign corporation doing business in this State
under this section, there shall be deducted from the amount of the
capital employed by such corporation in this State the aggregate
amount of loans of money made by such corporation in this State,
and which shall be secured by existing mortgage or mortgages to it
on real estate -inthis State, and upon which mortgages there shall
have been paid the recording privilege tax provided by law."
For the derivation of this.section see: § 16 of Act No. 464, General Acts, 1915, p. 397. § 16 of Act No. 328, General Acts, 1919, p.
291. § 11 of Act No. 172, General Acts, 1923, p. 164, as amended by
Act No. 263, General Acts, 1923, p. 267.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

by appellant in a public warehouse and kept in the original
packages until sold and delivered to the ultimate consumers. All was sold upon orders through a salesman
who, paying his own expenses, was compensated by commissions on his sales. The orders were taken subject to
approval and were not effective until approved by appellant in its New York office. When so accepted, directions
were given that the nitrate be forwarded to the customers.
These directions were given to and carried out by the
Walsh Stevedoring Company at Mobile, an independent
contractor, having an arrangement with appellant to
handle its importations of nitrate, store it in a public
warehouse and forward it as directed.
All transactions were for cash. The customers received
the nitrate only upon payment of the purchase price when
they took up the shipping documents through a bank of
collection by paying the drafts attached. Such payments
were sent to the Merchants National Bank at Mobile and
by it immediately transferred to appellant in New York.
Appellant had no bank account in Alabama and paid all
expenses there by remittances from New York. On the
date as of which appellant's return was made -it had no
accounts or bills receivable in Alabama and had no money
there at any time except during the brief intervals that the
funds were being so transmitted. It did not have or employ any capital in that State unless the importation
through the port of Mobile, the storage and sale, of nitrate
in the manner above described, constitutes capital and its
employment there.
Section 54, under which the assessment was made, declares that every corporation organized under the laws of
any other State and doing business in Alabama shall pay
to the State an annual franchise tax of two dollars on each
thousand dollars of the actual amount of capital employed
therein. Appellant maintained below and here insists
that the section, construed to impose the tax in question,

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

223

Opinion of the Court.

is repugnant to the declarations of the federal Constitution: "No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Impbrts or Exports,.
except what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's
inspection Laws," Art. I, § 10, cl. 2, and "The Congress
shall have Power . . . To regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several States . . . "Art.
I, § 8.
The Alabama statute in question was enacted in pursuance of § 232 of the state constitution which declares:
No foreign corporation shall do any business in the State
without having a place of business and an authorized
agent therein and without filing with the secretary of
state a certified copy of its articles of incorporation.
"The legislature shall, by general law, provide for the
payment to the State of Alabama of a franchise tax by
such corporation, but such franchise tax shall be based
on the actual amount of capital employed in this State."
As to the meaning and purpose of the statute, we are
governed by the construction put upon it by the state
supreme court.
Its decisions clearly show that the exaction is laid, not
upon the authorization, right or privilege to do business
in Alabama, but upon the actual doing of business.
While the case at bar was pending on appeal there, the
state supreme court in State v. National Cash Credit
Assn., 224 Ala. 629, 632; 141 So. 541, held that the mere
investment in or ownership of property in the State by
a foreign corporation does not subject it to the franchise
tax. Adverting to the language of the statute, it declared
that the " property must be employed in a corporate business done in this state." On rehearing, May 19, 1932,
and after its decision in the case before us, that court
said: "We merely hold a franchise tax to be what it purports to be, a tax upon the exercise or use of its franchise
in Alabama for the purposes of such franchise; and that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

if no corporate activity is conducted in Alabama during
the period covered by the tax, the corporation does not
owe a franchise tax."
And in the case at bar the court said: "The defendant duly qualified as a foreign corporation to do business
in this state, appointed a resident agent, and that it
actually engaged in business in Alabama by selling its
nitrate through a salesman both within and -without the
state appears as an uncontroverted fact. It seeks to be
relieved from this franchise tax solely upon the theory
the imported nitrate, the sale of which constituted its
business, was immune from state taxation. . . . The
statute here under review has no reference to imports,
but is merely of a general character relating to the fixation of the amount of a franchise tax upon foreign corporations doing business in this state." And, after referring to the manner of appellant's acceptance of orders
and the collections and remittances, the court said:
"These details go to show the corporation was actually
engaged in business in this state . . . " As appellant did
no local business in the State, that decision plainly rests
upon the assumption that Alabama had power to tax
appellant's sales in original packages of the nitrate it
imported into that State only for sale and that such sales
constituted a business that is taxable under § 54. The
Alabama statute is unlike that of Michigan examined
here in Detroit International Bridge Co. v. Michigan,
287 U. S. 295, and Michigan v. Michigan Trust Co., 286
U. S. 334, 342. There the tax upon a domestic corporation was imposed for the mere right to transact business.
The fact that appellant qualified to do business in
Alabama was not, and rightly cannot be, held to sustain
the tax. In Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S.
555, we condenmed as repugnant to the commerce clause
a Missouri statute that required every foreign corporation engaged in business in that State to pay an annual
franchise tax upon the privilege or right to do business.

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

225

Opinion of the Court.

The company's business there consisted in the operation
of a pipe line for interstate transportation of oil and in
the ownership of property, the keeping of its principal
office, purchase of supplies, employment of labor, maintenance and operation of telephone and telegraph lines all
in furtherance of such interstate commerce and constituting the means and instruments by which it was conducted. We held that the tax could not be constitutionally exacted, and that the facts that the foreign corporation was organized for local business and had applied for
and received a local license conferring the power of eminent domain did not enable the State to tax its right to
carry on interstate commerce. We said (p. 567): "The
state has no such power even in the case of domestic corporations. See PhiladelphiaS. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S.326, 342."
The question whether, consistently with the imports
and commerce clauses, the Alabama statute may be construed to require appellant to pay the specified franchise
tax is dual in form but single in substance, for, upon the
facts of this case, it is clear that if the exaction isa tax
on imports it necessarily burdens foreign commerce.
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S. 292, 295.
The stipulation of the parties shows that the only transactions in Alabama in which appellant is concerned are
the landing, storage and sale of the nitrate in the form
and packages in which it was put up abroad and transported into the United States. The bags were kept intact,
no nitrate was removed therefrom and, prior to the delivery of the same to those who bought from appellant,
it was not in any manner commingled with, and did not
become a part of, the general mass of property within
the State. The right to import the nitrate included the
right to sell it in the original bags while it remained the
property of appellant and before it lost its distinctive
character as an import. State prohibition of such sales

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

would take from appellant the very rights in respect of
importation that are conferred by the Constitution and
laws of the United States. Alabama was powerless, without the consent of Congress, to tax the nitrate before such
sales or to require appellant by the payment of occupation or franchise tax or otherwise to purchase from it the
privilege of selling goods so imported and handled.
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 436, 442-444. In
that case a state license fee imposed on an importer selling imported goods in the original bales or packages was
condemned as repugnant to the imports and commerce
clauses. Chief Justice Marshall said (p. 444): "All must
perceive, that a tax on the sale of an article, imported only
for sale, is a tax on the article itself. . . . A tax on the
occupation of an importer is . . . a tax on importation.
It must add to the price of the article, and be paid by the
consumer, or by the importer himself, in like manner as
a direct duty on the article itself would be made. This
the State has not a right to do, because it is prohibited
by the constitution."
In Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, the court held
offensive to the same provisions a tax on the amount of
the sales of imported goods in the original packages made
by an auctioneer for the importer. In May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496, the court (p. 507) formally reaffirmed
and succinctly stated the propositions established in
Brown v. Maryland, but held that the city tax there involved did not violate the imports or commerce clause because the imported goods were not sold in the original
package.' And recently in Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S.
216, we said (p. 228): "When the Constitution prohibits
States from laying duties on imports, the prohibition not
'Cf. Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343, 359. Cook v. Marshall
County, 196 U. S. 261, 270. Kirmeyer v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 568, 573.
Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446, 454. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S.
297, 304.

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

227

Opinion of the Court.

only extends to a tax upon the act of importing, but also
to one upon the occupation of the importer or upon the
articles imported. A tax on the sale of an article, imported
only for sale, is a tax on the article itself. Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444." And see Almy v. California, 24 How. 169. Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S.
283. Selliger v. Kentucky, 213 U. S. 200. United States
v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1. Thames & Mersey Ins. Co. v.
United States, 237 U. S. 19. Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra. Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506,
509. The constitutional protection extends to corporations as well as to individuals. Crutcher v. Kentucky,
141 U. S. 47, 57. International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91, 108.
In support of its conclusion the state court cited and
appellee relies upon New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658.
The question for decision in the case now before us was
not involved, presented or decided there. The statute of
New York considered there imposed a tax on the business
or franchise of domestic and foreign corporations except,
among others, those.wholly engaged in carrying on manufacture in the State. The taxpayer, Parke, Davis & Company, was a Michigan corporation. It had its factory in
Detroit and a warehouse and depot in New York. It had
a manager and over 50 employees there. It did local business and also sold in original packages goods received
from its factory and goods imported for it from foreign
countries. The tax rate was graded by the statute according to dividends (presumably paid out of net earnings). Cf. U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321.
The tax base was the amount of capital employed within
the State and the comptroller fixed that amount at $90,000. The corporation, seeking to have the assessment set
aside, took the case to the state supreme court. It sustained the assessment against the contention that the
statute as construed by the comptroller was repugnant to

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

the privileges and immunities clause, Art. IV, § 2, and
held that the business was "not interstate commerce,
which will prevent the corporation carrying it on from
being taxed, . . ." 91 Hun 158, 162; 36 N. Y. S. 368.
No other federal question was considered. The court of
appeals affirmed without opinion. In this court the corporation's principal insistence was that the statute was
repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment in that it exempted domestic corporations
manufacturing and selling in New York while imposing
upon the Michigan corporation a discriminatory tax for
selling in New York in original packages products manufactured in its Detroit factory. The court overruled that
contention. The opinion shows that as to the amount
of its capital employed in New York no federal question
was presented. And, as admittedly the corporation did
a local business in that State, i. e., business not included
in interstate or foreign commerce (171 U. S. 659; 91 Hun
160; 36 N. Y. S. 368), that case is essentially different
from this one.
The decisions here since New York v. Roberts, supra,
definitely show that the power of the State to withhold
from a foreign corporation permission to exercise its franchise to do business therein does not enable it, when
granting the privilege, to burden by taxation interstate
commerce carried on by such corporation within the State.
And quite recently in Fidelity &f,
Deposit Co. v. Tafoya,
270 U. S.426, we said (p. 434): "Thus the right to exclude a foreign corporation cannot be used to prevent it
from resorting to a federal court, Terral v. Burke Construction Co., 257 U. S. 529; or to tax it upon property
that by established principles the State has no power to
tax, Western tUnion Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1,
and other cases in the same volume and later that have
followed it; or to interfeFe with interstate commerce,
Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 203; Looney

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

229

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, 188. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster,247 U. S. 105, 114." See Ozark Pipe
Line v. Monier, supra. Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S. 203. Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad
Comm'n, 271 U. S. 583, 593, et seq. Sprout v. South
Bend, 277 U. S&163, 170-171. New Jersey Tel. Co. v.
Tax Board, 280 U. S. 338, 346. East Ohio Gas Co. v.
Tax Comm'n, 283 U. S.465, 470.
It follows that the Alabama statute, construed to impose a tax upon appellant for selling in that State in the
original packages the nitrate imported by it from Chile, is
repugnant to the imports and commerce clauses above
quoted. And, as it did no other business in that State, it
is not liable for any' part of the tax that the state commission assessed against it.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO, dissenting.
This case does not present the question that would be
here if the appellant had not sought for and obtained a
privilege or franchise to do a local business in the state
of Alabama. There is nothing in the Alabama decisions,
and little in her statutes, to indicate that the tax would
have been sustained in the absence of such a grant, or
that there would have been even an attempt to levy it.
Ewart Lumber Co. v. American Cement Co., 9 Ala. App.
152, 156; 62 So. 560; Citizens National Bank v. Buckheit,
14 Ala. App. 511, 517, 519; 71 So. 82; Tyson v. Jennings
Produce Co., 16 Ala. App. 374, 375; 77 So. 986; Ware v.
Hamilton Brown Shoe Co., 92 Ala. 145, 149; 9 So. 136;
Cook v. Rome Brick Co., 98 Ala. 409, 413; 12 So. 918;
Stratford v. City Council of Montgomery, 110 Ala. 619;
20 So. 127; Alabama Code of 1928, § 7217, limiting the
application of §§ 7209 to 7220. Indeed the Attorney
General informed us on the argument that this would
have been the position of his department of the Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARDozo,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

ment, charged, as it is, with the collection of the revenues
of the state. Alabama has said by her courts that it is
beyond the power of the legislature to restrict by conditions the exercise or enjoyment of a privilege that has its
origin and sanction in the constitution of the nation. See
cases supra. Alabama has said by her statutes (Code,
§ 7217), that the permits and franchise taxes exacted of
foreign corporations by article 26 of the Alabama Code
do not apply to corporations "engaging in or transacting
business of interstate commerce only," if the privilege
they ask for is that and nothing more. The act now in
question (§ 54 of Act No. 163, approved July 22, 1927,
Alabama General Acts, 1927, p. 176) was passed in fulfilment of a mandate laid upon the legislature by § 232
of the Alabama Constitution. By that section it is provided that no foreign corporation shall do business in that
state "without having at least one known place of business and an authorized agent or agents therein, and without filing with the secretary of state a certified copy of its
articles of incorporation or association." By the same
section: "the legislature shall, by general law, provide
for the payment to the State of Alabama of a franchise tax
by such corporation, but such franchise tax shall be based
upon the actual amount of capital employed in this state."
It is this section that the courts of Alabama have adjudged
to be inapplicable to interstate business. See cases supra.
If that is the construction to be given to the command
whereby the legislature was to establish a franchise tax
and measure it in a certain way, there can be no doubt
that the same construction must be given to the statute
passed thereafter to give effect to the command. The
power abjured in one breath was not exerted in the next.
With this approach to the problem, the pathway is
made open. When the legislature of Alabama said in
1927 that an annual tax was imposed upon the fran-

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

CARDOZO,

231

J., dissenting.

chise of every foreign corporation, it meant to lay the
burden upon those franchises and those only which there
was power in Alabama to grant or to withhold. If the
corporation was there by virtue of a dual right, the one
created by the state, and no other, was to be subjected
to the charge. The presumption of that intention is
hardly to be escaped in view of past disclaimers of a purpose more pretentious. True there is another section of
the same act whereby a written permit is exacted for
"the purpose of registration and to prevent the duplication of names and in order to secure for the public
record, for taxation, and for other purposes, the names
and addresses of the corporation," and its officers (Act.
No. 163, § 42). True also that for such a permit there
is to be paid an annual tax varying from $5, the minimum, to $100, the maximum. The statute provides,
however, that the tax imposed by that section shall be
"in addition to other license or privilege taxes required
'to be paid by law." There is thus a tax in the nature
of a fee to be paid in instalments as compensation for
the permit, and another tax, measured by the capital in
use within the state, upon the underlying franchise. The
fee for the permit does not rebut the inference that there
is not to be a tax upon the franchise unless user is a
privilege that issues from the state. Doubt, if there is
any, will be resolved in favor of the construction that
keeps the act alive.
The appellant was not satisfied to stand upon its federal right, though the state had made it plain that the
claim of right would be respected. It was seeking something more, the privilege of going over the line that
marks the federal immunity; and to that end it asked
for and obtained a license or franchise, the name is unimportant, to do a local business as well as one related to
interstate or foreign commerce. By the grant thus pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARwozo, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

cured, it became free, at its unfettered will, to sell at
wholesale or at retail, in the original packages or in others,
unhampered by the restrictions that would have limited
its capacity if it had been there as an importer and with
the powers of an importer only. This franchise or privilege, this grant of benefits beyond any conferred by the
federal constitution, the state of Alabama was competent
to tax. Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; Ashley v. Ryan, 153'U. S. 436, 440; Kansas City, F. S. & M.
Ry. Co. v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227; Lusk v. Botkin, 240 U. S.
236; St.Louis, S. W. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350;
Kansas City, M. & B. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111, 117;
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; EducationalFilms
Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379; Pacific Co. v. Johnson, 285
U. S. 480, 489; Detroit InternationalBridge Co. v. Corp.
Tax Appeal Board, 287 U. S. 295. There being competence
to tax, there was competence to measure the burden of
the payment by capital employed, irrespective of the use
to which employment is directed. Educational Films
Corp. v. Ward, supra; Pacific Co. v. Johnson, supra; Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., supra; Home Ins. Co. v. New York,
supra. There may be a wrong to the taxpayer if the
standard of measurement is oppressive and unreasonable.
Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. There is none
where the standard bears a fair and natural relation, in
its normal or average workings, to the privilege conferred.
The argument is made, however, that the tax though
declared by the express terms of the statute to be a tax
upon the "franchise," is confined to corporations "doing
business" in Alabama, and hence is to be viewed as a tax
upon the kind of business actually conducted, and not
upon the franchise to conduct it in that or other ways.
More than once a like argument directed to statutes
phrased in the same way has been urged upon this court,
only to be rejected as unsound. Home Life Ins. Co. v.
New York, supra; St. Louis, S. W. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas,

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

233

CARnozo, J., dissenting.

supra; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Alabama, 248 U. S. 533;
201 Ala. 317; 78 So. 93 (involving a statute of Alabama
similar to this one); Kansas City, M. & B. R. Co. v. Stiles,
242 U. S.111, affirming 182 Ala. 138; 62 So. 734; Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 145, 146. Thus, in Home
Life Ins. Co. v. N. Y., supra,a statute provided.that every
corporation then or thereafter incorporated under any law
of the state or of any other state or country, " and doing
business in the state," should be subject to a tax "upon
its corporate franchise or business," measured by its dividends. The court held that the tax was one upon the
privilege" of doing business in a corporate capacity," and
not upon the business or activities that were the outcome
of the privilege. Cf. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, pp.
145, 146; Michigan v. Michigan Trust Co., 286 U. S.334,
Detroit International Bridge Co. v. Corp. Tax Appeal
Board, supra. There would be greater force in the appellant's argument if its construction of the tax as one upon
the activity or the business had support in anything decided
by the courts of Alabama. To the contrary, the highest
court of the state has put that meaning aside by its
opinion in this very case. Adopting the reasoning of this
court in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, it has said that
"the tax is an excise upon the particular privilege of
doing business in a corporate capacity, and with the advantages derived therefrom. State v. Anglo-Chilean
Nitrate Sales Corp., 142 So. 87, 91; cf. Louisville & N. R.
Co. v. State, 201 Ala. 317, 318; 78 So. 93; Ellis v. Handley
Mfg. Co., 214 Ala. 539; 108 So. 343; Kansas City, M. &
B. R. Co. v. Stiles, 182 Ala. 138; 62 So. 734. True
indeed it is that the corporation will be relieved of the
burden if no business is transacted and no capital employed (State v. National Cash Credit Ass'n, 224 Ala. 629;
141 So. 541), but so was the corporation in the Home Life
Insurance case, and so also were the corporations in many
other cases. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., St. Louis, S. W.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARwozo, J., dissenting.

288 US.

Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Alabama,
Kansas City, M. & B. R. R. Co. v. Stiles, supra. If the
state has conferred a privilege which it is competent to
tax, the competence is not lost, and the validity of the tax
destroyed, because the privilege is to be free when the
corporation is inactive. There is a requirement in the
Alabama constitution, repeated in the statute, that the
tax upon the franchise shall be measured by the capital
employed within the state, a measure obviously inapplicable to dormant corporations. In such circumstances,
activity is an event that conditions liability, but the
privilege, not the event, is still the subject of the burden.
To resume the matter in a few words: the tax is not imposed upon those capacities and privileges that emanate
by implication from the power of the nation. The tax
is laid upon those privileges, and those only, that emanate
either expressly or by implication from the power of the
state. Business, it is true, must have been done, for without the doing of business there can be no capital employed.
Even so, capital and business are by-products and incidents, like dividends or income. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.
They are the yardstick by which the state measures the
value of the privilege. They are not the privilege itself.
The argument is made that "capital employed" is an
illegal and arbitrary measure because the appellant has
made no use of the taxable franchise emanating from the
state, but has confined its activities to interstate or foreign commerce. What has been said in recent cases
(EducationalFilms Corp. v. Ward, supra, and Pacific Co.
v. Johnson, supra), goes far to give the answer. There
was no attempt here as there was in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, supra, or in Looney v. Crane Co.,
245 U. S. 178, or in InternationalPaper Co. v. Massachu-

setts, 246 U. S. 135, or in other cases of that type, to burden a local privilege in close association with one not local
by a levy upon values beyond the confines of the state.

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

235

CAmuozo, J., dissenting.

Cf. Kansas City M. & B. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111, 119;
Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts,231 U. S. 68; Wallace
v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Hinkle, 278
U. S. 460; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, supra, at
p. 391. The measure here was capital employed in Alabama (St. Louis, S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas, supra; Louisville
& N. R. Co. v. Alabama, supra); and it was a mere fortuity that in this instance the capital was made up of
imports still-intact. Moreover, what was done under the
franchise one day might not be done under it the next.
Another franchise tax would not be owing for a year. In
the meantime the appellant might transact its business
as it pleased. If some of its sales, however few and
trifling, had been made in broken packages, there would
be no denial by any one that the privilege of making them
would be subject to taxation by one measure or another.
This court has never held that the measure in such circumstances would be arbitrary and unlawful because
determined by the value of all the local capital, and not
merely the proportion necessary for sales in broken lots.
In principle the situation would then be governed by the
ruling in Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290,
and Western Cartridge Co. v. Emmerson, 281 U. S. 511,
where an apportionment very similar had the approval
of this court. Especially must the standard hold when.
the statute is directed against foreign corporations generally, and not particularly against such of them as are engaged in interstate or foreign commerce. If the standard
is a valid one when the privilege is used, it does not cease
to be valid because user is abandoned or postponed.
Very likely the statute might have been read in a different way. It might have been read as imposing two conditions, first that business should have been done, and
second that what was done could be attributed, at least
in part, to the actual exercise of the privileges granted
by the state. As to such matters of construction the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARwozo, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

courts of the state may speak the final word. All that
concerns us here is capacity or power. Here was no
covert effort by the state to extend its taxing jurisdiction
into an area denied to it. The burden upon interstate
business in Western Union v. Kansas and the other cases
cited, was an outcome inherent in the statutory scheme;
it was the very event intended. The burden here, if
there was any, was unforeseen and adventitious. Cf.
Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; Kansas City, M. & B.
R. Co. v. Stiles, supra.
None of the decisions cited by the appellant controls
the case at hand.
Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, is invoked with special confidence. There are obvious distinctions. The statute of Missouri there held to be invalid
in its application to a corporation engaged in interstate
commerce was very similar in form to the statute of Alabama in controversy here. The conduct of the aggrieved
corporation was, however, very different. Its business was
the operation of a pipe line from oil wells in Oklahoma
passing through Missouri to a destination in Illinois.
Nothing was done in Missouri, or so the court interpreted
the evidence, except in furtherance of transportation. Oil
was neither received nor delivered in that state. In these
circumstances the corporation asked for and obtained
from Missouri a license-to "engage exclusively in the business of transporting crude petroleum by pipe line." 266
U. S. at pp. 561, 567. This, however, was the very business that was incidental to the federal right. The privilege to transport upon the interstate journey was an essential incident of commerce, and so an emanation from
the federal power. The court did not hold that the tax
would have been unlawful if laid upon a franchise emanating from the power of the state. The court condemned the

ANGLO-CHILEAN CORP. v. ALABAMA.
218

237

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

tax for the reason that it read the statute as designed to lay
a burden on the franchise to do business as an interstate
carrier. The imputation of that design was borne out in a
measure by the remedy, for the state had brought a suit
not only to impress a lien upon the property, but to revoke the license altogether (p. 561), limited though it
was. Cf. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain.,
254 U. S. 113, 119; Southern Ry.Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S.
519, 530. If there had been decisions in Missouri, as there
are in Alabama, disclaiming a purpose to affect the federal privilege, and if the state and federal privileges had
varied substantially from each other in meaning and in
function, the parallel would be closer between the Ozark
case and this. But if those conditions had been present,
the result must have been changed.
Other cases, emphasized in the briefs, are still more
faintly applicable.
Crew-Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S. 292., brought
before us a tax upon the business of foreign commerce,
whether conducted by natural persons or by corporations.
Its measure was the gross receipts. "It bears no semblance of a property tax or a franchise tax in the proper
sense; nor is it an occupation tax except as it is imposed
upon the very carrying on of the business of exporting
merchandise." 245 U. S. 297. Cf. Phila. & Sou. S. S. Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326. The conclusion would
have been different if net income, and not gross, had been
adopted as the measure. U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek,
247 U. S. 321, 328; Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165;
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 52. The case has no relation to the validity of a tax to. be measured by local
capital and imposed upon a privilege.
Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S.
203, dealt with a statute of Massachusetts, different in

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS

and STONE, JJ., disent.

288 U.S.

form from this, and interpreted as one laid directly upon
the operations of the business. Cf. Gloucester Ferry Co,
v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196. No license or franchise
to engage in a local business had been granted by the
state.
Broum v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, was a case of a discriminatory tax upon the business of importers, and Cook
v. Pennsylvania,97 U. S. 566, a case of a discriminatory
tax upon an auctioneer selling for importers. In neither
was there a franchise, or a tax upon a franchise, or a reference to capital as a standard of measurement. In each
the presence of imported packages to be subjected to a
burden was an event considered and intended, not an adventitious circumstance developing unexpectedly in the
application of the tax to one taxpayer out of many.
The tax imposed by this statute does not discriminate
between domestic and foreign corporations to the prejudice of the latter. Domestic corporations pay a franchise
tax that is measured by their whole capital; foreign corporations one that is measured by "the actual amount of
capital employed" within the state. It does not discriminate between foreign corporations engaged in interstate
or foreign commerce and other foreign corporations. It
lays a burden on all impartially. Finally, it is not oppressive in amount, nor framed in such a form as to suggest a furtive purpose to stifle activities not covered by
its terms. The tax is $2 per thousand dollars until 1932,
and $1 per thousand afterwards. General Acts of AIabama, 1927, § 56, p. 177.
The appellant is in the enjoyment of a privilege of
value which it solicited and received from the state of
Alabama, and for that privilege it should pay.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

.his dissent.

and MR. JUSTCE STONE join in

