NEW YORK v. IRVING TRUST CO.

.320

Opinion of the Court.

NEW YORK v. IRVING TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORAMI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 304. Argued January 13, 1933.-Decided February 13, 1933.
1. The provision of the Bankruptcy Act (ยง 57) that claims shall not
be proved after six months from adjudication, does not apply to
the United States or the States, since they are not mentioned.
P. 331.
2. The Federal Government possesses supreme power in respect of
bankruptcies. If a State desires to participate in the assets of a
bankrupt, she must submit to appropriate limitations on the time
for presenting claims. P. 333.
3. The court of bankruptcy made an order that claims not filed
within sixty days after service of the order should be barred. The
State, after service, allowed the time to expire and then filed notice
of a possible demand for taxes, stating that a definite claim would
be presented when necessary reports, etc., could be obtained.
Held that the District Court had power to expunge the notice.
58 F. (2d) 980, 981, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S.587, to review a judgment affirming, with modification, an order expunging a notice of future claim, filed out of time by the State, in a bankruptcy
proceeding.

Mr. Robert P. Beyer, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett,
Jr., Attorney General of New York, was on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. S. John Block for respondent.
MR.JUSTICE MCREY.NOLDS delivered the
Court.

opinion of the,

The Experimenter Publishing Company was adjudged
bankrupt March 6, 1929. The Irving Trust Company be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

came trustee. Upon its petition the referee, July 1, 1929,
directed that "proof of any and all claims which the
State of New York may have against the estate of the
above named bankrupt," shall be filed within sixty days
after service of this order; otherwise, they shall be forever
barred. Proper servicewas had July 18, 1929.
October 20, 1929, the State filed notice of a possible
demand for additional franchise taxes for 1917 to 1928 and
stated that definite claim therefor would be presented
when necessary reports, etc., could be obtained. No
further proof has followed.
March 30, 1931, the trustee asked and obtained a referee order striking from his files the notice of Octtber
20th. He held that the claim for taxes "cannot be filed
after the expiration of the bar order date" and declared
"The State has only itself to blame for the situation it
finds itself in as the record ind'cates that facts were within
its knowledge upon which it could have filed this claim
prior to September 16, 1929." The District Court approved this action and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed its judgment, "but without prejudice to an application by the people of the State of New York presenting an actual claim which can be audited and showing
lawful reasons why it should be paid, at which time the
tr,4stee may contest the right of payment." 58 F. (2d)
980, 981.
The only question properly presented by the application
for certiorari is whether the District Court had power to
grant the motion to expunge. Petitioners claim that such
power is incompatible with state sovereignty as defined
in Marshall v. New York, 254 U. S. 380.
Nothing adjudged below conflicts with anything said
in Marshall v. New York. There we recognized the prior
right of the State to be paid license taxes, unsecured by
specific lien, from the assets of an insolvent 'estate. Here,
no such question is presented.

NEW YORK v. IRVING TRUST CO.
329

Opinion of the Court.

The bar order against the State, as finally modified, may
be revoked upon proper showing until termination of the
cause--it remains within control of the court. See United
States v. Elliott, 57 F. (2d) 843. And if the District Court
has power to make any such order against a State, this
one seems appropriate to the circumstances.
An ill-digested brief for the State beclouds its present
position. But we consider only the point relied upon in
the petition for certiorari, and that is without merit.
The Federal Constitution clothes the Congress with
power to establish uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies.
The extant Bankruptcy Act-ยง 2--declares the United
States District Courts shall be courts of bankruptcy and
undertakes to give them jurisdiction to adjudge persons
bankrupt; to allow or disallow claims; to take charge of
the property of bankrupts; to cause their estates to be
collected, reduced to money and distributed; to determine
controversies in relation thereto; to close estates when
fully administered; and make such general orders as may
be necessary for enforcement of the Act. Section 64 requires payment of taxes due to the United States, state,
county, district or municipality in advance of dividends to
creditors. Section 57, (n), provides that claims shall not
be proved after six months subsequent to adjudication.
Act May 27, 1926, c. 406, ยง 13, 44 Stat. 666.
It is admitted here, that as the United States and the
States are not mentioned in the limitation of ยง 57, they are
not bound thereby. The consequent necessity for bar
orders is apparent. Otherwise, estates could not be
promptly closed. Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618;
United States v. Thompson, 98 U. S. 486, 490; New Jersey
v. Anderson, 203 U. S. 483; Guarantee Title Co. v. Title
Guaranty Co., 224 U. S. 152; United States v. Birmingham Trust & Savings Bank, 258 Fed. 562; Villere v. United
States, 18 F. (2d) 409; Wechsler v. United States, 27 F.

(2d) 850.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

In re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, 254-" Congress has the right to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States and, having given
jurisdiction to a particular District Court to administer
and distribute the property, it may in some proper way in
such a case as this call upon all interested to appear and
assert their rights."
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Bray, 225
U. S. 205, 217,"We think it is a necessary conclusion from these and
other provisions of the Act that the jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy courts in all 'proceedings in bankruptcy' is
intended to be exclusive of all other courts and that such
proceedings include, among others, all matters of administration, such as the allowance, rejection and reconsideration of claims, the reduction of the estates to money and
its distribution, the determination of the preferences and
priorities to be accorded to claims presented for allowance
and payment in regular course, and the supervision and
control of the Trustees and others who are employed to
assist them. . . . A distinct purpose of the Bankruptcy
Act is to subject the administration of the estates of bankrupts to the control of tribunals clothed with authority
and charged with the duty of proceeding to final settlement and distribution in a summary way as are the courts
of bankruptcy."
William Filene's Sons Co. v. Weed, 245 U. S. 597, 601,
602,-receivership in a court of equity which had possession of the corporate assets"When a statutory system is administered the only
question for the courts is what the statutes prescribe.
But when the courts without statute take possession of all
the assets of a corporation under a bill like the present and
so make it impossible to collect debts except from the
court's hands,. . . [then] In order to make a distribu-

PENNA. R. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
329

Syllabus.

tion possible, they must of necessity limit the time for the
proof of claims."
Van Huffel v. Harkelrode,284 U. S. 225, 228"No good reason is suggested why liens for state taxes
should be deemed to have been excluded from the scope of
this general power to sell free from encumbrances.. Section 64 of the Bankruptcy Act grants to the court express
authority to determine 'the amount or legality' of any
tax. . . . Realization upon the lien created by the state
law must yield to the requirements of bankruptcy administration."
The federal government possesses. supreme power in respect of bankruptcies. InternationalShoe Co. v. Pinkus,
278 U. S.261, 265. If a state desires to participate in the
assets of a bankrupt, she must submit to appropriate requirements by the controlling power; otherwise, orderly
and expeditious proceedings would be impossible and a
fundamental purpose of the Bankruptcy Act would be
frustrated.
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 379.

Argued January 19, 1933.-Decided February 13, 1933.

1. A plaintiff in an action for wrongful death can not recover by
proof of facts from which it may be inferred that the injury resulted from an event attributable to the defendant's negligence, if
the same facts give equal support to an inference that it resulted
from another and different event not so attributable. P. 339.
2. When the plaintiff has failed to sustain his burden of proof, because, as to the existence of a vital fact, two equally. justifiable
inferences may be drawn from the facts proven, one for and the
other against him, the mere conclusion of a witness as to which

