N.Y. CENTRAL R. CO. v. THE TALISMAN. 239
Counsel for Parties.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. THE
TALISMAN, LONG ISLAND R. CO., CLAIMANT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THO
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 286.

Argued January 11, 12, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. At a water-front terminal maintained by an interstate rail carrier
for freight interchanges, the carrier is bound by ยง 3 (3) of the
Interstate Commerce Act to afford reasonable and proper facilities

to other carriers for that purpose, and, when towing car-floats,
must exercise reasonable care to avoid damage by collision to carfloats of another carrier engaged in receiving and delivering traffic.
P. 241.
2. This duty of reasonable care being one imposed by law in respect
of a service such as common carriers are bound to render in the
public interest, the carrier owing it can not escape it by notifying
other carriers that it will not be responsible for future damage to
their floating equipment while lying at its terminal, whether caused
by negligence or otherwise. P. 242.
3. A carrier receiving such a notice need not answer, and its silence
will not imply a contract. P. 243.
4. Facilities furnished at a water-terminal merely for interchange of
traffic from tracks to car-floats and vice versa, held not "terminal
facilities" within the meaning of ยง 3 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 242
57 F. (2d) 144, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

287 U. S. 587, to review the reversal of a

decree in admiralty holding a tug liable for damage to
a car-float by collision.
Mr. Leonard J. Matteson, with whom Messrs. D. Roger
Englar and Clive C. Handy were on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Chauncey I. Clark for respondent.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

288 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit in admiralty brought by petitioner in the
southern district of New York against the tug Talisman,
of which respondent is the owner and claimant, to recover
damages to carfloat No. 37 belonging to petitioner. The
case was submitted on anagreed statement of facts.
Petitioner and respondent were common carriers engaged in interstate commerce. The damages resulted
from a collision October 29, 1926, between petitioner's
carfloat No. 58, while in tow of the Talisman, and carfloat
No. 37, which was moored in a carfloat bridge of respondent's terminal at Long Island City. The collision was
occasioned solely by the negligence of the Talisman and
those in charge of her. Respondent received No. 37 at the
terminal named in connection with the transportation in
interstate commerce of freight cars and freight. Petitioner had received by registered mail from respondent a
notice dated July 31, 1920.
"We beg to inform you that it has become necessary to
cease being responsible for vessels lying at our terminals,
Long Island City and Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. On and
after September 1, 1920, the following conditions will apply to all floating equipment lying at Long Island Railroad Company terminals, Long Island City and Bay
Ridge, Brooklyn: All vessels, floats, craft or any kind of
floating equipment, lying at the Long Island Railroad terminals, Long Island City or Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, are at
the risk of the vessel, float or craft. This company will
not be responsible for any damage received by said floating equipment while lying at the above mentioned terminals, whether said damage arises through the negligence
of this company and/or its employees, or through other
causes. This notice applies to all floats whether in charge
of a floatman or not, while lying moored at the Long

N.Y. CENTRAL R. CO. v. THE TALISMAN.
239

241

Opinion of the Court.

Island Railroad Company terminals, Long Island City or
Bay Ridge, Brooklyn."
Petitioner had made no reply to the notice.
The district court held respondent liable. 52 F. (2d)
691. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 57 F.
(2d) 144.
Petitioner and respondent were connecting carriers. As
such, each, in the discharge of its duties to the public,
owed to shippers of freight in its possession destined to
points on or routed over the railway of the other the duty
to deliver to the connecting line for further transportation; and each was correspondingly bound to receive and
carry. Railroad Co. v. Manufacturing Co., 16 Wall. 318,
324. Myrick v. Michigan Central R., Co., 107 U. S. 102,
106. Dunham v. Boston & Maine R. Co., 70 Me. 164, 170.
Atchison, T.& S.F. R. Co. v. Denver & N. 0. R. Co., 110
U. S.667, 683. Andrus v. Columbia & Okanogan Steamboat Co., 47 Wash. 333, 338; 92 Pac. 128. Such carriers,
were not bound under the common law to make track
connections. Wisconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179'
U. S. 287, 296. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Denver
& N. 0. R. Co., supra. The Interstate Commerce Act
empowered the commission to require such connections.
Alabama & V. Ry. Co. v. Jackson & E. Ry. Co., 271
U. S.244.
And ยง 3 (3) provides that all carriers shall, according
to their respective powers, "afford all reasonable, proper,
and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between
their respective lines." Respondent's terminal and carfloat bridge constituted the place and means long used
forsuch interchange. It is not suggested that, at the time
of the collision, petitioner's carfloat was not where
respondent intended to have itbrought or that petitioner
could have selected any other place or means. It was
not free elsewhere to tender the traffic. In view of the

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

duty put upon respondent by the policy of the law, it
was bound to exercise reasonable care for the safety of
petitioner's carfloat while engaged in delivering and
receiving traffic. Bennett v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 577.
Woodruff v. Painter & Eldridge, 150 Pa. 91, 96; 24
Atl. 621.
But respondent insists that, if dissatisfied with the
terms of the notice it sent, petitioner's remedy was to
appeal to the Interstate Commerce Commission for relief
under par. (4) of ยง 3. That position is not tenable. The
place and bridge furnished by respondent for interchange
are not terminal facilities within the intention of that
paragraph. The expression " terminal facilities, including
main-line track or tracks for a reasonable distance outside
of such terminal, of any carrier" does not include mere
interchange facilities. Petitioner's use of respondent's
property involved no taking requiring the ascertainment
of just compensation as provided in that paragraph.
Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 351, 368.
Moreover, the requirement in par. (3) that carriers shall
furnish "equal" facilities for interchange negatives the
suggestion that par. (4) applies.
For the better discharge of their duties, these public
servants were required by the Act to coperate in effecting
interchange of traffic. Respondent could not by its own
act relieve itself of any duty imposed upon it by law or
arising out of the nature of its undertaking in respect of
the required interchange. It was powerless by mere announcement to fix the terms on which it would participate
with petitioner and other connecting carriers in effecting
such interchange. It cites Sun Oil Co. v. Dalzell Towing
Co., 287 U. S. 291. But the tgwage company was not bound
to render the service there involved and was not a common
carrier or liable as such. That case, and the cases cited
which arose under contracts for towage, plainly have no
application to the question under consideration. Here

U. S. v. ACME OPERATING CORP.
239

243

Opinion of the Court.

the respondent's duty to petitioner arose out of the law
governing its occupation. Petitioner made no reply to
the notice sent it by respondent. In view of the character
of respondent's duties, no contract can be implied from
petitioner's silence. That quite as reasonably may be
deemed to imply, if any implication is to be drawn, that
petitioner intended to stand on its rights and not to surrender them. And, as respondent was not in position to
dictate terms, petitioner was under no obligation to repudiate those proposed or to reply in any manner to the
notice. New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants'
Bank, 6 How. 344, 383. Hollister v. Nowlen, 19 Wend.
234, 242, 246. York Company v. Central Railroad, 3
Wall. 107,113. RailroadCo. v. Manufacturing Co.,supra,
329. Judson v. Western RailroadCorp., 6 Allen 487, 490491. Gott v. Dinsmore, 111 Mass. 45, 52.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. ACME OPERATING CORP.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 319.

Argued January 16, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. Claim of the mortgagee of vessels requisitioned by the Government, for amounts expended to repair them after their return, held
without basis in view (1) of an agreement, joined in by the Government, the owners and the mortgagee, by which the expense to
the Government of transporting to destination the cargoes aboard
when the use was taken should be charged against the amount of
just compensation, and any balance in the Government's favor be
payable upon return of the ships and be secured by prior liens
upon them; and (2) in view of the fact that the amount found to
be due the Government upon the final accounting exceeded the
amount found to have been expended for the repairs. P. 247.
2. The claim against the United States, by the holder of mortgages
on ships that were requisitioned by the Government, for the expense
of repairs to put .them in condition after their return, gains no

