14

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

The primary responsibility rested upon the Commission
to determine whether under the circumstances the railroad was required to procure leave under § 20a for the
issuance of securities. Evidently entertaining serious
doubts on this question it has for more than a decade resolved them in favor of the carrier, and the compafly and
its officers have acted in reliance on the administrative
tribunal's construction of the statute. At this late day
the courts ought not to uphold an application of the law
contradictory of this settled administrative interpretation.
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL.

V.

OREGON-WASHINGTON RAILROAD & NAVIGA-

TION CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 23. Argued November 8, 9, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

1. In a suit to set aside an order of. the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring a railroad extension, that Commission and commissions representing interested States, having intervened to defend
the order, are entitled as "aggrieved parties " to appeal to this
Court from a decree annulling it, even though the United States, as
represented by the Attorney General, will not join in the appeal.
Urgent Deficiencies Act, Oct. 22, 1913; Commerce Court Act,
§§ 2, 5. P. 22.
2. Upon such an appeal a decree may be obtained enforcing the rights
of the United States. P. 25.
3. An official may be designated to stand in judgment on behalf of the
United States so that a decree against him binds the Government;
Congress had power, in naming the United States as the defendant
in such suits, to give the Commission, and others having an interest,
authority to litigate the validity of such orders, and, regardless of
joinder by the Attorney General, to obtain by appeal a review effective as to the United States. P. 27.
4. That part of par. 21 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act which
authorizes the Commission to require a carrier " to extend its line

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

15

Argument for the Commission.

or lines," provided the Commission find that such extension is
reasonably required in the interest of public convenience and necessity and that the expense involved therein will not impair the
ability of the carrier to perform its duty to the public, refers to
expnsions within the carrier's undertaking and does not empower
the Commission to compel the building of what is essentially a new
line to reach new territory which the carrier never agreed to serve.
Pp. 35 et 8seq.
5. This provision of par. 21 is in contrast with that part of par. 18
of the same section which provides that no company shall undertake "the extension of its line, or the construction of a new line of
railroad," without having first obtained a certificate of present or
future public convenience and necessity from the Commission.
P. 36.
6. The Act distinguishes between three sorts of facilities,-new lines,
or extensions, voluntarily undertaken (§ 18); compulsory extensions within the area which the carrier has bound itself to serve
(§ 21); and spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks located
wholly within one State, which are left within state control (§ 22).

Pp. 38-40.
7. A statute should be construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid
grave'doubt of its constitutionality. P. 40.
8. Having charter authority to build a line of railroad does not commit the company to an obligation to build. P. 43.
47 F. (2d) 250, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the'District Court of three

judges which set aside, and enjoined the execution of, an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring
the Oregon-Washington Railroad & Navigation Co., (a
subsidiary of the Oregon Short Line, which in turn is a
subsidiary of the Union Pacific Co.,) to build an "extension" from a point on its railroad in Oregon, 185 miles
across an arid, sparsely settled and unproductive country,
to a point on one of the lines of the Southern Pacific System, west of the Cascade Range. The report of the Commission is 159 1. C. C. 630. See also 111 id. 3.
Mr. J. &anley Payne, with whom Mr. Daniel W.
Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission, appellant.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the Commission.

288 U.S.

Under the applicable statutes, this Court has jurisdiction over, and appellants have the right to prosecute,
this appeal. The provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies
Act and so much of the Commerce Court Act as remains
in force now appear in the U. S. Code, as amended by Supplement V, in Title 28, §§ 41 (27) and (28), 43, 44, 45,
45a, 46, 47, 47a and 48.
The provision giving the Commission and parties in
interest the right to " continue said suit or proceeding unaffected by the action or non-action of the Attorney General," together with the provision for direct appeal, seems
clearly to give the Commission the right to pursue the
case to its final determination in this Court. For the history of the legislation see: H. R. 17536, 61st Cong., 2d
Sess., H. Rep. No. 923, p. 158; 45 Cong. Rec., Pt. V, p.
5524; Sen. Rep. 355, Pt. 2, pp. 5, 6, 7, 61st Cong., 2d
Sess.; 45 Cong. Ree., Pt. 5, pp. 4604, 4607; id. Pt. 6, pp.
6406, 6445, 6451.
Paragraph 21 confers jurisdiction upon the Commission
in reference to two distinct matters--car service facilities
and extensions of lines. The provision relating to extensions is subject to both limitations prescribed in the
proviso. The provision relating to car service facilities
is subject only to the second limitation.
The Commission interpreted § 1 (21) in Cooke v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 66 I. C. C. 452; Gunderson v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 91 1. C. C. 702; Clarkston
Chamber of Commerce v. Northern Pac. Ry. Co., 160
I. C. C. 752; and Public Service Commission of Wyoming
v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 185 I. C. C. 741.
Although the Commission has been requested repeatedly to exercise the power conferred by § 1 (21), the
case at bar is the only case in which it has found that the
facts justified the exercise of the authority. This Court,
like the Commission, has given the language its natural
import. Railroad Comm'n of Californiav. Southern Pac.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

17

Argument for the Commission.

Co., 264 U. S. 331; Alabama Ry. v. Jackson Ry., 271 U. S.
244; Atchison Ry. v. Railroad Comm'n, 283 U. S. 380;
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. U. S. ex rel. Los Angeles,
280 U. S. 52.
The plain import of its terms is confirmed when it is
read with paragraphs 18, 19, 20, and 22. The first three
confer upon the Commission a negative or restraining
power. Paragraph 22 restricts the power conferred. It
makes it clear that the authority of the Commission over
voluntary constructions and over compulsory extensions,
applies to extensions which are more than merely spur,
industrial, team, switching, or side tracks. See Railroad
Comm'n v. Southern Pac. Co., 264 U. S. 331. Cf. also
§ 6(13).
The provisions of paragraphs 18-22 of § 1 and paragraph 13 of § 6 are not to be confused with the power
conferred by paragraph 9 of § 1 authorizing the Commission to require by order the construction, installation, and
operation of switch connections. Cf. C., C., C. & St. L.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 275 U. S. 404; United States v.
New York Central R. Co., 272 U. S. 457.
The extensions mentioned in paragraph 21 are such
as the Commission has authorized in many cases under
. pars. 18-20.
The length Qf the extension alone is not important.
A relatively long extension in the open country might
not cost as much to construct as a very short one in a congested metropolitan area where property values are high.
It would obviously have been impracticable for Congress to attempt to prescribe legislatively the definite
maximum mileage of an extension which the Commission
might require. No such limitation was needed, for the
conditions that were prescribed operate as definite limitations.
An interpretation of the compulsory extension provision
broad enough to embrace such an extension as here

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the Commission.

288 US.

ordered is in strict conformity with the Commission's
recommendation for enactment.
The facts developed in the exhaustive record before the
Commission demonstrate the public convenience and necessity for the extension, and fully justify the order requiring its construction. The extension will aid in more
adequately serving and developing a large area in eastern
and central Oregon that is now either wholly unserved or
inadequately served by existing railroad lines. This area
is probably the largest within the United States that is
without rail facilities. The construction of the extension
would provide shorter routes which would make it possible to ship perishable commodities to available markets.
Joining the lines of the Southern Pacific on the west with
those of the Union Pacific on the east, the extension
would afford a new, shorter, more expeditious and more
economical transcontinental route between western' Oregon and the East. With the resulting shorter routes to
Pacific Coast markets, the extension across central Oregon
would be of great advantage to southwestern Idaho. This
section looks principally to California for markets.
The ultimate aim of the extension is to afford more adequate transportation to the State of Oregon as a whole.
The Union Pacific system, of which the O.-W. R. & N.
is a dependent part, is one of the principal carriers to
which the State must look for its transportation service.
The Union Pacific has many miles of main and branch
lines in Oregon.. By these it holds itself out io serve
those portions of Oregon that are tributary thereto.
MTuch of its present traffic could be better served with
the aid of the extension.
The proposition that a carrier is under no duty with
respect to traffic originating at points not directly served
by its lines is erroneous. Wisconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

19

Argument for the Commission.

If Congress is without power to require a carrier to construct this extension, then it would seem that it is without power to require the construction of a track connection between the main lines of interstate carriers, Alabama & V. Ry. Co. v. Jackson & E. Ry. Co., 271 U. S. 244;
Wisconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v. Jacobson,supra, or the construction of a switch connection with a lateral branch
line of railway, C., C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 275 U. S. 404, or the construction of a connecting
track to the dock of a water carrier, United States v. New
York Central R. Co., 272 U. S. 457, or even the establishment of through routes and joint rates, United States
v. Express Co., 265 U. S. 425, 435; St. Louis S. W. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136, 142, Cf. Minneapolis
& St. L. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257, and Missouri & I. C. Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 22 I. C. C.
39, 44-46. For in all such instances the carrier would be
required to engage in a new service which it had not
theretofore professed to render.
Moreover, for many years the O.-W. R. & N. held a
franchise to build the extension which is here ordered.
Although this permissive franchise did not compel the
company to build the line, nevertheless the fact that it
held this franchise was no doubt sufficient to discourage
any other carrier from attempting to enter the territory.
In this broad sense, at least, the Union Pacific has "occupied the territory."
The principle applicable in cases involving extensions
of service by such public utilities as have been given
franchises for definite territories, New York & Queens
Gas Co. v. McCall, 245-U. S. 345; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 173 Cal. 577, is not applicable to
extensions of railroad lines. Railroads are not given franchises conferring upon them the right to serve exclusively
any particular territory, district, or community. Hence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the Commission.

288 US.

no extension of a railroad line could under any circumstances be required if it were necessary to find, as a condition precedent, that the railroad held an exclusive franchise to serve the territory. Nevertheless the company
owes a duty to the territory through which it has been
given a franchise to construct its line. The Transportation Act places a duty upon railroads, in the interest of
public convenience and necessity, to adequately serve and
develop the territory through which their lines run.
The provision for extensions is one of many provisions
of Transportation Act, '1920, in pari materia, having for
their ultimate purpose the development and maintenance
of an adequate national transportation system. The
provision is therefore a valid exercise of the plenary power
of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
The extension ordered is such an enlargement of transportation facilities as is contemplated by the Act, provision for which is made by rate adjustment to yield revenue sufficient to provide a return fixed at a level which
takes into consideration the necessity of providing adequate national transportation service.
The requirement, considered with regard to the interests
both of the carrier and of the public, is reasonable and
appropriate, meets the test of constitutional validity laid
down by this Court in cases which reviewed state commission orders, and does not take the carrier's property.
Atchison Ry. v. Railroad Comm'n, 283 U. S. 380; Wisconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Oregon R.
& N. Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 530; Grand Trunk
Ry. v. Michigan Railroad Camm'n, 231 U. S. 457, 469470; Alabama & V. Ry. v. Jackson & E. Ry., 271 U. S.
244; Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U. S. 416;
Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Geary, 239 U. S. 277; Minneapolis &
St. L. R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 193 U. S. 53; Missouri
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; N. & W. Ry. Co. v.

Public Service Comm'n, 265 U. S. 70.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.

21

Opinion of the Court.

14

It was affirmatively shown that a large traffic is available for movement over the extension ordered, and that
the construction of it will create additional traffic; and
the Commission found that the extension would be a valuable asset to the Union Pacific system. The validity
of the order is not dependent upon the profitableness of
the extension, considered separately from the remainder
of the transportation system of which it will form a part.
Messrs. William C. McCulloch and James M. Thompson, with whom Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney General
of Oregon, was on the brief, for the Public Utilities Commissions of Oregon and Idaho, appellants.
Mr. Arthur C. Spencer, with whom Messrs. Henry W.
Clark and James M. Souby were on the brief, for the Oregon-Washington Railroad & Navigation Co., appellee.
Mr. Ben C. Dey, with whom Messrs. Guy V. Shoup and
Alfred A. Hampson were on the brief, for the Southern
Pacific Co., intervener-appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Public Service Commission of Oregon filed a complaint with the Interstate Commerce Commission, against
eleven railroads, including the Oregon-Washington Railroad & Navigation Company, asserting they had failed
and refused to provide reasonable and adequate transportation facilities to an area of some 33,000 square miles
within the State. The prayer was that one or more of
them be required to extend or build a line of railroad
from a point near Crane, to Crescent Lake, or some adjacent point. Several municipalities and commercial organizations, and the Public Utilities Commission of Idaho,
were given leave to be heard in support of the petition.
The respondents answered that public necessity and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

venience would not be served by the proposed construction and that there was no authority in law for granting
the requested relief. After hearing, the Commission entered an order requiring Oregon-Washington Railroad &
Navigation Company to "extend its line of railroad, now
terminating near Burns, Oreg., from, or near, a station
thereon designated as Crane, Oreg., to a connection with
the Cascade line of the Southern Pacific Company at, or
near, Crescent Lake, Oreg."'
The Oregon-Washington Company thereupon filed a
petition against the United States, in the District Court,
to set aside, annul and suspend the order and to enjoin
the Government, its officers and agents, from enforcing
the Commission's mandate. The Southern Pacific Company intervened in support of the petition, and the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Public Utilities Commissioner (the successor of the Public Service Commission) of Oregon, and the Public Utilities Commission of
Idaho, were permitted to intervene, and participated in
the defense of the suit. From a decree setting aside the
order and granting an injunction the three intervening
defendants appealed. The United States refused to join
in the appeal, and a summons and severance was duly
served upon it. The appellees insist that if we should
reverse the decree as to the appellants the United States
would remain bound by its terms; that we may not pass
upon the merits in the absence of the Government, a
necessary party, and should therefore dismiss the appeal
for want of jurisdiction. We shall first dispose of the
question thus presented.
Before the Commerce Court was established suits to
enjoin orders of the Commission were brought against
that body, and appeals from the judgments rendered were
' 159 I. C. C. 630.

The order contained ancillary provisions which

it is unnecessary here to recite.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

23

Opinion of the Court.

prosecuted by it in its own name.2 The Act of June 18,
1910,1 created the Commerce Court, defined the jurisdiction and regulated the procedure of that tribunal, Vnd
authorized a direct appeal to this court. The Urgent Deficiencies Act,4 under which this suit was instituted, abolished the Commerce Court, transferred the jurisdiction
theretofore vested in it to the several district courts, and
made the procedure therein the same as that previously
followed in the Commerce Court. Existing statutes were
repealed only insofar as inconsistent with the new jurisdiction conferred on district courts.5
Section 4 of the Commerce Court Act directed
"That all cases and proceedings in the commerce court
[now District Court] which but for this Act would be
brought by or against the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be brought by or against the United States, and
the United States may intervene in any case or proceeding in the commerce court [District Court] whenever,
though it has not been made a party, public interests are
involved."
Other sections permit the Commission, or complainants before the Commission, or any party in interestin
a proceeding before that body, or any other interested
party, to become parties to a suit involving the validity of
an order of the Commission; forbid the Attorney General
'Interstate Commerce Commn. v. B. & 0. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263;
Interstate Commerce Commn. v. C., R. & P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88;
Interstate Commerce Commn. v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194;
Interstate Commerce Commn. v. B. & 0. R. Co., 225 U. S. 326.
'Chap. 309, 36 Stat. 539, §§ 1-6.
' Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219, 220. See U. S. C.,
Tit. 28, §§ 47 and 48.
'Those portions of the Commerce Court Act which remained in
force, and the new provisions substituted for those superseded, may
be found in the U. S. Code, Tit. 28, §§ 41 (27) and (28), and 43-48,
inclusive, as amended by Supplement V, Tit. 28, §§ 41 (27), 44, 45,
45a, 46, 47, 47a and 48.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

to control, dispose of, or discontinue the suit against the
objection of anyone so becoming a party; allow the intervenor to prosecute, defend or continue the proceeding
unaffected by the action or non-action of the Attorney
General; and accord to any aggrieved party the right of
appeal to this court.'
The Commission, by entering its appearance in the District Court, became a party defendant, as did the two
state utilities commissions. The court below decided adversely to all these bodies. They are aggrieved parties
granted a review by § 2; the Interstate Commerce Commission for the reason that the decree set aside its order,
-

'Section 5 enacted "That the Attorney-General shall have charge
and .control of the interests of the Government in all cases and proceedings in the commerce court, and in the Supreme Court of the
United States upon appeal from the commerce court; . . .Provided,

That the Interstate Commerce Commission and any party or parties
in interest to the proceeding before the commission, in which an order
or requirement is made, may appear as parties thereto of their own
motion and as of right, and be represented by their counsel, in any
suit wherein is involved the validity of such order or requirement or
any part thereof, and the interest of such party;" [for "Commerce
Court" read " District Court "]. And further: "That communities,
associations, corporations, firms, and individuals who are intrested in
the controversy or question before the Interstate Commerce Commission, or in any suit which may be brought by anyone under the terms
of this Act. or the Acts of which it is amendatory or which are amendatory of it, relating to action of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
may intervene in said suit or proceedings at any time after the institution thereof, and the Attorney-General shall not dispose of or discontinue said suit or proceeding over the objection of such party or
intervenor aforesaid, but said intervenor or intervenors may prosecute,
defend, or continue said suit or proceeding unaffected by the action or
nonaction of the Attorney-General of the United States therein."
By section 2 it was ordained: "That a final judgment or decree of
the commerce court [District Court] may be reviewed by the Supreme
Court of the United States if appeal to the Supreme Coirt be taken
by an aggrieved party within sixty days after the entry of said final
judgment or decree. ..

."

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

25

Opinion of the Court.

the state commissions because they officially represent the
interest of their states in obtaining adequate transportation service.
Though the present appellants were parties in the court
below, as of right, and not by grace or favor, were aggrieved by the decree, and have a right of appeal, the
appellees maintain this court may not hear and decide the
case in the absence of the United States. While admitting intervenors' right to be heard as to the substance of
the decree the District Court entered against the Government, the appellees assert the appellants have no standing
in this court to ask modification or reversal of the decree
as it affects the United States when the latter seeks no
review.
We may concede that, unless the Act so directs, a reversal at the suit of the appellants will not affect the
judgment as respects the United States. The injunction
will stand as against the United States and its agents,
because unchallenged by that defendant. Summons and
severance does not cure the defect, for though the United
States has been severed by that process, if this court
should reverse the decree as to other parties, but allow it
to remain in force against the Government, the appeal
would be a vain thing. The appellants, however, contend
that the legislation creates an exception to the ordinary
rule governing our jurisdiction. They assert that the purpose of Congress is to permit proper parties in the District
Court to carry the litigation to a final conclusion in this
court.
The statute clearly provides that in the trial of the case
the intervening parties shall not be foreclosed by the
action or nonaction of the Attorney General. Even
though he concludes not to defend, they are permitted to
do so. If notwithstanding their defense a decree goes
against them and the United States, can it have been the
purpose of Congress that the failure of the Attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

General to prosecute an appeal concludes such intervenors? We think not. So to hold would render meaningless and superfluous § 2 of the act, which permits a
review of the action of the court below "if appeal to the
Supreme Court be taken by an aggrieved party ..."
The section can be given effect only by holding that an
aggrieved party may challenge the decree not only to
vindicate his own rights, but those of the United States
as well. Congress evidently intended the Attorney General should represent and protect the interests of the
United States as such, but should not at any stage control
the litigation against the objection of the other parties
and to their disadvantage; and that any aggrieved party
might obtain a decree which the United States could have
secured had it defended the action or prosecuted an appeal.
This conclusion is confirmed by comparing the form of
§ 5 of the Commerce Court Act as first presented and as
subsequently altered by amendment. The section as originally introduced precluded the Commission and its attorneys from taking any part in suits brought to review its
orders. This provision was stricken out in committee.
The clause giving the Attorney General control of such
cases was also modified. The stated purpose of the
amendments was to prevent his forestalling the Commission or any other interested party desiring to litigate the
questions involved.
The movers of the amendments
which were ultimately incorporated in the act insisted
that a party affected by the order should have the right
to follow the case " through the Commerce Court and Supreme Court "; and that "A party litigant should always
have the right to follow his case to final judgment."
'House Report No. 923, 61st Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 158; Cong. Rec.,
Vol. 45, Part 5, p. 5524. Senate Report 355, Part 2,.pp. 5, 6, 7,
61st Cong., 2nd Sess. Cong. Rec., Vol. 45, Part 5, pp. 4604, 4607;
Part 6, pp. 6406, 6445, 6451, 6462.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

27

Opinion of the Court.

An official may be designated to stand in judgment on
behalf of the United States, so that a decree against him
binds the Government.8 As has been stated, this was the
accepted practice in suits by and against the Commission
prior to the adoption of the Commerce Court Act. The
new legislation might have left the rights of the United
States arising out of orders of the Commission to be thus
determined in the court of first instance and on appeal.
But Congress had undoubted power, in naming the United
States as the defendant in such suits, to give the Commission, and others having an interest, authority to litigate
the validity of such orders, and, regardless of joinder by
the Attorney General, to obtain by appeal a review effective as to the United States. The act plainly exhibits this
purpose. Should a reversal be required the mandate may
vacate the judgment against the United States though it
did not join in the appeal. We think that review may not
be denied for want of a necessary party, and we are therefore brought to a consideration of the merits of the cause.
The Oregon Short Line owns all of the capital stock of
the Oregon-Washington Company, and the Union Pacific
owns all the capital stock of the Short Line; these three
companies, with the Los Angeles and Salt Lake, make up
the Union Pacific System. The main lines of the Union
Pacific Railroad extend from Council Bluffs, Iowa and
Kansas City, Missouri, to Ogden, Utah. The Short Line
runs from a connection with Union Pacific at Granger,
Wyfning, to Huntington, Oregon. From Huntington the
Oregon-Washington follows a northwesterly direction to
the Columbia River, thence along the south bank of that
stream to Portland. Branches extend southerly and westerly from the main line between Huntington and Portland, east of the Cascade Mountains, but the company
'See Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 387-388; Johnson v.
Fleet Corporation, 280 U. S. 320, 326-327.

OCTOBEI. TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

operates no lines south of Portland and west of the Cascade Range. Crane, just beyond which the required extension would begin, is in eastern Oregon on a line known
as the Ontario-Burns Branch, which connects with the
Oregon Short Line at Ontario, forty miles south of Huntington, and runs westward to Crane, 127 miles, and thence
northwest 30 miles to Burns. The extension would run
west from Crane across central Oregon a distance of 185
miles to Crescent Lake, which is on the Cascade Line of
the Southern Pacific. The latter operates lines from Ogden, Utah, and New Orleans, Louisiana, to San Francisco,
and from Roseville, California, on the Ogden-San Francisco line, to Sacramento and Portland. To Portland it
has two alternate main lines between Black Butte, California and Eugene, Oregon, that on the west, the original
main line, passing through Medford, Grants Pass and
Roseburg, and a newer line to the east, known as the
Cascade or Natron cut-off, passing through Klamath Falls,
Kirk, Chemult, Paunina, Crescent Lake, the western terminus of the required extension, and Natron.
Prior to 1913 the railways of the Union Pacific and
Southern Pacific were jointly operated under control of
the Harriman interests. A cross-state line was then
planned to run from Malheur Junction, just south of
Ontario, Oregon, to Eugene. The Natron cut-off between
Eugene and Weed was also in contemplation. In 1911
construction of the cross-state road was begun at both
ends. 73.6 miles were completed from Ontario to Juntura; and eastward from Eugene 40 miles were built as
far as Oakridge. Work on the Natron cut-off was begun
and proceeded through Klamath Falls to Kirk, 127 miles.
The line would have joined with the Natron cut-off at
Odell Lake, just north of Crescent Lake, the present proposed terminus.
In January, 1913, this court, in United States v. Union
Pacific R. Co., 226 U. S. 61, 470, declared control of South-

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

29

Opinion of the Court.

ern Pacific by Union Pacific through stock ownership
offensive to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, and the combination was dissolved. All work on the Oregon projects
ceased and was not resumed, except that in 1915 the
Ontario-Juntura line was extended to Riverside, 92.7
miles, and in 1916 to Crane, an additional 34 miles.
After the passage of the Transportation Act the Oregon
Public Service Commission applied to the Commission
under paragraph 21 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce
Act as amended, asserting that the cross-state line
was needed and asking that some one or more of the
respondents named in the complaint be ordered to build
it; and further requesting that the Commission require
completion of the Natron cut-off and order certain other
railroad construction in central Oregon. The Southern
Pacific voluntarily assumed the completion of the Natron
cut-off and to that end was granted a certificate of public
convenience and necessity under § 1 (18). The OregonWashington also applied for and obtained a certificate for
construction of the branch from Crane to Burns. Other
applications by various carriers were granted. The Cornmission then dismissed the complaint, holding that the
record was not adequate to support the requested order.'
On May 24, 1927, the Oregon Commission filed the
present complaint against eleven railroads, including the
Oregon-Washington, the Oregon Short Line, the Southern
Pacific, and others serving the State, and also the Union
Pacific. The failure and refusal to provide railroad facilities to a large area of central Oregon was the gravamen
of the complaint. Consequences of the neglect to build
this line were enumerated as prevention of the development of a vast area, hindrance of exploitation of the natural resources of the State, unreasonably circuitous routes,
with consequent delays, and car shortages, all causing
'Construction of Railroad Lines in Eastern Oregon, 111 I. C. C. 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

losses to the people of Oregon. The relief prayed was an
order that one or more of the respondents be required to
construct the cross-state line, from Crane to Crescent
Lake.
This line, 185 miles in length, after leaving Crane would
traverse about 20 miles of swampy area and 15 miles of
alkali flats, and would then pass over the Great Sandy or
High Desert for 115 miles. The region is in part sparsely
settled and in part wholly uninhabited, and contains no
towns except Crescent and Crescent Lake, at the western
extremity, neither of which has a population of 100.
There is no town within 20 miles north or south of the
proposed line. Certain of the lands have possibilities of
cultivation through irrigation, and the evidence for complainants is that if the railroad were built such activity
would be stimulated. There seems to be no dispute that
traffic to be obtained from the region will fall far short of
supportiug the line. The appellants are of opinion that
sufficient traffic for this purpose may be secured by diverting to the new line freight originating west of the Cascade
Range, and now moving east on the Southern Pacific
through Ogden. In the total haul between Crescent Lake
and Granger, Wyo., the route via the cross-state line
would be some 214 miles, or 11%, shorter. Neither the
Oregon-Washington nor any other portion of the Union
Pacific System serves the territory south of Portland and
west of the Cascade Mountains. The Southern Pacific
lines cover this area. Freight may, however, be routed
either over the Southern Pacific via Ogden, or over the
Union Pacific via Portland and Granger, Wyoming. The
latter furnishes a reasonably short route with adequate
and quick service. Inasmuch, however, as the freight
originates in Southern Pacific territory, very little is sent
over the Union Pacific, the Southern Pacific routing it so
as to obtain the long haul. The contention is that even if
the proposed line were constructed the cane condition

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON' R. CO.
14

31

Opinion of the Court.

would obtain and that the Union Pacific System could get
little or none of the traffic from western Oregon, unless in
addition to the cross-state line the Oregon-Washington
should build across the Cascade Range into the agricultural counties now served by the Southern Pacific."
The Union Pacific System, composed as above stated,
has a total trackage of 15,045.17 miles. The required extension would add 1.2 per cent. to the existing mileage,
and can be constructed at a cost of between $9,900,000 and
$11,700,000. The finding of the Commission is that operation of the line will not seriously affect the ability of the
Union Pacific System adequately to serve the public.
Recognizing that the Oregon-Washington has not the
necessary funds, and perhaps cannot borrow them, the
order permits the financing cf construction by advances
from the Union Pacific Railroad, which is found to be in
position to make them. Union Pacific and the OregonWashington consider the venture unprofitable and wasteful, and have refused to make the investment. In the
Commission's judgment, the railroad, if constructed, while
not profitable at first, will ultimately obtain valuable
traffic for the Union Pacific System, will aid the OntarioBurns branch, which now operates at a serious deficit, and
consequently prove a remunerative investment. The
court below held,11 as we must, that these findings, based
upon evidence, may not be disturbed.
oThe court below found: "5. The proposed line in large part
would extend through a sparsely settled desert waste which the
petitioner has not undertaken or professed to serve. One of the
dominant purposes of the order complained of was to provide for the
construction of a new east and west line of railroad, whereby lumber
traffic originating hundreds of miles from petitioner's present lin?
may find a shorter route to eastern markets, and traffic from south-

western Idaho may find a shorter route to northern California points."
'The court below said: "If we were at liberty to review this
testimony independently of the findings made by the commission,
we might find no little difficulty in reaching the same conclusion."
47 F. (2d) 252,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The appellees' challenge of the order as beyond the
power of the Commission was sustained by the District
Court, and this decision is assigned as error. The Commission thought its authority to order extension of existing lines was without limitations, save the two which are
expressed in paragraph 21,-that public necessity and
convenience require the construction, and that the building and operation of the road will not impair the ability
of the carrier to render adequate public service. Having
determined that the requested extension complied with
both conditions the Commission ordered the road built.
Prior to the adoption of the Transportation Act, 1920,
the Commission had no authority to authorize or to compel extensions of existing lines of railroad. Such power as
existed in that behalf rested in the States. In a number
of cases this court passed upon and defined the authority
of a State to require extensions of existing service and
facilities. 2 Orders made were attacked as compelling the
companies, against their will and judgment, to devote
property to the public service without compensation, conWisconsin, Minnesota & Pacific R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287;
Michigan Central R. Co. v. Michigan R. R. Commn., 236 U. S. 615
(requirement of track connections and facilities for interchange of
traffic); Minneapolis & St. Louis R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53
(erection and maintenance of depots); Missouri Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Atlantic C. L. R. Co. v. North Carolina Corp.
Commn., 206 U. S. 1; Chesapeake & 0. Ry. v. Public Service Commn.,
242 U. S. 603 (orders relating to passenger service to be rendered
and train schedules to be maintained); Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Geary,
239 U. S. 277 (requirement that a street railway company doubletrack a portion of its lines); Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249
U. S. 416 (extension of a sidetrack as a public track and as part of
the railroad's property and system for the service of a private plant);
Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Public Serv. Commn., 265 U. S. 70
(requirement that railroad provide certain facilities for removal of
freight from its premises).

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

33

Opinion of the Court.

trary to the guaranty of due process. They were sustained, however, upon the express ground that the railroads had undertaken the service and must supply facilities adequate and reasonably necessary to its performance.
The requirements were found not to involve the rendition
of a new or different service from that to which the owners had agreed when they dedicated their property to a
public use. Where, however, the State's mandate involved the rendition of a service beyond the agreement of
the carrier, the order was annulled."'
The regulations adopted by the States were not uniform; statutory authority to order additions and extensions existed in some States and not in others. Congress
was informed of this condition, and urged to exercise the
federal power to promulgate a uniform system of regulation of interstate commerce. 4 Legislation to effectuate
this purpose was enacted.
"Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417; Oregon
R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; compare Northern Pac. Ry.
Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595.
1, See 33d Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
1919, p. 3, where the following quotation is given from a statement
furnished by the Commission to the Senate Committee on Interstate
Commerce:
" In some of the States the State officers are authorized to require
such extensions, but in such cases they are necessarily primarily concerned with, if not confined to, a consideration of State traffic. Some
of the States have not vested such authority in any State official.
Ordinarily such extensions would be desired for the purpose of facilitating or making possible the transportation of interstate traffic. The
desirability of uniformity is obvious. The exercise of Federal authority should not depend upon whether or not the State has acted
and should not be different as to the State that has legislated on the
subject and the State that- has not so legislated. It therefore seems
desirable that the Congress should exercise its jurisdiction in this
regard in a plenary way and that where such extensions are desired
in connection with the movement of presently existing or prospective

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

By act of May 29, 1917,15 new paragraphs were added to

§ 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act; and by the Transportation Act, 1920,11 these were amended and others inserted. As a result paragraphs 10 to 17 inclusive, all dealing with car service, were given their present form. Paragraphs 18 to 20 inclusive first appear in the Transportation Act. They regulate voluntary extensions of lines or
building of new lines, require a certificate of convenience
and necessity therefor, and prescribe the procedure for
obtaining it. The paragraph with which we are here concerned, numbered 21, was also added by the Transportation Act. It is:
"The Commission may, after hearing, in a proceeding
upon complaint or upon its own initiative without complaint, authorize or require by order any carrier by railroad subject to this Act, party to such proceeding, to provide itself with safe and adequate facilities for performing as a common carrier its car service as that term is used
in this Act, and to extend its line or lines: Provided,That
no such authorization or order shall be made unless the
Commission finds, as to such extension, that it is reasonably required in the interest of public convenience and
necessity, or as to such extension or facilities that the expense involved therein will not impair the ability of the
carrier to perform its duty to the public. Any carrier
subject to this Act which refuses or neglects to comply
with any order of the Commission made in pursuance of
this paragraph shall be liable to a penalty of $100 for
each day during which such refusal or neglect continues,
interstate traffic and the carrier is unwilling to construct them, it may,
upon proper showing and after full hearing, be required to do so by
the Federal tribunal."
Compare Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co. v. Jackson & Eastern Ry.
Co., 271 U. S. 244, 248, 250.
'Chap. 23, 40 Stat. 101.
1" Chap. 91, § 402, 41 Stat. 456, 476.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

35

Opinion of the Court.

which shall accrue to the United States and may be recovered in a civil action brought by the United States."
The appellants maintain that if the Commission finds
the conditions stated in the proviso exist, the power given
to compel a carrier " to extend its line or lines " is unlimited and the way is open for an order to extend for any
distance, at any cost, for the purpose. of developing virgin
territory hitherto unreached by railroads, or for supplying
competition in a remote region served by other carriers.
The phrase "and to extend its line or lines" is part of
a single sentence committing to the Commission the
power to require carriers to provide safe and adequate
facilities for car service as defined in the act. The reasonable conclusion is, therefore, that the extensions mentioned have to do with car service, and are not intended
to create a wholly independent subject of jurisdiction. In
the proviso the furnishing of facilities and extension of
lines are blended as belonging in a single class. We
should expect, if Congress were intending to grant to the
Commission a new and drastic power to compel the investment of enormous sums for the development or service of a region which the carrier had never theretofore
entered or intended to serve, the intention would be expressed in more than a clause in a sentence dealing with
car service. As said in Interstate Commerce Commn. v.
Los Angeles, 280 U. S.52, 70:
" If Congress had intended to give an executive tribunal
unfettered capacity for requisitioning investment of
capital of the carriers and the purchase of large quantities
of land and material in an adverse proceeding, we may
well be confident that Congress would have made its
meaning far clearer and more direct than in the present
meager provisions of the Transportation Act."
Moreover, if the purpose were that claimed by the
Commission support should be found in legislative history. But none has been called to our attention. In the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the. Court.

288 U.S.

report to Congress for 1919 the Commission reiterated an
outline of the policies previously suggested for legislative
action in view of the approaching termination of federal
control." No intimation is given that carriers should be
required to build into territory they had not undertaken
to serve. The scope of the recommendation was not
enlarged in the testimony before the committee of the
Senate having the Transportation Act in charge.1 8
The terms of paragraph 18, by contrast, throw light
on the meaning of paragraph 21. The former presupposes voluntary action by a carrier, and provides that no
company shall undertake "the extension of its line of
railroad, or the construction of a new line of railroad,
. . . unless and until there shall first have been obtained
from the Commission a certificate that the present or
future public convenience and necessity require or will
require" the construction and operation thereof. The
difference of phraseology in the two paragraphs emphasizes the distinction between extensions and new lines.
The diversity is significant.
The purpose of Congress in enacting paragraph 18, as
repeatedly explained by this court, was that though a carrier -should desire to extend existing facilities or to construct new ones in territory not previously served, the free
17

In that report the Commission says, at p. 2:

"3. Limitation of railway construction to the necessities and convenience of the Government and of the public and assuring construction to the point of these limitations. . . . The thought underlying
the second part of this suggestion is that a railroad having been permitted, by public franchise and the powers that go with it, to build
into a given territory, it should be required to properly serve and
develop that territory. And in developed territory it is important to
provide for the extension of short branch or spur lines or spur tracks
to communities and industries that should be served and that can
furnish sufficient traffic to justify such extension."
Hearings before the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce, in H. R. 4378, Vol. 1, p. 53, 66th Cong., 1st Session.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

37

Opinion of the Court.

exercise of discretion should not be permitted, but the
Commission must be convinced that the proposed venture
would not drain the railroad's resources and disable it
from performing those duties of public service under
which it then rested, with consequent detriment to the
public in the matter of service and rates.1" If a railroad
company can prove that the proposal either presently or
in the reasonably near future will be self-sustaining, or so
nearly so as not unduly to burden interstate commerce,
the Commission may issue a certificate authorizing the
proposed line. Paragraph 21, on the other hand, contains
no provision whatever for new lines. If the power be as
broad as contended by the Commission there seems to be
no good reason for the omission. The same principles and
the same needs might equally require the building of a
new line as the extension of an existing one, unless, indeed, Congress recognized a radical difference between
compelling embarkation in a new venture and ordering
a mere extension of facilities required as the natural concomitant and complement of those presently used for
the rendition of the service to which the carrier has committed itself.
That paragraph 21 refers to the service the carrier has
bound itself to render is further emphasized by the omission to make the future public convenience a factor to be
considered. A presently existing public need is expressly
stated as prerequisite to the compulsory extension of a
line. On the other hand, paragraph 18, which covers voluntary construction, conditions approval on present or
future convenience or necessity. Congress therefore drew
a distinction between what might be permitted and what
compelled. These differences in the two sections were
'9 See Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S.
266, 277; Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co. v. United States, 283 U S. 35, 42.
Compare Transit Commission v. United States, 284 U. S. 360.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

disregarded by the Commission, and are overlooked by
the appellants.
We are told that if paragraph 22 be given due weight
the word "extend" in 21 must have a broader connotation than we attribute. This paragraph enacts that the
powers conferred upon the Commission by paragraphs 18
to 21, both inclusive, are not to "extend to the construction or abandonment of spur, industrial, team, switching,
or sidetracks, located or to be located wholly within one
state. .. " The argument is that if the phrase "to extend
its line" be so limited as to apply only to existing commitments of the carrier it becomes synonymous with the
matters excluded from the Commission's jurisdiction by
paragraph 22, with the result that the one becomes contradictory of the other in the matter of line extension.
The practice in the application of paragraphs 18 and 21
negatives this view. In Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co. v.
Jackson & E. Ry. Co., 271 U. S. 244, an order of the Commission made under paragraph 21 was sustained which
directed the building of a connection between two railroads for interchange of traffic near the outskirts of Jackson, Mississippi. In Railroad Commission v. Southern
Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331, 283 U. S. 380, it was held that
under paragraphs 18-21 a certificate was required for the
necessary rearrangement of main tracks to comply with
an order of the Railroad Commission of California that
the interstate carriers entering Los Angeles should combine in the construction and use of a union depot. The
court called attention (264 U. S. 345) to the palpable dis:tinction between the main line tracks of an interstate carrier and its spur, industrial, switching or sidetracks, and
declared the act exhibited the legislative intent to retain
within the control of the Commission any substantial
change in the former. Although. under the station plan
the proposed extensions of lines and main tracks were not
great in distance, they involved a new intramural desti-

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

39

Opinion of the Court.

nation for each railway attended by great expense. As
was said, the necessary outlay might well be such as to
cripple the railroads and hamper their service. Such an
extension was held to require the finding of the Interstate
Commerce Commission that the changes would not impair
the ability of the carriers to perform their public duties.
(Compare Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry.,
270 U. S. 266.)
From what has been said it is plain that an extension,
though something other than a team, switching, industrial or side track, need not, in order to be distinguished
therefrom, be a building into a new and previously unserved locality.
The cases above cited, dealing with the powers of state
authorities in the matter of extensions of lines and service,
furnish a background which must have been in the minds
both of the Commission and of the Congress at the time of
the passage of the Transportation Act. Those decisions
show that due process is denied by requiring service which
goes beyond the undertaking of the carrier. Orders for
extensions of line were sustained whenever reasonably
required in the interest of car service and for interchange
of traffic. No extension ordered for the service of new
territory had been approved.2" Wherever the state
attempted to enforce a regulation or demand extension of
'See the cases passing on state commission orders, cited supra,
notes 12 and 13; also those cited in note 24, infra. The same rule has
been applied in the case of other public service corporations. Gas or
electric light or telephone companies may be compelled to extend their
facilities within the territory covered by the franchises granted them:
New York & Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345; New York ex
rel. v. Public Service Comnm., 269 U. S. 244. But they may not be
compelled to extend their lines beyond these limits or to serve other
communities. Southern Bell Tel. Co. v. Calhoun, 287 Fed. 381; State
v. Pub. Serv. Commm., 287 Mo. 522; 229 S. W. 782; Oklahoma Nat.
Gas Co. v. Corp. Commn., 88 Okla. 51; 211 Pac. 401; United Fuel Gas
Co. v. Pub. Serv. Commn., 105 W. Va. 603; 144 S. E. 723.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

facilities outside the company's undertaking to serve the
public, the power was negatived for the very reason that
the attempted exercise called on the railroad company for
something beyond its agreement."'
The Act, reasonably construed, distinguishes between
three sorts of facilities,-new lines, or extensions, voluntarily undertaken ( T 18); compulsory extensions within
the area which the carrier has bound itself to serve (IT21) ;
and spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks located wholly within one State, which are left within state
control (ff 22). The second class is distinct from the
others and embraces, as the decisions show, a substantial
field. But this field is not, as the Commission holds,
coterminous with that created by paragraph 18. If it
were, power would exist to compel a carrier having lines
reaching Chicago and St. Louis, but none connecting those
cities, to build a railroad between them. Though in truth
a new line, the appellants would call this an extension of
the existing lines. If the grant of authority is broad
enough to support the order in the present case it would
also justify such a hypothetical requirement as we have
supposed. We cannot so read the statute, but think the
power granted by paragraph 21 is confined to extensions
within the undertaking of the carrier to serve, and cannot
be extended to embrace the building of what is essentially
a new line to reach new territory.
There is another consideration which supports the construction adopted. Our duty is to construe the statute, if
fairly possible, so as to avoid not only the conclusion that
it is unconstitutional, but also grave doubts upon that
score. 22 The views advanced by the appellants, to say the
least, raise serious questions in this respect. The rail'See note 13, supra; note 24, infra.
"Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118, 122; Russian Volunteer
Fleet v. United States, 282 U. S. 481, 492; United States v. LaFranca,
282 U. S. 568, 574.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

41

Opinion of the Court.

roads, though dedicated to a public use, remain the private property of their owners, and their assets may not be
taken without just compensation."3 The Transportation
Act has not abolished this proprietorship. State courts
have uniformly held that to require extension of existing
lines beyond the scope of the carrier's commitment to the
public service is a taking of property in violation of the
federal constitution." ' The decisions of this court will be
searched in vain for the announcement of any principle
of Constitutional interpretation which would support the
order of the Commission. The statements in New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, and Dayton-Goose

Creek Ry. v. United States, 263 U. S.456, in respect of
the purposes of the Transportation Act, on which appellants rely, must be read having in mind the situations
there presented and the nature of the orders approved.
Care was taken in those cases to demonstrate that the
sections upheld did not, in application, go beyond the
regulation of rates and the disposition of the excess over
a fair return collected by a carrier, and it was shown that
no taking or confiscation of property resulted. Those decisions are far from sustaining the validity of an order
which seeks to require the investment of millions of dollars in a new venture in undeveloped areas. Such a compulsion imposes upon the carrier and its property "burdens that are not incident to its engagement." Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota,236 U. S. at p. 595. The
"Interstate Commerce Commn. v. Chicago Great Western Ry. Co.,
209 U. S. 108, 118; Missouri Pac. Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196,
206; Northern Pac. Ry. Co.. v.North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 238 U..S. 340, 346; Banton v.
Belt Line Ry., 268 U. S. 413, 421.
M Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commn., 173 Cal. 577;
160 Pac. 828; Hollywood Chamber of Commerce v. Railroad Commn.,
192 Cal. 307; 219 Pac. 983; Public Service Commn. v. United Railways & Electric Co., 126 Md. 478; 95 At. 170; Morgan Run Ry. Co.
v. Public Utilities Commn., 98 Oh. St. 218; 120 N. E. 295.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

construction we adopt makes it unnecessary to pass upon
the grave questions of constitutional validity raised by
appellants' argument.
It is urged that as the order involved trackage amounting to only 1.2% of that now maintained by the Union
Pacific System, the requirement may properly be considered an extension rather than a new line, though a
different view might prevail if the Oregon-Washington
alone be considered. But whether the order be treated
as a command to the Oregon-Washington Company as a
separate corporate entity, or as an injunction to the Union
Pacific System, it is an attempted exertion of a power
not conferred. Assuming, without deciding, that the
Commission was entitled to treat the Oregon-Washington company as an instrument of the Union Pacific System, and the required extension, therefore, as one adding
only a small percentage to the present mileage of the
system, still the purpose is to compel a new investment
for the development of a new area at the request and in
the interest of the State of Oregon, whose desire is that
its natural resources shall be exploited."'
Finally it is claimed that however narrowly the power
to compel extensions be construed, the order was justified
by the facts developed before the Commission. They
are said to disclose an undertaking by the Oregon-Washington Company to serve the region in question. Much
" The Commission said: "It is urged that Oregon's development,
as compared with other States, has been held back and seriously
hampered, due to the lack of direct routes to the markets for her
products and that the construction of the proposed extension is an

important part of anticipated development of adequate rail transportation facilities within the State. The evidence of complainant
and defendants brings out clearly and forcibly that no section
can develop without transportation. The major portion of the State
of Oregon is without adequate transportation facilities and this is
particularly true with respect to the portion which would be served
by the proposed construction." 159 I. C. C. 635.

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

43

CAlwozo, J., disenting.

is made of the circumstance that when the complaint was
filed the company had a charter under which it was authorized to build a line on the location of that which the
order describes. The possession of the franchise is said
to give rise to an implied agreement to serve the district.
The company's having in contemplation the building of
the road would in this view render the Commission's action unassailable. But authority to build the line, if the
company were so minded, involved no commitment to
construct it.2 Though by appropriate legislation the
State might forfeit the charter for non-user, the continued
existence of the franchise imposed no obligation to exercise the charter powers. The Oregon-Washington Company chose not to serve the territory which the cross-state
line would reach; has not desired and does not now desire
to enter upon the project. The possession of a charter
which would have made the building of a railroad legal
is insignificant as to the company's actual undertaking.
Whether the railroad held itself out to serve the region
in question must be decided in the light of all the facts.
The record demonstrates that the territory to be traversed
was one the company had neither actually nor impliedly
agreed to serve with transportation facilities.
Affirmed.
The decree is
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo,

dissenting.

Unable to concur in the decision of the Court, I placa
upon record without extended argument the grounds of
my dissent.
The Transportation Act of 1920 was framed with the
design of securing to the United States an adequate and
"Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Dustin, 142 U. S. 492, 499, and cases
cited; Bentler v. Cincinnati,C. & E. Ry. Co., 180 Ky. 497; 203 S. W.
199; State v. Public Service Commn., 287 Mo. 522; 229 S. W. 782.
Compare Railroad Commission v. Eastern Texas R. Co., 264 U. S.
79, 85.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

efficient system of railroad transportation. Everything
contained in it with reference to extensions, voluntary and
involuntary, is tributary to that end, and unless related
thereto, is misconceived and misapplied. On the one
hand, the carriers are to be permitted to make voluntary
extensions of their lines, but only with the consent of the
Commission, lest waste may otherwise ensue. Texas &
Pacific Ry. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry., 270 U. S. 266, 277, 278.
On the other hand, they are made subject to a correlative
duty, if so ordered by the Commission, to build extensions,
even though unwillingly, when transportation Will otherwise be inefficient or inadequate. The limits of this duty
are not appropriately defined by dividing the field into
extensions big and little, with a power of regulation excluded from the one section and admitted in the other.
On the contrary, the word extension is to be taken in no
forced or artificial sense, but with the meaning attributed
to it in the common speech of men. It does not fairly
connote a prolongation so vast and sudden as to work an
utter transformation of the character of the road, making
what was extended the incident and the extension the
principal. The action of the Commission must have a
basis in reason, and its order must "be viewed with reference to the length and other conditions of the line or lines
to be enlarged. No doubt there is a point at which the
enlargement of a road becomes " the construction of a new
lines" (par. 18) rather than the extension of an old one.
On the other hand, the power of the Commission is not
limited to extensions that are merely trivial. The purpose of the Congress to make the power more than this,
to make it an effective instrument for the development of
railroad transportation, is revealed at every step. It is
revealed in the legislative history of the measure, and particularly in the report of the Commission explaining the
mischiefs to be remedied and recommending the fitting

1. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

45

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

cure.* It is revealed very distinctly on the face of the
statute, which provides that the extension may not be
ordered without a certificate of convenience and necessity,
nor ordered even then if the expense to be incurred "will
impair the ability of the carrier to perform its duty to the
public," a precautionary proviso that was omitted in the
requirement of adequate facilities for car service contained
in the same section, and that would surely have been
thought to be superfluous if the subject matter of the
extension was to be a short or unimportant spur. In the
case at hand, the proposed addition increases only by 1.2
per cent the mileage of the Union Pacific System, and is
to be laid across a region which the Oregon-Washington
Railroad & Navigation Company, the subsidiary most
directly affected, had marked out in its certificate of incorporation as territory that it planned to serve. An increment thus related to the thing to be increased is not
so extraordinary in size, so lacking in proportion, as to
remake or transform under the guise of improving or extending. New York & Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245
U. S. 345; Woodhaven Gas Light Co. v. Public Service
Commn., 269 U. S. 244; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 278 U. S. 300, 308, 309.
Another basis of division, in addition to that of size, is
put forward in argument as separating the extensions that
•* Of the four major recommendations made by the Commission
in its annual report of December, 1918, the third was as follows:
"(3) limitation of railway construction to the necessities and convenience of the Government and of the public, and assuring construction to the point of these limitations."
Accompanying these recommendations was a statement of their
fundamental aim or purpose. "Whatever line of policy is determined
upon, the fundamental aim or purpose should be to secure transportation systems that will be adequate to the Nation's needs, even
in time of national stress or peril, and that will furnish to the
public safe, adequate and efficient transportation at the lowest cost
consistent with that service."

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARwozo, J., dissenting.

288 US.

Congress had in view from others so substantial that they
are to be taken as excluded. We are to find the test, so
it is said, in the expectation or intention, presumable or
actual, of the corporators or stockholders. The test, however, is illusory. If expectation or intention is the measure of the power of the nation, development must always
wait upon the pleasure of the carrier affected. By hypothesis, the territory already served is the only territory
that the carrier has evinced a willingness to serve. If its
road is to be built for a' greater distance or between other
points, there is a frustration of its purpose that the terminus for construction shall be wherever stockholders and
directors have willed that it shall be. In the thought of
the lawmakers the power of the Government was not to
be conditioned upon consent. It was to operate by compulsion upon whatever came within its sphere. The railroads of the nation had been brought together by the
Transportation Act into a system of transportation
national in its dimensions and under national control.
Not the wishes of the component units, but the needs of
the public which they are organized to serve, were to give
the rule and measure for command and for obedience.
Let expectation be the test, and cases such as New York
& Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, supra, Woodhaven Gas
Light Co. v, Public Service Commn., supra, and United
Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra, must have
been decided otherwise than they were. In these instances and others, carriers serving a particular territory
were compelled to serve another in response to a public
need that the field of service be enlarged. Railroad Commission of California v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S.
331, is cited as pointing another way, but its implications
are misread. Its precise holding is that an order of a
state commission cannot coerce an interstate carrier to
make extensive changes and relocations of its main tracks
at great expense in connection with the construction of a

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

47

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

new union station, but that the consent of the Interstate
Commerce Commission is necessary in such circumstances
even though the new tracks are short. The case is far
from holding, however, that the relevant sections of the
Transportation Act apply to short additions to the exclusion of all others. On the contrary, the fact that the
additions were "not great in distance," (p. 346) even
though expensive, is recognized as giving color to the
argument that no consent is necessary. " It is argued,"
wrote Chief Justice Taft (p. 344), "that paragraphs 18 to
21 of § 402 refer only to extensions of a line of. railroad
having the purpose to include new territory to be served
by the interstate carrier and do not refer to an extension
of new main track for the mere purpose of rearranging
terminals within the same city. We do not think the
language of paragraphs 18 to 21 can be properly so limited." In such words there is surely no suggestion that
the power of the federal Commission is inadequate to
compel an extension into territory not served, nor any
acceptance of the test of presumable intention.
If the test proposed were not illusory, it would none the
less be inappropriate. The time has gone by when the
subjection of a public service corporation to control and
regulation by the agencies of government is to have its
origin and justification in the terms of a supposed contract
between the corporation and the state. The origin of the
subjection and its justification are to be found, not in
contract, but in duty, a duty imposed by law as an incident to the enjoyment of a privilege. The discretion of
managers and stockholders, at one time nearly absolute, is
now subject in countless ways to compulsion or restraint
in the interest of the public welfare. No longer may the
carrier abandon any portion of its road without the consent of the Commission, though the portion to be abandoned has been operated at a loss. 41 Stat. 477 (18); 49
U. S. Code, § 1 (18). No longer, without the consent of

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARwozo, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

the Commission, may it extend the length of its road by
its voluntary act. 49 U. S. Code, § 1 (18). No longer
may securities be issued, in the form either of stock or of
evidences of debt, unless the Commission has found the
proposed action of the carrier to be compatible with the
public good. 49 U. S. Code, § 20a. All these limitations
upon ancient rights and privifeges have had the approval
of this court. The new act, said the Chief Justice in Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456,
478, "puts the railroad systems of the country more completely than ever under the fostering guardianship of the
Commission, which is to supervise their issue of securities,
their car supply and distribution, their joint use of terminals, their construction of new lines, their abandonment
of old lines, and by a proper division of joint rates, and
by fixing adequate rates for interstate commerce, and in
case of discrimination, for intrastate commerce, to secure
a fair return upon the properties of the carriers engaged."
The argument is not persuasive that alone among all these
inroads upon the freedom of managerial discretion the
provision for compulsory extensions is to be struck down
as ineffective. As long as governmental orders are kept
within the range of reason, their operation is unaffected
by expectation or desire.
The Fifth Amendment of the Constitution is invoked
by the carriers but invoked without avail. Consistently
with that Amendment Congress may delegate to the Commission the power to force upon unwilling carriers an extension of their lines into fields of old service and of new.
Much of what has been written in this opinion as to the
meaning of the statute is pertinent also to an inquiry as
to power. Again the thought is to be kept before us that
the need of the public, not the acquiescence of the carrier,
is the measure of the service, provided only that for such
service there is adequate requital. Whether such requital
has been assured is a question not susceptible of answer

1.C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

49

CAiwozo, j., dissenting.

except in the setting of the circumstances. Objection that
it is lacking is to be viewed in the light of the entire
scheme and framework of the Act of 1920, and of all the
relevant provisions for the carriers' protection. There
must be kept in view the provision whereby rates are to
be maintained at such a level as to yield to the carriers of
the country, or to the several groups into which they are
to be divided, a fair and reasonable' return, and whereby
the surplus earnings of the strong roads may be recaptured and applied to the use of weaker ones. True indeed it is that courts are wont to lean to the construction
of a statute that will avoid serious doubts of its validity,
though they might hold it to be valid if pressed to a deoision. United States v. La Franca, 282 U. S. 568, 574;
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401. Even
so, they will not carry hesitation to the point of devitalizing the essence to preserve the husk alone. When the
scheme of the Act is viewed in the totality of its meaning
and probable operation, there is a quick end to the objection that in fixing the bounds of duty to render service to
the public, the area of the possible must coincide, at least
generally and roughly, with that of the actual and voluntary. Congress does not transcend the limits of the Constitution when it establishes a national system of transportation by rail. It does not transcend those limits when
in aid of the system thus established, it lays a duty upon
the railroads to furnish the extensions requisite for the
attainment of the end in view. The conclusion is the
same whether the immediate purpose of the order is to
develop the resources of the country in territory contiguous to roads already built, or to promote the convenience
of communities served imperfectly or not at all.
I have said that governmental orders to be valid must
be kept within the range of reason. The record gives no
support to a contention that those bounds have been exceeded. The cost of the improvement "will not impair

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CAnRozo, J., dissenting.

288 US.

the ability of the carrier or carriers involved to perform
their duty to the public." So the Commission finds, and
the fact is not disputed. The improvement when made
will be "a valuable asset to the Union Pacific System,"
and will be "an effective feeder for that system after a
reasonable development period." This finding brings us
into the realm of prophecy, and so, not unnaturally, into
the field of contention and uncertainty. Much deference
is due to the judgment of the Commission, "a tribunal
appointed by law and informed by experience" (Illinois
Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commn., 206 U. S.
441, 454; Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.
658, 665). The conclusion that it has expressed is no arbitrary judgment, but has a basis of fact and reason in
the pages of this record. But if doubt were greate' than
it is, the binding force of the decision would not thereby
be defeated. The order of the Commission does not depend for its validity upon the certainty of a prophetic
judgment as to all the consequences to follow. Once
more we are to keep in mind the changes that have been
wrought by the Transportation Act of 1920. In cases unaffected by that Act, two lines of decisions, following
separate and yet neighboring channels, are to be found in
the reports. The first, represented by Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595, and BrooksScanlon Co. v. RailroadCommn., 251 U. S.396, is made
up of cases where the return for particular services was
considered in isolation without reference to earnings generally. The second, represented by St. Louis & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Puget Sound Traction Co. v.
Reynolds, 244 U. S. 574; and United Fuel Gas Co. v.
RailroadCommission, supra, is marked by the cases where
the compulsory enlargement of the range of public service
has been held to be permissible if the combined return is
adequate for the system as a whole. By force of the Act
of 1920, the zone has been narrowed for the application of

I. C. C. v. OREGON-WASHINGTON R. CO.
14

51

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

the principle which has illustration in the first group, and
correspondingly widened for the application of the principle which has illustration in the second. Irrelevant, or
nearly so, are the decisions of this court defining the jurisdiction of the Commission as it stood before the Act of
1920 had brought a new system into being. Irrelevant
also are the decisions of state courts or of the lower federal courts determining the validity of very different statutes under which there are no compensatory guarantees
to mitigate the burden of statutory duties, the carriers
affected being viewed as separate units and not as members of a group. See, e. g. Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co. v.
Calhoun, 287 Fed. 381; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 173 Cal. 577; 160 Pac. 828; Hollywood Chamber of Commerce v. RailroadCommission, 192
Cal. 307; 219 Pac. 983. For the first time in the history
of our railroads a nationalized system of interstate transportation has made it necessary to consider the earnings
of the system, or at least the earnings of the group, in determining whether rates or profits have been unreasonably
reduced. There is nothing in this record to justify, still
less to necessitate, the conclusion that as a result of the
proposed extension the appellees, or the group of railroad
carriers including them, were to be placed in such a position that it would be impossible thereafter, through any
action of the Commission increasing rates or otherwise, to
assure to them "a fair return upon the aggregate value of
the railway property of such carriers held for and used in
transportation." Interstate Commerce Act, § 15 a (2).
This Court has said of the Transportation Act of 1920
that it "seeks affirmatively to build up a system of railways prepared to handle promptly all the interstate traffic
of the country." Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United
States, 263 U. S. 456, 478.
The end is placed in jeopardy by a construction of the
statute that debilitates the means.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

52

Statement of the Case.

288 U.S.

The judgment of the District Court should therefore
be reversed and the order of the Commission reinstated.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in

this dissent.

HAWKS ET AL. v. HAMILL ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 147. Argued December 9, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
Claiming a perpetual franchise under Oklahoma statutes to maintain
and operate a toll bridge constructed by them over a navigable
stream, plaintiffs sued state and county officers, in the federal court,
to restrain threatened interference. Jurisdiction rested on diversity
of citizenship. The case did not involve any claim of federal right,
nor the right of the plaintiffs to remove the bridge. It depended
on the purely local question whether the franchise was void ab
initio under the state constitution. Held:
1. As construed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the provision of the state constitution prohibiting "perpetuities," (Art. II,
§ 32,) includes franchises such as the perpetual franchise to operate
a toll bridge. P. 55.
2. The federal court will follow the clear and unequivocal opinion
of the state court to this effect, even though uttered after the date
of the franchise and as a considered dictum rather than a definitive
decision. P. 56.
3. Federal courts are especially reluctant to restrain the activities
of state officers where the rights set up by plaintiffs are strictly
local and jurisdiction has no other basis than the accident of residence,-the'case must be clear. P. 60.
58 F. (2d) 41, reversed.
District Court affirmed.
1

to review the reversal of a decree denying
an injunction and dismissing the bill, in a suit to restrain
state and county officers and other persons from threatened interference with the maintenance and operation of
a toll bridge.
CERTIORARI

287 U. S. 582.

1

