OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

Leaving out of consideration, then, the inference relied
upon, the case for respondent is left without any substantial support in the evidence, and a verdict in her favor
would have rested upon mere speculation and conjecture.
This, of course, is inadmissible. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.
v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472, 478; Gulf, M. & N. R. Co. v.

Wells, 275 U. S. 455, 459; New. York Central R. Co. v.
Ambrose, supra; Stevens v. The White City, supra.
The judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed and that of
the District Court is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

and MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO concur

in the result.

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC.,
STATES.

ET AL.

v. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 504. Argued January 9, 10, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.
1. Competing producers of bituminous coal formed a corporation to
act as their selling agent, with authority to set the prices. The industry was in grave distress, because of overexpansion, relatively
diminishing consumption, organized buying, and injurious marketing practices within itself; and the members of the combination
sought, through the agent, to escape those practices, promote the
sale of their coal in fair competition, and sell as much of it as
possible.'. Although they controlled a large proportion (73%) of
the commercial production in the immediate region where they
mined, the great bulk of their output was marketed in another
and highly competitive region; and in view of the vast volume
of other coal actually and potentially available, the conditions of
production, and transportation facilities, there was no basis for concluding that competition anywhere could be injuriously'affected by
the operation of their plan. Held that ther&is no present reason
for an injunction under the Sherman Act.

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

345

Syllabus.

2. The purpose of the Sherman Act is to maintain the freedom of
interstate commerce in the public interest; its restrictions are not
mechanical or artificial but are to be construed by the essential
standard of reasonableness. P. 359.
3. The Act does not seek to establish a delusive liberty of interstate
commerce by making normal and fair expansion impossible; it does
not prevent those engaged in that commerce from adopting reasonable measures to protect it from injurious and destructive practices
and to promote competition upon a sound basis. P. 360.
4. The mere fact that the parties to a combination eliminate competition among themselves is not enough to condemn it. The question is one of intent and effect, not to be determined by arbitrary
assumptions, but by close and objective scrutiny of the particular
conditions and purposes in each case. Pp. 360, 375.
5. Good intentions will not save a plan otherwise objectionable under
the Sherman Act; but knowledge of actual intent is an aid in the
interpretation of facts and prediction of consequences. P. 372.
6. A coperative enterprise is not to be condemned as an undue restraint because it may effect a change in market conditions, where
the change would be in mitigation of recognized evils and would not
impair, but rather would foster, fair competitive opportunities.
P. 373.
7. A co~iperative plan of competing producers can not be held illegal
merely because they do not integrate their properties in a single
corporation but keep their plants independent. In either case the
test is the same: Is there an unreasonable restraint of trade or an
attempt to monopolize? P. 374.
8. A suit under the Sherman Act to enjoin a combination is governed
by the principles of equitable relief; and to warrant an injunction
there must be a definite factual showing of illegality. P. 377.
9. Where a trade agreement was attacked and sustained under the
Sherman Act before it was put in operation, the case being decided
upon the purposes of the participants and the probable consequences
of their plan, the decree directed the District Court to dismiss the
bill without prejudice, but to retain jurisdiction, to the end that,
should results of the plan in actual operation prove contrary to the
Act, the case might be rbopened by that court for further proceedings by the Government and the voluminous testimony already
taken remain available in that event. P. 37R.
1 F. Supp. 339, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appelants.
APPEAL

288 U.S.

from a decree of the District Court composed

of three circuit judges granting an injunction against ,a
combination of producers of bituminous coal, in a suit
by the Government under the Sherman Antitrust Act.
Messrs. Win. J. Donovan and Edgar L. Greever, with
whom Mr. Horace R. Lamb was on the brief, for
appellants.
An agreement among competitors for the purpose of
promoting .efficiency and economy, even though it restricts the competition formerly existing between the parties, is not prohibited by the Sherman Act, unless either
(a) an intent unreasonably to restrain or to monopolize
interstate commerce is implied in the acts or the circumstances, or (b), by reason of its inherent nature, the combination will have the direct and necessary effect of
restraining or monopolizing interstate commerce. Nash
v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United States v. U. S. Steel
Corp., 251 U. S. 417.
The appellants contend that, like the combination upheld in the Steel case, Appalachian Coals, Inc., represents
a combination for the purpose of achieving economies and
.promoting efficiency in the sale of bituminous coal. It
may be pointed out that in the Steel case the Court found
that any intent and purpose to restrain or monopolize
commerce had been abandoned, and that the sole question to be determined by the Court was whether the size
attained and the power acquired were sufficient to make
the combination illegal. In this case there is no illegal
purpose to be abandoned, but, on the contrary, the testimony affirmatively establishes a lawful purpose. It may
be pointed out that Appalachian Coals, Inc., is not an
attempt at the same kind of integration as the Court considered in the Steel case. It is obvious that integration is

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

347

Argument for Appellants.

not in itself a test of legality, but is merely evidence of a
lawful purpose. Integration as it existed in -the steel
industry had no place in the production and sale of coal.
Each of the purposes for which Appalachian Coals, Inc.,
was organized was directly related to the peculiar conditions existing in the bituminous coal industry and was
calculated to promote efficiency and achieve economies in
the coal industry just as integration was intended to
achieve economies in the production of steel. Accordingly, the District Court found that Appalachian Coals,
Inc., was intended to supplement orders for one grade of
coal with orders for the other grades which were necessarily produced as an incident to the first grade. This
distribution of orders is necessary to prevent the further
breakdown of the industry resulting from the forced sale
of coal of all grades for which there are no orders but
which are necessarily produced in complying with contracts of sale for a particular grade. This is the type of
integration best adapted to the coal industry. Such integration not only is desirable but it is essential if the
price of coal is to be determined in a normal competitive
market.
The District Court distinguished the Steel case on the
ground that the combination was corporate in form and
apparently from this fact alone it concluded that the
Steel Corporation had resulted "from normal growth
and development." The U. S. Steel Corporation was a
holding company. While such a holding company may
have been a normal and usual method of conducting
business at that time, it may be doubted whether it is
still a normal method in view of the provisions of § 7
of the Clayton Act. But there can be no doubt that
exclusive common selling agencies are usual and normal
methods of combining selling facilities in the coal industry, composed of thousands of small and independent
producers of coal who can operate only if their product
is distributed over a widely scattered market.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

288 U.S.

The District Court recognized the practical necessity
of selling agents when it stated in its opinion that common exclusive selling agents "would not be condemned
in the absence of an actual intent to eliminate competition and affect prices." In the case at bar there is affirmative evidence of a lawful purpose and this evidence is
supported by the findings of the court below. The
inference to be drawn from the court's statement that
an actual intent to eliminate competition is present in
this case, is directly contrary to all the evidence and to
the findings of fact. Obviously, the Steel case could not
have held that a combination large enough to "affect"
prices was illegal, for every transaction in the market,
whether large or small, "affects" prices; and the Steel
Corporation controlled the production of approximately
fifty per cent. of the entire steel industry.
The rule of law applied in the Steel case was not new.
The corArolling principle finds its roots in the English
common law. Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, (1892)
A. C. 25.
It is not disputed that certain kinds of conduct not
criminal in any one individual may become criminal if
done by several. But that doctrine has no application
to an agreement or a combination of capital for a lawful
purpose, namely to achieve economies in trade, where,
as here, the activities of the combination are reasonably
confined to the accomplishment of that purpose.
If the distinction drawn by the District Court between
open co~peration between small competitive units to
accomplish economies in industry, and corporate consolidations or corporate holding companies, is to be sustained, the effect will be to retard the normal growth of
the small, poorly financed business unit and to subsidize
corporations of sufficient size and financial strength to
effect corporate consolidations or mergers. The effect of
the application of this principle was pointed out by Mr.

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

349

Argument for Appellants.

Justice Brandeis in his dissenting opinion in American
Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377, 418.
The following decisions indicate that combinations for
the purpose of promoting trade by achieving economies
and by the introduction of more effective sales methods,
are not forbidden by the Sherman Act, even though they
incidentally eliminate competition formerly existing between the parties. Whitewell v. Continental Tobacco
Co., 125 Fed. 454, 458; Chicago Board of Trade v. United
States, 246 U. S. 231; United States v. Terminal R. R.
Assn., 224 U. S. 383, 404; American Press Assn. v. United,
States, 245 Fed. 91; National Assn. of Window Glass
Mfrs. v. United States, 263 U. S. 403; United States v.
InternationalHarvester Co., 274 U. S. 693; International
Shoe Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 280 U. S. 291; Robinson v. Suburban Brick Co., 127 Fed. 804; Arkansas
BrokerageCo. v. Dunn, 173 Fed. 899; Nordenfelt v. Nordenfelt Co., (1894) A. C. 535.
A. As to intent. The agency was formed pursuant to
a controlling and lawful purpose; and the restraint upon
interstate shipments, if any, is incidental to the accomplishment of that lawful end, and therefore not unreasonable within the meaning of the Sherman Act. See United
States v. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co., 85 Fed. 271, 282;
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 177.
The primary purpose being to sell more coal and to
develop an efficient, economical and effective marketing
organization and to eliminate so far as possible the destructive trade practices growing out of the sale of "distress" coal and the "pyramiding" of orders, it is obvious
that these purposes could only be achieved by joint action.
The evidence shows that a selling organization of the
size and financial strength of Appalachian Coals, Inc., was
essential if the widespread consuming markets were to be
effectively reached by all the producers and if the destructive trade practices were to be materially lessened. More-

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

288 US.

over, if the destructive practice of "pyramiding" coal was
to be eliminated as far as the defendants were concerned,
it was necessary that Appalachian Coals, Inc., be made an
exclusive selling agent.
The further question is presented whether an illegal
intent is to be implied from the fact that Appalachian
Coals, Inc., will be a large competitive unit. The size of
Appalachian Coals, Inc., and its power over the market
are in no sense comparable to that which the Supreme
Court was considering in the Standard Oil case. In that
case it appeared that the combination had the power to
control and in fact did control the price of crude petroleum. The evidence in this case shows that Appalachian
Coals, Inc., will not have the power to set the market
price for coal in any market in which it will sell, and the
District Court so found.
No intent to restrain or monopolize interstate commerce is to be inferred from the form of organization
adopted.
The Sherman Act permits the making of normal and
usual contracts to further trade by normal methods,
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 179;
Moore v. New York Cotton Exchange, 296 Fed. 61.
B. As for the direct and necessary effect of the organization. It will not have the power to dominate or set the
price of coal in any consuming market.
A practical consideration is that Appalachian Coals,
Inc., could be dissolved with the greatest ease. A mere
cancellation of the agency contracts would restore the defendants to their present competitive positions. There
is, therefore, not the same degree of danger to the public
as in the case of a consolidation or merger, for in that case
any abuse of power can be effectively dealt with only by
dissolution.
The true test of monopoly of a market or restraint of
trade is not whether in some mysterious way the sales

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

351

Argument for Appellants.

of the combination may affect prices, or even whether it
will be an important and influential factor in the industry. The true test is not the size of the combined companies, but the competitive strength of the companies
that are not acquired. United States v. U. S. Steel Corp.,
223 Fed. 55, 68; United States v. U. S. Steel Corp., 251
U. S. 417, 449; United States v. International Harvester
Co., 274 U. S. 693.
The strength of the principle embodied in the Sherman
Act is found in its flexibility in meeting changing conditions. What is restraint of trade and what is the public
interest, are currently determined by the changing conditions of a growing and progressive civilization. No rule
of thumb defining these terms has ever been formulated,
nor is it possible to do so. Maple FlooringAssn. v. United
States, 268 U. S.563, 579.
The decision of the trial court appears to be based upon
the idea that the contracts between Appalachian Coals,
Inc., and the producer defendants constitute a price-fixing
agreement, and that any price-fixing agreement is, per se,
unlawful. The language of the contracts expressly negatives that theory. The selling agent must sell all the
coal it can and sell it at the market price. There is only
one thing that can prevent it from selling all such coal,
namely, that the demand is not sufficient to " absorb" it.
The fact is that the selling agent has the power to name
an asking price, but it is its duty to accept some offer that
is made it, namely, the one that it believes to be the best
"obtainable under existing competitive c6nditions?' Distinguishing: Chesapeake & Ohio Fuel Co. v. United
States, 115 Fed. 610.
The effect on the market price of offering coal for sale
in any market depends upon many things, among lhtm
the demand and the total amount of coal offered.. These
factors make the market price. Other things being equal,
the more coal offered, the less the market price. If all

OCTOBER TERM. 1932.
Argument for the United States.

288 U.S.

agreements are to be condemned whR' "affect" prices,
there must be an end of all trade.
It is true that they have heretofore sold a substantial
part of the coal sold in some of the markets where they
sell, but they have no control over any of these markets,
or over any trade therein, but must meet the keenest kind
of competition everywhere.
The testimony also indicates that the effect of these
contracts will not be to destroy competition between
these defendant producers in any market, except to a
certain extent where the coals are identical in quality.
Even then, there will remain competition between identical coals for the reason that the coalsof certain producers
being sold under trade names will move more freely than
the coal of other producers.
As8istant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Charles H. Weston
and Hammond E. Chaffetz were on the brief, for the
United States.
The evidence fully supports the finding of the District
Court that the effect of appellants' combination is to
eliminate all competition among themselves and to fix
uniform prices at which tI~eir product will be offered for
sale. It also supports the court's conclusion that the elimination of competition and the consequent effect on prices
are "the very crux of the plan." From the inception of
the regional sales agency plan it was contemplated that
its adoption in any district should be contingent upon
securing control of a certain percentage of the production.
The agreement among the defendant producers that their
agency contracts with Appalachian Coals should not become effective ,until the latter controlled 70% of the commercial production in Appalachian territory, shows the
same purpose even more directly.
Appellants have enumerated economies, increased
sales, joint research, advertising and credit information,

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

353

Argument for the United States.

and the partial elimination of "pyramiding" and distress coal as among the primary purposes of their combination. It is pertinent to inquire whether it was necessary to set up an exclusive sales agency, with power to
fix uniform prices, in order to achieve these ends, and
whether this agency plan will materially change marketing methods, apart from restraint of trade. The plan
will not- bring economies in the marketing of coal or
increase sales. Joint research, advertising, and credit
information can be undertaken without adopting this
exclusive sales agency plan. " Pyramiding" appears to
be only a minor incident in the sale of bituminous coal.
Appellants' combination will bring little relief in the
matter of distress coal.
In appraising these alleged purposes, the Court must
consider whether appellants' unwillingness to effect an
organization.to achieve them alone does not indicate that
they are not the primary purpose of this combination.
The Court must determine whether appellants surrendered a large measure of individual freedom, and
assumed substantial financial obligations, chiefly to
secure such intangible benefits as may result from joint
advertising and research, or a decrease in "pyramiding"
and distress coal. We maintain that the real purpose of
the combination is parallel with its outstanding effect,
namely, the suppression of competition.
The District Court found, that concerted action and
elimination of competition, through the combination,
will affect market conditions and tend to raise prices
to a higher level than would prevail under conditions
of free competition. It found that appellants will not
have monopoly control of any market or power to fix
monopoly prices.
These findings of the District Court must be read in the
light of its other findings and of the evidence. The power
of Appalachian Coals to control price will not be

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument-for the United States.

288 U.S.

seriously affected by the competition of independent
producers in Appalachian territory. Generally speaking,
it is the large producers which have joined the combination and the small producers which thus far have stayed
out. Both self-interest and business prudence will dictate a policy of accepting the price leadership of Appalachian Coals and endeavoring, upon this basis, to obtain
a fair share of the market. The organization of regional
sales agencies in other districts, which is already far
advanced and only awaits the favorable outcome of this
litigation to be completed, will increase the power, of
Appalachian Coals to affect and control price. Changes
in conditions, such as widespread strikes, or a jroduction
tax, would greatly increase this power, any sudden change
in supply or demand being sharply reflected in price.
Another important factor in the competitive situation is
that certain producing districts have an advantage in
certain maarkets which these producers can translate into
higher prices if they are permitted to eliminate competition among themselves.
A review of the competitive situation in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Ohio, Michigan, Tennessee,
and Kentucky shows that Appalachian Coals will control
more than 50% of the business in bituminous coal in
important interstate markets in each of these States.
The Sherman Act must be interpreted so as to effectuate
its policy and purpose. Congress, in prohibiting restraints of trade and monopolies, adopted the view that
the public interest was best served by the maintenance of
free competition; and the courts, in construing the Act,
may not adopt other criteria of the public interest. If
there are conflicting considerations which render it doubtful whether the policy of the Sherman Act is working to
the best social advantage in a particular industry, it is for
Congress, not the courts, to grant relief. United States V.
American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371, 388; Paramount
Famous Lasky Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30, 43;

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

S55

Argument for the United States.

United States v. Trenton PotteriesCo., 273 U. S. 392, 397;
StandardSanitaryMfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20,
49. Furthermore, it does not appear that appellants'
sales agency plan will remedy the basic problem of the
bituminous coal industry, and it is probably economically
unsound.
Appellants' principal defense seems to be that there is
no difference in legal or economic effect between their
combination and a union of competitors under single
ownership. They assert that a merger is not illegal unless it attains or exercises monopolistic power, and that
their combination will not give them such power.
Appellants recognize that a combination formed for the
purpose of suppressing competition, whether in the form
of a merger or otherwise, is illegal. Therefore, if we have
correctly analyzed the primary purposes of appellants'
combination, it is illegal upon appellants' view of the
law. Moreover, the Steel and Harvester cases, upon
which appellants rely, do not establish any legal principle of general application, except that the size of a
corporation or its unexerted power is not in itself an
offense under the Sherman Act. In addition, appellants'
premise is not correct. Although mergers necessarily result in the elimination of the competition previously existing between the merged units, this consequential
elimination of competition is usually merely incidental to
a normal, legitimate business undertaking.
On the other hand, the abnormality of appellants' arrangement is shown by the fact that Appalachian Coals
was created, not to displace sales agencies now operating,
but to provide a medium for exercising price controL The
abnormality of the plan is further shown by the fact that
137 different producers have given to a common agent the
power to fix the price at which their product shall be sold.
The provisions for allocating business create a definitely
static condition among members of the group and likewise stamp the combination with abnormality. It does

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

not represent a normal trade development, but is essentially a "plan ' " imposed from above to bring about a
change in competitive conditions.
While the analogy between this combination and a
merger of competing units is remote, cases dealing with
agreements not to compete or to sell at uniform prices
are directly in point. A review of the decisions of this
Court shows that it has always held or assumed that
agreements of this character among a group large enough
to affect the market are illegal under the Sherman Act.
United States v. U. S. Steel Corp., 251 U. S.417; United
States v. International Harvester Co., 274 U. S. 693;
United States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S.26; United States
v. Trans-Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; United
States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505; Addyston
Pipe& Steel Co. v. 'UnitedStates, 175 U. S.211; Dr. Miles
Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S.373; Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.1; American Column &
Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.377.
Messrs. Walker D. Hines, Goldthwaite H. Dorr and
Wilson Compton, by leave of Court, filed a brief as
amici curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This suit was brought to enjoin a combination alleged to
be in restraint of interstate commerce in bituminous coal
and in attempted monopolization of part of that commerce, in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman AntiTrust Act, 26 Stat. 209. The District Court, composed of
three Circuit Judges, made detailed findings of fact and
entered final decree granting the injunction. 1 F. Supp.
339. The case comes here on appeal. 28 U. S. C., 380.
Defendants, other than Appalachian Coals, Inc., are 137
producers of bituminous coal in eight districts (called for

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

357

Opinion of the Court.

convenience Appalachian territory) lying in Virginia,
West Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee. These districts,
described as the .Southern High Volatile Field, form part
of the coal-bearing area stretching from central and western Pennsylvania through eastern Ohio, western Maryland, West Virginia, southwestern Virginia, eastern Kentucky, eastern Tennessee, and northeastern Alabama. In
1929 (the last year for which complete statistics were
available) the total production of bituminous coal east of
the Mississippi river was 484,786,000 tons, of which defendants mined 58,011,367 tons, or 11.96 per cent. In the
so-called Appalachian territory and the immediately surrounding area, the total production was 107,008,209 tons,
of which defendants' production was 54.21 per cent, or 64
per cent if the output of 'captiVe' mines (16,455,001
tons) be deducted.1 With a further deduction of 12,000,000
tons of coal produced in the immediately surrounding
territory, which, however, is not essentially different from
the particular area described in these proceedings as Appalachian territory, defendants' production in the latter
region was found to amount to 74.4 per cent.'
The challenged combination lies in the creation by the
defendant producers of an exclusive selling agency. This
agency is the defendant Appalachian Coals, Inc., which
may be designated as the Company. Defendant producers own all its capital stock, their holdings being in
' "Captive"

mines are thus designated as they produce chiefly for

the consumption of the owners.
' Defendants contend that, in calculating their position upon a percentage basis, surrounding territory should be included and that their
percentage thus lies "somewhere between 54-21 and 64 per cent."
The District Court found: "The coal produced in the surrounding
territory is the same kind of coal as that produced in the Appalachian
territory and is suitable for the same purposes and available to the
same markets, generally on the same freight rates, and for all practical purposes might have been included in the territory described as
Appalachian territory."

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U2.

proportion to their production. The majority of the common stock, which has exclusive voting right, is held by
seventeen defendants. By uniform contracts, separately
made, each defendant producer constitutes the Company
an exclusive agent for the sale of all coal (with certain
exceptions) which the producer mines in Appalachian
territory.8 The Company agrees to establish standard
classifications, to sell all the coal of all its principals at
the best prices obtainable and, if all cannot be sold, to
apportion orders upon a stated basis. The plain contemplates that prices are to be fixed by the officers of the
Company at its central office, save that, upon contracts
calling for future deliveries after sixty days, the Company must obtain the producer's consent. The Company
is to be paid a commission of ten per cent of the gross
selling prices f. o. b. at the mines, and guarantees
accounts. In order to preserve their existing sales' outlets, the producers may designate sub-agents, according
to an agreed form of contract, who are to sell upon the
terms and prices established by the Company and are to
be allowed by the Company commissions of eight per
cent. The Company has not yet begun to operate as
selling agent; the contracts with it run to April 1, 1935,
and from year to year thereafter unless terminated by
either party on six months' notice.
The Government's contention, which the District
Court sustained, is that the plan violates the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act,-in the view that it eliminates competition among the defendants themselves and also gives the
selling agency power substantially to affect and control,
the price of bituminous coal in many interstate markets.
On the latter point the District Court made the general
finding that "this elimination of competition and con'Exception is made of deliveries on contracts then outstanding and
of coal used in the operations of defendant's mines or sold to its
employees.

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

350

Opinion of the Court.

certed action will affect market conditions, and have a
tendency to stabilize prices and to raise prices to a higher
level than would prevail under conditions of free competition." The court added that the selling agency "will not
have monopoly control of any market nor the power to
fix monopoly prices."
Defendants insist that the primary purpose of the
formation of the selling agency was to increase the sale,
and thus the production, of Appalachian coal through
better methods of distribution, intensive advertising and
research; to achieve economies in marketing, and to eliminate abnormal, deceptive and destructive trade practices.
They disclaim any intent to restrain or monopolize interstate commerce; and in justification of their design
they point to the statement of the District Court that " it
is but due to defendants to say that the evidence in the
case clearly shows that they have been acting fairly and
openly, in an attempt to organize the coal industry and to
relieve the deplorable conditions resulting from overexpansion, destructive competition, wasteful trade practices, and the inroads of competing industries." 1 F.
Supp., p. 341. Defendants contend that the evidence
establishes that the selling agency will not have the power
to dominate or fix the price of coal in any consuming market; that the price of coal will continue to be set in an
open competitive market; and that their plan by increasing the sale of bituminous coal from Appalachian territory will promote, rather than restrain, interstate commerce.
First. There is no question as to the test to be applied in
determining the legality of the defendants' conduct. The
purpose of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act is to prevent
undue restraints of interstate commerce, to maintain its.
appropriate freedom in the public interest, to afford protection from the subversive or coercive influences of monopolistic endeavor. As a charter of freedom, the Act

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

has a generality and adaptability comparable to that
found to be desirable in constitutional provisions. It does
not go into detailed definitions which might either work
injury to legitimate enterprise or through particularization defeat its purposes by providing loopholes for escape.
The restrictions the Act imposes are not mechanical or
artificial. Its general phrases, interpreted to attain its
fundamental objects, set up the essential standard of
reasonableness. They call for vigilance in the detection
and frustration of all efforts unduly to restrain the free
course of interstate commerce, but they do not seek to
establish a mere delusive liberty either by making impossible the normal and fair expansion of that commerce or
the adoption of reasonable measures to protect it from
injurious and destructive practices and to promote competition upon a sound basis. The decisions establish, said
this Court in Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376,
"that only such contracts and combinations are within
the act as, by reason of intent or the inherent nature of
the contemplated acts, prejudice the public interests by
unduly restricting competition or unduly obstructing the
course of trade." See Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221
U. S. 106; Chicago Board of Trade v. United States, 246
U. S. 231, 238; Window Glass Manufacturers v. United
States, 263 U. S. 403, 412; Maple Flooring Association v.
United States, 268 U. S.563, 583, 584; ParamountFamous
Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30, 43; StandardOil Co.
v. United States, 283 U. S. 163, 169.
In applying this test, a close and objective scrutiny of
particular conditions and purposes is necessary in each
case. Realities must dominate the judgment. The mere
fact that the parties to an agreement eliminate competition between themselves is not enough to condemn it.
"The legality of an agreement or regulation cannot be
determined by so simple a test, as whether it restrains

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

361

Opinion of the Court.

competition. Every agreement concerning trade, every
regulation of trade, restrains." Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, supra. The familiar illustrations of partnerships, and enterprises fairly integrated in the interest of
the promotion of commerce, at once occur. The question
of the application of the statute is one of intent and effect,
and is not to be determined by arbitrary assumptions. It
is therefore necessary in this instance to consider the
economic conditions peculiar to the coal industry, the
practices which have obtained, the nature of defendant's
plan of making sales, the reasons which led to its adoption,
and the probable consequences of the carrying out of that
plan in relation to market prices and other matters affecting the public interest in interstate commerce in bituminous coal.
Second. The findings of the District Court, upon abundant evidence, leave no room for doubt as to the economic
condition of the coal industry. That condition, as the
District Court states, "for many years has been indeed
deplorable." Due largely to the expansion under the
stimulus of the Great War, "the bituminous mines of the
country have a developed capacity exceeding 700,000,000
tons" to meet a demand "of less than 500,000,000 tons."
In connection with this increase in surplus production, the
consumption of coal in all the industries which are its
largest users has shown a substantial relative decline.
The actual decrease is partly due to-the industrial condition but the relative decrease is progressing, due entirely
to other causes. Coal has been losing markets to oil, natural gas and water power and has also been losing ground
due to greater efficiency in the use of coal. The change
has been more rapid during the last few years by reason
of the developments of both oil and gas fields. The court
below found that "Based upon the assumption that bituminous coal would have maintained the upward trend prevailing between 1900 and 1915 in percentage of total

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

energy supply in the United States, the total substitution
between 1915 and 1930 has been equal to more than 200,000,000 tons per year." ' While proper allowance must be
made for differences in consumption in different parts of
the country,5 the adverse influence upon the coal industry,
including the branch of it under review, of the use of substitute fuels and of improved methods is apparent.
This unfavorable condition has been aggravated by
particular practices. One of these relates to what is
called "distress coal." The greater part of the demand
is for particular sizes of coal such as nut and slack, stove
coal, egg coal, and lump coal. Any one size cannot be prepared without making several sizes. According to the
finding of the court below, one of the chief problems of
'fThefindings show that "The number of domestic oil burners in
use has increased more than sixty fold_ ..

from 1921 to 1931 ...

About fifty per cent of all oil burners, both domestic and commercial,
are in the markets in which Appalachian coals are, sold. The railroads have improved combustion methods and reduced their fuel constumption from 1916 to 1929 by 32,000,000 tons. In freight service,
their consumption of coal per thousand freight ton miles dropped
from 164 pounds in 1919 to 125 pounds in 1929. The electric industries decreased consumption of coal per kilowatt hour from approximately 3.2 pounds to 1.6 pounds and thereby reduced their requirements for coal in excess of 47,000,000 tons. Efficiency in the smelting
of pig iron decreased the consumption of coal in relation to the pig
iron made by 10,000,000 tons. The saving in by-product coke manufactures over the bee hive system amounted to 12,000,000 tons."
"The court below points out that "the use of natural gas and fuel
oil is limited to certain areas. Gas is not available to all sections of
the country and the great centers of fuel oil consumption axe California, the southwest, the midcontinent'field and the Atlantic seaboard.
Moreover, in the States in which Appalachian coal is chiefly marketed, the substitute fuels combined supply only about ten per cent
of the total energy consumption. In the year 1929 about fifty per
cent of defendants' coal, other than railroad fuel, went into the.States
of Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Illinois." In these States the percentage of total energy consumption derived from bituminous coal in
1929 ranged from 88,7 per cent to 92.7 per cent.

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

Opinion of the Court.

the industry is thus involved in the practice "of producing different sizes of coal even though orders are on
hand for only one size, and the necessity of marketing all
sizes." Usually there are no storage facilities at the
mines and the different sizes produced are placed in cars
on the producer's tracks, which may become so congested
that either production must be stopped or the cars must
be moved regardless of demand. This leads to the practice of shipping unsold coal to billing points or on consignment to the producer or his agent in the consuming
territory. If the coal is not sold 'bythe time it reaches
its destination, and is not unloaded promptly, it becomes
subject to demurrage, charges which may exceed the
amount obtainable for the coal unless it is sold quickly.
The court found that this type of "distress coal" presses
on the market at all times, includes all sizes and grades,
and the total amount from all causes is of substantial
quantity.
"Pyramiding" of coal is another "destructive practice." It occurs when a producer authorizes several persons to sell the same coal, and they may in turn offer it
for sale to other dealers. In consequence "the coal competes with itself, thereby resulting in abnormal and destructive competition which depresses the price for all
coals in the market." Again, there is misrepresentation
by some producers in selling one size of coal and shipping
another size which they happen to have on hand. "The
lack of standardization of sizes and the misrepresentation
as to sizes" are found to have been injurious to the coal
industry as a whole. The court added, however, that the
evidence did not show the existence of any trade war or
widespread fraudulent conduct. The industry also suffers through "credit losses," which are due to the lack
of agencies for the collection of comprehensive data with
respect to the credits that can safely be extended.
In addition to these factors, the District Court found
that organized buying agencies, and large consumers

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 UB.

purchasing substantial tonnages, "constitute unfavorable
forces." "The highly organized and concentrated buying power which they control and the great abundance
of coal available have contributed to make the market
for coal a buyers' market for many years past."
It also appears that the "unprofitable condition" of
the industry has existed partiqularly in the Appalachian
territory where there is little local consumption, as the
region is not industrialized. "The great bulk of the coal
there produced is sold in the highly competitive -egion
east of the Mississippi river and north of the Ohio river
under an adverse freight rate which imposes an unfavorable differential -from 35 cents to 50 cents per ton." 8
And in a graphic summary of the economic situation, the
court found that "numerous producing companies have
gone into bankruptcy or into the hands of receivers, many
mines have been shut down, the number of days of operation per week have been greatly curtailed, wages to labor
have been substantially lessened, and the States in which
coal producing companies are located'have found it increasingly difficult to collect taxes."
Third. The findings also fully disclose the proceedings
of the defendants in formulating their plan and the reasons for its adoption. The serious economic conditions
had led to discussions among coal operators and state and
national officials, seeking improvement of the industry.
Governors of States had held meetings with coal producers. The limits of official authority were apparent.
A general meeting of producers, sales agents and attorneys was held in New York in October, 1931, a committee
was appointed and various suggestions were considered.
At a second general meeting in December, 1931, there
was further discussion and a report which recommended
Defendants insist that "the real spread is from 25 cents to $1.84
per ton."

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

365

Opinion of the Court.

the organization of regional sales agencies, and was supported by the opinion of counsel as to the legality of proposed forms of contract, was approved. Committees to
present the plan to producers were constituted for
eighteen producing districts including the eight districts
in Appalachian territory. Meetings of the representatives of the latter districts resulted in the organization
of defendant Appalachian Coals, Inc. It was agreed that
a minimum of 70 per cent and a maximum of 80 per cent
of the commercial tonnage of the territory should be secured before the plan should become effective. Approximately 73 per cent was obtained. A resolution to fix the
maximum at 90 per cent was defeated. The maximum of
80 per cent was adopted because a majority of the producers felt that an organization with a greater degree of
control might unduly restrict competition in local markets. The minimum of 70 per cent was fixed because it
was agreed that the organization would not be effective
without this degree of control. The court below also
found that it was the expectation that similar agencies
would be organized in other producing districts including
those which were competitive with Appalachian coal, and
that it was "the particular purpose of the defendants .in
the Appalachian territory to secure such degree of control therein as would eliminate competition. among the
73 per cent of the commercial production." But the
court added: "However, the formation of Appalachian
Coals was not made dependent upon the formation of
other regional selling agencies and there is no evidence
of a purpose, understanding or agreement among the defendants that in the event of the formation of other similar regional sales agencies there would be any understanding or agreement, direct or indirect, to divide the market
territory between them or to limit production or to fix
the price of coal in any market or to cooperate in any
way." When, in January, 1932, the Department of Jus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

tice announced its adverse opinion, the producers outside
Appalachian territory decided to hold their plans in abeyance pending the determination of the question by the
courts. The District Court found that "the evidence
tended to show that other selling agencies with a control
of at least 70 per cent of the production in their respective
districts will be organized if the petition in this case is
dismissed "; that in that event "there will result an
organization in most of the districts whose coal is or may
be competitive with Appalachian coal; but the testimony
tends to show that there will still be substantial, active
competition in the sale of coal in all markets in which
Appalachian coal is sold."
Defendants refer to the statement of purposes in their
published plan of organization,-that it was intended to
bring about "a better and more orderly marketing of
the coals from the region to be served by this company
(the selling agency) and better to enable the producers
in this region, through the larger and more economic
facilities of such selling agency, more equally to compete
in the general markets for a fair share of the available coal
business." The District Court found that among their
purposes, defendants sought to remedy "the destructive
practice of shipping coal on consignment without prior
orders for the sale thereof, which results in the dumping of
coal on the market irrespective of the demand "; "to
eliminate the pyramiding of offers for the sale of coal ";
to promote "the systematic study of the marketing and
distribution of coal, the demand and the consumption and
the kinds and grades of coal made and available for shipment by each producer in order to improve conditions";
to maintain an inspection and engineering department
which would keep in constant contact with customers
"in order to demonstrate the advantages and suitability of Appalachian coal in comparison with other competitive coals "; to promote an extensive advertising

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

367

Opinion of the Court.

campaign which would show "the advantages of using
coal as a fuel and the advantages of Appalachian coal particularly "; to provide a research department employing
combustion engineers which would demonstrate "proper
and efficient methods of burning coal in factories and in
homes" and thus aid producers in their competition with
substitute fuels; and to operate a credit department
which would build up a record with respect to the "reliability of purchasers." The court also found that "Defendants believe that the result of all these activities
would be the more economical sile of coal, and the economies would be more fully realized as the organization
of the selling agent is perfected and developed." But in
view of the designation of sub-agents, economies in selling
expenses would be attained "only after a year or so of
operation."
No attempt was made to limit production. The producers decided that it could not legally be limited and, in
any event, it could not be limited practically. The finding is that "it was designed that the producer should produce and the selling agent should sell as much coal as
possible." The importance of increasing sales is said to
lie in the fact that the cost of production is directly
related to the actual running time of the mines.
Fourth. Voluminous evidence was received with respect to the effect of defendants' plan upon market prices.
As the plan has not gone into operation, there are no
actual results upon which to base conclusions. The question is necessarily one of prediction. The court below
found that, as between defendants themselves, competition would be eliminated. This was deemed to be the
necessary consequence of a common selling agency with
power to fix the prices at which it would make sales for
its principals. Defendants insist that the finding is too
broad and that the differences in grades of coal of the
same sizes, and the market demands at different times,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

would induce competition between the coals sold by the
agency "depending upon the use and the quality of the
coals."
The more serious question relates to the effect of the
plan upon competition between defendants and other producers. As already noted, the District Court found that
"the great bulk" of the coal produced in Appalachian
territory is sold "in the highly competitive region east of
the Mississippi river and north of the Ohio river under an
adverse freight rate." Elaborate statistics were introduced with respect to the production and distribution of
bituminous coal and the transportation rates from the
different producing sections to the consuming markets, as
bearing upon defendants' competitive position, together
with evidence as to the requirements of various sections
and consumers and the relative advantages possessed by
reason of the different qualities and uses of the coals produced. It would be impossible to make even a condensed
statement of this evidence, (which has been carefully
analyzed by both parties,) but an examination of it fails to
disclose an adequate basis for the conclusion that the operation of the defendants' plan would produce an injurious
effect upon competitive conditions, in view of the vast
volume of coal available, the conditions of production, and
the network of transportation facilities at immediate command. While strikes and interruptions of transportation
may create temporary and abnormal dislocations, the
bituminous coal industry under normal conditions affords
most exceptional competitive opportunities. Figures as
to developed and potential productive capacity are impressive. The court below found upon this point that the
capacity of the mines in the Appalachian region operated
by others than defendants is 82,660,760 tons, as against the
capacity of defendants' mines of 86,628,880 tons, while the
present yearly capacity of all mines in southern West Virginia, Virginia, eastern Kentucky and Tennessee is 245,233,560 tons, based upon an eight-hour working day.

APPALACHIAN COALS. INC., v. U. S.
344

369

Opinion of the Court.

"This excess capacity over actual production," the court
said, "could be brought into production at moderate expense and with reasonable promptness." As to potential,
undeveloped capacity in Appalachian territory, the court
found that in the eight districts in this region not held by
any operating, or by any captive, company, there are approximately 760,000 acres containing more than 4,300,000,000 tons of recoverable coal. In addition, in the same
territory " owned by captive companies and not being operated, or owned by operating companies who are using
only a very small proportion of their holdings," there is an
additional 860,000 acres, containing more than 4,600,000,000 tons of coal. Within the twenty-four counties in
which defendants' mines are located, and immediately adjacent to them, on railroads already operating, "with the
exception of short, feeder extensions," there are over
1,620,000 acres of coal bearing land, containing approximately 9,000,000,000 net tons of recoverable coal "comparable both in quality and mining conditions with the
coal now being mined in that region." "The opening up
of this acreage would involve only the extension of short
branch lines from the railroads and the building of mining
plants. The price of these lands at the present time
would be less than half of the value of two or three years
ago, and considerably less on a royalty basis. Coal produced from these districts is available for any market in
which Appalachian coal is sold. Conditions in the coal
industry are such that new companies are free to enter the
business of producing and marketing coal in competition
with existing companies." In connection with this proof
of developed and potential capacity, the "highly organized and concentrated buying power" that can be exerted
must also have appropriate consideration.!
'J. M. Dewberry, general coal and coke agent of the Louisville &
Nashville Railroad, a large 'consumer of Appalachian- coal, testified:
" It isa well known fact today that the buying power of these large
consumers of coal is more intelligent, more forceful, more far-reaching

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Consumers testified that defendants' plan will be a
benefit to the coal industry and will not restrain competition. Testimony to that effect was given by representatives of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad, the Norfolk
& Western Railroad, and the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad, "the largest railroad users of coal operating in the
Appalachian region," and by representatives of large
utility companies and manufacturing concerns. 8 There
than ever before in the history of the industry. And it just sounds
to me like a joke for somebody to talk about Appalachian Coals or
somebody else dictating the price that they are going to pay. They
dictate their own price. The purchaser makes it. And he makes it
because of the tremendous force and influence of his buying power.
Why, it is nothing these days for one interest or one concern to buy
several million tons of coal."
, The District Court in its findings, after referring to the railroads
above mentioned, continues: "A representative of a large public utility company" (with extensive power lines in the middle west and on
the Atlantic seaboard) "consuming annually approximately 2,485,000
tons of coal has stated that the organization and operation of Appalachian Coals, Inc. will not affect competition in the markets in which
his company buys coal, and that it will have a beneficial effect on the
coal industry. A representative of a power company operating
throughout the State of Georgia .. .using from 30,000 to 125,000
tons of coal annually, has stated that the organization and operation
of Appalachian Coals, Inc. will not restrain competition in the markets in which his company buys coal. A representative of the Carbide and Carbon Corporation which uses annually about 250,000 tons
of bituminous coal, 100,000 tons of coke made from bituminous coal,
and 40,000 to 50,000 tons of petroleum coke, and operating plants
that consume coal at South Charleston, West Virginia; Niagara Falls,
New York; Cleveland, Ohio; Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan; Indianapolis,
Indiana, and Fremont and Fostoria, Ohio, has stated that the organization of Appalachian Coals, Inc., will have a beneficial effect in the
coal industry and will not restrain competition in the markets in
which his company buys coal. The largest purchaser of coal in the
States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and eastern Tennessee who purchases approximately 600,000 tons of coal annually
under normal conditions for use by textile mills, located in those
States, has stated that the organization and operation of Appalachian

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

371

Opinion of the Court.

was similar testimony by wholesale and retail dealers in
coal. There are 130 producers of coal other than defendants in Appalachian territory who sell coal commercially.
There are also "a large number of mines that have been
shut down and could be opened up by the owners on short
notice." Competing producers testified that the operation. of the selling agency, as proposed by defendants,
would not restrain competition and would not hurt their
business. Producers in western Pennsylvania, Alabama,
Ohio and Illinois testified to like effect. Referring to this
testimony, the court below added, "The small coal producer can, to some extent, and for the purpose of producing and marketing coal, produce coal more cheaply
than many of the larger companies, and is not prevented
by higher cost of operation from being a competitor in
the market."
The Government criticises the "opinion testimony"
introduced by defendants as relating to a competitive
situation not within the experience of the witnesses, and
also animadverts upon their connections and interests,
but the Government did not offer testimony of opposing
opinions as to the effect upon prices of the operation of
the selling agency. Consumers who testified for the Government explained their dependence upon coal from
Appalachian territory.
The District Court commented upon the testimony of
officers of the selling agency to the effect "that the
organization would not be able to fix prices in an arbitrary way but, by the elimination of certain abusqs, and
by better advertising and sale organization, the producers
would get more in the aggregate for their coal." "Other
witnesses for the defendants" said the court, "indicated
that there would be some tendency to raise the price but
Coals, Inc. will not control or dominate the price in the markets in
which he purchases coal, and that he will be able to purchase coal

in an open and competitive market."

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

that the degree of increase would be affected by other
competitors in the coal industry and by producers of coal
substitutes."
Fifth. We think that the evidence requires the following conclusions:
(1). With respect to defendant's purposes, we find no
warrant for determining that they were other than those
they declared. Good intentions will not save a plan
otherwise objectionable; but knowledge of actual intent
is an aid in the interpretation of facts and prediction of
consequences. Chicago Board of Trade v. United States,
supra. The evidence leaves no doubt of the existence of
the evils at which defendants' plan was aimed. The
industry was in distress. It suffered from over-expansion
and from a serious relative decline through the growing
use of substitute fuels. It was afflicted by injurious practices within itself,--practices which demanded correction.
If evil conditions could not be entirely cured, they at least
might be alleviated. The unfortunate state of the industry would not justify any attempt unduly to restrain
competition or to monopolize, but the existing situation
prompted defendants to make, and the statute did not
preclude them from making, an honest effort to remove
abuses, to make -competition fairer, and thus to promote
the essential interests of commerce. The interests of producers and consumers are interlinked. When industry is
grievously hurt, when producing concerns fail, when
unemployment mounts and communities dependent upon
profitable production are prostrated, the wells of commerce go dry. So far as actual purposes are concerned,
the conclusion of the court below was amply supported
that defendants were engaged in a fair and open endeavor
to aid the industry in a measurable recovery from its
'plight. The inquiry then, must be whether dtspito this
objective the inherent nature of their plan was such as to
create an undue restraint upon interstate commerce.

APPALACHIAN COALS INC., v. U. S.
344

373

Opinion of the Court.

(2). The question thus presented chiefly concerns the
effect upon prices. The evidence as to the conditions of
the production and distribution of bituminous coal, the
available facilities for its transportation, the extent of
developed mining capacity, and the vast potential undeveloped capacity, makes it impossible to conclude that
defendants through the operation of their plan will be
able to fix the price of coal in the consuming markets.
The ultimate finding of the District Court is that the
defendants "will not have monopoly control of any market, nor the power to fix monopoly prices"; and in its
opinion the court stated that "the selling agency will not
be able, we think, to fix the market price of coal." Defendants' coal will continue to be subject to active competition. In addition to the coal actually produced and
seeking markets in competition with defendants' coal,
enormous additional quantities will be within reach and
can readily be turned into the channels of trade if an
advance of price invites that course. While conditions
are more favorable to the position of defendants' group in
some markets than in others, we think that the proof
clearly shows that, wherever their selling agency operates,
it will find itself confronted by effective competition
backed by virtually inexhaustible sources of supply, and
will also be compelled to cope with the organized buying
power of large consumers. The plan cannot be said either
to contemplate or to involve the fixing of market prices.
The contention is, and the court below found, that
while defendants could not fix market prices, the concerted action would "affect" them, that is, that it would
have a tendency to st abilize market prices and to raise
them to a higher level than would otherwise obtain. But
the facts found do not establish, and the evidence fails
to show, that any effect will be produced which in the
circumstances of this industry will be detrimental to fair
competition. A co6perative enterprise, otherwise free

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

from objection, which carries with it no monopolistic
menace, is not to be condemned as an undue restraint
merely because it may effect a change in market conditions, where the change would be in mitigation of recognized evils and would not impair, but rather foster, fair
competitive opportunities. Voluntary action to rescue
and preserve these opportunities, and thus t6 aid in relieving a depressed industry and in reviving commerce
by placing competition upon a sounder basis, may be
more efficacious than an attempt to provide remedies
through legal processes. The fact that the correction of
abuses may tend to stabilize a business, or to produce
fairer price levels, does not mean that the abuses should
go uncorrected or that cooperative endeavor to correct
them necessarily constitutes an unreasonable restraint
of trade. The intelligent conduct of commetce through
the acquisition of full information of all relevant facts
may properly be sought by the co6peration of those engaged in trade, although stabilization of trade and more
reasonable prices may be the result. Maple Flooring
Association v. United States, 8upra; Cement Manufacturers Asociation v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, 604.
Putting an end to injurious practices, and the consequent
improvement of the competitive position of a group of
producers, is not a less worthy aim and may be entirely
consonant with the public interest, where the group must
still meet effective competition in a fair market and
neither seeks nor is able to effect a domination of prices.
Decisions cited in support of a contrary view were addressed to very different circumstances from those presented here. They dealt with combinations which on the
particular facts were found to impose unreasonable
restraints through the suppression of competition, and in
actual operation had that effect. American Column &
Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377; United States

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC., v. U. S.
344

375

Opinion of the Court.

v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371. Compare
Maple 'Flooring Association v. United States, supra, at
pp. 579-582. In Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United
States, 175 U. S. 211, the combination was effected by
those who were in a position to deprive, and who sought
to deprive, the public in a large territory of the advantages of fair competition, and was for the actual purpose,
and had the result, of enhancing prices,--which in fact had
been unreasonably increased. Id., pp. 237, 238. In
United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, defendants, who controlled 82 per cent of the business of
manufacturing and distributing vitreous pottery in the
United States, had combined to fix prices. It was found
that they had the power to do this and had exerted it.
The defense that the prices were reasonable was overruled,
as the court held that the power to fix prices involved
"power to control the market and to fix arbitrary and
unreasonable prices," and that in such a case the difference
between legal and illegal conduct could not "depend upon
so uncertain a test" as whether the prices actually fixed
were reasonable,--a determination which could "be
satisfactorily made only after a complete survey of our
economic organization and a choice between rival philosophies." See United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255
U. S.81. In the instant case there is, as we have seen, no
intent or power to fix prices, abundant competitive opportunities will exist in all markets where defendants' coal is
sold, and nothing has been shown to warrant the conclusion that defendants' plan will have an injurious effect
upon competition in these markets.
(3). The question remains whether, despite the foregoing conclusions, the fact that the defendants' plan eliminates competition between themselves is alone sufficient
to condemn it. Emphasis is placed upon defendants'
control of about 73 per cent of the commercial produc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

tion in Appalachian territory. But only a small percentage of that production is sold in that territory. The
finding of the court below is that "these coals are mined
in a region where there is very little consumption." Defendants must go elsewhere to dispose of their products,
and the extent of their production is to be considered in
the light of the market conditions already described.
Even in Appalachian territory it appears that the developed and potential capacity of other producers will afford
effective competition.'
Defendants insist that on the
evidence adduced as to their competitive position in the
consuming markets, and in the absence of proof of actual
operations showing an injurious effect upon competition,
either through possession or abuse of power, no valid objection could have been interposed under the Sherman
Act if the defendants had eliminated competition between
themselves by a complete integration of their mining
properties in a single ownership. United States v. U. S.
Steel Corp., 251 U. S. 417; United States v. International
Harvester Co., 274 U. S. 693. We agree that there is no
ground for holding defendants' plan illegal merely because
they have not integrated their properties and have chosen
to maintain their independent plants, seeking not to limit
but rather to facilitate production. We know of no public
policy, and none is suggested by the terms of the Sherman Act, that, in order to comply with the law, those
engaged in industry should be driven to unify their properties and businesses, in order to correct abuses which may
be corrected by less drastic measures. Public policy might
indeed be deemed to point in a different direction. If the
mere size of a single, embracing entity is not enough to
bring a combination in corporate form within the statutory inhibition, the mere number and extent of the production of those engaged in a co6perative erdeavor to
9

Supra, pp. 10, 11.

APPALACHIAN COALS, "INC., v. U. S.
344

377

Opinion of the Court.

remedy evils which may exist in an industry, and to improve competitive conditions, should not be regarded as
producing illegality. The argument that integration may
be considered a normal expansion of business, while a
combination of independent producers in a common selling agency should be treated as abnormal-that one is a
legitimate enterprise and the other is not-makes but an
artificial distinction. The Anti-Trust Act aims at substance. Nothing in theory or experience indicates that
the selection of a common selling agency to represent a
number of producers should be deemed to be more abnormal than the formation of a huge corporation bringing
various independent units into one ownership. Either
may be prompted by business exigencies, and the statute
gives to neither a special privilege. The question in either
case is whether there is an unreasonable restraint of trade
or an attempt to monopolize. If there is, the combination cannot escape because it has chosen corporate form;
and, if there is not, it is not to be condemned because of
the absence of corporate integration. As we stated at the
outset, the question under the Act is not simply whether
the parties have restrained competition between themselves but as to the nature and effect of that restraint.
Chicago Board of Trade v. United States, supra; United
States v. Terminal Association, 224 U. S. 383; Window
Glass Manufacturers v. United States, supra; Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163, 169, 179.
The fact that the suit is brought under the Sherman
Act does not change the principles which govern the
granting of equitable relief. There must be "a definite
factual showing of illegality." Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 283 U. S. p. 179. We think that the Government
has failed to show adequate grounds for an injunction in
this case. We recognize, however, that the case has been
tried in advance of the operation of defendants' plan,
and that it has been necessary to test that plan with

. 78 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

reference to purposes and anticipated consequences without the advantage of the demonstrations of experience.
If in actual operation it should prove to be an undue restraint upon interstate commerce, if it should appear that
the plan is used to the impairment of fair competitive
opportunities, the decision upon the present record should
not preclude the Government from seeking the remedy
Which would be suited to such a state of facts. We think
also that, in the event of future controversy arising from
the actual operation of the plan, the results of the labor
of both parties in this litigation in presenting the volu.minousevidence as to the industry, market conditions and
transportation facilities and rates, should continue to
be available, without the necessity of reproducing that
evidence.
The decree will be reversed and the cause will be r.manded to the District Court with instructions to enter a
decree dismissing the bill of complaint without prejudice
and with the provision that the court shall retain jurisdiction of The cause and may set aside the decree and take
further proceedings if future developments justify that
course in the appropriate enforcement of the Anti-Trust
Reversed and remanded.
Act.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS thinks that the court below
reached the proper conclusion and that its decree should
be affirmed.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.. BROOKS ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 496. Argued February 9, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.
1. In computing the tax on the transfer of the estate of a.nonresident
decedent under the Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 301-304, that part of
the gross estate was to be returned and valued "which at the time

of his death is situated in the United States." Held:

