OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioner.

288 U.S.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. A. T. JERGINS TRUST.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 541.

Argued February 15, 16, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. A city made an oil and gas lease to a private party, covering part
of a tract owned by the city and used by it for water supply and
other purposes. Under the lease the oil and gas recovered were
sold by the parties jointly and the proceeds were divided in stated
proportions between them. Held 'that a federal tax or the receipts
of the lessee was not invalid, since the subject taxed was so remote from any governmental function that the effect of the exaction on the city's activities was inconsiderable, and its collection
was consistent with, and did not trench upon, the immunity of the
State as a sovereign. P. 514.
2. In determining net income under the Revenue Act of 1921, capitalized expenses for drilling and developing oil wells may not be
deducted from gross income as depreciation allowance. United
States v. Dakota-Montana Oil Co., ante, p. 459; Petroleum Exploration v. Burnet, ante, p. 467. P. 516.
61 F. (2d) 92, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment reversing a decision
of the Board of Tax Appeals, 22 B. T. A. 551.

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Whitney North
Seymour, Sewall Key, and FrancisH. Horan"were on the
brief, for petitioner.
A tax offends against the implied limitation only if it
is imposed directly upon the governmental instrumentality of the State, or if, though not so imposed, its effect
is to place a substantial burden upon the exercise of a
governmental function. Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216;
Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 525; Indian
Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 576.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this Volume.

BURNET v. A. T. JERGINS TRUST.
508

509

Argument for Petitioner.

Much of the land acquired was not presently required
in connection with the business of water-supply that the
city took over from public service corporations. It was
therefore available, as property owned by the city but
not presently needed, for such nongovernmental uses as
might be most profitable; and leases to various tenants
were made for various strictly private uses. The situation is the reverse of that presented in Trinidad v. Sagrada Orden, 263 U. S. 578, 582, in that the city instead
of adhering to and advancing the purpose for which the
lands were originally acquired, stepped aside from that
purpose and devoted them to general business pursuits.
The mere fact that the lessor was a municipality does
not render the tenant immune from taxation, for it is a
matter of common knowledge that municipalities exercise functions which are purely proprietary as well as
those which are strictly governmental. See Vilas v.
Manila, 220 U. S. 345, 356. The lessee must show that
imposition of the tax upon its income will result in substantial. interference with the performance by the city of
some strictly governmental function. The record does
not disclose the use to which the royalties paid the city
were put; but assuming that they were devoted to governmental purposes, such use would not be sufficient
basis for exemption of such receipts. South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U. S. 437; Olson v. North Dakota, 33
F. (2d) 848, appeal dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, 280
U. S. 528.
The situation at bar is not different from a case where
a city leases vacant land to one who erects an office
building thereon, or to a farmer for agricultural purposes.
Certainly the income of the lessee would not be exempt
from tax. In such cases the city is a mere proprietorengaged in business for profit.
The fact that the city originally acquired the lands in
connection with other lands acquired for water purposes

5101

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioner.

288 U.S.

does not require a different conclusion. The oil lease to
the respondent had nothing to do with the supply of
water. The land was, in effect, segregated from the rest
of the tract and devoted to other and wholly different
purposes.
The tax has no economic effect upon the performance
of any governmental function of the city. The supplying of water, while undoubtedly a "public" or "municipal" purpose, is not a strictly governmental function.
Davoust v. Alameda, 149 Cal. 69, 72-73; South Pasadena
v. Pasadena Land Co., 152 Cal. 579, 593; Morrison v.
Smith Bros., 211 Cal. 36, 45; Chafor v. Long Beach, 174
Cal. 478, 483; Matin Water Co. v. Sausalito, 168 Cal. 587,
594-595; Sincerney v. Los Angeles, 53 Cal. App. 440, 447.
This view of the California courts is supported by the
weight of authority elsewhere. Cf. Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107, 172; South Carolina v. United States,
199 U. S.437, 462.
In the Coronadocase, 285 U. S.393, there was the combination of circumstances that the land leased had been
dedicated by the grant from the United States and the
organic law of Oklahoma to the furtherance of a governmental function, and that the proceeds of the leases were
required to be paid into the school fund. The lands in
the Gillespie case, 257 U. S.501, were held in trust 'for
the Indians by the United States. The Court therefore
concluded that the leases were governmental instrumentalities. In the case at bar, the city 'was free to devote
its profits from the lease to any purpose, whether proprietary or governmental. So far as appears from the
record, the functions of the city were not in any way
affected by the tax on respondent's income.
The exemption of an instrumentality of one government from taxation by the other must be given a practical application, without an undue impairment either
of the taxing power of the one or of the appropriate exer-

BURNET v. A. T. JERGIN
508

TRUST.

Argument for Respondent.

cise of its functions by the other. Susquehanna Co. v.
Tax Comm'n, 283 U. S. 291, 294; Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523, 524.
One who seeks to escape the burden of a tax must show
the facts which entitle him to relief. See Willcuts v.
Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 230, 231. See also Phillips v. Dime
Trust d Savings Bank, 284 U. S. 160; 167; Burnet v.
Houston, 283 U. S. 223, 227; Niles Bement Pond Co. v.
United States, 281 U. S. 357, 361; Reinecke v. Spalding,
280 U. S. 227, 232.
The decision of the Board of Tax Appeals as to depletion was erroneous.
Messrs. Marc F. Mitchell and A. Calder Mackay, with
whom Mr. Thomas R. Dempsey was on the brief, for
respondent.
It is well settled that under the Federal Constitution,
the Federal Government and the States may not tax
each other's property. Lee v. OsceolaImprovement Dist.,
268 U. S. 643, 645.
If the land can not be taxed, revenue derived therefrom
can not be taxed. Neither government may tax the instrumentaliti6s of the other. Pollock v. Farmers Loan &
Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 158 U. S. 601; Indian Territory
Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; Union
Pacific R. Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; United States v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 17 Wall. 322; Collector v. Day,
11 Wall. 113; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Gillespie v. Oklahoma 257 U. S. 501 ; Burnet v. CoronadoOil
& Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393.
The principle applies whether the land'is held by the
sovereign in a proprietary or in a so-called governmental
capacity. Woodruff v. North Bloomfield Gravel Co., 18
Fed. 754-772; Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S. 219; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151; Wisconsin Central R. Co.
v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496; Lee v. Osceola Improvement Dist., 268 U. S. 643.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The land was part of a tract acquired and used by the
city in its governmental capacity in order to: (1) improve its streets; (2) eliminate unsanitary conditions; (3)
protect the health of the community; (4) provide adequate water and pressure for fighting fires, and (5) to
assure a clean and wholesome supply of water for its
inhabitants.
The same corrsiderations that invalidate a tax on the
city's lease invalidate a tax upon the profits derived by
the lessee. That the city's profit from the lease will be
diminished to some extent by the requirement that the
lessee pay a tax upon its income derived from the city's
property is as clear in the case at bar as in those cases
wherein the right of the federal or state government to
tax proceeds from publicly owned lands has been denied.
No higher police duty can rest upon municipal authority than that of furnishing an ample supply of pure and
wholesolne water for public and domestic uses. Columbus v. Mercantile Trust & Deposit Co., 218 U. S. 645.
Protection against fire and the maintenance of public
streets and roads are governmental functions. Denning
v. State, 123 Cal. 316; Davoust v. Alameda, 149 Cal. 69.
See also Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Illinois ex rel. Grimwood, 200 U. S. 561. Cf. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 330, 409, 410, 411.
Messrs. Charles D. Hamel and John Enrietto, by leave
of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the Public Ownership
League of America, as amicus, curiae, to maintain that a
city's function in supplying water to its inhabitants is
governmental.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Prior to 1911 the city of-Long Beach, California, procured water from companies owning and operating

BURNET v. A. T. JERGINS TRUST.
508

513

Opinion of the Court.

artesian wells on lands lying outside the city. The service
proving inadequate and unsatisfactory, the municipality
in 1911 acquired these lands, comprising about 600 acres,
and the appurtenant systems, and has since used the tract
for water supply and other purposes. In 1922 oil was
discovered in the vicinity, and the respondent was organized under the law of California with the intention of
obtaining an oil and gas lease on the lands in question.
The city leased to the respondent 140 acres, the agreement
stipulating that the lessee should receive sixty per cent. of
the proceeds of oil and gas recovered and the city forty
per cent. As permitted by the lease the oil and gas produced have been sold under a contract made by the city
and the respondent as joint vendors. The trust has derived substantial income from the lease.
Upon audit of'the taxpayer's returns for the years 1922,
1923 and 1924, the Commissioner, by formal written notification, proposed a deficiency in income taxes for those
years. The respondent appealed to the United States
Board of Tax Appeals raising two issues, (1) Whether its
income derived from the lease was immune from taxation,
and, if not, (2) Whether capitalized expenses for drilling
and developing its oil wells were to be returned through
depletion allowance, as ruled by the Commissioner, or by
way of depreciation. The Board held the income taxable
and the intangible development costs recoverable through
depreciation charges. The Circuit Court of Appeals upon
cross-petitions for review decided that the income from
the lease was immune" from federal income tax, and therefore found it unnecessary to pass upon the matter of depreciation allowance presented. by the Commissioner's
petition. 61 F. (2d) 92. Both questions are raised by
the petition for certiorari.
The respondent, in support of its claim of immunity,
relies upon the principle that a tax upon instrumentalities
of the states is forbidden by the Federal Constitution;

OCTOBER TERM, 1932
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

that by clear implication the means employed by the general government to carry into operation the powers
granted to it are exempt from taxation by the states, as
are those employed by the states exempt from taxation
by the general government. The principle is settled by a
wealth of authority and has been applied in varying circumstances; has been recently fully discussed and the
authorities collected and commented upon in decisions of
this court (Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514;
Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216; Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Board of Equalization,and Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Board of County Commissioners, ante, p. 325); and no purpose would be served by
arepetition of what was there said.
The Revenue Acts do not discriminate between the respondent and others similarly situated, in the imposition
of the income tax.. If the respondent is exempt from the
exaction the conclusion must follow because the tax directly burdens the functions of the state acting through
the city of Long Beach. Considerations which have led
to the condemnation of taxes in other circumstances are
here absent. The levy is not upon the property of the
municipality, nor upon the income it derives from its
property, is not upon the city's share of the oil recovered,
the lease, or the gross income therefrom. The law measures the assessment by the net income of the respondent,
whose operations are carried on in a private and not in
a public capacity for the personal gain of its cestuis que
trustent. The government, asserts that the incidence of
the tax is so remote from the activities of the municipality
as to have no substantial adverse effect upon them. The
respondent insists that as lessee of the lands in question
it is a governmental agency and any tax laid upon its
income directly burdens governmental functions.
In Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra, this court said
[p. 522]:

BURNET v. A. T. JERGINS TRUST.
508

Opinion of the Court.

"Just what instrumentalities of either a state or the
federal government are exempt from taxation by the
other cannot be stated in terms of universal application."
And further [p. 523]:
"As cases arise, lying between the two extremes, it becomes necessary to draw the line which separates those
activities having some relation to government, which are
nevertheless subject to taxation, from those which are
immune. Experience has shown that there is no formula
by which that line may be plotted with precision in advance. But recourse may be had to the reason upon
which the rule rests, and which must be the guiding
principle to control its operation. Its origin was due to
the essential requirement of our constitutional system
that the federal government must exercise its authority
within the territorial limits of the states; and it rests on
the conviction that each government, in order that it
may administer its affairs within its own sphere, must be
left free from undue interference by the other. ..."
It w.--- there pointed 'out that while in one aspect the
extent of the exemption must finally depend upon the
effect of the tax upon the functions of the government
alleged to be affected, still the nature of the governmental agencies and the mode of their constitution may not
be disregarded in passing upon the question of tax exemption. An agency may be so intimately connected
with the exercise of a power or the performance of a duty
by the government that any taxation of it would be a
direct interference with the functions of government
itself. In Baltimore Shipbuilding Cp. v. Baltimore, 195
U. S. 375, itwas said [p. 382]:
"... it seems to us extravagant to say that an independent private corporation for gain, created by a State,
is exempt from state taxation, either in its corporate person, or its property, because it is employed by the United
States, even if the work for which it is employed is important and takes much of its time."

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinioh of the Court.

288 U.S.

The statement holds true as well when the positions
of the sovereigns are reversed.
The application of the doctrine of implied immunity
must be practical (Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5,
31, 36) and should have regard to the circumstances disclosed. We think that in the present instance the subject
of the tax is so remote from any governmental function
as to render the effect of the exaction inconsiderable as
respects the activities of the city. Compare Alward v.
Johnson, 282 U. S. 509, 514. Its collection is not inconsistent with and does not trench upon the immunity of
the state as a sovereign. The income of the respondent
from the lease is not immune from federal income tax.
The respondent relies upon Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257
U. S. 501, and Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S.
393, as authorities binding upon us and requiring a decision in its favor. In both of those cases the sovereign
was acting as the trustee of an express trust with regard
to the lands leased. In both the burden upon the public
use was more definite and direct than in the present case.
As said in the Coronado case, the doctrine of Gillespie v.
Oklahoma is to be applied strictly and only in circumstances closely analogous to those which it disclosed.
The decisions relied on cannot be held to be authority
upon the facts presented by this record.
The petitioner also asserts that the Board of Tax
Appeals was in error in holding that the cost of drilling
should be amortized by way of depreciation charges, and
not through the statutory allowance for depletion. The
identical issue is involved and settled in favor of petitioner
by United States v. Dakota-MontanaOil Co., ante, p. 459,
and Petroleum Exploration v. Burnet, ante, p. 467, decided this day.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

