UNION BANK & TRUST CO. v. PHELPS.
178

181

Syllabus.

pleasure and exclusively for its own profit. Notwithstanding the special characteristics of electrical energy,
the company is engaged in producing and selling an article
of trade. Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165,
180, 181. The product is property. The fact that a privilege has been received from the Federal Government does
not exempt that property or the local business in producing and selling it from the burdens of taxation otherwise
valid. Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 33;
Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Mackey, 256 U. S. 531, 537;
Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 226; Fox Film Corp. v.
Doyal, supra;Susquehanna Power Co. v. Tax Commission
(No. 1), 283 U. S. 291, 294. Thus, the "permissive grant"
by the Federal Government to a telegraph company to use
the military and post roads of the United States for its
poles and wires "did not prevent the State from taxing
the real or personal property belonging to the company
within its borders or from imposing a license tax upon the
right to do a local business within the State." Williams v.
Talladega, 226 U. S. 404, 416; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, 549; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Gottlieb, 190 U. S. 412, 423. The complainant is in no better position with respect to the tax
here in question.
Decrees affirmed.
UNION BANK & TRUST CO. v. PHELPS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No.. 346. Argued January 17, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. Discrimination in state ad valorem taxation -between corporations
receiving deposits and doing a commercial banking business, and
their corporate and individual competitors in the business of
lending money, by taxing the shares of the former and taxing the
latter on a more favorable basis, or exempting them,--held consistent with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. - P. 185.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioner.

288 U.S.

2. Within the intendment of the Fourteenth Amendment, shares of
national banks and shares of state banks are not essentially the
same when considered from the standpoint of taxation; nor do
they become so merely because the State has attempted to subject
them to like treatment. P. 186.
3. Where a State's scheme of taxation includes taxes on shares of
state and national banks and less onerous burdens on other competing moneyed capital, so that the tax as to national banks is
invalid and not enforced, the resulting discrimination against the
state banks does not violate the equal protection clause of the

Fourteenth Amendment. P. 187.
4. The implied exemption from state taxation of federal instrumentalities, such as national banks, is not a source of congressional
power to control state action in other matters. P. 188.
225 Ala. 238; 142 So. 552, affirmed.

CERTIORm, 287 U. S. 588, to review the reversal of a

judgment allowing recovery of money from a state tax
collector.
Messrs. William B. White and John S. Coleman for
petitioner.
I. Alabama has classified as a single class for the purposes of ad valorem taxation the shares of state and national banks. Gen. Acts, Ala., 1923, p. 152, § 6.
II. By reason of the existence of untaxed money capital
and corporate shares in actual and substantial competition with the national banks, the tax levied upon the
shares of the national banks became invalid. Op. Atty.
Gen. of Ala., Jan. 29, 1932; Ward v. First Nat. Bank,
142 So. 93; MercantileNat. Bank v. New York, 121 U. S.
138; Merchants Nat. Bank v. Richmond, 256 U. S. 635;
First Nat. Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 341; First Nat.
Bank v. Hartford, 273 U. S. 548; Minnesota v. First Nat.
Bank, 273 U. S. 561; Georgetown Nat. BanI..v. McFarland, 273 U. S. 568; Iowa-Des Moines Nat. Bank v.
Bennett, 284 U. S. 239.
III. The Fourteenth Amendment requires equal treatment with regard to ad valorem taxation of all property
and taxpayers classified as a single class for taxation pur-

UNION BANK-& TRUST CO. v. PHELPS.
181

183

Counsel for Respondent.

poses. Central State Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239;
Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota County, 260 U. S. 44;
Greene v. Louisville & I. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499; Raymond
v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Cummings
v. Merchants Nat. Bank, 101 U. S. 153; Cumberland Coal
Co. v. Board of Revision, 284 U. S. 23; Sunday Lake Iron
Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350; Munn v. Des Moines Nat.
Bank, 18 F. (2d) 269; Ashland County Bank v. Butternut, 241 N. W. 638.
IV. This Court is not bound by the construction placed
by a state court upon state statutes or the operation and
effect thereof as applied and enforced by the State where
rights secured by the Federal Constitution are involved.
V. Shares of national and state banks are the same
species of property for ad valorem taxation, and no discrimination can be made in favor of one and against the
other. See cases under III, supra, and also the following: State Bank v. Board of Revenue, 91 Ala. 217; Commercial State Bank v. Wilson, 53 S. D. 82; Central Nat.
Bank v. Sutherland, 113 Neb. 126; State Bank v. Endres,
109 Neb._753; State v. Mady, 83 Mont. 418; Security Savings Bank v. Board of Review, 189 Iowa 463.
VI. In view of the untaxed competitive national banks
and other moneyed capital and corporations, the ad valorem tax denies to petitioner and its shareholders the,
equal protection of the laws contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment. Cases under III, supra, and also the following: Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, -253 U. S. 412; Louisville'Gas & Elec. Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32; Airway
'Elec. App. Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71; Schlesinger v. Wistonsin, 270 U. S. 230; Quaker City Cab. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400.
Messrs. Thomas E. Knight, Jr., Attorney General of
Alabama, and Frontis H. Moore, AssistantAttorney General, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

288 U.S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Union Bank & Trust Company, the petitioner, organized under the laws of Alabama and located in Montgomery County, receives deposits and carries on a general
,commercial and savings bank business. It sued respondent in a state court to recover $2521.69, alleged to have
been illegally exacted as taxes assessed for the year ending
September 30, 1931. The assessment followed § 6, Revenue Act of Alabama, 1923 (General Acts, 1923, 152),
which directs-" Every share of any incorporated bank
or banking association incorporated under the laws of this
State, or any other state, or of the United States, shall
be assessed for taxation in the county, and in the city or
town where such bank is located at sixty per cent of its
fair and reasonable market value."
During 1930, 1931 and 1932 there were building and
loan associations, industrial loan companies and corporations, and industrial banks in Montgomery County, which
loaned money in substantial competition with petitioner
to the extent of hundreds of thousands of dollars, *the
shares and the capital of which were exempted from ad
valorem taxes. Also, there were mortgage companies
and corporations and individuals, persons, firms and associationsengaged in like business and employing moneyed
capital to the extent of many thousands of dollars in substantial competition with petitioner, which were either
untaxed or definitely exempted.
The federal court had ruled that shares of National
Banks in Alabama could not be subjected to taxation
under § 6, Act of 1923, since the tax was not laid in conformity with § 5219, U. S. Rev. Stats., as amended by the
Acts of March 4, 1923, c. 267, 42 Stat. 1499, and March
25, 1926, c. 88, 44 Stat. 223, which only permits taxation
of shares of national banking associations at a rate no

UNION BANK & TRUST CO. v. PHELPS.
181

185

Opinion of the Court.

greater than the one required of other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens coming into competition
with the business of such associations. The state officers
had accepted these decisions as correct declarations of
the law.
Petitioner based its claim to recover upon the theory
that the tax assessed against its shares had been exacted
in violation of the equal protection clause of the XIV
Amendment; also in violation of §§ 211 and 217, Constitution of Alabama, which provide that all taxes shall be
assessed in exact propoftion to value and the property of
private corporations, associations, and individuals shall be
taxed at the same rate.
The trial court gave judgment for petitioner. The Supreme Court reversed this action and denied any recovery,
holding that the legislature had not exceeded its powers
in making classifications and exemptions; and, specifically, that there was no violation of the Federal Constitution.
Only the federal question is before us. Was the petitioner denied equal protection of the laws?
Because of existence within the State of untaxed moneyed capital pnd shares of corporations in actual competition with National Banks, the shares of the latter during
the years in question were not subject to ad valorem taxation under § 6, Revenue Act of 1923, or otherwise. And
the State Supreme Court so held.
We cannot say that the State Legislature exceeded its
power to make reasonable classification when it directed
that moneyed capital or the property and shares of building and loan associations, industrial loan corporations, industrial banks, mortgage companies, etc., should be exempt from ad valorem taxation, or taxed on a different
basis from the one prescribed for banks accepting deposits
and doing a general commercial business, notwithstanding.
actual competition between them.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Mere competition between them is not enough to show
two concerns must be burdened alike. The State Legislature reasonably might have determined that there was
fair ground for distinction; and upon the record we may
not hold that its action was arbitrary, capricious or wholly
unreasonable.
There was sharp disagreement in the court below, but
none of the judges suggested disapproval of the view
just stated. The minority did not discuss the federal
question, but found violation of the uniformity clause
of the State Constitution.
The doctrine applicable here was recently expounded
in Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S. 146, 159, and need
not be restated.
Counsel for petitioner stoutly maintain: Shares of
State and National banks belong to the same species of
property. Not only are they essentially similar, but for
many years the Revenue Statutes of Alabama have put
them in the same category. Under the scheme of taxation presently existing in the State, National bank
shares escape assessment while shares of State banks are
subject thereto. Consequently, the latter are deprived
of the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the
XIV Amendment.
A sufficient answer is that within the intendment of
the XIV Amendment shares of National and State banks
are not essentially the same when considered in connection with taxation. Nor do they become so merely because the State has attempted to subject them to like
treatment.
The several States lack power to tax National bank
shares except as expressly permitted by Congress.
Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664,
668; Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S.
103, 106; First National Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 341,
347. This is enough to negative the idea that shares of

UNION BANK & TRUST CO. v. PHELPS.
181

187

Opinion of the Court.

National and State banks are essentially the same for
purposes of taxation. And the Alabama Supreme Court
has held that under her Constitution, although the legislature may have included them in the same class of taxable objects, there is permissible distinction between
them.
To accept the doctrine that as the States can only tax
a federal instrumentality when permitted by Congress,
therefore they can not tax competitors of such instrumentalities within their general jurisdiction in some other
fashion without violating the XIV Amendment would.
be both illogical and destructive of their proper
independence. .
Such instrumentalities are exempted from .state taxation without the express consent of Congress, by the
Federal Constitution. They are of a class wholly distinct
from the property of ordinary corporations or individuals,
and this fact cannot be disregarded by the State. If the
State sees fit to tax unrestricted property within her jurisdiction and to omit National Bank shares, the classification cannot be said to be arbitrary and wholly unreasonable-the basis of it is plain enough. It may be vastly
more important for the State to omit National Bank shares
and tax ordinary moneyed capital according to a plan not
permissible in respect of National Bank shares rather
than conform to the standard prescribed by Congress.
There is nothing to indicate that Congress ever supposed
that mere establishment of a National Bank within a
State could upset the scheme for taxation, theretofore entirely proper, by producing conflict with the XIV Amendment. This view would subject the taxing power of the
State to the will of Congress far beyond what is necessary
for the protection of federal agencies. The constitutional.
inhibition against taxing these agencies does not abridgte
the taxing power of the several States in respect of other
property. The implied exemption is a shield for federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

agencies--not the source of congressional power to control
State action in respect of other matters.
Iowa-Des Moines National Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S.
239, much relied upon by petitioner, is not controllingthe circumstances and issues there involved were wholly
different from those here presented. The Iowa Supreme
Court found, or assumed, and this was accepted here, that
through the wrongful action of state taxing officials the
complaining banks had been subjected to intentional, arbitrary and systematic discrimination through assessments
greatly in excess of those imposed upon competing
moneyed capital; and the unequal exactions complained of
were in violation of the Iowa laws. The points for decision in this Court concerned the effect of unauthorized
action by state officers (Could such action be attributed
to the State?) and the proper remedy. Unlawful inequality of treatment as between the banks and competing capital was not controverted. There was no occasion
to consider whether failure by'a State to tax National
banks while subjecting her own banks to taxation would
occasion discrimination against the latter forbidden by
the XIV Amendment.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

DICKSON

ET AL.

V. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 63.

Argued November 16, 17, 1932.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. Contracts between broker and customer for pretended purchases
and sales of grain for future delivery, which do not contemplate
that any grain shall be actually bought, sold, or delivered on
behalf of the customer, violate the Missouri Bucket Shop Law,
when made and executed in 'that State. Pp. 192, 194.
2. To an action by the broker for commissions and advances, it is
a bar that the contracts are thus invalid P. 196.

