OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

adjudged him guilty of contributory negligence and
moulded its verdict accordingly. But it was open to the
jury, as above shown, to find that the motorman of the
train was also guilty of negligence which contributed to
the collision. Rocco's infraction of the rule was a concurrent cause, but may not in any proper sense be held the
primary cause of the accident. His negligence did not
preclude a finding by the jury that his death was in part
due to the negligence of the respondent's servants. The
Act imposes liability upon the carrier for injury or death
resulting "in whole or in part" from the negligence of
any of its officers, agents or employees (U. S. C. Tit. 45,
§ 51).
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
,further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Rever8ed.
and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER are
of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. GUGGENHEIM.
CERTIORARI TO T1E

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 283. Argued January 11, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 319, 320, taxing transfers by
gift, a transfer of title by deed of trust reserving power of revocation in the grantor was not taxale while that power existed but
became so when it was surrendered. P. 283.
2. The provision was not aimed at every transfer of the legal title
without consideration, but at transfers of title that have the quality
of a gift; and a gift is not consummate until put beyond recall.

P. 288.
3. Uncertainties in statutes should be so resolved as to avoid unnecessary hardships. P. 285.

BURNET v. GUGGENHEIM.
280

Opinion of the Court.

4. In applying the rule that doubt in a taxing act shall be resolved
in favor of the taxpayer, the court must consider the effect of a
proposed liberal construction not only upon the taxpayer in the
case before it, but also upon others, differently circumstanced,
upon whom it would operate illiberally, and must endeavor to
strike a balance of advantage. P. 286.
5. The statutory concept of a transfer by gift is illuminated by
the other provisions taxing transfers by death, as to which the
essence of a transfer had come to be identified more nearly with
a change of economic benefits than with technicalities of title.
P. 286.
58 F. (2d) 188, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 587, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 24 B. T. A. 1181,
affirming the assessment of a gift tax.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell and Messrs. Sewall Key, Hayner N. Larson, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Elihu Root, Jr., with whom Messrs. George E.
Cleary, Elihu Root, and J. Harry Covington were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. "JUSTICE

CARDozo delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question to be decided is whether deeds of trust
made in 1917, with a reservation to the grantor of a
power of revocation, became taxable as gifts under the
Revenue Act of 1924 when in 1925 there was a change of
the deeds by the cancellation of the power.
On June 28, 1917, the respondent, a resident of New
York, executed in New Jersey two deeds of trust, one for
the benefit of his son, and one for the benefit of his
daughter. The trusts were to continue for ten years, during which period part of the income was to be paid to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

beneficiary and part accumulated. At the end of the ten
year period the principal and the accumulated income
were to go to the beneficiary, if living; if not living, then
to his or her children; and if no children survived, then
to the settlor in the case of the son's trust, and in the
case of the daughter's trust to the trustees of the son's
trust as an increment to the fund. The settlor reserved
to himself broad powers of control in respect of the trust
property and its investment and administration. In particular, there was an unrestricted power to modify, alter
or revoke the trusts except as to income, received or accrued. The power of investment and administration was
transferred by the settlor from himself to others in
May, 1921. The power to modify, alter or revoke was
eliminated from the deeds, and thereby canceled and
surrendered, in July, 1925.
In the meanwhile Congress had passed the Revenue Act
of 1924 which included among its provisions a tax upon
gifts. "For the calendar year 1924 and each calendar
year thereafter . . . a tax . . . is hereby imposed upon

the transfer by a resident by gift during such calendar
year of any property wherever situated, whether made
directly or indirectly," the tax to be assessed in accordance with a schedule of percentages upon the value of the
property.. 43 Stat. 253, 313, c. 234, §§ 319, 320; 26 U. S.
Code, §§ 1131, 1132.
At the date of the cancellation of the power of revocation, the value of the securities constituting the corpus of
the two trusts was nearly $13,000,000. Upon this value
the Commissioner assessed against the donor a tax of
$2,465,681, which the Board of Tax Appeals confirmed
with a slight modification due to a mistake in computation. The taxpayer appealed to the Court of Appeals for
the second circuit, which reversed the decisibn of the
Board and held the gift exempt. 58 F. (2d) 188. The
case is here on certiorari.

BURNET v. GUGGENHEIM,
280

Opinion of the Court.

On November 8, 1924, more than eight months before
the cancellation of the power of revocation, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, adopted and promulgated the following regulation: "The creation of a trust, where the.
grantor retains the power to revest in himself title to the
corpus of the trust, does not constitute a gift subject to
tax, but the annual income of the trust which is paid over
to the beneficiaries shall be treated as a taxable gift for the
year in which so paid. Where the power retained by the
grantor to revest in himself title to the corpus is not exercised, a taxable transfer will be treated as taking place in
the year in which such power is terminated." Regulations 67, Article I.
The substance of this regulation has now been carried
forward into the Revenue Act of 1932, which will give the
rule for later, transfers. Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209; 47
Stat. 169, 245; § 501 (c).'
We think the regulation, and the later statute continuing it, are declaratory of the law which Congress meant
to establish in 1924.
"Taxation is not so much concerned with the refinements of title as it is with the actual command over the
property taxed-the actual benefit for which the tax is
paid." Corliss v. Bowers, .281 U. S. 376, 378. Cf. Chase
National Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260; Tyler v. United States,
'Sec. 501(c): "The tax shall not apply to a transfer of property
in trust where the power to revest in the donor title to such property
is vested in the donor, either alone or in conjunction with any person
not having a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such property or the income therefrom, but the relinquishment or termination
of such power (other than by the donor's death) shall be considered
to be a transfer by the donor by gift of the property subject to such
power, and any payment of the income therefrom to a beneficiary
other than the donor shall be considered to be a transfer by the donor
of such income by gift."

284

BURNET v. GUGGENHEIM.
Opinion of the Cofirt.

288 US.

281 U. S. 497,503; Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103; Palmer
v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551. While the powers of revocation
stood uncanceled in the deeds, the gifts, from the point of
view of substance, were inchoate and imperfect. By
concession there would have been no gift in any aspect if
the donor had attempted to attain the same result by the
mere delivery of the securities into the hands of the
donees. A power of revocation accompanying delivery
would have made the gift a nullity. Basket v. Hassell,
107 U. S. 602. By the execution of deeds and the creation of trusts, the settlor did indeed succeed in divesting
himself of title and transferring it to others (Stone v.
Hackett, 12 Gray [Mass.] 227; Van Cott v. Prentice, 104
N. Y. 45; 10 N. E. 257; National Newark & Essex Banking Co. v. Rosahl, 97 N. J. Eq. 74; 128 AUt. 586; Jones v.
Clifton, 101 U. S. 225), but the substance of his dominion
was the same as if these forms had been omitted. Corliss
v. Bowers, supra. He was free at any moment, with reasoft or without, to revest title in himself, except as to any
income then collected or accrued. As to the principal of
the trusts and as to income to accrue thereafter, the gifts
were formal and unreal. They acquired substance and
reality for the first time in July, 1925, when the deeds
became absolute through the cancellation of the power.
The argument for the respondent is that Congress in
laying a tax upon transfers by gift made in 1924 or in any
year thereafter had in mind the passing of title, not the
extinguishment of dominion. In that view the transfer
had been made in 1917 when the deeds of trust were executed. The argument for the Government is that what
was done in 1917 was preliminary and tentative, and that
not till 1925 was there a transfer in the sense that must
have been present in the mind of Congress when laying
a burden upon gifts. Petitioner and respondent are at
one in the view that from the extinguishment of the power
there came about a change, of legal rights and a shifting

BURNET v. GUGGENHEIM
280

2285

Opinion of the Court.

of economic benefits which Congress was at liberty, under
the Constitution, to tax as a transfer effected at that time.
Chase National Bank v. United States, supra; SaltonstalU
v. Saltonstall,supra; Tyler v. United States, supra; Corliss
v. Bowers, supra. The question is not one of legislative
power. It is one of legislative intention.
With the controversy thus narrowed, doubt is narrowed
too. Congress did not mean that the tax should be paid
twice, or partly at one time and partly at another. If a
revocable deed of trust is a present transfer by -gift, there
is not another transfer when the power is extinguished.
If there is not a present transfer upon the delivery of the
revocable deed, then there is such a transfer upon the extinguishment of the power. There must be a choice, and
a consistent choice, between the one date and the other.
To arrive at a decision, we have therefore to put to ourselves the question, which choice is it the more likely that
Congress would have made? Let us suppose a revocable
transfer made on June 3, 1924, the day after the adoption
of the Revenue Act of that year. Let us suppose a power
of revocation still uncanceled, or extinguished years afterwards, say in 1931. Did Congress have in view the present payment of a tax upon the full value of the subject
matter of this imperfect and inchoate gift? The statute
provides that upon a transfer by gift the tax upon the
value shall be paid by the donor (43 Stat. 316, c. 234,
§ 324), and shall constitute a lien upon the property transferred. 43 Stat. c. 234, §§ 324, 315. By the act now in
force, the personal liability for payment extends to the
donee. Act of June 6, 1932, c. 209, § 510; 47 Stat. 249;
26 U. S. Code, § 1136 (j). A statute will be construed in
such a way as to avoid unnecessary hardship when its
meaning is uncertain. Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197,
214; Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S. 435. Hardship
there plainly is in exacting the immediate payment of a
tax upon the value of the principal when nothing has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

done to give assurance that any part of the principal will
ever go to the donee. The statute is not aimed at every
transfer of the legal title without consideration. Such 'a
transfer there would be if the trustees were to hold for the
use of the grantor. It is aimed at transfers of the title
that have the quality of a gift, and a gift is not consummate until put beyond recall.
The respondent invokes the rule that in the construction of a taxing act doubt is to be resolved in favor of the
taxpayer. United States v. Merriam, 263 .U. S. 179;
Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151. There are many facets to
such a maxim. One must view them all, if one would
apply it wisely. The construction that is liberal to one
taxpayer may be illiberal to others. One must strike a
balance of advantage. It happens that the taxpayer before
us made his deeds in 1917, before a transfer by gift was
subject to a tax. We shall alleviate his burden if we
say that the gift was then complete. On the other hand,
we shall be heightening the burdens of taxpayers who
made deeds of gift after the Act of 1924. In making them,
they had the assurance of a treasury regulation that the
tax would not be laid, while the power of revocation was
uncanceled, except upon the income paid from year to
year. They had good reason to suppose that the tax
upon the principal would not be due until the power was
extinguished or until the principal was paid. If we disappoint their expectations, we shall be illiberal to them.
The tax upon gifts is closely related both in structure
and in purpose to the tax upon those transfers that take
effect at death. What is paid upon the one is in certain
circumstances a credit to be applied in reduction of what
will be due upon the other, 43 Stat. 315, § 322, 26 U. S. C,,
§ 1134. The gift tax is Part II of Title III of the Revenue
Act of 1924; the Estate Tax is Part I of the same title.
The two statutes are plainly in pari materia. There has
been a steady widening of the concept of a transfer for
the purpose of taxation under the provisions of Part I.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

He asks why such a provision should have been placed in
Part I and nothing equivalent inserted in Part II, if
powers for purposes of the one tax were to be treated in
the same way as powers for the purposes of the other.
Section 302 (d) of the Act of 1924 is in part a reenactment
of a section of the Revenue Acts of 1918 and 1921, though
it has been changed in particulars. 40 Stat. 1097, c. 18,
§ 402 (c); 42 Stat. 227, c. 136, § 402 (c). Cf. Reinecke v.
Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339. It is an outcome of
that process of development which has given us a rule for
almost every imaginable contingency in the assessment
of a tax under the provisions of Part I. No doubt the
draftsman of the statute would have done well if he had
been equally explicit in the drafting of Part II. This is
not to say that reaning has been lost because extraordinary foresight would have served to make it clearer. Here
as so often there is a choice between uncertainties. We
must be content to choose the lesser. To lay the tax at
once, while the deed is subject to the power, is to lay it on
a gift that may never become consummate in any real or
beneficial sense. To lay it later on is to unite benefit
with burden. We think the voice of Congress has
ordained that this be done.
Precedents are cited as opposed to our conclusion. We
find none of them decisive.
United States v. Field, 255 U. S. 257, holds that under
the Revenue Act of 1916 (39 Stat. 777, c. 463), the subject
of a power created by another is not a part of the estate
of the decedent to whpm the power was committed. It
does not hold that a revocable conveyance inter vivos is
a perfected transfer by gift that will justify the immediate imposition of a tax upon the value. There was no
such question in the case.
rights, powers, and relinqi4ishments of powers, as severally enumerated and described therein, whether made, created, arising, existing,
exercised, or relinquished before or after the enactment of this act."

BURNET v. GUGGENHEIM.
280

287

Opinion of the Court.

Tyler v. United States, supra; Chase National Bank v.
United States, supra; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, supra; cf.
Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625. There is little likelihood that the lawmakers meant to narrow the concept,
and to revert to a construction that would exalt the form
above the substance, in fixing the scope of a transfer for
the purposes of Part II. We do not ignore differences
in precision of definition between the one part and the
other. They cannot obscure identities more fundamental
and important. The tax upon estates, as it stood in 1924,
was the outcome of a long process of evolution; it had
been refined and perfected by decisions and amendments
almost without number. The tax on gifts was something
new. Even so, the concept of a transfer, so painfully developed in respect of taxes on estates, was not flung aside
and scouted in laying this new burden upon. transfers
during life. Congress was aware that what was of the
essence of a transfer had come to be identified more nearly
with a change of economic benefits than with technicalities of title. The word had gained a new color, the result,
no doubt in part, of repeated changes of the statutes, but
a new color none the less. Cf. Towne v. Eisner, 245 U. S.
418, 425; International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272
U. S. 50; Gooch v. Oregon Short Line R. Co., 258 U. S. 22,
24; Hawks v. Hamill, ante, 52, 57.
The respondent finds comfort in the provisions of
§ 302 (d) of the Act of 1924, governing taxes on estates.2
'By section 302 (d), the gross estate of a decedent is to be taken
as including the subject of any trust which he has created during life
"where the enjoyment thereof was subject at the date of his death to
any change through the exercise of a power, either by the, decedent
alone or in conjunction with any person, to alter, amend, or' revoke,
or where the decedent relinquished any such power in contemplation
of his death, ekcept in case of a bona fide sale for a fair consideration
in money or money's worth."
By section 302 (h), the foregoing subdivision (d), as well as many
others, is declared to "apply to the transfers, trusts, estates, interests,

BURNET v. GUGGENHEIM.
280

Opinion of the Court.

Jones v. Clifton, 101 U. S. 225, holds that a power of
revocation in a deed of conveyance from a husband to his
wife does not avail without more to invalidate the transaction as one in fraud of creditors. A transfer within the
meaning of a taxing act may or may not be one within
the statute of Elizabeth.
We aye referred to cases in the state courts, from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. In re Dolan's Estate, 279 Pa.
St. 582; 124 Atl. 176; In re Hall's Estate, 99 N. J. Law 1;
125 Atl. 246. In neither did the court decide that a conveyance inter vivos was taxable as a present gift when the
conveyance was subject to revocation at the pleasure of the
grantor. No such statute was involved. In each the ruling was that upon the death of the grantor the subject of
the conveyance was not taxable as part of his estate, and
hence not taxable at all. The ruling might -have been
different if a choice had been necessary between taxing
the conveyance, or its subject, while the power was outstanding, and taxing it later on. New channels of thought
cut themselves under the drive of a dilemma.
A decision of the Court of Claims, Mans v. United
States, 69 Ct. Cls. 539; 39 F. (2d) 748, upholds the contention of the Government that within the meaning of
the act of Congress the termination by a settlor of the
power to revoke a trust is a transfer of the property and as
such subject to taxation.
The argument for the respondent, if pressed to the limit
of its logic would carry him even farther than he has
claimed the right to go. If his position is sound that a
power to revoke does not postpone for the purpose of taxation the consummation of the gift, then the income of
these trusts is exempt from the tax as fully as the principal. What passed to the beneficiaries was the same in
either case, an interest inchoate and contingent till rendered absolute and consummate through receipt or accrual
before the act of revocation. Congress did not mean that

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Petitioner.

288 U.S.

recurring instalments of the income, payable under a
revocable conveyance which had been made by a settlor
before the passage of this statute, should be exempt, when
collected, from the burden of the tax.
The judgment is
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
are of opinion that the termination of the donor's power
of revocation was not a transfer by gift of any property
within the meaning of the statute, and that the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be affirmed.

NEW YORK v. MACLAY

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 374. Argued January 18, 19, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.
Under R. S. § 3466, debts due by an insolvent corporation to the
United States have priority over claims of a State for franchise
taxes due but not liquidated, although by the state law such taxes
are a lien in the sense*that, when liquidated, they take precedence,
by relation, over other intervening claims. Pp. 289-294.
59 F. (2d) 979, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 590, to review the affirmance of an
order granting priority to the United States in the payment of income taxes and of a claim for damages, over
the claim bf the State of New York for franchise and
gross earnings taxes, in the liquidation through a receivership of the assets of an insolvent corporation.

Mr. Charles A. Schneider, with whom Messrs. John J.
Bennett, Jr., Attorney General of New York, and
Robert P. Beyer were on the brief, for petitioner.

