CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1932
UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO NORTH SHORE &
MILWAUKEE RAILROAD CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 264. Argued December 16, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
1. An independent electric railroad, built and equipped primarily for
interurban and suburban passenger service, and whose traffic is
mainly of that character, but which interchanges passengers and
freight with steam railroads, and competes with them, the freight
business being, however, subsidiary in amount and function and not
fairly comparable to the ordinary freight business of a standard
steam railroad,--held an "interurban electric railway," within the
meaning of § 20a of the Interstate Commerce Act, and therefore
excepted, by par. 1 of that section, from the necessity of obtaining
authority from the Commission before issuing bonds. P. 10.
2. In so holding, the Court assumes the question to be doubtful but
decides that the status of the carrier as an "interurban electric
railway" is settled by the uniform construction of § 20a applied to
it by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Commission having for many years resolved doubt in favor of the carrier, and the
carrier having issued large amounts of bonds in reliance upon this
administrative construction and without any objection from the
Commission. P. 13.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree dismissing a bill filed by the
United States praying that the railroad company be enjoined from issuing securities or assuming obligations
without authority from the Interstate Commerce Commission.

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

288 U.S.

Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Charles H. Weston and Elmer B. Collins were on the brief, for the United
States.
The words "interurban electric railway" have the same
meaning in § 20a as in § 1 (22).
The principle to be deduced from the Piedmont &
Northern case is that when the volume of a carrier's
interstate business is such as to constitute it an important competitor, on substantially equal terms, with interstate steam railroads, it falls within the class of carriers
"long recognized as objects of national concern and regulation " and is not a "street, suburban, or interurban
electric railway" exempted from the regulatory provisions governing extensions and abandonments of lines
and security issues. A carrier does not have to be predominantly a freight-carrying road in order to be a substantial factor in the business of interstate transportation.
In passenger traffic, appellee furnishes the same character of service as that of its steam-railroad competitors,
including sales of through tickets for railroads, steamship
lines, air and motor-bus lines, for points throughout the
country and in Canada.
It may be estimated that in 1930 it had a revenue of
over $2,300,000 from passenger traffic between Chicago
and Waukegan, Illinois and cities in Wisconsin. For
1926 this revenue would be more-approximately the
same as the entire freight revenue-for that year.of the
Piedmont and Northern.
The interrelation between appellee's intrastate and interstate traffic is shown by the fact that it has twice applied to the Commission alleging that intrastate rates
imposed by state authority caused unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce, or undue prejudice to persons or localities in interstate commerce, in violation of
paragraph (4) of § 13 of the Act. In both cases the

U. S. v. CHICAGO NORTH SHORE R. CO.

3

Argument for Appellee.

Commission found that the intrastate rates caused unjust discrimination against interstate commerce, as well
as undue prejudice, and raised the intrastate rates to the,
level of the interstate rates. 62 I. C. C. 188, 193; 136
I. C. C. 165, 168.
The findings of the District Court do not support its
statement that the Commission by its failure to act, and
by affirmative recommendations in its annual reports to
Congress, has given to this road by contemporaneous construction the status of an interurban electric railway.
The exception as to electric railroads in § 15a differs
from the exception in § 20a.
Administrative and statutory classifications have not
been uniform, and in any event would not control this
litigation. Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n, 286 U. S.299.
Mr. Robert E. Quirk, with whom Messrs. Ralph R.
Bradley and Claude D. Cass were on the brief, for appellee.
It is clear from the legal history of the phrase "interurban electric railway" that Congress used it as descriptive of a class of independently operated electric railways, as that phrase had the sanction of time and common
usage. It is also apparent from § 20a and other sections
of the law that the fact that such a railroad interchanges
freight and passenger traffic with steam railroads and
competes for such traffic does not make it any the less an
interurban electric railroad. Appellee does not forfeit its
character merely by complying with the duties imposed
upon it by other and older provisions of the law in establishing through routes and interchange arrangements
with steam railroads. United States v. Munson S. S.
Line, 283 U. S.43. There were and are only four classes
of electric railways in this country, namely, urban, suburban, interurban, and electrified parts of steam railroads.

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellee.

288 U.S.

In Spokane & Inland Empire R. Co. v. United States,
241 U. S. 344, the Court described the electric railroad
there involved which handled freight and passenger
traffic and maintained freight and passenger rates on a
national scale as an interurban electric railroad. There
is striking similarity between the traffic characteristics
of the Spokane line at the time of that decision and the
traffic characteristics of appellee as it is today. Congress
is presumed to have known of that decision and to have
known that at the time of the amendments of 1920 the
Interstate Commerce Commission had in numerous cases
required the establishment of through routes and joint
rates between interurban electric railroads and steam railroads, and that interurban electric railroads had developed
at that time to the point where many or most of them
engaged in a general way in the transportation of freight
and passengers under through routes with steam railroads.
The court below correctly described the common characteristics of interurban electric railways as railways
which use electric power in the transportation of passengers and freight, occupy city streets and highways in addition to private rights of way, stop cars or trains at street
intersections and country highways for the reception and
discharge of passengers, maintain loading platforms and
shelter sheds without agents, have short radius curves,
and operate part of their systems under municipal and
village franchises, charters and restrictions.
By common consent and by contemporaneous construction of both federal and state authorities, the appellee
has been described and treated as an interurban electric
railway. In 162 I. C. C. 188, and 136 I. C. C. 165, the
Interstate Commission described the appellee as an interurban electric railroad. In its annual reports to Congress
and by other informal acts the Commission has given the
statute the construction relied upon by appellee. Securities aggregating more than $39,000,000 have been' issued

U. S. v. CHICAGO NORTH SHORE R. CO.

5

Argument for Appellee.

in good faith by appellee, from time to time, with the
knowledge and without objection of the Interstate Commission and under the specific authority of the regulating
commissions of Wisconsin and Illinos. Such acts of these
State commissions should be given full faith and credit
under the Constitution and in comity are entitled to highest respect. Cooper v. Newell, 173 U. S. 555; Wisconsin v.
Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265.
The reason for federal control over the securities of
steam railroads did not exist as to independently operated
electric railroads. Hence the exclusion of this class from
§ 20a and from certain other of the new provisions of the
law enacted in 1920.
Appellee is clearly distinguishable from the Piedmont
& Northern which was before the Court in 286 U. S. 299.
The same phrase may have a different meaning in
different connections in the same Act, and in the Piedmont & Northern case the Court answered-some of the
contentions of the Piedmont & Northern as to the significance of the similarity of phraseology in other sections of
the Act by this observation: "But it is so used with
other purposes in view." American Security Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S. 491, 494; Alabama Midland Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 168 U. S.
144. Cf. Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512.
Paragraph 11 of § 20a provides that any security issued
or obligation assumed by a carrier subject to that section
without the authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be void, and that any such void security
acquired by any person for value in good faith and without notice that it is void, entitles such person to hold the
carrier and its directors, officers and attorneys jointly
and severally liable for the full amount of damages sustained, in a suit in any court of competent jurisdicticn.
Since 1920 the appellee has issued securities aggregating
about $39,000,000, under state authority and without the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

authority, but with the knowledge and tacit sanction,
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Other electric
lines similarly situated have issued securities aggregating
more than $239,000,000 since 1920 without the approval
of the federal Commission and under authority of the
state regulating bodies. If appellant's theory of the law
be sustained, the effect under the statute if valid will be
to make void the securities of tfle appellee and of other
electric lines, the result of which may be a plethora of
law suits for damages which staggers the imagination.
Moreover, should the Court adopt appellant's theory of
-the law and hold that the appellee is not an interurban
electric railway, such a finding will raise for the appellee
and for the whole electric railway industry a fog of uncertainty as to classification and jurisdiction which will
make it impossible for any electric railway to know in
advance of a decision by this Court what its status is
under § 20a; and such a finding will work untold injury
to appellee and to the entire railway industry.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought pursuant to § 12 (1) of the
Interstate Commerce Act, as amended,' to enjoin the
appellee from issuing any securities or assuming any obligation or liability in respect of the securities of others
without first having obtained an order from the Interstate
Commerce Commission authorizing such action, as required by § 20a of the Act.2 The petition avers appellee's
intention to issue or become guarantor of securities in
violation of the last mentioned section.
The District Court, after making detailed and elaborate
fact findings, concluded as matter of law that the rail1

U. S. Code, Tit. 49, § 12 (1).
I U. S. Code, Tit. 49, § 20a.

U. S. v. CHICAGO NORTH SHORE R. CO.
1

7

Opinion of the Court.

road was an independently operated electric interurban
railway expressly excepted from the requirements of the
section. The question is whether the facts found warrant the decision.
Section 20a forbids a carrier to issue shares, bonds or
obligations, evidence of interest or indebtedness, or to
assume any obligation or liability of any other person
or corporation, unless the Commission, upon application,
after investigation, shall by order authorize such issue or
assumption, as within the applicant's corporate purpose
and compatible with the public interest. After prescribing the procedure before the Commission, and declaring
its jurisdiction plenary and exclusive, the section enacts
that securities or obligations not issued pursuant to its
terms shall be void, and imposes civil and criminal
liability upon officers and directors participating in their
creation.
Paragraph 1 provides: "As used in this section the term
'carrier' means a common carrier by railroad (except a
street, suburban, or interurban electric railway which is
not operated as a part of a general steam railroad system
of transportation). . ....
The properties of the appellee have developed, through
various transfers and reorganizations, out of a street railway company organized more than twenty-five years ago.
The company has for some years owned and operated in
interstate commerce an electrified railroad, the main line
of which extends from Chicago, Illinois, to Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. There are 138 route miles of line, 132 miles
of second track and 42 miles of yard and other track.
About 40 miles of main and second track are in city streets,
on some of which the appellee operates in common with
street cars and vehicular traffic. In addition to the main
line between Chicago and Milwaukee there is an alternate
line for part of the distance; a branch some 36 miles in
length; and two other branches, one of which is 3 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the-Court.

288 US.

the other 8 miles long. Operation in Chicago is over the
elevated tracks of the Chicago Rapid Transit Company
from the south side northerly through the loop district
to a point on the north side (approximately 16 miles).
Thence the line runs northerly through Chicago and
Evanston to Wilmette, approximately 8 miles, over elevated dirt fill tracks owned by the Chicago, Milwaukee,
St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Company, leased by the appellee jointly with the Chicago Rapid Transit Company.
The remainder of the appellee's lines are upon its own
right of way, or in streets the use of which is granted by
local franchise. The total laid under local franchises, outside of Milwaukee, is approximately 3 miles; in the latter
city the operation for 2.67 miles is over the tracks of a
street surface railway owned by the appellee.
Twenty fast through passenger trains are operated daily
in each direction between downtown Chicago and downtown Milwaukee with a running time equalling that of
the fastest trains of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway, which operates fifteen through trains daily between
the same cities. Dining cars and parlor cars are included
in some of the appellee's fast trains. Modern, well
equipped passenger stations are maintained at a number
of points; 51 have agents selling passenger tickets; at
some 96 places shelters and platforms are maintained, at
35 platforms only; and at 42 locations at which certain
trains stop at streets or highways no facilities are provided. Through railroad and Pullman tickets are sold
to any part of the United States, Canada or Mexico.
Local passenger fares are computed on the mileage basis
used by steam railroads.
Appellee's tracks are of standard gauge and are physically connected with those of four steam railroads at some
thirteen points, and with those of three electric lines.
Eight connections are used for handling interchange carload freight. The railroad has substantial facilities for

U. S. v. CHICAGO NORTH SHORE R. CO.

9

Opinion of the Court.

serving various industries located on its lines, such as side,
industrial, team and switch tracks, and freight classifica-,
tion tracks. It owns seven electric locomotives which are
of a small type and unable to haul freight trains of the
size usually employed by steam railroads, and 114 freight
cars which have no electrical equipment and are interchangeable with steam railroads. Sixteen local freight
tariffs are published; in 206 tariffs the railroad participates
as initial carrier, and in more than 800 as a delivering or
intermediate carrier, in conjunction with steam railroads.
The total transportation revenue in 1930 was over
$6,000,000, about 76% from passenger traffic and about
22% from freight. This ratio has been substantially
maintained for some years. In 1930, 87% of carload
freight traffic was interchange and 78% of all freight
traffic was interline, but only 42% of freight -revenue was
derived from interline business.
Locomotives are not employed in the passenger service,
the cars having installed electrical equipment, and being
somewhat shorter and narrower than standard passenger
railroad coaches. Freight is hauled by electric locomotives. A merchandise package delivery freight service is
supplied by cars similar to baggage cars used on steam
railroads, having self-contained electric equipment, operated from the loop in Chicago to Milwaukee in trains of
from one to five cars. At certain points gantlet tracks
are required for handling freight cars, as the clearances on
the main line are insufficient to permit their passage.
Grades are much heavier than those customary on steam
railroads, and some of the curves are of so short a radius
as not to permit the passage of a steam locomotive. The
company maintains no facilities for receipt or delivery of
carload freight at its termini in Chicago and Milwaukee,
and cannot accomplish interchange of such freight at
either, connections for this purpose being outside those
cities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The railroad was constructed to afford a fast electric
passenger service between Chicago and Milwaukee and
suburban passenger service into and out of Chicago. The
freight business is subsidiary to this primary function, and
is not fairly comparable to that ordinarily transacted by
a standard steam railroad. Passenger traffic, whether
measured by car service or by gross earnings, heavily preponderates over interline freight business. The main terminals serve only the passenger and merchandise freight
traffic.
We thus have a typical example of an interurban electric line for passenger service, which has developed, in
addition, such freight traffic as could advantageously be
undertaken without interfering with performance of the
main purpose of the carrier. The facts differentiate the
present case from Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commn., 286 U. S. 299. There the railway was predominantly a carrier of interchange carload
freight and the proposed extension of line, which was the
subject of that litigation, had as its object the creation of
a link in a trunk-line route composed of the electric line
and a number of steam railroads, which would divert
from other steam railroad trunk-line routes some $4,000,000 of revenue annually. The purely local traffic in
freight, passengers, baggage and express was there relatively inconsequential; but here greatly, preponderates.
It was there said: "In cases where an appreciation of the
facts is requisite to proper classification it is not always
easy to draw the line. Instances may be supposed where
great difficulty might be experienced in determining
whether an electric railway line falls within or without
the exception of paragraph (22) [which is couched in the
same words as the exception in § 20a (1)]. But this is
not such a case. The facts clearly require a holding that
petitioner's railway is not within the true intent and purpose of the exclusion intended by the paragraph." If the

U. ,. v. CHICAGO NORTH SHORE R. CO.

11

Opinion of the Court.

status of the appellee were a matter of first impression, we
,should, though the decision is not free from difficulty, be
inclined to hold § 20a inapplicable. But for the reasons
about to be stated, we consider the question settled.
The definitions embodied in § 1, paragraphs (2) (a)
and (3), embrace the appellee and render it subject to
the jurisdiction conferred. upon the Commission by the
remaining sections, unless excepted by their terms. Interurban electric railways are expressly saved from the
requirements of §§ 1 (18) to (21) inclusive, 15a and 20a.
The language of the excepting clauses in the first and
third instances is identical except for the use in one case
of the singular and in the other of the plural number.
That applicable to 15a, which is the section providing for
fixing rates to yield a fair return, and for recapture, differs in substance from the two others and is: "excluding . . . (c) interurban electric railways unless operated as a part of a general steam railroad system of
transportation or engaged in the general transportptionof
freight...."
As indicated in the Piedmont case, supra, the phrase
"interurban electric railway" may not in all circumstances be susceptible of exact definition. The Commission has realized the difficulty. In its 35th annual report,
for 1921, this was said (p. 21):
"Under the law as it now stands, we have no jurisdiction over the issuance of securities of a ' street, suburban,
or interurban electric railway which is not operated as
a part of a general steam railroad system of transportation.' Certain electric railways independently operated
are engaged in the general transportation of freight in
interstate commerce in addition to the transportation of
passengers. The use of electricity as motive power for
railways is rapidly increasing. Some electric lines correspond substantially to steam roads in all important particulars except that of motive power. Under Section 15a

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

of the act we are given authority to include in groups of
carriers for rate-making purposes such interurban electric
lines as are engaged in the general transportation of
freight. It seems desirable that Section 20a of the interstate commerce act be so amended as to indicate definitely
the classes of electric railway companies subject to that
section."
The recommendation was repeated in the annual reports for 1923, 1924 and 1925.' In the report for 1928
(p. 83) the following appears:
"That the present exemption provisions of paragraph
(22) of section 1, paragraph (1) of section 15a, and
paragraph (1) of section 20a, applicable to electric railways, be amended by substituting provisions exempting
all electric railways except such as interchange standard
freight equipment with steam railways and participate
in through interstate freight rates with such carriers; provision to be made for exemption of particular electric
railways falling within the excepted class, if upon application they are able to show to the satisfaction of the
commission, after notice and opportunity to be heard,
that they are not affected with an important national
interest so far as the provisions in question are concerned."
See also the 1929 report, p. 89.
The position heretofore taken by the Commission with
respect to the appellee is of great significance. In 1923
a brief was filed with the Commission supporting the
view that § 15 (a) had no application to the company
because it was an interurban electric railway not operated
as part of a general steam railroad system of transportation and not engaged in the general transportation of
freight. The Director of the Bureau of Finance replied
that unless later advised to the contrary the carrier would
'Annual Report of Interstate Commerce Commission for 1923, p.
70; Report for 1924, p. 78; Report for 1925, p. 72.

U. S. v. CHICAGO NORTH SHORE R. CO.
1

13

Opinion of the Court.

not be required to file returns under the section. No such
advice has ever been communicated to the appellee.
The District Court finds that since July, 1916, when the
Chicago, North Shore and Milwaukee Railroad, the immediate predecessor of appellee, acquired the properties,
the appellee and its predecessors have issued securities
aggregating $71,327,200 par value. Of this total $61,662,600 have been issued since March 1, 1920, the date of
the incorporation of § 20a into the Interstate Commerce
Act. All of these securities were issued upon the authority and with the approval of the regulating commissions
of Wisconsin and Illinois, and of those issued since March
1, 1920, $38,935,608 were outstanding in the hands of the
public on April 30, 1931. The required annual reports
filed by the appellee with the Commission have shown all
securities issued since March 1, .1920, and in compliance
with the rules have stated that these issues were each
approved by the state commissions.
With this knowledge of the situation the Commission
never, until it requested the Attorney General to institute
the present suit, by word or act intimated that the procedure followed by the railroad was illegal or the state
regulatory bodies without jurisdiction. It would be difficult indeed to conceive a clearer case of uniform administrative construction of § 20a as applied to this company.
Conceding that the proper classification of the railway is
not free from difficulty, all doubt is removed by the application of the rule that settled administrative construction
is entitled to great weight and should not be overturned
except for cogent reasons. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co.
v. Interstate Commerce Commn., 200 U. S. 361, 401;
Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627; Brewster v. Gage, 280
U. S. 327, 336; Fawcus Machine Co. v. United States, 282
U. S. 375, 378; Interstate Commerce Commn. v. New
York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 287 U. S. 178.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

The primary responsibility rested upon the Commission
to determine whether under the circumstances the railroad was required to procure leave under § 20a for the
issuance of securities. Evidently entertaining serious
doubts on this question it has for more than a decade resolved them in favor of the carrier, and the compafly and
its officers have acted in reliance on the administrative
tribunal's construction of the statute. At this late day
the courts ought not to uphold an application of the law
contradictory of this settled administrative interpretation.
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL.

V.

OREGON-WASHINGTON RAILROAD & NAVIGA-

TION CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 23. Argued November 8, 9, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

1. In a suit to set aside an order of. the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring a railroad extension, that Commission and commissions representing interested States, having intervened to defend
the order, are entitled as "aggrieved parties " to appeal to this
Court from a decree annulling it, even though the United States, as
represented by the Attorney General, will not join in the appeal.
Urgent Deficiencies Act, Oct. 22, 1913; Commerce Court Act,
§§ 2, 5. P. 22.
2. Upon such an appeal a decree may be obtained enforcing the rights
of the United States. P. 25.
3. An official may be designated to stand in judgment on behalf of the
United States so that a decree against him binds the Government;
Congress had power, in naming the United States as the defendant
in such suits, to give the Commission, and others having an interest,
authority to litigate the validity of such orders, and, regardless of
joinder by the Attorney General, to obtain by appeal a review effective as to the United States. P. 27.
4. That part of par. 21 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act which
authorizes the Commission to require a carrier " to extend its line

