LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
Syllabus.

LOUIS K. LIGGETT CO.
COMPTROLLER,

ET AL.

v. LEE,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 301.

Argued January 12, 13, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. A state tax (Florida Laws 1931, c. 15624) on the privilege of opening and maintaining stores, fixed at so much per store without
regard to value or volume of business, and increasing progressively
with the number of stores maintained by the owners taxed, is not in
violation of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because of the resulting discrimination against them and in
favor of owners of single and department stores or the owners of
distinct stores in voluntary cooperation. State Board of Tax
Comm'rs v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527. P. 532.
2. A state statutory provision laying a heavier privilege tax per store
on the owner whose stores are in different counties than on the
owner whose stores are all in the same county, is arbitrary and void.
P. 533.
3. The county line furnishes no rational basis for such a classification.

Id.
4. There is nothing in the Florida statute here in question indicating
that the discrimination based on counties was directed against
so-called "national chains" of stores in contrast with "local
chains," or against corporate owners, distinguished from individuals,
or large owners distinguished from small. P. 534.
5. Assuming the State had power to suppress by taxation a form of
organization deemed inimical to the public interest, no such motive
can be attributed to the present statute in the absence of legislative
declaration or record proof. P. 535.
6. Corporations are as much entitled to the equal protection of the
laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment as are natural
persons. P. 536.
7. Unequal treatment and arbitrary discrimination as between corporations and natural persons, or between different cbrporations, inconsistent with the declared object of the legislation, can not be
justified by the assumption that a different classification for a wholly
different purpose might be valid. P. 536.
8. The provision authorizing counties and municipalities to levy license
taxes on stores, to be graduated only on the number of stores situated within their respective limits, is constitutional. P. 537.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

288 U.S.

9. A higher state tax on the goods held in storage by chain stores for
retail sale in their own shops than on the goods stored by wholesalers, to be sold to retailers, is consistent with the equal protection
clause. P. 537.
10. Taxing chain stores generally by graduated license taxes but excepting filling stations engaged exclusively in the sale of gasoline or
other petroleum products, that'business being otherwise taxed by
license and by a tax per gallon of products sold-held consistent
with the equal protection clause. P. 538.
11. The Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a State from imposing differing taxes upon different trades and professions or varying the rates of excise upon various products. P. 538.
12. State taxes for the privilege of operating stores within the State
and on the value of the goods warehoused in the State for sale in
such stores, held consistent with the commerce clause. P. 538.
13. A person is not exempted by the equal protection clause from
paying a state tax because the tax is not collected by the state officials from others who are equally liable. Cumberland Coal Co. v.
Board of Revision, 284 U. S. 23; Iowa-Des Moines Nat. Bank v.
Bennett, 284 U. S. 239, distinguished. P. 539.
14. The remedy in such cases for taxpayers in Florida is by writ of
mandamus commanding the tax officers to collect the omitted
taxes. P. 540.
15. When, in a case from a state court, this Court finds that a part
of a state statute is unconstitutional, it has jurisdiction to decide the
question of state law whether the remainder is preserved by a
saving clause, but may leave that determination to the courts of
the State. P. 541.
104 Fla. 609; 141 So. 153, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree affirming the dismissal of the
bill in a suit to enjoin state taxing officers from enforcing
an Act laying a discriminatory tax on chain stores.
Mr. Thomas B. Adams for appellants.

As applied to the factual situation presented, the Supreme Court of Florida erred:

(1) In sustaining the validity of subsections (1), (3),
(5), (7), (9), and (11), of §, 5 of the Act, creating arbitrary and unreasonable state license discriminations be-

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Argument for Appellants.

tween appellants, severally doing business in different
counties, and other merchants, single store or chain store,
confining their businesses to single counties.
(2) In sustaining the discrimination created by §§ 8,
5, and 2 of the Act, imposing a license tax of $3.00 per
$1,000.00 of value on goods carried in the warehouses of
some of the appellants, while wholesale merchants, though
affiliated as parts of " voluntary chains," remain subject
to the old law, requiring the payment of only $1.50 per
$1,000.00 of value on their stocks.
(3) In sustaining § 11 of the Act imposing cumulative,
discriminatory county license taxes, and authorizing discriminatory municipal license taxes.
(4) In sustaining the State Comptroller's arbitrary and
discriminatory administration of the Act, whereby he undertook to exempt furniture dealers, filling stations that
sell tires and tubes, autorhiobile dealers, cigar stores,
restaurants, and other classes of store operators, regardless of whether single store operators or chain store
operators.
(5) In sustaining the Act in its entirety.
(6) In sustaining the Act as against the objections that
it operates to burden interstate commerce and to deprive
appellants of the privileges and immunities enjoyed by
citizens of the State of Florida-contrary to the cornmerce clause and the equal privileges and immunities
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(7) In sustaining subsections (1), (2), (4), (6), (8),
and (10) of § 5 of the Act creating arbitrary and unreasonable license discriminations in favor of single store
retail merchants, and against chain or multiple store
retail merchants, all doing business in one county.
By basing its judgment upon " judicial notice" in disregard of the sworn facts set up in the amended bill and
petitions of intervention, admitted by motion to dismiss,
the court below deprived appellants of their day in court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

288 U.S.

Mr. Roy M. Sterne filed a separate brief on behalf of
Louis K. Liggett Co., appellant.
An Act which imposes a greater privilege tax per store
on several stores located in two or more counties than on
the same number of stores located in one county,-there
being no basis for the discrimination or classification, and
no distinction between the stores other than that in one
case all the stores are in the same county and in the other
case one or more of the stores may be located in a different
county from tJ'e remaining stores,-is arbitrary and
unreasonable.
Where a bill of complaint sets up facts affirmatively
showing that no basis exists for discrimination or for
classifying complainants' several stores for occupational
license taxes differently from unit stores, and particularly
denies the existence of any facts or grounds warranting
discrimination or different classification as between multiple stores and unit stores, the complainants have a right
to show by their evidence that discriminations in a state
occupational license statute are arbitrary and unreasonable; and the granting of a motion to dismiss, which motion admits complainants' averments, is error.
The action of the Florida courts, in sustaining a motion to dismiss complainants' bill charging arbitrary discrimination in taxation, and denying the complainants
the right to be heard on the facts pleaded in their bill
and admitted by the motion, denies to complainants their
day in court, and deprives them of their property without due process of law.
The Florida courts did not have the right to substitute
assumed judicial notice for the sworn facts pleaded in
complainants' bill and admitted by the motion to dismiss, but should have allowed the complainants the opportunity to be heard on their evidence, instead of dismissing the bill on motion.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Argument for Appellants.

In the Indiana Chain Store Tax Case, 283 U. S. 527,
as we understand it, this Court was careful to'hold that
the mere possession of a number of stores was not sufficient foundation for a discrimination between unit store
merchants and multiple store merchants; and that the
discrimination must rest upon other factors and elements
sufficient to set apart and distinguish, the multiple or chain
store merchant from the unit store merchant. Indeed
the simplest illustration is sufficient to show that mere
number of stores can not possibly be used as a distinguishing characteristic.
The term " chain store operator" is a loose one, and
for occupational purposes means very little. A merchant
is in the furniture business, drug business, clothing business, etc., and his experience in a drug chain would not
be of any value to the furniture business. About the only
patent distinction between a merchant who operates one
store and the one in the same line of business who operates several stores (aside from the fact that the first has
one and the second more than one store) is that all except
the first store must be handled through agents; and this
would be true even of the one-store merchant if the business is owned by a corporation.
To support the discrimination as we understand the
Indiana decision, it is not sufficient that a mere number
of stores be owned, but the separately classified taxpayer
must in actuality have differences and distinctions, if he
is to be discriminated against and the discrimination upheld. It would not matter how many stores a merchant
owned if he did not have the asserted advantages or differences. If multiple store owners do not have such
advantages, or unit store owners do have them, it would
be, as we understand, arbitrary classification to say that a
merchant may be taxed at a higher rate because he owns
two or more stores, without regard to the amount of his

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

288 U.S.

business, size of his stocks, profits earned, or some essential distinction. Present conditions in the field of merchandising are, it may be noted, in many respects different
from those existing at the time the Indiana case was tried.
In the bill filed in this case, it is alleged that regardless
of the conditions existing in Indiana at the time of the
trial of that case, the differences on which theclassification was upheld do not exist in Florida, and did not exist
at the time of the filing of the amended bill.
As to quantity buying, it is alleged that in Florida
the amount of merchandise which can be bought by a
merchant is not dependent upon the number of stores
he operates, but upon the size of the business conducted,
and that many merchanfs owning one store can and do
buy their merchandise in the same or larger quantities
than chain stores or merchants owning more than one
store. It is obvious that a merchant owning two, three
or four small stores does not have any advantage with
respect to quantity purchasing over many merchants who
own one store doing a business equal to or greater than
the chain, or sufficient to carry the quantity discount.
Of course, mere quantity purchasing is in itself no advantage unless the merchant is thereby enabled to buy
at a lower price.
If, as alleged, hundreds and thousands, even, of single
store merchants are purchasing their merchandise on
terms as favorable as chain stores, they are at no disadvantage in this respect.
"Mass distribution " comparable to the mass method
ir,
production is referred to, but unfortunately this very
desirable end has not been attained, as is shown by the
bill. Articles may be made in mass but they can not
-be so distributed.
With reference to "buying for cash and obtaining the
advantage of a cash discount," it is shown that this is not
a characteristic of chain stores alone, or generally.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Argument for Appellants.

As to "skill in buying so as not to overbuy and at the
same time keep the store stocked with merchandise suitable in style, size, quality and quantity for the neighborhood customers who patronize it," it is alleged in the bill
that in Florida there are many unit merchants who are
shrewd and skillful buyers, and multiple-store merchants
who are not; and that skillfulness in buying is a personal
attribute, regardless of whether the merchants own one
or more stores. It is further alleged that the single store
merchant has at least the same, or even a better, opportunity to .keep his store stocked with merchandise suitable -for a particular neighborhood than the chain store
manager.
As to warehousing of goods and distributing from a
single warehouse to various stores, it is alleged that in
Florida this is not an advantage, but is in the nature of
a convenience and expense.
As to "abundant supply of capital whereby advantage
may be taken of opportunity for establishment of new
units,"-such an advantage is not a characteristic of chain
stores. It is averred that many single-store merchants
have abundant capital for supplying their needs or enlarging their business, and many multiple-store owners
do not have sufficient capital even to keep their businesses
going, much less to open additional stores.
As to "pricing" at lower prices, it is averred that many
multiple store merchants do not have any pricing or
sales policy different from that of individual stores.
As to "a greater turnover and constant analysis of the
turnover to ascertain relative profits on varying items,"
it is alleged with respect to this that turnover is a matter
of volume of business done, and is related to the class
of merchandise sold, not to the question of whether the
ownership is of one or more stores.
As to "standard forms of display for the promotion
of sales,"-nearly all stores are trying to get away from

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

288 U.S.

standard forms, and to use such display as the store owner
or manager thinks will attract customers in his locality.
Many individual store owners use the same display
methods as multiple owners, and standard forms are available to them if they desire to use them.
As to "superior management and method,"-this is
a characteristic of the individual merchant or concern,
not of the ownership of one or several stores.
As to "concentration of management in the special line
of goods handled by the chains." This s~ems to assume
a situation (namely, that chain stores are necessarily
specialty shops) which is denied in the amended bill of
complaint. Chain stores are not specialty shops, but
handle various and varied lines of goods; there are department store chains handling thousands and thousands of
items; general merchandise bhains, selling diversified
lines; men's clothing chains, selling clothes, haberdashery,
shoes and other articles. Certainly the individual merchant can and does concentrate on his particular line to
the same extent as the multiple owner.
As to "special accounting methods." This is another
matter of individual judgment and involves factors not
connected with whether one or more stores are owned.
As to "standardization of store management, sales
policies and goods sold." Every store must be operated
to suit the needs of its neighborhobd.
As to "differences or advantages" shown by "numbers
of chains established or their growth." Following the
war, large capital became available for business expansion. Since 1929 the reverse has set in. Chain stores
have fallen away with great rapidity, and large numbers
have failed, gone out of business or reorganized with less
units. Lack of capital, lack of many of the -so-called
advantages listed in the Indiana case, fall in real estate
values, fall in commodity prices, and many other factors

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Argument for Appellants.

have been responsible for the fading away of these multiple unit outfits.
We respectfully submit that if this Court's opinion in
the Indiana case was not based on the right of the legislature to tax on an ascending scale because of mere number of stores owned, but was based on differences and
advantages alleged to exist, and if these alleged differences
do not now actually exist in Florida (as was admitted
by the motion to dismiss), the Florida courts should have
allowed appellants to go to proof on the facts set up in
the bill of complaint.
This Court will test the constitutionality of the statute by the factual situation brought to its attention
in a particular case. Weaver v. Palmer Bros., 270 U. S.
402; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Home Water Co., 226
U. S. 220; Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S.
282; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270; Quong Wing
v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59.
Mr. W. H. Dannat Pell filed a separate brief on behalf
of J. C. Penney Co., appellant.
Inasmuch as for the purposes of this appeal it is admitted that in Florida there are no such differences between single store owners and multiple store owners as
were found by this Court to exist in Indiana, the sole
question before this Court is whether number of stores
operated constitutes a basis for a valid classification.
Such classification in the absence of other factors being
obviously arbitrary, the appellants should be permitted
to prove on a trial the truth of the allegations of the
amended bill of complaint.
Unless this C6urt will make it clear that the alleged
facts derived from the testimony of the professor were
material in the decision of the Indiana case, there never
can be a thoroughgoing presentation of the actual facts
in this political legislative fight. While such legislation

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

288 U.S.

is intended ostensibly to protect the small independent
merchants, we submit that it actually destroys their right
to unite with other small town and neighborhood merchants in order to live in competition with the large individual stores in the cities.
There has been a wholly inadequate presentation of the
facts affecting a chaotic distributive system, a system that
has fallen far behind the system of production.
Apparently, from the briefs submitted in the Indiana
case, the attorneys representing the taxpayer rested their
case largely on the proposition of law that a classification
based on the number of stores owned must be arbitrary
and invalid. If the decision of the Supreme Court of
Florida is upheld, the appellants will have no opportunity
through competent testimony to prove the erroneous assumptions of an inexperienced witness on retailing, which
must have affected the result in the Indiana case.
In the Indiana case the attorneys for the chains assumed that no facts were necessary to defeat a bad law.
In this case, the Attorney General of Florida assumes
that no facts are material in sustaining what he assumes
to be a good law.
It is said in the majority opinion of this Court in the
Indiana case that chains are different because they have
the advantages of warehousing. A very natural assumption is that warehousing is a sign of power and advantage which chains must enjoy because of their supposed
volume of business. Warehouses are really the costly
tools of the middleman, made more generally necessary
years ago for the assemblage of merchandise from many
small factories. Many chains do not use them. It is
obvious that before the concentration of production in
big factories, merchandise had to be shipped to warehouses from small factories so as to be stored and sorted
and assembled as to size, color, quality and quantity
before, distribution to the stores.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Argument for Appellants.

Obviously, since the great majority of all chains have
ten stores or less per chain, they do not have sufficient
volume to maintain their own warehouses.
The tendency of the modern factory and modem store
is to eliminate the warehouse entirely by the use of quick
motor trucks, express, parcel post and fast freights which
provide for weekly and even daily shipments direct from
factory or farm to the store.
What is a chain? Merely a single Main Street store
duplicated in neighboring towns or trading areas. Here
and there in almost every town, an outstanding individual
merchant feels the urge to expand. The only way open
to him is to start another store in an adjoining small
town. To that store he can take no so-called "chain"
characteristics. If he is to be successful, he will merely
repeat in the neighboring town the same character of
merchandising operation which he carried on in his first
store. Reason rejects any other explanation of growth
and success beyond the performance just stated. This
simple explanation remains true whether the growth has
been to six stores or to six hundred stores.
There is no chain store entity that is a creature apart
from a local store. Any so-called " chain" is merely the
sum total of a number of little stores. Some are successful. Some are not. The " chain" feature consists of th.
aggregate capital and surplus and net profits of a number
of individual stores, less the individual losses of those
stores. Each store, of course, has its own ledger accounts,
as if it were a single store.
It is true that chain groups of merchants having intelligent management have shown remarkable stability and
ability to lower costs of merchandise to the consumer, in
the same way that many individual merchants with
similar intelligent management show stability and lower
costs to the public. It is equally true that when there is
a deviation from principles of sound merchandising, the

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

result is disastrous, whether it be a chain or an individual
merchant. It is common knowledge that during the past
years many chains of this character have failed or discontinued doing business.
Many erroneous impressions regarding chain retailing
will be corrected by the reports of " Census of Distribution," now being published by the United States Department of Commerce for the first time.
It being admitted for the purpose of this appeal that
there are no factual differences between a single store
merchant and a multiple store merchant, we submit that
a classification based upon the number of roofs under
which a merchant does business is arbitrary and invalid.
People ex rel. Farrington v. Mensching, 187 N. Y. 8, 19.
The effect of validating a classification based upon one
method of retail distribution as against all other methods
is to hamper and possibly to destroy a method made
necessary by present day conditions in order to stabilize
industry and help cure overproduction.
Mr. H. E. Carter,Assistant Attorney General of Florida,
with whom Mr. Cary D. Landis, Attorney General, was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTicE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Chapter 15624 of the laws of Florida, 1931, declares it
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association.,
or copartnership, foreign or domestic, to operate any store
within the State without first having obtaired a license,
designates the officer to whom application shall be made,
regulates the procedure for issuance of licenses, and provides for annual renewal. The act requires the payment
of a filing fee, and, by § 5, which is copied in the margin,*
"Section

5. Every person, firm, corporation, association or co-

partnership opening, establishing, operating or maintaining one or
more stores or mercantile establishments within this State, under the

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

529

Opinion of the Court.

fixes the amount- of the license fee. A tax greater than
that exacted for a single store is fixed for each store in
excess of one, but not exceeding fifteen, owned or operated
by the same person or corporation. The fee for each store
is stepped up in amount as the number constituting the
chain reaches certain specified limits. This graduated
scale-applies to stores all of which are within a single
county; but if the same number of stores is located in
more than one county the license fee for each is materially

increased.
The act imposes the tax only on retail stores and
excludes from the definition of a store filling stations
engaged exclusively in the sale of gasoline and other
petroleum products. It provides for a separate county
license tax equal to twenty-five per cent. of the state
license fee, and authorizes a municipal tax of the same
amount, measuring the graduated tax in the case of counties and municipalities by the number of stores situate
same general management, supervision or ownership, shall pay the
license fee hereinafter prescribed for the privilege of opening, establishing, operating or maintaining such stores or mercantile establishments. The license fee herein prescribed shall be paid annually, and
shall be in addition to the filing fee prescribed in Sections 2 and 4 of
this Act.
"The license fees herein prescribed shall be as follows:
"(1) Upon one store, the annual license fee shall be Five Dollars
for each such store.
"(2) Upon two stores or more, but not exceeding fifteen stores,
where the same are located in any one county, the annual license fee
shall be Ten Dollars for each such additional store.
"(3) Upon two stores or more, but not to exceed fifteen stores,
where the same are located in different counties, the annual license
fee shall be Fifteen Dollars for each such additional store.
"(4) Upon each store in excess of fifteen, but not to exceed thirty,
when all are located in any one county, the annual license fee shall be
Fifteen Dollars for each such additional store.
"(5) Upon each store in excess of fifteen, but not to exceed thirty,
where the same are located in different counties, the annual license
fee shall be Twenty Dollars for each such additional store.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

in the county or municipality, notwithstanding the applicant may own other stores beyond the limits of the
governmental subdivision.
In addition to the described license taxes the act
imposes a levy of $3.00 for each $1,000 of value of stock
carried in each store, or for sale in such store, and this is
defined to include merchandise owned by the taxpayer
and held in storage to be sold in or through such store.
Three chain store owners filed in the Circuit Court of
Leon County, Florida, a class bill, in which twelve others
intervened and became co-plaintiffs, praying that the tax
officials be enjoined from enforcing the act. The complainants are corporations of Florida and other states.
They challenge the statute as violative of various provisions of the constitution of Florida, of the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
"(6) Upon each store in excess of thirty, but not to exceed fifty,
where all are located in any one county, the annual license fee shall
be Twenty Dollars for each such additional store.
"(7) Upon each store in excess of thirty, but not to exceed fifty,
where the same are located in different counties, the annual license
fee shall be Thirty Dollars for each such additional store.
"(8) Upon each store in excess of fifty, but not to exceed seventyfive stores, where all are located in any one county, the annual license
fee shall be Thirty Dollars for each such additional store.
"(9) Upon each store in excess of fifty, but not to exceed seventyfive, where the same are located in different counties, the annual
license fee shall be Forty Dollars for each such additional store.
"(10) Upon each store in excess of seventy-five, where all are
located in any one county, the annual license fee shall be Forty Dollars for each such additional store.
"(11) Upon each store in excess of seventy-five, where the same
are located in different counties, the annual license fee shall be Fifty
Dollars for each such additional store.
"In addition to the above amounts, Three Dollars for each and
every One Thousand Dollars of value of stock carried in each store or
for sale in such store."

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Opinion of the Court.

The bill sets forth in great detail facts claimed to assimilate the operation of chain stores to that of stores individually owned and operated in the state of Florida. Socalled voluntary chains of retail stores are described at
length and their methods of operation compared with
those of chain stores, the purpose being to demonstrate
that there is no essential difference between the two
methods of conducting business. On the basis of the facts
recited the bill charges that to tax a store operated in the
one manner and exempt an establishment conducted in
the other is arbitrary and unreasonable. The difference
in the amount of tax laid upon the operator of a given
number of stores in a single county and another conducting the same number in two or more counties is challenged
as an unconstitutional discrimination. The imposition of
a tax of $3.00 per $1,000 on retail merchants not only as
respects the stock actually contained in their stores, but
also on goods in warehouse intended for sale in such stores,
is attacked as discriminatory, for the reason that under
another statute wholesale merchants are taxed only $1.50
per $1,000 of merchandise carried in their stores or warehouses. The exemption of filling stations is alleged to
discriminate against the appellants in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The bill further avers that certain of the plaintiffs receive their goods from warehouses
maintained outside the state of Florida, or order shipments
to their stores from wholesale houses situate without the
State, whereas many operators of single stores who are
members of voluntary chains obtain their supplies from
wholesalers in Florida, or from a warehouse in the State
conducted by a voluntary chain corporation. The unequal effect of the act on these transactions is charged to
be an unconstitutional burden upon interstate commerce.
The defendants moved to dismiss. The cause was
heard upon this motion and a decree entered dismissing
the bill at complainants' costs. The Supreme Court of

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

Florida affirmed the decree. The present appeal presents
only the questions arising under the Federal Constitution.
1. In support of the allegation of arbitrary and unreasonable discrimination the bill recites facts from which
appellants claim the conclusion is inevitable that there
is no difference between the method of conducting chain
stores and those employed in department stores, so-called
voluntary chains, and singly operated units. This is but
a reiteration of the contention made and overruled in State
Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527.
It was there held that whatever may. be said of individual
similarities and differences between chain store operation
and the conduct of a single shop or a department store,
the former employ distinguishable methods of conducting
business, and the legislature may make the difference in
method and character of the business the basis of classification for taxation. In their bill the complainants aver
that the fact situation in Florida at the date of suit differed 'materially from that set forth in the Jackson case.
Each of the features of chain store operation enumerated
in tfiis coturt's opinion is singled out, and as respects each.
the averment is that as to some chain store operators,
or some operators of individual stores, the present case
differs from the Jackson case.
In their endeavor thus to distinguish the earlier case,
the appellants stress mere details, but ignore the underlying reason for sustaining the classification there at-'
tacked. The -decision in the Jackson case was based not
upon any single feature of chain store management, but
upon the ultimate fact of common knowledge, illustrated
and emphasized by the evidence, that the conduct of a
chain of stores constitutes a form and method of merchandising quite apart from that adapted to tle practice
of the ordinary individually operated small store or. department store; and that the difference between an integrated and a voluntary chain is fundamental. While

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

533

Opinion of the Court.

incidents of the operation of the one may be quite similar
to those found in the other, there is a clear distinction
between one owner operating many stores and many
owners each operating his own store with a greater or
less measure of co6peration voluntarily undertaken. The
legislature may make the distinction the occasion of classification for purposes of taxation. Neither sitnilarity
of opportunities and advantages in some aspects, nor the
fact that the one kind of store competes with the other,
is enough to condemn the discrimination in the taxes
imposed. It is needless to repeat what was said in the
Jackson case to the effect that *thedifference between the
subjects taxed need not be great, and that, if any reasonable distinction can be found the duty of the court is to
sustain the classification embodied in the law.
2. The statute lays a tax of a stated sum per store on
any given number of stores in the same ownership located
within the same county; but if one happens to be in a
county other than that in which the remainder are situate,
imposes an increased tax not only on the single one lying
in the second county, but on all. Thus if an owner has
fourteen stores be may add a fifteenth in the same county
and the only additional tax will be in the amount of $10
attributable to the privilege of conducting the new store.
But if the new store happens to be in another county the
license fee for it will be increased to $15, and that for each
of the other fourteen, which have long since been opened
and operated in the original county, will be increased from
$10 to $15.
We are unable to discover any reasonable basis for this
classification. As we have held, gradation of the tax according to the number of units operated cannot be said
to be so unreasonable as to transcend the constitutional
powers:of the legislature. The addition of a store to an
existing chain is a privilege, and an increase of the tax on
all the stores for the privilege of expanding the chain can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

not be condemned as arbitrary; but an increase in the levy
not only on a new store but on all the old stores, consequent upon the mere physical fact that the new one lies a
few feet over a county line, finds no foundation in reason
or in any fact of business experience. There is no more
reason for adopting the county line as the measure of the
tax than there would be for taking ward lines in cities,
or arbitrary lines drawn through the state regardless of
county boundaies. It is suggested that the license fee
for extending operations into a great and populous city,
or for doing business upon crowded business streets, should
be greater than for the same privilege in a village or a
sparsely settled suburb. But the adoption of a county
line can have no reference either to density of population,
congregation of the buying public, or any other factor
bearing upon the choice of a business site.
The appellees suggest that an owner reaps greater ad.
vantage by the establishment of a new store in a county
not previously occupied. This may be conceded. It is
evident, however, that the mere spatial relation between
the store and a county line, cannot, in and of itself, affect
the value of the privilege enjoyed. The appellees fail
to show how the fact that the new place of business lies
in another county increases the advantage over that to
accrue from a location within the same county. The
classification is solely of different chains, and the difference between them consists neither in number, size, surrounding population, nor in any factor having a conceivable relation to the privilege enjoyed.
It cannot justifiably be said that the section draws a
distinction between national and local chains. The operation of the statute forbids any such assumption; for
if a national chain keeps multiple units within a single
county the tax on each is at the lower rate, khile if a
so-called local chain has one store in a given county and
another just over the county line both places of business

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Opinion of the Court.

take the higher rate. This difference in treatment has
no discernible relation to the sort of chain which establishes a store across a county line. The Act is not a
rough and ready but honest effort to differentiate what
the Federal Census Bureau for its purposes denominates
local chains on the one hand and what the Bureau terms
sectional or national chains on the other. Neither the
phraseology nor the method of operation of the Act is
consistent with an attempt at any such classification.
The suggestion is made, that the statute is in reality
aimed solely at large corporate chains; and that as none
other are parties to this suit, we may ignore any discriminatory features as respects individual owners of multiple'units. But this is to construe the act by pure speculation and not by what it says, nor by any declared purpose, nor by anything contained in the record. Conceding for the purpose of the argument that in levying
the tax the legislature might have drawn a distinction
between corporate owners and individuals, and again
between small owners, whether corporate or individual,
and large owners, we are not permitted to guess at any
such undisclosed, purpose in the minds of those who
adopted the statute. Assuming power to suppress by
taxatiofi a form of organization deemed inimical to the
public interest, we can attribute no such motive to the
present statute in the absence of legislative declaration or
record proof. The Act taxes ownership and operation of
stores, not -corporate nor large corporate operation. The
exaction is based on the doing of a business, not on the
personality of the merchant.
The title declares it "An act requiring licenses for the
operation, maintenance, opening or establishment of stores
in this State" . . . Section 1 enacts "That from and
after the first day of October, A. D. 1931, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, ossociation or
co-partnership, whether foreign or domestic, to operate,

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

maintain, open or establish any store in this State without first having obtained a license . . ."
It would violate every principle of statutory construction to hold that this plain language really means that
individuals and small local corporations are not within
the intendment of the Act, but that it in fact applies only
to so-called giant corporations. To attribute such a
covert, hidden, and indirect purpose to those who passed
the statute is, in effect, to charge the lawmakers with
saying one thing and meaning another. Nothing said in
O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 282
U. S. 251, or any other decision of this court, justifies such
a pronouncement. The legislature of Florida has declared
the purpose and object of the statute to be to tax every
store owner and operator, and we should not go behind
that declaration and attribute to the lawmakers some
other ulterior design. Corporations are as much entitled
to the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment as are natural persons. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Kentucky Finance
Corp. v. ParamountExchange, 262 U. S.544; Power Mfg.
Co. v. Saunders, 274 U. S. 490; Liggett. Co. v. Baldridge,
278 U. S. 105; Iowa,Des Moines National "Bankv. Ben-.
nett, 284 U. S. 239. Unequal treatment and arbitrary
discrimination as between corporations and natural persons, or between different corporations, inconsistent with
the declared object of the legislation, cannot be justified
by the assumption that a different classification for a
wholly different purpose might be valid.
Those provisions of § 5 which increase the tax if the
owner's stores are located in more than one county are
unreasonable and arbitrary, and violate the guaranties
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
3. Section 11 of the act provides:
"A County license tax of twenty-five per cent of the
State license tax shall be levied and imposed upon each

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Opinion of the Court.

store as herein deined and each incorporated municipality of the State of Florida is authorized to levy a municipal license tax of twenty-five per cent of the State tax
imposed by this Act, provided that the tax levied by or
for the several counties and municipalities shall be graduated only on the number of stores situate in such county
or municipality, respectively, notwithstanding the applicant may own other stores beyond the limits of such
county or municipality, as the case may be ....
The attack upon this section is the same as that leveled
against § 5, which ordains the license tax for state purposes. If, as we have held, it is permissible for the state
for its own purposes to impose k tax on a graduated scale
depending upon the number of units operated by the.
chain, it is equally so for a municipality to grade its taxation by the same method, when duly authorized by state
authority.
4. Section 5, in addition to the graduated license fee,,
lays a tax of $3.00 on each $1,000 value of stock carried in
each store, or for sale in such store, and § 2 includes within
the goods, wares and merchandise from which sales are to
be made those owned by the taxpayer and held in storage
to be sold in or through such store. The appellants insist
that this requirement deprives them of the equal protec-:
tion of the law for the reason that wholesale merchants
not taxed by the act in question are assessed under § 926
of the Revised General Statutes of Florida a tax of only
$1.50 per $1,000 of value on stock carried in their stores or
warehouses. The result is said to be that a chain store
operator must pay double the amount paid by the wholesaler who supplies individual stores competing with the
chain.
Chain stores do not sell at wholesale. What they store,
if they warehouse any. goods in the state of Florida, is for
the purpose of retail sale at their shops. On th6 other
hand, goods held by a wholesaler are stored for sale to

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opiniori of the Court.

288 U.S.

retail establishments, to be resold by the latter. What
has been said with respect to difference in methods and
operation of the "two kinds of warehouses applies in this
instance. The diverse purposes of the storage and the
difference'in the nature of the business conducted are sufficient to justify a different classification of the two sorts
of warehouses for taxation.
5. Section 8, which defines a store, contains a proviso
to the effect that the term shall not include "filling stations engaged exclusively in the sale of gasoline or other
petroleum products." The appellants assert the exemption deprives them of equal protection, since it is arbitrary and unreasonable. "It appears, however, that all
dealers in gasoline, including those conducting filling stations, are reqdired by statute to pay a license tax of $5
per annum'and in addition a tax of seven cents per gallon
for every gallon of gasoline or other like products of petroleum sold (chaps. 15659 and 15788, Laws of Florida,
Acts of 1931). It has long been settled that the Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a state from imposing differing taxes upon different trades and professions
or varying the rates of excise upon various products.
Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237;
Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 121-122.
Clear and hostile discriminations against particular persons and classes, especially such as are of an unusual character, unknown to the practice of our governments, may be
obnoxious to the Constitution, but in view of the imposition of taxes on the operation of filling stations by other
acts, pursuant to the legislature's power of classification,
we cannot declare their exemption from the tax laid by
the chain store act offensive to the guaranties of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
6. It is asserted that the act bears unevenly upon those
who purchase directly from a wholesale house or manufacturer whose plant is outside the State, some of whom

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

Opinion of the Court.

also store the goods in Florida preparatory to retail sale,
and those who purchase from a wholesaler within the
State; that the former are engaged in interstate commerce,
and the tax is as to them a burden upon that commerce.
The claim merits no serious discussion. The tax is obviously laid for the privilege of operating stores in Florida,
and attempts no discrimination between merchandise imported from another state and that produced in Florida.
Compare Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296; Armour & Co.
v. Virginia, 246 U. S. 1; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262
U. S. 506. It levies no tax and lays no burden on the
purchase in interstate commerce of articles for sale in
Florida. Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60, 65; East Ohio
Gas. Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465, 471. The tax
on the value of merchandise in a retail store, or warehoused in Florida for sale in that store, even though incident on articles which have moved in interstate commerce, is laid after interstate commerce has ceased. Compare American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500;
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504; Texas Co. v. Brown, 258
U. S. 466, 475; Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472,
478.
7. The bill avers that the state officials charged with
the administration of the act have failed to demand the
tax and do not intend to collect it from the owners of
stores in certain lines of business, such as furniture deal-.
ers. -This alleged official dereliction is claimed to be an
unconstitutional discrimination in the enforcement of the
act. For this proposition appellants rely upon decisions
such as Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board of Revision, 284
U. S. 23, and Iowa-Des Moines Nat. Bank v. Bennett, 284
U. S. 239, holding a failure to assess all property taxed
ad valorem at the same proportion of its value to be a
denial of equal protection. The principle upon which
those cases rest is that where a statute lays a tax upon
property ad valorem at an even and equal rate, discrimi-

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

nation may result from the fact that the assessing officials
systematically and intentionally value some property subject to the tax at a proportion of its true value different
from that fixed with respect to other like property. They
do not support the appellants' contention that where the
taxing officials fail and neglect to exact the tax from some
persons alleged to owe it, all others who are subject to the
levy are in virtue of such omission exempt. This court
has said that in the case of unequal and discriminatory
assessment, to hold that the complaining taxpayer's only
remedy is to have the assessments on all the other property raised to a level equal with that of his own is in
effect to deny any remedy whatever. As a consequencd
redress is afforded by requiring the assessing body to revise the complainant's assessment to the level of those
upon other like property. Appellants insist that by
analogy they are entitled to be exempt, if others are improperly relieved from taxation.
Under the law of Florida every unit of the taxpaying
public has an interest in having all property subject to
taxation legally assessed, and may in behalf of himself
and others in like situation require that all property subject to taxation be placed on the tax books and bear its
proportionate part of the expense of government. The
appellants, if they deem the tax illegally omitted in certain cases, may apply for a writ of mandamus to compel
the taxing officials to do their duty. State ex rel. Dofnos
Corp. v. Lehman, 100 Fla. 1401; 131 So. 333. Failure to
collect the tax from some whose occupations fall within
the provisions of the act, cannot excuse the appellants
from paying what they owe. And certainly the remedy
afforded by state law assures them equal treatment along
with all others similarly situated.
8. We are told that the legislature of Florida would
not have passed the act if any of its provisions were for

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

any reason to be inoperative, and we are asked, therefore,
to declare the entire statute void.
Section 15 provides:
"If any section, provision or clause of this Act shall
be declared invalid or unconstitutional, or if this Act as
applied to any circumstances shall be declared invalid or
unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not be construed
to affect the portions of this Act not so held to be invalid
or the application of. this Act to other circumstances not
so held to be invalid."
The operation of this section consequent on our decision
is a matter of state law. While we have jurisdiction of
the issue, we deem it appropriate that we should leave
the determination of the question to the state court. See
King v. West Virginia, 216 U. S. 92; Schneider Granite
Co. v. Gast Realty Co., 245 U. S. 288, 290; Dorchy v.
Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 291.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, dissenting in part.

In my opinion, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Florida should be affirmed.
Florida Laws, 1931, Chapter 15,624 is legislation of the
type popularly called Anti-Chain Store Laws. The statute provides for the licensing of retail stores by the State,
the counties and the riunicipalities-a system under
which large revenues may be raised. But the raising of
revenue is obviously not the main purpose of the legislation. Its chief aim is to protect the individual, independently-owned, retail stores from the competition of chain
stores. The statute seeks to do this, by subjecting the
latter to financial handicaps which may conceivably compel their withdrawal from the State. An injunction

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1932
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

against its enforcement is sought on the ground that the
law violates rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
The Florida law is general in its terms. It prohibits
the operation, after September 30, 1931, of any retail
store without securing annually a license; and provides,
among other things, for annual fees which are in part
graduated. If the owner operates only one store the state
fee is $5; if more than one, the fee for the additional
stores rises by step increases, dependent upon both the
number operated and whether all operated are located
in a single county. The highest fee is for a store in
excess of 75. If all of the stores are located in a single
county, the fee for each store in excess of 75 is $40; if all
are not located in the same county the fee is $50. Under
this law, the owner of 100 stores not located in a single
county pays for each store operated, on the average,
$33.65; and if they were located in a single county the
owner would pay for each store, on the average, $25.20.
If the 100 stores were independently owned (although
operated co6peratively as a so-called "voluntary chain ")
the annual fee for each would be only $5. The statute
provides that the licenses shall issue to expire on September 30th of each calendar year. This suit was begun September 30th, i931. The first license year had expired
before the case was heard in this Court.
In its main features, this statute resembles the Indiana
law discussed in Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S.
527. For the reasons there stated, the Court sustains like
provisions in the Florida statute. But it declares arbitrary, and hence invalid, the novel provision imposing
heavier license fees where the multiple stores of a single
owner are located in more than one county, because it is
"unable to discover any reasonable basis for this classification." There is nothing in the record to show affirmatively that the provision may not be a reasonable one in

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

view of conditions prevailing in Florida. Since the presumption of constitutionality must prevail in the absence
of some factual foundation of record for overthrowing the
statute, its validity should, in my opinion, be sustained.
O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Insurance Co., 282 U. S.
251, 257-8; Railway Express Agency v. Virginia, 282 U. S.
440, 444; Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v.
Glidden Co., 284 U. S. 151, 158; Boston & Maine R. Co. v.
Armburg, 285 U. S. 234, 240; Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 283.
There is, however, another ground on which this provision should be, arid the whole statute could be, sus
tained-a ground not considered in the Jackson case and
not pertinent there. Jackson was an individual. The
plaintiffs here are all corporations. Though the provisions of the statutes in the two States are similar, certain
rules of law applicable to the parties to the litigation are
different.
The plaintiffs are thirteen corporations which engage in
Florida exclusively in intrastate commerce. Each
(except one) owns and operates a chain of retail stores
within the State and some operate stores in more than
one county. Several of the plaintiffs are organized under
the laws of Florida; the rest under the laws of other
States. No claim of discrimination as between the foreign
and domestic corporations is made, compare Southern Ry.
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Hanover Fire Insurance Co.
v. Harding,272 U. S. 494; nor could it be, since the statute
affects both classes of corporations alike. The suit is
brought as a class suit, for the benefit of all merchants
similarly situated who may desire to avail themselves
thereof. From certain allegations in the bill it may be
inferred that there are at least two natural persons within
the State who own and operate more than one store. But
as no such person has intervened in the cause, we have
no occasion to enquire whether the discrimination com-

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 US.

plained of would be fatal as applied to natural persons.
The plaintiffs can succeed only if the discrimination is
unconstitutional as applied to them; that is, as applied
to corporations. One who would strike down a statute
must show not only that he is affected by it, but that as
applied to him it exceeds the power of the State. This
rule, acted upon as early as Austin v. The Aldermen, 7
Wall. 694, and definitely stated in Supervisors v. Stanley,
105 U. S. 305, 314, has been consistently followed since
that time. Compare StandardStock Food Co. v. Wright,
225 U. S. 540, 550; Darnell v. Indiana,226 U. S. 390, 398;
Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, 271 U. S. 50, 5455; Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Burley Tobacco Growers'
Assn., 276 U. S. 71, 88. For the reasons to be stated, the
discrimination complained of, and held arbitrary by the
court is, in my opinion, valid as applied to corporations.
First. The Federal Constitution does not confer upon
either domestic or foreign corporations the right to engage
in intrastate commerce in Florida. The privilege of engaging in such commerce in corporate form is one which
the State may confer or may withhold as it sees fit. Compare Railway Express Agency v. Virginia, 282 U. S. 440.
See Pembivi Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181,
184-5, 186; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143
U. S. 305, 314; Hemphill v. Orloif, 277, U. S. 537, 548.
Florida might grant the privilege to one set of persons
and deny it to others; might grant it for some kinds of
business and deny it for others; might grant the privilege
to corporations with a small capital while denying it for
-those whose capital or resources are large. Or, it might
grant the privilege to private corporations whose shares
are owned mainly by those who manage them and to corporations engaged in c operative undertakings, while
denying the privilege to other concerns called private,
but whose shares are listed on a stock exchange-corpora-

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

tions financed by the public, largely through the aid of
investment, bankers. It may grant the privilege broadly,
or restrict its exercise to a single county, city or town, and
to a single place of business within any such subdivision
of the State.
Whether the corporate privilege shall be -granted or
withheld is always a matter of state policy. If granted,
the privilege is conferred in order to achieve an end
which the State deems desirable. It may be granted as a
means of raising revenue; or in order to procure for the
co.nunity a public utility, a bank or a desired industry
not otherwise obtainable; or the reason for granting it
may be to promote more generally the public welfare by
providing an instrumentality of business which will facilitate the establishment and conduct of new and large
enterprises deemed of public benefit. Similarly, if the
privilege is denied, it is denied because incidents of like
corporate enterprise are deemed inimical to the public
welfare and it is desired to protect the .community from
apprehended harm.
Here we are dealing only with intrastate commerce.
Compare Carley &.Hamilton v. Snook, 281 U. S. 66, 71.
Since a State may fix the price for the privilege of doing
intrastate commerce in corporate form, and the corporation is free to accept or reject the offer, the State may
make the price higher for the privilege of locating stores
in two counties than in one. Can it be doubted that a
State, being free to permit or to prohibit branch banking,
would be at liberty to exact a higher license fee from
banks with branches than from those with only a single
place of business; that it might exact a higher fee from
those banks which have branches in several counties than
it does from those whose branches are all within a single
county; and that it might do so without obligation to
justify, before some, court, the reasonableness of the dif-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

ference in the license fees? 1 The difference made by
Florida in exacting a higher license fee for those concerns which do business in more than one county is similar in character to that suggested.
If the Florida statute had stated in terms that the
license fee was exacted as compensation for the privilege
of conducting multiple stores in corporate form, it seems
clear that no corporation could successfully challenge its
validity. Compare Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York,
143 U. S. 305; Kansas City, F. S. & M. Ry. Co. v. Botkin,
240 U. S. 227; Nebraska ex rel. Beatrice Creamery Co. v.
Marsh, 282 U. S. 799. And since the State had the power
so to do, the mere failure to state that such was the nature
of the exaction does not render it invalid. Compare Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 683. Nor does the fact
that the plaintiffs had been admitted to the State prior
to enactment of the statute. A State which freely granted
the corporate privilege for intrastate commerce may
change its policy. It may conclude, in the light of experience, that the grant of the privilege for intrastate
commerce is harmful to the community and may decide
not to grant the privilege in the future. It may go
further in the process of exclusion. It may revoke privileges theretofore granted, compare Hammond Packing
Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322, 343; Crescent Oil Co. v.
Mississippi, 257 U. S. 129, since, in the absence of contract, there is no vested interest which requires the con'In only 9 states is state-wide branch banking permitted: Arizona,
California, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Rhode Island, South
Carolina, Vermont, and Virginia. Of these, all except South Carolina
and Maryland require the authorization of the appropriate state officer.* See Federal Reserve Bulletin, April, 1930, pp. 258-266; id., July,
1932, pp. 455-458. Congress prohibited the establishment of any
branch national bank from 1863 to 1927; see First National Bank v.
Missouri, 263 U. S. 640, 656-659. The law of that year authorized
branches only within the same city; and only if the state laws so permitted. Act of February 25, 1927, 44 Stat. 1224, 1228, c. 191, § 7.
Compare Act of February 25, 1933, 47 Stat. 907.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

tinuance of a legislative policy however expressedwhether embodied in a charter or in a system of taxation.
Citizens' Savings Bank v. Owensboro, 172 U. S. 636, 644;
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408, 414-415;
Erie R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, 701; Cheney Bros.
Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147, 157. Compare
Louisville Bridge Co. v. United States, 242 U. S. 409.
If a State believes that adequate protection against
harm apprehended or experienced, can be secured, without
revoking the corporate privilege, by imposing thereafter
upon corporations the handicap of higher, discriminatory
license fees as compensation for the privilege, I know of
nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent it from
making the experiment. The case at bar is not like those
where a restriction upon theliberty of the individual may
be attacked by showing that no evil exists, or is apprehended, or that the remedy provided cannot be regarded
as appropriate to its removal. Nor is the case like those
where a state regulation or state taxes burden interstate
commerce. Compare Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275;
Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489;
CaldwelU v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622, 626; Davis v.
FarmersCo-operative Equity Co., 262 U. S. 312; Buck v.
Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307. Cases like Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Looney v. Crane Co.,
245 U. S. 178; Terral v. Burke ConstructionCo., 257 U. S.
529, have no application to the situation here discussed.
Whether the citizens of Florida are wise in seeking to
discourage the operation of chain stores is, obviously, a
matter with which this Court has no concern. Nor need
it, in my opinion, consider whether the differences in
license fees employed to effect such discouragement are
inherently reasonable, since the plaintiffs are at liberty to
refuse to pay the compensation demanded for the corporate privilege and withdraw from the State, if they consider the price more than the privilege is Worth. B, t a
review of the legislation of the several States by wnich

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J, dissenting.

288 U.S.

all restraints on corporate size and activity were removed,
and a consideration of the economic and social effects of
such removal, will help to an understanding of Anti-Chain
Store Laws; and will show that the discriminatory license
fees prescribed by Florida, even if treated merely as a
form of taxation, were laid- for a purpose which may be
appropriately served by taxation, and that the specific
means employed to favor the -individual retailer are not
constitutionally objectionable.
Second. The prevalence of the corporation in America
has led men of this generation to act, at times, as if the
privilege of doing business in corporate form were inherent in the citizen; and has led them to accept the evils
attendant upon the free and unrestricted use of the cor-

porate mechanism as if these evils were the inescapable
price of civilized life and, hence, to be borne with resignation. Throughout the greater part of our history a different view prevailed. Although the value of this instrumentality in commerce and industry was fully recognized,
incorporation for business was commonly denied long
after it had been freely granted for religious, educational
and charitable purposes.2 It was denied because of fear.
Fear of encroachment upon the liberties and opportunities
of the individual. Fear of the subjection of labor to
capital. Fear of- monopoly. Fear that the absorption
of capital by corporations, and their perpetual life, might'
bring evils similar to those which attended mortmain2
2

See Joseph S. Davis, Essays in the Earlier History of American
Corporations, Vol. II, pp. 16-18, 308-309. New York permitted in-

corporation under a general law for some business purposes in 1811.
By 1850 a general law. permitting incorporation for a limited business
purpose had become common; and after 1875 extension of the privilege to every lawful business became so.
'Itwas doubtless because of this, that the earlier statutes limited

the life of corporations to fixed terms of 20, 30 or 50 years. See the
statutes cited in subsequent notes.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517-

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

There was a sense of some insidious menace inherent in
large aggregations of capital, particularly when held by
corporations. So, at first, the corporate privilege was
granted sparingly; and only when the grant seemed necessary in order to procure for the community some specific
benefit otherwise unattainable. The later enactment of
general incorporation laws does not signify that the apprehension of corporate domination had been overcome.
The desire for business expansion created an irresistible
demand for more charters; and it was believed that under
general laws embodying safeguards of universal application the scandals and favoritism incident to special
incorporation could be avoided. The general laws, which
long embodied severe restrictions upon size and upon the
scope of corporate activity, were, in part, an expression
of the desire for equality of opportunity.'
The power of legislatures to grant spedial charters was sometimes
strictly limited, even before the adoption of constitutional amendments
withdrawing that power entirely. Thus the New York Constitution
adopted in convention in November, 1821, and by popular vote in
January, 1822, required the assent of two-thirds of each house for any
act "creating, continuing, altering or renewing any body politic or
corporate "--Art. 7, § 9; L. 1822-24, p. x. Similar provisions were
included in the Delaware Constitution of 1831, Art. 2, § 17; in the
Florida Constitution of 1838, Art. 13, § 2 (with an additional requirement of three months' public notice); and in the Michigan Constitution of 1835, Art. 12, § 2. The Rhode Island Constitution of 1842,
Art. 4, § 17, required a bill for a corporate charter to be continued to
the next legislature. The Constitution of Illinois, adopted in 1848,
provided that no act authorizing the formation of a corporation with
banking powers should be effective unless ratified by popular vote-Art. X, § 5; and a similar provision was included in the Constitution
of Wisconsin, 1848, Art. II, §§ 4, 5.
'That the desire for equality and the dread of special privilege were
largely responsible for the general incorporation laws is indicated by
the fact that many States included in their constitutions a prohibition
of the grant of special charters. The first constitutional provision requiring incorporation under general laws seems to be that in the New

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

(a) Limitation upon the amount of the authorized
capital of business corporations was long universal.' The
maximum limit frequently varied with the kinds of business to be carried on, being dependent apparently upon
the supposed requirements of the efficient unit. Although the statutory limits were changed from time to
time this principle of limitation was long retained. Thus
York constitution of 1846-Art. 8, § I (except where objects of incorporation were not thus attainable). Other States followed in later
years. Ala. 1867, Art. 13; Ark. 1874, Art. 12; Calif: 1849, Art. 4,
§ 31; Colo. 1876, Art. 15. §.2; Del. 1897, Art. 9, § 1; Ga. 1868,
Art. 3, § 6 (amended by Laws 1S90-1891, p. 55); Idaho 1889, Art. 11,
§ 2; Ifl. 1848, Art. 10, § 1; Ind 1851, Art. 11, § 13; Iowa 1846, Art. 8,
§ 2; Kans. 1855, Art. 13, § 1; La. 1864, Art. 121; Me. 1875, Art. 4,
§ 14 (except where objects could not thus be attained); Md. 1851,
Art. 3, § 47 (except where objects could not thus be-attained); Mich.
1850, Art. 15, § 1; Minn. 1857, Art. 10, § 2; Miss. 1890, Art. 7, § 178;
Mo. 1865, Art. 8, § 4; Mont. 1889, Art. 15, § 2; Neb. 1866, Tit. Corporations, § 1; Nev. 1864, Art. 8, § 1; N. J. 1875, Art. 4, § 7; N. Car.
1868, Art. 8, § 1 (except where objects could not thus be attained);
N. Dak. 1889, Art. 7, § 131; Ohio 1851, Art. 13, § 1; Ore. 1857,
Art. 11, § 2; Penna. 1874, Art. 3, § 7; S. Dak. 1889, Art. 17, § 1;
Tenn. 1870. Art. 11, § 8; Texas 1876, Art. 12, § 1; Utah 1895, Art. 12,
§ 1; Va. 1902, Art. 12, § 154; Wash. 1889, Art. 12, § 1; W. Va. 1872,
Art. 11, § 1; Wis. 1848, Art. 11, § 1 (except where objects could not
thus be attained).
'Alabama-until 1876, the limit was $200,000. Rev. Code 1867
(Walker), part 2, c. 3, § 1759; Act No. 282, March 3, 1870, § 3,
L. 1869-70, p. 320. Under the Code of 1876 (Wood & Roquemore),
§ 1811, p. 509 (Act of February 28, 1876, § 9, L. 1875-76, p. 244), the
limit was $1,000,000. Under the Code of 1896 (Civil, c. 28, § 1259,
p. 42-), it was $10,000,000. Arizona-Comp. L. 1864-71, c. 51, § 19,
p. 486-$5,000,000. Illinois--$300,000, Act of June 22, 1852, L. p.
135; $1,000,000, Act of February 17, 1857, L. p. 110; $500,000, Act
of February 18, 1857, L. p. 161. Maine-$50,000, Act of March 19,
1862, c. 152, § 3; $200,000, Act of February 28, 1867, c. 125, § 7;
February 26, 1870, c. 93, § 1; $500,000, Act of February 3, 1876, c. 65,
§ 2; $2,000,000, Act of February 14, 1883, c. 116, § 1; $10,000,000,
Act of March 25, 1891, c. 99, § 1. The Act of March 21, 1901, c. 229,
was the first to prescribe no limit. Wisconsin-Until 1879, $250,000,
Rev. Stat. 1878, c. 86, § 1772, p. 516; Act of February 7, 1879, c. 7,

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

in New York the limit was at first $100,000 for some businesses and as little as $50,000 for others.' Until 1881 the
maximum for business corporations in New York was
$2,000,000; and until 1890, $5,000,000.1 In Massachusetts the limit was at first $200,000 for some businesses
and as little as $5,000 for others.8 Until 1871 the maximum for mechanical and manufacturing corporations was
L. 1879, p. 10. Limits were imposed in some cases even by Delaware
(March 21, 1871, c. 152, 14 Del. L. 299) and New Jersey (March 30,
1865, c. 379, L. 1865, p. 707; March 31, 1869, c. 374. L. 1869, p. 1001).
And see the notes following.
'The Act of March 22, 1811, c. 67, limited the capital stock to
$100,000. The purposes for which corporations might be formed
under this law were limited to the following: manufacturing woolen,
cotton or linen goods; making glass; making, from ore, bar-iron,
anchors, mill-irons, steel, nail rods, hoop iron, ironmongery, sheet lead,
shot, white lead and red lead. The Act of April 14, 1817, c. 223, extended the purposes to include the manufacture of morocco and other
leather; but *for such objects the capital stock was not to exceed
$60,000. Further limitations were added from time to time, with the
general limitation of $100,000, or a lower limitation; as, for example,
$50,000 for corporations manufacturing salt. L. 1821, c. 231, § 19.
The Act of 1852,-c. 228, provided for the incorporation of companies
for ocean navigation, and limited the authorized capital to $2,000,000;
this was increased to $4,000,000 by Act of 1853, c. 124; to $8,000,000
by Act of 1866, c. 322; to $20,000,000 by Act of 1867, c. 419; and this
was decreased to $4,000,000 by Act of 1875, c. 445. The Act of 1853,
c. 117, provided for the incorporation of building companies, and set
a maximum of $500,000; this was increased to $1,000,000 by Act of
1870, c. 773. The Act of 1854, c. 232, provided for the incorporation
of companies to navigate lakes and rivers, and set a maximum of
$1,000,000; this was increased to $2,000,000 by Act of 1865, c. 691.
The Act of 1874, c. 143, provided for the incorporation of hotel companies, and set a maximum of $1,000,000.
'The General Business Corporation Act of 1875, c. 611, § 11, set a
maximum of $2,000,000. This was increased to $5,000,000 by Act of
1881, c. 295.
"The first general act, May 15, 1851, c. 133, permitted incorporation
for "any kind of manufacturing, mechanical, mining or quarrying
business." It limited the maximum to $200,000. Act of March 19,
1855, c. 68, § 1, increased the maximum to $500,000. The act of

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

The limit of
$500,000; and until 1899, $1,000,000.
$100,000 was retained for some businesses until 1903.1"
In many other states, including the leading ones in some
industries, the removal of the limitations upon size was
more recent. Pennsylvania did not remove the limits
May 9, 1870, c. 224 (Acts & Res. 1870, p. 154) repealed previous acts
(§ 69) and made more comprehensive provisions; cutting, storing and
selling ice, or carrying on any agricultural, horticultural, mechanical,
mining, quarrying or manufacturing business, printing and publishing-a maximum of $500,000 (§ 2); codperation in any of the above businesses and co~perative trade-$50,000 (§ 3); opening outlets, canals
or ditches, propagation of herrings and alewives--5,000 (§ 4); making and selling gas for light in cities or towns--500,000 (§ 5); common carriage of goods.-$1,000,000 (§ 6). Later acts provided for the
manufacture and distribution of gas for steam, heat, power, and cooking; and for the furnishing of hydrostatic and pneumatic pressure.
A maximum of $500,000 Wqas prescribed. Acts of April 9, 1879, c. 202;
May 15, 1885, c. 240; April 11, 1891, c. 189; May 27, 1893, c. 397.
The same limit was prescribed for corporations to erect and maintain
hotels, public halls, and buildings for manufacturing purposes. Acts
of April 24, 1872, c. 244; March 9, 1888, c. 116.
'The maximum limit was raised to $1,000,000 for manufacturing
and mechanical business by Act of March 22, '1871, e. 110, § 1; and
for mining corporations by Act of May-3, 1875, c. 177, § 3; and to
$100,000 for co6perative trade by Act of April 11, 1879, c. 210. By
Act of April 14, 1873, c. 179, the general act was extended to the common carriage of persons-except by railroad-and the limit of
$1,000,000 was retained. The Act of April 14, 1874, c. 165, authorized incorporation for "any lawful business," not specifically provided
for, and limited the amount of stock to $1,000,000. The maximum
limit for manufacturing and mechanical corporations was removed by
Act of March 28, 1899, c. 199. For.all the other corporat purposes,
the limitations above-named remained until the passage of the Business Corporation Law, June 17, 1903, c. 437. By that time commissions with power to supervise the issues of public service corporations
had long been established. Act of June 11, 1885, c. 314; Act of June
5, 1894, c. 450; Act of June 5, 1894, c. 452; Act of June 9, 1894, c. 462.
*" For all except mechanical and manufacturing corporations, the
limitations set out in notes 8 and 9, supra, remained until the passage
of the Business Corporation Law, June 17, 1903, c. 437.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

until 1905." Its first general act not having contained a
maximum limit, that of '$500,000 was soon imposed."'
Later, it was raised to $1,000,000; and, for iron and steel
companies, to $5,000,000." Vermont limited the maximum to $1,000,000 until 1911 " when no amount over
$10,000,000 was authorized if, in the opinion of a judge
of the supreme court, such a capitalization would tend
"to create a monopoly or result in restraining competition
in trade." " Maryland limited until 1918 the capital of
mining companies to $3,000,000; and prohibited them
from holding more than 500 acres of land (except in Allegany County, where 1,000 acres was allowed).'
New
Hampshire did not remove the maximum limit until
1919. 1 It had been $1,000,000 until 1907,"8 when it was
increased to $5,000,000.9 Michigan did not remove the
maximum limit until 1921.0 The maximum, at first
'Act of April 22, 1905, No. 190, amending Act of February 9, 1901,
No. 1; 5 Purdon's Digest, 1905-09 Supp. (13th ed.), p. 5340.
'The first Act passed in 1849, L. 1849, No. 368, p. 563, contained
no limit. But a limit of $500,000 was imposed by Act of July 18,
1863, No. 949, L. 1864, p. 1102.
",The limit was raised to $1,000,000 for iron and steel corporations
by Act of March 25, 1873, No. 4, L. 1873, p. 28, and it was extended
to other corporations by Act of April 29, 1874, L. 1874, p. 73, which
also increased the limit for the former to $5,000,000. The Act of
April 18, 1873, No. 54, L. 1873, p. 76, had required that the Attorney
General be satisfied of the reasonableness of so large a capitalization.
"Pub. Stat. (1906), Tit. 25, c. 187, § 4311, p. 830.
u Act of January 28, 1911, No. 143, L. 1910, pp. 140, 141-142. This
provision was repealed by General Corporation Act, April 1, 1915,
No. 141, L. 1915, p. 222.
"'Bagby's Code (1911), Art. 23, § 245, p. 648; repealed by Act of
April 10, 1918, c. 417, L. 1918, p. 884.
"Business Corporation Law, March 28, 1919, c. 92, L. 1919, p. 113.
'Pub. Stat. (1901), c. 147, § 6, p. 470.
"Act of April 5, 1907, c. 129, L. 1907, p. 131.
"General Corporation Act, No. 84, April 26, 1921, L. 1921, p. 125,
contains no limit on the amount of stock. Corporate life is limited
to 30 years, § 5(b).

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

288 US.

$100,000," had been gradually increased until in 1903 it
became $10,000,000 for some corporations and $25,000,000
for others; 2 and in 1917 became $50,000,000.6 Indiana
did not remove until 1921 themaximum limit of $2,000,000
for petroleum and natural gas corporations." Missouri
Texas
did not remove its maximum limit until 1927.25
2
still has such a limit for certain corporations.
(b) Limitations upon the scope of a business corporation's powers. and activity were also long uhiversal. At
first, corporations could be formed under the general laws
only for a limited number of purposes-usually those
which required a relatively large fixed capital, like transportation, banking, and insurance, and mechanical, min' Act 148, May 18, 1846, § 6, L. 1846, pp. 265, 267--corporation for
mining or manufacturing iron, copper, etc.
I "Act 232, June 18, 1903, 3 Howell's Mich. Stat. (1914),
§ 9533,
p. 3815. The $25,000,000 maximum was for mercantile and manufacturing corporations. It had previously been raised to $5,000,000 by
Act 232, September 19, 1885, § 2, L. 1885, p. 343. For mining corporations, a different maximum was fixed: $500,000 by Act 41, February 5, 1853, L. 1853, p. 53; $2,500,000 by Act 113, May 11, 1877,
§ 4, L. 1877, p. 87; and $10,000,000 by Act 233, September 17, 1903,
Howell's Mich. Stat. (1914); § 7783, p. 3158, § 7804, p. 3165.
"Act 254, May 10, 1917, § 2, L. 1917, pp. 529, 530. See Dodge v.
Ford Motor Co., 204 Mich. 459, 494; 170 N. W. 668.
' Until 1921, corporations for various objects were formed under
various acts. For mining corporations, a limit of $2,000,000 was prescribed. 2 Burns' Ind. Stat. (1914), § 5137; 2 id. (1926), § 5547. In
1921, a general act, applicable to corporations for any lawful business,
was passed, without limitation on the amount of stock. Act of February 28, 1921, c. 35, L. 1921, p. 93.
'By Act of March 30, 1907, L. 1907, p. 166, the maximum was
increased to $50,000,000 from the $10,000,000 limit Ireviously in
force; Rev. Stat. 1899, c. 12, Art. 9, § 1320, p. 429; Rev. Stat. 1919,
c. 90, Art. 7, § 10152. The act was repealed and no maximum provided in Act of April 8, 1927, L. 1927, p. 395; 1927 Supp. to Rev.
Stat. § 10152.
15, 16, 27. See Act of
"I Rev. Stat. (1925), Tit. 32, Art. 1302,
March 9, 1925, c. 51, L. 1925, p. 188.

LIGGETT 'CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDiu

555

s, J., dissenting.

ing, and manufacturing enterprises."7 Permission to incorporate for "any lawful purpose "I" was not common
until 1875; -anduntil that time the duration of corporate
franchises was generally limited to a period of 20, 30, or
50 years.29 All, or a majority, of the incorporators or
directors, or both, were required to be residents of the incorporating state."0 The powers which the corporation
might exercise in carrying out its purposes were sparingly
conferred and strictly construed. Severe limitations were
imposed on the amount of indebtedness, bonded or other"See notes 6 and 8, supra. The first general act in New Jersey
was that of February 25, 1846, L. 1846, p. 64. In Michigan-May 18,
1846, Act 148, L. 1846, p. 265. In Illinois--February 10, 1849,
L. 1849, p. 87. In Pennsylvania-April 7, 1849, No. 368, L. 1849,
p. 563. In Massachusetts-May 15, 1851, c. 133, Gen. Stat. 1860
(2 ed.), p. 341. In Maine-March 19, 1862, c. 152, L. 1862, p. 118.
In Delaware-March 21, 1871, c. 152, 14 Del. L. 229. In general, the
objects of incorporation under these acts were limited to mining, manufacturing, mechanical or chemical business; separate acts governed
the formation of banking, insurance, and transportation companies.
Authority to incorporate for mercantile business, where specifically
provided, was given relatively late. E. g., Md. Laws 1894, c. 599;
Tenn.Acts 1887, c. 139; Vt. Laws 1884, No. 105; compare Ind. Laws
.1889, c. 81, § 1. And see Cook on Corporations (1889), p. 91: "The
general corporation laws [of Pennsylvania] do not provide for mercantile corporations, but these are practically incorporated by means
of 'partnership associations.' . ."

"New York-L. 1866, c. 838, p. 1896; L. 1875, c. 611, p. 755.
Illinois--July 1, 1872, L. 1872, p. 296. Massachusetts--Act of April
14, 1874, c. 165, § 1. Maine-Februar 3, 1876, c. 65, L. 1876, p. 51.
Other States followed shortly.
"In 1903, almost half the states limited the duration of corporate
existence to periods of from 20 to 50 years. See Report of the Committee on Corporation Laws of Massachusetts (1903), pp. 162-164.
'E. g., Calif. Civ. Code (1885), § 285; Conn. Gen. Stat. (1888),
§ 1944; Ill. Rev. Stat. (1891), c. 114, § 11; Me. Rev. Stat. (1883),
pp. 412, 467; Md. Gen. L. (1888), p. 299; Ohio Rev. Stat. (1886),
§ 3236; Pa. Dig. (Purdon's 1905), Tit. Corporations, § 63. Compare
Wis. Stat. (1908), c. 85, § 1750 (chief managing officer or superintendent must reside in state, except in case of interstate railroad).

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

wise." The power to hold stock in other corporations was
not conferred or implied.2 The holding company was
impossible.
See, e. g., N. Y. Laws 1825, p. 448, § 3, 1 Rev. Stat. (1852), c. 18,
Tit. 4, § 3, p. 1175; N. Y. Laws 1875, c. 611, § 22; Ill. Laws 1849,
p. 87, § 22, p. 92; Ill. Laws 1872, p. 296, § 16, p. 300; Pa. Laws 1874,
p. 73, § 13, p. 80; Maine Laws 1867, p. 72, § 24, p. 75; N. J. Laws
1846, p. 64, § 28, p. 69; N. J. Laws 1874, p. 124, § 16, p. 129. In
1903, almost half the states retained limitations on corporate indebtedness. See Report of the Committee on Corporation Laws of Massachusetts (1903), pp. 165-166.
See Noyes, Intercorporate Relations (2d ed., 1909), pp. 473-498;
Morawetz, Private Corporations (2d ed., 1886), § 431. New Jersey
was the first 9tate to confer the general power of intercorporate stockholding. N. J. Laws 1888, pp. 385, 445, cc. 269, 295; N. J. Laws
1893, a. 171, p. 301. See Gilbert H. Montague, Trusts of Today (1904),
pp. 20-21; C. R. Van Hise, Concentration and Control (rev. ed., 1914),
p. 70; W. Z. Ripley, Trusts, Pools and Corporations (rev. ed., 1916),
pp. xix-xx; Eliot Jones, The Trust Problem in the United States
(1921), p. 30; Maurice H. Robinson, The Holding Corporation, 18
Yale Review, pp 390, 406-407. Although unconditional power was
not conferred until the Act of 1893, supra, it had been the practice of
corporations formed in New Jersey to purchase the shares of other
corporations. See Edward S. Keasbey, New Jersey and the Great
Corporations, 13 Harvard Law Review, pp. 198, 207, 208. In no other
state had there been a provision permitting the formation of holding
companies, although by special act, notably in Pennsylvania, a few
such companies had been formed. See James C. Bonbright and Gardiner C. Means, The Holding Company (1932), pp. 58-64. The
scandal to which the series of Pennsylvania holding-company charters
gave rise led to a constitutional amendment in that state forbidding
the grant of special charters. Pa. Laws 1874, p. 8; Pa. Const., Art.
III, § 7. See Bonbright and Means, supra, at p. 60. New York,
like other states, had specifically prohibited intercorporate stockholding, except where the stock held was that of a corporation supplying.
necessary materials to the purchasing corporation, or where it was
t(aken as security for, or in satisfaction of, an antecedent debt. N. Y.
Laws 1848, c. 40, § 8; 1876, c. 358; 1890, c. 564, § 40; 1890, c. 567,
§ 12. See De La Vergna Co. v. German Savings Institution, 175
U. S. 40, 54-58.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J.. dissenting.

(c) The removal by the leading industrial States of the
limitations upon the size and powers of business corporations appears to have been due, not to their conviction
that maintenance of the restrictions wis undesirable in
itself, but to the conviction that it was futile to insist
upon them; because local restriction would be circumvented by foreign incorporation. Indeed, local restriction seemed worse than futile. Lesser States, eager for
the revenue8 8 derived from the traffic in charters, had removed safeguards from their own incorporation laws."'
" The filing fees and franchise taxes are commonly measured by the
authorized or issued stock. See National Industrial Conference Board,
State and Local Taxation of Business Corporations (1931), Appendix B, pp. 138-159. And for the earlier laws, utilizing the same
basis, see Report of the Massachusetts Committee on Corporation
Laws (1903), pp. 265-288; House Committee on the District of Columbia, Report of Hearings of January 16, 1905, on H. R. 11811 and
12303 (Gov't Ptg. Office 1905) pp. 24-28.
" The traffic in charters quickly became widespread. In 1894 Cook
on Stock and Stockholders (3d ed.) Vol. II, pp. 1604-1605 thus described the situation: "New Jersey is a favorite state for incorporations. Her laws seem to be framed with a special view to attracting
incorporation fees and business fees from her sister states and especially from New York, across the river. She has largely succeeded in
doing so, and now runs the state government very largely on revenues
derived from New York enterprises....
"Maine formerly was a resort for incorporators, but a recent decision of its highest court holding stockholders liable on stock which has
been issued for property, where the court thought the property was
not worth the par value of the stock, makes Maine too dangerous a
state to incorporate in, especially where millions of dollars of stock are
to be issued for mines, patents and other choice assortments of
property....
"West Virginia for the past ten years has been the Snug Harbor for
roaming and piratical corporations ....
The manufatture of corporations for the purpose of enabling them to do all their business elsewhere seems to be the policy of this young but enterprising state. Ite
statutes seem to be expressly framed for. that purpose..

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., -dissenting.

288 U.S.

Companies were early formed to provide charters for
corporations in states where the cost was lowest and the
laws least restrictive." The states joined in advertising
In 1906 John S. Parker thus described the practice, in his volume
Where and How-A Corporation Handbook (2d ed.), p. 4: "Many
years ago the corporation laws of New Jersey were so framed as to
invite the incorporation of companies by persons residing in other
states and countries. The liberality and facility with which corporations could there be formed were extensively advertised, and a great
volume of incorporation swept into that state ...
"The policy of New Jersey proved profitable to the state, and soon
legislatures of other states began active competition ...
"Delaware and Maine also revised their laws, taking the New Jersey
act as a model, but with lower, organization fees and annual taxes.
Arizona and South Dakota also adopted liberal corporation laws, and
contenting themselves with the incorporation fees, require no annual
state taxes whatever.
"West Virginia for many years has been popular with incorporators,
but in 1901, in the face -of the growing competition of other states, the
legislature increased the rate of annual taxes." And West Virginia
thus lost her popularity. See Conyngton and Bennett, Corporation
Procedure (rev. ed. 1927), p. 7 12 . On the other hand, too drastic price
cutting was also unprofitable. The bargain prices in Arizona and
South Dakota attracted wildcat corporations. Investors became wary
of corporations organized under the laws of Arizona or South Dakota
and both states fell in disrepute among them and consequently among
.incorporators. See Conyngton on Corporate Organizations (1913),
ch. 5.
'Thus, in its pamphlet, "Business Corporations Under the Laws
of Maine'" (1903), the Corporation Trust Co. enumerated among the
advantages of the Maine laws: the comparatively low organization
fees and annual taxes; the absence of restrictions upon capital stock
or corporate indebtedness; the authority to issue stock for services as
well as property, with the judgment of the directors as to their value
conclusive; and, significantly enough, "the method of'taxation, which
bases the annual tax upon the stock issued, does not necessitate inquiry -into or report upon the intimate affairs of the corporation."
See also its pamphlet "Business Corporations Under the Laws of
Delaware" (1907). See also the Red Book on Arizona Corporation
Laws (1908), published by the Incorporating Company of Arizona,
especially p. 5: "The remoteness of Arizona from the Eastern and

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

559

J., dissenting.

their wares."
The race was one not of diligence but of
laxity."' Incorporation under such laws was possible;
and the great industrial States yielded in order not to
Southern States has in a measure delayed the promulgation of the
generousness of its laws. New Jersey, Delaware and West Virginia
have become widely known as incorporating states. More recently
Arizona, Dakota, New Mexico and Nevada have come into more or
less prominence by the passage of laws with liberal features."
"Thus, ih an official pamphlet containing the corporation laws of
Delaware (1901), the Secretary. of State wrote in the preface: "It is
believed that no state has on its statute books more complete and
liberal laws than these;" and the outstanding advantages were then
enumerated. See also a pamphlet "Orgaization of Corporations,"
issued by the Secretary of State of Maine in 1904. See also "The
General Corporation Act of New Jersey" (1898), edited by J. B. Dill,
issued by the Secretary of State: "Since 1875 it has been the announced and settled policy of New Jersey to attract incorporated
capital to the State ... " P. xvii. And "The General Corporation
Laws of West Virginia" (1905), published by the Secretary of State,
containing, at pp. 209-210, a summary of the advantages of incorporating in West Virginia. For other examples, see -Henry R. Seager and
Charles A. Gulick, Jr., Trust and Corporation Problems (1929), c. 4.
"A change in the policy of New Jersey was urged by Woodrow
Wilson in his inaugural address as Governor. "If I may speak very
plainly, we are much too free with grants of charters to corporations
in New Jersey. A corporation exists, not of natural right, but only
by license of law, and the law, if we look at the matter in good conscience, is responsible for what it creates. . . . I would urge, therefore, the imperative obligation of public policy and of public honesty
we are under to effect such changes in the law of the State as will
henceforth effectually prevent the abuse of the privilege of incorporation which has in recent years brought so much discredit upon our
State. . . . If law is at liberty to adjust the general conditions of
society itself, it is at liberty to control these great instrumentalities
.,which nowadays, in so large part, determine the character of society."
Minutes of Assembly of New Jersey, January 17, 1911, pp. 65, 69; reprinted in Public Papers of Woodrow Wilson (ed. by Baker and
Dodd), Vol. II, pp. 273, 274, 275. In 1913 the so-called "SevenSisters" Acts were passed by New Jersey, forbidding, among other
things, intercorporate stockholding. Laws 1913, c. 18. These, in
turn, were'repealed in 1917. Laws 1917, c. 195. The report recom-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS

J dissenting.

288 U.S.

lose wholly the prospect of the revenue and the control
incident to domestic incorporation.
The history of the changes made by New York is illustrative. The New York revision of 1890, which eliminated the maximum limitation on authorized capital, and
mending the repeal stated: "Those laws now sought to be repealed
are harmful to the State because there is much uncertainty as to their
meaning; with the result that those who would have otherwise incorporated here or remained here are going to other States. There is no
gain to the people of the country, but this State loses a revenue which
is perfectly legitimate. We doubt not that much of the adverse criticism outside of the State which was directed against New Jersey and
its corporation laws prior to 1913 was due as much to the desire to
divert the organization of corporations to other States as it was to
prevent evils which might have arisen, and New Jersey fell for the
criticism. To whatever cause may be attributed the loss of revenue
to the State, it is plain that it is a condition and not a theory which
confronts the State, as the following figures will show: .

.

. Such

losses mean a serious depletion of the revenues of the State, and,
unless a different policy is pursued, it will not be long before the corporation business of the State will have been reduced to a minimum.
We believe such conditions justify the appointment of the Commission
and will also justify the Legislature in adopting the result of our
investigation and embodied in the proposed revision." Report of the
Commission to Revise the Corporation Laws of New Jersey, 1917,
pp. 7-8.
For more recent movements, see A. A. Berle and Gardiner C. Means,
The Modern Corporation and Private Property (1932), p. 206, n. 18:
"As significant of the trend towards that corporate mechanism with
the broadest powers to the management,-it is interesting to note the
steady trend towards the states having a loose incorporation law. Of
the 92 holding corporations mentioned above [those'whose securities
were listed on the New York Stock Exchange and were active in 1928]
44 were organized in Delaware, all of them being formed since 1910.
Indeed, of the 44 holding corporations now chartered in that state,
25 were incorporated there between the years 1925 and 1928. In the
less liberal Ziew York State 13 of the above holding companies were

formed, 6 of them having been chartered between 1910 and 1920, while
only 4 were formed since 1920. Ten of the holding companies were
chartered in Maryland, one in 1920 and the remaining 9 between 1923
and 1928, presumably in large measure as a result of the looseness of

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

permitted intercorporate stockholding in a limited class of
cases,"8 was assed after a migration of incorporation from
New York, attracted by the more liberal incorporation
laws of New Jersey." But the changes made by New
York in 1890 were not sufficient to stem the tide. 0 In
the Maryland corporation law of 1923. New Jersey, a relatively popular state at the turn of the century shows only two of the holding
company charters granted there since 1910; while Virginia shows 7
such charters.
"Combined holding and operating corporations likewise show a
steady trend towards Delaware. Of the whole list, 148 of the .573 corporations hold Delaware charters, most of them relatively recent; New
York is second with 121, most of them relatively old; New Jersey
third with 87, most of which grow out of the great merger period
from 1898-1910."
Corporations formed in one state by citizens of another state, to do
business in the state of their residence, were frequently subjected to
collateral attack. Generally the courts felt bound to uphold the corporate status. See the cases in J. H. Sears, The New Place of the
Stockholder (1929), Appendix G. Occasionally, however, states legislated against the practice. Thus California enacted that the statutory
liability of stockholders should apply to those in foreign as well as in
domestic corporations. In two cases where the foreign corporation
was organized specifically to do business in California this provision
was held applicable. Pinney v. Nelson, 183 U.. S. 144; Thomas v.
Matthiessen, 232 U. S. 221. And more recently this Court has sustained a constitutional provision of Virginia which prohibits foreign
public service companies from doing an intrastate business in the state.
Railway Express Agency v. Virginia, 282 U. S. 440. The provision
was adopted in the light of widespread incorporation of such companies in West Virginia and New Jersey. See Debates of Constitutional Convention of Virginia, 1901-1902, Vol. II, p. 2811.
"One corporation was allowed to hold stock in others so long as the
latter were engaged in manufacturing materials, etc., necessary for the
former; and in others, which used products of -the former. Business
Corporation Law, 1890, c. 567; § 12.
'See note 34, supra.
'See Report of N. Y. Joint Committee on Trusts, March 9, 1897,
120th Sess., Sen. Doc. No. 30, pp. 3-4: "When in 1890 the Court of
Appeals in this State pronounced its final judgment against the system of trust organization then in vogue [New York v. North River

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

1892, the Governor of New York approved a special charter for the General Electric Company, modelled upon the
New Jersey Act, on the ground that otherwise the enterprise would secure a New Jersey charter.4 1 Later in the
same year the New York corporation law was again revised,
allowing the holding of stock in other corporations. 2 But
the New Jersey law still continued to be more attractive to
By specifically providing that corporaincorporators."
Sugar Refining Co., 121 N. Y. 582; 24 N. E. 834], the 'trust' became
a thing of the past, existing trust agreements were dissolved and
under the permission of existing laws the constituent elements held
together under such agreements, became incorporated in the State of
New Jersey and in other jurisdictions, where, either by accident or by
design, the law of incorporation was so adjusted that by the simplest
formality a trust declared unlawful and a conspiracy against public
welfare might continue its career....
"The corporation laws of the State of New York at that time
differed essentially from the laws of the State of New Jersey in that
they did not, as did the latter, permit the acquisition by on corporation of the capital stock of another, and consequently there followed
an immediate migration of trusts to the State of New Jersey to secure
corporate charters there and thus avoid complications in which the
decision of the Court of Appeals threatened to involve them."
N. Y. Laws 1892, c. 323. "The measure is approved because it
is claimed that its objects cannot well be secured under general laws,
and because its approval will keep within the State a corporation
which professes to be ready to invest a large amount of capital, and
which, without the concessions allowed by its proposed charter, would
be incorporated under the laws of New Jersey." Public Papers of
Governor Flower, 1892, p. 104. Quoted in James B. Dill, "Some
Aspects of New Jersey's Corporate Policy," Address before the Pennsylvania Bar Association, June 29, 1903, Rep. Pa. Bar Assn., 1903,
pp. 265, 267.
" N. Y. Laws 1892, c. 688, § 40.
"The New York Evening Post, March 23, 1896, said: "The
Evening Post has frequently pointed out that New York capital is
driven to shelter in New Jersey by reason of the more liberal laws of
that State governing the incorporation of companies as compared
with the laws of New York. Nearly all large corporations doing business in this City and State are incorporated under the laws of New
Jersey or some other State, where more liberal laws prevail and in'

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

tions might be formed in New Jersey to do all their business elsewhere," the state made its policy unmistakably
clear. Of the seven largest trusts existing in 1904, with
an aggregate capitalization of over two and a half billion
dollars, all were organized under New Jersey law; and
three of these were formed in 1899."' During the first
seven months of that year, 1336 corporations were organized under the laws of New Jersey, with an aggregate
authorized capital of over two billion dollars.4" The
Comptroller of New York, in his annual report for 1899,
complained that "our tax list reflects little of the great
wave of organization that has swept over the country
during the past year and to which this state contributed
more capital than any other state in the Union." "It is
time," he declared, "that great corporations having their
actual headquarters in this State and a nominal office
elsewhere, .doing nearly all of their business within our
borders, should be brought within the jurisdiction of this
State not only as to matters of taxation but in respect
to other and equally important affairs." " In 1901 the
New York corporation law was again revised."
which inducements are thereby held out to attract capital thither and
make it their legal home."
"N. J. Laws 1892, p. 90. In 1894, New Jersey provided by statute

that corporations of another state should be subjected to the same
taxes, license and other requirements in New Jersey as are imposed on
New Jersey corporations by such other state. Laws 1894, c. 228, § 3.
The statute was "in retaliation for the hostile legislation of some of
the other States regarding foreign corporations." J. B. Dill, The
General Incorporation Act of New Jersey (1898), p. 100.
" See Moody, The Truth About the Trusts, p. 453. Of the 298
corporations listed as "lesser industrial trusts," 150 had New Jersey
charters. Id., pp. 454-467.
"Edward K. Keasbey, "New Jersey and the Great Corporations,"
Address before the American Bar Association, August 28, 1899, reprinted in 13 Harvard L. Rev., p. 198.
"Report of Comptroller of New York, 1890, p. xxvii.
"N. Y. Laws 1901, cc. 355, 520.

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

The history in other states was similar. Thus, the
Massachusetts revision of 1903 was precipitated by the
fact that "the possibilities of incorporation in other states
have become well known, and have been availed'of to'the
detriment of this Commonwealth." '"
Third. Able, discerning scholars o have pictured for us
the economic and social results of thus removing all limitations upon the size and activities of business corporations
Report of Committee on Corporation Laws, Massachusetts (1903),
p. 19. The Governor of Michigan, in his Message to the Legislature
in 1921, said of the corporation laws of that state: "Because of their
inadequacy to meet modern needs and requirements, and the failure

to accord domestic corporations the same rights granted to those
organized outside of the state, most of our business corporations are
being organized in other states, only to return here as foreign corporations." Journal of House of Representatives of Michigan, 1921,
pp. 31, 37; reprinted in Messages of the Governors of Michigan
(Michigan Historical Commission, 1927), Vol. 4, pp. 775, 784. In
1921 the corporation laws of Michigan were revised, eliminating,
among other things, the maximum limitation on capital stock. See
note 20, supra.
.The effect of the policy of West Virginia was described by President
Henry M. Russell in an address before the West Virginia Bar Association in 1891. In the six years ending January 1, 1889, he stated,
330 charters were issued by the state to corporations having their
principal places of business elsewhere. Of these, 101 were to be in the
District of Columbia, and 65 in New York. "The neighboring State
of Pennsylvania has adopted very stringent laws for the government.
So our Pennsylvania friends who have
of its corporations ....
patent rights or gold mines, come to West Virginia .... Of our 330

corporations, 80 were to have their principal offices in Pennsylvania.
Our other neighbor, the State of Ohio, carries upon its statute book
a law imposing a double liability on the stockholders for the debts of
the corporation . . . and '30 out of the 330 have their principal

offices in Ohio. Thus 284 of the 330 are found in the cities of Washington and New York and the States of PLnnsylvania and Ohio....
It is unjust to our sister States." 27 American L. Rev., p. 105.
"Adolf A. Berle, Jr. and Gardiner C. Means, The Modem Corporation and Private Property (1932). Compare William Z. Ripley,

Main Street and Wall'Street (1927).

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIM,

J., dissenting.

and of vesting in their managers vast powers once exercised by stockholders--results not designed by the States
and long unsuspected. They show that size alone gives
to giant corporations a social significance not attached
ordinarily to smaller units of private enterprise. Through
size, corporations, once merely an efficient tool employed
by individuals in the conduct of private business, have

become an institution-an institution which has brought
such concentration of economic power that so-called private corporations are sometimes able to dominate the
State. The typical business corporation of the last century, owned by a small group of individuals, managed by
their owners, and limited in size by their personal wealth,
is being supplanted by huge concerns in which the lives
of tens or hundreds of thousands .of employees and the
property of tens or hundreds of thousands of investors are
subjected, through the corporate mechanism, to the control of a few men. Ownership has been separated from control; and this separation has removed many of the checks
which formerly operated to curb the misuse of wealth
and power. And as ownership of the shares is becoming
continually more dispersed, the power which formerly
accompanied ownership is becoming increasingly concentrated in tIe hands of a few. The changes thereby
wrought in the lives of the workers, of the owners and
of the general public, are so fundamental and far-reaching
as to lead these scholars to compare the evolving "corporate system-" with the feudal system; and to lead other
men of insight and experience to assert that this "master
institution of civilised life " is committing it to the rule
of a plutocracy."
The data submitted in support of these conclusions
indicate that in the United States the process of absorp" thorstein Veblen, Absentee Ownership and Business Enterprise
(1923), p. 86; Walther Rathenau, Die Neue Wirstchaft (1918), pp.
78-41.

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANEis, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

tion has already advanced so far that perhaps two-thiids
of our industrial wealth has passed from individual possession to the ownership of large corporations whose shares
are dealt in on the stock exchange; 5" that 200 non-banking
corporations, each with assets in excess of $90,000,000,
control directly about one-fourth of all our national
wealth, and that their influence extends far beyond the
assets under their direct control; " that these 200 corporations, while nominally controlled by about 2,000 directors,
are actually dominated by a few hundred persons"--the
negation of industrial democracy. Other writers have
shown that, coincident with the growth of these giant
corporations, there has occurred a marked concentration
of individual wealth ;5 and that the resulting disparity in
" Berle and Means, The Modern Corporation and Private Property, Preface, p. vii.
"Id., pp. 31-32. Compare H. W. Laidler, Concentration of Control in American Industry (1931).
" Berle and Means, p. 46, n. 34. 'Compare James C. Bonbright and
Gardiner C. Means, The Holding Company (1932); Regulation of
Stock Ownership in Railroads, H. R. No. 2789, 71st Cong., 3d Sess.
(Dr. W. M. W. Splawn); Hearings before Senate Judiciary Committee, 72d Cong., 2d Sess., on S.5267, February 14, 1933 (John Frey);
Stanley Edwin Howard, Business, Incorporated, in Facing the Facts
(J. G. Smith, ed., 1932), p. 124 et seq.; Lewis Corey, The House of
Morgan, pp. 354-356, 441-448; George W. Norris, The Spider Web
of Wall Street, Cong. Rec., 72d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 4917-4928 (February 23, 1933).
"Federal Trade Commission, National Wealth and Income (1926);
S. Howard Patterson and Karl W. H. Scholz, Economic Problems of
Modern Life (1927), c. 22; Lewis Corey, The New Capitalism, in
American Labor Dynamics (J. B. S. Hardman, ed., 1928), c. 3;
Stuart Chase, Prosperity-Fact or Myth (1929),. c. 9; H. Gordon
Hayes, Our Economic System (1929), Vol. II, c. 56; Willard E. Atkins
et al., Economic Behavior (1931), Vol. II, c. 34; Harold Brayman,
Wealth Rises to the Top, in Outlook and Independent, Vol. 158, No. 3
(May 20, 1931), p. 78; Buel W. Patch, Death Taxes anti The Concentration of Wealth, in Editorial Research, Reports, Vol. II, 1931,
No. 11 (September 18, 1931), pp. 635-637; Frederick C. Mills,
Economic Tendencies in the United States (National Bureau of

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

567

J., dissenting.

incomes is a major cause of the existing depression."8
Such is the Frankenstein monster which States have
created by their corporation laws."7
Economic Research, in Co-operation with the Committee on Recent
Economic Changes, 1932), pp. 476-528, 549-558; Paul H. Douglas,
Dividends Soar, Wages -Drop, in World Tomorrow, December 28,
1932; p. 610; reprinted in Congressional Record, 72nd Cong., 2d
Sess., Vol. 76, p. 2291 (January 20, 1933). Compare Morris A.
Copeland, The National Income and its Distribution, in Recent
Economic Changes in the United States (Report of President's Conference on Unemployment, Committee on Recent Economic Changes,
1929), Vol. II, c. 12; Willford I. King, The National Income and Its
Purchasing Power (1930). George L. Knapp pointed out that in
1929, 504 persons had $1,185,135,300 taxable net income, whereas the
aggregate gross market value of all the cotton and all the wheat grown
in the United States in 1930 by the 2,332,000 cotton and wheat farmers was only $1,191,451,000 (see Labor, March 31, 1931, p. 4; id.,
May 19, 1931, p. 4; id., November 29, 1932 1i. 4); and that the
estimate of the aggregate dividends and interest paid in the United
Stat s in 1932 was $1,642,000,000, whereas that of factory wages was
$903,000,000. See Labor, February 14, 1933, p. 4. (Compare the
final figures in Bureau of Internal Revenue, Statistics of Income for
1929, pp. 5, 61, showing that 513 persons had taxable net income of
$1,212,098,784.)
"'Compare J. A. Hobson, Poverty in Plenty (1931), chs. 2, 4;
Arthur B. Adams, The Business Depression of 1930, in American
Economic Review, Vol. 21 (March, 1931, supplement), p. 183; John A.
Ryan, The Industrial Depression of 1929-1931, in Questions of The
Day '(1931), pp. 209-217; Philip F. LaFollette, Message to the Legislature of Wisconsin, November 24, 1931, pp. 6-8; Fred Henderson,
Economic Consequences of Power Production (1931), c. 1; Paul
Blanshard, Socialist and Capitalist Planning, in Annals of The
American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 162 (July,
1932), pp. 6-8; Arthur Dahlberg, Jobs, Machines, and Capitalism
(1932), pp. 205-208; Scott Nearing, Must We Starve? (1932), p. 119;
George Soule, The Maintenance of Wages, in Proceedings of The
Academy of Political Science, Vol. 14, No. 4 (January, 1932), pp. 87,
91; Christ Christensen, Major Problems of Readjustment, in id., Vol.
15, No. 2 (January, 1933), p. 235; Taylor Society Bulletin, Vol. 17,
No. 5 (October, 1932); pp. 165-193.
" Compare I. Maulice Wormser, Frankenstein, Incorporated (1931).

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

Fourth.. Among these 200 corporations, each with assets
in excess of $90,000,000, are five of the plaintiffs. These
five have in the aggregate, $820,000,000 of assets; " and
they operate, in the several States, an aggregate of 19,718
stores. " A single one of these giants operates nearly

16,000."0 Against these plaintiffs, and other owners of
multiple stores, the individual retailers of Florida are en.gaged in a struggle to preserve their independence-perhaps a struggle for existence. The citizens of the State,

considering themselves vitally interested in this seemingly
unequal struggle, have undertaken to aid the individual
retailers by subjecting the owners of multiple stores to-

the handicap of higher license fees. They may have done
so merely in order to preserve competition. But their
purpose may have been a broader and deeper one. They

may have believed that the chain store, by furthering the
concentration of wealth and of power and by promoting
absentee ownership, is thwarting American ideals; that

it is making impossible equality of opportunity; that it
is converting independent tradesmen into clerks; and that
See Berle and Means, The Modern Corporation and Private Property, p. 21. This figure includes the assets of Drug, Inc., which in
1928 acquired the stock of United Drug Co., which in turn controls
through stock ownership the Louis K. Liggett Co. See Moody's Industrial Securities (1932), pp. 1215, 1217, 1219.
'The total is compiled -from figures, as of December 31, 1930, in
Report of Federal Trade Commission on Growth and Development of
Chain Stores, Sen. Doc. No. 100, 72d Cong., '1st Sess. (1932), pp.
76-77. Compare English Co-operative Wholesale Society, Limited,
[U. 5.]. Commerce Reports, February 18, 1933, p. 104.
The Report of the Federal Trade Commission, supra, note 59, at
p. 76, gives 15,73, as the number of stores operated by the Great
Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co. The number operated by the other
four plaintiffs is as follows: Louis K. Liggett Co., 549; Montgomery
Ward & Co., 556; United Cigar Stores Co., 994; F. W..Woolworth
Co, 1,881. Ibid.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

it is sapping the resources, the vigor and the hope of the
smaller cities and towns."'
The plaintiffs insist that no taxable difference exists
between the owner of multiple stores and the owner of
an individual store. A short answer to the contention has
already been given, so far as required for the decision of
this.case. It is that the license fee is not merely taxation.
The fee isthe compensation exacted for the privilege of
carrying on intrastate business in corporate form. As this
privilege is one which a State may withhold or grant, it
may charge such compensation as it pleases. Nothing in
the Federal Constitution requires that the compensation
demanded for the privilege should be reasonable. Moreover, since the authority to operate many stores, or to
operate in two or more counties, is certainly a broader
privilege than to operate only one store, or in only one
county, there is in this record no basis for a finding that
it is unreasonable to make the charge higher for the
greater privilege.
A more comprehensive answer should, however, be
given. The purpose of the Florida statute is not, like
ordinary taxation, merely to raise revenue. Its main purpose is social and economic. The chain store is treated
as a thing menacing the public welfare. The aim of the
statute, at the lowest, is to preserve the competition of the
Montaville Flowers, America Chained (1931); H. E.
4'Compare
Fryberger, The Abolition of Poverty (1931); W. H. Cameron, Our
Juggernaut (1932); M. M. Zimmerman, The Challenge of Chain Store
Distribution (1931), pp. 2-4; Godfrey M. Lebhar, The Chain Store--

Boon or Bane? (1932), p.. 59; James L. Palmer, Are These Twelve
Charges Against the Chains True? in Retail Ledger, July, 1929,
reprinted in E. C. Buehler, Debate Handbook on the Chain Store
Question (1930), p. 102; Edward G. Ernst and Emil M. Hartd, The
Chain Store and the Community, in Nation, November 19, 1930, p.
545; John P. Nichols, Chain Store Manual (1932), c. 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

independent stores with the chain stores; at the highest,
its aim is to eliminate altogether the corporate chain
stores from retail distribution. The legislation reminds
of that by which Florida and other States, in order to
eliminate the "premium system" in merchandising, exacted high license fees of merchants who 6ffered trading
stamps with their goods. Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis
Co., 240 U. S. 342; Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369. Compare Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157;
Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 304.
The plaintiffs discuss the broad question whether the
power to tax may be used for the purpose of curbing, or of
exterminating, the chain stores by whomsoever owned.
It is settled that a State "may carry out a policy" by
"adjusting its revenue laws and taxing system in such a
way as to favor certain industries or forms of industry."
Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62; Citizens
Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 329.62 And since
'the Fourteenth Amendment "was not intended to compel
the State to adopt an iron rule of equal taxation," Bell's
Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237, it may
exempt from taxation kinds of business which it wishes to
promote; American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana,179
U. S. 89; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114;
and may burden more heavily kinds of business which it
wishes to discourage. Williams v. Fear's, 179 U. S. 271;
Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226; BrownForman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563; compare Alaska
Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44. To do that has been the
practice also of the Federal Government. It protects, by
customs duties, our manufacturers and producers from
the competition of foreigners. Compare Hampton & Co.
Indeed, it has been urged that the taxation of the StAtes -and the
Nation should be framed not with a view solely to the raising of
revenue, but always for the purpose of promoting that social policy
which the people deem wise.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

571

BRANDEIS, J. dissenting.

v. United States, 276 U. S.'394, 411-413; also, Billings v.
United States, 232 U. S. 261. It protects, by the oleomargarine laws, our farmers and dairymen from the competition of other Americans. Compare McCray v. United
States, 195 U. S. 27. It eliminated, by a prohibitive tax,
the issue of state bank notes in competition with those of
national banks. Compare Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533. Such is the constitutional power of Congress and of
the state legislatures. The wisdom of its exercise is not
the concern of this Court.
Whether chain stores owned by individuals may be subjected to the discrimination here challenged need not, however, be decided. This case requires decision only of the
narrower question-whether the State may freely apply
discrimination in license fees against corporate chain
stores. The essential difference between corporations and
natural persons has been recognized by the Federal Government in taxing the income of businesses when conducted by corporations, while exempting a similar business when carried on by an individual or partnership.
Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S.107, 158. It has, at
other times, imposed upon businesses conducted by corporations heavier taxes than upon those conducted by individuals."3 The equality clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment presents no obstacle to a State, likewise, taxing businesses engaged in intrastate commerce differently
according to the instruments by which they are carried
on; provided the purpose of the discrimination is a permissible one, the discrimination employed a means appropriate to achieving the end sought, and the difference
in the instruments so employed vital. Compare Fort
Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532. Quong
Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S.59; Amoskeag Savings Bank
v. Purdy, 231 U. S.373; Singer Sewing Machine Co. v.
a See the statutes cited in Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,
277 U. S. 389, 407-409, notes 5 and 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

Brickell, 233 U. S. 304. The corporate mechanism is obviously a vital element in the conduct of business. The
encouragement or discouragement of competition is an
end for which the power of taxation may be exerted. And
discrimination in the rate of taxation is an effective means
to that end.
The requirement of the equality clause that classification "must rest upon some ground of difference having a
fair and substantial relation to the object of the legislation," Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S.
32, 37, is here satisfied. Mere difference in degree has
been widely applied as a difference justifying different
taxation or regulation.6 ' The difference in power between
corporations and natural persons is ample basis for placing them in different classes. Even as between natural
persons, where the equality clause applies rigidly, differences in size furnish an adequate basis for discrimination
in a tax rate. The size of estates, or of bequests, is the
difference on which rest all the progressive inheritance
taxes of the States and of the Nation. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293; Knowlton
v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 109; Keeney v. New York, 222
U. S. 525, 536; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525; Salomon v. State Tax Commission, 278 U. S. 484. Differences in the size of incomes is the basis on which rest all
progressive income taxes. Brushaber v. Union Pacific
R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 25. Differences in the size of businesses present, likewise, an adequate basis for different
rates of taxation. Compare Citizens Telephone Co. v.
Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 331; Pacific American Fisheries Co.
v. Alaska, 269 U. S. 269. And so do differences in the
extent or-field of operation.
The State might justify progressively higher license
fees for corporations of larger size, or a more extended
"See Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 42-46,
notes 1-6.

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

field of operation, on the oft-asserted ground that such
concerns are more efficient than smaller units and, hence,
that they can, and should, contribute more to the public
revenues. But the State need not rest the difference in
tax rates on a ground so debatable .as the assertion that
efficiency increases with size.65 The Federal Constitution
does not require that taxes (as distinguished from assessments for betterments) be proportionate to the differences
in benefits received by the taxpayers, compare Illinois

Central R. Co. v. Decatur, 147 U. S. 190, 197; Union
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 203; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63, 76; St. Louis &

Southwestern Ry. v. Nattin, 277 U. S. 157, 159; or that
taxes be proportionate to the taxpayer's ability to bear

the burden.
"Compare Hearings .before Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, pursuant to S. Res. 98, Sen. Doc. 62d Cong., 2d Sess., Vol.
1, p. 1147 et seq. (1912); Report of Federal Trade Commission on
The Meat Packing Industry (1919), Pt. III, p. 118 et seq.; A. M.
Kales, Contracts and Combinations in Restraint of Trade (1918),
§§ 74-90; F. A. Fetter, Big Business and the Nation, in' Facing the
Facts (J. G. Smith, ed., 1932), pp. 186-213; F. A. Fetter, The Masquerade of Monopoly (1931), pp. 367-380; Myron W. Watkins,
Large-Scale Production, in Encyclopaedia of The Social Sciences, vol.
9, p. 170; A. S. Dewing, A Statistical Test of the Success of Consolidations, Quarterly Journal of Economics, vol. 36, p. 84; Virgil
Jordan, The Flight from the Centre, in Scribner's, Vol. 91, p. 262
(May, 1932); W. L. Thorp, The Changing Structure of Industry, in
Recent Economic Changes (1929), pp. 167, 179-206; Glenn Frank,
Big Men and Big Enterprise, Albany Evening News, December 7,
1931; December 18, 1931; Glenn Frank, Thunder and Dawn (1932),
pp. 106-110; Julius Klein, Ass-stant Secretary of Commerce, United
States Daily, April 11, 1932, p. 1; Frederick M.'Feiker, Director,
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, U. S. Daily, February
27, 1932, p. 3; Carter D. Poland, Small Business Has Its Day,
Nation's Business, March, 1933, p. 51; also, Camera dei Deputati, N.
1209-A, Relazione della Giunta Generale del Bilancio (April 29,
1932), pp. 45-47.

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

Since business must yield to the paramount interests of
the community in times of peace as *ell as in times of,
war, a State may prohibit a business found to be noxious
and, likewise, may prohibit incidents or excrescences of a
business otherwise beneficent. Mugler v. Kansas, 123
U. S. 623; Ozan Lumber Co. v. Union County Bank, 207
U. S. 251; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79; Engel v.
O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128; Central Lumber Co. v. South
Dakota, 226 U. S. 157. Businesses may become as harmful to the community by excessive size, as by monopoly or
the commonly recognized restraints of trade. If the State
should conclude that bigness in retail merchandising as
manifested in corporate chain stores menaces the public
welfare, it might prohibit the excessive size or extent of
that business as it prohibits excessive size or weight in
motor trucks or excessive height in the buildings of a city.
Compare Morris v. Duby, 274 U. S. 135; Welch v. Swasey,
214 U. S. 91; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365,
388. It was said in United States v. U. S. Steel Corp., 251
U. S. 417, 451, that the Sherman Anti-Trust Act did not
forbid large aggregations; but the power of Congress to
prohibit corporations of a size deemed excessive from
engaging in interstate commerce was not questioned.
The elimination of chain stores, deemed harmful or
menacing because of their bigness, may be achieved by
levelling the prohibition against the corporate mechanism-the instrument by means of which excessive size is
commonly made possible. Or, instead of absolutely prohibiting the corporate chain store, the State might conclude that it should first try.the ipdre temperate remedy
of curbing the chain by imposing the handicap of discriminatory license fees. Compare St. Louis Poster Advertising Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U. S. 269, 274; Hammond
Packing Co. v. Montana, 233 U. S. 331, 333-334; Bradley
v. Richmond, 227 U. S. 477, 480. "Taxation is regulation just as prohibition is." Compahia General de Ta-

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

bacos v. Collector, 275 U. S. 87, 96.

And the State's

power to make social and economic experiments is a
broad one.
Fifth. The mere fact that the taxpayer is a corporation does not, of course, exclude it from the protection
afforded by the equality clause. Corporations and individuals, aliens and citizens, are for most purposes in the
same class. Ordinarily, they have the same civil rights;
are entitled to the same remedies; are subject to the same
police regulations; and are also subject .to the same tax
laws. Where such is the case, the corporation taxpayer is
entitled, like the individual, to the protection of the
equality clause against discrimination, however effected.
Compare Iowa-Des Moines National Bank v. Bennett, 284
U. S. 239. But the chief aim of the-Florida statute is apparently to handicap corporate chain stores-that is, to
place them at a disadvantage, to make their success less
probable. No other justification of the discrimination in
license fees need be shown; since the very purpose of the
legislation is to create inequality and thereby to discourage the establishment, or the maintenance, of corporate
chain stores; since that purpose is one for which the
power of taxation may be exerted; since higher license
fees is an appropriate means of discouragement; and corporations have not the inherent right to engage in intrastate commerce. The clear distinction between the
equality clause and the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment should not be overlooked in this connection. The mandate of the due process clause is absolute. That clause is of universal application. It knows
not classes. It applies alike to corporations and to individuals, to citizens and to aliens, Home Insurance Co. v.
Dick, 281 U. S. 397, 411; Russian Volunteer Fleet v.
United States, 282 U. S. 481, 489. The equality clause,
on the other hand, is limited in its operation to members
of a class.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

It is true that the Florida Anti-Chain Store Law, like
others, is not drawn so as to apply only tq giant corporate chains. In terms, it applies to the small corporations as well as to the large; and also to natural persons.
But the history of such legislation indicates that these
laws were aimed at the huge, publicly-financed corporations; and that the statutes were couched in comprehensive terms in the hope Qf thereby avoiding constitutional doubts raised by judicial statements that the
equality clause applies alike to natural persons and corporations. It was said in Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389, 402, that the equality clause
precludes making the character of the owner the sole fact
on which a discrimination in taxation shall depend. And
in Frost v. Corporation Commission, 278 U. S. 515, 522,
it was said (citing the Quaker City Cab case; Kentucky
Finance Corp. v. Paramount Exchange, 262 U. S. 544,
550; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150, 154) "that a corporation is as much entitled to the
equal protection of the laws as an individual." These
statements require, in my opinion, this qualification.
Whenever the discrimination is for a permitted purposeas when a State, having concluded that activity by corporations should be curbed, seeks to favor businesses
conducted by individuals-the corporate character of the
owner presents a difference in ownership which may be
made the sole basis of classification in taxation, as in
regulation."6 The discrimination cannot, in such a case,
Compare Ernst Freund, Standards of Awerican Legislation(1917), pp. 40-41: "So far as the businesses of banking and insurance
have been carried on under corporate charters they have been the
subject of thorough andt detailed regulation, while private banking
and the unincorporated forms of fraternal insurance remain to this
day in the main unregulated and uncontrolled. Railroads have been
built and operated from the beginning .by corporate enterprise; thus
legislation was called for and was made the indrument of exercising

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

be held arbitrary, since it is made in order to effect the
permitted hostile purpose and is appropriate to that end.
Compare Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, 286 U. S.
276, 283-285; New York ex rel. N. Y. & Albany Lighterage
Co. v. Lynch, post, p. 590.
Sixth. The plaintiffs contend, for a further reason, that
there is no taxable difference justifying the discrimination
in license fees. They assert that the struggle between
them and the independently owned stores is, in fact, not
an unequal one; and in support of this assertion, they call
attention to those paragraphs in the bill which describe
the co6perative chains of individual stores and their rapid
growth. These paragraphs allege that by " affiliations
and co~perative organizations single grocery [and other]
store owners have adopted the best features of chain store
merchandising and have secured substantially all the
benefits derived therefrom, while at the same time they
have avoided burdens of capital investment, insurance,
etc., incident to the carrying of a large stock in a central
warehouse." The bill sets forth how this has been
achieved, describing in detail the recent advances in
efficiency of such coperative merchandising. It alleges,
moreover, that the members of a coperative chain have
the superior advantage of the good will and personal
interest of the individual, owners, as compared with the
hired managers of the regular chains; and that all these
facts were known to the Legislature when it enacted the
statute here challenged.
public power over operation, service and in some cases over rates;
the express busineqs, on the other hand, which happened to be carried
on chiefly by uniicbrporated concerns, or at least did not seek special
charters, practically escaped regulation and was not placed under
administrative jurisdiction until the Rate Act of 1906; this tends to
show that it was not merely the fact of being a common carrier subject
to special power, but more particularly the fact of being a corporation asking for powers, which subjected the railroad company to the
extensive and intensive legislative r~gime which it has experienced."

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BRANDnIS,

J., dissenting.

288 US.

These allegations are admitted by the motion to dismiss; and they are supported by recent experience of
which we may take notice." But it does not follow that
because the independently owned stores are overcoming
through co-peration the advantages once possessed by
chain stores, there is no taxable difference between the
corporate chain and the single store. The State's power
to apply discriminatory taxation as a means of prevent-

ing domination of intrastate commerce by capitalistic
corporations is not conditioned upon the existence of economic need. It flows from the broader right of Americans
to preserve, and to establish from time to time, such insti-

tutions, social and economic, as seem to them desirable;
and, likewise, to end those which they deem undesirable.
"Federal Trade Commission, Report on Co6perative Grocery
Chains, Sen..Doc. No. 12, 72nd Cong., 1st Sess.; Report on Coiperative Drug and Hardware Chains, Sen. Doc. No. 82, 72nd Cong., 1st
Sess. See, also, A. E. Haase and V. H. Pelz, The Voluntary Chain, in
Printer's Ink Monthly, February 1929, p. 29, id., March 1929, p. 31,
id., April 1929, p. 52, id., May 1929, p. 52; Paul H. Nystrom, Chain
Stores (U. S. Chamber of Commerce, 1930), pp. 17, 21; Nystrom,
Economics of Retailing (3rd ed., 1932), c. 13; Craig Davidson, Voluntary Chain Stores (1930); Marvin M. Black, Jr., Troubled Waters
of Distribution, Outlook and Independent, May 15, 1929, p. 90; The
Voluntary Chains (American Institute of Food Distribution, Inc.,
1930); M. E. Br'dston, Voluntary Chain Flourishes in Difficult Field,
in Chain Store Review, April 1929, p. 12; " The Challenge of the
Chains" Accepted by 500 Pacific Coast Grocers, Magazine of Business, July, 1928, p. 28. Compare Federal Trade Commission, Report
on Coiperation in Foreign Countries, Sen. Doc. No. 171, 68th Cong.,
2d Sess.; Huston Thompson, The Coiperative Movement in Foreign
Countries, Congressional Digest, October 1925, p. 256; C. R. Fay,
Co-operation at Home and Abroad (rev. ed. 1925); A. H. Enfield,
Co-operation (1927); J. P. Warbasse, Co-operative Democracy
(1923); Cedric Long, Consumers Co-operation, in A New Economic
Order (Kirby Page, ed., 1930), p. 213; Charles R. Tuttle, The New
Co-operative Order (1918); Charles T. Sprading, Mutual Service and
Co-operation (1930), pp. 44-127; Henry Clay, Co-operation and
Private Enterprise (1928).

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

BRANDEIS,

579

J., dissenting.

The State might, if conditions warranted, subject giant
corporations to a control similar to that now exerted over
public utility companies." Or, the citizens of Florida
might conceivably escape from the domination of giant
corporations by having the State engage in business.
Compare Jones v. Portland, 245 U. S. 217; Green v.
Frazier, 253 U. S. 233; Standard Oil Co. v. Lincoln, 275
U. S. 504. But Americans seeking escape from corporate
domination have open to them under the Constitution
another form of social and economic control-one more
in keeping with our traditions and aspirations. They may
prefer the way of co6peration, which leads directly to the
freedom and the equality of opportunity which the Fourteenth Amendment aims to secure." That way is clearly
open. For the fundamental difference between capitalistic enterprise and the co6perative--between economic
absolutism and industrial democracy-is one which has
been commonly accepted by legislatures and the courts
as justifying discrimination in both regulation and taxation.
Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Burley Tobacco
Growers Assn., 276 U. S. 71. Compare Citizens Tele,phone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322.
"The general apprehension of corporations with huge capital was
not allayed until after the introduction of two governmental devices
designed to protect the rights and opportunities of the individual.
Commissions to regulate public utilities-to curb the exaction of
sanctioned monopolies. Anti-trust laws--to prevent monopolies in industry and commerce. When the Act to Regulate Commerce was
passed in 1887, there were commissions in 25 States. Vanderblue and
Burgess, Railroads (1923), p. 15. See M. H. Hunter, The Early
Regulation of Public Service Corporations, 7 American Economic Review, p. 569, reprinted in Dorau, Materials for the Study of Public
Utility Economics (1930), pp. 283-294.
* Compare Harold J. Laski, The Recovery of Citizenship (1928);
Horace M. Kallen, Individualism (1933), pp. 235-241.
"See Frost v. Corporation Commission, 278 U. S. 515, 539, notes
8-16, 23.

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARmozo, J.. dissenting.

288 U.S.

There is a widespread belief that the existing unemployment is the result, in large part, of the gross inequality in the distribution of wealth and income which giant
corporations have fostered; that by the control which the
few have exerted through giant corporations, individual
initiative and effort are being paralyzed, creative power
impaired and human happiness lessened; that the true
prosperity of our past came not from big business, but
through the courage, the energy and the resourcefulness
of small men; that only by releasing from corporate control the faculties of the unknown many, only by reopening to them the opportunities for leadership, can confidence in our future be restored and the existing misery
be overcome; and that only through participation by the
many in the responsibilities and determinations of business, can Americans secure the moral and intellectual
development which is essential to the maintenance of
liberty. If the citizens of Florida share that belief, I
know of nothing in the Federal Constitution which precludes the State from endeavoring to give it effect and
prevent domination in intrastate commerce by subjecting
corporate chains to discriminatory license fees. To that
extent, the citizens of each State are still masters of
their destiny.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARwOZO, dissenting in part.

The graduation of a tax upon the business of a chain
store may be regulated by the test of territorial expansion,
and territorial expansion may be determined by the spread
of business from one county into another.
Students of the chains have accepted the classification
of the Census Bureau, which divides them into three
groups: local, sectional and national. Census of 1930, Report on Retail Distribution by Chains; Lebhar, "The
Chain Store," p. 20. Chains are local "if substantially
all their stores are located in and around some one city."

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

CARDoZO, J., dissenting.

In 1930, the number of these was 5589. They are sectional if their "stores are located in some one section of
the country, such as the New England states or the Pacific
Coast states or in the Gulf Southwest or any other geographic division."
Of these there. were 1136. They are
national if their "interests are broader than .those of any
one section of the country." Of these there were 321.
Statistics-thus indicate that there is a definite line of
cleavage between chains that serve consumers within a
single, territorial unit and those framed for larger ends.
The business that keeps at home affects the social organism in ways that differ widely from those typical of a
business that goes out into the world. It affects the social
organism, but also it affects itself. With the lengthening
of. the chain there are new fields to be exploited. The
door is opened to opportunities that have hitherto been
closed. Where does the local have an end and the nonlocal a beginning? The legislature had to draw the linesomewhere, and it drew it with the county. Within the
range of reasonable discretion its judgment must prevail.
There is need to remember the varying significance of
county lines for varying communities. From the begin-.
nings of our history, the town has been the distinctive
unit of government in the New England states and in
many others of the North. In the South from the beginning the distinctive unit has been the county. Bryce,
The American Commonwealth, (2nd edition, revised)
vol. 1, part II, chap. 48, pp. 570, 571; K. H. Porter; County
and Township Government in the United States, p. 60.
Florida is largely an agricultural state. The census of
1930 shows three cities of over 100,000 (Jacksonville,
129,549, Miami, 110,637, and Tampa, 101,161); four between 20,000 and 40,000 (Orlando, West Palm Beach,
Pensacola, and St. Petersburg); and seven between 10,000
and 20,000. Of these fourteen cities, all are in different
counties. In a state with a population thus distributed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARDozo,

J., dissenting.

288 US.

the boundaries of the county will have an approximate
correspondence with the area of local business. When a
chain goes beyond the county, beyond the traditional
boundaries of local government, it puts the locality behind
it, and elects to play for larger stakes.
Every- new community is potentially a new centre of
economic opportunity. There is then a hazard of new adventures, a tapping of new sources of dominance and
profit. At otice "With this advance, the tax mounts into
higher brackets, but does not mount again. There are
not progressive increases when a business, after moving
into one county, moves .on again to others. The second
county once attained, the rate is not affected though many
more are added. The chain has made its choice, and for
this it pays but once. It has put its local character away,
and found alignment in another class. It is on the way
to becoming an organization of another order, to becoming sectional or national. There is confirmation of this
tendency in the facts stated in the bill as to the stores
operated by the complainants and by those allowed to
intervene. All who have gone beyond a single county do
business in many more, or else in many states. One can
imagine extreme cases, to be sure, where county lines
may be crossed and the business remain local in substance, if not in form. The store in the new county may
be next to the boundary line that separates from the old.
So too the chain that is national in scope may have its
Florida stores in one county and one only, in which event
it is local quoad its activities in Florida, whatever it may
be beyond. Lawmakers are not required to legislate with
an eye to exceptional conditions. Their search is for probabilities and tendencies of general validity, and these being
ascertained, they may frame their rule accordingly. They
are -not required to legislate with an eye to forms of
growth beyond the limits of their own state. In laying
a tax upon a Florida chain their concern is with those

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

CARDOZO,

583

J., dissenting.

activities that have social Lnd economic consequences for
Florida and her people. The question for them, and so
for us, is not how a business might be expected to develop
if its forms and lines of growth were to be predicted in the
abstract without reference to experience. The question is
how it does develop in normal or average conditions, and
the answer to that question is t6 be found in life and
history. When the problem is thus approached, the movement from one county to another becomes in a very definite sense the crossing of a frontier, a change as marked
as the difference between wholesale trade and retail.
Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261. So at least the
legislature might not unreasonably believe, and act on
that belief in the formulation of the law. O'Gorman &
Young v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 282 U. S. 251, 257.
Corresponding to the change of opportunity-to the
change at the periphery-that accompanies the expansion of the area of action are changes at the centre. The
chain that is merely local is likely to be organized more
simply than the one that spreads itself afar. Methods
at the point of origin must be adapted to expanding needs.
Other things being equal, there will be a new concentration of control, a new unity of administration, a new
emphasis of the very features that distinguish chain stores
from others and supply an important reason for taxing
the two differently, whether within the county or without. Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527, 534.
Movement from the locality to other fields of activity
is thus a symptom of hn inner change. This,'at least, is its
normal meaning, its meaning,.or so'the legislature might
fairly say, in the common run of cases. If so, the scale
of payment may be graduated in correspondence with the
changing facts.
There is a distinction not to be ignored between the
facts that determine subjection to a tax and those that
measure its amount. "Classification good for one pur-

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CAROZO, J.; dissenting.

288 U.S.

pose may be bad for another." Louisville Gas Co. v.
Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 38. The case cited drew a distinction between graduation of the burden and unconditional exemption. The business conducted by these appellants is not subjected to a tax because it is in several
counties. It is taxed because it is the business of operating chain stores, and its spread over counties is only one
circumstance, along with others, to be considered by the
Collector in determining how much it has to pay. The
factor may be inconclusive if our search is for mathematical exactness. This is far from saying that' it is to be
rejected as irrelevant. None of the factors measuring
this tax will answer to a test of certainty. Even where
the business is kept within a single county, there is no
certainty that a chain of thirty stores will so differ from
one of fifty either in its method of organization or in the
proportionate returns that the first should pay a tax at
one rate for every store, and the second at another. The
like is true where organization is affected by territorial
expansion. There is a relation surpassing mere irrelevance
between the essential character of the business and its
territorial spread beyond the unit of its origin. Even
if this is doubtful a priori, it is made apparent or probable by statistics and experience. A court will go no
farther.
What has been written has discovered differences
between local chains and others, differences in organization at the centre and in opportunity at the outer rim.
The differences need not be great. Tax Commissioners v.
Jackson, supra, at p. 538. This is true even of the classes
that may be described as primary, those accompanied by
a division between a tax and no tax. It is true even more
plainly of subclasses, the secondary divisions corresponding to graduations of the cale. How slight may be the
variance that will mark a permissible classification
between a tax and none at all has illustration in the case
at hand. The prevailing opinion upholds the power of
the state to discriminate between integrated and volun-

LIGGETT CO. v. LEE.
517

CAiwozo, J., dissenting.

tary chains, though the , difference of organization is
slender and the inequality of economic benefit uncertain
and disputed. Slender though the difference of organization is, it is real enough to rescue classification from the
reproach of an arbitrary preference. It will not do to
shut one's eyes to the motive that has led so many legislatures to lay hold of this difference and turn it into a basis
for a new system of taxation. The system has had its
origin in the belief that the social utility or inutility of
one group is less or greater than that of others, and-that
the choice of subjects to be taxed should be adjusted to
social gains and losses. Courts would be lacking in candor
if they were not to concede the presence of such a motive
behind this chain store legislation. But a purpose to bear
more heavily on one class than another will not avail
without more to condemn a tax as void. American Sugar
Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 95; Southwestern
Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 126; Sproles v. Binford,
286 U. S. 374, 394; Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251.
We must know why the discrimination is desired, to what
end it is directed and the relation between end and means.
If the motive is vindictiveness, ensuing in mere oppression, the result may be one thing. If the motive and the
end attained are the advancement of the public good, the
result may be quite another, unless preference and repression go so far as to outrun the bounds of reason. The
legislature has determined with the, approval of the court
that an integrated chain is a taxable class separable from
independent dealers and even from chains that are merely
coiperative leagues. If these differences suffice to establish a basis for distinction between a tax and none at all,
smaller differences may suffice for the graduation of the
scale. The legislature has found them in those variations
of degree that separate a chain within the territorial unit
of the locality from chains that are reaching out for wider
fields of power. There is no need to approve or disapprove the concept of utility or inutility reflected in such
laws. State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CAR ozo, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

supra, at p. 537. The concept may be right or wrong.
At least it corresponds to an intelligible belief, and Qne
widely prevalent today among honest men and women.
Cf. Otis v. Parker,187 U. S. 606. With that our function
ends.
Systems of taxation are not framed, nor is it possible to
frame them, with perfect distribution of benefit and burden. Their authors must be satisfied with a rough and
ready form of justice. This is true in special measure
while the workings of a novel method are untested by a
rich experience. There must be advance by trial and
efror. Taxes upon chain stores are not exempt from these
infirmities. To what extent there is a change of form
and spirit when a business ceases to be local is not a question of law. O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Ins.
Co., supra. In essence it is one of fact. There is a presumption that the legislature did not classify along the
lines of counties without study of the relevant data or
without an informed and considered judgment. Its findings are not subject to annulment by a court unless facts
within the range of judicial notice point to them as
wrong. In discarding as arbitrary symbols the lines that
it has chosen, there is danger o? forgetting that in social
and economic life the grooves of thought and action are
not always those of logic, and that symbols may mean as
much as conduct has put into them.
Holding these views, I find it unnecessary to consider
whether the statute may be upheld for the additional
reasons that have been stated by MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
with such a wealth of learning. They present considerations that were not laid before us by counsel either in the
briefs or in the oral argument, and a determination of
their validity and weight may be reserved with propriety
until the'necessity emerges.
My vote is for affirmance.

I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in this opinion.

