OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

494, 497; Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U.S. 93, 112;
Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226, 229) nor
an unlawful interference with the prosecution of a suit
in a state court (compare Riehle v. Margolies, 279 U. S.
218, 223).
The judgment must be
Reversed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. NORTHERN PACIFIC

RAILWAY CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 470.

Argued February 9, 10, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. The rule announced in Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 284 U. S. 248, does not mean that a rehearing on an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing rates may be required whenever a carrier's revenues are adversely affected by
change of economic conditions, nor will it be so applied as to
disable the Commission to protect the interests of the public.
P. 492.
2. A carrier is estopped to complain of the refusal of the Commission
to grant a rehearing because of changed economic conditions, where
the evidence of such change and of its effect on the carrier's reve-'
nues could readily have been produced before the Commission long
before it made the order complained of. P. 494.
3. In the absence of the evidence taken before the Commission, the
Court can not say that there was no adequate and sufficient proof
on which to base a finding of the reasonableness of the rates prescribed in this case. P. 499.
4. Existing rates for similar service to other destinations may be used
by the Commission as one test, though not controlling, of the reasonableness of the rates in issue. P. 500.
5. In this case, the Commission's reports of its investigations of the
rates immediately in question and of other related rates, do
not sustain the averments of the petition that the question of reasonableness was disregarded and the order based solely upon a
comparison with rates which were unduly and unreasonably low.
P. 500.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY.
490

Opinion of the Court.

6. Carriers desiring a reopening by the Commission of a particular
rate case for the purpose of showing that the rates fixed therein
and which were used as a basis of comparison in fixing other rates,

were too low, should specify their purpose and the case, and not
address their petition to the reopening of a whole group of related
cases. P.. 501.
7. Refusal of the Commission to consolidate one rate proceeding with
another held not to have been a denial of a fair hearing on the
question of the relationship between scales of rates involved, that
question having been raised and considered in both of the cases
separately. P. 501.
60 F. (2d) 302, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, which set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission establishing certain rates on petroleum.
Mr. Edward M. Reidy, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Messrs. Daniel W. Knowlton and Elmer B.
Collins were on the brief, for the United States and the
Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants.
Mr. Karl Knox Gartner, with whom Mr. Elwin E.
Hadlick was on the brief, for the Northwestern Petroleum Association et al., appellants.
Mr. M. L. Countryman, Jr., with whom Messrs. D. F.
Lyons, F. G. Dorety, P. F. Gault, A. H. Lossow, R. J.
Hagman, and J. P. Plunkett were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUsTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This appeal brings here for review a decree of a district
court of three judges, 60 F. (2d) 302, setting aside and
enjoining the enforcement of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission establishing rates on petroleum
from the midcontinent field to destinations in western
Minnesota and North Dakota.

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 Us.

The appellees' petition charged that the Commission
exceeded its powers, denied a fair hearing, and abused its
discretion in refusing to reopen the case and to receive
proof of changes in economic conditions arising after the
closing of the evidence. The District Court held against
the appellees as respects the first two charges, but found
that the third was sustained and therefore set aside the
order. This the appellants say was error. The appellees,
however, assert that the allegations and proofs as to
changed conditions support the decree; and urge, in the
alternative, that if this position be untenable, the action
of the court was required for the other reasons recited in
the petition.
The complaint, filed July 15, 1925, alleged the existing
rates were unreasonable. A hearing was held in October,
1925, and a report and order entered March 5, 1928, fixing
rates effective June 14, 1928. A rehearing was granted
June 10, 1929, the case was reheard, and the record closed
on January 15, 1930. A petition of the carriers that the
case be reopened and consolidated with certain others was
denied April 14, 1930. The final report and order were
entered December 1, 1931, prescribing rates to become
effective March 15, 1932. On February 3, 1932, the
appellees presented a petition praying that the Commission vacate the order or postpone its effective date, grant
a rehearing, and reopen the case for the admission of
further evidence to show a change in economic conditions
since the record had been closed. This was dismissed, and
the present suit was then instituted.
The appellees urge that the decision in Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S. 248,
requires us to hold that the Commission's refusal to reopen the proceeding was an. abuse of discretion. That
case, however, exhibited a substantially different state of
facts. There the Commission conducted an investigation,
pursuant to the Hoch-Smith Resolution, touching the

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY.
490

Opinion of the Court.

entire structure of rates on export grain from the territory west of the Mississippi River and from Illinois. Here

the inquiry embraced rates from origin points to a relatively small destination area. The diminution of carrier
revenue consequent upon the new rates, while substantial,
is far less than that effected by the order in the Santa Fe
proceeding. In that case the record was closed in September, 1928, the matter submitted on argument July 1,
1929, and a report and order entered July 1, 1930, establishing rates to be charged on and after October 1, 1930.
The effective date was postponed from time to time on
account of the difficulty of adjusting the tariffs in accordance with the order. In September, 1930, the carriers requested a rehearing. Prior to action thereon the railroads brought to the Commission's attention their
changed financial condition due to the economic depression. In Novembet, 1930, a rehearing was denied. On
February 18, 1931, a second petition for rehearing was
presented, which was in effect a bill of review. It averred
that due to the nation-wide depression which had its inception in November, 1929, the facts exhibited by the record as closed in September, 1928, were utterly unrepresentative of conditions existing at the effective date of
the order some two and one-half years later.
In the proceedings under review the record was closed
January 15, 1930. The economic depression, then begun,
grew in intensity throughout that and the following year.
During the pendency of the case appellees filed several
petitions for rehearing, that of May 4, 1928 reciting that
the carriers were unable under existing rates to earn the
fair return contemplated by § 15a of the Act. Between
January 15, 1930 and February 3, 1932 no application
based on changed economic conditions was made to the
Commission, and that body was allowed to consider the
record and prepare a report without notice of any claim
in that behalf.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The Commission is not bound to allow existing unreasonable rates to stand solely because revision will in some
degree adversely affect carriers suffering from economic
depression. The decision in the Santa Fe case is not to
be extended to require a'rehearing in every rate case for
changed economic conditions, however insignificant the
effect of the order on carrier revenue. The rule
announced, while intended to safeguard substantial rights
of the railroads, may not be invoked where its application
would disenable the Commission to protect the interest of
the public.
Though the order substantially reduced the carriers'
revenues, we do not consider the merits of the application
for rehearing, as we think the carriers' lack of diligence in
bringing this matter to the Commission's attention
deprived them of any equity to complain of the refusal
of their petition. They sat silent andc took the chance of
a favorable decision on the record as made. They should
not be permitted to reopen the case for the introduction
of evidence long available and susceptible of production
months before the Commission acted. The denial of a
rehearing, in view of this delay, was not such an abuse
of discretion as would warrant setting aside the order.
This conclusion requires the reversal of the decree,
unless, as the appellees contend, it may be sustained upon
the other grounds presented to the District Court. We
turn then to these aspects of the controversy.
The complaint attacked the existing rates as unreasonable, and did not charge undue preference or prejudice;
but, it is said, the Commission based its order solely upon
prejudice due to the relation of these rates with others in
force in adjacent territory. The argument is that the
relief granted was different from that invoked and so
beyond the Commission's power. The appellees also
claim that when they discovered that the Commission

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY.
490

Opinion of the Court.

was proceeding upon the basis of relationship, rather .than
reasonableness, they vainly sought an opportunity to
show that the rates used as comparatives were unreasonably low, and therefore of no probative value. The Commission's dismissal of certain petitions for further hearing
upon consolidated records, presently to be described, is
represented as a denial of a fair hearing, in that the carriers were prevented from showing the impropriety of the
comparisons used. The examination of these contentions
requires a detailed statement with respect to this and
other proceedings before the Commission.
Prior to the filing of the complaint in this case (No.
17304) the Commission was engaged in an investigation
(No. 15584) of rates on petroleum. from midcontinent territory to western trunk line destinations and Indiana, Illinois, and northern Michigan. Midcontinent origins had
been grouped for rate making purposes, and the principal
contention in No. 15584 was that the rates from the different blanket origins were not properly related. In that
proceeding, however, intervenors residing in North and
South Dakota alleged that the rates from the midcontinent field as a whole to destinations in those states were
unreasonably high and prejudicial when compared with
the tariffs in force to other territory. Certain related
complaints were consolidated wth No. 15584 and all were
heard on a single record. While the investigation was
under way the complaint in the present case, No. 17304,
was filed by North Dakota and western Minnesota complainants, and was heard on a separate record. There
had also been filed a complaint known as No. 16309, by
South Dakota ' consignees, attacking the rates to that territory as unreasonable and also as unduly prejudicial in
their relation to rates to Iowa and southern Minnesota.
In May, 1926, a report was filed in No. 15584 (112 I. C. C.
421) Teadjusting the rates from various origin blankets in

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

the midcontinent field to western trunk line destinations
and declaring the new rates to be just, reasonable and
non-preferential. Referring to the interventions of consignees in North and South Dakota and to case No. 16309,
affecting South Dakota, the Commission stated that the
record was not adequate for a finding with respect to the
rates to those destinations, and announced that No. 15584
would be held open for further consideratiorr in connection with No. 16309. It subsequently consolidated No.
16309 and the present case, No. 17304, with No. 15584,
and on March 5, 1928, filed a supplemental report establishing rates to the territory here in question, effective
June 14, 1928, adjudging them reasonable and properly
related to the rates to western trunk line territory theretofore prescribed (139 I. C. C. 605).
May 4, 1928 the appellees asked the Commission to
postpone the effective date of this order, and to vacate its
outstanding orders "in No. 15584 and associated cases,
in so far as said orders related to rates to Lincoln and
Omaha, Nebraska, Sioux City, Fort Dodge, and Mason
City, Iowa, Duluth and St. Paul, Minnesota, and Sioux
Falls, South Dakota, and to grant them a further hearing
upon a single record with respect to the level of the rates
from the midcontinent field to destinations in Nebraska,
Iowa, South Dakota, North Dakota, and Minnesota." It
will be observed the rehearing requested would -affect all
rates established in No. 15584 and related cases in the
original and supplemental reports. The petition was denied February 11, 1929.
The required schedules having been put into effect, the
carriers filed tariffs reducing the rates on petroleum from
origins in Wyoming to points in North Dakota, South
Dakota, and certain cities in Iowa, Nebraska and Montana-this upon the theory that these should be reduced
to bring them into proper relationship with the new
charges on petroleum from the midcontinent field. After

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY.
490

Opinion of the Court.

hearing the Commission suspended the rates so promulgated (153 I. C. C. 363).
In November, 1928, Dacotah Oil Company, et al. filed
a complaint, No. 21737, alleging that the rates fixed by
the order of March 5, 1928, to certain North Dakota
points, were unjust and unreasonable, and praying the establishment of just and reasonable rates for the future.
This was- heard in March, 1929, and the record then
closed. April 19, 1929, the complainants in this cause,
No. 17304, filed a petition alleging that the rates prescribed March 5, 1928, were unjustifiably high as compared with those to the Minnesota gateways adjoining
the destination territory in western Minnesota and North
Dakota. On June 10, 1929, the Commission reopened
the case. Three months later the Standard Oil Company
of Indiana, operating refineries at Casper, Wyoming, filed
its complaint alleging that rates on petroleum from Casper to North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa and Minnesota
were unreasonable and unduly prejudicial to the complainant, and unduly preferential of producers in the midcontinent field. This complaint was docketed as No.
22714. At about the same time the Public Service Commission of Wyoming filed a similar complaint (No.
22733) with respect to rates from Wyoming origins to the
same destinations. The Commission thereupon assigned
the present case, No. 17304, for further hearing on January 13, 1930. Just prior to that date the appellees petitioned the Commission asking that this complaint and
the two just mentioned, concerning rates from Wyoming,
should be consolidated for hearing and decision upon a
common record, alleging that if any change were made in
No. 17304 in the rates prescribed by the Commission
March 5, 1928, from the midcontinent field, such readjustment would directly and necessarily disturb the relationship between midcontinent and Wyoming rates, which
relationship was brought into issue by the complaints in
No. 22714 and 22733.

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

On January 14, 1930, the appellees filed with the Commission a petition in No. 15584 and associated cases, requesting that they be reopened for further hearing with
respect to rates therein prescribed from the midcontinent
field to the key or gateway points such as Lincoln and
Omaha, Nebraska; Des Moines, Fort Dodge, Sioux City,
and Mason City, Iowa; Sioux Falls, South Dakota; and
St. Paul and Duluth, Minnesota, and to the t rritory beyond such gateway points, and that the above-mentioned
cases be consolidated with the two complaints respecting
rates from Wyoming; this bn the ground that the whole
structure of rates ought not to be dealt with and adjusted
piecemeal, since to do so would inevitably result in unnecessary dissipation of carrier revenue and create inconsistencies and dissatisfaction; and that the only way in
which the complaints of discrimination, preference and
prejudice in the rate structure could be satisfied would
be by proceeding upon one record, with all interested
parties before it, to work out a harmonious, consistent
and otherwise lawful adjustment which would protect
rather than unnecessarily sacrifice the revenues of the
carriers. April 14, 1930, the petition was denied.
On December 1, 1931, the Commission made and filed
its report and order in this cause and No. 21737, whereby
the rates established by the order of March 5, 1928 were
revised (179 1. C. C. 435).
The petition in the District Court sets forth the matters above outlined and summarizes the action of the
Commission in the various proceedings. The answers of
the United States and the Commission admit the filing
of the several complaints and the making of the reports
and orders thereon; deny that the description of the
Commission's act'on set out in the petition is accurate
or complete; and refer to the reports and orders for a
correct statement of what the Commission did. At the

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY.
490

499

Opinion of the Court.

trial none of the records in any of the complaints was
put in evidence. The several petitions for rehearing and
for consolidation are recounted and summarized in the
petition, but are not set forth, nor included in the record.
In considering the questions presented we are thus confined to the Commission's reports supplemented by the
averments of the pleadings as to the substance of the
applications for reopening, consolidation and rehearing.
It should be noted that appellees were parties respondent in each of the proceedings above-mentioned. In
some the rates under attack in the present cause, No.
17304, were alleged to be unreasonable under § 1 of the
Act, and also unduly prejudicial within the intent of § 3,
and the carriers had full opportunity to be heard on both
issues. In No. 15584, the Midcontinent case, the Commission expressly held open the question of the rates to
North Dakota and western Minnesota for further consideration in connection with No. 16309, which charged
that existing rates to South Dakota were unreasonable and
unduly prejudicial as compared with the rates fixed in the
Midcontinent case to the gateways and to western trunk
line territory. In the supplemental report in the latter
the Commission dealt with the South Dakota rates and
those here involved. In the order of March 5, 1928, and in
the final order of December 1, 1931, the Commission found
that the rates prescribed were just and reasonable, and
were properly related to those established in No. 15584.
Note was taken of the fact that the rates to certain of
the gateways were unduly depressed, and it was said that
those established to South Dakota points, than which the
rates prescribed herein are higher, had for that reason
been raised above the depressed level of rates to the
gateways.
In the absence of the evidence before the Commission
we cannot say that there was no adequate and sufficient

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

proof on which to base a finding of the reasonableness of
the rates prescribed.* It is true that in both reports
touching the rates here in controversy the Commission
used as comparatives rates from the midcontinent field to
South Dakota points and those from Wyoming origins to
South Dakota and North Dakota destinations. But it
appears from the reports that the carriers themselves presented comparisons of these very rates in support of their
contentions. Thus both the appellees and the Commission recognized what has long been settled-that existing
rates for similar service to other destinations may be
used for comparison as one test, though not a controlling
one, upon the question of the reasonableness of the rates
in issue. The Commission's reports -do not sustain the
averments of the petition that the question of reasonableness was disregarded and the order based solely upon a
,comparison with rates which were unduly and unreasonably low.
But the appellees say that if the Commission intended
to give weight to the relationship of the rates established
in No. 16309, to South Dakota, it should, in fairness, have
permitted that case to be reopened and should have afforded opportunity for proof that the South Dakota rates
we-e fixed in relation to the western trunk line tariff,
which was unreasonably low due to competitive conditions. The record in the District Court fails to support
this argument. As above noted, the carriers had been
parties to the record in No. 16309, and confessedly the
principal reliance of the appellees is a statement by a dissenting Commissioner that "the adjustment here required is based
very largely upon our previous findings in the Midcontinent Cases,
which we have repeatedly stated required rates below reasonable
maxima." The Commission's report is at variance with the stated
conclusion, and in the absence of the record on which the report and
order were based, we cannot infer that, in the' determination of reasonableness, undue weight was given to relationship.
*The

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY.
490

Opinion of the Court.

rates there established for South Dakota destinations
were made relatively higher than those to trunk line territory. Moreover the petition of January 14, 1930 did not
specifically request the Commission to reopen No. 16309
for the purposes of proof as to the South Dakota rates.
The appellees now insist that what they desired was an
opportunity to show that the South Dakota tariffs were
worthless as a guide to the proper charges to North Dakota
destinations. But their petition disclosed no such purpose. It requested the reopening of the records "in No.
15584 and associated cases, including the Wyoming complaints." The granting of a rehearing upon this petition
might have involved the retrial of all the midcontinent
cases and the Commission was warranted in understanding that this was the scope of the application. The relief
asked was much broader than was necessary to the purpose appellees now avow, and we think they cannot successfully challenge the Commission's refusal to consider
all midcontinent petroleum rates established after full
hearings to which the carriers had been parties. We are
not referred to any request for the reopening of the South
Dakota complaint, No. 16309, which appellees say was the
specific proceeding they desired consolidated with this
case, No.17304.
It is further asserted that the failure to consolidate the
present proceeding with the two complaints as to rates
from Wyoming to North Dakota points deprived the
appellees of a fair hearing because the scale of rates from
the midcontinent field ought to bear a just relation to
those from Wyoming origins. The answer to this contention is found in the Commission's reports. All of the parties complainant and defendant in this case and in No.
15584 introduced evidence as to the existing rates from
Wyoming origins and compared them with those from the
midcontinent field to North and South Dakota and westem Minnesota, the complainants in order to sustain their

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

position that the latter were unreasonable, the respondents to support the view that they bore a proper relation
to the Wyoming rates and ought not to be reduced. It
cannot therefore be said that by the refusal to consolidate
the Wyoming complaints with the present proceeding the
carriers were denied a fair hearing on the luestion of
rela ionship between the two rate structures.
The District Court was right in holding that the appellees did not make out the claims that the Commission exceeded its statutory authority or denied a fair hearing. But as we think the District Court erred in holding
that the Commission improperly refused the petition of
February 3, 1932, for a rehearing based upon changed
conditions, the judgment must be
Reversed.
HEINER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. DIAMOND ALKALI CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 476 and 477. Argued February 10, 1933.-Decided March 13,
1933.

1. Allowance by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of special
assessment of profits taxes under § 328 of the Revenue Act of 1918,
and his selection, for comparison, of representative corporations en;
gaged in a like or similar trade or business to that of the taxpayer,
are matters of administrative discretion which are not reviewable
by the courts. Williamsport Wire Rope Co.- v. United States, 277
U. S. 551. P. 507.
2. Where a taxpayer's profits taxes have been determined by the Commissioner by special assessments under §§ 327 and 328 of the Revenue Act of 1918, the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals
are without jurisdiction, in a suit for refund, to recalculate the
* Together with No. 478, Lewellyn, Formerly Collector of Internal

Revenue, v. Diamond Alkali Co.

