U. S. v. DAKOTA-MONTANA OIL CO.
448

Statement of the Case.

construction for which plaintiff contends cannot be
sustained. He is bound by the award.
Defendants insist that plaintiff not only was limited in
recovery by the amount of the award but that he suffered no discrimination. The latter contention is without merit. The allegations of the complaint comply with
the requirements of § 16 (2) and are clearly sufficient to
sustain a judgment against the defendants for the amount
of the award together with interest, costs and a reasonable
attorney's fee to be taxed and collected as a part of the
costs of the suit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed. The case is remanded to the district court for
proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. DAKOTA-MONTANA OIL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 434.

Argued February 8, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

Section 234 (a) (8) of the Revenue Act of 1926, provides that, in
the case of oil wells, the taxpayer shall have, as a deduction from
gross income, "a reasonable allowance for depletion and for depreciation of improvements, according to the peculiar conditions of
each case," to be made under departmental rules and regulations.
Section 204 permits the taxpayer to calculate depletion on the basis
of cost alone, or else to deduct an arbitrary allowance, fixed by
the statute, without reference to cost or discovery value, at 27'%
of gross income from the well. Held, construing these in the light
of earlier provisions and administrative construction, that the capitalized cost of drilling, as distinguished from cost of physical property such as machinery, tools, equipment, pipes, etc., is subject to
depletion allowance and not to depreciation allowance. Pp. 460,
466.
59 F. (2d) 853, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 591, to review a judgment against

the United States on a claim for money collected as
income taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General
Rugg, and Messrs. Whitney North Seymour and Andrew D. Sharpe were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Herman J. Galloway, with whom Mr. Louis P.
Donovan was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent, a North Dakota corporation, in making its
tax return of income derived from its operation of oil wells
in 1926, claimed a deduction from gross income of a depreciation allowance on account of the capitalized costs of
preliminary development and drilling. The Commissioner refused to allow the deduction claimed, ruling that
it was for depletion, not depreciation, and was therefore
included in the statutory depletion allowance of 27 % of
the gross income, which the respondent had also deducted.
§§ 204 (c), 234 (a) (8), Revenue Act of 1926, c. 27, 44
Stat. 9, 16, 41. Having paid the correspondingly increased tax, respondent brought this suit in the Court of
Claims to recover the excess. The court gave judgment
for respondent, holding that the development and drilling
costs were the proper subjects of a depreciation allowance
which should have been made in addition to that for depletion. 59 F. (2d) 853. This Court granted certiorari to
resolve a conflict of the decision below with that of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in Burnet
v. Petroleum Exploration, 61 F. (2d) 273.
The Revenue Act of 1926, like earlier acts,1 provided
generally that "in the case of . . . oil and gas wells,"
taxpayers should be allowed, as a deduction from gross
income, "a reasonable allowance for depletion and for
1§

234 (a) (9), Revenue Act of 1918; § 234 (a) (9), Revenue Act

of 1921; § 234 (a) (8), Revenue Act of 1924.

U. S. v. DAKOTA-MONTANA OIL CO.
459

Opinion of the Court.

depreciation of improvements, according to the peculiar
conditions in each case "; such allowance "in all cases to
be made under rules and regulations to be prescribed by
the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary."
§ 234 (a) (8). The earlier acts provided that depletion
should be allowed on the basis of cost unless the taxpayer
was the discoverer of the well upon an unproven tract, in
which case the basis was the "value of the property" at
the time of the discovery or within 30 days thereafter.'
See Palmerv. Bender, 287 U. S. 551. But the "discovery
value" provision was eliminated from the act of 1926,
which is applicable here, and the taxpayer was permitted
to calculate depletion on the basis of cost alone, § 204 (c),
or else to deduct an arbitrary allowance, fixed by the
statute, without reference to cost or discovery value, at
27Y2% of gross income from the well."
Articles 223 and 225 of Treasury Regulations 69, under
the Revenue Act of 1926, were followed by the Commissioner in assessing the present tax. Article 223 purports
to permit the taxpayer to choose whether to deduct costs
of development and drilling as a development expense in
the year in which they occur or else to charge them "to
capital account returnable through depletion." In the
'§ 234 (a) (9), Revenue Act of 1918; § 234 (a) (9), Revenue Act
of 1921; § 204 (c), Revenue Act of 1924.
8" Sec.

204. (c) The basis upon which depletion, exhaustion, wear

and tear, and obsolescence are to be allowed in respect of any prop-

erty shall be the same as is provided in subdivision (a) or (b) for the
purpose of determining the gain or loss upon the sale or other disposition of such property, except that"(2) In the case of oil and gas wells the allowance for depletion
shall be 271/2 per centum of the gross income from the property
during the taxable year. Such allowance shall not exceed 50 per
centum of the net income of the taxpayer (computed without allow-

ance for depletion) from the property, except that in no case shall
the depletion allowance be less than it would be if computed without

reference to this paragraph."

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

latter event, which is the case here, "in so far as such expense is represented by physical property, it may be taken
into account in determining a reasonable allowance for
depreciation " which, if the arbitrary deduction for depletion were claimed, would constitute an additional allowance. Article 225 limits the depreciation for which an
allowance may be made to that of "physical property,
such as. machinery, tools, equipment, pipes, etc." We
do not doubt that the effect of this language is to require
the taxpayer to look to the depletion allowance, in this
case 271/2% of gross income, for a return of the costs of
developing and drilling the well, which are involved here.
Respondent challenges the validity of the regulations
thus applied as in conflict with § 234 (a) (8), which allows the d-eductiou of a reasonable allowance "for depreciation of improvements" in addition to the deduction for
depletion. It is urged that the drill hole is an "improvement " of the taxpayer's oil land and that no logical distinction in accounting practice can be made between the
cost of this improvement and the cost of buildings and
machinery placed on the property for the operation of the
well, for which depreciation should admittedly be allowed.
The government argues that the well itself is not tangible physical property which wears out with use so as
properly to be the subject of depreciation, and that in any
event the regulations are based upon the practices of the
oil industry and are within the requirements of § 234 (a)
(8) that a reasonable allowance for depletion and depreciation of improvements be made in all cases under rules and
regulations to be prescribed by the Treasury Department.
We do not stop to inquire whether, under correct accounting practice, an anticipated loss of a part of the
capitalized cost of developing and drilling an oil well
because of decreased utility of the well would be described
or treated differently than wear and tear of the machinery

U. S. v. DAKOTA-MONTANA OIL CO.
459

Opinion of the Court.

used in production, or whether an allowance for the former
serves a purpose logically distinguishable from one for the
latter. For the issue before us, whether the statute'requires the former to be treated as depletion, is resolved by
the history of the legislation and the administrative
practice under it.
The Revenue Act of 1916 permitted the deduction of a
reasonable allowance for the "exhaustion, wear and tear
of property" used in a business or trade and in the case
of oil and gas wells "a reasonable allowance for actual
reduction in flow and production." § 12 (b) Second.
The regulations authorized the deduction of an annual
allowance for "depreciation " and, in the case of oil and
gas wells, for "depletion" (Treasury Regulations 33,
Arts. 159, 160, 162, 170), but ruled that no annual deduction for "obsolescence " was authorized by the statute
in any case; such a loss it was provided, might only be
deducted in the year when it became complete by abandonment of the property as no longer useful. (See Arts.
162, 178, 179 of Treasury Regulations 33; Gambrinus
Brewery Co. v. Anderson, 282 U. S. 638, 643.) In defining these terms, therefore, the Department was apparently faced with the practical consequence that no
annual deduction could be made in anticipation of those
losses which it regarded as attributable to obsolescence,
while-such a deduction might. be made for those which
it attributed to depreciation or depletion. Depreciation
was defined generally to include the wear and tear and
exhaustion of property by use; and obsolescence, the loss
in value of property due to the fact that because of changing conditions it has ceased to be useful.
Plainly, under these definitions the loss in value of the
drill hole for an oil well, because of the approaching exhaustion of the oil in the ground, was not to be treated
as depreciation. Article 170 of Regulations 33 neces-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

sarily ruled that it was not to be treated as obsolescence
by declaring that the purpose of the statutory provision
relative to oil wells was to return, through the aggregate
of annual depletion deductions, the taxpayer's capital investment in the oil, including "the cost of development
(other than the cost of physical property incident to such
development)." Article 170 thus contemplated that an
annual deduction should be made for costs of development by including them in the cost of the oil in the
ground for which a depletion allowance was authorized
by § 12 (b), Second "for actual reduction in flow and
production."
While the Revenue Acts which followed that of 1916
provided that taxpayers generally might deduct "a reasonable allowance for obsolescence" in addition to that
"for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property used in
the trade or business,"I in each of them the section expressly applicable to oil and gas wells,5 omitted the word
obsolescence and provided, in terms, only for the deduction of an allowance for depletion and for depreciation
of improvements. Whatever doubts this omission may
have suggested as to the propriety of an allowance for
obsolescence in the case of oil and gas wells, raising the
same problem as that under the Act of 1916, the question
whether an allowance should be made for development
and drilling costs was set at rest, where cost was the basis
of depletion and depreciation of improvements, by the
express language of the Acts of 1918 and 1921, that the
cost basis should include "costs of development not otherwise deducted." But the questions remained whether the
allowance was to be treated as for depreciation or deple-.
tion, and more important, whether any allowance could be
made for development costs when the basis of depletion
'§ 234 (a) (7) of the Revenue Acts of 1918, 1921, 1924 and 1926.

See note 1, supra.

U. S. v. DAKOTA-MONTANA OIL CO.
459

Opinion of the Court.

was discbvery value rather than cost.' In answering these
questions the Department adhered to and made explicit
the position taken by it under the 1916 Act that development costs other than the cost of physical property incident to the development must be returned through the
depletion allowance, but the regulations also provided expressly that the cost of "physical property such as machinery, tools, equipment, pipes, etc.," should be returned
by an annual allowance for depreciation. (Arts. 223, 225
of Treasury Regulations 45 under the Revenue Act of
1918.) The distinction thus taken was continued in the
regulations under the Acts of 1921, 1924 and 1926,' although beginning with that of 1924 the express declaration
of the statute, already noted, that the cost basis for depletion and depreciation of improvements should include
costs of development was eliminated, leaving the broad
provision that a reasonable allowance should in all cases
be made under rules and regulations to be prescribed by
the Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary.
Doubts arising because of the silence of the Revenue
Acts of 1918 and later years as to whether costs of
development and drilling were to be included in depletion when based on discovery value, were resolved by the
regulations already noted and by the addition of another.
Article 220 (a) (3) of Treasury Regulations 45 provided
that "the 'property' which may be valued after discovery is the 'well.' For the purposes of these sections
the 'well' is the drill hole, the surface necessary for the
6'The

discoverer of an oil well upon an unproven tract was permitted, for.the first time by § 234 (a) (9) of the Revenue Act of 1918,
to calculate the allowance for depletion upon the basis of the value
of the "property" at the time of the discovery or within thirty days
thereafter. See note 2, supra. The statute was silent as to the
inclusion of development costs.
'Arts. 223, 225, of Treasury Regulations 62, 69; Arts. 225, 227, of
Treasury Regulations 65.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 Us.

drilling and operation of the well, the oil or gas content
of the particular sand, zone or reservoir . . . in which the
discovery was made by the drilling, and from which the
production is drawn." By including the drill hole in the
property to be valued for depletion under § 234 (a) (9),
this article necessarily carried forward the distinction
taken under the 1916 Act between drilling costs, subject
to depletion allowance, and costs of machinery, tools and
equipment, subject to allowance for depreciation. Sections 234 (a) (9) of the Revenue Act of 1921 and § 204
(c) of the Act of 1924 continued the provisions of the
1918 Act, and this regulation remained unchanged.' It
was eliminated under the 1926 Act, being no longer necessary, as the statute omitted the "discovery value" provision and substituted the arbitrary percentage allowance
for depletion.'
Thus the Acts of 1918, 1921 and 1924 were consistently
construed by the regulations to permit a depletion, but
not a depreciation, allowance for the costs of development
work and drilling, which were treated for this purpose
either as a part of the cost or an addition to the discovery
value of the oil in the ground. The administrative construction must be deemed to have received legislative
approval by the reenactment of the statutory provision,
without material change. Murphy Oil C9. v. Burnet,
287 U. S. 299; Brewster v. Gage, 280 U. S. 327, 337.
Respondent argues that whatever effect may be
attributed to earlier reenactments, that of 1926, which is
applicable here, is without force because § 204 of that
Act abandoned discovery value as the basis of depletion
and permitted the taxpayer to abandon cost and substitute a fixed allowance of 271/2% of gross income from the
well. We think the contention unfounded and that, on
8
Arts. 220 (a) (3) of Treasury Regulations 62 and 222 (3) of
Treasury Regulations 65.
9 See Senate Report No. 52, 69th Congress, 1st Session, pp. 17, 18.

PETROLEUM EXPLORATION v. BURNET. 467
Syllabus.

459

the contrary, what was included in the reasonable allowance for depletion by the established construction of the
earlier acts gave significant content to the word as used
in the Act of 1926. There is no ground for supposing
that Congress, by providing a new method for computing
the allowance for depletion intended to break with the
past. and narrow the function of that allowance. The
reasonable inference is that it did not and that depletion
includes under the 1926 Act precisely what it included
under the earlier acts. The regulations under the 1926
Act so ruled, as has been shown, by continuing the provisions of earlier regulations under which costs of
development and drilling were returnable by the depletion allowance and not by an additional allowance for
depreciation." °
It is true that the Board of Tax Appeals in construing
the 1924 and 1926 Acts has held that capitalized drilling
costs are subject to a depreciation rather than a depletion
allowance. Jergins Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 22
B. T. A. 551; Ziegler v. Commissioner, 23 B. T. A. 1091;
P. M. K. Petroleum .Co. v. Commissioner, 24 B. T. A.
360. But these cases were all decided after the enactment of the 1926 Act and did not consider the administrative and legislative history, which we think decisive.
Reversed.
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION v. BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 448.

Argued February 8, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

Decided on the authority of United States v. Dakota-Montana Oil
Co., ante, p. 459.
61 F. (2d) 273, affirmed.
10 Compare also Treasury Decision 4333, Internal Revenue Bulletin

XI, April 11, 1932, No. 15, pp. 2, 3.

