U. S. v. ACME OPERATING CORP.
239

243

Opinion of the Court.

the respondent's duty to petitioner arose out of the law
governing its occupation. Petitioner made no reply to
the notice sent it by respondent. In view of the character
of respondent's duties, no contract can be implied from
petitioner's silence. That quite as reasonably may be
deemed to imply, if any implication is to be drawn, that
petitioner intended to stand on its rights and not to surrender them. And, as respondent was not in position to
dictate terms, petitioner was under no obligation to repudiate those proposed or to reply in any manner to the
notice. New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants'
Bank, 6 How. 344, 383. Hollister v. Nowlen, 19 Wend.
234, 242, 246. York Company v. Central Railroad, 3
Wall. 107,113. RailroadCo. v. Manufacturing Co.,supra,
329. Judson v. Western RailroadCorp., 6 Allen 487, 490491. Gott v. Dinsmore, 111 Mass. 45, 52.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. ACME OPERATING CORP.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 319.

Argued January 16, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. Claim of the mortgagee of vessels requisitioned by the Government, for amounts expended to repair them after their return, held
without basis in view (1) of an agreement, joined in by the Government, the owners and the mortgagee, by which the expense to
the Government of transporting to destination the cargoes aboard
when the use was taken should be charged against the amount of
just compensation, and any balance in the Government's favor be
payable upon return of the ships and be secured by prior liens
upon them; and (2) in view of the fact that the amount found to
be due the Government upon the final accounting exceeded the
amount found to have been expended for the repairs. P. 247.
2. The claim against the United States, by the holder of mortgages
on ships that were requisitioned by the Government, for the expense
of repairs to put .them in condition after their return, gains no

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

support in this case from the fact that the claimant also holds by
assignment construction liens that attached before the requisition,
the status of which is not revealed by the findings. P. 248.
74 Ct. Cls. 82, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 588, to review a judgment
allowing a claim for "just compensation" presented by the
holder of mortgage liens on vessels that were requisitioned
for use by the Government and afterwards repaired at
the expense of the mortgagee.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Mr. Erwin N. Griswold were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Addison C. Burnham, with whom Me8rs. Albert
T. Gould, Alfred P. Lowell, Charles H. Bradley, and
Walter B. Howe were on the briefs, for respondents.
MR. JusTc

STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on certiorari, granted on petition of the
government, to review a judgment of the Court of Claims
in favor of the intervenor, the Liberty Trust Company,
respondent here. 74 Ct. Cls. 82. The suit was brought
by Acme Operating Corporaton, as plaintiff, to recover
just compensation alleged to be due to it as the charterer
of two steamships, the "James S. Whitney" and the
"H. M. Whitney," the use of which was requisitioned in
behalf of the government by the Shipping Board, under
the Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182. The Court
of Claims dismissed the petition of the plaintiff, but gave
judgment for the intervenor, which claimed as the assignee and successor in interest of the Fidelity Trust Company, mortgagee of the two vessels. The sole question
presented by the petition is whether the court was right
in giving judgment for the intervenor.
The vessels were each subject to a mortgage of the
Fidelity Trust Company, later assigned to the intervenor.

U. S. v. ACME OPERATING CORP.
243

Opinion of the Court.

The owners chartered them to the Acme Corporation,
plaintiff below, and, at about the same time, they were
placed in repair yards for alteration and repairs, the cost
of which for each ship was paid only in part. On April
27, 1918, shortly before the maturity of the mortgages,
the use of the vessels was requisitioned by the Shipping
Board. Having been arrested under libels in admiralty
by the construction companies for the balance due for the
repairs, they were released to the government by court
orders.
August 12, 1918, the United States, through the Shipping Board, entered into a contract with the owners of the
ships and the mortgagee, predecessor in interest of the
intervenor, by which it was provided that the government
should retain from the amounts which would otherwise
be due as just compensation for the use of the vessels, its
expenditures in behalf of the owners, for transporting to
their destinations the cargoes which were in the ships at
the time of requisition. If just compensation due "for
the requisitioning " of the vessels exceeded the debt to the
government, the government was authorized to apply the
excess to the payment of the mortgages and liens on the
vessels.. It was also provided that if the ships should be
released from the requisition or returned to the owners
before the government should be fully reimbursed ,fcr
carrying the cargoes forward to destination, the government should have liens upon them for the amount of the
unpaid balance, which the owners and the mortgagee'
agreed should be superior to the mortgage liens.
In December, 1918, requisition charter parties between
the government and the owners of the ships were executed as of the date of the requisitions. The charter
parties are not set forth in the findings, but they provided that "the owner accepts this requisition charter in
full satisfaction of . . . all claims . . . against the
United States arising out of the requisition" and accepts

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

the compensation provided by the charter parties "as the
just compensation required by law."
The ships were subsequently released by the government and returned by the Board to the owners, the "H.
M. Whitney" on July 8, 1919 and the "James S. Whitney" on July 10, 1919. They were placed in dock for
repairs and reconditioning, upon completion of which they
were removed by the agent of the owners and Fidelity
Trust Co., the mortgagee. The court below found that
the Fidelity "advanced and paid," for the account of the
owners of the two vessels, a total of $129,299.76 "for sundry services and materials in connection with" the repairs, and gave judgment for the intervenor for that
amount.
A final accounting was had between the owners and the
government which the court below found to be correct.
The account, after crediting to the owners $87,706.84,
the estimated cost of reconditioning the ships as fixed by
a survey, showed a balance of $77,068.54 still owing to
the government for delivering the cargoes which were in
the ships at the time of requisition. The total amount
due the government at the time the vessels were returned
thus exceeded the claim of the intervenor. In September, 1920, the Fidelity Trust Company became financially
embarrassed, was taken over by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, and, in April, 1921, its assets were
transferred to the intervenor which, for purposes of the
present litigation, may be regarded as standing in its
stead.
The court below held that the requisition of the use of
the ships when they were in the custody of the admiralty
court and when the mortgagee was neither in possession
nor entitled to possession, did not entitle the mortgagee to
compensation; but it nevertheless held that the intervenor was entitled to recover the $129,297.66, which it

U. S. v. ACME OPERATING CORP.
243

Opinion of the Court.

expended to repair the vessels after their return by the
government, on the ground that "the injury to the vessels
themselves was an injury to the res" on which the intervenor held a mortgage. In this we think it was in error.
The intervenor endeavors to support the judgment below on the grounds that the injury or depreciation of the
vessels while in use by the government under the requisition charters was, in effect, a destruction of them pro
tanto, which in itself operated as a requisition of the
mortgagee's interest, for which just compensation must
be paid (see United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333, 339;
A. W. Duckett & Co. v. United States, 266 U. S. 149, 151)
and that in any case, the moftgagee's security was impaired to the full extent of the damage done, and it is
entitled to recover the cost to it of rehabilitating its
security by reconditioning the vessels.
It is unnecessary to consider in detail numerous objections raised by the government to the soundness of these
.contentions and to the sufficiency of the findings to support them, if sound. It is enough that the agreement
of August 12, 1918, between the United States, the owners
of the vessels and the mortgagee, which is binding on the
intervenor, contemplated that the government should be
reimbursed in full for its transportatioD charges from " the
compensation due for requisitioning" the vessels, before
any payments of compensation should be made to the
mortgagee. To this end, the agreement provided that in
the event that the steamers were returned before the government was fully paid for carrying the cargoes, the government should have "and there are hereby created liens
upon said steamers and both of them, for the amount of
the unpaid balance ... which amount shall be forthwith
due and payable on the release of said steamers or either
of them, and which liens the part:es . . . agree shall be
superior to the mortgage liens." We think the effect of

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

this agreement was to confer upon the claim of the government priority over that of the mortgagee. The
superiority of the government's claim to that of the mortgagee is certainly not affected by the fact that the vessels
have been returned and the mortgagee seeks not the full
amount of its mortgages, but the amount in which it
contends its interest has been destroyed or its security
impaired.
When the vessels were returned, $164,775.38 was due
the government for unpaid transportation charges. The
government has credited upon its claim the cost of repairs found reasonable by the survey, $87,706.84. But
even if the full amount of $129,297.66, claimed by the intervenor to represent the damage to the vessels while in
the service, be regarded as due to the owners and mortgagee as their interests may appear, the most that the
mortgagee can ask is that the government's prior claim
be reduced by that amount. Even if that is done, the
government's claim is not satisfied, or its lien discharged.
Hence, there is no foundation upon any theory for the
recovery of a money judgment against the government
by the intervenor, as mortgagee.
The intervenor seeks also to sustain its recovery upon
the ground that it.,owns the construction liens for repairs
and 4lterations of the vessels before they were requisitioned. The findings show that the claims of the construction companies were acquired by the Fidelity Trust Company and, in 1921, transferred to the intervenor along
with the other assets of that company. But no claim
founded upon these construction liens was asserted by the
intervenor's petition or considered by the court below.
The case was decided, as it was evidently tried, on the
basis of intervenor's claim upon its mortgages. The
status of the liens at the time of the trial is neither revealed by the findings nor mentioned in the opinion; the
findings do not admit of a determination of their validity.

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE.
243

249

Syllabus.

The vessels Were placed in full repair by the mortgagee; to
the extent that they were repaired before the liens were
assigned, the lienors could have had no rights against the
government for the impairment of their security and they
transferred none by the assignments. There is no finding
which shows to what extent the repairs had been made at
the time of the assignments, although it appears that
some of them, at least, were then completed. The intervenor does not say and cannot, on these findings, that it
made the repairs to protect the security of the liens
rather than that of its own mortgages, which are subordinate to the claims of the government. Accordingly, there
is no basis in the findings for contending that the intervenor stands in any better position as the holder of the
construction liens than it does as mortgagee.
Reversed.
NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY CO. v. WALLACE, COMPTROLLER OF THE
TREASURY OF TENNESSEE, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 176: Argued December 12, 1932.1-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. Whether an appeal to this Court from a judgment of a state court
in a proceeding under a state "declaratory judgments" law, presents a "case or controversy" within the jurisdiction of this COurt,
depends not upon the name or the form, but upon the nature and
substance, of the proceeding and the effect of the judgment upon
the rights asserted by the appellant. P. 260.

2. The Tennessee Declaratory Judgments Act, as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, may be invoked only when the complainant asserts rights which are challenged by the defendant, and
presents for decision an actual controversy, to which he is a party,
capable of final adjudication by the judgment to be rendered; and
no judgment will be rendered when all the parties who will be
adversely affected by it are not before the court. In a suit under
the Act to secure a judicial determination that a tax levied against

