OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

agencies--not the source of congressional power to control
State action in respect of other matters.
Iowa-Des Moines National Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S.
239, much relied upon by petitioner, is not controllingthe circumstances and issues there involved were wholly
different from those here presented. The Iowa Supreme
Court found, or assumed, and this was accepted here, that
through the wrongful action of state taxing officials the
complaining banks had been subjected to intentional, arbitrary and systematic discrimination through assessments
greatly in excess of those imposed upon competing
moneyed capital; and the unequal exactions complained of
were in violation of the Iowa laws. The points for decision in this Court concerned the effect of unauthorized
action by state officers (Could such action be attributed
to the State?) and the proper remedy. Unlawful inequality of treatment as between the banks and competing capital was not controverted. There was no occasion
to consider whether failure by'a State to tax National
banks while subjecting her own banks to taxation would
occasion discrimination against the latter forbidden by
the XIV Amendment.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

DICKSON

ET AL.

V. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 63.

Argued November 16, 17, 1932.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. Contracts between broker and customer for pretended purchases
and sales of grain for future delivery, which do not contemplate
that any grain shall be actually bought, sold, or delivered on
behalf of the customer, violate the Missouri Bucket Shop Law,
when made and executed in 'that State. Pp. 192, 194.
2. To an action by the broker for commissions and advances, it is
a bar that the contracts are thus invalid P. 196.

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

Argument for Respondent.

3. Such contracts do not lose their local character merely because
with the knowledge of the customer the broker makes actual corresponding purchases and offsetting sAles on exchanges in other
States; and thie illegality of the contracts with the customer is not
affected by the fact that the exchange transactions are executed
on federal " contract markets," are conducted in form as if based
on genuine orders from the' customer, are in conformity with the

federal regulations, and may be valid as beiween the brokers on
the exchanges.

P. 193.

4. The Federal Grain Futures Act forbids "future" trading not
carried on in compliance with its regulations, but evinces no
intention to authorize all such trading if there is compliance, and
it does not supersede state laws that make gambling in grain
futures illegal.

P. 198.

5. The Missouri Bucket Shop Law, as here "involved, is not in conflict
with the Grain Futures Act. P. 200.
56 F. (2d) 525, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 581, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the present petitioners in an action by the
Grain Company to recover amounts claimed to be due
to it from them for its services and advances as broker,
in purchases and sales of grain for future delivery. The
trial was to the District Court without a jury.

Mr. S. J. Jones for petitioners.
Mr. Paul R. Stinson, with whom Messrs. Arthur Mag
and Roy B. Thomson were on the brief, for respondent.
Respondent contends that (1) each contract, having
been executed in Chicago, Minneapolis or Winnipeg, its
validity is not determinable by the law or statutes of
Missouri, but is determinable by the rules and principles
of the common law; (2) the contracts were presumably
lawful and the burden was upon defendants to prove
that they were wagering or fictitious transactions; (3)
there was no substantial evidence that any of the transactions were mere fictions or wagers; (4) each transaction
consummated in the United States, having been executed
between plaintiff and another clearing member of a Grain

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Exchange designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as a
"contract market," and in full compliance with the Federal Grain Futures Act, was valid under the provisions of
that *statute, which superseded all state legislation covering the same field.
Since neither the Missouri law nor its statutes govern
these transactions, it is unnecessary for this Court to
decide whether the Grain Futures Act has superseded
those statutes.
The contracts in question, executed by plaintiff as
broker for and in behalf of defendants upon officially
designated contract markets, are valid and enforceable
under the Federal Grain Futures Act.
M... JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Uhlmann Grain Company, an Illinois corporation,
brought this action of contract in the federal court for
western Missouri against A. P. Dickson, a citizen and resident of Carrollton in that State. Four other cases of like
character were, by agreement, consolidated with this one;
and the five cases were tried below and are brought here
as a consolidated suit. The pleadings, facts and proceedings stated in respect to the Dickson suit are applicable
to all. The petition alleged that Dickson employed the
company as a broker to purchase and sell for him grain
on the Chicago, Minneapolis and Winnipeg exchanges;
that he agreed to pay it commissions for such service and
to reimburse it for any advances made; and that upon an
account stated there is due a balance of $3,714.06, after
crediting amounts received from the proceeds of purchases
and sales and as margins.
Dickson denied the indebtedness and pleaded further
in bar that the transactions out of which the indebtedness
is alleged to have arisen were conducted wholly within the
State of Missouri and were gambling, illegal under its

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

laws; that no purchase or sale of grain was made for him
and that none for him was contemplated by either party;
that the intention of both was merely that the defendant
should settle for differences in the market prices; that the
transactions were not actual dealings by him in grain futures but dealings which as to him were wholly fictitious
or pretended, and in fact merely gambling on the rise and
fall of the market prices of grain.
The company replied that the obligation sued on arose
from transactions in the purchase and sale of grain for
future delivery as commonly conducted on boards of
trade; that these transactions were carried out on the
boards of trade of Chicago and Minneapolis which had
been designated by the Secretary of Agriculture under
The [Federal] Grain Futures Act, September 21, 1922,
c. 369, 42 Stat. 998, as " contract markets "; that the company was a member of each of said boards; and that each
of the transactions of purchase and sale made by the company on behalf of Dickson was made by it with another
member of the board and in compliance with the provisions of that Act.
The case was tried by the District Judge without a jury.
Dickson contended that none of the alleged contracts
made on the boards of trade was entered into on his
behalf; that they were devices employed by the company
on its own behalf in conducting at Carrollton what was
actually a bucket shop in which to gamble in violation of
the laws of the State; that he did not employ the company
to make any contract for future delivery; that it was
understood by him and the plaintiff, in each transaction,
that receipt and delivery of the grain would not be required. On evidence which in abbre- iated form occupies,
besides the exhibits, 125 pages of the printed record, the
judge found the facts as alleged in the plea in bar. He
found specifically, among other things, that the transactions were wagering contracts "cloaked in the forms of

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

law "; and that the company's transactions with or for
the customers occurred wholly in Missouri. He declined
to make any of the findings requested by the company,
denied recovery and entered judgment for the defendant.
A motion for a new trial was overruled.
The company appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
and contended, among other things, (1) That there was
no substantial evidence to support the finding that the
transactions were fictitious or gambling transactions and
hence invalid under the law of Missouri; and (2) That
The Grain Futures Act superseded all relevant state laws
relating to the subject of dealings in futures on "contract
markets," and that the transactions in question, being
valid under the federal Act, were necessarily valid under
the laws of Missouri. The Circuit Court of Appeals, one
judge dissenting, reversed the judgment of the District
Court; and remanded the cause for further proceedings.
56 F. (2d) 525. This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
First. The defense of illegality is predicated not on
things done, or to be done, in Chicago or Minneapolis
or Winnipeg, but wholly upon things done ii Missouri.
Uhlmann Grain Company, a member of the boards of
trade of Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Missouri,
and Winnipeg, Canada, was engaged in the grain brokerage business. In 1924 it established a branch office
at Carrollton, then a town of about 3200 inhabitants. It
is not disputed that, upon receiving at Carrollton a purported order from Dickson, the Carrollton branch of the
Grain Company communicated with its Kansas City
office, and that the company thereupon entered into contracts on some other board of trade for future purchase
or sale of grain. The contracts, so far as made within the
United States, were entered into on either the Chicago or
the Minneapolis board. Each of these boards had been
designated by the. Secretary of Agriculture *a " contract
market." The company was a member in good standing

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

of each of the boards. Each contract was made in the
name of the company as principal with another member
of the board as principal. Each contract was evidenced
by a record in writing as prescribed by the Grain Futures
Act. And after each such contract was entered into by
the company, it mailed, from its office in Kansas City to
its customer at Carrollton, a written confirmation of his
alleged order and of its execution, which recited the date
of the contract, the quantity and kind of grain bought and
sold, the contract price per bushel of the commodity, the
delivery month, and the place where the contract of purchase or sale was executed.' The requirements of the
federal act appear to have been complied with. There
is no suggestion that these contracts violated the law of
the place where the exchange was situated. It may be
assumed that they were valid as between the Uhlmann
Grain Company and its fellow members of the exchanges.
But there were two distinct agreements: that between
customer and company, in which both parties acted as
principals; and that between the company and brokers
on the exchange, in which both of the parties there likewise acted as principals.

It does not follow that because

the contracts between the members of the exchanges were
'The alleged confirmation stated also: "All transactions made by
us for your account contemplate the actual receipt and delivery of
the property and payment therefor. We reserve the right to close
these transactions when deposits are running out, without giving further notice. We also reserve the privilege of clearing all transactions
through Clearing Associations, if there be any, from day to day in
accordance with the usage, rules and regulations of the Exchange
where the trade is made, prevailing at the time. All purchases and
sales made by us for you are made in accordance with and subject to
the rules, regulations and customs of the Chamber of Commerce or
Board of Trade where the trades are made and the rules, regulations
and requirements of its Board of Directors, and all amendments that
may be made thereto. This contract is made under authority of the
Act of Congress known as 'The Future Trading Act.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

valid, those entered into by the company at Carrollton
with Dickson and its other customers were valid also.
Compare Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock Co.,
198 U. S. 236, 249-250. See, also, Harvey v. Merrill, 150
Mass. 1; 22 N. E. 49; Riordon v. McCabe, 341 Ill. 506,
512-515; 173 N. E. 660. Whether the customer, in his
agreement with the company, ordered that contracts be
entered into in his behalf on the exchange, is the serious
issue of fact in the case at bar. If the customer did so
order by his agreement, we should have to determine by
the law of which state the defense of illegality is governed.
If, as Dickson contends, and the trial court found, Dickson's agreement did not contemplate the execution of
transactions on the exchange in his behalf, clearly the defense of illegality is governed by the law of Missouri,
unless that law has been superseded by The Grain Futures
Act.
Second. There was evidence that the transactions out of
which the indebtedness is alleged to have arisen were not
in fact orders to enter into contracts on behalf of the defendants to purchase or sell for future delivery but were
devices knowingly employed by the company solely to
enable them to gamble. They testified that they were
assured by the local manager that they would never have
to receive or deliver any grain as a result of their speculations. And there is no lack of evidence to support a finding that in doing so the manager acted within the scope
of his authority. It is admitted that no grain was actually delivered by or to the plaintiff's customers. The
accounts of the defendants were carried on margin; and
the extent of their purported obligations exceeded their
financial capacity. It is clear that their purpose was solely"
to make a profit by reason of the fluctuations in the market price of grain; and that the plaintiff knew this. The
Carrollton office was equipped in a manner common to
bucket shops; its furnishings consisted of a desk, chairs,

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

a typewriter, blackboard, and telegraph instrument. The
branch manager testified, as did the defendants, that he
was active in soliciting business among the townspeople.
Between 40 and 50 local residents from widely divergent
walks of life in no way connected with purchasing or
selling grain became customers of the branch. Of the five
defendants in the cases consolidated for trial, who were
the plaintiff's largest customers at Carrollton, two were
farmers, two were clothing merchants, and one was an
ice dealer. These defendants, who were not in the grain
business, who had never traded on a grain exchange, and
who had no facilities for handling grain, purported to buy
and sell in amounts up to 50,000 bushels in a single transaction. In a period of nine months the total number of
bushels involved in the transactions of four of the defendants, according to one of the plaintiff's witnesses, was
2,360,000. The defendants undoubtedly knew that the
company regularly entered into contracts on the exchanges corresponding to the transactions at Carrollton.
But the evidence warrants the conclusion that the contracts on the exchange were entered into by the company
to enable it to secure the data for the defendants' wagers
and to provide the means for determining the defendants'
gains and losses; and that both the plaintiff and the defendants so regarded the contracts on the exchanges. So
far as concerned the obligations which they undertook,
the customers were in the same position as if they had
simply wagered against the company on the fluctuations
in the prices of grain. Thus, the evidence supports the
conclusion that the transactions between the defendants
and the company were executed and performed wholly in
Missouri; and the law of Missouri accordingly governs,
unless prevented by the federal act.
The burden was on the defendants to establish the
defense of illegality under the law of Missouri, Crawford
v. Spencer, 92 Mo. 498, 506; 4 S. W. 713; and the evidence

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

was ample to support the conclusion of the trial court that
the defense had been sustained. The Missouri Bucket
Shop Law, Rev. Stat. (1929), §§ 4316-4323, defines transactions in grain declared to constitute gambling and
makes it punishable either to enter into the prohibited
transactions or to keep a place where they are entered
into. Section 4317 declares that a bucket shop is a place
wherein the person carrying on the shop goes through the
form of buying and selling certain commodities for other
persons " at prices fixed or pretended to be fixed by trades
or transactions made or offered to be made in same on
boards of exchange or otherwise, but wherein there is in
fact no actual purchase and sale, or sale and purchase of
such commodity for or on account of the party or parties
thereto." The statute further provides in § 4318 that all
such "pretended" sales or agreements, "wherein there is,
in fact, no actual purchase and sale or sale and purchase
of such commodities for or on account of the party or
parties thereto, are hereby declared gambling and criminal
acts, whether the order or contract for the pretended purchase or sale of such property purports to be offered,
accepted, executed, or consummated in this state or in
any other state or country: Provided, the offer to make
such pretended purchase or sale of said property is placed
or given or communicated from this state; and any person
violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
felony." '
'The defense rests solely on Mo. Rev. Stat. (1929), .§§ 4316 to
4323; not on §§ 4324-4326, 4329. The former sections derive
from Mo. Laws 1887, p. 171; the latter, from Mo. Rev. Stat. (1889)
§§ 3931-3936; see State v. Long, 261 Mo. 314, 316; 169 S. W. 11. The
latter sections prohibit the purchase or sale of grain on ms "-i where
there is an intention not to make or receive delivery, and d,are contracts made in viblation of this prohibition void, even if only one of
the parties to the contract has an intention not to deliver. Under
the latter sections it has been held that such an intention on the part
of a customer for whom a broker has executeo future contracts is

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

197

Opinion of the Court.

The state statute imposed a criminal penalty for the
negotiation of what was at common law an illegal contract. Compare Irwin v. Williar, 110 U. S. 499, 508-510;
Embrey v. Jemison, 131 U. S. 336, 345. Under the Missouri statutes it is no defense to a criminal prosecution
that the company entered into transactions for future
purchases and sales on a contract market, even where the
illegality consists in dealing in futures on margin. State
v. Christopher,318 Mo. 225; 2 S. W. (2d) 621. In the
case at bar the company was a party to the illegal consufficient to defeat the broker's claim for commissions,, even though
he was unaware of that intention, Price v. "Barnes,300 Mo. 216, 229,
231; 254 S. W. 33; but that the provisions do not apply where the
execution of the contracts occurred in another state pursuant to orders given to the broker in Missouri. Edwards Brokerage Co. v.
Stevenson, 160 Mo. 516, 527-528; 61 S. W. 617; see Connor v. Black,
119'Mo. 126, 141; 24 S. W. 184; Price v. Barnes, supra, at p. 232;
also, Elmore-Schultz Grain Co. v: Stonebraker, 202 Mo. App. 81;
214 S. W. 216; Claibome Commission Co. v. Stirlen, 262 S. W. 387.
These cases have no application in the case at bar.
' Compare the statutes enacted in recent years in several states,
declaring that contracts for future delivery of grain and other commodities are valid and enforceable if made according to the rules of
an exchange, actually executed on the exchange and performed or
discharged according to its rules, and made with or through a member in good standing. Ark. Acts 1929, No. 208, .Ark. Dig. Stat. (1931
Supp.) §§ 2661a-2661k; Ga. Acts 1929, p. 245, Ga. Code (1930
Supp.) §§ 4264(1)-4264(8); Miss. Acts 1928, c. 304, Miss. Code
(1930) §§ 1827-1837; Okla. Laws 1917, c. 97, Okla. Stat. (1931), c.
15, art. 24; S.Car. Acts'1928, No. 711, S.Car. Code (1932), §§ 63136321; Tex. Acts 1925, c. 15, Tex. Rev. Pen. Code (1925), arts. 656664. The South Carolina and Texas statutes contain a proviso declaring that such contracts shall be unlawful where it is not "contemplated" by the parties that there be actual delivery; and the
Georgia statute contains a proviso declaring such contracts unlawful
where it is not "stipulated" by the parties thereto that there shall
be actual delivery. For an analysis of the state statutes concerning
dealings in futures, see 45 Harv. L. Rev. 912-925. Compare E. W.
Patterson, Hedging and Wagering on Produce Exchanges, 40 Yale
L. J. 843.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

tracts with its customers; and hence it cannot recover
for commissions or for advances. The trial court accordingly was right in entering judgment for the defendants,
unless the Missouri law has been superseded by the federal
act.
Third. The Grain Futures Act did not supersede any
applicable provisions of the Missouri law making gambling in grain futures illegal. The Grain Futures Act
recites in § 3 that transactions in grain involving the sale
thereof for future delivery as commonly conducted on
boards of trade and known as "futures" are affected
with a national public interest; that they "are susceptible to speculation, manipulation and control "; and that
the resulting obstruction to and burden upon interstate
commerce in grain and the products and by-products
thereof "render regulation imperative for the protection
of such commerce." Section 4 declares that "it shall be
unlawful" to engage in such transactions except, among
other things: " (b) Where such contract is made by or
through a member of a board of trade which has been
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as a ' contract
market,' . . and if such contract is evidenced by a record
in writing which shows the date, the parties to such contract and their addresses, the property covered and its
price, and the terms of delivery."
The federal act declares that contracts for the future
delivery of grain shall be unlawful unless the prescribed
conditions are complied with. It does not provide that
if these conditions have been complied with the contracts,
or the transactions out of which they arose, shall be valid.
It does not purport to validate any dealings. Nor is there
any basis for the contention that Congress occupied the
field in respect to contracts for future delivery; and that
necessarily all state legislation in any way dealing with
that subject is superseded. The purpose of the Grain
Futures Act was to control the evils of manipulation of

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

prices in grain. Such manipulation, Congress found, was
effected through dealings in grain futures. See Board of
Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 32. Many persons had advocated, as a remedy, that all future trading be abolished.'
Congress took a less extreme position. It set up a system
of regulation and prohibited all future trading which did
not comply with the regulations prescribed. But it
evinced no intention to authorize all future trading if its
regulations were complied with. Both the language of
the act and its purpose are clear; and they indicate the
contrary. The Missouri law is in no way inconsistent
with the provision of the federal act. It does not purport
to legalize transactions which the federal act has made
illegal. It does not prescribe regulations for exchanges.
Obviously, manipulation of prices will not be made easier,
or the prevention of such manipulation be made more
difficult, because the State has declared that certain dealings in futures are illegal and has forbidden the mainte"See the remarks of Mr. Tincher, chairman of the committee reporting the bill, before the House. 62 Cong. Rec., 67th Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 9434. The title of the Act is "An Act for the prevention
and removal of obstructions and burdens upon interstate commerce
in grain by regulating transactions on grain futures exchanges, and
for other purposes." A cardinal argument for the passage of the
Grain Futures Act was the severe decline in prices on the Chicago
board of trade subsequent to the decision in Hill v. Wallace, 259
U. S. 44, holding sections of the Future Trading Act unconstitutional.
See H. R. No. 1095, 67th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 2; Sen. No. 871, 67th
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 7; 62 Cong. Rec., p. 12733; compare, id., p. 9429.
See, also, the statements of the purpose of the Future Trading
Act, H. R. No. 44, 67th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2; Sen. No. 212, 67th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4; and the disavowal of an intention to "legalize "
gambling, 61 Cong. Rec., 67th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1313, 1339-1340,
1370, 1374.
5See id., p. 9428. For a summary of prior bills introduced in Congress for the control of future trading, some of them providing for
its prohibition, see G. W. Hoffman, Future Trading Upon Organized
Commodity Markets, pp. 364-367.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

288 US.

nance within its borders of places where they are carried
on. Since there is nothing in the state law which is inconsistent with, or could conceivably interfere with the
operation or enforcement of, the federal law, the statute
of Missouri was not superseded. Compare Savage v.
Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533.V
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting.

I am unable to join in the decision just announced.
My understanding of the evidence constrains me to
dissent.
Sections 4316--4323, Mo. R. S., 1929, prohibit bucketshop transactions in Missouri. Section 4318 denounces
as gambling pretended purchases and sales "wherein
there is, in fact, no actual purchase and sale or sale and
purchase of such commodities for or on account of the
party or parties thereto." This Court rests its decision
solely on that provision.
Section 4324 denounces as gambling all purchases and
sales "without any intention of receiving and paying for
the property so bought, or of delivering the property so
sold." The judgment of the district court appears to be
based upon the conclusion that the transactions between
plaintiff and defendants violated that section. But the
contracts here involved were executed outside Missouri
and, as shown by the opinion of this Court, are not governed by § 4324. It is not involved. Edwards Brokerage Co. v. Stevenson, 160 Mo. 516, 527-528; 61 S. W. 617.
Atwater v. Edwards Brokerage Co., 147 Mo. App. 436,
448; 126 S. W. 823. Hood Co. v. McCune, 235 S. W. 158.
'Compare, also, Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 62; Asbell v.
Kansas, 209 U. S. 251, 257; Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S. 189, 199;
Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 149; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 623; Sherlock v. Allin , 93 U. S. 99.

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

BuTLER, J., dissenting.

Claiborne Commission Co. v. Stirlen, 262 S. W. 387, 388.
Cf. State v. Gritzner, 134 Mo. 512, 526-527; 36 S. W. 39.,
State v. Christopher,318 Mo. 225, 237; 2 S. W. (2d) 621.
The evidence shows affirmatively and without contradiction that plaintiff and defendants did not intend to and
did not violate § 4318.
Plaintiff is not a bucket shop proprietor. It has been
engaged for many years in operating grain elevators including a terminal one of great capacity and in dealing on
its own account in cash grain. It long has been a member of the Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City and Winnipeg exchanges and a broker executing customers' orders
for the purchase and sale of grain for future as well as for
immediate delivery.
.In 1924, from April to late November, it had a branch
at Carrollton, Missouri, in charge of one McDonough.
This branch was connected by private telegraph wire
with its Kansas City office and regularly posted prices at
which purchases and sales of grain were being contemporaneously made on the exchanges. McDonough solicited from defendants and others in and about Carrolton
orders for the purchase and sale of grain for future delivery to be executed by plaintiff upon the exchanges and,
upon information obtained from plaintiff, gave advice to
those desiring to speculate in contracts for the buying and
selling of grain on the exchanges.
He had no authority to bind plaintiff to execute orders
and transmitted any obtained by him to the Kansas City
office. If plaintiff rejected the order, it notified him at
once. An accepted order was sent to plaintiff's office in
Chicago and, if for purchase or sale in that city, was
executed by its representative in the grain pit on the
exchange there. An order for execution at Winnipeg was
sent by wire to plaintiff's broker there. Each order forwarded was identified by the customer's name which for
brevity in transmission was usually indicated by the num-

202

OCTOBER. TERM, 1932.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

ber given to his account. Unless the customer stipulated
otherwise, it had to be executed on the day it was given.
In making the purchases and sales on the exchanges,
members dealt with each other as principals, but each
was required separately to execute each order and, when
called on, to furnish the name of his customer to the
broker with whom he dealt. The rules of such exchanges
required a member to furnish to his customer desiring
the information the name of the other broker. And
plaintiff made available to defendants' counsel its records
disclosing the names of the other parties to the purchases
and sales in question.
Upon the execution of an order, plaintiff promptly
wired McDonough the result and on the same day sent by
mail directly to the customer a confirmation showing the
kind and quantity of grain, the time specified for delivery,
and the price at which it was bought or sold. Each confirmation contained the statement that "all transactions
made by us for your account contemplate the actual
receipt and-delivery of the property and payment therefor." The customer was bound within the specified future month to receive or deliver the grain he had contracted to buy or sell unless prior to that time he had
sold or otherwise closed his contract.
All the contracts here involved were, when made, intended by the parties to be and in fact were closed by
such counter transactions prior to the time fixed for delivery. In accordance with usage prevailing on all contract market exchanges, defendants' contracts of purchase were closed by corresponding sales and vice versa.
And in each instance plaintiff sent a statement to the
defendant showing the respective dates of purchase and
sale, the quantity and kind of grain, the specified time
for delivery, the amounts of plaintiff's commission and of
federal taxes, together with the net gain or loss.
Defendants admit that they intended the orders to be
executed on the exchanges, that they were so executed,

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

BUTLER,

203

J., dissenting.

and that the accounts are correct. The advances sued on
were made and the commissions claimed were earned.
Plaintiff did not sell what defendants bought, or buy what
they sold. It did not gain when they sustained losses on
their contracts to purchase or sell or lose when they made
gains thereon. There was no betting between plaintiff
and defendants.
The trial judge, taking plaintiff's requests for findings
as a basis, characterized the transactions as "purported,"
"pretended " and " fictitious." It quite clearly appears,
from the form and language as well as from the substance
of the findings1 and from his filed opinion, that he held
' The findings followed the form of plaintiff's requests and employed
the same language, except as indicated below. The words italicized
were added by the court; those within brackets were deleted from
plaintiff's requests.
1. In all of the transactions involved in these suits the plaintiff
purported to act [acted] as broker for defendants in the purchase and
sale of grain for future delivery, and in no case did plaintiff pretend
to enter into any other than a brokerage contract with any defendant.
2. Every pretended purchase and pretended sale was executed by
plaintiff for defendant on the Grain Exchange in Chicago, Illinois,
Minneapolis, Mnnesota, or Winnipeg, Manitoba. None of the contracts of purchase or sale involved in these suits purported to have
been [was] executed in Missouri.
3. Every transaction was a pretended contract of purchase or sale
of grain for future delivery, purported to have been executed on
grain exchanges by plaintiff in behalf of defendants on the one side,
in which the plaintiff was a clearing member of the exchange where
executed and in which the purported other party to the transaction,
either acting for himself or a pretended undisclosed principal, was
also a clearing member.
4. Every pretended contract of purchase or sale executed by plaintiff for defendants was purported to have been carried out in conformity with aad in compliance with the rules of the particular grain
exchange on which it was pretended to have been closed.
5. Every contract purported to have been executed by plaintiff on
behalf of defendants pretended to call [actually called] for the purchase or sale of grain for future delivery and was evidenced by a
memorandum in writing under which, and under the customs and

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

that, as actual deliveries were not intended or made, the
contracts creating the right to make or call for delivery
on specified terms violated § 4324. The characterizations,
rules of the exchanges were executed, the parties were obligated in
form and pretense to take or make delivery, or to respond in damages for failure to do so. That under the custom and practice existing and under the rules of the exchanges, off-setting or ringing
purchases or sales under proper circumstances, in good faith, were
permitted in lieu of the actual delivery of grain contracted for.
6. Every transaction involved inthese suits initiated by a purported purchase or sale was offset by a pretended sale or pretended
purchase executed in the same manner as the initiating purported
purchase or sale. Every pretended purchase or sale was closed out
by a purported offsetting transaction before the delivery time arrived
and was purported to have been executed by plaintiff on the orders
and at the instruction of defendants, save and except as to some of
the last transactions, which were closed out by plaintiff, without
instruction from such defendant at a time when defendant had no
cash margin to protect his transactions.
7. At all the times in question plaintiff was a member in good
standing of the grain exchanges on which the pretended contracts of
purchase and sale were executed, and plaintiff constantly maintained
a margin with the Clearing House of each Grain Exchange as security
for the performance of its bona fide contracts. All transactions of
pretended purchase and pretended sale executed by plaintiff for
defendants were purported to have been contracted for on the txchanges in the name of plaintiff [plaintiff was responsible for their
performance, and in each instance where the sale price was for an
amount less than the purchase price, plaintiff acting as defendants'
broker paid the difference to the Clearing House of the Exchange
upon which the transactions were carried out. In none of the transactions did plaintiff profit or lose by a -loss or profit to defendants.
'In all of them it acted only as a broker for defendants.]
8. None of the pretended purchases or sales were purported to have
been executed at Carrollton, Missouri. Orders were pretended to
have been given by defendants from time to time at Carrollton to
plaintiff's local office for purported execution on the Grain Exchanges
at Chicago, Minneapolis and Winnipeg; but none of these orders were
purported to have been accepted by plaintiff at Carrollton. All of
them were telegraphed to Kansas City for acceptance or rejection,
and if accepted, were purported to have been carried out by plaintiff

DICKSON v. UHLMANN GRAIN CO.
188

BUTLER,

205

J., dissenting.

like the statement in the opinion that the transactions
were "wagering contracts . . . cloaked with the forms of
law," may not be deemed to be findings of fact. They are
by telegraphic instructions emanating from Kansas City and by
pretended written confirmation of the execution of the order, which
pretended written confirmations would be mailed from Kansas City
to the customer.
9. That no records of the accounts of plaintiff with the defendants
were kept at Carrollton; that no moneyswere paid out to customers
in Carrollton, but remittances were mailed direct by check from
Kansas City. All statements, all pretended "P. & S's," all pretended
confirmations of the purported execution of purchases and sales, were
mailed to defendants from Kansas City. The Carrollton office merely
pretended to receive[d] and transmit[ted] purported orders to its
customers to Kansas City for pretended execution on the Grain Exchange designated in the customer's pretended order.
10. AU [none] of the transactions of purchase and sale executed
by plaintiff for defendants were fictitious transactions. None [all]
of them were actually executed between clearing members of the
Exchange where pretended to have been consummated. [one of whom
would be plaintiff acting for defendant]
11. In all [none] of the transactions [did] plaintiff bet with its
customers and took [or take] the other side of the deal.
[In no transaction did plaintiff and defendant settle the gain or
loss of defendant other than by ascertaining the actual difference between the price at which the commodity was bought and that at
which it was sold. 'In no transaction of purchase or sale did plaintiff and defendant fix a fictitious profit or loss to defendant by an
ascertainment of the difference between the contract price and the
market price -n the day fixed for delivery.]
12. In each transaction, after a pretended order to sell or purchase was purported to have been executed by plaintiff in behalf of
defendant, written confirmation thereof was immediately mailed by
plaintiff to defendant. Every written confirmation recited that"All transactions made by us for your account contemplate the
actual receipt and delivery of the property and payment therefor."
The court's findings did not cover other matters included in plaintiff's requests: the scope of its local agent's authority, whether the
orders were made and recorded in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the contract markets in which they were executed, and

the intent of the parties as to receipt,and delivery of wheat bought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

mere assertions in the nature of conclusions of law. The
effect or weight to be given them necessarily depends
upon the details and circumstances shown by the evidence.
Made as they were through a mistaken view of the applicable law, these declarations may not reasonably be
adopted here as findings that no such contracts were
made and that plaintiff and defendants indulged in the
make-believe denounced by § 4318.
There is no evidence of any violation of the bucketshop
laws, nor is there any suggestion that the transactions
shown can be held illegal except by force of the Missouri
statute. I do not disagree with the majority that the Federal Grain Futures Act has not superseded the statutes of
Missouri applicable to these transactions.
I am of opinion that the judgment of the district court
sh6uld stand reversed and that the judgment of the circuit
court of appeals should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

and

MR. JUSTICE CARDozo join in

this dissent.
MILLER v. ADERHOLD, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 138.

Argued January 9, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. One upon whom sentence in a criminal case has been suspended
may at any time request the court to pronounce judgment, and in
the absence of such request must be deemed to have consented to
the indefinite delay. P. 210.
2. In a criminal case in the federal district court an order for a
permanent suspension of sentence is void. Ex parte United States,
242 U. S. 27. P. 209.
3. Final judgment in a criminal case means sentence; and a void
order purporting permanently to suspend sentence is neither a final
nor a valid judgment. P. 210.

