OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

107; Geilinger v. Pilippi,133 U. S. 246; Brown v. Smart,
145 U. S. 454.
Nor is there any force in the .position taken by the defendant, that it was necessary, after the repeal in 1878 of the
bankruptcy act of 1867 and of the provisions of the Revised
Statutes of the United States in regard to bankruptcy, that
the insolvency statute of Massachusetts should have been reenacted in order to become operative. _T4 re Jiakrer, 140
U. S. 545. The repeal of the bankruptcy act of the United
States removed an obstacle to the operation of the insolvency
laws of the State, and did not render necessary their re&fnactmert.
Judgment affirmed.

IALLINGER v. DAVIS.
APPEAL FROM TEE cicuIt coUT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
TEE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 1100. Submitted November 7,1892. -Decided November 28, 1892.
A state statute, conferring upon one charged with crime the right to waive
a trial by jury and to elect to be tried by the court, and conferring
power upon the court to try the accused in such case, is not in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States.
When a prisoner, charged with the crime of murder committed in a State,
pleads guilty, the proper court of the State may, if its laws permit, proceed to inquire on evidence, without the intervention of a jury, in what
degree of murder the accused is guilty, and may find him to be guilty of
murder in the first degree, and may thereupon sentence him to death,
without thereby violc ting the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of Jhe United States that no State shAll " deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process f law."

Tins was a petition to the Circuit Court for a - rit of habeas
corpus. The facts were stated by this court as follows:
On the 30th day of 'May, A.D. 1892, the appellant, Edward
W. Hallinger, presented a petition to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey, wherein, and in
a copy of the record of the proceedings in the Court of Oyer

HALLINGER v. DAVIS.
Statement of the Case.

and Terminer and General Jail Delivery of the county of Hudson, State of New Jersey, attached to said petition as part
thereof, the following facts appeared:
Hallinger, the appellant, was on the 14th day of April, 1891,
indicted by the grand jury of Hudson County, for the murder
of one Mary Hallinger. On the 14th day of April, 1891, he
pleaded guilty, whereupon the court ordered the said plea of
guilty to be held in abeyance subject to said defendant's donsultation with counsel, then assigned for the purpose of consultation concerning said plea. On the 17th day of April, A.D.
1891, the defendant and his counsel again appeared and
insisted on said plea of guilty; whereupon the said court continued said assignment of counsel, and ordered said defendant
to be present on Tuesday, April 28, 1891, at an examination
to determine the degree of guilt under said plea to be then
and there had by said court. On the 28th day of April, 1891,
the court composed of Knapp and Lippincott, justices, in the
presence of the defendant and his counsel, heard evidence concerning the degree of defendant's guilt, and on the 12th day
of May, 1891, the court adjudged the defendant guilty of
murder in the first degree, and committed him to the custody
of the jailor of Hudson County to be confined in the common
jail of said county until Tuesday, the 30th day of June, A.D.
1891, on which day he was condemned to be hanged.
Article I, section 7,-of the constitution of the State of New
Jersey provides: "The right of a trial by jury shall remain
inviolate, but the legislature may authorize the trial of civil
suits, when the matter in dispute does not exceed fifty dollars,
by a jury of six men." Section 68 of the Criminal Procedure
Act of the State of New Jersey provides: "All murder wh'ch
shall be perpetrated by means of poison or by lying in wait,
or by any other kind of wilful, deliberate, and premeditated
killing, br which shall be committed in perpetrating or in
attempting to perpetrate any arson, rape, sodomy, robbery, or
burglary, shall be deemed murder in the first degree; and all
other kinds of murder shall be deemed murder of the second
degree; and the jury, before whom any person indicted for
murder shall be tried, shall, if they find such person guilty

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

thereof, designate by their verdict whether it be murder of
the first or second degree; but if such person shall be convicted on confession in open court, the court shall proceed by
examination of witnesses to determine the degree of the crime
and give sentence accordingly." In his said petition the
defendant alleged that said section 68 of the Criminal Procedure Act of New Jersey is in violation of the Constitution
of the United States and of the State of New Jersey, and
that his sentence and detention are illegal. He also stated
that, by virtue of the statutes and laws of the State of New
Jersey, no right of appeal in murder cases existed, and he had
no right to appeal to any higher court in the State to review
or annul said illegal judgment and seiftence.
On the 30th day of May," 1892, this application for a writ of
habeas cowpus was by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of New Jersey refused; from which judgment
this appeal was taken.
.A&. B. F. Rice for appellant.
The defendant cannot waive his constitutional rights in so
material a point as trial by jury. If he could he could only
do so directly, and not by implication.
A plea of guilty is not a waiver of a right to a trial by jury.
The most that can be said of it is that it dispenses with such
trial. But a plea of guilty to a crime that has degrees does
not dispense with the necessity for a jury trial to ascertain
the degree. The plea of guilty has never been held to apply
to the first degree, or any other, unless the defendant designates the degree to which his plea applied.
In case the statute had provided that the jury before whom
the defendant was tried should, if they found him guilty, say
so and no more, and that thereupon the court should upon the
evidence given before the jury, designate whether it be murder in the first or second degree, would that be giving the
defendant a trial by a jury? To make it a trial by jury every
material fact in the case must be decided by the jury, and it
is a very material fact that settles the degree of the crime.

HALLLNGER v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, if such a statute as isabove described would not be
constitutional because it did not provide for a trial by jury,
wherein is the statute that allows the court to designate
the degree of the crime upon a plea of guilty in any better
attitude ?
The plea of guilty is no stronger than a verdict of guilty.
Hence so much of the statute of New Jersey as provides
that the judges may designate the degree in case of confession
is unconstitutional and void, and the appellant in this case has
been sentenced upon a state of facts found by the court which
were not confessed by the appellant or passed on by a jury.
Wartner v. State, 102 Indiana, 51; Lemons v. State, 4 W. Va.
755; Williams v. State, 12 Ohio St. 622; State v. Eolt,90 N.
Car. 749; Giles v. State, 23 Texas App. 281; Robbins v. State,
8 Ohio St. 131; Cancemi v. People, 18 N. Y. 128.
The defendant is without remedy in the courts of the State
where he was tried.
The statute gives the defendant in a capital case no right of
appeal, and in case of confession no appeal, (apparently,) at all,
certainly not that will stay execution.
We respectfully submit that the appellant is held without
due process of law and ought to be discharged.
.Afr.iC. H. Winfield for-appellee.
MR. JUsTICE SHIRAs, after stating" the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is contended on behalf of the appellant that the judgment
and sentence of the Court of Oyer and Terminer of Hudson
County, New Jersey, whereby he is deprived of his liberty and
condemned to be hanged, are void, because the Act of Criminal Procedure of the State of New Jersey, in pursuance of
the provisions of which such judgment and sentence were
rendered, is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, which is in these words:
"1Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of law." Such repugnancy is
supposed to be found in the proposition that a verdict by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

jury is an essential part in prosecutions for felonies, without
which the accused cannot be said to have been condemned by
"due process of law;" and that any act of a state legislature
providing for the trial of felonies otherwise than by a common
law jury, composed of twelve men, would be unconstitutional
and void.
Upon the question of the right of one charged with crime to
waive a trial by jury, and elect to be tried by the court, when
there is a positive legislative enactment, giving the right so to
do, and conferring power on the court to try the accused in
such a case, there are numerous decisions by state courts, upholding the validity of such proceeding. Dailey v. The State,
4 Ohio St. 57 ; Dilingham,v. Tlie State, 5 Ohio St. 280; People
v. Nroll, 20 California, 164; State v. Worden, 46 Connecticut,
349; State v. Albee, 61 -N'. 1. 423, 428.
If a recorded confession of every material averment of an
indictment puts the confessor upon the country, the institution
of jury trial and the legal effect and nature of a plea of guilty
have been very imperfectly understood, not only by the authors
of the Constitution and their successors down to the present
time, but also by all the generations of men who have lived
under the common law. It is only necessary, in order to
determine whether the legislature transcended its power in
the act, to inquire whether it is prohibited by the Constitution.
The right of the accused to a trial was not affected, and we
can, therefore, have no doubt that the proceeding to ascertain
the degree of the crime where, in an indictment for murder,
the defendant enters a plea of guilty, is constitutional and
valid. Statutes of like or similar import have been enacted
in many of the States, and have never been held unconstitutional. On the other hand, they have been repeatedly and
uniformly held to be constitutional.
In Ohio the statute is: "If the offence charged is murder
and the accused b. convicted by confession in open court, the
court shall examine the witnesses and determine the degree of
the crime, and pronounce sentence accordingly." In Dailey
v. T/ie State, 4 Ohio St. 57, the statute was held to be constitutional and a sentence thereunder valid.

IIALLINGER v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The statute of California in relation to this subject is in the
identical language of the statute of New Jersey. In PeVle v.
.Voll, 20 California, 164, the defendant on arraignment pleaded
guilty. Thereupon witnesses were examined to ascertain the
degree of the crime. The court found it to be murder in the
first degree and sentenced him accordingly. One of the errors
assigned was that, after the plea of guilty by the defendant,
the court did not call a jury to hear evidence and determine
the degree of guilt. The Supreme Court held: "The proceeding to determine the degree of the crime of murder after a
plea of guilty is not a trial. No issue was joined upon which
there could be a trial. There is no provision of the Constitution which prevents a defendant from pleading guilty to the
indictment instead of having a trial by jury. If he elects to
plead guilty to the indictment, the provision of the statute
for determining the degree of the guilt, for the purpose of
fixing the punishment, does not deprive him of any right of
trial by jury."
In Connecticut, the act of 1874: provided that in all prosecutions the party accused, if he should so elect, might be tried
by the court instead of by the jury, and that, in such cases,
the court should have full power to try the case and render
judgment. In The State v. Worden, 46 Connecticut, 349, this
statute was held not to conflict with the provisions of the state
constitution, that every person accused "shall have a speedy
trial by an impartial jury, and that -the right of trial by jury
shall remain inviolate."
And, of course, the decision in the present case, of the highest court of the State of New Jersey having jurisdiction, that
the statute is constitutional and valid, sufficiently and finally
establishes that proposition, unless the proceedings in the case
did not constitute "due process of law" within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
That phrase is found in both the Fifth and the Fourteenth
Amendments. In the Fifth Amendment the provision is only
a limitation of the power of the general government; it has
no application to the legislation of the several Sates. Barron

OCTOBER TE R1,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243. But in the Fourteenth Amendment
the provision is extended in terms to the States. The decisions already cited sufficiently show that the~state courts hold
that trials had under the provisions of statutes authorizing
persons accused of felonies to waive a jury trial, and to submit
the degree of their guilt to the determination of the courts, are
"due process of law." While these decisions are not conclusive upon this court, yet they are entitled to our respectful
consideration.
The meaning and effect of this clause have already received
the frequent attention of this court. In .3furray v. lloboken
Lancd aznd Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, the historical and
critical meaning of these words was examined. The question
involved was the validity of an act of Congress giving a summary remedy, by a distress warrant, against the property of
an official defaulter. It was contended that such a proceeding
was an infringement of the Fifth Amendment, but this court
held that, "tested by the common and statute law of England
prior to the emigration of our ancestors, and by the laws of
many of the States at the time of the adoption of this Amendment, the proceedings authorized by the act of Congress cannot be denied to be due process of law."
In lValker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90, it was held that a trial
by jury in suits at common law, pending in the state courts, is
not a privilege or immunity of national citizenship which the
States are forbiddeA by the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States to abridge. The court, by
Waite, C. T., said: "A State cannot deprive a person of his
property without due process of law; but this does not necessarily imply that all trials in the state courts affecting the
proper.y of persons must be by jury. This requirement of the
Cofstitution is met if the trial is had according to the settled
course of judicial proceedings. Due process of law is process
due according to the law of the land. This process in the
States is regulated by the law of the State."
In Davidson, v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.97, an assessment of
certain real estate in New Orleans for draining the swamps oe
that city was resisted, and brought into this court by a writ

LALINGER v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana. In
the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Miller, will
be found an elaborate discussion of this provision as found in
Magna Charta and in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments
o the Constitution of the United States. The conclusion
reached by the court was that "it is not possible to hold that

a party has, without due process of law, been deprived of his
property, when, as regards the issues affecting it, he has, by
the laws of the State, a fair trial in a court of justice, accord-

ing to the modes of proceeding applicable to such a case." Mr.
Justice Bradley, while concurring in the judgment and in the
general tenor of the reasoning by which it was supported, criticised the language of the court as "narrowing the scope of inquiry as to what is due process of law more than it should do."
However, in the very next case in wbich the court had

occasion to consider the provision in question, Mr. Justice
Bradley was himself the organ of the court in declaring that
"there is nothing in the Constitution to prevent any State
from adopting,auy syste&rof laws or judicature it sees fit for

all or any part of its territory.

If the State of New York,

for example, should see fit to adopt the civil law and its

method of procedure for New York City and the surrounding
counties, and the common law and its method of procedure
for the rest of the State, there is nothing in the Constitution
of the United States to prevent its doing so. This would not,
of itself, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment,
be a denial to any person f the equal protection of,the laws.
If every person residing or being in either portion of the State
should be accorded the equal protection of the laws prevailing there, he could not justly complain of a violation of the
clause referred to. For, as before said, it has respect to persons and classes of persons.' It means that no person or class
of persons shall be denied the same protection of the laws
which is enjoyed by other persons or other classes in the same
place and under like circurilstances. The Fourteenth Amendment does not profess to secure to all persons in the United
States the benefit of the same laws and the same remedies.
Great diversities in these respects may exist in two States
VOL.

CXLvi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

separated only by an imaginary line. On one side of this line
there may be a right of trial by jury, and on the other side no
such riglit. Each State _prescribes its own modes of judicial
Where part of a State is thickly settled,
proceedings. .
and another part has but few inhabitants, it may be desirable
to have different systems of judicature for the two portionstrial by jury in one, for example, and not in the other....
It would be an unfortunate restriction of the powers of the
state government if it could not, in its discretion, provide for
these various exigencies." 3issouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 51, 52.
In Ex parte Wall, 107 U. S. 265, it was held that a proceeding, whereby an attorney at law was stricken from the roll for
contempt, was within the jurisdiction of the court of which he
was a member, and was not an invasion -of the constitutional
provision that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, but that the proceeding
itself was due process of law. The dissent of Mr. Justice
Field in that case dia not impugn the view of the court as to
what constituted due process of law, but was put upon the
proposition that'an attorney at law cannot be summarily disbarred for an indictable offence not connected with his professional conduct.
One of the latest and most carefully considered expressions
of this court is found in the case of flurtado v. California,
110 U. S. 516, 53-4. The question in the case was the validity
of a provisioni in the constitution of the State of California,
authorizing prosecutions for felonies by information, after
examination and commitment by a magistrate, vithout indictment by a grand jury.
In pursuance of that provision and of legislation in accordance with it, Hurtado was charged in an information with
the crime of murder, aqnd, without any investigation of the
cause by a grand jury, was tried, found guilty and condemned
to death. From this judgment an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of California., which affirmed the judgment.
This court, in reviewing and affirming the judgment of the
Supreme Court of California, said: "We are to construe this
phrase-due process of law - in the Fourteenth Amendment

HALLINGE]lI

v. DAVIS.

Op~inion of the Court.

by the usus loquendi of the Constitution itself. The same
words are contained ih the Fifth Amendment. That article
makes specific and express provision for perpetuating the institution of the grand jury, so far as relates to prosecutions for
the more aggravated crimes under the laws of the United
States. It declares that 'no person shall be held to answer
for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, .
.
nor be deprived
of life, liberty or property without due process of law.'
"According to a recognized canon of interpretation, especially applicable to formal and solemn instruments of constitutional law, we are forbidden to assume, without clear reason to
the contrary, that any part of this most important amendment
is superfluous. The natural and obvious inference is, that in the
sense of the Constitution, 'due process of law' was not meant
or intended to include, ex vi M2-mini, the institution and procodure of a grand jury in any case. The conclusion is equally
irresistible, that when the same phrase was employed in the
Fourteenth Amendment to restrain the action of the States, it
was used in the same sense and with no greater extent ; and
that if in the adoption of that Amendment it had been part of
its purpose to perpetuate the institution of the grand jury in
all the States, it would have embodied, as did the Fifth
Amendment, express declarations to that effect.- Due process
of law in the latter refers to that law of the land which
derives its authority from the legislative powers conferred
upon Congress by-the Constitution of the United States, exercised within the limits therein prescribed, and interpreted
according to the principles of the common law. In the Fourteenth Amendment, by parity of reason, it refers- to the law
of the land in each State, which derives its authority from the
inherent and reserved powers of the State, exerted within the
limits of those fundamental principles of. liberty and justice
which lie at the base of all our civil and. political institutions,
and the greatest security for which resides in the right of the
people to make their own laws and alter them at their pleasure." The passage from the opinion of Justice Bradley in
Afiseouri v. Lewis, above cited, is then quoted with approval.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Case of .emmler, reported in 136 U. S. 436, 4,49, a
fruitless effort was made to induce this court to hold that a
statute of the State of New York, providing that punishment
of death should be inflicted by an electrical apparatus, was
void under the Fourteenth Amendment, and it was said: "The
enactment of this statute was in itself within the legitimate
sphere of the legislative power of the State, and in the observance of thlose general rules prescribed by our systems of
jurisprudence; and the legislature of the State of New York
determined that it did not inflict cruel and unusual punishment, and its courts have sustained that determination. We
cannot perceive that the State has thereby abridged the privileges or immunities of the petitioner, or deprived him of due
process of law."
Applying the principles of these decisions to the case before,
us, we are readily brought to the conclusion that the appellant, in voluntarily availing himself of the provisions of the
statute and electing to plead guilty, was deprived of no right
or privilege within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment. The trial seems to have been conducted in strict accordance with the forms prescribed by the constitution and laws
of the State, and with special regard to the rights of the accused
thereunder. The court refrained from at once accepting his
plea of guilty, assigned him counsel, and twice adjourned, for
a period of several days, in order that he might be fully
advised of the truth, force and effect of his plea of guilty.
Whatever may be thought of the wisdom of departing, in
capital cases, from time-honored procedure, there is certainly
nothing in the present record to enable this court to perceive
that the rights of the appellant, so far as the laws and Constitfition of the United States are concerned, have been in
anywise infringed.
Other propositions are discussed in 'the brief of the appellant's counsel, but they are either without legal foundation or
suggest questions that are not subject to our revision.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
JusTicE HI~.&A assents to the conclusion, but does not
agree in all the reasoning of the opinion.

