OCTOBER TERM, 1892
Syllabus.

for the guns involved. In the present case, the dutiable classification of the gunstocks imported must be ascertained by ar
examination of them in the condition in which they are im
ported. Worthington v. Robbins, 139 U. S. 337.
Reference is made by the counsel for the United States to
the provision of § 2 of the act of January 29, 1795, (1 Stat.
411,) which reads as follows: "Where any article is, by any
law of the United States, made subject to the payment of
duties, the parts thereof, when imported separately, shall be
subject to the payment of the same rate of duties," as not
having been repealed. In 1 Stat. 411, opposite the act is the
That provision is not embodied in the
word "[Obsolete.]"
we think it was limited to the case of
and
Revised Statutes,
duties then imposed by law, and did not Apply to duties imposed by subsequent tariff, acts. Tariff acts passed subsequently to the act of 1795 have provided that the duties theretofore imposed by law on imported merchandise should
cease and determine. If the pr.ovision of the act of 1795 had
been still in force when the tariff act of 1890 was enacted, it
would have been wholly unnecessary in -the latter act to irpose a duty on parts of articles, as well as on the articles
themselves, in cases where it was deemed proper to impose
such duty upon parts.
This appeal was prosecuted as against the firm, but this
defect may be cured by amendment, and the motion to that
effect is granted. .Estisv. Trabue, 128 U. S.225.
Judgment ajflrmed.

CROSS v. BURKE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
1No.1105. Argued November 1, 1892.-

Decided NDvember 14,1892.

This court has no jurisdiction over judgments of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia on habeas corpus.
The statutes op this subject reviewed.

CROSS v. BURKE.
Opinion of the Court.
Wales v. Whitney, 114 U. S. 564, qualified and explained.
This court does not consider itself bound by expressions touchiug its jurisdiction found in an opinion in a case inwhich there was no contest on
that point.
WiLmA~x
D. CROSS was found guilty for the second time
upon an indictment for murder in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia holding a criminal term and sentenced
to death, the time of his execution being fixed for January 22,
1892. He prosecuted an appeal to the court in general term,
which, on January 12 1892, finding no error in the record,
affirmed the judgment rendered at the criminal term, and on
January 21, 1892, a writ of error from this court was allowed
by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the District,
citation was signed and served, and the time for filing the
record enlarged. On the same day the execution of the sentence of death was postponed until the 10th of June, 1892, by
order entered by the court in general term.
That writ of error was dismissed May 16, 1892, Cross v.
United States, 145 U. S. 571. May 28, 1892, Cross filed his
petition in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for
a writ of habeas eorpus, which petitioh was heard in the first
instance by that court in general term. The applicatiqn was
denied June 4, 1892, and the petition dismissed, 20 Wash.
Law Rep. 389. On June 8, 1892, the court in general term
allowed an appeal to this court.

_Mr. C. Z. Smith and .M. Joseph Shillingtonfor appellant.
.r. Solicitor General for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTI E FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
It was not denied in the Supreme Court of the District that
the time and place of execution are not parts of a sentence
of death unless made so by statute. H-olden v. .innesota,
137 U. S. 483, 495; Schwab v. Berggren. 143 U. S. 442, 451.
But it was insisted that in the District of Columbia the time
has been made a part of the sentence by section 845 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the Revised Statutes of the District, which is in these words:
"To enable any person convicted by the judgment of the
court, to apply for a writ of error, in all cases when the judgment shall be death, or confinement in the penitentiary, the
court shall, upon application of the party accused, postpone
the final execution thereof to a reasonable time beyond the
next term of the court, not exceeding in any case thirty days
after the end of such term." And it was contended that the
time fixed by such a postponement is to be regarded as a time
fixed by statute, and that the power of the court to set a day
for execution is thereby exhausted.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, speaking
by James, T., held that "the subject-matter dealt with in this
provision was not the powers of the court at all; it related
simply to a right of the accused in a particular instance, that
is, a right to a postponement of the time of executing his sentence in case he should apply for it in order to have a review
of alleged error. With the exception of this restriction in the
matter of fixing a day for execution, the power of the court
was not made the subject of legislation, but was left as it had
been at common law. The whole effect of the statute was to
declare that, in case of an application for the purpose of
obtaining a review on error, the day of execution should not
be set so as to cut off the opportunity for review and possible
reversal;" that the power of the court to set a day for execution was not exhadsted by its first exertion; and that if the
time for execution had passed for any cause, the court could
make a new order.
We have held that this court has no jurisdiction to grant a
writ of error to review the judgments of the Supreme Court
of the District in criminal cases, either under the judiciary
act of March 3, 1891, (26 Stat. 826, c. 517); or under the act
of Congress of February 6, 1889, (25 Stat.' 655, c_ 113,) or any
other; In Pe _Meath, Petitioner,144 U. S. 92; Cross v. United
States, 145 U. S. 571. Rave we jurisdiction over the judgments of that court on "habeascorpus ?
Under the fourteenth section of the judiciary act of 1789,
I Stat. 73, c. 20, the courts of the United States and either of

CROSS v. BURKE.
Opinion of the Court.

the Justices of the Supreme Court, as well as the Judges of the
District Courts, had power to grant writs of /abeas corpus for
the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment; but
this extended in no case to prisoners in jail, unless in custody
under or by color of the authority of the United States, or
committed for trial before some court of the United States, or
necessary to be brought into court to testify.
By the seventh section of the act of M-larch 2, 1833, 4 Stat.
634, c. 57, the power was extended *toall cases of prisoners in
jail or confinement, when committed or confined on or by any
authority or law for any act done or omitted to be done in
pursuance of a law of the United States, or any order, process,
or decree of any judge or court thereof.
By the act of August 29, 1842, 5 Stat. 539, c. 257, the power
was further extended to issue the writ when the prisoner, being
a subject or citizen of a foreign State and domiciled therein,
"shall be committed or confined, or in custody, under or by
any authority or law, or process founded thereon, of the
United States, or of any one of them, for or on account of any
act done or omitted under any alleged right, title, authority,
privilege, protection, or exemption, set up or claimed under
the commission, or order, or sanction, of any foreign state or
sovereignty, the validity and effect whereof depend upon the
law of nations, or under color thereof."
By the first section of the act of February 5, 1867, 14 Stat.
385, c. 28, it was declared that the courts of the United States
and the several Justices and Judges thereof should have power
"to grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases where any person
may be restrained of his or her liberty in violation of the
Constitution or of any treaty or law of the United States."
And it was provided that." from the final decision of any
judge, justice, or court inferior to the Circuit Court, an. appeal
may be taken to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district in which. said cause is heard, and from the judgment
of said Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of the United
States."
March 27, 1868, an act was passed, 15 Stat. 44, c.. 34, to the
effect that "so much of the act approved February five, eigh-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

teen hundred and sixty-seven, entitled ' An act to amend "An
act to establish the judicial courts of the United States,"
approved September twenty-fourth, seventeen hundred and
eighty-nine,' as authorizes an appeal from the judgment of the
Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of the United States, or
the exercise of any such jurisdiction by said Supreme Court on
appeals which have been or may hereafter be taken, be, and
the same is, hereby repealed." Ex _parte fc Card&k, 6 Wall.
318; 7 Wall. 506; .Exparte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85.
These various provisions were carried forward into §§ 751
to 766 of the IRevised Statutes.
By section 763 it was provided that an appeal to the Circuit
Court might be taken from decisions on habeas cowpus. (1) In
the case of any person alleged to be restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution or of any law or treaty of the
United States. (2) In the case of the subjects or citizens of
foreign States, as hereinbefore set forth. And by section 764
an appeal to the Supreme Court from the Circuit Court was
provided for, but limited to "the cases described in the last
clause of the preceding section."
The Revised Statutes of the United States and the Revised
Statutes of the District of Columbia were approved June 22,
1874. Section 846 of the latter, which was taken from section
11 of the act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 764, c. 91, is as follows: "Any final judgment, order, or decree of the Supreme
Court of the District may be re-examined, and reversed or
affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States upon writ
of error or appeal, in the same cases and in like manner as
provided by law in reference to the final judgments, orders or
decrees of the Circuit Courts of the United States." By act
of Congress of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 437, c. 353, section 764
of the Revised Statutes was amended in effect by striking out
the words, "the last clause of," so that an appeal might be
taken in all the cases described in section 763.
It was to this" act that Mr. Justice Miller referred in Wales
v. Whitney, 114 U. S. 564, 565, as restoring "the appellate
jurisdiction of this court in habeas corpus cases from decisions
of the Circuit Courts, and that this necessarily included juris-

CROSS v. BURKE.
Opinion of the Court.

diction over similar judgments of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia." But the question of jurisdiction does
not appear to have been contested in Wales v. Whitney, and
where this is so the court does not consider itself bound by the
view expressed. United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, 317;
United States v. .ore, 3 Cranch, 159, 172. We have pointed
out in In re Ieath, 144: U. S. 92, that to give to this local
legislation, extending the appellate jurisdiction of this court
to the District of Columbia, a construction which would make
it include all subsequent legislation touching our jurisdiction
over Circuit'Courts of the United States, is quite inadmissible,
(Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet: 524;) and that no reference
was made in Wales v. Whitney, to the act of Congress approved on the same third of March, 1885, entitled "An act
regulating appeals from the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia and the Supreme Courts of the several Territories,"
23 Stat. 443, c. 355. The first section of this act provided
"That no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed
from any judgment or decree in any suit at law or in equity
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or in the
Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United States,
unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars;" and the second section,
that the first section should not apply to any case "wherein is
involved the validity of any patent or copy-right, or in which
is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of or
authority exercised under the United States; but in all such
cases an appeal or writ of error may be brought without regard to the sum or value in dispute."
The act does not apply in either section to any criminal
case, Farnsworth v. Mlontana, 129 U. S. 104; United States
v. Sanges, 144 U. S.310, but is applicable to all judgments or
decrees in suits at law or in equity in which there is a pecuniary matter in dispute, and it inhibits any appeal or writ of
error therefrom except as stated. Clearly, the act of March
3, 1885, amending § 764 of the Revised Statutes, in respect of
Circuit Courts, cannot be held to give a jurisdiction in respect
of the Supreme Court of the District denied by the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

March 3, 1885, relating to the latter court. It is well settled
that a proceeding in habeas corpus is a civil and not a criminal
proceeding. Parnsworth v. Montana, ubi supra; Ex )art,
Tom Tong, 108 U. S. 556; Zertz v. 1Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487.
The application here was brought by petitioner to assert the
civil right of personal liberty against the respondent, who is
holding him in custody as a criminal, and the inquiry is into
his right to liberty notwithstanding his condemnation.
In order to give this court jurisdiction under the act of
March 3, 1885, last referred to, the matter in dispute must be
money; or some right, the value of which in money can be calculated and ascertained. lfturtz v. lfqfttt, ubi supra. And as
in this case the matter in dispute has no money value, the result is that no appeal lies.
It may also be noted that under the Tudiciary Act of March
3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, appeals from decrees of Circuit Courts
on habeas corpus can no longer be taken directly to this court
in cases like that at bar', but only in the classes mentioned in
the fifth section of that act. Lau Ow Bew v. United States,
144 U. S. &[; Horner v. United States, 143 U. S. 570.
Appeal dismissed.

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER AND LAKE
MICHIGAN RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO I THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 25. Argued and submitted November 2, 1892. -Decided

November 14, 1892.

If a bill to set aside a foreclosure sale of a railroad under a mortgage, on
the ground of fraud and collusion, be not filed until ten years after the
sale, a presumption of ]aches arises which it is incumbent on the plain-

tiff to rebut:
The tendency of the courts is, in such cases, to hold the plaintiff to a rigid
compliance with the law, which demands not only that he should have

been ignorant of the fraud, but should have used reasonable diligence to
inform.himself of all the facts; and especially is this the case where the

