OCTOBER TERMA,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

fault upon its part, were obliged to pay the value of this lot
a second time.
The judgment of the court below must be,
.Revesed, and the case remarded, with directions to dismiss
the Petition.

CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN1 RAILWAY
COMPANY v. OSBORNE.
SAME 'v. JUNOD.
ORIGINAL.
Nos. 1238, 1239.

Submitted November 21, 1892. -Decided December 5, 1890.

In each of these cases defendant in error sued plaifitift" in error under the
Interstate Commerce act, to recover alleged overcharges on the transportation of corn, and recovered judgment, to each of which judgments
defendant sued out a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The cases being heard there the judgment in each was reversed, upon the
ground that the jury should have been instructed to find a verdict for
the defendant, and the cases were remanded for further proceedings in
accordance therewith. On petitions for writs of certiorari to the Court
of Appeals to bring up the records and proceedings, Held, that the petitions should be denied.

TIIRSE were petitions for writs of certiorari. The petitions
set forth that the petitioners had commenced suit in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Iowa to recover
from the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company
damages for certain violations of the Interstate Commerce
law of February 4, 1$87, 24 Stat. 379, c. 104; that such proceedings took place therein that the plaintiffs recovered judgments against the defendant; that the defendant sued out
writs of error to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals;
that a hearing was had there; tfhat 'the judgments were
reversed; and that the court held that on the facts as they
appeared the iurv should have been instructed to find a

JOY v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
Statement of the Case.

verdict for the defendant, and reversed the judgment of the
court below, and remanded the cases for further proceedings
in accordance with its opinion. The petitioners prayed this
court to issue writs of certiorarito the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the eighth judicial circuit, commanding
that court to certify to this court the record of its proceedings
in the causes so pending and determined in that court. Copies
of the record of the said causes in said Circuit Court of Appeals were filed and made a part of the applications.
.Mr. C. C. IVourse for the petitioners.

.Xr. W. C. Goudy opposing.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The petitions for writs of certiorarito
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the eighth circuit are denied.
.McLish v. Rof, 141 U..S. 661; Rice v. Sanger, 144 U. S. 197;
Meagher v. Afinnesota Thresher Manu.facturing Co., 145
I. S. 608.
Denied.

JOY v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 1014. Submitted November 28, 1892.-Decided December 5, 1892.

This court has no jurisdiction of an appeal from a judgment of a Circuit
Court remanding to a state court a cause which had been improperly
removed from it.
MOTION to dismiss. On behalf of the motion it was stated
that the suit was originally brought in the Court of Common
Pleas of Lucas County, Ohio, by the Adelbert College against
the Toledo, Wabash and Western Railroad Company and
other defendants, including the -plaintiffs appellants; that on
the 2d of December, 1890, petitions for its removal to the
Circuit Court of the United States were filed by each of the
present appellants on the ground that, "from prejudice or local

