OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

law," as well as "tend to defeat the ends of justice," in the
national tribunals. The necessary conclusion is that the provisions referred to, in the practice act of the State of Texas,
have no application to actions in the courts of the United
States.
Judgment 7eversed, and case 'emanded with directions to
'render judgment for the defendant uipon the demurrer
to the _petition.

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 39.

Argued November 7,1892.-Decided

November 21, 1892.

an inventor applied, September 3d, 1881, for letters patent for an " improvement in the construction of cable railways," the invention consisting in the employment of a connecting tie for the rails, and supports
for the slot irons, by which both are rigidly supported from the tie and
united to each other, the ties or frames being embedded in concrete, and
the rails, the slot irons and the tube being thus connected in the same
structure. The invention was conceived in 1876, and used by the inventor in constructing a cable road, which was put into use in April,
1878, and of which he was superintendent until after lie applied for the
patent, which was granted in August, 1882; Held, on the facts,
(1) The use of the invention was not experimental;
(2) The inventor reserved no future control over it;
(3) He had no expectation of making any material changes in it, and
never suggested or made a change after the structure went into
use, and never made an examination with a view of seeing whether
it was defective, or could be improved;
(4) The use was such a public use as to defeat the patent;
(5) The case of .Elizabeth v. .Pavement Co., 97 U. S.126, considered, and
the present case held not to fall within its principles.

Tnis was a suit in equity, brought July 12, 1886, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New Ycrk, by Henry Root against the Third Avenue Rail-

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE' RAILROAD.
Statement of the Case.

road Company, founded on the alleged infringement of letters
patent No. 262,126, granted August 1, 1882, to the plaintiff,
for an "improvement in the construction of cable railways,"
on an application-filed September 3, 1881.
The specification of the. patent said: "My invention relates
to cable railways, and it consists in the employment of a connecting tie for the rails, and supports for the slot irons, by
which both.are rigidly supported from the tie and united to
each other. In combination with this construction I employ
a substratum 6f concrete or equivalent material, which will
set or solidify and unite the whole into a continuous rigid
structure, no part of which is liable to be displaced from its
relation to the other, and also provide a support for the roadway. Previous to my invention all cable railways bad been
.onstructed of iron ribs of the form of the tube, set at suitable
intervals, to which the slot iron or timber, as the case may be,
was bolted and the spaces between these ribs filled with wood,
to form a continuous tube. Outside and independent of this
tube the rails were laid, supported on short ties or other
foundations, and were connected horizontally with the iron
ribs by short bolts or rods, but were liable to settle by the
undermining of their foundation without regard to the tube
or the other rail of the track. This would frequently occur!
by the renewal of the paving outside of the track, the introduction of house connections with the main sewer, or other
disturbances of the street. This settling would cause great
inconvenience, as the gripping apparatus, which is carried by
the rail through the medium of the car or dummy, must-travel.
in a fixed position in the tube, thus making a frequent adjustment of the rails to the tube necessary. The space between
the rails and sides of the tube was filled with sand, which
could not be securely confined, as the joints in the tube were
liable to open by settling, so as to require a frequent relaying
of the paving or planking and making the whole insecure and
expensive to maintain. In my invention the whole forms a
single rigid structure."
The following were the drawings of the patent, Figure 1
being a cross-section and Figure 2 a perspective view:

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The specification said: "A is the main tie, bent so as to
embrace the tube, and it has fastened to .the ends suifably
formed plates or chairs B, to which the rails G are- fastened
or, if stringers are used, they may be fastened directly tb the

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD.
Statement of the Case.

ties. The ties may be of various shapes, but in this case I
have used old T-rail turned bottom up, with but one curve or
bend, as this requires but one heat and is thus cheaper. C are
upright supports for the slot ironsj having one end secured to
the tie at points each side of the bend, sufficiently separated
to form the necessary width for the tube. D are tie-rods, connecting said supports with the main ties or frames, through the
chairs, rails or stringers, as the case may be. The rods D
may be fixed or may be screw-bolts having two nuts at one
end for the adjustment of the slot irons to or from each other
during construction, or other equivalent means may be employed. E is the concrete, in which the ties or frames are
embedded at suitable distances to support the rails and slot
irons, which form the top of the tube. This concrete forms a
support for the iron-work, the bottom and sides of the tube, and
a foundation for the paving F, which fills the space between the
rails and slot iron, thus forming an even and durable roadway,
which cannot settle below the level of the rails or slot irons or
cause a side pressure on the tube, as is the case where the roadway is supported on sand or other independent foundation.
As nearly all the weight of the traffic is on the rails, the tendency of the rails to go down is resisted by a deep girder, of
which the bent tie forms the top and this continuous mass of
concrete forms the bottom. I am aware that concrete, as a
material for foundations, underground sewers and conduits,
has long been well known, and that concrete, brick-work or
ironstone pipe might be used to form the tube between the
iron ribs, of the well-known construction, without any particular invention, as these materials are as well known as wood,
but it would be still subjected to all the danger of unequal
settlement, and the short tie and stringer of wood require frequent renewal and adjustmenit to the level of the tube. It will
be seen that a distinguishing feature of my invention is the
connecting of the rails in the same structure as the slot irons
and the tube, so that all the parts are maintained in their relative position, and whatever may occur to alter the place of
one will have no effect unless the change is sufficient to affect
the whole structure." There are seven claims in the patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The answer set up in defence a denial of the allegation of
the bill that the alleged invention was not in public use or on
sale for more than two years prior to the application for the
patent; and it alleged that the invention had been in public
and profitable use in the United States for more than two
years before the date of t ie application. It also set up want
of novelty and non-infringement.
There was a replication to th6 answer, proofs were taken,
and the case was brought to a hearing before the Circuit
Court, held by Judge Wallace; and a decree was entered dismissing the bill. From that decree the plaintiff appealed.
The opinion of the Circuit Court, found in 37 Fed. Rep. 673,
passed upon a single question. The invention was put into
use on the California Street railroad, a cable road in the city of
San Francisco, on April 9, 1878, the road having been built
by the plaintiff and put into regular operation at that time,
and, as constructed, having embodied in it the invention described in the patent. The defendant contended that such use
was a public use of the patented invention more than two
years before the application, and that, therefore, the, patent
was invalid. The plaintiff contended, below and here, that
such use was an experimental use, and that the application was
filed within two years after the plaintiff became satisfied that
his invention was a practical success.
Section 4886 of the Revised Statutes, which was in force
when this patent was applied for and issued, enacts that a
patent may be obtained when the invention has not been "in
public use or on sale for more than two years prior to the application" ; and ยง 4920 provides that it may be pleaded and
proved as a defence, in a suit at law or in equity on the patent,
that the invention "had been in public use or on sale in this
country for more than two years before" the application, or
had been abandoned to the public.
From the time the cable road mentioned was put into operation, no change or modification was made in its plan or its details. In the summer of 1876, between May and the 1st 'of
September, the plaintiff conceived the invention., Early in that
year certain persons in California obtained a franchise for the

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD.
Statement of the Case.

construction of a wire cable road on California Street in San
Francisco, and the plaintiff was led to believe that he would
be called upon, as an engineer, to construct the road. He
immediately commenced studying up the matter, to be prepared to recommend a plan of construction, whenever called
upon. He testified that he deemed it necessary in a cable road,
to get a smooth, even roadway and track, and the tube or tunnel-way for the cable and its carrying machinery strong enough
to resist any tendency toward the closing of the slot, to provide
for the grip-shank, and to make a structure as a whole so permanent and durable as to stand the wear and jar of heavy
street traffic, as well as of the car traffic which it was to
carry; and that, for that purpose, he deemed it necessary to
have a rib or yoke, with connections to the two rail and the
two slot irons, so as to connect them permanently, such yoke
to be embedded in and supported by a surroundihig mass of
concrete to form a support and foundation for the ribs or
yokes, the bottom and sides of the cable tube or tunnel, and a
foundation for the paving of the roadway. He said that he
explained this invention to several persons prior to September
2, 1876, and on that day discussed the subject and explained
the invention in a general way at a meeting of the directors
of the proposed road. Between that time and January 1,
1877, he made a niodel containing two of the ribs, with an
outside casing and cover, and had the space between filled in
with concrete, encasing the skeleton ribs and forming "the
shut section " of the completed track and tube.
His invention was adopted by the projectors of the railroad,
and active work was commenced upon the structure in July,
1877. The road cost, with the equipment, $418,00, and is
about two miles in length, the road-bed and tunnel construction having cost about $225,000. From April 9, 1878, it has
been in regular and successful use as a street railroad, carrying
passengers for pay. The plaintiff was superintendent of the
road from that time until the date of his application for the
patent, and afterwards until 1883.
In explanation of his delay in applying for the patent, he testified that before he began the construction of the road, one

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

of the projectors expressed a doubt in regard to the durability
of such a structure, and a fear that the jar of street traffic,
as well as that of the cars, would in time loosen the ribs and
separate them from the surrounding concrete, and the structure
would thus fail; that doubts were expressed also by others;
that, while the plaintiff believed that there was more than an
even chance of its proving a durable and desirable structure,
he still had some doubt in his own mind, which was somewhat
increased by the doubts expressed to him by others, in whom
he had confidence; that, as causes which would contribute to
the destruction of the road, there were (1) the moving of cars
over a rail connected to iron-work without the intervention of
any wood; (2) the street traffic of trucks and teams, to which
such a structure would necessarily be exposed; (3) the changes
of temperature; and (4)the effect of time, and the danger of
water following down the different members of the iron-work,
and the rust separating them from the concrete; and that
there was no way of determining these matters but by a trial
in a public street through a long period of time.
le was asked whether his own doubts as to the durability
of the structure were present at any time after the road was
in operation, and if so, when, and by what they were caused.
He answered "Yes," and said that during the spring of 1879,
the road was extended from Fillmore Street to Central Avenue,
by a wooden structure not nearly so durable or costly as the
original road; that, in preparing for the extension, he had
occasion to dig out and around, so as to expose some of the
old structure; that he saw therein some indication of the
loosening of the yokes in the concrete; and that he had some
little fear at that time that some trouble might arise in that
respect. He further testified that the reason he did not apply
for the patent within two years from the time when he first
put the structure into use, was that, if it proved weak or
undesirable, he did not want any patent; and he did not feel
certain enough of that fact until the year 1881.
But it did not appear that he expressed his doubts to the
projectors of the road, either before its construction was commenced, or during its construction, or while he remained its

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD.
Argument for Appellant.

superintendent after'it was completed; or that he communicated to any one what he noticed during the spring of 1879,
or that he entertained any fear arising therefrom.
Mr. Frederic 1. Coudert (with whom was -Mr. Charles
Frederic Adams on the brief) for appellant.
The invention was not, within the meaning of the statute,
"in public use" for more than tw6 years before Root's application for a patent.
The evidence is unquestionable as to the fact that Root intended this road as an experimental one, and that it was not
such a structure as at that time could at once have been known
to be a satisfactory construction. It was impossible to test
this device except by putting it into practical use. The cost
of this practical experiment does not enter the question, as it
could not he tested unless a road 'vas actually constructed
upon which would be received all the strains due to traffic,
etc., by which alone it could be tested. Elizabeth v. Pavement
Co., 97 U. S. 126.
The respondents have shown in their proof that this patent
in suit was involved in an interference. During that interference the question arose which is now taken as defence by
respondents, and the Patent Office decided that the use upon
the California Street road was an experimental use and such
a use as the nature of the invention required.
The "use" of Root's invention in the California Street railroad, upon which the learned judge below rested his decision,
was not the sort of "public use" intended by the statute, inasmuch as it was not such a use by the public (as distinguished
from a use in public) as is obnoxious to the policy of the
statute, implying an abandonment or dedication of the invention to the public, and being therefore likely to mislead the
public into assuming that the use of the device was free to
all.
"It is settled that a merely experimental use, made in good
faith, and not in such wise as to amount to a-fraud upon the
public, misleading them into a use, in the belief that it is free,

218,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

does not destroy the exclusive right of an inventor."
S'ison
v. Gilbert, 9 Blatchford, 185. See also Adams v. Edwai'd.i, 1
Fish. Pat. Cas. 1; Iocomotive Tr'uck Co. v. Piennsylvania
Railroad,1 Bann. & Ard. 470.
For the purposes of this question the only "use" of the
invention in the California Street road -save in the sense in
which it might be said that. Root himself was there "using"
the device by way of test and experiment-was by the company that owned the road. That that company transported
passengers generally, by means of this cable road, does not in
any relevant sense constitute those passengers, i.e. "the public," the users of the invention itself, as such.
Under the circumstances which here existed nothing can be
clearer than that Root's permitting ihat corporation to use his
system as it did in no sense implied or involved a "public
use" of the invention, or such an "action or attitude" upon
his part with reference thereto, as could fairly be deemed
likely to "mislead" the public into supposing that the invention had been abandoned and dedicated, and into acting "on
the belief that it was free." For Root, as the regularly employed engineer of the company, in full charge of the construction and at least technical management of its road, was
far too closely identified with the company, in respect of the
use of his invention, to allow his licensing the employment of
his system in that instance to bear even the most remote implication that "the public" was "free to use" the improved
device he had originated.
To him, under the circumstances, the California Street corporation was not "the'public," or a part of the public, but,
on the contrary, a capitalist partner, by whose aid alone he
could experimentally test and develop his conception in the
only way in which, in view of the nature and uses of the thing
invented, such experimental test and development were practicable, i.e. by the actual use of the device in an actual road
actually carrying such passengers as might offer.
The fact that fares were collected from passengers upon
this road (which road we have thus seen to be, in a very
relevant and very leal sense, an experiment upon the part of

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE I2AILROAD.
Argument for Appellant.

both Root and the company) seems to have been the determining circumstance against us in the mind of the learned
Judge. He seems to have assumed that that in itself was
proof that the "use" of the California Street road was not
a use "substantially for experiment," but a use "substantially
for profit"; and, having assumed this, he easily concludes that
we are not protected by the principle laid down by this learned
court in the Srnith & Griggs Case (123 U. S. 219), that the
receipt of profits is not incompatible with a "substantially
experimental" use.
The fact is, of course, that since the principle is that even
the regular receipt of profits from the use will not render the
invention unpatentable, provided only that the "use" from
which such profits are received is "substantially experimental
in character," the question whether this proviso is complied
with in a given case must be determined by some other (and
better) test than that afforded by the receipt of profits. An
adequate, effectual trial and testing of Mr. Root's invention
practically involved its embodiment and operation in the
manner and on the scale in and on which it was embodied
and operated in the California Street road; and this being
so, and Mr. Root's backers having been willing to risk their
capital in the experiment, there was no reason in law or policy
why the experiment should not be thus made, or why, when
it was so made, the operation of the system which was
required for adequately testing it should not have been
allowed, at the same time, to secure for the investors the
return or "profit" which the passengers who happened to
be served by the carrying on of the experiment were willing
to pay for the accommodation.
With all respect to the learned Circuit Judge, we submit
that the principles recognized by this court in the Nicholson
Pavement Case, 97 U. S. 126, fully established the patentability
of Root's invention, notwithstanding its embodiment in the
California Street road.
As to the necessity of complete and public use in experimenting, the cable road is even stronger than the pavement.
The latter can be much less in extent than the former. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

would not be possible to experiment with any but a complete
cable road. A block or two or three blocks would not answer,
for it would not be practicable to run cars regularly and constantly over such a short section, the city would not permit
such a road nor such- an experiment, nor could any one be
induced to undertake it. It becomes evident, therefore, that,
conceding a desire to experiment, a full-length, practically
operating, cable road upon a public highway would be
necessary.
A pavement might well. sustain the stress of public traffic
for a year or two, or the road-bed support the superstructure
of a railroad for a like peiod; but if, at the end of two or
three years, they should fail through inherent weakness, or
wear out, they would be of absolutely no commercial value.
Durability, of all qualities, is the sine qua non of such structures; without it they are worthless, and the same criterion
should not be applied to them as to a machine for making a
staple article, such, for example, as buckles.
This point should be kept in mind, in comparing this case
with the Smitk & Griggs Case, 23 U. S. 249.
See also the following cases: Railway Register Co. v. Broadway &c. Railroad, 26 Fed. Rep. 522; Beedle v. Bennett, 122
U. S. 71; Graham v. .cCormick, 11 Fed. Rep. 859; S. C. 10
Bissell, 39; Camp~bell v. 2Vew York, City, 9 Fed. Rep. 500;
Sinclairv. Backus, 4 Fed. Rep. 539; Campbell v. James, 17
Blatchford, 42 ; Birdsell v. McDonald, 1 Bann. & Ard. 165;
Jones v. Sewall, 6 Fish. Pat. Cas. 343; IFinand v. 2N. Y. d
1arlem Railroad Co., 4 Fish. 1.
Abr. Edmund lfetmore (with whom was Mr. llerbert Knight
on the :brief) for appellee.
Mi. JuSTicE BL&TCHFoiD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The Circuit Court truly says, in its opinion: "Manifestly
the complainant received a consideration for devising and consenting to the use of an invention which was designed to be a

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

complete, permanent structure, which was to cost a large sum
of money, and which he knew would not meet the expectation
of those who had employed him, unless it should prove to be
in all respects a practically operative and reasonably durable
one. If he had entertained any serious doubts of its adequacy
for the purpose for which it was intended, it would seem that
he would not have recommended it in view of the considerable
sum it was to cost. At all events, he did not treat it as an
experimental thing, but allowed it to be appropriated as a
complete and perfect invention, fit to be used practically, and
just as it was, until it should wear out, or until it should demonstrate its own unsuitableness. He turned it over to the
owners without reserving any future control over it, and
knowing that, except as a subordinate, he would not be permitted to rhake any changes in it by way of experiment; and
at the time he had no present expectation of making any
material changes in it. He never made or suggested a change
in it after it went into use, and never made an examination
with a view of seeing whether it was defective, or could be
improved in any particular."
It is contended by the plaintiff that the principles recognized by this court in Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126,
establish the patentability of the plaintiff's invention, notwithstanding its embodiment in the California Street railroad.
But the Circuit Court held that the proofs in the present case
did not show a use of the invention substantially for experiment, but showed such a public use of it as must defeat the
patent. The court further said that the facts were in marked
contrast with those in Elizabeth v. Patement Co., because
there the use was solely for experiment.
In Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., the original patent was
granted in August, 1854. The invention dated back as early
as 1847 or 1848. Nicholson, the inventor of the pavement in
question in that case, filed a caveat in the Patent Office in
August, 1847, describing the invention. He constructed a
pavement, by way of experiment, in June or July, 1848, in a
street near Boston, which comprised all the peculiarities afterwards described in his patent, the experiment being successful.

OCTOBER TEm'r, 1892.

-

Opinion of the Court.

The pavement so put down in Boston in 1848 was publicly
used for a space of six years before the patent was applied for;
and it was contended that that was a public.use within the
meaning of the statute. This court, speaking by Ir. Justice
Bradley, said that it was perfectly clear from the evidence that
Nicholson did not intend to abandon his right to a patent, lie
having filed a caveat in August, 1847, and having constructed
the pavement in Boston by way of experiment, for tlhe purpose of testing its qualities; that he was a stockholder in, and
treasurer of, the corporation which owned the road in Boston
where the pavement was put down, and which corporation received toll for its use; and that the pavement was constructed
by him at his own expense, and was placed by him there in
order to see the effect upon it of heavily loaded wagons and
of varied and constant use, and also to ascertain its durability
and liability to decay. It was *hown that he was there almost
daily, examining it and its condition, and that he often walked
over it, striking it with his cane. This court held that if the
invention was in public use or on sale prior to two years
before the application for the patent, that would be conclusive
evidence of abandonment, and the patent would be void; but
that the use of an invention by the inventor, or by any other
person under his direction, by way of experiment and in order
to bring the invention to perfection, had never been regarded
as a public use of it; and it added: "The nature of a street
pavement is such that it cannot be experimented upon satisfactorily except on a highway, which is always public. When
the subject of invention is a machine, it may be tested and
tried in a building, either with or without closed doors. In
either case, such use is not a public use, within the meaning of
the statute, so long as the inventor is engaged, in good faith,
in testing its operation. ie may see cause to alter it and improve it, or not. His experiments will reveal the fact whether
any and what alterations may be necessary. If durability is
one of the qualities to be attained, a long period, perhaps years,
may be necessary to enable the inventor to discover whether
his purpose is accomplished. And though, during all that
period, he may not find that any changes are necessary, yet

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

he may be justly said to be using his machine only by way of
experiment; and no one would say that such a use, pursued
with a bondftde intent of testing the qualities of the machine
would be a public use within the meaning of the statute. So
long as he does not voluntarily allow others to make it and
use it, and so long as it is not on sale for general use, he keeps
the invention under his own control, and does not lose his title
to a patent. It would not be necessary, in such a case, that
the machine should be put up and used only in the inventor's
own shop or premises. ie may have it put up and used in
the premises of another, and the use may inure to the benefit
of the owner of the establishment. Still, if used under the
surveillance of the inventor, and for the purpose of enabling
him to test the machine, and ascertain whether it will answer
the purpose . intended, and make such alterations and improvements as experience demonstrates to be necessary, it will still
be a mere experimental use, and not a public use, within the
meaning of the statute. Whilst the supposed machine is in
such experimental use, the public may be incidentally deriving
a benefit from it. If it be a grist-mill, or a carding-machine,
customers from the surrounding country may enjoy the use
of it by having their grain made into flour, or their wool into
rolls, and still it will not be in public use, within the meaning
of the law. But if the inventor allows his machine to be used
by other persons generally, either with or without compensation, or if it is with his consent put on sale for such use, then
it will be in public use and on public sale, within the meaning
of the law. If, now, we apply the same principles to this case,
the analogy will be seen at once. Nicholson wished to experiment on his pavement. He believed it to be a good thing, but
lie was not sure; and the only mode in which he could test it.
was to place a specimen of it in a public roadway. IBe did
this at his own expense, and with the consent of the owners
of the road. Durability was one of the qualities to be attained.
lie wanted to know whether his pavement would stand, and
whether it would resist decay. Its character for durability
could not be ascertained without its being subjected to use
for a considerable time. He subjected it to such use, in good

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

faith, for the simple purpose of ascertaining whether it was
what he claimed it to be. Did he do anything more than the
inventor of the supposed machine might do in testing his invention ? The public had the incidental use of the pavement, it
is true; but was the invention in public use, within the meaning of the statute? We think not. The proprietors of the road
alone used the invention, and used it at Nicholson's request,
by way of experiment. The only way in which they could
use it was by allowing the public to pass over the pavement.
Had the city of Boston, or other parties, used the invention,
by laying down the pavement in other streets and places, with
Nicholson's consent and allowance, then, indeed, the invention
itself 'would have been in public use, within the meaning of
the law; but this was not the case. -Nicholson did piot sell
it, nor allow others to use it or sell it. He did not let it go
beyond his control. He did nothing that indicated any intent
to do so. He kept it under his own eyes, and never for a
moment abandoned the intent to obtain a patent for it. In
this connection it is proper to make another remark. It is
not a public knowledge of his invention that precludes the
inventor from obtaining a patent for it, but a public use or
sale of it. In England, formerly, as well as under our Patent
Act of 1793, if an inventor did not keep his invention secret;
if a knowledge of it became public before his application for
a patent, he could -not obtain one. To be patentable, an
invenition must not have been known or used before the application; but this has not been the law of this country since the
passage of the act of 1886, and it has been very much qualified
in England. Zewis v. .arling, 10 B. & 0. 22. Therefore, if
it were true that (luring the whole period in which the -pavement was used, the public knew how it was constructed, it
would fhake no difference in the result. It is sometimes said
that an inventor acquires an undue advantage over the public
by delaying to take out a patent, inasmuch as he thereby preserves the monopoly to himself for a longer period than is
allowed by the policy of the law; but this cannot be said with
justice when the delay is occasioned by a bon4 fide effort to
bring his invention to perfection, or to ascertain whether it

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAIX
Opinion of the Court.

will answer the purpos'e intended.

His monopoly only con-

tinues for the allotted period, in any event; and it is the interest of the public, as well as himself, that the invention should
be perfect and properly tested, before a patent is granted for
it. Any attempt to use it for a profit, and not by way of
experiment, for a longer period than two years before the
application, would deprive the inventor of his right to a
patent."
We think that the present case does not fall within the principles laid down in -Elizabeth v. Pavement Co. The plaintiff
did not file a caveat, and there is no evidence that he did not
intend to abandon his right to a patent. It does not appear
that any part of the structure was made at his own expense,
or that he put it down in order to ascertain its durability or
its liability to decay, or that what he says he noticed in the
spring of 1879 led him to make any further examination in
that respect, or to test further the fear which he says he had
at that time, or that what he then saw led him to think that
the structure was weak or undesirable. It cannot be fairly
said from the proofs that the plaintiff was engaged in good
faith, from the time the road was put into operation, in testing the working of the structure he afterwards patented. He
made no experiments with a view to alterations ;" and we are
of opinion, on the evidence, that sufficient time elapsed to test
the durability of the structure, and still permit him to apply
for his patent within the two years. He did nothing and said
nothing which indicated that he was keeping the invention
under his 9wn control.
In Smith & Griggs Mfg. Co. v. Sprague, 123 U. S. 249. 256,
257, it was said, Mr.: Justice Matthews speaking for the court:
"A use by the inventor, for the purpose of testing the machine, in order by experiment to devise additional means for
perfecting the success of its operation, is admissible; and
where, as incidehs to such use, the product of its operation is
disposed of by sie, such profit from its use does not change
its character; bt where the use is mainly for the purposes of
trade and profit, and the experiment is merely incidental to
that, the principle and not the incident must give character
VOL. CXLVI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to the use. The thing implied as excepted out of the prohibition of the statute is a use which may be properly characterized
as substantially for purposes of experiment. , Where the substantial use is not for that purpose, but is otherwise public, and
for more than two years prior to the application, it comes
within the prohibition. The language of ยง 4S86 of the Revised
Statutes is that 'any person who has invented or discovered any
new and useful

.

.

machine

.

.

.

hot in public use

or on sale for more than two years prior to his application,
may . . . obtain a patent therefor.'
A single
sale to another of such a machine as that shown to have been
in use by the complainant more than two years prior to the
date of his application would certainly have defeated his right
to a patent; and yet, during that period in which its use by
another would have defeated his right, he himself used it, for
the same purpose for which it would have been used by a purchaser. Why should the similar use by himself not be counted
as strongly against his rights as the use by another to whom
he had sold it, unless his use was substantially with the motive
and for the purpose, by further experiment, of completing the
successful operation of his invention?"
In that case, .Elizabeth v. Pa'ement Co., spra, was cited
with approval, and it was said (p. 264): "In considering the
evidence as to the alleged prior use for more, than two years
of an invention, which, if established, will have the effect of
invalidating the patent, and where the defence is met only by
the allegation that the use was not a public use in the sense
of the statute, because it was for the purpose of perfecting an
incomplete invention by tests and experiments, the proof on
the part of the patentee, the period covered by the use having

been clearly established, should be full, unequivocal and convincing." The court came to the conclusion that the patentee
unduly neglected and delayed to apply for his patent, and deprived himself of the right thereto by the public use of the
machine in question; and that the proof fell far short of establishing that the main purpose in view, in the use of the machine
by the patentee, prior to his application, was to perfect its

mechanismn and improve its operation.

WASHINGTON &c. RAILROAD v. DIS'T OF COLUMBIA. 227
Syllabus.

So, too, in Hall v. .Macneale, 107 U. S. 90, 96, 97, it was
contended that the use there involved was a use for experiment; but the court answered that the invention was complete, and was capable of producing the results sought to be
accomplished; that the construction, arrangement, purpose,
mode of operation and use of the mechanism involved were
necessarily known to the workmen who put it into the safes,
which were the articles in question; that, although the mechanism was hidden from view after the safes were completed,
and it required a destruction of them to bring it into view,
that was no concealment of it or use of it in secret; that it
had no more concealment than was inseparable from any legitimate use of it; and that, as to the use being experimental,
it was not shown that any attempt was made to expose the
mechanism, and thus prove whether or not it was efficient.
In E bert v. Eiprnann, 104: U. S. 333, 336, the court remarked: "Whether the use of an invention is public or private, does not necessarily depend upon the number of persons
to whom its use is known. If an inventor, having made his
device, gives or sells it to another, to be used by the donee or
vendee, without limitation or restriction, or injunction of secrecy, and it is so used, such use is public, within the meitning
of the statute, even though the use and knowledge of the use
may be confined to one person."
Without examining any other of the defences raised, we are
of opinion that the bill must be dismissed, for the reason stated
by the Circuit Court.

DOecee a/irrned.

WASHINGTON AND GEORGETOWN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE'DISTRICT OF COLUMIBIA.
No. 27. Argued and submitted November 10, 11, 1892. -Decided

November 21, 1892.

With certain exceptions, within which this case does not fall, the statutes
regulating appeals from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia

