UNITED STATES v. PFERRY.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. PERRY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 794. Argued October 26, 28, 1892. -Decided

November 7, 1892.

Paintings upon glass, consisting of pieces of variously colored glass, cut
into irregular shapes and fastened together by strips of lead, painted by
artists of superior merit especially trained for the work, representing
biblical subjects and characters and intended to be used as windows in a
religious institution, imported in fragments to be put together in this
country in the form of such windows, are subject to the duty of 45 per
cent imposed by paragraph 122 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, 26
Stat. 573, c. 1244, upon stained or painted window glass and stained or
painted glass windows wholly or partly manufactured, and not specially
provided for in this act; and not to the duty imposed by paragraph 677,
26 Stat. 608, c. 1244, upon paintings specially imported in good faith for
the use of any society or institution established for religious purposes,
and not intended for sale.

THIS case arose out of the importation of certain stained
glass windows containing effigies of saints and other representations of biblical subjects. These windows were imported
and entered November 24, 1890, as "paintings" upon glass
for the use of the Convent of the Sacred Heart, located at
Philadelphia, and consisted of pieces of variously colored glass
cut into irregular shapes, and fastened together by strips
of lead, and intended to be used for decorative purposes
in churches, and when so used are placed upon the interior
of the window frame, and are backed by an outer window of
ordinary white glass. The outer window is necessary, as such
paintings require for their proper exhibition a transmitted
light. These paintings had been executed by artists of superior merit, especially trained for the work, and represented
biblical subjects and characters, such as St. Agnes, St. Joseph
teaching our Lord, St. Mark the Evangelist and St. Peter,
and other pictorial representations of like kind, designed for
religious instruction and edification. They did not come to
this country in a completed state, but in fragments to be
put together in the form of windows.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon these articles the collector of the port levied and collected a duty of 45 per cent imposed by paragraph 122 of the
tariff act of October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 513, c. 1244, upon
"stained or painted window glass and stained or painted glass
windows,
...
wholly or partly manufactured, and not
specially provided for in this act."
Against this classification defendant duly and seasonably
protested, claiming the articles were exempt from duty as
"paintings
specially imported in good faith for the
use of any society-or institution
ious . .
purposes, . . .

.

. .
established for religand not intended for sale,"

under paragraph 677. A hearing was had before the board
of general appraisers, who overruled the protest and affirmed
the action of the collector. Respondents thereupon filed a
petition in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New
York, praying for a review of the decision of the general
appraisers, as provided in section 15 of trie act of June 10,
-1890, 26 Stat. 138, c. 407. The Circuit Court reversed the
decision of the board of appraisers, and held the paintings to
be. entitled to free entry.. 1r e .Perry,47 Fed. Rep. 110.
From this decision the United States appealed to this court.
Mr'. Assistant Attorney Genercd Jffaury for appellants.
X3r. F Wickkhan Smith (with whom were lMr. Charles Curie
and .M. D. Ives Mackie on the brief) for appellees.
MR. JusTicE BnowN after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is difficult to fix the proper classificatiop of the importations in question under the act of October 1, 1890, without
referring to the prior acts upon the same subject.
By the tariff act of March 3,1883, 22 Stat. 497, c. 121, there
was imposed a duty of 45 per cent upon "porcelain and Bohemian glass, chemical glass ware, painted glass ware, stained
glass, and all other manufacture6 of glass

.

.

not spe-

cially enumerited," while "paintings, in oil or water colors,"

UNITED STATES v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

(Id. 513,) were subject to a duty of 30 per cent; and " paintings, drawings and etchings specially imported in good faith"
for religious institutions (Id. 520,) were admitted free. Under
this and similar prior statutes, which did not differ materially
in their language, it was uniformly held by the Treasury
Department that the term "paintings"' covered all works of
art produced by the process of painting, irrespective of the
material upon which the paint was laid; and that paintings
on glass, which ranked as works of art, were dutiable as paintings, and when imported for religious institutions were entitled to admission free of duty. Like rulings were made with
respect to paintings on ivory, silk, leather and copper, having
their chief value as works of art. The term was also held to
include wall panels painted in oil and designed for household
decoration. A like view was taken by this court in Arthtur v.
Jacoby, 103 U. S. 677, of pictures painted by hand upon porcelain where the porcelain ground " was only used to obtain a
good surface on which to paint, and was entirely obscured
from view when framed or set in any manner, and formed no
material part of the value of said paintings on porcelain, and
did not in itself constitute an article of china ware, being
manufactured simply as a ground for the painting, and not
for any use independent of the paintings."
In the meantime, however, the manufacture of stained glass
began to be a recognized industry in this country. Strong
protests were sent to Congress against these rulings of the
Department, and demands were made for the imposition of a
duty upon stained glass windows as such, to save the nascent
industry from being crushed out by foreign competition. Accordingly, in the act of October 1, 1890, we find a notable
change in phraseology and the introduction of a new classification. By paragraph 122 a duty of 45 per cent is imposed
upon "all stained or painted window glass and stained or
painted glass windows, and hand, pocket or table mirrors, not
exceeding" a certain size; while by paragraph 465, "paintings, in oil or water colors," are subject to a duty of only 15
per cent. The former exemption of "paintings, drawings,
and etchings specially imported" for religious institutions is

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

continued in paragraph 677, while in paragraph 757 a similar
exemption is extended to " works of art, the production of
American artists residing temporarily abroad, or other works
of art, including pictorial paintings on glass, imported expressly for . . . any incorporated religious society,
except stained or painted window glass or stained or painted
glass windows."
It is insisted by the defendants that the painted glass windows in question, having been executed by'artists of superior
merit; specially trained for the work, should be regarded as
works of art, and still exempted from duty as "paintings,"
and that the provision in paragraph 122, for "stained or
painted window glass and stained or painted glass windows,"
applies only to such articles as are the work of an artisan, the
product of handicraft, and not to memorial windows which
attain to the rank of works of art. Those who are familiar
with the painted windows of foreign cathedrals and churches
will indeed find it difficult to deny them the character of
works of art; but they would nevertheless be reluctant to put
them in the same category with the works of Raphael, Rembrandt, Murillo, and other great masters of the art of painting.
While they are artistic in the sense of being beautiful, and
requiring a high degree of artistic merit for their production,
they are ordinarily classified in foreign exhibits as among the
decorative and industrial rather than among the fine arts.
And in the catalogues of manufacturers and dealers in stained
glass, including the manufacturers of these very importations,
no distinction is made between these windows and other
stained or painted glass windows, which, by paragraph 757,
are specially excepted from the exemption of pictorial paintings on glass.
For most practical purposes works of art may be divided
into four classes:
1. The fine arts, properly so called, intended solely for ornamental purposes, and including paintings in oil and water, upon
canvas, plaster, or other material, and original statuary of
marble, stone or bronze. These are subject to a duty of 15
per cent.

UNITED STATES v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

2. Minor objects of art, intended also for ornamental purposes, such as statuettes, vases, plaques, drawings, etchings,
and the thousand and one articles which pass under the general name of bric-a-brac, and are susceptible of an indefinite
reproduction from the original.
3. Objects of art, which serve primarily an ornamental, and
incidentally a useful, purpose, such as painted or stained glass
windows, tapestry, paper hangings, &c.
4. Objects primarily designed for a useful purpose, but
made ornamental to please the eye and gratify the taste, such
as ornamented clocks, the higher grade of carpets, curtains,
gas-fixtures, and household and table furniture.
No special favor is extended by Congress to either of these
classes except the first, which is alone recognized as belonging
to the domain of high art. It seems entirely clear to us that
in paragraph 757, Congress intended to distinguish between
"pictorial paintings on glass" which subserve a purely ornamental purpose, and stained or painted glass windows which
also subserve a useful purpose, and moved doubtless by a desire
to encourage the new manufacture, determined to impose a
duty of 45 per cent upon the latter, while the former were
admitted free. As new manufactures are developed, the tendency of each tariff act is to nicer discriminations in favor of
particular industries. Thus, by acts previous to that of 1890,
paintings upon glass qnd porcelain were distinguished and taken
out of the general category of manufactures of glass and porcelain, and even of stained glass, while under that- act painted
and stained glass windows are distinguished and taken out of
the general designation-of paintings upon glass. If the question in this case rested solely upon the language of paragraph
677, doubtless these importations would be exempted as paintings imported for religious purposes; but as, by paragraph
757, pictorial paintings on glass, a more specific designation,
are again exempted, and stained glass windows are excepted
and taken out of this exemption, we think the intent of Congress must be gathered from the language of the latter paragraph rather than the former. R~obertson v. G0endenning, 132

U. S. 158.

Particullpry is this so in view of the fact that, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Appellant.

paragraph 122, a duty is levied upon "stained or painted window glass and stained or painted glass windows" eo nomine.
The use for which the importations are made in each case is
much the same. The fact that these articles are advertised
and known to the trade as painted or stained glass windows is
an additional reason for supposing that Congress intended to
subject them to a duty.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case rema7kdedforfurther aproceeding8in
conformity to this tinion.

UNITED STATES v. SCHOVERLING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

FOR

Nqo.690. Argued October 25, 1892. -Decided November 7, 1892,

In the latter part of October, 1890, the firm of S., D. & G. imported from
Europe articles described in the entry as "finished gunstocks with
locks.and mountings," unaccompanied by barrels for the guns. The collector levied duty on them as guns, under paragraph 170, in Schedule C
of the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, (26 Stat. 579.) The importers
protested that they were dutiable as manufactures of iron, under paragraph 215 of Schedule C of the act. The general appraisers affirmed
the decision of the collector. it did not appear that the gunstocks had
formed part of completed guns in Europe, and the question of the
importation of the barrels was not involved, although it appeared that
the gun-stocks were intended to be put with barrels otherwise ordered,
to form complete guns. The Circuit Court, on appeal by the importers,
reversed the decision. On appeal to this court, by the United States; Held
that the decision of the Circuit Court was correct.
The provision of ยง 2 of the act of January 29, 1795, (1 Stat. 411,) was not
still in force.
The appeal to this court was prosecuted as against the firm, but a motion
was granted to cure that defect by amendment.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Ahr. Solicitor General for appellant.

