OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: This was a suit brought October 9,
1890, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Connecticut to recover an alleged excess of duties upon
imports exacted by plaintiff in error in his capacity of collector of customs of the port of Hartford, prior to the going into
effect of the act of Congress of June 10, 1890, entitled "An
act to simplify the laws in relation to the collection of the
revenues," 26 Stat. 131. Judgment was given for defendant
in error, February 27, 1892, and on June 11, 1892, the pending
writ of error was sued out. The motion to dismiss the writ
must be sustained upon the authority of .Lau Ow Bew v. United
8tates, 144 U. S. 47; .9fe.Lish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661.
TFr'it of error dismissed.

EARNSIIAW v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN
No.4.

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued October17, 1892.-Decided November 7, 1892.

A reappraisement of imported merchandise under the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 2930, when properly conducted, is binding.
When the facts are undisputed in an action to recover back money paid to a
collector of customs on such reappraisement, the reasonableness of the
notice to the importer of the time and place appointed for the reappraisement is a question of law for the court.
Appraisers appointed under the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 2930 to reappraise
imported goods constitute a quasi-judicial tribunal, wiose action within
its discretion, when that discretion is not abused, is final.
An importer appealed from an appraisement of goods imported into New
York, ifl 1882. A day in June, 1883, was fixed for hearing the appeal.
The Government, not being then ready, asked for an adjournment, which
was granted without fixing a day, and the importer was informed that he
would be notified when the case would be heard. March 19, 1884, notice
was sent by letter to him at his residence in Philadelphia, that the appraisement would take place in New York, on the followinz day. His
clerk replied by letter that the importer was absent, in Cuba, not to
return before the beginning of May then next, and asked a postponement
till that time. The appraisers replied by telegram that the case was ad-

EARNSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
Journed until March 25. On the latter day the case was taken up and
disposed of, in the absence of the importer or of any person representing
him. Held,
(1) That the notices of the meetings in March were sufficient;
(2) That, in view of the neglect of the importer to make any provision for
the case being taken up in his absence, and of his clerk to appear
and ask for a further postponement of the hearing, the court could
not say that the appraisers acted unreasonably in proceeding exparte,
and in imposing the additional duties without awaiting his return.

THis cause was first argued on the 3d and 4th of INovember,
1890. On .the 10th of that month it was ordered to be reargued. The reargument took place October 17, 1892. The
case then made was stated by the court as follows:

This was an action by the United States against Earnshaw
in the District Court for duties upon eleven consignments of
iron ore imported by him. into the port of New York in 1882.
At the entry of the different consignments their values were
declared, and to each of these values the appraiser made an
addition.
From this appraisement Earnshaw appealed and demanded
a reappraisement, and a day was fixed for the hearing in June,
1883. Earnshaw, as well as the general appraiser and the
merchant appraiser, attended upon that day, and the government asked for a postponement. The proceeding was adjourned, but the day was not named, and Earnshaw was told
that he would be notified.
Upon Mvfarch 19, 1884, nine months after the adjournment,
the defendant, who lived in Philadelphia, was notified by
letter from the general appraiser that the appraisement would
take place at his office in New York at noon on March 20.
At that time, however, defendant was in Cuba., and his
brother, who was also his clerk, wrote the general appraiser
in his name that he was out of the country, and would not be
back before the beginning of May, and asked a postponement
of the hearing until that time. The appraiser telegraphed in
reply: "Your cases adjourned to Tuesday, March 25th, 12 m."
On March 31st, in the absence of Earnshaw, and with no one
acting for him, the reappraisement was made, and for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

difference between the amount he had paid and the amount
thus ascertained this action was brought.
Upon the trial the defendant, having read the statute
authorizing the demand for a reappraisement, read the following regulation of the Treasury Department, to show that he
was entitled to notice to be present at the reappraisemient that
he might tender evidence:
"ART. 466. On the receipt of this report the collector will
select one discreet and experienced merchant, a citizen of the
United States, familiar with the character and value of the
goods in question, to be associated with an appraiser at large,
if the attendance of such officer be practicable, to examine and
appraise the same according to law. Rev. Stat. 2930.
The appraiser at large will be notified of the appeal, of the
time fixed for reappraisement, and of the name of the merchant
appraiser. The importer will be notified of the time and place,
but not of the name of the merchant selected to assist in the
appraisement. . . . The importer or his agent will be
allowed to be present, and to offer such explanations and
statements as may be pertinent to the case."
The defendant relied solely upon the want of proper notice
of the reappraisement, and asked the court to instruct the jury
as follows:
1. If the defendant attended on the day appointed for the
appraisement by the merchant appraiser and, the United
States not being ready to go on and the hearing postponed
indefinitely, the defendant was entitled to such reasonable
notice of the time and place of holding the appraisement as
would enable him to attend.
2. If the United States failed to move in the matter after
the adjournment from June, 1883, until March, 1884, and the
defendaht was then temporarily absent from home, he was
entitled to a reasonable time to enable him to return and
attend at the appraisement.
3. If the United States insisted on proceeding with the reappraisement in the absence of the defendant, under the circumstances, as shown by the testimony, the reappraisement is
not a valid merchant's appraisement.

EARNSHAW

v. UNITED STATES.

Argumentsfor Plaintiff in Error.

The judge declined to instruct as requested, and charged the
jury that such notice was given to the defendant as is contemplated by the regulations of the Department and the rules
of law governing reappraisements, that the reappraisement
was valid, and that the plaintiff was entitled to recover a verdict for the amount of the claim, $1611.20, with interest.
This was the amount claimed over and above the amount paid,
and for this amount the jury returned a verdict, upon which
judgment was entered accordingly. 30 Fed. Rep. 672.
The Circuit Court affirmed this judgment upon a writ of
error, whereupon the defendant sued out a writ of error from
this court.
.Mr. 1?. C. .McMurtriefor plaintiff in error.
At the former argument a member of the court inquired if
the importer had given any evidence to show that the reappraisement was incorrect in amount. The reply was that
none was tendered, because evidence of that character was not
admissible. The authorities are distinct-the appraisement
is conclusive if it is legal. Error in fact or mistakes cannot be
inquired into. Act of August 30, 1842, 5 Stat. c. 270, § 17,
p. 564; RIankin v. _hoyt, 4 How. 327, 335; Bartlett y. Kean, 16
How. 263; Sampson v. Peaslee, 20 How. 571, 580. In Weistray
v. United States, 18 Wall. 322, evidence of this character was
offered and rejected because the act of the collector was conclusive, and this was affirmed. See page 329. And this was
again recognized in United States v. Schlesinger, 120 U. S.
109, where the converse proposition was before. the court,
and where the defence was, as here, that the assessment was
illegal.
The valuation is conclusive. Hilton v. MIerritt, 110 U. S.
97. There is no right to go to a jury on the subject of the
values. Oelbermann v. Merritt, 123 U. S. 356. But the importer can show that the appraiser had not the qualifications
required by the statute. -d.
1. Was the importer entitled to notice? On the first trial
it was ultimately admitted by the court that the importer was

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

entitled to notice of the reappraisement, and then it became
the question in the cause whether, under the circumstances,
the notice given was reasonable.
The importer had been ready and had attended at the
times appointed for the hearing, but the United States was
not prepared to go on nor to fix a time when they would be
ready. They postponed the hearing indefinitely and for their
convenience and on a promise of notice. Nine months after
this, on a few days' notice, while defendant was absent temporarily from the country, they determined to go on, disregarding the application for time to permit the return of the
defendant.
It is insisted by the plaintiff in error, as it was in the court
below, that the real question was whether the defendant was
entitled to notice ; for if this be the case the legal consequence
was supposed to be that it must be a reasonable one. There
is not an instance that can .be produced in which notice is
requisite and reasonableness of the notice is not involved.
It is important to observe that the case was an appeal
from an assessment, and that the new assessors were to be
governed by evidence.

Afarriott v. Brune, 9 Hlow. 619, 634.

The statute itself is silent on the subject of when and how
this new body was to act ; but the regulations of the Treasury
assume that the importer is entitled to be present, and since
these regulations are in favor of the citizen, and tend to produce justice, they are entitled to great weight.
In Rankin v. Hfoyt, 4-How. 327, 335, this court said: "In
case the importer is dissatisfied with the valuation made by
appraisers, he is allowed,

.

.

.

before paying the duty, an

appeal and further hearing before another tribunal, constituted
in part by persons of his own selection. These persons have
been aptly denominated a species of 'legislative referees,' 2
Mason, 406; and if the importer does not choose to resort to
them, he cannot, with much grace, complain afterwards that
any overestimate existed." The conduct of these appraisers is
inquirable into on the question of the validity of their appraisement. Greely v. Burgess, 18 How. 413, 415. In 10 How. 225,
241, Greely v. Thompson, Mr. Justice Woodbury points out

EARNSAAW v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that the error lay in not adverting to the judicial character of
the merchant appraiser; in fact his removal by the collector
is. classed with the conduct of the English Stuarts in removing
judges if not sufficiently pliable.
I assumne that nothing further is required to prove that the
importer is entitled to notice of the reappraisement, and that
the appraisers are performing a judicial function.
2. Notice of a hearing at which evidence is to be given and
a fact ascertained by a tribunal, which affects the interests of
the per-son entitled to the notice, means such notice as wilt
enable him to protect his interests. If it does not, this absurdity is involved, that notice after the hearing is sufficient. At
the first trial it was so held, but the court on consideration
thought they had been mistaken in this, and that the mode
and time of notice were intrusted to the caprice of the appraiser. A discretion not inquirable into is a caprice, so far
as third persons are concerned.
If this ruling be correct, this is the one exceptional case in
which it is so intrusted. I, at least, am not aware of another
instance in which a person intrusted by law to do such a thing
can assert that this discretion cannot be inquired into. The
most common instance is that of a -trustee, and we all know
this does not mean his capricious determination. Hill on
Trustees, 494,495; Coleman v. Strong, 39 Oh. D. 443,446; and
by no one is the point better stated than by Chancellor Desaussure, Hlaynesworth v. Cox, Harper (Eq.) 118. The case deserves
reading. An executor was given the right to elect which of
two things should be given a legatee -a slave or a sum of
money. Being interested in the estate, he selected a woman
past child-bearing and nearly past labor. The court with
some emphasis said the discretion was limited to selecting
wich was the more valuable for the legatee.
The authorities collected by Judge Brown, of the Southern
District of New York, in a recent case, seem to render further
discussion useless. United States v. J)oherty, 27- Fed. Rep
730, citing 4 Inst. 41 ;' ooke's Case, 3 Rep. 100; Rexr v. Peters,
1 Burrow, 568,.570 ; Rose v. Stuyvesant 8 Johns. 426 ; President and Trustees of Brooklyn v. Patohen,,8 Wend. 47. These
VOL. CXLVI-5

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

citations are in accord with all the authorities.

Passmorev.

Petit, 4 Dall. 271; Frey v. Vanlear, 1 S. & :R. 435; Unih'd
States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 486, 487; Regina v. Grant, 14 Q. B.
43; VFestry of St. James v. Feary, 24 Q. B. D. 703.
If, then, the court had the power or jurisdiction to decide
that the defendant was entitled to notice of the heafing or
appraisement, they had, of necessity, a power to determine
whether what was given was legal notice. As they declined
because their jurisdiction was not extended to that, the cause
must be reversed, unless this court differs from the judge in
thinking the notice was sufficient. Was this sof3. The notice was insufficient. The cargo had been delivered, and time was quite immaterial. The Government was
seeking to correct an error made by one of its officers. The
defendant had attended the meeting when the United States,
not being prepared, and not being able to say when they would
be prepared, put off the meeting with a promise to notify; and
at the end of nine months, having fixed on a day, refused to
change it, though the defendant had left home to return
shortly. It was not pretended that the desired delay was any
disadvantage to the United States. And if they could wait,
as they had, done, from September, 1882, when the importation was made, to March, 1884, when the appraisement was
had, there should be some reason for refusing to continue the
case till May, to enable the defendant to attend.
.Mr.Assistant Attorney General .Maury for defendant in
error.
MR. JusT cE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

It is conceded in this case that the reappraisement was binding provided it was properly conducted; Rev. Stat. § 2930;
Rankin v. H-oyt, 4 flow. 327, 335; Bartlett v. Kane, 16 How.
263, 272; Sampson v. Peaslee, 20 How. 571; Hlilton, v. Merritt, 110 U. S. 97; and the sole defence made upon the trial
was that Earnshaw did not receive a reasonable notice of the
time when the reappraisement was to be made.

EARNSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts being undisputed, the reasonableness of the notice
with respect to time was a question of law for the court, and
was properly withdrawn from the consideration of the jury.
Rill v. Hobart, 16 Maine, 164; Blackwell v. Fosters, 1 Met.
(Ky.) 88; Seymour v. JfeCormick, 19 How. 96, 106; LuckhAart
v. Ogden, 30 California, 547, 557; Holbrook v. Burt, 22 Pick.
546; Phemnix Ins. Co. v. Allen, 1-1 Michigan, 501. By Revised
Statutes, sections 2899 to 2902, provision is made for the appraisement of imported merchandise under regulations prescribed in the succeeding sections, and by section 2930, if the
importer is dissatisfied with such appraisement he may give
notice to the collector, upon the receipt of which the latter
"shall select one discreet and experienced merchant to be associated with one of the general appraisers wherever practicable,
or two discreet and experienced merchants, citizens of the
United States, familiar with the character and value of the
goods iu question, to examine and appraise the same, agreeably
to the foregoing provisions;

.

.

. and the appraisement

thus determined shall be final and be deemed to be the true
value, and the duties shall be levied thereon accordingly." No
provision is expressly made by statute for notice to the
importer, but by Article 466 of the Treasury Regulations of
1884, "the importer will be notified of the time and place, but
not of the name of the merchant selected to assist in the
appraisement." The board of appraisers thus constituted is
vested with powers of a quasi-judicial character, and the appraisers are bound (§ 2902) "by all reasonable ways and means
in his or their power to ascertain, estimate, and appraise the
true and actual market value and wholesale price

.

.

.

of

the merchandise at the time of exportation," etc. No reason
is perceived for excludiiig this board of appraisers from the
benefit of the general rule applicable to such officers, that some
presumption is to be indulged in favor of the propriety and
legality of their action, and that with respect to their methods
of procedure they are vested with a certain discretion which
will be respected by the courts, except where such discretion
has been manifestly abused, and the board has proceeded in a
wanton disregard. of justice or of the rights of the importer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The general principle is too well settled to admit of doubt that
where the action of an inferior tribunal is discretionary its
decision is final. Giles' Case, Strange, 881; .Ning v. Prorrietors, 2 Win. Bi. '701; -Ienderson v. .Moore, 5 Cranch, 11 ; Zifar'ine -Ins.Co. of Alexandria *v. Young, 5 Cranch, 187; .2rarine
Ins. Co. of Alexandria v. flodgson, 6 Cranch, 206.
It was decided at an early day in this court that the refusal
of an inferior court to continue a case cannot be assigned as
error. Woods v. Young, 4 Cranch, 237. And yet there are
doubtless cases to be found which hold that where, under the
recognized practice, a party makes a clear case for a continuance, it is an abuse of discretion to refuse it. Thus in Rose v.
Stuyvesant, 8 Johns. 426, the judgment of a justice of the
peace was reversed, because he had refused an adjournment
of a case on account of a child of the defqndant being dangerously sick: and in Hooker v. -Rogers,6 Cowen, 577, the verdict was set aside by the appellate court upon the ground that
the circuit judge refused to put off the trial of the cause upon
proof that a mat&rial witness was confined to his bed by sickness, and unable to attend court. See, also, Trustees of Brooklyn v. Patelten, 8 Wend. 47; Ogden v. Payne, 5 Cow. 15.
So in Frey v. Vanlear, 1 S. & R. 435, where arbitrators adjourned to a day certain and did not meet on that day, but
met on a subsequent day, examined the witnesses in the
absence of the opposite party, and without notice of the meeting, and made an award, it was held that their proceedings
were irregular, and the judgment was reversed. The question
in all these cases is whether in respect either to the notice of
the trial, adjournments, allowance of pleas, the reception of
testimony, or other incidental proceedings the court has or
has not acted in the exercise of a sound and reasonable discretion. The subject is fully discussed in People v. Superior
Court of YVew York, 5 Wend. 114.
The tribunal in this case was created as a part of the machinery of the government for the collection of duties upon
imports, and while its proceedings partake of a semi-judicial
character, it is not reasonable to expect that in notifying the
importer it should proceed with the technical acc'uracy neces-

EARNSIAW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sary to charge a defendant with liability in a court of law.
The operations of the government in the collection of its
revenueiuought not to be embarrassed by requiring too strict an
adherence to the forms and modes of proceeding recognized
in courts of law, so long as the rights of its tax-payers are not
wantorily sacrificed. In this case notice was given to the
defendant by letter and telegram, but as these notices were
actually received at his office, he has no right to complain that
they were not served personally. Jones v. 3farsh, 4 T. R.
464:; Johnston v. Robins, 3 Johns. 440; Walker v. Sharpe,
103 Mass. 154; Clark v. Reliker, 107 Mass. 406; Blish v.
Harlow, 15 Gray, 316; Wade on Notice, § 640.
The first day fixed for the hearing was in June, 1883, when
the defendant and the appraisers attended, but the government was not ready to proceed, and the hearing was adjourned
indefinitely, with an understanding that the defendant should
be notified of the day when the case would be again taken up.
Nine months elapsed without any action, when on March 18,
1884, the general appraiser at New York addressed a letter to
the defendant at Philadelphia, notifying him that the reappraisement would take place at his office on the 20th day of
March, at noon. Defenoant at that time was in Cuba, but
the letter was received by his brother, a clerk in his office, who
wrote the appraiser in Earnshaw's name that Mr. Earnshaw
was out of the country and was not expected back before the
beginning of May, "and I must, therefore, ask you to be kind
enough to postpone the said reappraisement." In reply to
this a telegram was sent to the effect that the case was adjourned to March 25th, at noon, a postponement of five days
from the time originally fixed. To this telegram no attention
was paid, and it appears that the reappraisement was not held
until the 31st, nearly a week after the day fixed in the tele-.
gram. On'the 10th of May, when the defendant returned, he
received a demand for payment of the duties according to the
reappraisement.
The amount of business done by the defendant does not distinctly appear, but considering that this suit is brought to collect the difference in duties upon eleven different importations

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of iron ore from a single foreign port during the latter half of
1882, it is but fair to infer that it was of considerable magnitude. Defendant knew before leaving for Cuba that proceedings were pending for a reappraisement of duties upon these
cargoes, and were liable to be called up in his absence.
Tinder such circumstances the appraiser might reasonably
expect that he would leave some one to represent him, or at
least that his clerk would act upon his notification to appear
on the 25th, and ask for a further postponement on the ground
of the defendant's continued absence, if the personal presence
of the latter were in fact important. Had he done so and his
application been refused, a much stronger case would have
ie did not do so, however,
been presented by the defendant.
but neglected to appear or to request a further postponement,
and practically allowed the hearing to take place by default.
In view of the neglect of the defendant to make any provision
for the case being taken up in his absence, and of his clerk to
appear and ask for a further postponement of the hearing, we
cannot say that the appraisers acted unreasonably in proceeding exparte and imposing the additional duties without awaiting the return of the defendant. Indeed, if a court of justice
should fix a day for the trial of a case, though the court were
informed that-a party could not be present on that day, and
the attorney of the party refused to appear and demand a
further postponement, we should be unwilling to say that it
would constitute such an abuse of discretion as to vitiate the
judgment.
There was no error in the ruling of the court below, and the
judgment is, therefore,
.Affirmned.

