COMPANIA BILBAITNA v. SPA ISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 483
Syllabus.

one of the elements of the Kenna claim does not make the
devise an infringement. In this case the Pearl chair possessed
the same feature of elasticity in the bail, which is claimed to
be the mechanical equivalent of the yielding rest or support.
In the other exhibit a button is used to hold the bail under
the frame of the seat; but as this button is not a "yielding
rest or support," or a "spring catch," the charge of infringement as to this exhibit is not sustained.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the ease remanded, with directions to dismiss
the bill.

COMPANIA BILBAINA DE NAVEGACION, DE
BILBAO v. SPANISH-AMERICAN LIGHT AND
POWER COMPANY.
APPE&L FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 66. Argued December 1, 2,1892. -Decided December 12, 1892.
Clauses in a charter-party of a vessel construed.
The owner of the vessel held not to be entitled to recover from the charterer any part of the expense of fitting up the tanks in the vessel to
carry petroleum in bulk.
The owner could not affirm the charter-party for one purpose and repudiate
it for another.
The charter-party never became a binding contract.
If there was any part of it in regard to which the minds of the parties did
not meet, the entire instrument was a nullity, as to all its clauses.
Nor did the delivery of the vessel to the charterer, and her acceptance by
him, constitute a hiring of her under the charter-party, as it would stand
with certain disputed clauses omitted.
The delivery of the vessel was the adoption by the owner of tlfe existing
charter-party.
The owner could not collect rent for the time he was fitting up the tanks,
and the charterer was liable to pay rent for the use of the vessel only
while she was in his service.

THE case is stated in the opinion,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. James Parkerfor appellant.
.Afr. George TIF. ] ingate for appellee.
-AIR. JUSTICE BLATCHFOrlD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a. libel inpersonam, in Admiralty, filed in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, by La, Compania Bilbaina de INavegacion, do
lBilbao, a corporation of Spain, as owner of the Spanish steamship Marzo, against the Spanish-American Light. and Power
Company, Consolidated, a corporation of the State of New
York, claiming to recover $5520.97, with interest from August
4, 1886; $1800, with interest from May 21, 886; $3300, with
interest from June 21, 1886; and $8.14. The case is fully
stated in the findings of fact hereinafter set forth.
The claim is made on a charter-party, a copy of which is
annexed to the libel. It is dated December 14, 1885, at the
city of New York, and purports to be made by the agent of
the ownbr of the steamship and by the Spanish-American
Company, and to let the steamship to that company for twelve
months. The important clauses in it are those numbered 11,
12 and 18, which are as follows: "11. That the charterers shall
have the option of continuing the charter for a further period
of twelve months on giving notice thereof to owners thirty
days previous to first-named term, and to have the liberty of
subletting the steamer, if reqhired by them. 12. That in the
event of loss of time from deficiency of men or stores, break
dowrn of machinerv, or damage preventing the working of the
vessel for more than twenty-four working hours, the payment
of hire shall cease until she be again in an efficient state to
resume her service; and should she, in consequence, put into
any other port other than that to which she is bound, the
port charges and pilotages at such port shall be borne by the
steamers' owners; but should the vessel be driven into port
or to anchorage by stress of Weather or from any accident to
the cargo, such detention or loss of time shall be at the charterers' risk and expense." "1S. Should steamer be employed

COMPANIA BILBAIN A v. SPANISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 485
Opinion of the Court.

in tropical waters during the term of said charter-party,
steamer is to be docked and bottom cleaned and painted, if

charterers think necessary, at least once in every six months,
and payment of the hire to be suspended until she is again in
a proper state for the service ; charterers to have the privilege
of shipping petroleum in bulk in water-ballast tanks, which
are to be fitted for the purpose at owners' expense, satisfactory
to charterers, and have permission to appoint a supercargo at
their expense, who shall accompany steamer, and be furnished
free of charge with first-class accommodations, and see that
voyages are made with utmost dispatch."
The respondent appeared in the action, and put in its
answer, denying that the libellant was entitled to recover
any part of the $5520.97, admitting the payment of $1500
and 83300, and denying that it owed anything to the libellant.
It alleged that the libellant never fitted up the centre waterballast tank to carry oil in bulk, its use being consequently
lost to the respondent; that the"capacity of that tank was
about 50,000 gallons, and its loss reduced the value of the
vessel to the respondent $1100 a month from May 15, 1886,
making A damage of 810,084; that from February 21, 1886,
to August 27, 1886, the date- of the bringing of the suit, was
188 days; that during that period the respondent was deprived of the use of the vessel forty-two days, leaving only
146 days for which hire was due; that such hire, at the rate
of X675 a month, amounted to $l6,060; that on account of
such hire' the respondent had paid altogether $15,137; that
it was entitled to d duct from the moneys due on the charterparty $2390, for the expense to which it was put in procuring
barrels. so to transp

t the oil, and for the charges connected

therewith,, and the fi. ther sum of $10,084 for the daniages
which it would sustain by reason of the refusal of the libellant
to fit.up the centre tank to carry oil in bulk; and that it had
filed a cross-Jibel to recover frorh the libellant so much thereof
as exceeded the hire of the vessel claimed in the libel.
The case was heard in the' District Court by Judge Brown,
and a decree was entered by that court on June 21, 1887, for
the recovery by the libellant of $1800; being the balance of

OCTOBER TER-M, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

hire unpaid for the vessel for the month beginning May 21,
1886, and for $117 interest thereon from May 21, 1886, and
$95.73 costs, the -whole amounting to $2012.73.
The opinion of Judge Brown is reported in 31 Fed. Rep. 492.
He took the view that thecharter-party signed by the broker of
the libellant did not constitute a legal contract, binding upon
either of the parties, because such broker, in signing it, exceeded his authority; that that fact was communicated at the
time to the broker of the' respondent; that it was agreed, between the brokers of the two parties, that, if the clause relating to the extension of time for twelve months, and the clause

requiring the vessel to fit up the oil tanks at the expense of
the owner, were objected to by the latter, the matter should
be settled by negotiation; that the respondent from the first
refused the charter unless the vessel should fit up the tanks at
the expense of her owner; that that fact was stated to libellant's broker at the time; that the owner of the vessel subsequently refused to confirm these two clauses in the charter;
that notice of such refusal was given to the respondent, and it
never consented to waive those two clauses; that no agreement
as to those two clauses was ever arrived at; that the subsequent conduct of each party showed that neither intended to
recede from its position; that, when the vessel arrived at Philadelphia, ready for the first voyage, neither party made any
inquiry as to the disputed clauses; that both parties assented
to the use of the vessel on the first voyage, without any
definite agreement on the disputed points, and without any
settlement by negotiation ; that the respondent did not object,
because it was not ready to use the tanks; that, when it was
ready to use them, and required that they should be fitted up
.bythe libellant in pursuance of the terms of the charter-party,
the libellant refused to do so; that the cargo was then taken in
barrels, under a stipulation that that might be done without
prejudicing the rights of either party, the respondent claiming
damages for the extra expense; and that subsequently the
libellant fitted up the tanks, claiming that the expense would
be kt the charge of the respondent, while the latter notified
the libellant that it would not pay for any such expense.

COMPANIA BILBAINA v. SPANISH-AMEIICAN &c. CO. 4S7
Opinion of the Court.

The District Court also held that, although the charter-party
as a whole never became a contract binding upon either of the
parties, it might be referred to as fixing the rights of each in
so far as it might be presumed to have been adopted by both
parties in their subsequent acts; that the respondent was apprised of the verbal refusal of the owner to agree to the two
disputed clauses of the charter-party; that, nevertheless, the
vessel came to tfie respondent, and was tendered to it by the
owner, without any attempt to settle the disputed points; that
both parties consented: to the first voyage without any settlement of those differences; that as soon, however, as any question was made between the master and the respondent, after
the first voyage, the original refusal of the owner was made
known to the respondent, and neither party ever agreed to the
demands of the other party on the subject; and that the vessel
was employed without either side yielding anything to the
other as to the charter-party. The court further held, that,
under that state of things, the terms of the charter-party constituted the implied agreement of the parties in the actual use
made of the vessel, in everything except as to the disputed
clauses; that neither party could found any claim against the
other upon the clauses which the other always refused to
accept, because, in the face of such refusal, no agreement
to those clauses could be implied; that the libellant, therefore,
could recover nothing for its expenditure in fitting up the tanks
to carry oil in bulk, nor could the respondent by its cross-libel
recover any damages because the tanks were not fitted up
earlier; that for the same reason, the libellant could not recover for any time of the vessel lost while it was fitting up the
tanks; that it lost nothing by that disallowance, because it did
not appear that any more time was required to fit up the tanks,
when the work was actually done, than would have been required when the vessel was brought over to the respondent;
that the evidence showed that after the employment of the
vessel had begun, neither party was desirous of insisting on
its' legal right to discontinue all further service by reason
of the failure of the parties to come to an agreement upon the
disputed clauses; that the rights and liabilities of the parties

OCTOBER TERM-,

1892.

Opinion 6f the Court.

were founded, not at all upon the written charter-party, but
wholly upon their subsequent conduct in the actual use of the
vessel;, that the charter-party was. applied by implication to
those acts, so far as it presumptively indicated the intention
of both parties, and no further; that. there could be no inplied promise or obligation in contradiction of the expressed
refusal of either party; that the result was that neither had
any claim upon the other for the damages set forth by them
respectively; and that the libel and the cross-libel must be dismissed, except as respected the hire, if any, unpaid for the
time of the actual use of the vessel by the respondent.
Both parties appealed to the Circuit Court. That court, held
by Judge Lacombe, dismissed the cross-libel of the respondent,
without costs of the Circuit Court to either party, and decreed
that the libellant recover-from the respondent the amount of
damages and costs decreed by the District Court, viz., $2012.73
and $185.27 interest thereon, being a total of $2198.
Judge Lacombe, in his opinion, said that there was nothing
to add to the opinion of the District Judge; that the findings
made by the Circuit Court sufficiently showed upon what
theory the decision of Judge Brown was affirmed; and that,
as both sides had appealed, no costs of the Circuit Court were
allowed to either party.
The Circuit Court filed original findings of fact and conclusions of law, on October 15, 1888; and on January 14, 1889, it
filed supplemental findings of fact. The original and supplemental findings of fact are as follows, the latter being enclosed in brackets:
"First. On December 19, 1885, the Spanish-American Light
.and Power Company, Consolidated, by the signatures of its
president and secretary, executed a charter-party of the S. S.
Marzo, owned by La Compania Bilbaina de Navegacion, de
Bilbao.
"Second. Said charter-party contained three clauses, as
follows, viz.:" then setting forth clauses 11, 12 and 18.
"Third. The negotiations preliminary to the signing of said
charter-party were conducted by Henry P. Booth, acting as
broker for the said the Spanish-American Light and Power

COMPANIA BILBAINA v. SPANISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 489
Opinion of the Court.

Company, and William W. iurlbut, acting as broker for La
Compania Bilbaina de lavegacion, de Bilbao, and was signed
by said Hurlbut as agent for said last-named company.
"Fourth. Prior to said signature Iurlbut stated to Booth
that he had no authority from his principals, the owners of
the ship, to give the option of the continuance set forth in
clause 11, or to agree to the insertion in clause 1S of- the
words 'at owners' expense,' or to agree upon behalf of the
owners that they would pay any part of the expense of fitting
water-ballast tanks for carrying oil in bulk; [and that he
would not sign the charter-party containing the said clause 11
and said words 'at owners' expense' until authorized by the
owners, his principals; that he, iurlbut, would cable for
authority, or he would sign the charter-party with that clause
and those words therein upon the condition that the said
clause and words were not to be binding upon the owners of
the vessel until approved by the said owners; that Booth
thereupon agreed to said proposal made by Hurlbut; that
thereupon said charter-party, containing said clause and words
at owners' expense,' was taken by Booth to the office of the
Spanish-American Light and Power Company, and was there
-signed by its president and secretary and manager, and was
brought back to Hurlbut's office by Booth.]
"Fifth. Thereupon said Iurlbut signed the charter-party
and wrote a memorandum to the effect that the charter-party
was signed subject to the approval of the owners as to those
two clauses. He at that time again announced to Booth his
want of authority to incorporate those clauses, and that a copy
of the memorandum should be sent with the copies of the
charter to be furnished to Booth, as broker, for delivery to
the charterers.
"Sixth. Prior to the time of the signature aforesaid Hurlbut had not in fact received from his principals any authority
to bind them to a contract containing these clauses.
"Seventh. Upon being notified of the action of Hurlbut in
signing a charter-party containing these clauses they refused
to ratify his action in that regard.
"Eighth. The authority of Booth, the charterers' agent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

was limited to securing the execution of a charter containing
these clauses. [Immediately after the signature of the charterparty, on December 19th, Hurlbut made a clean copy of the
memorandum agreement, as follows, viz.:
"'NTEW YoRK,

.December 19th, 1885.

"'Spanish-American Light and Power Company, charterers

S. S. Alarzo.
"'Sins: I have signed charter-party by authority contained
in the cables received.
"! Should the two clauses, viz.: "Privileges of twelve months'
extension," and the "fitting of ballast tanks for petroleum at
owners' expense," be not accepted by owners it is understood
that the same may be arranged or compromised by mutual
consent by cable.
W. W. IUTRLBUT.'
"'Yours truly,
"And on the following Monday enclosed three copies ofthe
charter-party, with copy of said memorandum attached, and
sent same to Mr. Booth, the broker of the charterers, with the
following letter, viz.:
" ' NEw YoRx, .December 21, 1885.
"'Messrs. James E. Ward & Co.
"' D
Sins : I enclose three certified copies charter-party
S. S. Marzo ; also letter for charterers to accept, covering the
two conditions inserted in charter-party as understood on
signing same.
W. W. HURLBUT.'
"'Yours truly,
"These were received by Booth.
"That on the 11th January, 1886, Hurlbut sent to Booth
information that he had received a letter, dated December 31,
1885, from the London brokers, as follows : ' Owners refused
to give option continuation which was asked them. We cabled
you this: owners only gave liberty to carry ,petroleum in
ballast tanks; they never agreed to "fitted at their own
expense." We are really sorry you put them in charter-party

COMPANIA BILBINA v. SPANISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 491
'Opinion of the Court.

without authority.

Owners are certain to pitch into us ;" and

that he had also received cable information that the steamship
Marzo was about leaving Bilbao for the United States.
"That on January 4th, 1886, the owners of the steamship
(La Compania Bilbaina de Navegacion, de Bilbao), having
received copies of the charter-party, wrote to Messrs. Walker,
Donald & Taylor, the London brokers, as follows, viz.:
"'BILBAo, January 4t/, 1886.
"'DEAR SiRs: We are in receipt of your favor of the 23d
and 31st ulto. and the 1st inst. enclosing charter-party for the
Marzo S. S. As we are completely ignorant of this timecharter business, being the first time that we fix any one of
our boats in this way, we are not decided until we see clearly
and experience what there may be left to prolong the T. 0.
for another twelve months. If we see, and this will be soon
seen, that things go all right, etc., it is probable that we shall
agree to it and even be disposed to fix any other of our boats
if you can then place her, but for the present we regret not to
be able to agree to the option of twelve mon_)s more, nor can
we admit that the cost for fitting the water-ballast tanks for
carrying oil (petroleum) should be at steamer's expense, as we
only, when accepting the terms of the charter, authorized the
shipper to carry petroleum in water-ballast tanks, even
never) thinking that besides our yielding to that condition
they would ask us to spend money for it. As for the supercargo, we agree to give him a first-cabin accommodation gratis
on board, but he shall have to pay to the steward of the boat
the food, as we do for 'the officers and crew. Marzo is now
here in dry-dock and loads end of this week for Baltimore.
"' Yours truly,
Az.Ait Y ASTIGA.MAGA.'
"Endorsement on margin: 'If delivery is accepted Baltimore, to whom must boat be delivered there, or whom Philadelphia or New York? -Please wire before steamer leaves this
port. As agreed, we suppose payment shall be made in London one month in advance.'
"1That on January 9th, 1886, said"Walker, Donald & Tay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

lor transmitted a copy of said letter to Hurlbut at New York,
and the latter, on January 18th, enclosed copy to Booth, the
broker for charterers.]
"Ninth. [That the steamship-Marzo sailed from Bilbao on
January 15th, 1886, for Philadelphia, where she duly arrived,
and on the 1'Sth of February was tendered to the charterers,
who accepted her as in their service under the charter from
the date of February 21st, 1886.
"That the charterers, after acceptance of the vessel on February.21st, loaded and despatched her to Cuba and return to
Philadelphia, at which latter port she arrived about March
18th, 1886.
"That upon her arrival at Philadelphia, Smith, the manager
of the charterers, went over to Philadelphia, and for the first
time stated to the master of the vessel that it was possible
something would be required to be done towards fitting the
tanks for petroleum on the voyage next after the one for which
she was loading, to which the-master replied that he must
be notified in time, because the owners understood the fitting
of the tanks would be at the cost of the charterers, to which
Smith replied, ' That will be arranged.'
"The vessel then for the second time proceeded to Cuba
and loaded thence for Boston, arriving at the latter port early
in May; that while the vessel was still in Boston the charterers wrote to the agents of the vessel at New York as follows:
"'NFw Yorxe, May 13th, 1886.
M'Messrs. Latasa & Co. City.
"'GENTLEmEN: We learn from the captain of the Marzo
that he will complete his discharge at Boston to-day and that
he will reach here to-morrow. We beg to again call your
attention to the fact that ivi are now prepared to ship oil in
bulk, and we shall expect the steamer to be put in proper condition to receive it this trip. We will gladly give you all the
assistance we possibly can to hurry forward the work, for we
do not wish the steamer to be unnecessarily detained any more
than you do.
R. A. C. SmiTH, Sec'y.'
"' Yours very truly,

COMPANIA BILBAINA v. SPANISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 493
Opinion of the Court.

"And on May 17th, 1886, again wrote as follows:
"'NEw YoRK, .ay 17th, 1886..
"'Messrs. Latasa & Co., agents for owners of S. S. Marzo.
"'DEAR SIRS: Please take notice that we are prepared to
ship -oil in bulk, in the water-ballast tanks of the steamship
Marzo, and that, according to the terms of the charter-party,
same Are to be fitted up for the purpose at owners' expense,
satisfactory to us. Until said tanks are put in the condition
contemplated by said charter-party the payment of the hire of
the vessel ceases.
R. A. C. SmTH, &c'y.'
"' Yours very truly,
." And also informed Latasa & Co. by another letter of the
'appointment of an engineer to supervise the fitting of the
tanks.'
"That the letter of May 17th, above recited, was the very
first intimation given to the owners, agents, brokers or
master of the steamship by the charterers that the latter had
not accepted the refusal of the owners to confirm the words
'at owners' expense,' inserted in the charter-party by ]urtbut
without authority, as above recited.]
"Tenth. At the time of such delivery her owners supposed
that the company was receiving her with the intention of
fitting up the tanks 'at its expense, and the Spanish-American
Company supposed 'that the owners were delivering her in
accordance with the terms of the charter-party which it had
signed.
":Eleventh. Upon her receipt and on or about February 21,
1886, the Spanish-Am~rican Company loaded and dispatched
her on a voyage to Cuba and returned to Philadelphia, at
whiJh latter port the vessel again arrived on or about March
8th. The Spanish Company again loaded her; she proceeded
t6 Cuba and thence to Boston, arriving at the latter port early
in May.
"Twelfth. Thereupon the Spanish Company notified the
ship's agents, Messrs. Latasa & Co., that it was prepared to
ship oil in bulk and should.expect the steamer to be put in
proper condition as to tanks, etc.,' to receive -it.

OCTOBER TERMI',

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

"Thirteenth. Discussion thereupon arose between the ship's
agents and the manager (Smith) of the Spanish Company, the
latter demanding that the owners should fit the tanks at their
expense and the owners expressing an entire willingness to fit
the tanks, but refusing to pay the expense, which correspondence resulted in the following agreement, viz.:
It is hereby mutually agreed by and between the owners
and the charterers of the steamship. Marzo that the said vessel
shall proceed to load oil and coal for Havana, Cuba, pending
the settlement of matters in dispute between said owners and
charterers, and that said loading shall not prejudice the claim
of either party to said charter-party.
"'(Signed)
R. A. C. S-.IITH, Sec'y.
"' \New York, May 26th, 1886.'
"And that a further arrangement was made by which $1500
was paid by the charterers on account of the vessel's hire that
had-already fallen due.
"Fourteenth. Upon return of the vessel to Philadelphia the
Spanish Company again renewed the demand that the tanks
should be fitted by the owners at their expense and refusing
to pay hire until it was done, and the owners, through the
ship's agents, again refused to pay the expense, but expressing
an entire willingness to fit the tanks at the expense of the
Spanish Company. Much correspondence ensued, but finally
the owners, after notifying the Spanish Company that they
would be held for the expense; to avoid further delay, proceeded to fit the tanks under the supervision of the engineer
appointed by said company. The fitting was completed on
July 30, 6,nd on that day the Spanish Company were notified
that as soon as the bills for the expense thereof were received
they would be presented 17 it for payment. They were so
presented a few days later, amounting in the aggregate to the
sum of $5520.91, but the said company refused to pay the
same, [or any portion of the hire remaining unpaid, which
hire amounts to the further sum of $5108.97, and have ever
since refused to do so.]
"Fifteenth. The sum of six hundred and seventy-five pounds

COMPANIA BILBAINA v. SPANISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 495
Opinion of the Court.

British sterling, per calendar month, payable monthly in advance, was a fair and reasonable consideration for the use of
said steamer during the time she was actually used by the said
Spanish Company.
"Sixteenth. The said company has paid the owners of the
Marzo for the use of said steamship at the said rate for said
time during which she was so used, except the sum of eighteen
hundred dollars which was due May 21, 1886, [but has not
paid any hire for the time employed in fitting the tanks, viz.,
from July 3 to August 3, 1886."]
The conclusions of law accompanying the original findings
of the Circuit Court were as follows:
"First. The charter-party signed December 18, 1885, was
not a valid contract, because the agent of the owners had no
authority to agree to the dispfted clauses, and his action in
signing a charter-party with such dlauses contained in it was
never ratified by said owners.
"Second. The Spanish-American Company never executed
a charter-party with those clauses omitted, nor ever authorized
any one to execute such a charter-party in their behalf.
"Third. The owners of the steamer never agreed with the
Spanish Company that they would fit up the tanks at their
own expense.
"Fourth. The Spanish Company never agreed with the
owners that they would pay for the expense which might be
incurred in fitting .up the tanks.
"Fifth. For the actual use of the vessel, which, with the
assent of the owners, the Spanish Company has enjoyed, it
should pay a fair and reasonable rent.
"Sixth. The libel and cross-libel should therefore be each
dismissed, except as respectsthe hire unpaid, (eighteen hundred
dollars, with interest from May 21, 1886,) for the time of the
actual use of the vessel by the Spanish Company.
"Seventh. The decision of the District Court is affirmed,
without costs of this court."
There were no further conclusions of law accompanying the
supplemental findings of fact.
The libellant has appealed to this court; but the respondent

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of -the Court.

has not appealed. The libellant contends, in this cohrt, that
it ought to recover all the items claimed in its libel, and not
merely the $1800 with interest from May 21, 1886.
It isquite clear that the libellant could not, in any event,
recover from the respondent any part of the expense of fitting
up the tanks'in the vessel to carry petroleum in bulk. There
was nothing in the acts of the parties to throw on the respondent any obligation to fit up the tanks, or to pay the expense
thereof, if the work should be done. The respondent never
promised to make or to pay for any such alteration. On the
contrary, i always refused to recognize any such liability on
its part, arid insisted it was the duty exclusively of .the libellant to pay therefor. If the libellant chose to fit up the tanks,
that was a voluntary act on its part in regard to work upon
its own property, for which it has no remedy against the
respondent.
It is contended, however, that, as the respondent refused to
retain or use the vessel unless the tanks were fitted up by the
libellant, as provided in the charter-party, an implied contract
arose; and that, as the libellant did such fitting up, the respondent must bear the expense. But it is found, in effect,
that the vespondent always and constantly refused to assdme
the expense, and insisted, as-the ground for the making of the
alterations, that, under the charter-party it was the duty of
the libellant to make them. No duress by the respondent is
alleged in the libel, or shown.
The position of the libellant is, that, although the charterparty is a binding instrument on the respondent, so far as
relates to the hire of the vessel, it has no effect against the
libellant as to. the provision contained in clause 18, as to the
fitting up of the water-ballast tanks at the expense of the libellant, in order to have petioieum shipped in bulk. If the libellant seeks to enforce any part of the charter-party, it must
rely on the instrument as a whole; and it cannot affirm the
charter-party for one purpose and repudiate it for another.
The respondent refused at all times to enter into an express
contract that it would pay for fitting up the tanks; and the
charter-party as executed indicated the respondent's inten-

COMPANIA BILBAINA v. SPANISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 497
-Opinion'of the Court.

tion not to do so. On the facts as found, no such contract
can be implied. The charter-party never became a binding
contract.
The contention of the libellant is, that the instrument
became binding on the parties, with the exception of the particular clauses referred to, if the libellant should dissent from'
those clauses. Thus the same effect is claimed as if the charter-party had been returned to the persons who had signed it,
and the clauses referred to had been erased by mutual consent.
But if there is any part of it in regard to which the minds of
the parties have not met, the entire instrument is a nullity, as
to all its clauses. Eliason v. Renshaw, 4 Wheat. 225; Jnsurance Oompany v. Young's Administrator,23 Wall. 85; Tilley
v. County of Cook, 103 U. S. 155; ffinneapolis & St. Louis
Railway v. Columbus Rolling .Mill, 119 U. S. 149, 151.
Nor did the delivery of the vessel to the respondent, and her
acceptance by the latter, constitute a hiring of her under the
charter-party as it would stand with the disputed clauses
omitted. The proposition of Hurlbut to the .respondent, on
December 19, 1885, was that if the libellant did not agree to
the two disputed clauses, those clauses should "be arranged
or compromised by mutual consent, by cable." The libellant
was apprised of that proposition prior to December 31, 1885,
as on that day the London brokers of the libellant, Walker,
Donald & Taylor, wkote to Hlurlbut, the agent of the libellant, the letter of that date. On January 4, 1886, the libellant
wrote to Walker, Donald & Taylor the letter-of that date,
and the latter, on January 9, 1886, sent a copy of that letter
to Hurlbut at New Y6rk, and he, on January 18, 1886, enclosed a copy of it to Booth, the broker for the respondent..
Without any direct communication with the respondent, and
without receiving any communication from it, the vessel was
dispatched to Philadelphia and tendered to the respondent on
February 18, 1886, not a word being said at the time to
the respondent as to the disputed clauses. On these facts, the
respondent had a right to conclude that the dissent of the
libellant from the two disputed clauses was not insisted upon.
It was i'mportant to the-respondent to know promptly if the
VOL. CXLVi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

charter-party which had, been signed was binding; and it was
the duty of the libellant, before delivering the vessel to the
respondent, to have the latter understand distinctly that the
libellant did not deliver .her under. .the charter-party which
had been signed. It is expressly found, in the tenth original
finding of fact, that the respondent, at the time the vessel
was delivered to it, supposed that the libellant was delivering
her in accordance with the terms of the charter-party which
the respondent had signed. Under these circumstances, the
delivery of the vessel to the respondent by her master was,
in legal effect, the adoption by the libellant of, the existing
charter-pafty, and not an acceptance of the vessel by the
respondent with the omission from the charter-party of
the two clauses in question. Drakely v. Gregg, 8 Wall. 242,
267.
The legal effect of the transaction was that the libellaht
thus waived its former objections to the charter-party whether
it intended to do so or not. It-follows that the libellant cannot claim rent for the use of the vessel during the time she
was undergoing alterations: As the libellant was bound to
pay the cost of fitting up the tanks, if it did the work, it cannot recover the rent for the time during which such work was
being done. The loss of the use of the vessel by the respondent during the time the alterations were being made was a
part of the expense of fitting up the tanks, the eighteenth
clause of the charter-party meaning that the tanks were to be
fitted at the expense of the libellant before the delivery of the
vessel under the charter-party. No interpretation of the charter-party can be allowed which would permit the libellant to
take its own time to fit up the tanks and yet collect full rent
from the respondent during the time that work was being
d6ne, 'and while the respondent was necessarily deprived of
the use of the vessel.
Moreover, the respondent, insisting that the libellant should
fit up at its own expense the water-ballast tanks, delivered the
vessel back to the libellant, which accepted her for that purpose and kept her for a month. This necessarily stopped the
running of the rent under the charter-party. The respondent

SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Syllabus.

can be liable to pay rent for the use of the vessel only while
she was in its service. The libellant recovered all that. it was
entitled to recover.
Decree acffrmed, but

oithout interest, and with costs.

SCOTT v. ARMS.TRONG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

FARMERS'

AND

MERCHANTS' STATE
ARMSTRONG.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED

STATES

COURT

BANK v.

OF APPEALS

FOR

THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nes. 53, 1025.

Argued November 18, 21, 1892.-

Decided December 12, 1892.

The closing of a national bank by order of the examiner, the appointment
of a, receiver, and its dissolution by decree of a Circuit Court necessarily
transfer the assets of the bank to the receiver.
The receiver in such case takes the assets in trust for creditors, and, in the
absence of a statute to the contrarj, subject to all claims and defences
that might have been interposed against the insolvent corporation.
The ordinary equity rule of set-off in case of insolvency is that, where the
mutual obligations have grown out of the same transaction, insolvency;
on the one hand, juctifies the set-off of the debt due, on the other; and
there is nothing in the statutes relating to national banks which prevents the application of that rule to the receiver of an insolvent national bank under circumstances like those in this case.
A customer of a national bank who in good faith borrows money of the
bank, gives his note therefor due at a future day, and deposits the amount
borrowed to be drawn against, any balance to be applied to the payment
of the note when due, has an equitable (but not a legal) right, in case of
the insolvency and dissolution of the bank and the appointment of
a receiver before the maturity of the note, to have the balance to his
credit at the time of the insolvency applied to the payment of his indebtedness on the note.
In this case this court reverses the judgment of the court below, declining
to sustain It upon a jurisdictional ground not passed upon by that court.

