OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

either the rulings of the court were not erroneous, or else no
sufficient exceptions were taken to them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirnzed.

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
DUNNINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 51, 52. Argued November 18, 1892. -Decided

December 8,1802.

The estate forfeited by proceedings to judgment under the conflscation
act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, c. 195, and the joint resolution of the
same date, 12 Stat. 627, is the life estate of the offender; the fee remaining in him after the confiscation, but without power of alienation until
his disability is removed.
The conflicting cases on the subject of proceedings under that act reviewed,
and Illinois Central Railroad v. Bosworth, 133 U. S. 92, and Jenkins v.
Collard,145 U. S. 546, followed.
A judicial condemnation, for the use of the United States, of land in Washington which had been so confiscated and sold, made during the lifetime
of the offender from whom it had been taken under the confiscation act,
is held to operate upon the fee as well as upon the life estate, assuming
that due and legal notice of the proceedings for the condemnation were
given.
The appraised value of the property in such proceedings for condemnation
repre ients the whole fee, and the interests, both present and prospectlvc,
of every person concerned in it.
By the payment into court of the amount of the appraised value of the
property so condemned, the United States was discharged from its whole
-liability, and was not even entitled to notice of the order for the distribution of the money.

THIs was a petition to recover from the United States the
sum of $12,644, the alleged value of lot 3, square 688, in the city
of Washington, condemned for the enlargement of the Capitol
grounds. The following facts were found by the Court of
Claims:
1. Charles W. C. Dunnington, the ancestor of the claimants,

UNITED STATES v.-DU1NINGTON.
Statement of the Case.

was, on April 2, 1852, and subsequently up to June 29, 1863,
seized or well entitled in fee simple of and to lot No. 3, in
square No. 688, on the plats of the squares and-Tots of the city
of Washington, with the improvements, buildings, rights, privileges, appurtenances and heriditaments, containing 5572
square feet. Said Dunnington, the ancestor, died August 11,
1887, leaving as his sole heirs the claimants in this case, as set
out in their petition.
2. May 12, 1863, proceedings in rem, under the confiscation
act of July 17, 1862, and joint resolution of the same date, 12
Stat. p. 589, c., 195, and p. 627, were begun by the defendants in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to confiscate said
lot as the property of Dunnington, who was in rebellion against
the United States. Uider these proceedings the lot was duly
condemned as enemy's property, and exposed to public sale,
at which A. R. Shepherd became the purchaser and entered
into possession.
3. Under the act of May 8, 1872, 17 Stat. 83, c. 140, ยง 6, proceedings were commenced in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, at the instance of the defendant, for the acquisition of land to enlarge the grounds around the Capitbl, in
which contemplated enlargement said lot No. 3 was included.
June 11, 1872, the Secretary of the Interior informed the
court that he was unable to obtain the titles to said lands by
mutual agreement with the owners. Thereupon the court appointed commissioners "to make a just and equitable appraisement of the cash value of the several interests of each and
every owner of the real estate and improvements necessary to
be taken for public use, and make return to said court."
October 16, 1872, said commissioners filed their report, in
which the cash value of said lot No. 3 is appraised at $1.50
a square foot, and the improvements thereon at $1500. They
also report that said -lot contained 5572 square feet, thus making the whole value of lot and improvements $9858.
On the same day said appraisement was approved and
adopted by the court, and the same was reported to the Secretary of the Interior.
March 15, 1873, the court made the following order:

OCTOBER -TERMT, 1892.
Argument for Dunnington.

"Whereas, it appears to the court that the owner or owners
of each of said lbts and parts of lots have failed and neglected
to demand of the Secretary of the Interior the said appraised
cash value df said'lots and parts of lots, respectively, for fifteen
days after the appraisement thereof by this court, it is therefore ordered that leave be, and is hereby, granted to said relator
to deposit the said appraised values of said lots and parts of
lots in this court, to the credit of the owners thereof, respectively, subject to be drawn therefrom only upon an order of
this court.for payment to the parties entitled; and it is further
ordered that upon the depositing of,the money by the relator
as hereinbefore provided, and notice thereof filed with the
clerk of this court, possession of the property for which said
deposit is made may be taken by the United States."
4. March 31, 1873, in pursuance of'the above order, a certificate of deposit for the amount of said appraisement was
filed with the court by the Secretary of the Interior.
Thereupon defendants took possession of said lot, and the
same is now embraced in the ornamental grounds about the
Capitol.
5. April 3, 1873, upon the petition of the heirs of Martin
King, deceased, the appraised value of said lot and improvements, amounting to $9858, was, by order of the court, paid
to William F. Mattingly, attorney of record for said heirs.
Said King was the vendee, through several intermediate
conveyances, of said A. R. Shepherd.
6. The cash value of said lot No. 3 on August 14, 1887, was
at the rate of 82 a square foot, $11,144; improvements, $1500;
making together $12,644.
Upon the foregoing finding of facts the court decided, as a
conclusion of law, that the claimants were entitled to rccover
$9858, for which judgment was entered. 24 Ct. C1. 404.
Both parties appealed to this court.
M'. George A. Zing (with whom was -Mr. Charles TT
Ho rnor on the brief) for Dunnington's heirs.
From the time of the forfeiture of the estate under the con-fiscation act in 1863, until the 14th day of August, 1887,

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
Argument for Dunnington.

neither Charles W. C. Dunnington nor his prospective or expectant heirs, nor any one of them, retained any right, title or
interest, which could be asserted in any court of law or equity,
in or to the said property, or any part thereof. Upon his
death, at the latter date, the forfeiture of the property determined, and the fee simple vested eo instanti in the claimants,
his heirs at law.
It was the duty of the 'United States as plaintiffs in the condemnation proceedings to -have taken prpper steps by application to'the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for the
payment of the sum fixed by the appraisers as the value of
the property to the persons entitled thereto by either apportioning the same between the then tenants -per autre vie and
those who should appear after the death of Dunnington to. be
entitled to the property, or for the investment of the capital
sum - the interest or rents thereof to be paid to said tenants
.perantre vie during the lifetime of the-cestui que vie, and for
the ultimate delivery of the capital after the death of said
cestui que vie to those who might be entitled thereto, it being
at that date impossible to ascertain with any approach to certainty who such persons would be.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia not having
taken such proceedings, and having under misapprehensions
then prevalent as to the effect of the confiscation act paid the
whole of the appraised value to the tenants-for life, the present
claimants are not barred of their right by such action, but may
seek their remedy in the Court of Claims under the constitutional duty of the United States to compensate for private
property taken for public uses.
No rights having accrued to these claimants enforcible in
any court until the death of their ancestor on the 14th of
August, 1887, they are not chargeable with laches by reason
of their non-assertion of such rights at an earlier.date, nor hald
the statute of limitations barred their claim.
If these propositions are sustained their inevitable result
will be a judgment in favor of these claimants for the value of
their property thus taken for public uses.
In Bigelow v. Forret,9 Wall. 339, 350, this court had occa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Dunnington.

sion to consider the effect of a decree of forfeiture and sale
under the conifiscation act of July 17, 1862, and joint resolution of the same date. Construing the act and the resolution
together this court held, that "they admit of no doubt that all
which could under the law become the property of the United
States or could be sold by virtue of a decree of condemnation
and order of sale, was a right to the property seized, terminating with the life of the person for whose act it had been
seized."
This decision was rendered at the December term, 1869, of
this court. It was at first supposed by many to hold that what
was forfeited was a life estate carved out of q fee, thus divesting the offender of his estate for life, but leaving'in him the
fee simple which was not only descendible to his heirs, but which
he could dispose of and convey as he might any other property.
It was upon this ground that the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in TYallach" v. Fan .iswick, 1 MacArthur,
73, held that even after a decree of confiscation of the property
the confederate might execute a valid mortgage or conveyance
of the property; which, however, would only take effect at the
termination of his own life. This view, however, did not meet,
the approval of this court; for, on appeal, the decree was reversed. . Wallach v. Fan,.Riswick, 92 U. S. 202.
This decision was made at the October term, 1875. In French
v.TMade, 102 U. S. 132, 134, decided October term, 1880, it was
said, p. 134, referring to it: "This case has Veen followed
many times since. Pike v. TMassell, 94 U. S. 711. It must
now be considered as the settled rule of decision in this court."
We do not understand that Tallach v. Van Riswick, followed
as this court has itself stated it to have bean many times, and
which had as lon gago as 1880 become the settled rule of decision
in this court, has ever been overruled, whatever distinctions or
limitations may have been made as to its application and effect.
Applying it to this case, it could not be known with any approach to certainty who would be hig heirs at the time of his
death, nor was it by any means certain that those who stood
in the position of probable, prospective or presumptive heirs,
would so remain till he died. The interest of an heir during

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the lifetime of his ancestor is not recognized by the law.
.tereo est hteres viventis. Hutchins v. flutchins, 7 Hill, 104;
Jackson v. Eniffen, 2 Johns. 31, 36; S. C. 3 Am. Dec. 390;
Doe dem. Winter v. Perratt,5 B. & 0. 48.
Impossible, then, as it was to know who would be the persons interested in the estate after the forfeiture should have
terminated by the death of the offender, how can it in justice
be contended that it was the duty of either Dunnington or his
children to intervene in the condeinnation proceedings for the
protection of their interests, - interests neither vested nor
contingent, not recognized by the law, and which could not
possibly come into being until the death of their ancestor, an
event whose date could not be foretold, and which did not in
fact occur for many years afterwards?
Manifestly it was the duty of the United States as plaintiffs,
or of the court upon its own motion, to see to the interests of
these claimants or of such as there might be. in future times,
and to have had the purchase-money so secured that upon the
termination of the forfeiture by the death of the offender,
Dunnington, the fee-simple price of the property would be
ready for delivery to the heirs. In re Phillips' Trusts, L. R.
6 Eq. 250; .74 re Pfleger, L. R. 6 Eq. 426; Delalleau, Trait6
de l'Expropriation, 246, ยง 891.
Having thus made payment in its own wrong, and in prejudice of the rights of these claimants, the government cannot
escape liability on the plea that they should have intervened.
No intervention was possible. To hold against these parties
would in effect permit the government to deprive them of
their property without a day in court or an opportunity to be
heard - a thing abhorrent to the judicial sense of justice, and
expressly prohibited by Art. V of the constitutional amendments. _Uocveigh v. United States, 11 Wall. 259; Lasere v.
Rochereau, 17 Wall. 437; Windsor- v. Ml Veigh, 93 U. S. 274;
Enminger v. Powers, 108 U. S. 292, 301.
-Yr. Solicitor General for the United States.
MR. JusTic. BRowN, after stating the case as above reporited,
delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

This was a proceeding by the heirs at law of .a person formerly in rebellion against the United States to recover the
value of a lot of land, which had first been confiscated as
enemy's property, and then condemned, in the hands of the
purchaser, for the use of the government and for the enlargement of the Capitol grounds.
If the case were the simple one assumed by the claimants of
a piece of private property taken for the public use without
compensation to the owners, their right to 'recover its value
would be beyond question; but there are other facts which
put the case in a somewhat different light. Under the confiscation act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, c. 195, the lot had
been seized as the property of a public enemy and sold to
Shepherd; by these proceedings the estate of Charles W. C.
Dunnington, the ancestor of the claimants, was forfeited and
vested in the purchaser. There remained, however, the reversionary interest, which upon his demise would become vested
in these heirs.
During his life, and on May 8, 1812, Congress passed an act
for the enlargement of the Capitol grounds, by taking in
square No. 688, which included the lot in question. 17 Stat.
61, 83, c. 140, ยง 6. By section '[ it was made "the duty of the
Secretary of the Interior to purchase, from the owner or
owners thereof, at such price, not exceeding its actual cash
value, as may be mutually agreed on, . . . such private
property as may be necessary for carrying this act into effect."
iBy section 8 it was directed "that if the Secretary of the
Interior shall not be able to agree with the owner or owners
upon the price . . . it shall be his duty to make
.
.
application to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
which court is hereby authoized and required, upon such
application, in such mode, and under such rules and regulations as it may adopt, to make a just and equitable appraisemenf of the cash value of the several interests of each and
every owner. of the real estate," etc. By section 9: "that the
fee simple of all premises so appropriated . . . shall, upon
payment to the owner or owners, respectively, of the appraised
value, or in case the said owner or owners refuse or neglect for
-

UNITED STATES v. DUNNIINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

fifteen days after the appraisement

.

.

to demand the

same, .
upon depositing the said appraised value in the
said court to the credit of such owner or owners, respectively,
be vested in the United States." Section 11 provided "that no
delay in making an assessment of compensation, or in taking
possession, shall be occasioned by any doubt which may arise
as to the ownership of the property, or any part thereof, or as
to the interests of the respective owners; but in such cases the
court shall require a deposit of the money allowed as compensation for the whole property or the part in dispute. In all
cases, as soon as the United States shall have paid the compensation assessed, or secured its payment, by a deposit of money,
under the order of the court, possession of the property may
be taken."
The Secretary of the Interior, being unable to agree with
the owners upon a price, on June 11, 1872, informed the court
to that effect, and applied for the appointment of commissioners to make a just and equitable appraisement of the cash
value of the several interests of each and every owner of the
real estate and improvements, etc. On October 16, 1872, the
commissioners filed their report, appraising the property at
$9858. This appraisement was approved, and on March 15,
1873, the court.made an order in the terms of the act, reciting
that the owners had neglected to demand of the Secretary of
the Interior the appraised cash values of said lots for fifteen
days after the appraisement thereof by the court, and directing
that leave be granted to deposit the appraised values in court
to the credit of the owners, subject to be drawn therefrom
only upon the order of the court for payment to the parties
entitled, and that upon the deposit of the money and notice to
the clerk, possession of the property might be taken by the
United States. In pursuance of this order the .money was.
deposited, and the United States took possession of the lot,
which is now embraced within the ornamental grounds of the
Capitol. Three days thereafter the entire appraised value of
the lot, viz., $9858, was paid to the heirs of Martin King, who
had become vested, through several intermediate conveyances,
with the title acquired at the confiscation sale.

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Opinion of the Court.

1. It is insisted by the claimants, in this connection, that
these proceedings in condemnation were a nullity as to them;
that from the time the estate was forfeited under the confiscation act until August 14, 1887, neither Charles W. C. Dunningtoa nor his heirs retained any right, title or interest in
this property which could be asserted in a court of law or
equity; that neither of them had any day in court in the condemnation proceedings, nor was it in law possible for them in
any way to intervene br assert any claim whatever. By the
joint resolution accompanying the cohfiscation act, (12 Stat.
627,) no proceedings under such act could be considered "to
work a forfeiture of the real estate of the offender beyond his
natural life." The status of the fee between the time the forfeiture took effect and the termination of the life estate, by
the death of the offender, when his heirs took title to the

property, has been the subject of much discussion and of some
conflict of opinion in this court.
In the first case that arose under this act, Bigelow v. Forrest,
9 Wall. 339, iM:r. Justice Strong suggested anomalies presented
by the forfeiture of lands of which the offender was seized in
fee, during his life and no longer, without any corruption of
his heritable blood, and declined to inquire how, in such a
case, descent could be cast upon his heir notwithstanding he
had no seisin at the time of his death. In Day v. DrIicou, 18
Wall. 156, it was held that it was not the property itself of
the offender which was made the subject of the seizure, even
during his life, but it was his interest in the property, whatever that interest might be, and if he had, previously to his
offence, mortgaged the land to a bona fde mortgagee, the
mortgage was not divested, and the sale under the confiscation
act passed the life estate subject .to the charge.
The subject was considered at length in the case of Mlallach
v. fan .Riswic, 92 U. S. 202, which was a bill for the redemption of a deed of trust of property in Washington subsequently confiscated, given by Wallach; a public enemy, to
secure the payment of a promissory note. Wallach's interest
in the property was, therefore, an equity of redemption, which
the purchaser at the confiscation sale acquired and held with

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the security of the deed of trust, which he had also purchased.
Wallach, having returned to Washington after the war, made
a deed purporting to convey the lot in fee, with covenants of
general warranty, to Van Riswick, the purchaser at the confiscation sale. The case stood in this condition until Wallach
(lied, when his heirs, claiming that, after the confiscation proceedings, nothing remained in him which could be the subject of sale or conveyance, filed a bill to redeem the deed of
trust, which was admitted to be still a valid lien upon the
property. This court decided that the heirs had a right to
redeem, holding in effect that, after the confiscation proceedings, the offender had no interest in the thing confiscated,
which he could convey, or any power over it which he could
exercise in favor of another. It was thought that Congress
could not have intended to leave in the enemy a vested interest
in the property which he might sell, and with the proceeds of
which he might aid in carrying on the war against the government; and support was found for that conclusion in the
fact that the sixth section of the confiscation act declared that
all sales, transfers or conveyances of any such property should
be null and void. The question whether the fee remained in
abeyance pending the life of the offender, or, if not, in whom
it was vested, though discussed, was not decided.
In Pike v. Wassell, 94 U. S. 711, the question arose whether
the heirg of the person whose estate had been confiscated
could maintain an action to require the:'purchaser to keep
down the taxes during the life of the offender. The defendants insisted that until the death of the offender the children
had no interest in the property, and, therefore, could not
appear to protect the inheritance. It was held to be true, as
a general rule, that so long as the ancestor lives the heirs have
no interest in his estate.; but without undertaking to determine where the fee dwelt during the life estate, it-was held
that the heirs had an estate in expectancy, and as there was
no one else to look after the interests of t e succession, they
might properly be permitted to do whatever was necessary to
protect it from forfeiture or incumbrance. The case was held
a proper one for a court of equity to interfere and grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

proper relief.

It is evident from the language of the opinion

in this case that the necessity of having some one to represent
the fee and to protect the expectant estate of the heirs was
present to the mind of the court. The question decided in
Wallach v. 'an Rsiwick was raised again in -Frenchv. Wade,
102 U. S. 132, and the former case was unequivocally affirmed.
The question what became of the fee was also discussed in
Illinois Central Railroadv.Bosworth., 133 U, S. 92, 102, 103,
and it was intimated,.as a logical consequence from the decision in Shields v. ,Schif,124 U. S. 351, that the heirs took as
heirs, and not by donation from the government; "that after
the confiscation of the property, the naked fee,

.

.

'sub-

ject, for the lifetime of the offender, to the interest or usufruct
of the purchaser at the confiscation sale, remained in the
offender himself; otherwise," said Mr. Justice Bradley, "how
could his heirs take it from him by inheritance? But, by reason of his disability to dispose of, or touch it, or affect it in
any manner whatsoever, it remained, as before stated, a mere
dead estate, or in a condition of suspended animation. We
think that this is, on the whole, the most reasonable view.
There is no, corruption of blood; the offender can transmit by
descent; his heirs take from him by descent; why, then, is it
not most rational to conclude that the -dormant and suspended
fee has continued in him?" It was further held in that case
that if the disability of the offender be removed by a pardon
or armistice, it restored him to the control of his property, so
far as the same had never been forfeited or never become
vested in another person.
In Jenkins v. Collard, 145 U: S.546, 560, the estate of a
public enemy was confiscated and sold. Subsequently to the
sale ho -returned to Cincinnati, gave a deed in fee simple with
covenants of general warranty, and it was held that he and
all persons claiming under him were thereby estopped from
asserting the title to premises, as against the grantee, or
'from conveying it to any other parties. It was further held
that no disposition was ever made by the government -of the
reversion of the estate of the offending party; that it must,
therefore, be construed to have remained in him, but without

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

power to alienate it during his life; that the covenant of seisin
in his deed estopped him and his heirs from asserting title to
the premises against the grantee; and that the disability, if
any, which had rested upon him against disposing of the fee
was removed by the proclamation of pardon and amnesty of
December 25, 1868, and he stood, with reference to that estate,
precisely as though no confiscation proceedings had ever been
had. "The amnesty and pardon, in removing the disability,
if any, resting upon him, respecting that estate, enlarged his
estate, the benefit of which enured equally to his grantee."
Upon the whole, we think the doctrine was too broadly
stated in Trallac/ v. 'Fa -Riswick,that the effect of the confiscation was to divest the owner of every vestige of proprietary right over the property, and that the sounder view is
that intimated in Illinois Central Railroad v. Bosworth, and
Jenkins v. Collard,that the estate forfeited is the life estate
of the offender, and that the fee remains in him, but without
.the power of alienating it during his life, unless the disability
be removed. The theory of the common law, that the fee
can never be in abeyance, but must reside somewhere, though
seemingly somewhat fanciful, is founded upon a cobsideration
of good sense, that there shall always be some one in existence
to represent it in actions brought for its recovery, and to pro,tect the interest of the heirs. In treating of this subject, Mr.
Fearne, in his work on Contingent Remainders, vol. 2, sec. 60,
book I. c. 3, ยง 1, observes, "that if a person limits a freehold
interest in the land, by way of use or devise, .vhich be may
do, though he could not do so at the common law, to commence infuturo, without making any disposition of the intermediate legal seisin,

.

.

.

the legal seisin, property or

ownership, except such part thereof, if any, as is comprised
within a prior disposition of a vested interest, of course remains
in the grantor and his heirs, or the heirs at law of the testator,
until the arrival of the period, when according to the terms of
the future limitation; it is appointed to reside in the person to
whom such interest inzfuturo is limited." That the fee is not
forfeited by the confiscation is also the logical deduction from
the ruling in Shields v. Schiff,.124 U. S. 351, that the heirs

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Coure

take by descent from the offender and not by donation from
the government, inasmuch as, if there be no vestige of the
estate left in the ancestor, it would be impossible for them to
take by descent from him. This, too, disposes of the theory
that the fee resides in the United States in trust for the heirs.
A necessary inference from' the position assumed by the
claimants, that neither Dunnington. nor his heirs retained any
interest in the forfeited estate, nor any right to intervene in
these proceedings, is, that the government can obtain no title
by condemnation to confiscated property during the life of the
offender; that it can only condemn his life estate in the hands
of the purchaser; and that, upon the termination of such estate, the heirs can recover the property, or at least compel the
government to institute new proceedings for its condemnation.
Such a construction would be intolerable. The march of
public improvement cannot thus be stayed by uncertainties,

complications or disputes regarding the title to property
sought to be condemned; and the language of section 8 of the
act of May 8, 1872, requiring the appraisement to be made of
the several interests of each and every owner of the real estate,
evidently contemplated an investiture of the entire title and of
the interest of every owner, present and prospective, in the
United States. We are, therefore, of opinion that the condemnation in this case operated upon the fee as well as upon
the life estate, and as the presumption is, that due and legal
notice was given of the proceedings, the appraisement was
valid and binding upon Dunnington and his heirs. Assuming
that, after the confiscation proceedings,.he held only the naked
fee without the power of alienation, the amnesty and pardon
proclamation of the President of December 25, 1868, before
the proceedings to condemn, removed his disability in this
particular, and restored to him the right to make such use of
the remainder as he saw fit.
2. A further question remains to be considered with regard
to the proceedings taken after the payment of the money into
court. It is insisted by the claimants that it was the duty of
the United States, as plaintiffs in the condemnation proceedings, to take proper steps for the payment of the sum fixed by

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the appraisers to the persons entitled thereto, by apportioning
the sum between the tenants of the life estate and the heirs of
Dunnington, or by the investment of the entire amount in
interest bearing securities, for the benefit of the tenants of the
life estate, until its termination, and for the ultimate delivery
of the same to the heirs. It is a necessary deduction from our
conclusion upon the other branch of the case that the appraised
value of the property represents the whole fee, and the interests, both present and prospective, of' every person concerned in the property, and such are the authorities. Tide
Water Canal Co. v. Archer, 9 G. & Johns. 479, 525; Ross v.
Adams, 4 Dutcher, (28 N. J. Law,) 160. The money, when
deposited, becomes in law the property of the party entitled to
it, and subject to the disposal of the court. In re New York
Central &a. Railroad, 60 N. Y. 116; South Park Com'issioners v. Todd, 112 Illinois, 379.
It is evident that the gist of the petitioners' complaint in
this connection lies in the order of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia of April 3, 1873, directing the payment
of the entire appraised value of the lot to the heirs of Martin
King, the vendee of Shepherd, who had purchased the life
estate of Dunnington under the confiscation proceedings.
Neither Dunnington, who was still living, nor his heirs, the
present claimants, appear to have intervened in the condemnation proceediogs, or to have raised a question as to the
propriety of this payment. The proceedings, however, appear
to have been carried on in strict conformity with the act,
which required the Secretary of the Interior, in case he should
be unable to purchase at private sale, to apply to the court for
an appraisement, and in case the owner neglected to demand
of him the appraised value within fifteen days, to pay the
same into court, subject to being paid out to the persons
entitled to it. Assuming that the payment of the entire
amount to the heirs of King was a mistake, it is difficult to
see how the United States can be held responsible for it. The
courts of the United States are in no sense agencies of the
Federal government, nor is the latter liable for their errors or
mistakes. they are independent tribunals, created and sup-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ported, it is true, by the United 5tates; but the government
stands before them in no other position than that of an ordinary litigant. If the Federal government should proceed in
a state court to condemn a piece of land for a public building,
under a similar statute, and should pay the appraised value
into court, and the court should award the money to the
wrong party, it could not be' seriously claimed that the government should pay it a second time. So, if a railway company should proceed to condemn land in this city for the
purposes of a station, it would be completely exonerated from
all further obligation by the payment of the appraised value
to the depositary designated by the law under which the
proceedings were taken. What was the United States to do
after the deposit was made, to protect itself ? It had discharged its entire liability by the payment into court, and was
not entitled to notice even of the order for the distribution of
the money. If the Attorney General had appeared, it might
have been charged that he was a mere interloper, and that
only the owners of the land were interested in the distribution
of its proceeds. We are not without authority upon this
subject. In a well-considered case in New Je-sey, Crane v.
City of Elizabeth, 36 N. J. Eq. (9 Stewart) 339, 343, it was
held that the compensation fixed for the taking of certain
land for streets was to include the value of all the interests,
and was to be paid to the owner of the land if no other claimant intervened; and that, if in any case such owner ought not
to receive the whole, timely resort must be had to the court
of chancery, which would see to the equitable distribution of
the fund. "The price to be paid.," said the court, "by the
city is to be the full value of all rights which may be impaired :for the public benefit, and this is to be ascertained
only after notice, not specially to individuals who alone may
appear to guard their claims, but generally by the publicity
which attends the doings of the council, and by newspaper
advertisement, which will reach all alike, and under which all
may be protected. The action of the city authorities has
thus the distinctive quality of a proceeding in r'.em, a taking,
not of the rights of designated persons in the thing needed,

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

but of the thing itself, with a general monition to all persons
having claims in the thing. When, by the appraisement of
the commissioners, the price of the thing is fixed, that price
stands in place of the thing appropriated, and represents all
interests acquired .
...
But if, in any special case, this
owner ought not, in, equity, to receive the fund, the Court of
Chancery will, at the insta nce of any interested complainant,
take charge of its proper distribution, and so secure those
particular equities which the generality of the statute has left
without express protection." In the case of -Heirsof John Van
Forst, 1 Green Ch. (2 N. J. Eq.) 292, it was held that when the
amount to be paid by a railroad company for land taken, was
directed by the statute to be paid into court for the use of the
owner or owners, no notice to the company was necessary, of
an application by the owners for an order upon the clerk to pay
over the money so deposited. A like ruling was made in Hfaswell v. Vermont CentralRailway, 23 Vermont, 228, wherein the
court observed that the purpose of the statute was to give railroad companies a certain and expeditious mode of relieving
'themselves from any fdrther 'responsibility in the matter, by
depositing the money adcording to the order of the chancellor;
and that the railroad company, though cited by the claimant,
was not bound to appear, and that, having no interest in the
matter, it had no right to appeal the case. See also Railroad
Company v. Prussing,96 Illinois, 203; Columbia &c. Bridge
Co. v. Geise, 34: N. J. Eq. 268; and Cherokee Hfation v. Zansas Railway, 135 U. S.641. We think the United States discharged its entire duty to the owners of this property by the
payment of the amount awarded by the commissioners inito
court, and that, if there were any error in the distribution of
the same, it is not chargeable to the government.
We do not wish to be understood as holding that there was
necessarily an error in paying the money to the heirs of
King. That question is! not before us for consideration, and
we are not called uplon to express an opinion with regard
to it.
The case is doubtless a hardship for the claimants, but it
would be a still greater hardship if the government, without
VOL. cxLvi--23

OCTOBER TERMA,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

fault upon its part, were obliged to pay the value of this lot
a second time.
The judgment of the court below must be,
.Revesed, and the case remarded, with directions to dismiss
the Petition.

CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN1 RAILWAY
COMPANY v. OSBORNE.
SAME 'v. JUNOD.
ORIGINAL.
Nos. 1238, 1239.

Submitted November 21, 1892. -Decided December 5, 1890.

In each of these cases defendant in error sued plaifitift" in error under the
Interstate Commerce act, to recover alleged overcharges on the transportation of corn, and recovered judgment, to each of which judgments
defendant sued out a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The cases being heard there the judgment in each was reversed, upon the
ground that the jury should have been instructed to find a verdict for
the defendant, and the cases were remanded for further proceedings in
accordance therewith. On petitions for writs of certiorari to the Court
of Appeals to bring up the records and proceedings, Held, that the petitions should be denied.

TIIRSE were petitions for writs of certiorari. The petitions
set forth that the petitioners had commenced suit in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Iowa to recover
from the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company
damages for certain violations of the Interstate Commerce
law of February 4, 1$87, 24 Stat. 379, c. 104; that such proceedings took place therein that the plaintiffs recovered judgments against the defendant; that the defendant sued out
writs of error to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals;
that a hearing was had there; tfhat 'the judgments were
reversed; and that the court held that on the facts as they
appeared the iurv should have been instructed to find a

