BUTLER v. GORELEY.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

BUTLER v. GORELEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STAT
No.20.

OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Argued November 21, 22, 1892.-Decided Decemoer D,1892.

One T., of Boston, went into insolvency in Massachusetts, in June, 1883,
and a deed of assignment was made to his assignee in July, 1883. In
June, 1863, T. was on board an American vessel, which was captured
and burned by the Georgia, a tender of the Confederate cruiser Alabama,
and thereby lost his personal effects and sustained other losses. Under
the act of Congress-of June 5, 1882, c. 195'(22 Stat. 98), T.,.in January,
1883, Illed a claim, in the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims,
claiming compensation for his losses, and the court gave a judgment in
his favor. In February, 1885, a draft for the amount was issued by the
Treasury, payable to the order of T. and was sent to, and received at
Boston. T. died at Boston four days later, intestate. In March, 1885,
T.'s widow was appointed his administratrix by the Probate Court of
the District of Columbia. In April, 1885, she gave a power of attorney
to one B. to endorse the draft. He did so and collected the amouut,
which he retained. The assignee in insolvency sued B. in a state court
of Massachusetts, to recover the amount and had judgment. On a writ
of error from this Court, held,
(.)
The decision and award of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims was conclusive as to the amount to be paid on the
claim, but not as to the party entitled to receive it; and the claim
was property which passed to the assignee in insolvency, under
the assig-nment to him, although it was 'made prior to the decision of the Court of Commissioners;
(2.) The claim and its proceeds were assets within the jurisdiction of
Massachusetts;
(3.) B. was liable to the assignee ift insolvency;
(4.) § 3477 of the Revised Statutes did not apply to the assignment in
insolvency;
(5.) The insolvency law of Massachusetts was not unconstitutional;
(6.) It was not necessary, after the repeal of the bankruptcy act of
1867, that the insolvency, statute of Massachusetts should have
been reinacted in order to become operative.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin.

Butler for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1892.
*Opinion of the Court.

Kr. George E. Jacobs and 3fr. Charles levi W'oodbury for
defendant in error. Xr. F H. I. Andrews was with _r.
TYoodbu'y on the brief.
Mr. JUSTICE BLA.TOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of contract, brought in the Superior Court
for Suffolk County, Massachusetts, by writ, dated October 20,
1886, returnable on the first Monday of November, 1886, by
Charles P. Goreley, assignee in insolvency of the estate of
Isaac H. Taylor, an insolvent debtor, against Benjamin F.
Butler, to r~cover the sum of $5874.15, and interest thereon
from April 6, 1885. The particulars of the plaintiff's demand,
as set forth inthe writ, are to the purport and effect contained
in the agreed facts hereinafter set forth. The defendant appeared in the suit, and filed an answer denying all the allegations in the writ and declaration. A jury trial was waived by
a written agreement, and the parties filed the following statement of agreed facts:
"Isaac H. Taylor, of Boston, in said *county, mentioned in
the declaration, filed his voluntary petition in insolvency, in
said county, June 20, 1883,'on which he was duly adjudged
an insolvent debtor, and his assignee was appointed on the
20th day of July in the same year, and his deed of assignment
was thereupon issued to him on the same day, a copy of which
is annexed and made a part hereof and is marked 'A,' and the
plaintiff accepted the same, proceeded to the discharge of his
duties, and published due notice of his appointment in the
Boston Post in September, 1883, a newspaper published at
Boston, Mass.

"The second and third meetings of the creditors were duly
held and due notice thereof-published in newspapers at said
Boston, at which claims were proved, but no discharge was
granted to the insolvent. The schedule of assets of said Taylor did not disclose the claim hereinafter mentioned. Prior
to said insolvency said Isaac I. Taylor, on or about the 14th
day of June, 1863, in or near latitude 23 degrees south, longitude 43 degrees west, was a passenger on board the bark

BUTLER v. GORELEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Good Hope, which was captured and burned -by a tender of
the Confederate -cruiser Alabama named the Georgia; and
said Isaac H. Taylor, being a passenger lawfully on board
said bark Good Hope, an American vessel, by reason of said
capture and burning of said bark, became the loser of his
personal effects, expenses and other losses, amounting in all,
as he claimed, to five thousand three hundred and fifty dollars,
with interest thereon.
"Whereupon, after Congress had passed an act known as
an act in regard to Alabama Claims, by which citizens of the
United States proving their losses should be indemnified out
of the Treasury of the United States, from the proceeds of
the money paid to the United States by Great Britain under
the Geneva award appointed under the treaty of Washington,
which was then in the Treasury of the United States, said
Taylor filed his claim on the 13th day of January, 1883,
which claim was duly prosecuted and heard, and was adjudicated in favor of Isaac H. Taylor by the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, in the sum of three thousand
seven hundred and eighty-five dollars and twenty-five cents,
actual loss and damage sustained by him, with interest thereon
at the rate of four per, cent per annum from June 14, 1863, to
]March 31, 1877, which interest amounted to the sum of two
thousand and eighty-eight dollars and ninety cents, making
a total sum adjudicated to him of five tousand eight hundred
and seventy-four dollars and fifteen cents. No other assets of
value came to the hands of the plaintiff as assignee aforesaid.
"That on the 20th of February, 1885, a draft issued from
the Treasury, a copy whereof, with the endorsements thereon,
is hereto annexed and made a part hereof and is marked 'B,'
payable to the order of Isaac H. Taylor, for said sum, and ws
thereupon duly mailed to the care of Benjamin F. Butler, the
defendant, E. J. Hadley and E. L. Barney, attorneys of redord,
at 16 Pemberton Square, Boston, which was received by them
in due course of mail.
"On February 24, 1885, Isaac H. Taylor died at said Boston
intestate. On March 31, 1885, Sallie B. Taylor, of Duxbury,
Massachusetts, the widow of said Isaac H. Taylor, upon her
VOL. cxLvi-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

petition filed March 7, 1885, and on giving bond with sureties, was duly appoinied by the Probate Court of the District of Columbia administratrix of the personal estate of said
Isaac I. Taylor. There has been no appraisal, nor has she
as administratrix filed any inventory nor done any act, so far
as the records show, since the letters of administration issued
to her.
"That on April 4, 1885, said Sallie B. Taylor executed a
power of -attorney,.a copy of which is annexed and made a
part hereof, and is marked ' C,' to said Butler, the defendant,
to endorse said draft and receive payment thereon from the
Treasury of the United States, and thereupon said Butler
received said sum of five thousand eight hundred and seventyfour dollars and fifteen cents; that said Butler thereafterwards
paid, before the commencement of fhis suit, the attorney's
fees upon said draft, amounting to $1087, and on the 26th day
of July, 1886, he paid the sum of one hundred and twenty-six
dollars for undertaker's services, but without the knowledge
of the plaintiff.
,"It is further agreed, that the acts passed June 23, 1874.
and June .5, 1882, made provision for the payment of losses
suffered through certain cruisers called the inculpated cruisers,
among which were the Alabama and her tenders, of which
said Georgia was one.
"That kvhen said Sallie B. Taylor, the widow, applied to
said Butler to have said money paid to her, he advised her
that that could not be done unless she took out administration
in the District of Columbia, and she accompanied him to
:Washington, and there applied to the court for such letters
of administration, and said Butler, the djfendant, signed her
bond as such administratri._, sh6 having no property in the
District of Columbia, and made an agreement with her to
retain the draft and the moneys received thereon as security
for his becoming surety'on said bond. Owing to the claim
made in this suit said administration has not yet been settled
and concluded in said District, but awaits the determination
thereof.
"That demand was made upon the defendant for said draft

BUTLER v. GORELEY
Opinion of the Court.

by the plaintiff in person, at Boston, before the filing of said
petition for administration by said Sallie B. Taylor, and defendant was at the same time notified by the plaintiff that he
was assignee, as aforesaid, of the estate of said Taylor, and
that as such assignee he was entitled to the amount of said
draft and the proceeds thereon. The treaty of Washington,
the award of the arbitrators thereunder, and the acts of Congress of June 23, 1874, and June 5, 1882, the laws of Maryland as continued in force by the laws of the District of
Columbia, and the laws of the District of Columbia may be
referred to and are made a part hereof.
"If the court find that the plaintiff is entitled to recover,
judgment shall be entered for the plaintiff for the sum of fortysix hundred and sixty-one and - dollars, and interest thereon
from June 1st, 1887; otherwise, plaintiff to become nonsuit."
The deed of assignment annexed to the agreed facts, and
marked "A," set forth that Charles P. Goreley had been duly
appointed assignee in the case of Isaac H. Taylor, insolvent
debtor, by the court of insolvency of Suffolk County, and that
the judge of that court, by virtue of the authority vested in him
by the laws of Massachusetts, thereby conveyed and assigned
to said assignee all the estate, real and personal, of Taylor,
including all the property of which-he was possessed, or which
he was interested in or entitled to, on June 20, 1883, excepting
property exempt from attachment, in trust for the uses and
purposes, with the powers and subject to the conditions and
limitations, set forth in said laws. The deed was executed by
the judge of the court of insolvency on July 20, 1883.
The draft referred to in the agreed facts, and marked "B,"
was dated February 20, 1885, and was drawn by the Treasurer
of the United States on thae Assistant Treasurer at Boston,
Massachusetts, payable to the order of Isaac I. Taylor, for
$5874.15, and was endorsed on the back as follows: "Sallie
B. Taylor, adm'x of Isaac H Taylor, by her attorney-in-fact,
Benj. F. Butler. Payable to Benj. F. Butler, attorney.
Authority on file. J. R. Garrison, Dep'ty First Comptroller."
It was paid by the Treasurer of the United Stat s on April 6,
1885, and was accompanied by a power of attorney, marked

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"C," dated April 4, 1885, executed by Sallie B. Taylor, appointing Benjamin F. Butler her attorney to endorse her name
on said draft, and to receive and receipt for the money. This
power of attorney was duly acknowledged before a notary
public of the county of Suffolk, -Massachusetts, on April 4,
1885.
On November 15, 1887, the case was heard on the agreed
facts, by the Superior Court, which on that day entered a
judgment for the plaintiff in the sum of 84789.33. The defendant appealed to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, which, on May 4, 1888, transmitted a rescript to the
Superior Court, directing its clerk to enter a judgment for the
plaintiff for $4661.15 and interest thereon from June 1, 1887.
The Superior Court, on June 4, 1S88, entered a judgment in
favor of the plaintiff, against the defendant, for $4943.14
damages, and $34.41 costs. The defendant has brought the
case to this court by a writ of error.
The opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
is reported in 147 Mass. 8. That court held that, under the
insolvent law of the State, (Public Statutes, c. 157, § 46,) which
provided that "the assignment shall vest in the assignee all
the property of the debtor, real and personal," the claim in
question was "property; " that under the act of Congress of
June 5, 1882, c. 195, 22 Stat. 98, proceedings under which had
been begun by Taylor, on January 13, 1883, before his petition
in insolvency was filed on June 20, 1883, the claim was property which passed by the assignment; that there was no force
in the objection that the claim could not be assigned in insolvency before it was allowed by the Court of Commissioners of
Alabama Claims; and that the claim was clearly within the
general intent of the Public Statutes, c. 157, §§ 44 to 46, and'
the specific words, "rights of action for goods or estate, real
or personal."
The court refused to consider the question of the constitutionality of the state insolvent law, holding that the question
was settled affirmatively by the decision in Ogden v. Saunders,
12 Wheat. 213, and the cases which had followed it. The
c( urt, further held that the action could be maintained against

BUTLER v. GORELEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant; that the plaintiff had no notice of the proceeding instituted by Taylor in the Court of Commissioners of
Alabama Claims until Taylor had got his judgment and a.
draft for the amount was in the defendant's hands; that then
the plaintiff demanded the draft, and was entitled to receive
it; that the fact that the defendant subsequently advised the
widow of Taylor to take out administration at Washington,
that she did so, ahd that he signed her bond, with an agreement that he should retain the dv'aft as security, could not
better his case; that the effect of the judgment of the Court
of Commissioners of Alabama Claims wa's to appropriate a
fund to the claim, and to transfer the claim to that fund, leaving the question of title open to subsequent litigation in. the
ordinary courts; and that the statute did not leave the United
States subject to be.charged a second time, notwithstanding
a payment by the United States to the wrong person, any
more than, on the other hand, it made the decision of the
Commissioners' Court conclusive as to the person entitled to
the bounty of the United States.
The assignments of error made in this court by the defendant are as follows: "1. That the state court, against the contention of the defendant, held and declared ,that the laws of
insolvency of the State could and did affect, assign and transfer the claim of Isaac H. Taylor against the United States,
being in the form of an .adjudication of the Court of Alabama
Claims, as against his widow, his administratrix in the Districtof Columbia. 2. That the state court decided against the
contention of the defendant, that the insolvent law of Massachusetts transferred the property of said Isaac H. Taylor, to
wit, a claim against the United States, evidenced by an award
of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims. 3. That
the state court decided against the contention of the defendant, that the insolvent laws of Massachusetts, as enforced, took
effect upon the person and property of said Isaac H. Taylor, as
a system of bankruptcy, in contravention of the Constitution
and laws of the United States."
We regard this case as controlled by the decision of this
court in Williams v. hleard, 140 U. S. 529. In that case, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

was held that the decisions and awards of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, under the statutes of the
United States, were conclusive as to the amount to be paid on
each claim adjudged to be valid, but not as to the party entitled to receive it; and that a claim decided by that court to
be a valid claim against the United States was property which
passed to the assignee of a bankrupt, under an assignment
made prior to the decision of the Commissioners' Court.
Both parties to the present suit were citizens of Massachusetts, ana Taylor, at the time of his insolvency and to the time
of his death, resided at Boston. His wife, who became his
widow, resided at Duxbury, in Massachusetts. The proceeds
of Taylor's claim were in Massachusetts, in the shape of the
draft of the Treasurer of the United States, dated February
20, 1885. It was mailed that day to the defendant at Boston,
and received there in due course of mail, previous to the death
of Taylor, and was payable to Taylor's order by the Assistant
Treasurer of the United States at Boston; and, aft& the death
of Taylor, the proceeds of the draft were in the hands of the
defendant at Boston. Taylor's claim and its proceeds became
assets within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, and the right
to them had there vested in the plaintiff, before the death of
Taylor. No person had a right to take the draft or its proceeds out of the jurisdiction of that State, on the facts of this
case. Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107.
The plaintiff having demanded the draft from the defendant
at Boston, before Mrs. Taylor applied for letters of administration id the District of Columbia, and then notified him that
'the plaintiff was assignee in insolvency of Taylor, and entitled
to tihe proceeds of the draft, Mrs. Taylor had no right to them
as against the plaintiff; and the defendant became liable to
the plaintiff for them. The defendant had no right to withdraw the draft from administration in Massachusetts, and
transfer its proceeds to the District of Columbia for ancillary
administration. On the death of Taylor, the attorneyship of
the defendant for him became extinct. The title of the plaintiff, as assignee in insolvency, accrued before the recovery of
judgment by Taylor against the United States in the Court of

BUTLER v. GORELEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Commissioners of Alabama Claims, and before the death of
Taylor.
The defendant raises the point that if there was any claim
against the United States due to Taylor at the time of the
assignment in insolvency, such assignment of it was prohibited
by § 3477 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which
provides as follows: "All transfers and assignments made of
any claim upon the United States, or of any part or share
thereof, or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional,
and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all powers
of attorney, orders or other authorities for receiving payment
of any such claim, or of any part or share thereof, shall be
absolutely null and void, unless they are freely made and
executed in the presence of at least two attesting witnesses,
after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the
amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for the payment
thereof. Such transfers, assignments and powers of attorney,
must recite the warrant for payment, and must be acknowledged by the person making them, before an officer havihg
authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall be certified by the officer; and it must appear by the certificate that
the officer, at the time of the acknowledgment, read and fully
explained the transfer, assignment or warrant of attorney to
the person acknowledging the same."
As to this point, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts said, that § 3477 did not apply to assignments in bankruptcy, although upon a voluntary petition, Erwin v. fnited
States, 97 U. S.392, and, by parity of reasoning, did not appLv
to assignments in insolvency Sections 44, 46 and 51
chapter 157 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts read as
follows: "Sect. 44. The judge shall, by an instrument under
his band, assign and convey to the assignee all the estate real
and personal of the debtor, except such as is by law exempt
from attachment, and all his deeds, books and papers relating
thereto." "Sect. 46. The assignment shall vest in the assignee
all the property of the debtor, -real and personal, which he
could have lawfully sold, assigned or conveyed,

.

.

.

all

debts due to the debtor or any person fbr his use, and all liens

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and securities therefor, and all his rights of action for goods
or estate, real or personal, and all his rights of redeeming
such goods or estate." "Sect. 51. He" [the assignee] "shall
have the like remedy to recover all the estate, debts and
effects in his own name, as the debtor might have had if no
assignment had been made." The Supreme Judicial Court
said, in the present case, that, if it should be suggested that,
although the claim was property of the insolvent, it was not
property which he could have lawfully assigned in person, and
therefore was not within the words of the statute of the State,
the answer-was that it was clearly within the general intent
of §§ 44 and 46, and within the specific words, "rights of action
for goods or estate, real or personal." Taylor's 'ight vested
before it was assigned to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff took it
in the lifetime of Taylor.
In United States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407, 416, this court,
speaking of § 1 of the act of February 26, 1853, c. 81, (10 Stat.
170), now embodied in § 34:77 of the Revised Statutes, said, that
there might be assignable claims against the United States,
which could be sued on in the Court of Claims, in the name of
the assignee; and that "there are devolutions of title by force
of law, without any act of parties, or involuntary assignments
compelled by law, which may have been in view."
In Er.win v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, 397, this court
said, speaking of the act of 1853, that it applied only to cases
of voluntary assignment of demands against the government,
and also: "It does not embrace cases where there has been a
transfer of title by operation of law. The passing of claims to
heirs, devisees or assignees in bankruptcy are not within the
evil at which the statute aimed; nor does the construction
given by this court deny to such parties a standing in the
Court of Claims."
In Goodman v. JXiblack, 102 U. S. 556, the act of 1853 was
under consideration. A person had made an assignment, in
1860, for the benefit of his creditors, which included all his
rights, effects, credits and property of every description; and
this court held that the assignment, although it covered whatever might be due to him under a contract which he had with

BUTLER v. GORELEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States for the transportation of Ithe mails in steam
vessels, was not within the prohibition of the act of 1853, nor
in violation of public policy. It said (p. 560): "In what respect does the voluntary assignment for the benefit of his creditors, which is made by an insolvent debtor, of all his effects,
which must, if it be honest, include a claim against the government, differ from the assignment which is made ifi bankruptcy ? . . . We cannot believe that such a meritorious
act as this comes within the evil which Congress sought to
suppress by the act of 1853." See, also, Wyman v. Halstead,
109 U. S. 654; Taylor v. Bemiss, 110 U. S. 42; Williams v.
Heard,140 U. S. 529, 540.
In Bailey v. United States, 109 U. S. 432, 438, the cases of
Erwin*v. United States and Goodmn v. 2Tiblack, were cited
as showing that there might be assignrents or transfers of
claims against the government, such as, for instance, those
passed upon in those two cases, which were not forbidden by
the act of 1853.
In St. Paul & Duluth Railroadv. United States, 112 U. S.
733, 736, this court cited Erwin v. United States, as holding
that the assignment by operation of law to an assignee in
tankruptcy was not within the prohibition of § 3477 of the
Revised Statutes; and also Goodman v. Niblack, as holding
that a voluntary assignment by an insolvent debtor, for the
benefit of creditors, was valid to pass title to a claim against
the United States; but it held that the case then before it was
within the prohibition of the statute, because it involved a
voluntary transfer by way of mortgage to secure a debt, finally
completed and made absolute by a judicial sale.
.As to the point, made by the defendant, that the insolvency
law of :Massachusetts was unconstitutional, we think there is
no force in it, in view of the decisions of this court on the
subject. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; Ogden v.
Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213; Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Pet. 348;
Cook v. 3foffat, 5 How. 295; Bank of Tennessee v. Horn, 17
How. 157; Baldwin v. Hale, 1-Wall. 223 ; -Baldwin v. Bank
of Newbury, 1 Wall. 234; Gilman v. Lockwood, 4 Wall. 409;
Crapo v. KYelly, 16 Wall. 610; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

107; Geilinger v. Pilippi,133 U. S. 246; Brown v. Smart,
145 U. S. 454.
Nor is there any force in the .position taken by the defendant, that it was necessary, after the repeal in 1878 of the
bankruptcy act of 1867 and of the provisions of the Revised
Statutes of the United States in regard to bankruptcy, that
the insolvency statute of Massachusetts should have been reenacted in order to become operative. _T4 re Jiakrer, 140
U. S. 545. The repeal of the bankruptcy act of the United
States removed an obstacle to the operation of the insolvency
laws of the State, and did not render necessary their re&fnactmert.
Judgment affirmed.

IALLINGER v. DAVIS.
APPEAL FROM TEE cicuIt coUT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
TEE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 1100. Submitted November 7,1892. -Decided November 28, 1892.
A state statute, conferring upon one charged with crime the right to waive
a trial by jury and to elect to be tried by the court, and conferring
power upon the court to try the accused in such case, is not in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States.
When a prisoner, charged with the crime of murder committed in a State,
pleads guilty, the proper court of the State may, if its laws permit, proceed to inquire on evidence, without the intervention of a jury, in what
degree of murder the accused is guilty, and may find him to be guilty of
murder in the first degree, and may thereupon sentence him to death,
without thereby violc ting the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of Jhe United States that no State shAll " deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process f law."

Tins was a petition to the Circuit Court for a - rit of habeas
corpus. The facts were stated by this court as follows:
On the 30th day of 'May, A.D. 1892, the appellant, Edward
W. Hallinger, presented a petition to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey, wherein, and in
a copy of the record of the proceedings in the Court of Oyer

