OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

CLYDE MATTOX v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 1003. Submitted October 31, 192.- Decided November 14, 1892.

When the trial court excludes affidavits offered in support of a motion for
a new trial, and due exception is taken, and that court, in passing upon
the motion exercises no discretion in respect of the matters stated in
the affidavits, the question of the admissibility of the affidavits is preserved for' the consideration of this court on a writ of error, notwithstanding the general rule that the allowance or refusal of a new trial
rests in the sound discretion of the court to which the application is
addressed.
In determining what may or may not be established by the testimony of
jurors to set aside a verdict, public policy forbids that a matter resting
in the personal consciousness of one juror should be received to overthrow it; but evidence of an overt act, open to the knowledge of all the
jury. may be so received..
Perry v. Bailey, 12 Kansas, 539, approved and followed.
On a motion for a new trial on the ground of bias on the part of one of the
jurors, the evidence of jurors as to the motives and influences which
affected their deliberations is inadmissible either to impeach or support
the verdict; but a juryman may testify to any facts bearing upon the
question of the existence of any extraneous influence, although not as
to how far that influence operated on his mind; and he may also testify
in denial or explanation of acts or declarations outside of the jury room,
where evidence of such acts has been given as ground for a new trial.
Woodward v. Leavitt, 107 Mass. 453, approved and followed.
The jury in this case, (an indictment for murder,) retired October 7, to
consider their verdict. On the morning of October 8, they had npt
agreed on their verdict. A newspaper article was then read to thein,
the tendency of( which was injurious to the accused. They returned a
verdict of guilty. Affidavits of jurors of this fact were offered in support
of a motion for a new trialand -were rejected. Held, that this was
reversible error.
Dying declarations are admissible on a trial for murder as to the fact of
the homicide and the person by whom it was committed, in favor of the
defendant.
In this case, a few hours after the commission of the act, and while the
wounded man was perfectly conscious, the attending physician informed
him that the chances were all against him, and that there was no show for
him. He was then asked who did the shooting. He replied that he did

CLYDE MATTOX v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
not know. The evidence of this was received without objection. Defendant's counsel then asked whether in addition to saying that he-did
not know who shot him, he did not say .further that he knew the accused
and knew that it was not he. This was objected to gn the ground of
incompetency, and the objection sustained. Held, that this was error.

Tnis was an indictment charging Clyde Mattox with the
murder of one John Mullen, about December 12, 1889, in that
part of the Indian Territory made part of the United States
judicial district of Kansas by section two of the act of Congress of January 6, 1883, (22 Stat. '00, c. 13,) entitled "An
act to provide for holding a term of the District Court of the
United States at Wichita, Kansas, and for other purposes."
Defendant pleaded not guilty, was put upon his trial, October 5, 1891, and on the eighth of that month was found
guilty as charged, the jury having retired on the seventh to
consider of their verdict. Motions for a new trial and in
arrest of judgment were severally made and overruled, and
Mattox sentenced to death. This writ of error was thereupon
sued out.
The evidence tended to show that Mullen was shot in the
evening between eight and nine o'clock, and that he died
about one or two o'clock in the afternoon of the next day;
that three shots were fired and three wounds inflicted; that
neither of the wounds was necessarily- fatal, but that the deceased died of pneumonia produced by'one of them described
as "in the upper lobe of the right lung, entbring about two or
three inches above the right nipple, passing through the upper
lobe of the right lung, fracturing one end of. the fourth rib,
passing through and lodging beneath the skin on the right
side beneath the shoulder blade." The attending physician,
who was called a little after nine o'clock and remained with
the wounded man until about one o'clock in the morning, and
visited him again between eight nd nine o'clock, testified
that Mrs. Hatch, the mother of Clyde Mattqkx, was present at
that visit; that he regarded Mullen's recovery as hopeless; that
Mullen, being "perfectly conscious" and "in a normal condition as regards his mind," asked his opinion, and the doctor
said to him: "The chances are all against you; I do not think

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

there is any show for you at all." The physician further testifled, without-objection, that, after he had informed Mullen as
to his physical condition, he asked him as to who shot him,
and he replied, "he didn't have any knowledge of who shot
him. I interrogated him about three times in regard to that
-who
did the shooting- and he didn't know." Counsel for
.defendant, after a colloquy with the court, propounded the
following question: "Did or did not John Iullen, in your
presence-and at that time say in reply to a question of Mrs.
Hatch, ' I know your son, Clyde Mattox, and he did not shoot
me; I saw the parties who shot me and Clyde was not one of
This question was objected to as incompetent, the
them.'"
Counsel also
objection sustained, and defendant excepted.
propounded to Mrs. Hatch this question: "Did or did not
John Mullen say to you on the morning you visited him, and
after Dr. Graham had'told him that all the chances for life
were bgainst him, 'I know Clyde Mattox, your son, and he
was nbt one of the parties who shot me?"' This was objected
to -on the ground of incompetency, th6 objection sustained,
and defendant excepted.
In support of his motion for new trial the defendant offered
the affidavits of two of the jurors that the bailiff who had
3harge of the jury in the case after the cause had been heard
and submitted, "and while they were deliberating of their
verdict," "in the presence and hearing of the jurors or a part
of them, speaking of the case, said: 'After you fellows get
thrQugh with thts case it will be tried again down there.
Thompson has poison in a bottle that them fellows tried to
give him.' And at another time, in the presence and hearing
of said jury or a part of them, referring to the defendant,
Clyde Mattox said: 'This is the third fellow he has killed.'"
The affidavit of another juror to the same effect in respect of
the remark of the bailiff as to Thompson was also offered, and
in addition, the affidavits-of eight of the jurors, including the
three just mentioned, "that after said cause had been submitted to the jury, and while the jury were delibera.ting of their
verdict, and before they had agreed upon a verdict in the
case, a certain newspaper printed and published in the city of

CLYDE MATTOX v. UNITED STATES.
Stateinent of the Case.

Wichita, Kansas, known as The Wichita Daily Eagle, of the
date of Thursday morning, October 8, 1891, was introduced
into the jury room; that said paper contained a comment
upon the case under consideration by said jury, and that said
comment upon said case so under consideration by said jury,
was read to the jury in their presence and hearing ; that the
comment so read to said jury is found upon the fifth page of
said paper, and in the third column of said page, and is as
follows:
"' The .1hattox case and is still out.

The jury retired at noon yesterday

" ' The destiny of Clyde Mattox is now in the hands of the
twelve citizens of Kansas composing the jury in this case. If
he is not found guilty of murder he will be a lucky man, for
the evidence against him was very strong, or at least appeared
to be to an outsider. The case was given to the jury at noon
yesterday, and it was expected that their deliberations would
not last an hour before they would return a verdict. The
hour passed and nine more of them with it, and still a verdict
was not reached by 10.30 last night, when the jury adjourned
and went to their rooms at the Carey. Col. Johnson, of Oklahoma City, defended him, and made an excellent speech in his
behalf to the jury. Mr. Ady also made a fine speech and one
that was full of argument"and replete with the details of the
crime committed as gathered from the statements of witnesses.
The lawyers who were present and the court officers also
agree that it was one of the best and most logical speeches
Mr. Ady ever made in this court. It was so strong that the
friends of Mattox gave up all hope of any result but conviction. Judge Riner's instructions to the jury were very clear
and impartial, and required nearly half an hour for him to
read them. When the jury filed out, Mattox seemed to be
the most unconcerned man in the room. His mother was
very pale and her face indicated that she had but very little
hope. She js certainly deserving of a good deal of credit for
she has 'stuck by her son, as only a mdther can, through all
his'trials !Lad difficulties, and .this is not the first one by any

OCTOBER TERMAf, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

means, for Clyde has been tried for his life once before. lie
is a youthful-looking man of light build, a beardless face and
a nervous disposition. The crime for which he has just been
tried is the killing of a colored man in Oklahoma city over
two years ago. Nobody saw him do the killing and the evidence against him is purely circumstantial, but very strong, it
is claimed, by those who heard all the testimony.'"
The bill of exceptions states that these affidavits and a copy
of the newspaper referred to "were offered in open court by
the defendant in support of his motion for a new trial and by
the said District Court excluded; to which ruling the defendant, by his counsel then and there excepts and still excepts."
And the defendant excepted to the overruling of his motions
for new trial and in arrest of judgment.
.M'.J.
in error.

F Johnsoo, and .Mr. T'. F. .Mc.3echan for plaintiff

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General 3aiurj for defendant idi
error.
I. The first assignment of error relates to the rejection of
the prisoner's offer to prove a statement or declaration of the
dceased, John Mullen, made shortly before his death.
For that purpose the defence called Dr. Samuel Graham,
the physician who attended Mullen after the shooting. The
witness said that he told the deceased "The chances are all
against you; I don't think there is any show for you at all."
This was between 8 and 9 o'clock in the morning, lnd
about 1 or 2 o'clock that day Mullen died. The witness then
said that, after making the above statement, he interrogated
Mullen about three times As to who shot him, and that he
replied, "he didn't have any knowledge of who shot him."
The question that elicited this testimony was not objected
to by the counsel for the government.
The counsel for the defence then asked the witness whether
the deceased, after he had been told by the witness what his
condition was, as above, made any statement to Mrs. Hatch

CLYDE MATTOX v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for. Defendant in Error.

"as to who it was shot him, or as to what knowledge he had
as to who shot him." To this question the counsel for the
prosecution objected, stating, "It has not been proven that
the party knew that death was impending." The question,
as thus propounded, was objected to by the prosecution, andthe objection was sustained by the court, and thereupon the
defence excepted.
The offer to prove the alleged statement of the deceased to
Mrs. Hatch, the mother of the accused, came from the defence,
and it was incumbent on the party thus offering the evidence
to show, satisfactorily, that it was admissible as a dying declaration and was not on the footing of mere hearsay. But Dr.
Graham, the witness, was not asked whether the deceased had
said or done anything that indicated thdt he regarded death
as im-pending before or at the time the alleged declaration
was made. Why some such question was not put, particularly after the remark of the court that counsel knew he had
not laid a proper foundation for the evidence, and that the
question was not what the doctor thought, but "what the
man thought about it," is not readily perceived.
It is true that what the deceased said to the doctor about
the shooting went in without objection, and without even the
usual inquiries from the court as to the circumstances under
which the statements were made, but that was no reason why
some other and different conversatioi between the deceased
and another person, Mrs. Hatch, should have been admitted
over the prosecution's objection.
The point we make is not that the deceased made no remark with reference to Dr. Graham's statement of his condition, but that he made no manifestation of any sort showing
that he regarded himself as in extremis. The mere facG that
the physician told the deceased that "the chances are all
against you; I don't think there is any show for you at all,"
shows, as the court remarked, that the "doctor didn't have
much hope," but does not show that the deceased was without
hope. It is never safe to conclude in such cases that the
declarant believed death impending because his physician told
him so. See Rex v. Reany, 7 Cox, C. C. 209; -oodcock's
VOL. CXLVI-1O

OCTOBER TERIMI,

1892.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Case, 1 Leach, 500; Van Butkell's Case, 3 C. & P. 631;
Mil1 v. Commonwealth, 2 Gratt. 594; Donnelly v. State, 2
Dutcher, (26 N. J. LaNw,) 463, 498, 499, a case in which the late
Mr. Justice Bradley bore a.prominent part; Regina v. Bedingfeld, 14 Cox, C. C. 341; Rex v. ipilsbury,70. & P. 187; R x
v. flayward, 6 0. & P. 157; Rex v. _Aead, 2 B. & C. 605,
608; R7egina v. Hind, 8 Cox, C. 0. 300; Loore v. Alabama,
12 Alabama, 764; S. C.46 Am. Dec. 276; 3loeck v. Peqle,
100 Illinois, 242.
It would seem that these cases proceeded on a safe principle.
-To allow such evidence to be received would be a temptation
to the unscrupulous to wring from the dying victim some
statement favorable to his assailant. It would be a dangerous
obstruction to the enforcement of criminal justice if those
on trial for murder could shelter themselves behind such
evidence.
But the question propounded to Mrs. Hatch was objectionable, also, because of its leading character, and properly ruled
out on that ground alone.
II. The remaining assignments of error, except the eighth,
may be grouped' together and disposed of under one principle.
It will be Observed that they are all founded on so much
of the bill of exceptions as relates to the denial of the defendant's motion for a new trial and the several grounds thereof.
But nothing is better settled than that the exercise of the trial
judge's discretion in allowing or denying a motion for a new
trial is not reviewable by this court by writ of error. This
court says in 11Tewcomb v. Wfood, 97 U. S. 581, 583, 584: "It
has long been the established law in the courts of the United
States that to grant or refuse a new trial rests in the sound
discretion of the court to which the motion is addressed, and
that the result cannot be made the subject of review upon a writ
of error." See also Insurance Oo. v. Barton, 13 Wall. 603.
A motion for a new trial, whatever be its technical merits,
should never be allowed against the real justice of the case.
It is because the determination of such a motion involves the
exercise of a wide e quitable discretion, and requires such an
appreciation of the case as the judge before whom it was tried

CLYDE MATTOX v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

can generally, alone possess, that the granting or denying of
such a motion will not be reviewed by writ of error. A
court of error could not, in many instances, be *made to see
the case as the trial judge saw it, and therefore could not, in
such cases certainly, safely review his action. It follows,
therefore, that the alleged misconduct of the bailiff and jury
cannot be considered by this court.
It being clear that the judge below was not guilty of an
abuse of discretion in denying the'motion for a new trial, it is
quite unnecessary to inquire whether the affidavits of the
jurors rejected by the court were admissible. Should, however, that question be to be determined, the court will be glad
to have a reference to the valuable opinion of the Supreme
Court of Kansas, in the case of Perry v. Bailey, 12 Kansas,
539, delivered by Mr. Justice Brewer, then a judge of that,
court.
M .CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The allowance or refusal of a new trial rests in the sound
discretion of the court to which the application is addressed,
and the result cannot be made the subject of review by writ
of error, lenderson v. Moore, 5 Cranch, 11 ; Newcomb v.
Wood, 97 U. S.581; but in the case at bar the District Court
excluded the affidavits, and, in passing upon the motion, did
not exercise any discretion in respect of the matters stated
therein. Due exception was taken and the question of admissibility thereby preserved.
It will be perceived that the jurors did not state what
influence, if any, the communication of the bailiff and the
reading of the newspaper had upon them, but confined their
statements to what was said by the one and read from the
other.
In United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361, 366, affidavits of
two jurors were offered in evidence to establish the reading of
a newspaper report of the evidence which had been given in
the case under trial, but both deposed that it had no influence

OCTOBER, TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

on their verdict. Mr. Chief Justice Taney, delivering the
opinion of the 'court, said: "The first branch of the second
point presents the question whether the affidavits of jurors
impeaching their verdict ought to be received. It would,
perhaps, hardly be safe to lay down any general rule upon this
subject. Unquestionably sucl evidence Qught always to be
received with great ctutio
But cases might arise ii which
it would be imp'ossible to refuse them without violating the
plainest principles of justice. It is, however, unnecessary to
lay down any rule ifithis case, or examine the decisions referred to in the argument. Because we are of opinion that
the facts proved by the jurors, if proved by unquestioned
testimony, would be no ground for a new trial. There was
nothing in the newspapers calculated to influence their decision,
and both of them swyear that these papers bad not the slightest
influence on their vidict." The opinion thus indicates that
public policy which forbids the reception of the affidavits,
depositions or sworn statements of jurors to impeach their
verdicts, may in the interest of justice create an exception to
its own rule, while, at the same time, the necessity of great
caution in the use of such evidence is enforced.
There is, however, a recognized distinction between what
may and what may not be established by the testimony of
jurors to set aside a verdict.
This distinction is thus put by Mr. Justice Brewer, speaking for the Supreme Court of Kansas in Perry v. Bailey, 12
Kans. 539, 545: "Public policy forbids that a matter resting
in the personal consciousness of one juror should be received
to overthrow the verdict, because being personal it is not
accessible to other testimony; it gives to the'secret thought of
one the power to disturb the expressed conclusions of twelve;
its tendency is to produce bad faith on the part of a minority, to
induce an apparent acquiescence with the purpose of subsequent
dissent; to induce tampering with individual jurors subsequent
to the verdict. But as to overt acts, they are accessible to the
knowledge of all the jurors; if 6ne affirms misconduct, the
remaining eleven can deny; one cannot disturb the action of
the twelve; it is useless to tamper with one, for the eleven

CLYDE MATTOX v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

may be heard. Under this view of the law the affidavits were
properly received. They tended to prove something which
did not essentially inhere in the verdict, an overt act, open to
the knowledge of all the jury, and not alone within the personal consciousness of one."
The subject was much considered by Mr. Justice Gray, then
a member of the Suprem6 Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in
Woodward v. -eavitt, 107 Mass. 453, where numerous authorities were referred to and applied, and the conclusions announced, "that on a motion for a new trial on the ground of
bias on the part of one of the jurors, the evidence of jurors as
to the motives and influences which affected their deliberations, is inadmissible either to impeach or to support the
verdict. But a juryman may testify to any facts bearing upon
the question of the existence of aniy extraneous influence,
although not as to how far that influence operated upon his
mind. So a juryman may testify in denial or-explanation of
acts or declarations outside of thie jury room, where evidence
of such acts has been given as ground for a new trial." See,
also, Ritchie v. Holbrooke, 7 S. & R. 458; Chews v. Driver, 1
Coxe (N. J.), 166; Nelms v. Xississippi, 13 Sm. & Marsh.
500; Haswkins v. Hbew Orleans Pr'inting*Co.,29 La. Ann. 134,
140; Whitney v. Whitman, 5 Mass. 405; Hfix v. Drury, 5 Pick.
296.
We regard the rule thus laid down as conformable to right
reason and sustained by the weight ofI authority. These affidavits were within the rule, and being material their exclusion
constitutes reversible error. A brief examination will demonstrate their materiality.
It is vital in capital cases that the jury should pass upon
the case free from external causes tending to disturb the exercise of deliberate and unbiassed judgment. Nor can any
ground of suspicion that the. administration of justice has
been; interfered with be tolerated. Hence, the separation of
the jury in such a way as to expose them to tampering, may
be reason for a new trial, variously held as absolute; or
prima facie, and subject to rebuttal by the prosecution; or
contingent on proof indicating that a tampering really took

OCTOBER TERM'vf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

place. Wharton Cr. P1. and Pr. §§ 821, 823, 824, and cases
cited.
Private communications, possibly prejudicial, between jurors
and third persons, or witnesses, or the officer in charge, are
absolutely forbidden, and invalidate the verdict, at least unless
their harmlessness is made to appear.
Indeed, it was held in People v. Ifnapp, 42 Michigan, 267,
that the presence of an officer during the deliberations of the
jury is such an irregular invasion of the right of trial by jury
as to absolutely vitiate the verdict in all cases without regard
to whether any improper influences were actually exerted over
the jury or not. And in .Kansas v. Snyder, 20 Kansas, 306,
where the bailiff, who had charge of the jury, had been introduced and examined as a witness on behalf of the State, and
had testified to material facts against the accused, his presence
in the jury room during the deliberations of the jury was held
fatal to the verdict.
In Gainey.v. People, 97 Illinois, 270, the Supreme Court of
Illinois was of opinion that the presence of a bailiff, in charge
of a jury in a capital case, in the jury room during a part of
their deliberations, was a grave irregularity and a breach of
duty on the part of the officer, which would or would not vitiate the verdict, depending upon the circumstances in each particular case, and the application of the rule in J-ansasv.Snyder,
was approved; but the conclusion reached in People v. Knapp
was not fully sanctioned. The text-books refer to many cases
in which the action of the officer having a jury in charge, when
prejudice might have resulted; or unauthorized communications having a tendency to adverse influence; or the reading
of newspapers containing imperfect reports of the trial, or
objectionable matter in the form of editorial comments or
otherwise, have been held fatal to verdicts.
The jury in the case before us retired to consider of their
verdict on the 7th of October, and had not agreed on the
morning of the 8th, when the newspaper article was read to
them. It is not open to reasonable doubt that the tendency
of that article was injurious to the defendant. Statements
that the defendant had been tried for his life once before;

CLYDE MATTOX v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that the evidence against him was claimed to be very strong
by those who bad heard all the testimony; that the argument
for the prosecution was such that the defendant's friends gave
up all hope of any result but conviction; and that it was expected that the deliberations of the jury would not last an
hour before they would return a verdict, could have no other
tendency. Nor can it-be legitimately contended that the misconduct of the bailiff could have heen otherwise than prejudicial. Information that this was the third person Clyde
Mattox had killed, coming from the officer in charge, precludes any other conclusion. We should, therefore, be compelled to reverse the judgment because the affidavits were not
received and considered by the court; but another ground
exists upon which we must not only do this, but direct a new
trial to be granted.
Dying declarations are admissible on a trial for murder as
to the fact of the homicide and the person by whom it was
committed, in favor of the defendant as well as against him.
I East P. C. 353; Rex v. Scaife, 1 Mood. & iRob. 551; United
,State8 v. Taylor, 4 Cranch, C. C. 338; 3foore v. Alabana, 12
Alabama, 764; ( 'ommonwealth v. .tathews, 89 Kentucky, 2S7.
But it must be shown by the party offering them in evidence
that they were made under a sense of impending death, This
may be made to appear from what the injured person said;
or from the nature and extent of the wounds inflicted, being
obviously such that he must have felt or known that he could
not survive; as well as from his conduct at the time and the
communications, if any, made to him by his medical advisers,
if assented to or understandingly acquiesced in by him. The
length of time elapsing between the making of the declaration
and the death is one of the elements to be considered, although
as stated by Ivir. Greenleaf, "it is the impression of almostimmediate dissolution, and not the rapid succession of death,
in point of fact, that renders the testimony admissible." 1
Greenleaf Ev. 15th ed. §§ 156, 157, 158; State v. Wensell,
98 Missouri, 137; Commonwealth v. Haney, 12.7 Mass. 455 ;
.Eehoe v. Commwnwealth, 85 'Penn. St. 127; Swisher v. Commonwealth, 26 Gratt. 963; State v. Schmidt, 73 Iowa, 469. In

OCTOBER TERMA,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

-Regina v. Perkins, 9 C. & P. 395, the deceased received a
severe wound from a -gun loaded with shot, of which wound
he died at five o'clock the next morning. On the evening of
the day on which he was wounded, he was told by a surgeon
that he could not recover, made no reply, but appeared dejected. It was held by all the judges of England that a
declaration made by him at that time was receivabl; in evidence on the trial of a person for killing him, as being a
declaration in articulo mortis. There the declaration was
against the accused, and obviously no more rigorous rule
should be applied when it is in his favor. The point is to
ascertain the state of the mind at the time the declarations
were made. The admission of the testimony is justified upon
the ground of necessity, and in view of the consideration that
the certain expectation of almost immediate death will remove
all temptation to falsehood, and enforce as strict adherence to
the truth as the obligation of an oath could impose. But the
evidence must be received with the utmost caution, and if the
circumstances do not satisfactorily disclose that the awful and
solemn situation in which he is placed is realized by the dying
man because of the hope of recovery, it ought to be rejected.
In this case the lapse of time was but a few hours; the wounds
were three in number and one of them of great severity; the
patient was perfectly conscious, and asked the attending
physician his opinion, and was told that the chances were all
against him, and that the physician thought there was no
"show for you [him] at all." He was then interrogated as to
who did the shooting, and he replied that he did not know.
All this was admitted without objection. Defendant's counsel
then endeavored to elicit from the witness whether, in addition to saying that he did not know the parties who shot him,
Mullen stated that he knew Clyde Alattox, and that it was
not Clyde'who did so. The question propounded was objected
to on the sole ground of incompetency, and the objection sustained. In this, as the case stood, there was error. So long
as the evidence was in the case as to what Mullen said, defendant was entitled to refresh the memory of the witness in :
proper manner and bring out, if he could, wh;t uoi'c, -If ml%-

ROBY v. COLEHOUR.
Syllabus.

thing, he said in that connection. It was not inconsistent
with Mullen's statement that he did not know the parties, for
him also to have said that he knew Mattox was not one of
them. His ignorance of who shot him was not incompatible
with knowledge of who did not shoot hiim. We regard the
error thus committed as justifying the awarding of a new
trial.
The judgment is 'reversed, and "the cause remanded to the
-Ditc*t Court of the United States for the -District of
.Kansas,with a direction to grant a nvw trial.

ROBY v. COLEHOUR AND ANOTHER.
ROBY v. COLEHOUR.
ROBY v. COLEHOUR AND ANOTHER.
ROBY v. COLEHOTIR AND ANOTHER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME, COURT OF THE ST.ATE OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 990, 987, 988, 989.

Submitted May 2, 1892. -Decided

November 7, 1892.

In error to a state court, although it may not appear.from the opinion of
the court of original jurisdiction, or from the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the State, that either court formally passed upon any question
of a Federal nature, yet, if the necessary effect of the decree was to
determine, adversely to the plaintiff in error, rights and immunities in
proceedings in bankruptcy, claimed by him in the pleadings and proof,
the jurisdiction of this court may be Invoked on the ground that a right
or immunity, specially set up and claimed under the Constitution or
authority of the United States, has been denied by the judgment sought
to be reviewed.
A bankrupt who purchases from his assignee in bankruptcy real estate to
which he held the legal title at the time of the assignment is not thereby
discharged from an obligation to account to a third party for an interest
in the land as defined In a declaration of trust by th6 bankrupt, made
before the bankruptcy, but ta.zes title subject to that claim.
Whether such relations existed between the bankrupt and such third party

