ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

387

Syllabus..

ing, at common law, and generally where no order is prescribed by 'tatute, the defendant is required to make all his
challenges before the government is called upon for any. In
that aspect of the law, contemporaneous challenging works to
the injury of the government rather than to that of the defendant. Further, in the only case in which the precise question has been presented, State v. Hays, 23 Missouri, 287, cited
approvingly in Tu:pin v. The ,State, 55 Maryland, 462, the
decision was in favor of the validity of such manner of challenge. In view of the discretion which in the absence of
statute is confessedly vested in the trial court as to the manner
of challenges, there ws no error in this sufficient to justify a
new trial.
I am authorized to say that Mr. JcuSTIcE BRoWN also dissents.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
ILLINOIS.
CHICAGO v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Wos. 419, 608, 609. Argued October 12, 13, 14, 1892.-

Decided December 5, 1892.

The ownership of and dominion and sovereignty over lands covered by tide
waters, within the limits of the several States, belong to the respective
States within which they are found, with the consequent right to use
or dispose of any portion thereof, when that can be done without substantial impairment of the interest of the public in the waters, and
subjet always to the paramount right of Congress to control their
navigation so far as may be necessary for the regultion of commerce
with foreign nations and among the States.
The same doctrine as to the dominion and sovereignty over and ownership
of lands under the navigable waters of the Great Lakes applies, which

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

obtains at the common law as to the dominion and sovereignty over and
ownership of lands under tide waters on the borders of the sea, and the
lands are held by the same right in the one case as in the other,
and subject to the same trusts and limitations.
The roadway of the Illinois Central Railroad at Chicago as constructed,
two hundred feet in width, for the whole distance allowed for its entry
within the city, with the tracks thereon, and with all the guards against
danger in its approach and crossings, and the breakwater beyond its
tracks on the east, and the necessary works for the protection of the
shore on the west, in no respect interfere with any useful freedom in
the use of the waters of the lake for commerce, foreign, interstate or
domestic; and, as they were constructed under the authority of the law,
(Stat. of February 17, 1851, Laws Ill. 1851, 192,) by the requirement
of the city as a condition of its consent that the company might locate
Its road within its limits, (Ordinance of June 14, 1852,) they cannot be
regarded as such an encroachment upon the domain of the State as to
require the interposition of the court for their removal or for any
restraint in their use.
The Illinois Central Railroad Company never acquired by the reclamation
from the waters of the lake of the land upon which its tracks are laid,
or by the construction of the road and works connected therewith, an
absolute fee in the tract reclaimed, with a consequent right to dispose
of the same to other parties, or to use it for any other purpose than tie
one designated - the construction and operation of a railroad thereon,
with one or more tracks and works, in connection with the road or in aid
thereof.
That company acquired bythe construction of its road and other works no
right as a riparian owner to reclaim still further lands from the waters
of the lake for its use, or for the'construction of piers, docks and
wharves in the furtheiancc of its business; but the extent to which it
could reclaim the land under water was limited by the conditions of the
ordinance of June 14, 1852, which was simply for the construction of a
railroad on a tract not to exceed a specified width, and of works connected therewith.
The construction of a pier or the extension of any land into navigable
waters for a railroad or other purposes, by one not the owner of lands
on the shore, does not give the builder of such pier or extension, whether
an individual or corporation, any riparian rights.
The railroad company owns and -has the right to use in its business the
reclaimed land and the slips and piers in front of the lots on the lake
north of Randolph Street which .were acquired by it, and in front of
Michigan Avenue between the lines'of Twelfth and Sixteenth streets,
extended, unless it shall be found by the Circuit Court on further examination, that the piers as constructed extend beyond the point of navigability in the waters of the lake; about which this court is not fully
satisfied from the evidence in this case.
The railroad company. further has the right to continue to use, as an addi-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

3S9

Statement of the Case.
tional means of approaching and using its station-grounds, the spaces
and the rights granted to it by the ordinances of the city of Chicago of
September 10, 1855, and of September 15, 1856.
The act of the Legislature of Illinois of April 16, 1869, granting to the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, its successors and assigns," all the right and
title of the State of Illinois in and to the submerged lands constituting
the bed of Lake Michigan, and lying east of the tracks and breakwater
of the Illinois- Central Railroad Company, for the distance of one mile,
and between the south line of the south pier extended eastwardly and a
line extended eastward from the south line of lot twenty-one, south of
andnear to the roundhouse and machine shops of said company, in the
south division of the said city of Chicago," cannot be invoked so as to
extend riparian rights which the company possessed from its ownership
of lands in sections 10 and 15 on the lake; and as to the remaining submerged lands, it was not competent for the legislature to thus deprive
the State of its ownership of the submerged lands in the harbor of
Chicago, and of the consequent control of its waters; and the attempted
cession by the act of April 16, 1869, was inoperative to affect, modify,
or In any respect to control the sovereignty and dominion of the State
over the lands; or its ownership thereof, and any such attempted operation of the act was annulled by the repealing act of April i5, 1873, which
to that extent was valid and effective.
There can be no irrepealable contract in a conveyance of property by a
grantor in disregard of a public trust, under which he was bound to hold
and manage it.
The fee of the made or reclaimed ground between Randolph street and
Park Row, embracing the ground upon which rest the tracks and the.
breakwater of the railroad company south of Randolph street, is in the
city, and subject to the right of the railroad company to its use of
the tracks on ground reclaimed by it and the continuance of the breakwater, the city possesses the right of riparian ownership, and is at full
liberty to exercise it.
The city of Chicago, a. riparian owner of the grounds on its east or lake
front of the city, between the north line of Randolph street and the
north line of block twenty-three, each of the Iines being produced to
Lake Michigan, and in virtue of authority conferred by its charter, has
the power to construct and keep in repair on the lake front, east of said
premises, within the lines mentioned, public landing places, wharves,
docks and levees, subject, however, in the execution of that power, to
the authority of the State to prescribe the lines beyond which piers,
docks, wharves and other structures, other than those erected by the
general government, may not be extended into the navigable waters of
the harbor, and to such supervision and control as the United States may
rightfully exercise.

I w EQurry. These appeals were taken from a decree -in a
bill or information filed by the State of Illinois against the

OCTOBEr. TERf,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

Illinois Central Railroad Company, the City of Chicago, and
the United States, and a cross bill therein filed by the city
against the Railroad Company, the United States and the
State. 33 Fed. Rep. 730. The object of the litigation was
to determine the rights, respectively, of the State, of the
city, and of the Railroad Company in land, submerged or
reclaimed, in front of the water line of the city on Lake
Michigan.
As the record came to this court the cause was ,urther entitled- "Die United States .p)yellant v. Te People of the
State of Jllinois et al., No. 610." On the suggestion of the
Solicitor General that the United States had never been a
party to these suits in the court below, and had never taken
an appeal from the decree, that title was dropped from the
opinion of the court.
The facts were stated by Mr. Justice Harlan in his opinion
in the court below, as follows:'
It is necessary to a clear understanding of the numerous
questions presented for determination, that we should first
trace the history of the title to these several bodies of lands up
to the time when the Illinois Central Railroad was located.
within the limits of Chicago.
First. As to the lands embraced in, the Fort Dearborn
.?eservjation.
In the year 180- the United States established the military
I This court, in its opinion, fnf'a, 434, says of this statement: "We
agree with the court below that, to a clear understanding of the numerous
qestions presented in this case, it was necessary to trace the history of
the title to the several parcels of land claimed by the company. And the
court, in its elaborate opinion, 33 Fed. Rep. 730, for that purpose referred
to the legislation of the United States and of the State, and to ordinances
of.the city and proceedings thereunder, and stated, with great minuteness
of detail, every material provision of law and every step taken. We have
with great care gone over the history detailed and are satisfied with its
entire accuracy. It would, therefore, serve no useful purpose to repeat
what is, in our opinion, clearly and fully narrated." After this full endorsement, the Reporter has thought it his duty to make use of this statement,
making such few changes, mostly verbal, as have been found necessary to
adapt it to the issues settled by the opinion of the court in this case.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

391

Statement of the Case.

post of Fort Dearborn, immediately south of Chicago River,
and near its mouth, upon the southwest fractional quarter of
section 10. It was occupied by troops as well when Illinois,
in 1818, was admitted into the Union, as when Congress passed
the act of March 3, 1819, authorizing the sale of certain military sites. By that act it was provided:
"That the Secretary of War be, and he is hereby, authorized,
under the direction of the President of the United States, to
cause to be sold such military sites, belonging to the United
States, as may have been found, or become, useless for military
purposes. And the Secretary of War is hereby authorized, on
the payment of the consideration agreed for, into the treasury
of the United States to make, execute and deliver all needful
instruments conveying and transferring the same in fee; and
the jurisdiction, which had been specially ceded, for military
purposes, to the United States, by a State, oyer such site or
sites, shall thereafter cease. 3 Stat. 520, c. 88.
In 1824, upon the written request of the Secretary of War,
tlc southwest quarter of fractional section 10, containing about
57 acres, and within whibh Fort Dearborn was situated, was
formally reserved by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office from sale and for military purposes. Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Pet. 498, 502. The United States admit, and it is also
proved, that the lands so reserved were subdivided in 1837 by
being represented by one
authority of the Secretary -he
Matthew Birchard, as special agent and attorney for that purpose -into blocks, lots, streets- and public grounds called the
"Fort Dearborn Addition to Chicago.". And on the 7th day
of June, 1839, a map or plat of that addition was acknowledged by Birchard, as such agent and attorney, and w s recorded in the proper local office. A part of the ground
embraced in that subdivision was marked 6n .the record plat
"Public ground forever to remain vacant of buildings."
The plat of that subdivision is substantially reproduced on
page 392, as Map A.
The lots designated on this plat were sold and .onveyed by
the United States to different purchasers. The United States
expressly reserved from sale all of the Fort Dearborn Addition

P2

,Dearhormk addif on 1,o

ciIC,qo.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

393

Statement of the Case.

(including the ground marked for streets) north of the south
line of lot 8 in block 2, lots 4 and 9 in block 4, and lot 5 in
block 5, projecting said lines across the adjacent streets. The
grounds so specially reserved remained in the occupancy of the
General Government for military purposes from 1839 until
after 1845. The legal effect of that occupancy appears in
United States v. Chicago, 7 How. 185. The city of Chicago
having proposed, in 1844, to open Michigan Avenue through
the lands so reserved from sale, notwithstanding, at the time,
they were in actual use for military purposes, the United States
instituted a suit in equity to restrain the city from so doing.
It appeared in the case that the agent of the General Government-gave notice, at the time of selling the other lots, that the
ground in actual use by the.United States was not then to be
sold. It also appeared that the act of *March 4, 1837, incorporating the city of Chicago, and designating the district of
country embraced within its limits expressly excepted "the
southwest fractional quarter of section 10, occupied as a military post, until the same shall become private property." Ill.
Laws, 1831, pp. 38, 74.
The court held that the city had no right to open streets
through that part of the ground which, although laid out in
lots and streets, had not been sold by the government; that its
corporate powers were limited to the part which, by sale, had
become private property; and that the streets laid out and
dedicated to public use by Birchard, the agent of the Secretary
of War, did not, merely by his surveying the land into lots and
streets, and making and recording a map or plat thereof,
convey the legal estate in such streets to the city, and thereby
authorize it to open them for public use, and assume full municipal control thereof. The court held to be untenable the claim
of the aity that " b ecause streets had been laid down on the
plan by the agent [Birchard] part of which extended into the
land not sold, those parts had, by this alone, become dedicated
as highways and the United States hd become estopped to
object," Further: "It is entirely unsupported by principle or.
precedent, that an agent, merely by 2'otracting on the _pan
those streets into the reserved line and amidst lands not sold,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

nor meant then to be sold, but expressly reserved, could deprive the United States of its title to real estate, and to its
important public works." See also Irwin v. Dixion, 9 How.
9, 31.
Second. As to the lands iA controversy emlraced in F7rational Section 15.
This section is on the lake shore, immediately south of section 10. The particular lands, the history of the title to which
is to be now examined, are between the west line of the street
low known as Michigan Avenue and the roadway or wayground of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and between
the middle line of Madison street and the middle line of
Twelfth street, excluding what is known as Park Row or
block 23, north of Twelfth street.
By an act of the Illinois legislature of February 14, 1823,
entitled "An act to provide for the improvement of the internal navigation of this State," certain persons were constituted
commissioners to dqvise and report upon measures for connecting, by means of a canal and locks, the navigable waters
of the Illinois River and Lake Michigan. Ill. Laws, 1823, p.
151. This was followed by an act of Congress, approved
March 2, 1827, entitled "An act to grant a quantity of land
to the State of Illinois, for the purpose of aiding in opening a
canal to connect the waters of the Illinois River with those of
Lake Michigan," granting to this State, for the purposes of
such enterprise, a quantity of land, equal to one-half of five
sections in width, on each side of the proposed canal (reserving
each alternate section to the United States), to be selected by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under direction
of the President; said lands to be "subject to the disposal of
the said State for the purpose aforesaid, and for no other;"
and said canal to remain forever a public highway for the use
of the national government, free from any charge for any property of the United States passing through it. 4 Stat. 234, c. 51.
The power of the State to dispose of these lands was further
recognized or conferred by the third section of the act, as follows: SEC. 3. "That the said State, under the authority of the
legislature thereof, after the selection shall have been so made,

ILIINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

395

Statement of the. Case.

shall have power to sell and convey the whole or any part of
the said land, and to give a title in fee simple therefor to
whomsoever shall purchase the whole or any part thereof."
4 Stat. 234.
By an act of the Illinois legislature of January 22, 1829,
entitled "An act to provide for constructing the Illinois and
Michigan Canal," the commissioners for whose appointment
that act made provision were directed to select, in conjunction
with the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the alternate sections of land granted by the act of Congress, such commissioners being invested with the power, among others, "to
lay off such parts. of, said donation into town lots as they may
think proper, and to sell the same at public sale in the same
manner as is provided in this ac for the sale of other lands."Ill. Laws, 1829.
The act of 1829 was amended February 15, 1831, so as to
constitute the Canal Commissioners a board to be known as the
"Board of Canal Commissioners of the Illinois and Michigan
Canal," with authority to contract and be contracted with, sue
and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and with power of ,control in all matters relating to said canal. Ill. Laws, 1830,
1831, 39.
Pursuant to and in conformity with said acts of Congres's and
of the legislature of Illinois, the selection of lands for the purposes specified was made by the proper authorities, and approved by the President on the 21st of M ay, 1830. Among
the lands so selected was said fractional section 15.
By an act of the Illinois legislature, approved January 9,
1836, entitled "An act for the construction of the Illinois and
Michigan Canal," the Governor was empowered to negotiate a
loan of not exceeding $500,000, on the credit and faith- of the
State, as therein provided, for the purpose of aiding, in connection with such means as might be received from the United
States, in the construction of the Illinois and Michigan Canal,
for which loan should be issued certificates of stock, to be called
the "Illinois and Michigan Canal stock," signed by the Auditor
and countersigned by the Treasurer, bearing an interest not
exceeding six per cent, payable semi-annually, and "reimburs-

OCTOBER TERM. 1892.
Statement of the Case.

able" at the pleasure of. the State at any time after 1860, and
for the payment of which, principal and interest, the faith of
the State was irrevocably pledged. The same act provided
for the appointment of three commissioners to constitute a
board to be known as "The Board of Commissioners of the
Illinois and M[ichigan Canal," and to be a body politic and
corporate, with power to contract and be contracted with, sue
and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all matters and things
relating to them as canal companies, and to have the immediate care and superintendence of the canal and all matters
relating thereto. Ill. Laws, '1836, 145.
That act: contained; among other provisions, the following:
"SEC. 32. The commissioners shall examine the whole canal
route, and select such places thereon as may be eligible for
town sites, and cause the same to be laid off into town lots,
ard they shall qause the canal lands in or near Chicago, suit'able therefor, to be laid off into town lots.
"SEC. 33. And the said Board of Canal Commissioners shall,
on the twentieth day of June next, proceed to sell the lots in
the town of Chicago, and such parts of the lots in the town of
Ottawa, as also fractional section Fifteen adjoining the town of
Chicago-it being first laid off and subdivided into town lots,
streets and alleys, as in their best judgment will best promote
the interest of the said canal fund: .Provided,always, That
before any of the aforesaid town lots shall be offered f6r sale,
Ill.
public notice of such sale shall have been given." . .
pnd
Laws, 1836, 150. The revenue arising from the canal,
from any lands granted by the United States to the State for
its construction, together with the net tolls thereof, were
pledged by the act for the payment of the interest accruing
on the said stock, and for the reimbursement of the principal
of the same. .Ibid.§ 41; 153.
In 1836 the Canal Commissioners, under the authority conferred upon them by the statutes above recited, caused fractional section 15 to be subdivided into lots, blocks, streets,
etc., z map whereof was made, acknowledged and recorded on
the 20th of July, 183.6, which map is substantially reproduced
on page 397 as Map B.

MAP B.
F"RACTIONAL SfCTION A(21 TP.
38 NORTH RqNrE IMCASTOFMTE
"THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN
SURVEYCO AND
AAI.30IOtD 8Y /IE
BOARD OF CANAL COMM&WONERS,
PURSUANT TO LAWS IN TE
MONTH Of APRI AfL 183&

OCTOBER TER-M, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

At the time this map was made and recorded fractional sec.
tions 15 and 10 were both within the limits of the "Town"
of Chicago, except that by the act of February 11, 1835,
changing the corporate powers of that town, it was provided
"that the authority of the Board of Trustees of the said Town
of Chicago shall not extend over the south fractional section
10 until the same shall cease to be occupied by the United
States." Ill. Laws, 1835, p. 204. But, prior to the survey and
recording of the plat of fractional section 10, to wit, by the
act of March 4, 1837T, the city of Chicago was incorporated,
and its limits defined (excluding, as we have seen, "the southwest fractional quarter of section 10,. occupied as a military
post, until the same shall become private property,") and was
invested with all the estate, real and personal, belonging to or
held in trust by the trustees of the town; its common council
being empowered to lay out, make and assess streets, alleys,
lanes and highways in said city, to make wharves and slips at
the end of the streets, on property belonging to said city, and
to alter, widen, straighten and discontinue the same. Il1.
Laws, 1837, 61, § 38; 74, § 61.
Congress having, by an act approved September 20, 1850, 9
Stat. 466; c. 51, made a grant of land to Illinois for the purpose
of aiding the construction of a railroad from the southern terminus of the Illinois and Michigan Canal to a point at or near
the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, with branches
to Chicago and Dubuque, the Illinois Central Railroad Company was incorporated February 10, 1851, and was made the
agent of the State to construct that road. Private Laws Ill.
1851, 61. It was granted power by its charter, Sec. 3, "to
survey, locate, construct, complete, alter, maintain and operate
a railroad, with one or more tracks or lines of rails, from the
southern terminus of the Illinois and Michigan Canal, to a
poir-t at -the city of Cairo, with a branch of the same to the
city of Chicago, on Lake Michigan; and also a branch, via the
city of Galena, to a point on the Mississippi River, opposite
the town of Dubuque, in the State of Iowa." In addition to
certain powers, privileges, immunities and franchises -including the right to purchase, hold and convey real and personal

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

399

Statement of the Case.

estate, which might be needful to carry into effect the purposes
and objects of its charter -it
was provided that the company
"shall have the right of way upon, and may appropriate to its
sole use and control, for the purposes contemplated herein, land
not exceeding two hundred feet in width through its entire
length ; may enter upon and take possession of, and use all and'
singular any lands, streams and materials of every kind, for
the location of depots and stopping stages, for the purposes of
constructing bridges, dams, embankments, excavations, station
grounds, spoil banks, turnouts, engine houses, shops and other
buildings necessary for the construction, completing, .altering,
maintaining, preserving and complete operation of said road.
All such lands, waters, materials and privileges, belonging to
the State, are hereby granted to said corporation for said purposes: . . . P'ovided, That nothing in this section contained shall be so construed as to authorize the said corporation
to interrupt the navigation of said streams." But the company's charter also provided (Sec. 8): "Nothing in this act
contained shall authorize said corporation to make a location
of their track within any city without the consent of the common council of said city."
Such consent was given by an ordinance of the common
council of Chicago, adopted June 14, 1852, Whereby permission
was granted tQoth.e company to lay don, construct and maintain within the limits -of that city, and along the margin of the
lake within and adjacent to the same, a railroad with one or
more tracks, and to have the right of way and all powers
incident to and necessary therefor, upon certain terms and
conditions, to wit: "The said road shall enter at or near the
intersection of its southern boundary with Lake Michigan, and,
following the shore on or near the margin of said lake northerly
to the southern bounds of the open space known as Lake Park,
in front of canal section fifteen, and continue northerly across
the open space in front of said section fifteen to such grounds
as the said company may acquire between the north line of
Randolph Street and the Chicago fRiver, in the Fort Dearborn
addition in said city, upon which said grounds shall be located
the depot of said railroad within the city, and such other build-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ings, slips or apparatus as may be necessary and convenient
for the business of said company. But it is expressly understood that the city of Chicago does not undertake to obtain
for gaid company any right of way, or other right, privilege or
,easement, not now in the power of said city to grant or confer,
or to assume any liability or responsibility for the acts of said
company." Section 1.
By other sections of the ordinance it was provided as follows:
By the second section, that the companymight "enter upon
and use in perpetuity for its said line of road, and other works
necessary tQ protect the same from the lake, a width of 300
feet, from the southern boundary of said public ground near
Twelfth street, to the northern" line of Randolph streetthe inner or west line of the ground to be used by said company to be not less than 400 feet east from the west line
of Michigan Avenue and parallel thereto;"
By the third section, that they "may extend their works
and fill ouk into the lake to a p6int in the southern pier not
less than 400 feet west from the present east end of the same,
thence parallel with Michigan Avenue to the north line of
Randolph street extended ; but it is expressly understood that
"thecommon council does not grant any right or privilege beyond the limits above specified, nor beyond the line that may
be actually occupied by the works of said company ;"
By the sixti section, that the company "shall erect and
maintain on the western or inner line of the ground pointed
out for its mmn track on the lake shore, as the same is hereinbefore defined, such suitable walls, fences or other sufficient
works, as will prevent animals frQm straying upon or obstructing .its tracks, and secure persons and property from danger,
said structure to be of suitable materials and sightly appearance, and of such heights as the common council may direct,
and no change thereon shall be., made except by mutual consent:. Provided,That the company shall construct such suitabl6 gates at proper places at the ends of the streets, which
are now or ihay hereafter be laid out, as may be required by
the connon0 council, to afford safe access to the lake; And
proyvided, , *o, That, in case of the construetion of an outside

-ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

401

Statement of the Case.

harbor, streets may be laid out to approach the same, in the
manner provided by law, in which case thi common council
may regulate the speed of locomotives and trains across them ;"
By the seventh, section, that the company "shall erect and
complete within three years after they shall have accepted
this ordinance, and shall forever thereafter maintain, a con:
tinuous wall or structure of stone masonry, pier work or other
sufficient material, of regular and sightly appearance, and not
to exceed in height the general level of Michigan Avenue opposite thereto, from the north side of Randolph street to the
southern bound-of Lake Park before mentioned, at a distance
of not more than 300 feet east from and parallel with the
western or inner line, pointed out for said company, as specified in section two hereof, and shall continue said works to
the southern boundary of the city, at such distance outside
of the track of said road as may be expedient, which structure
and -works shall be of sufficient strength, and magnitude to
protect the entire front of said city, between the north lin
of Randolph street and its southern boundary, from further
damage or injury from -the action of the waters of Lake
Michigan, and that part of the structure south of Lake Park
shall be commenced and progecuted with all reasonable despatch after acceptance of this ordinance ;"
By the eighth section, that the company "shall not in any
manner, nor for.any purpo~e whatever, occupy, use or intrude
upon the open ground known as Lake Park, belonging to the
city of Chicago, lying between Michigan Avenue and the
western or inner line before mentioned, except so far as
the common council may consent, for the convenience of said
company, while constructing or repairing the works in front
of said ground;"
By the ninth section, that the company "shall erect
no
buildings between the north line of Randolph street and the
south line of the said Lake Park, nor occupy nor use the works
proposed to 1e constructed between these points, except for
the passage of or for making up or distributing their trains,
nor place upon any part of their works between said points
any obstruction to the view of the lake from the shore, nor
voL. cxi

-26

OCTOBEI

TEAIT, 1892.

Statement of the Case.

suffer their locomotives, cars or other articles to remain upon
their tracks, but only erect such works as are proper for the construction of their necessary tracks and protection of the same."
The company was given ninety days within which to accept
the ordinance,. and it was provided that upon such acceptance
its terms should be embodied in a contract between the city
and the company. The ordinance was accepted, and the
,required agreement entered into on the 8th day of July, 1852.
At the time this ordinance was passed the harbor of the
city included, under the laws of the State incorporating the
city, "the Piers and so much of Lake Michigan as lies within
the distance of one mile thereof into the lake, and the Chicago
River and its branches to their respective sources." Private
Laws Ill. 2d Sess. 1851, pp. 132, 147. Its common council
had power, at the public expense, to construct a breakwater
or barrier along the shore of the lake for the protection of the
city against the encroachments of the water; "to preserve
the harbor; to prevent any use of the same, or any act in
relation thereto . . . tending in any degree to fill up or
obstruct the same; to prevent and punish the casting or depositin g therein any earths, ashes or other substance, filth,
logs or floating matfer; to prevent and remove all obstructions therein, and to punish the authors thereof; to regulate
and prescribe the mode and speed of entering and leaving the
-ha;rbor, and of coming to and d6parting from the wharves
and streets of the city by steamboats, canal boats, and other
crafts and vessels, . . . and to regulate and prescribe by
such
ordinances, or -through their harbor master, or *other
"authorized
officer, such a location of every canal boat, steam-'
boat, or other craft or vessel or float, and such changes of
station in, band use of, the.harbor, as may be necessary-to promote order therein, and the safety and equal convenience, as
near as may be, of all such boats, vessels, crafts or floats ;"
"1to remove and prevent all obstructions i a the waters which
are public highways in said city, and to widen, straighten and
4eepen the. same ; " and to "make wharves and slips at the
'end of streets, and alter,'widen, c ohtract, straighten .and discontinue the, same." . Ibid.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

403

Statement of the Case.

Under the authority of its charter, -and of the ordinance of
June 14, 1852, the railroad company located its tracks within
the corporate limits of the city. The tracks northward from
Twelfth street were laid upon piling placed in the waters of
the lake, the shore liner which was crooked, being, at that
time, at Park Row, about 400 feet from the west .line of
Michigan Avenue; at the foot of Monroe and Madison streets,
about 90 feet; and at Randolph street, about 112 feet. Since
that time the'space between the shore line and the tracks of
the railroad company has been filled with earth by or under
the direction of the city, and is now solid ground. After the
construction of the track as just stated, the railroad company
erected a breakwater east of its roadway, upbn a line parallel
with the west line of If ichigan Avenue, and, subsequently,
filled the space, or nearly all of it, between that breakwater
and its tracks, and under its tracks, with earth arid stone.
It is stated by counsel, and the record, we think, sufficiently shows, that when the road was located in 1852 nearly
all of the lots bordering upon the lake, north of Randolph
street, had become the property of individuals, by purchase
from the United States, except a parcel adjacent to the river
which had not then been sold by the General Government.
Soon thereafter the company acquired the title to all of the
water lots in the Fort Dearborn addition, north of Randolph
street, including the remaining parcel belonging to the United
States. The deed for the latter was made by the Secretary of
War, October 14, 1852, and included "all the accretions made
or to be made by said lake and river in front of the land hereby
conveyed, and all other rights and privileges appertaining to
the United States as owners of said land." The company
established its passenger house at the place designated in the
ordinance of 1852, and, being the owner of said water lots,
north of Randolph street, it gradually pushed its works out
into the shallow water of the lake to the exterior line speeified
in that ordinance, 1-376 feet east of the west line of Michigan
Avenue.
In orcer that, the iaile6ad company tnight approach its
passenger depot, the comaton coun:3il, by ordinanqe, 1(tdopt.ed

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

September 10, 1855, granted it permission to curve its tracks
westwardly of the line fixed by the ordinance of 1852, "so as
to cross said line at a point not more than 200 feet south of
Randolph street, -extending and curving said tracks northwesterly as they approach the depbt, and crossing the north
line of Randolph street, extended, at a point not more than 100
feet west of the line fixed by the ordinance, in accordance
with the map or plat thereof submitted by said company and
placed on file for reference." This grant was, however, upon
the following conditions: That the company lay out upon its
own land., west of and alongside its passenger house, a street
50 feet wide, extending from Water street to Randolph street,
and fill the same up its entire length within two years from
the passage of said ordinance; that it should be restricted in
the use of.its tracks south of. the north line of Randolph street,
as provided in the ordinance of 1852j and "when the company
shall fill up its said tracks south of the north line of that
street down to the point where said curves and side-tracks
commence, and the city shall grant its permission so to fill up
its tracks, it should also fill up, at the same time and to an
equal height, all the space between the track so filled up and
the lake shore as it now exists, from the north side of Randolph street down to the point where said curves and sidetracks intersect the line fixed by the ordinance aforesaid."
The company's tracks were curved as permitted; the street
referred to was opened and has ever since been used by the
public; and the required filling was done.
It being necessary that the railroad company should have
additional means of approaching and using its station grounds
between Randolph street and the Chicago River, the city, by
another ordinance adopted September 15, 1856, granted it permission "to enter and use in erpetuity, for its line of railroad
and other works necessary to protect the same from the lake,
the space between its present [then] breakwater and a line
drawn from a point on said breakwater 700 feet south of the
north line of Randolph, extended, and runninb thence on a
straight line to the southeast corner of its present breakwater,
thence to the river: Provided, however, and this permission is

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

405

Statement of the Case.

only given upon the express condition, that the portion of said
line which lies south of the north line of Randolph street, extended, shall be kept subject to all the conditions and restrictions as to the use of the same, as are imposed upon that part
of said line by the said ordinance of June 14, 1852."
In 1867 the company made a large slip just outside of the exterior line fixed by the ordinance of 1852, thereby extending its
occupancy, between Randolph street and Chicago River, further
to tlhe east. Along the outer edge of this pier a continuous
line of dock piling was placed, extending on a line from the
river to the north line of Randolph street, 1792 feet distant
from the 'west line of Michigan Avenue. This line formed the
company's breakwater between the river and Randolph street
at the time of the passage, April 16, 1869, of what is known
as the Lake Front Act; which was passed by the legislature
over the veto of the governor, and which is printed in full
in the margin. Laws of 1869, p. 245.
In view of the important questions raised, and of the rights
asserted, under that act, it is here given in full:'
1 ,,
AN ACT in relation to a portion. of the submerged lands and Lake Park
grounds, lying on and adjacent to the shore of Lake Michigan, on the eastern frontage of the city of Chicago.
" SEcTIoN 1. Be it enacted by the People of the State of 171inois, represented
in the General Assembly, That all right, title and interest of the State of
Illinois in and to so much of fractional section fifteen (15), township thirtynine (39), range fourteen (14) east of the third (3d) principal meridian, in
the city of Chicago, county of Cook, and State of Illinois, as is situated
east of Michigan Avenue and north of Park Row, and south of the south
line of Monroe street, and west of a line running parallel with and four
hundred feet east of the west line of said Michigan Avenue- being a
strip of land four hundred feet in width, including said avenue along the
shore of Lake Michigan, and partially submerged by the waters of said
lake -are hereby granted, in fee, to the said city of Chicago, with full
power and authority to sell and convey all of said tract east of said avenue,
leaving said avenue ninety (90) feet In width, in such manner and upon such
terms as the common council of said city may, by ordinance, provide: Provided,
That no sale or conveyance of said property, or any part thereqf, shall be
valid unless the same be approved by a vote of not less than three-fourths
of all the aldermen elect.
"§ 2. The proceeds of the sale of any and all of said lands shall be set
aside, and shall constitute h fund, to be designated as the ' Park Fund' of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

As early as May, 1869, the railroad company caused to be
prepared a plat for an outer harbor at Chicago.
the said city of Chicago, and said fund shall be equitably distributed by the
common council between the South Division, the West Division and the
North Division of the said city, upon the basis of the assessed value of
the taxable real estate of each of said divisions, and shall be applied to the
purchase and improvement in ech of said divisions, or in the vicinity
thereof, of a public park, or parks, and for no'other purpose whatsoever.
"§ 3. The right of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, under the
grant from the State in its charter, which said grant constitutes a part of
the consideration for which the said company pays to the State at least
seven per cent-of its gross earnings, and under and by virtue of its appropriation, occupancy, use and control, and the riparian ownership incident
to such grant, appropriation, occupancy, use and control in and to the
lands submerged or otherwise lying east of the said line running parallel
with and four hundred feet east of the west line of Michigan Avenue, in
fractional sections ten (10) and fifteen (15), township and range as aforesaid, is hereby confirmed, and all the right and title of the State of Illinois
in and to the submerged lands constituting the bed of Lake Michigan, and
lying east of the tracks and breakwater of the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, for the distance of one mile, and between the south line of the
south pier extended eastwardly and a line e: tended eastward from the south
line of lot twenty-one, south of and near to the round-house ad'd machine
shops of said company, in the South Division of the §aid city of Chicago,
are hereby granted, in fee, to-the said Illinois Central Railroad Company, its
successors and assigns: -Provided,however, That the fee to said lands shall
be held by said company in perpetuity, and tlmt the said company shall
not have power to grant, sell or convey the fee to the same; and that all
gross receipts from use, profits, leases or otherwise of said lands, or th
improvements thereon, or that may hereafter be made thereon, shall form
a part of the gross proceeds, receipts and income of the said Illinoi;
Central Railroad Company, upon which said company shall forever pay
into the State treasury, semi-annually, the per centum provided for in
itN charter, in accordance with the requirements of said charter: And
pyruided, also, That nothing herein contained shall authorize obstructions
to the Chicago harbor, or impair the public right of navigation; nor shall
this act be construed to exempt the Illinois Central Railroad Company, its
lessees or assigns, from any act of. the General Assembly which may be
hereafter passed regulating the rates of wharfage and dockage to be
charged in said harbor: And provided further, That any of the lands hereby
granted to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and the improvements
now, or which may hereafter be on the same, which shall hereafter be
leased by said Illinois Central Railrbad Company to any person or corporation, or which may hereafter be occupied by any person or corporation
other than said Illinois Central Railroad Company, shall not, during the

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

407

Statement of the Case.

On the 12th of July of the same year the Illinois Central
Railroad Company, the Mlichigan Central Railroad Company,
continuance of such leasehold estate or of such occupancy, be exempt from
municipal or other taxation.
"§ 4. All the right and title of the State of Illinois, in and to the lands,
submerged or otherwise lying north of the south line of Monroe street, and
south of the south line of Randolph street, and between the east line of
Michigan Avenue and the track and roadway of the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, and constituting parts of fractional sections ten (10) and fifteen
(15) in said township thirty-nine (39), as aforesaid, are hereby granted, in
fee, to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, the Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railroad Company, and the Michigan Central Railroad Company,
their successors and assigns, for the erection thereon of a passenger depot,
and for such other purposes as the business of said company may require:
.Provided, That upon all gross receipts of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, from leases of its interest in said grounds, or improvements thereon,
or other uses of the same, the per centum provided for in the charter of
said company shall forever be paid in conformity with the requirements of
said charter.
"§ 5. In consideration of the grant to the said Illinois Central, Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy, and Michigan Central Railroad Companies of the
land as aforesaid, said companies are hereby required to pay to said city of
Chicago the sum of eight hundred thousand dollars, to be paid in the following manner, viz.: two hundred thousand dollars within three months
from and after the passage of this act; two hundred thousand dollars
within six months from and after the passage of this act; two hundred
thousand dollars within nine months from and after the passage of this act;
two hundred thousand dollars within twelve months from and after the
passage of this act; which said sums shall be placed in the Park Fund of
the said city of Chicago, and shall be distributed in like manner as is hereinbefore provided for the distribution of the other funds which may be
obtained by said city from the sale of the lands conveyed to it by this act.
"§ 6. The common council of the said city of Chicago is hereby authorized and empowered to quitclaim and release to the said Illinois Central
Railroad Company, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company,
and the Michigan Central Railroad Company any and all claim and interest
in and upon any and all of said land north of the south line of Monroe
Street, as aforesaid, which the said city may have by virtue of any expenditures and improvements thereon or otherwise, and in case the said common
council shall neglect or refuse thus to quitclaim and release to the said
companies, as aforesaid, within four months from and after the passage of
this act, then the said companie't shall be discharged from all obligation to
pay the balance remaining unpaia to said city.
"§ 7. The grants to the Illinois Central Railroad Company contained in
this act are hereby declared to be upon the express condition that said

OCTOBER TER-f, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

and the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company,
by an agent, tendered to Walter Kimball, the comptroller of
the city of Chicago, the sum of $200,000, as the first payment
to the city under the fifth section of the act of 1869. Ie
received the sum tendered upon the express condition that
none of the city's rights be thereby waived, or its interest in
any manner prejudiced, and placed the money in bank on
special deposit, to await the action and direction of the conmon council. The matter being brought to the attention of
that body, it adopted, June 13, 1870, a resolution, declaring
that the city "will not recognize the act of Walter Kimball
in receiving said 'money, as binding upon the city, and that
the city will not receive any money from railroad companies,
under said act of the General Assembly, until forced to do so
by the courts." The city never quitclaimed or released, nor
offered to quitclaim or release, to said companies or to either
of them, any right, title, claim or interest in or to any of the
land described in the act of 1869, nor was Kimball's act in
receiving the money ever recognized by the city as binding
upon it. On the expiration of his term of office he did not
turn the money over to his successor in office, but kept it
deposited in bank to his own individual credit, and so kept it
until some time during the year 1874, or later, when, upon
application by the railroad companies, he returned it to them.
No other money than the $200,000 delivered to Kimball was
ever tendered by the railroad companies, or either of them, to
the city or to any of its officers.
At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, held at the company's office in New
York, July 6, 1870, a resolution was adopted to the effect
"that this company accepts the grants under the act of the
Illinois Central Railroad Company shall perpetually pay into the Treasury
of the State of Illinois the per centum on the gross or total proceeds,
receipts or income derived from said'road and branches stipulated in its
charter, and also the per centum on the gross receipts of said company
reserved in this act.
"§ 8. This act shall be a public act and in force from and after its
passage."

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

409

Statement of the Case.

legislature at its last session, and that the president give
noticethereof to the State, and that the company has cominenced work upon the shore of the lake at Chicago under the
grants referred to." On the 17th of November, 1870, its presi(lent communicated a copy of this resolution to the Secretary
of State of Illinois, and gave the notice therein required, adding: "You will please regard the above as an acceptance by
this company of the above-mentioned law [Lake Front Act],
and it is desired by said company that said acceptance shall
remain permanently on file and of record in your office." The
Secretary of State replied, under date of November 18, 1870:
"Yours of the 17th inst., being a notice of the acceptance by
the Illinois Central Railroad Company of the grants under an
act of the legislature of Illinois, in force April 16, 1869, was
this day received and filed and duly recorded in the records of
this office."
Following -these transactions were certain proceedings, commenced about July 1, 1871, by information filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States for that District by the United
States against the Illinois Central Railroad Company. That
inforrhation set forth that Congress, in order to promote the
convenience and safety of vessels navigating Lake Michigan,
had, from time to time, appropriated and expensed large sums
of money in and about the mouth of Chicago River, and had
constructed two piers extending from the north and south
banks of that river eastwardly for a considerable distance ihto
the lake; that, in July, 1870, it appropriated a large sum of
money to construct an outer harbor at Chicago, in accordance
with the plans of the Engineer Department of the United
States; that the railroad company had, from time to time,
wrongfully filled up with earth a portion of said lake. within
said harbor; that what the company had then done, in that
way, and what it intended to do, unless prevented, would
materially interfere with the execution of the plan of improvement adopted by the War Department. A temporary injunction was issued against the company. Subsequently, in 1872,
the parties to that suit entered into astipulation, from which
it appears that the matters referred -to in said information,

OCTOBER TERAS, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

relating to the construction of docks and wharves in the basin
or outer harbor of the city, formed by the breakwater then in
process of erection by the United States, were referred to the
War Department, and that the Secretary, upon the recommendation of engineer officers, approved certain lines, limiting the
construction of docks and wharves in said outer harbor, to wit:
commencing at the pier on the south side of the entrance to
the Chicago River, 1200 feet west of the government breakwater; thence south to an intersection with the north line of
Randolph street extended eastwardly; thence due west 800
feet; and thence south to the east and west breakwater proposed to be constructed by the United States 4000 feet south
of the pier first above mentioned, the line so established being
fixed as the line to which docks and wharves may be extended
by parties entitled to construct them within said outer harbor.
The railroad company desiring to proceed, under the supervision of the Engineer Bureau of the United States, with the
construction of docks and wharves within the proposed outer
harbor, between the .pier on the south side of the entrance to
Chicago River and the north line of Randolph street, extended
eastwardly in conformity with the said limiting lines, and hay'ing agreed to observe said lines, as well as the directions which
might be given, in reference to the construction of said docks
and wharves, by the proper officers of said bureau, the injunctional order, pursuant to stipulation between the parties, was,
January 16, 1872, vacated, and the information dismissed, with
leave to the United States to reinstate the same upon the
failure of the company, in good faith, to observe the said
conditions.
Subsequently, the railroad company resumed work on, and,
during the year 1879, completed, Pier No. 1 adjacent to the
river and east of the breakwater of 1869.
On the 15th of April, 1873, the legislature of Illinois passed
the following act, which was in force from and after July 1,
187 3:
"§ 1. Be it enacted, etc., That the act entitled 'An act in
relation to a portion of the submerged lands and Lake Park
grounds lying on and adjacent to the shore of Lake Michigan,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

411

Statement of the Case.
on the eastern frontage of the city of Chicago,' in force April
16, 1869, be and the same is hereby repealed." Ill. Laws of
1873, 115.
In 1880 and 1881 Piers Nos. 2 and 3, north of Randolph
street, were constructed in conformity with plans submitted
to and approved by the War Department.
The common council of Chicago, by ordinance approved
July 12, 1881, extended Randolph street eastwardly, and declared it to be a public street, from its then eastern terminus
"to the west line of the right of way of the Illinois Central
Railroad Company, as established by the ordinance of September 10, 1855, . . . and also straight eastwardly
from the easterly line of Slip C, produced southerly to Lake
Michigan;" giving permission to the company to construct
and maintain at its own expense, within the line of Randolph
street so extended and over the company's tracks and right
of way, a bridge or viaduct, with suitable approaches, to be
approved by the Commissioners of Public Works, which should
*beforever free to the public and to all persons having occasion
to pass and repass thereon. Such a bridge or viaduct was
necessary in order that the piers constructed and in process of
construction east of the breakwater of 1869 might be conveniently reached by teams. The viaduct was built in 1881, and
extends to the base of Pier 3. It has ever since been used by
the public.
It appears from the evidence that in 1882, the pier, which
was built in 1870 from Twelfth street to the north line, extended,
of lot 21, was continued as far south as the centre line of Sixteenth street. The main object of this extension, according to
the showing made by the company, was to protect the tracks
from the waves during storms from the northeast. Another
object was to construct a slip or basin south of the south line
of lot 21, between the breakwater and the shore, where vessels
loaded with materials for the company, or having freight to be
handled, could enter and be in safety. In 1885, a pier was
constructed by the company at the foot of Thirteenth street,
according to a plan submitted to the War Department; and
the department did not object to its construction, "provided

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

no change be made in its location and length." The pier, as
constructed, does not differ from that proposed and approved,
except that it is wider by fifty feet. But it does not appear
that the War Department regards that change in the plan as
injurious to navigation, or as interfering with the plans of the
government for an outer harbor.
At the hearing in the court below, a map was used for the
purpose of showing the different works constructed by the
United States; the location of all the structures and buildings
erected by the railroad company, with the date of their erection; and the relation of the tracks and breakwaters of the
company to the shore as it now is, and, to some extent, as it
was heretofore.
That map, known as the Morehouse map, and called 0, is
substantially reproduced on page 413.
The State, in the original suit, asks a decree establishing
and confirming its title to the bed of Lake Michigan, and its
sole and exclusive right to develop the harbor of Chicago, by
the construction of docks, wharves, etc., as against the claim
by the railroad company that it has an absolute title to said
submerged lands, described in the act of 1869, and the rightsubject to the paramount authority of the United States in respect to the regulation of commerce between the States - to
fill the bed of the lake, for the purposes of its business, east of
and adjoining the premises betiveen the river and the north
line of Randolph street, and also north of the south line of
Lot 21; and, also, the right, by constructing and maintaining
wharves, docks, piers, etc., to improve the shore of the lake,
for the purposes of its business, and/ for the promotion, generally, of commerce and navigation. The State, insisting that
the company has, without right, erected, and proposes to
continue to erect, wharves, piers, etc., upon the domain of
the State, asks that such unlawful structures be directed to be
removed, and the company enjoined from constructing others.
The city, by its cross-bill, insists that since June 7, 1839,
when the map of Fort Dearborn addition was recorded, it has
had the control and use for public purposes of that part of
section 10 which lies east of Michigan Avenue and between

N,

-I

OCTOBER TERMT, 1892.
Mr. Ayer's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

Randolph street and fractional section fifteen; and that, as
successor-of the town of. Chicago, it has had possession and
control since June 13, 1836, when the map. of Fractional
Section 15 Addition was recorded, of the lands in that Addition north of block 23. It asks a decree declaring that it is
the owner in fee, and of the riparian rights thereunto appertaining, of all said lands, and has under existing legislation,
the exclusive right to develop the harbor of Chicago by the
construction of docks, wharves and levees, and to dispose of
the same by lease or otherwise as authorized by law; and that
the railroad company be enjoined from interfering with its
said rights and ownership.
The railroad company, the State and the city, each appealed from the final decree.
In the arguments, some points were taken and many cases
cited thereto, which are not noticed or referred to in the opinion of the court infra.
.Afr. Benjarnin F. Ayer for the Illinois Central Railroad
Company.
I. The railroad company is charged in the information with
an invasion of the proprietary interest of the State in the bed
of the lake. The encroachments complained of are upon the
jusyrivaturA or right of property asserted by the Stat&, and
not upon the j? su lictrm or governmental control over navigable waters vested in the State for public purposes. There
is a broad distinction between a violation of the public right
in navigable waters and an invasion of the proprietary interest
of the sovereign. The one creates a public nuisance; the
other a purpresture.
II. The complainants allege and the respondent admits,
that upon the admission of Illinois into the Union in 1818 the
title to the bed of Lake MHichigan, or so much of it as lies
within the boundaries of the State, became vested in the
State.
Upon the separation of the British Colonies in America
from thb mother country, they succeeded as sovereign States
to the title of the crown in the tide waters within their terri-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

415

Mr. Ayer's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

tor-& limits. Both the jus ublicum and the ju _privatum,
which before then had been vested in the crown and parliament, or in the local governments established under the royal
sanction, became vested in the several States. They acquired
not only the ownership of the soil under navigable waters, but
also the legislative authority to regulate and control the rights
of the public. All the prerogatives and powers which before
belonged either to the crown or parliament, became immediately vested in the State. .fartin v. lVaddell, 16 Pet. 367;
Smith v. flaryland, 18 How. 71; Coniimonwealth v. Alger,
7 Cush. 53; Nichols v. Boston, 98 Mass. 39; . C. 93 Am.
Dec. 132; People v. New -York & Staten Island Ferry Co.,
68 N. Y. 71;' .Langdon v. Afayor of _Yew York, 93 N. Y. 129;
Stevens v. Patterson and HVewark Railroad, 34 N. J. Law
(5 Vroom) 532.
The foregoing cases relate to lands under tide waters; but
the principles enunciated are equally applicable to navigable
waters above the flow of the tide. St. Clair County v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46; Barney v. -eokuk, 94 U. S. 324; Packer v.
Bird, 137 U. S. 661; Bardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371.
III. The Illinois Central Railroad Company was authorized
and required by its charter to lay out and construct a railroad
into the city of Chicago. To aid in building the road, extensive grants of land were made by the State to the Company
-among them, the following: "SEC. 3. The said corporation shall have right of way upon, and may appropriateto its
sole use and control for the purposes contemplated herein, land
not exceeding two hundred feet in width, through its entire
length: may enter upon arid take possession of and use all
and singular any lands, streams and materials of every kind,.
for the'location of depots and stopping stages, for the purpose
of constructing bridgesi dams, embankments,
station
grounds,
turn-outs, engine-houses, shops and other
buildings necessary for the construction, completing, altering,
maintaining, preserving and complete operation of said road.
All such lands, waters, materials and privileges belonging to
the State, are hereby granted to said corporation for said
purposes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Ayer's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

The effect of these words is obviously to invest the company
with a complete title to all the lands belonging to the State,
which should be required and taken for the purposes mentioned. Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Upper Potomac Steamboat
Co., 109 U. S. 672, 680; 'Fan, ess v. Washington, 4 Pet.
232, 284.
The right of the company to appropriate to its use the
lands of the State, is coixtensivo with the power conferred
by the same section of the charter to acquire by purchase or
condemnation the lands of private owners. The latter is
a continuing power which may be exercised from time to
time as the necessities of the company may require. Chicago
and West. Indiana Railroad v. Illinois Central Railroad,
113 Illinois, 156 ; Chticago, Biurlington &c. Railroad v. Tfiison, 17 Illinois, 123; 1K .. & arlem Railroad v. Zip, 46
N. Y. 546.

IV. The consent of the common council of Chicago to the
location of the railroad within the city, was required by the
eighth section of the company's charter. An ordinance
granting that consent was passed June 14, 1852, and a formal
contract under seal was entered into between the railroad cornpany and the city, in which it was covenanted that the ordinance should be of perpetual obligation, and that each party
would abide by and perform all the obligations therein contained according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
The assent was given on conditions which were extremely
burdensome, but they have been fully complied with. The
railroad was located and built in the open waters of the lake
in front of fractional sections ten and fifteen, as directed by
the common council; and the company had been in peaceable
possession of the grounds appropriated for that purpose, with
the exception of a strip one hundred feet in width on the east
side of the railroad tracks, for thirty years before the cominencement of this suit. The proof shows that the ordinance
was accepted by the railroad company. The company did
not immediately occupy all the land described; but the title
to land is not lost by leaving it in its natural state without
improvement. Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Upper Potomac

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

417

Mr. Ayer's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672, 68-; Boston v. Lecraw, 17 How.
426, 436; Barclay v. Howell's Lessee, 6 Pet. 498, 504, 505.
The company took possession of so much of the land as
was then needed. When more became necessary for the
proper conduct of its business, it attempted to take possession
of the rest, and was prevented, not by the interference of the
city -for

the city did nbt object - but by the action of the

War Department which has control of the .harbor. That
there was any election by the company to relinquish the right
to the additional one hundred feet, or that the company is in
any way estopped from claiming its rights against the city
and State, is a conclusion, we respectfully submit. nnt warranted by any evidence in the record.
V. The railroad company's title to all the land it had
reclaimed from the lake lying east of the west line of the
railway in fractional sections ten and fifteen, was confirmed
by the act of April 16, 1869. A confirmation by a law, is as
fully to all intents and purposes a grant, as if it contained in
terms a grant de novo. Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410;
Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319; _Byan v. Carter, 93
U. S. 78; Morrow v. Whitney, 95 U. S. 551.
VI. By the same act a further grant was made to the
railroad company in the following terms: "All the right and
title of the State of Illinois in and to the submerged land
constituting the bed of Lake Michigan, and lying east of the
tracks and breakwater of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, for the distance of one mile and between the south line
of the south pier extended eastwardly-and a line extended
eastward from the south line of lot 21, south of and near to
the round-house and machine shops of said company in the
south division of the city of Chicago, are hereby granted, in
fee, to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, its successors
and assigns."
It s manifest that the legislature intended to transfer, by
this act, all the proprietary interest which the State had in the
granted premises to the railroad company. The words used
in the granting clause are words of present grant, and import
an immediate transfer of title. There is no subsequent reVOL. =XLVI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Ayer's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

straining clause. The language admits, therefore, of no other
hulenber v.H]-arriman,21 Wall. 44; Leaveninterpretation.
worth, Lawrence &c. Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733;
Railroad Company v. Baldwin, 103 U. g. 420; 1Vright v.
Roseberry, 121 U. S. 48S; -Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142
U. S. 24-1. The title of the State became completely extinguished, and the entire estate in the land, subject only to the
conditions annexed to the grant, became vested in the railroad
company.
VII. The repeal of the act of April 16, 1869, did not divest
'the title which had become vested in the railroad company.
Private rights which have vested under a legislative act are
not affected by a repeal 6f the law, and cannot be annulled

by subsequent legislation. A State does not possess the power
of revoking-its own grants.
It has been for more than eighty years the settled doctrine
of this court, that a grant of land made by a State and
accepted by the grantee is an executed contract, within thb
protection of that clause of the Constitution of the United
States, which declares that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts. -Fletcher v. Peek, 6
Cranch, 87.
The right to acquire property, and to be secure in the
enjoyment of it when lawfully acquired, has been placed
beyond legislative encroachment everywhere in the United
States. In some form of words, the constitution of every
State contains a provision, that "no person shall be deprived
of life, liberty or property, without due process of law";
and since the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment in
1868, the same check on the abuse of legislative power has
been pirovided by the Constitution of the United States.
That railroad corporations are withif the purview of this
provision is settled by repeated decisions of this court. Santa
Clara Uountly v. Southern Paciflo Railroadl, 118 tT. S. 394;
M3inneapolis & St. Louis Railway v. Beekwith, 129 U. S. 26;
Charlotte, Columbia &e. Railroad v. Gibbes, 142 U. S. 86.
'Tir qct of April 16, 1869, was, repealed on the 15th ot
Atril, -873. During the intervening period of four years th

ILLINOIS CENTRAL. RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

419

Mr. Miller's Argument for the City of Chicago.

title to the land in controversy was vested in the railroad
company. The company still holds the title, unless it shall be
held that the repealing act was "due process of law."
.r.

John S. .ATiller for the City of Chicago.

It is a matter of common knowledge that large expenditures have been made by the city of Chicago in the improvement of its harbor, the United States not having appropriated
or spent any money for this harbor west of the Rush street
bridge, which is near the mouth of the river, Escanaba Co.
v. Ohicago, 107 U. S. 678, and that the State of Illinois has
never spent any money for that purpose.
The-city has, in addition to its property interests upon the
lake front, an interest and standing herein to protect and conserve this great harbor from encroachment and appropriation
to private uses.
It is also the owner in fee, in trust for public uses, of the
public grounds in section 10, south of the north line of Randolph street, upon.the shore of the lake, and in section 15,
known as Lake Park, and as such is entitled to the rights
of riparian owner. The invasion of the shore upon this
public ground south of Randolph street was the result of
building the government piers at the mouth of the river.
The natural effect of the waters, unaffected by these artificial
causes, was to cause accretions along this front, but the
current created by the construction of these piers and the
turning off of the effect of storms, caused avulsion by which
the shore was, not imperceptibly, but perceptibly and suddenly
carried away.
This invasion of the water up to 1852, when the Illinois
Central Railroad was constructed, had not changed the ownership. Boston v. Lecraw, 17 How. 426; Potomac Steamboat
Co. v. Ujpper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672. And:
this fact was recognized by the railroad company as well as
by the city, in the ordinance of June 14, 1852, and the agreement made in pursuance thereof.
The city, being thus the owner of the shore, has all rights

OCTOBER TER.12,

1892.

Mr. Miller's Argument for the City of Chicago.

of a riparian owner and its ownership includes any additions
to the shore made by natural accretions or by art or industry.
Barca y v. lBowell, 6 Pet. 498; ffew Orleans v. United States,
10 Pet. 662, 717; -Barney v. Xeokuk, 94: U. S. 324; Godfrey
v. Alton, 12 Illinois, 29; S. '. 52 Am. Dec. 476; COicago
Dock & Canal Co. v. Kinzie, 93 Illinois, 415.
The grant to the city of the power to establish wharves and
slips was in aid of commerce and navigation, and was, by
necessary implication, a grant of the lands upon which such
wharves and slips might be established, such grant taking
effect when structures of that kind were erected. Williams v.
.f-rayor,105 N. Y. 436. The same may be said of the grant
of power to the .city by the act of 1847, to build the breakwater. Such riparian right is property right which is within
constitutional protection. Yates v. Ifilwaukee, 10 Wall. 497;
Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 23; Railway 6o. v. Renwickc, 102
U. S. 180; Railroad v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272. And it would
not be competent for the legislature to grant away the adjacent soil under the lake to a private person or corporation,
and thus cut off the riparian right of the shore owner. This
adjacency and access, and the right to maintain them to his
advantage, and to preserve and improve them, and the enjoyment of the land, and of the navigable water in connection
therewith, is of the essence of this riparian right. Stevens v.
Patterson c&]9ewark-Railroad, 341 N. J. -L. (5 Vroom,) 532;
lKeyport 0ase, 3 0. IE. Green, (18 N. 5. Eq.) 516; Lyon v.
Fishmongers' Co., 1 App. Cas. 662, 672; Potomac Sealpboat
Co. v. Upper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672, 683.
By the contract made by the railroad company with the
city by the ordinance of June 14, 1852, and the agreement of
March 28, 1853, the city and property owners acquired rights
in furtherance of the special use to which this property was
devoted, which could not be impaired. They got the breakwater or barrier along the shore, 'ixing the shore line and
protecting this trust property from encroachment. And the
city, as riparian proprietor, had implied authority to erect
wharves along the broad street; levee or public ground upon
the shore, which was dedicated for the purpose of a landing-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

421

Mr. Miller's Argument for the City of Chicago.

place as well as a street by authority of the State, and, it would
seem, had, incidentally, the right to charge a compensation for
their use. Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389. It is clear that
the legislature could not grant a way to the Illinois Central
Railroad Company over the soils under the navigable waters
of the harbor in front of this ground.
If the rights of the city and its inhabitants in this lake front
ground and in the harbor in front thereof are not within
the constitutional protection. because thiey are public, how
much more is that true of the subject-matter of the act of
1869? The subject-matter of that act, and of the alleged
grant thereby made to the Illinois Central Railroad Company,
was strictly publicijuris. The bed of Lake Michigan, so far
as the same is not affected with the rights of the riparian
owner, is held by the people of the State of Illinois in their
sovereign capacity, and die communi jure, and -wholly in trust
for the public, and for the public uses, for which it is adapted.
And the same was not held by the State in any proprietary
or private right or as its demesne, and was not as to ,a large
tract, extending a mile into the deep water of the open lake,
and composing the outer harbor, and entrance to the inner
harbor of a great commercial city, the subject of a private
grant or contract.
The doctrine which draws a distinction between a jusprivatum and a jus publicum, or a dividing the ownership or
right of the sovereign in the bed of navigable waters into a
private right. and ' public right, which is alleged to have
existed in the law of England, can have no place in our institutions. The rights of the people of the State in this country
-their
sovereignty and 'jurisdiction over the waters -are
not governed by the common law of England as it prevailed
in the colonies before the Revolhtion, but as modified by our
own institutions. Martin v. Waddell'8 -Lessee, 16 Pet. 367,
410; Pollard'sZessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 229.
The ownership by the people of the State of the soils under
navigable waters is, in its nature, entirely different from the
title to the public lands or the demesne of the soereign or
State. That is not only shown by what is above said, and the

OCTOBER TER-M, 1892.
Mr. Miller's Argument for the City of Chicago.

authorities quoted, but is emphasized by this court in Pollard's
Lessee v. H7agan, 3 How. 212, and Ieber v. 11arbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57.
It must be clear, therefore, tlht in this country the right
or ownership of the people of the State in the soils under
navigable waters is wholly jus publicurn and in trust for

public uses.
And further, at the time of the passage of the act of 1869,
no docks or wharves could be permitted to extend into the
lake more than 1300 feet (where the line was established by
the engineers of the United States in 1871,) without seriously
encroaching upon the public right of navigation. This must
be held to have been known at the time of the passage of that
act. The United States government breakwater, which was
built as an outside breakwater, to enclose and protect the harbor of refuge from the violence of the lake, is about threefifths of a mile from the shore, and the dock line established
by the United States engineers as the limit beyond which
docks should not be built, between which and the shore there
would be slips in which vessels could enter and ride, is about
1300 feet east of the shore. The water at this point is not
within an arm of the lake ; there are not points or projections
of land within which these waters were enclosed; this entire
one and four-fifths square miles of the bed of Lake Michigan
was under the open, deep navigable waters of the lake. It
was a public port, and as such free by the common law.
It does not help the case of the railroad company herein to
say that the British Parliament might have made such a grant,
and that the legislature of Illinois has in that respect, all the
powers of parliament.. Parliament never did make such a
grant. And if parliament could make the grant under the
English constitution, so by its same absolute power it could
take it away. Parliament therefore could not make such an
irrevocable grant as the railroad company here claims.
Neither did the act of April 16, 1869, constitute a contract
between the State and the railroad company within the meaning and protection of section 10, article 1, of the Constitution
of the United States, prohibiting the passage of laws impairing

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

423

Mr. Gregory's Argument for the City of Chicago.

the obligations of contracts. It did not invest the company
with such property rights in the soil and bed of the lake in the
harbor of the city of Chicago, which is covered by the act,
as is within the meaning and protection of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution. The act, if sustainable as
valid, can be sustained only because it invested the railroad
company with certain strictly public powers and trusts as a
public agency and for the public good. Being without consideration, it was a mere license, revocable at the will of the legislature, if it authorized the railroad company to make any
private use of the bed of the lake. It was purely voluntary.
It created no obligation on the part of the railroad company.
The charter of the railroad company and this act of 1869
are to be strictly construed against the railroad company, and
to give nothing by an implication which is not necessary and
unavoidable. Grants of the sovereign are to be construed
strictly against the grantee; they are not to be understood as
diminishing its rights beyond what is taken away by necessary
and unavoidable construction. The Rebeckah, 1 C. Rob. 230,
per Lord Stowell. .Monroe v. Commissioners, 2 Black, 720;
Bridge Proprietors v. lobolcen Co., 1 Wall, 116; Rice v.
Railroad Co., 1 Black, 358.
It follows that the repealing act of April 15, 1873, was
valid, as to the entire act of 1869. Moreover, if the act of
1869 could, upon a proper construction, be held to give the
railroad company any beneficial right, that right extinguishing
or affecting the public right, arises from the exercise by the
legislature of the police power over the public use of navigable
waters, for the public welfare, and is revocable. And the
repealing act is the exercise of the police power. Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53, 95. The soil under navigable
waters being held by the people of the State, de jure commwni,
in trust for the common use, as a portion of their inherent
sovereignty, any act of legislation affecting their use relates
to the jus publicum, and affects the public welfare; and is,
therefore, the exercise of the police power-

.fr. S. S. Gregory for the city of Chicago.

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Mr. Gregory's Argument for the City of Chicago.

By section 3 of the railroad company's charter, it was provided that the corporation should have the "right of way upon
and may appropriate to its sole use and control for the purposes contemplated herein, land not exceeding two hundred
feet in width through its entire length; may enter upon and
take possession of, and use all and singular any lands, streams
and materials of every kind, for the location of depots and stopping stages, for the purpose of constructing bridges, dams, embankments, excavations, station grounds, spoil banks, turnouts,
engine houses, shops and other buildings necessary for the construction, completing, altering, maintaining, preserving and coinplete operation of said road. All such lands, waters, materials
and privileges belonging to the State, are hereby granted -to
said corporation for said purposes."
Having regard to the rules of construction which apply to
the grant of corporate powers and privileges from the State, it
cannot be successfully maintained that this provision in the
charter would confer any right upon the corporation to invade
the bed or waters of Lake Michigan, of its track in Lake
Michigan or upon its bed. The section concludes with a proviso against any construction of the act which would warrant
the coilipany in interrupting the navigation of "said streams."
It is quite apparent, also, that this charter contemplated that
the railroad company should take a right of way upon land
not exceeding two hundred feet in width, and that the grant of
land, waters, etc., belonging to the State to the corporation
was for such purpose -namely, the right of way and use and
control for the purpose of a railroad, as contemplated by the
charter.
Between Randolph street and Park Row the railroad company has, therefore, merely a right of way under its charter.
Prior to this location, the territory being concededly within
the corporate limits of the city of Chicago, the railroad company applied for and obtained the consent of its common
council to the location of its road within the city limits, and
entered into an agreement with that body, dated the 28th of
March, 1853, accepting a location, three hundred feet in width,
from the southern boundary of the public ground near Twelfth

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

425

Mr. Gregory's Argument for the City of Chicago.

street to the northern line of Randolph street." The company
did not see fit to avail itself of a right of way to the full width
of three hundred feet, but, on the contrary took a right of way
of two hundred feet, and constructed its breakwater or shore
protection two hundred feet east from the western line of its
right of way instead of three hundred feet, as it might have
done under the ordinance, though not under its charter, and it
has since continued to use this right of way as thus limited
and defined.
It is not, therefore, true that the railroad company was the
owner of the fee of this right of way, as was argued in the
court below, and may perhaps be argued in this court. It had
merely an easement or right of Way in this land, which neither
conferred any riparian right upon the railroad, nor affected
such right in the owner of the land over which the right of
way extended. Banks -v. Ogden, 2 Wall. 57. The riparian
right was in the city.
It would seem obvious that a fair construction of the charter
powers of the city would include a right to build wharves
on the lake front, or the east side, if it may be so called, of
Michigan Avenue. That seems' to be the clear purport of
the decision of this court in Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Uper
Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672. There was a legislative purpose to effectuate the dedication of this public grant as
a water front or public landing place, authority to improve
which was to be vested in the city, and full municipal control
over which and th6 adjacent harbor was to be committed to
the city.
If it be conceded that these rights in the city are held at
the pleasure of the legislature, then it may be said, to that extent anticipating the course of the argument, that if the act of
1869 be construed as devolving similar rights and privileges
upon the railroad company as another or substituted public
agency, and thus withdrawing them from the city, the company should be considered to hold those rights upon the
same tenure as that of the city, prior to this substitution;
and the grant in fee of the bed of the lake is to be regarded
wholly as in aid of the right to dock and wharf, expressing

OCTOBER TERle, 1892.
Mr. Gregory's Argument for the City of Chicago.

only what, by necessary implication, would have passed without formal grant.
It is not contended that these lot owners have strictly and
technically riparian rights in the premises, but they are beneficiaries of the trust created by the dedication, and have a right
to insist, as hld by this court, upon its specific execution.
Barcly v. HUowell's Lessee, 6 Pet. 498. The rights of abutting
lot owners to insist upon the appropriation of property dedicated to a specific public use in accordance with iuch dedication is fully recognized in the following cases: Trustees v.
TFalsh, 57 Illinois, 363, 369; Maywood Co. v. .Maywood, 118
Illinois, 61, 72; Jacksonville v. Jacksonville Railway, 67
Illinois, 540; 1oose v. Carson, 104 N. Car. 431; Zinw Co. v.
Za SalZe, 117 Illinois, 411; Cincinnati v. TJFite's -Lessee, 6
Pet. 431; Barney v. Kieo kt, 94 U. S. 324, 339, 340, 342.
The righ't of a State to hold the soil under its navigable
waters for all municipal purposes is exclusive. If it holds title
to such lands upon trusts for public use, it may be that it has
power to release to an individual or a corporation such title as
it has, not thereby emancipating the trust estate from the execution of the trust with which it stands charged, but substituting its grantee as the trustee of this trust. Such would be
the effect of legislation authorizing any other public agency,
as the city of Chicago, or perhaps the railroad company, to
undertake the construction of wharves and docks in aid of
navigation, and in execution of the public trust, subject to which
title to the land under navigable waters rests in the State.
But to say this is far from saying that the State as proprietor,
or the legislature of a State by law in the exercise of plenary
legislative power, such as is enjoyed by the parliament of
England, may grant title to the bed of navigable waters. In
so'far as such grant is made in aid of navigation, as by way of
granting flats which are an obstacle to navigation, or of shore
privileges, the exercise of which is a positive aid to navigation,
the State acts clearly within its duty as trustee for the great
public trust attaching to its title.
As a proprietor in the sense in which it is the proprietor of
lands, title to which rests in the State for the purpose of sale

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

427

Mr. Gregory's Argument for the City of Chicago.

and disposition, it has no title whatever to the bed of water
actually navigable and required for the purposes of navigation.
Its interest, while referred to in the case cited as proprietary,
is essentially sovereign and municipal. It is not the subject of
grant but of regulation by law, and disposition by law is not
unrestrained as is the case in England, but in so far as attempted in derogation of the trust for public navigation, is
absolutely prohibited by the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution.
Probably the history of American jurisprudence will hot
reveal a case in which an attempt by the State to abdicate
its sovereign title to the bed of a great extent of navigable
water manifestly required for the purposes of commerce and
navigation, has been either made by a legislature or sanctioned by the courts. Treated as a grant by a proprietor
such legislation would be inoperative because the grantor has
no such title as he attempts to c6nvey. Treated as an exercise of sovereign legislative power it would be absolutely
void as a positive infraction of the Federal Constitution. No
such attempt was made in this case, and no reasonable construction of the legislative act under review will permit counsel justly to tax the legislature of Illinois with such a wanton
abuse of power and gross breach of high and important
public trust.
All the cases establish that although the State may have in
a sense a measure. of proprietary right in the bed of navigable
waters within its boundaries, that right pertains to sovereignty,
and a grant thereof confers no such dominion or ownership
upon the grantee as a grant of public lands of the State subject to disposition. Such right ig also qualified by the riparian
rights of shore owners which do not at all depend upon ownership of the bed of the water. Such riparian right is a valuable property right which cannot be taken or impaired by the
State without compensation. This principle is firmly established in this country by the adjudications of this court and
by the great weight of modern authority. Dutton v. Strong,
1 Black, 213 ; Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272 ; Yates
v. Mibwaukee, 10 Wall. 497 ; Weber v. Harbor Commissioners,

OCTOBER TER NMl,1892.
Mr. Gregory's Argument for the City of Chicago.

18 Wall. 57; St. louis v. Rutz,138 _U. S. 236; Union Depot
Co. v. Brunswick, 31 Minnesota, 297; .iller v. .9fendenihall,
43 Minnfesota, 95; Burton v. Richardson, 105 Mass. 351;
Runsey v. New York & New England Railroad,133 N. Y.
79.
The grant .by the State to the railroad company was wholly
gratuitous. When, in the exercise of legislative discretion, it
appeared that those public purposes, regard for which suggested the gift of these powers to the railroad company, might
be better served by their withdrawal, it was clearly competent for the legislature, having due regard for such property
rights as hhd attached to the subject of their gift in the interval, to resume the subject of its license and to permit
the city to control these essentially public and municipal
frAnchises.
Neither the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, nor
that clause in the Federal Constitution which forbids a State
from passing a law to impair the obligation of contracts in
anywise affect this exercise of legislative discretion.
The State did not attempt to convey the fee to the bed of
the lake, in derogation of the public right of navigation. Its
sovereign or legislative right to convey the bed of water
actually navigable is clearly limited by the clause in the Constitution conferring upon Congress the power to regulate commerce. Subject to this clause its plenary power to grant the
bed of the lake, adjacent to the shore, in aid of commerce and
navigation must be conceded,. subject also, however, to the
right of the State, by subsequent legislation, to regulate and
control the use to which property so bestowed might be put
.by the grantee.
The constitutional questions involved in this case arise on a
cbnsideration of the validity and effect of the repealing act of
April 15, 1873. The company had no property rights under
the act of 1869, except in so far 'as it acted thereunder and
filled in the waters of Lake Michigan, and built wharves
and other erections thereon in accordance with the permission therein contained. To the extent that its property rights
actually attached, it was fully protected by the decree of the

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

429

Mr. Hunt's Argumnent for the State.

Circuit Court. Attorney General v. Boston & Lowell Railroad, 118 Mass. 345.
.Mr. George Hunt, Attorney General of the State, for the
State of Illinois.
I. The lake front act was never passed by the legislature.
II. The subject of that act was not expressed in its title.
III. The railroad company had no power to hold the submerged lands. Ill. Cent. Railroad v: The People, 119 Illinois,
137; 17 re Swigert, 119 Illinois, 83.
IV. The constitution of 1870 repealed all existing charters
or grants of special privileges to corporations, which were
not accepted within ten days after the new constitution took
effect.
V. There was no acceptance of any additional corporate
powers under the lake front act within the time limited by
the constitution.
VI. Under the constitution of 1848 it was not competent
for the General Assembly to grant to the Illinois Central
Company the title to the land in question by a mere legislative act, without the approval of'the governor.
VII. No right was conferred upon the railroad company
by its charter to use the harbor for railroad purposes. St.
Louis &c. Railroad v. Tw stees, 43 Illinois, 303.
VIII. The act of 1869-by its confirmatory clause conferred
no new right. Illinois Central Railroad v. Irwin, 72 Illinois,
452.
IX. The right to construct wharves and piers in the navigable waters of a public harbor does not pass with a grant of
the submerged land:' The authority and duty of the city to
develop the harbor by the extension of streets and piers has
not therefore been taken away, nor has it been deprived of its
riparian rights as owner of the public ground in front of the
harbor. People v. Ferry Co., 68 N. Y. 71; Langdon v. -Yew
KYork City, 93 N. Y. 144."
X. The right to wharf and construct piers in the harbor not
passing with the grant of the submerged land, does not arise

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Jewett's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

by implication from the words of the proviso, and that implication is not of sufficient force to deprive the city of its power
to extend streets as piers, and to take away the riparian rights
of the shore owners. Perrine v. Chesapeake & Delaware
Canal, 9 How. 172.
XI. Tfie rfght to wharf in the harbor, even if given by the
act of 1869, was revocable, and was recalled by the repealing
act of 1873.
XII. The State of Illinois did not possess the power to grant
these submerged lands, underlying the harbor of a great city,
to a railroad corporation. -Martinv. T]addell, 16 Pet. 367.
XII. Whatever wharfing rights and franchises may have
passed by the act of 1869 were recalled by its repeal, because
they were supplementary, and not original privileges, and such
grants and privileges create no contract protected by the Fed'eral Constitution. Salt Company v. Bast Saginaw, 13 Wall.
373.
ilfr. John
Company.

. Jewett closed, for the Illinois Central Railroad

I. The common law doctrine in respect to the ownership,
control aind right of disposition of land under tide waters prevails in this country and is, by repeated decisions of this court,
made applicable to the bodies of fresh water, denominated
"Great Navigable Lakes," which are treated as "Inland Seas."
The rule in respect of all such bodies of water is, that the title
and right of disposition of tb6 land under the waters within
their respective jurisdictions, are vested in the several States by
virtue of their sovereignty as such States. -fManchester v. -3fassachusette, 139 U. S. 240; Smith v. -Maryland,18 How. 71;
toCieady v. Yiginia, 94: L. S.391; 3artin v. Waddell, 16
Pet. 367; Fardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371; Goodtitle v.
Xibbe, 9 How. 471; Doe v. Beebe, 13 How. 25: Pollard's
Lessee v. Hagan, 3 fHow. 212; -fumford v. Wardwell, 6 Wall.
423; TeWeber v. Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57; St. Clair
County v. Zovingston; 23 Wall. 68; Barney v. Feokuk, 94
U. S.324; The Genessee chief, 12.fHow. 443.
II. The riparian owner, in the absence of restrictive legis-

ILLINQIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

431

Mr. Jewett's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

]ation, has the right to connect his shore line, by means of
wharves, piers or docks, constructed in the shallow' waters
immediately bordering upon his land, with the waters which
are navigable in fact, in his own interest as well as in the interest of the public. Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; JFeber
v. Harbor Comimissioners, 18 Wall. 57; -Dutton v. Strong, 1
Black, 23; Railroad Compatny v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272.
111. The making and recording of the maps and plats of the
"Fort Dearborn. Addition to Chicago," by authority.of the
United States, and the sale and conveyance of all the lots
designated upon that map or plat, divested the United States
of all jurisdiction and authority over the land so subdivided
and sold, and of the incidents of ownership pertaining to the
lands. The sovereignty and jurisdiction thereby passed to
the State of Illinois, the ownership of the lots conveyed, to the
purchasers, and the title to the streets, alleys and public
grounds designated on the plat, to the municipal corporation
of Chicago, in trust for the use of the public. Every act of
the city within these powers absolutely accomplished, the State
should respect. Every power of agency, unexecuted, is subject
to revocation, either expressly or by implication. East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Go., 10 How. 511; Von Hofmafn v.

Quincy, 4 Wall. 535.
IV. The making and recording of 'the plats of fractional
section 15 addition to\Cbicago, and of Fort Dearborn addition
to Chicago, and the sale of all the lots in those additions, in
-accordance with those plats, divested the former owners,
although they were the State in one case, and the United
States in the other case,"of all their right, title and estate as
individual proprietors in said additions, including the streets
and public grounds; and the sovereignty and jurisdiction of the
United States over the land comprising -Fort Dearborn addition, was by the plat and the. record of it and the sale of the
lots, absolutely extinguished. In the making and recording of
sheet platsf the State and the United States were acting as private owners, and subject to the law to the same extent that a
citizen would be. .New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662,
710.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Jewett's Argument for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.

V. The act of the general assembly of April 16, 1869,
entitled "An act in relation to a portion of the submerged
lands and Lake Park grounds, lying on and adjacent to the
shore of.Lake Michigan on the eastern frontage of the city of
Chicago" and commonly known as "the Lake Front act,"
was a valid act of legislation, passed in a constitutional way.
Due effect must therefore be given to it as such. To this extent the opinion of Mr. Justice Harlan, and the decree entered
by his direction in this case, support the contention of the
Illinois Central Railroad Company. See also Sch uyler County
v. The People, 25 Illinois, 181 ; Wlabash,Railway v. Hughes, 38
Illinois, 174.
VI. The Illinois Central Railroad Company was in no need
of " the Lake Front Act" as a confirmatory act. Its rights,
so far as covered by the act, as a confirmatory one, were fully
protected by its original charter. The confirmdtion was a
recognition of its existing rights. A grant, originally complete,- is not made stronger by. a subsequent confirmation.
Still, accepting the act of confirmation, with all its consequences, it is respectfully-insisted that confirmation of existing
rights was not the chief purpose of the act itself. This may
be safely assumed from its positive provisions.
VII. The Lake Front act, coupled with the acceptance of
it, made a completed grant,, in accordance with its terms,
taking effect
presenti.
_p
No further act on the part of 'the
State was required, nor was it necessary to perfect the grant.
Rutherford v. Greene, 2 Wheat. 196; H1-arris v. Board qf
Supervisors, 105 Illinois, 445; _avalle. v. Strobel, 89 Illiiols, 370.
VIII. The Act of the General Assembly of the State of
.'linois, of April 15, 1873, purporting to repeal "The Lake
Front act" of April 16, 869, was absolutely void, and did
not and could not'operate to divest the title and rights of the
Illinois Central Railroad Company, granted to it by the earlier
act, othe provisions of which it had formally accepted and
acted upon. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87 ; Nrew Jersey v.
Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Vron -Hoffman v. Qvincy, 4 Wall.
535.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

433

Opinion of the Court.

MR. Jus~ioE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was codimenced on the 1st of March, 1883, in a
Circuit Court of Illinois, by an information or bill in equity,
filed by the Attorney General of the State, in the name of
its people against the Illinois Central Railroad Company, a
corporation created under its laws, and against the city of
Chicago. The United States were also named as a party
defendant, but they never appeared in the suit, and it was
impossible to bring them in as a party without their consent.
The alleged grievances arose solely from the acts and claims
of the railroad company, but the city of Chicago was made
a defendant because of its interest in the subject of the litigation. The railroad company filed its answer in the state court
at the first term after the commencement of the suit, and
upon its petition the case was removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the lNorthern District of Illinois.
In May following the city appeared to the salit and filed its
answer, admitting all the allegations of fact in th6-bill. A
subsequent motion by the complainant to remand the case to
the state court was denied. 16 Fed. Rep. 881. The pleadings were afterwards altered in various particulars.
An
.amended information or bill was filed by the Attorney General, and the-city filed a cross-bill for affirmative relief against
the State and the conrpany. The latter appeared to the crossbill and answered it, as did the Attorney General for the
State. Each party has prosecuted a separate appeal.
The object of the suit is to obtain a judicial determination
of the title of certain lands on the east or lake front of the
city of Chicago, situated between the Chicago River and Sixieenth street, which have been reclaimed from the waters of
the lake, and are occupied by the tracks, depots, warehouses,
piers and other structures used by the railroad company in
its business; and also 6f the title claimed by the company to
the submerged lands, constituting the bgd of the lake, lying
east of its tracks, within the corporate limits of the city, for
the distance of a mile, and between the south line of the south
pier near Chicago River extended eastwardly, and a line
voL. CXLvi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

extended, in the same direction, from the south line of lot 21
near the company's round-house and machine shops. The
determination of the title of the company will involve a
consideration of its right to construct, k
for its own business, as
well as for public convenience, wharves, piers and docks in
the harbor.
We agree with the court below that, to a clear understanding of the numerous questions presented in this case, it was
necessary to trace the history of the title to the several parcels
of land claimed by the company. And the court, in its
elaborate opinion, (33 Fed. Rep. 730,) for that purpose referred
to the legiglation of the United States and of the State, and
to ordinances of the. city and* proceedings thereunder, and
stated, with great minuteness of detail, every material provision of law and every step taken. We have with great care
gone over' the history detailed and are satisfied with its entire
accuracy. It would, .therefore, serve no useful purpose to
repeat what is, in our opinion, clearly and fully narrated. In
what we may say of the rights of the -railroad company, of
the State, arid of the city, remaining hfter the legislation and
proceedings taken, we shall assume the correctness of that
history.
The State of Illinois was admitted into the Union in 1818
on an eqval footing with the original States in all respects.
Such was one of the conditions of the cession from Virginia
of the territory northwest of the Ohio River, out of which the
State was formed. iBut the equality prescribed would have
existed if it had not been thus stipulated. There can be no
distinction between the several States of the Union in the
character of the jurisdiction, sovereignty and dominion which
they may possess and exercise" over persons and subjects within
.their re.spective limits. The boundaries of the State were
prescribed by Congress and accepted by the State in its original Constitution. They are given in the bill. It is sufficient
for our purpose to observe that they include within their
eastern line all that portion of LaJe Michigan lying east of
the main land of the State'and the middle 'of the lake south
of latitude forty-two degrees and thirty minutes.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

435

Opinion of the Court.

It is the settled law of this country that the ownership of and
dominion and sovereignty over lands covered by tide waters,
within the limits of the several States, belong to the respective
States within which they are found, with the consequent right
to use or dispose of any portion thereof, when that can be
done without substantial impairment of the interest of the
public in the waters, and subject always to the paramount
right of Congress to control their navigation so far as may be
necessary for the regulation of commerce with foreign nations
and among the States. This doctrine has been often announced
by this court, and is not questigned by counsel of any of the
parties. Pollard's Lessee v. -Ragan,3 How. 212; Weber v.
Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57.
The same doctrine is in this country held to be applicable
to lands covered by fresh water in the Great Lakes over. which
is conducted an extended commerce with different States and
foreign nations. These lakes possess all the general characteristics of open seas, except in the freshness of their waters,. and
in the absence of the ebb and flow of the tide. In other
respects they are inland seas, and there is no reason or principle for the assertion of dominion and sovereignty over and
ownership by the State of lands covered by tide waters that
is not equally applicable to its ownership of and dominion and
sovereignty over lands covered by the fresh waters of these
lakes. At one time the existence of tide waters was deemed
essential in determining the admiralty jurisdiction of courts in
England. That doctrine is now repudiated in this country
as wholly inapplicable to our condition. In England the ebb
and flow of the tide constitute the legal test of the navigability
of waters. There no waters are navigable in fact, at least to
any great extent, which are not subject to the tide. There,
as said in the case of The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, 455,
"tide water and navigable water are synonymous terms, and
tide water, with a few small and unimpurtant exceptidns,
meant nothing more than public rivers, as contradistinguished
from private ones;" and writers-on the subject of admiralty
jurisdiction "took the ebb and flow of the tide as the test
because it was a convenient one, and more easily determined

OCTOBER TER-

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

the character of the river. Hence the established doctrine in
England, that the admiralty jurisdiction is confined to the ebb
and flow of the tide. In other words, it is confined to public
navigable waters."
But in this country the case is different. Some of our
rivers are navigable for great distances above the flow -of the
tide; indeed, for hundreds of miles, by the largest vessels
used in commerce. As said in the case cited: "There is certainly nothing in the ebb and flow of the tide that makes the
waters peculiarly suitable for admiralty jurisdiction, nor anything in the absence of a tide that renders it unfit. If it is a
public navigable water, on which commerce is carried on between different States or nations, the reason for the jurisdiction is precisely the same. And if a distinction is made on
that account, it is merely arbitrary, without any foundation in
reason; and, indeed, would seem to be inconsistent with it."
The Great Lakes are not in any appreciable respect affected
by the tide, and yet on their waters, as said above, a large
commerce is carried on, exceeding in many instances the entire commerce of States on the borders of the sea. When the
reason of the limitation of admiralty jurisdiction in England
was found inapplicable to the condition of navigable waters
i.nthis country, the limitation and all its incidents were discarded. So also, by the common law, the doctrine of the
dominion over and ownership by the crown of lands within
the realm under tide waters is not founded upon the existence
of the tide over the lands, but upon the fact that the waters
are navigable, tide waters and navigable waters, as already
said, being used as synonymous terms in England. The
public being interested in the use of such waters, the possession
by private individuals of lands under them could not be permitted except by license of the crown, which could alone
exercise such dominion over the waters as would insure freedom in their use so far as consistent with the public interest.
The doctrine is founded upon the necessity of preserving to
the public the use of navigable waters from private interruption and encroachment, a reason as applicable to navigable
fresh waters as to waters moved by the tide. We hold, there-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

437

Opinion of the Court.

fore, that the same doctrine as to the dominion and sovereignty over and ownership of lands under the navigable
waters of the Great Lakes applies, which obtains at the common law as to the dominion and sovereignty over and ownership of lands under tide waters on the borders of the sea, and
that the lands are held by the same right in the one case as in
the other, and subject to the same trusts and limitations.
Upon that theory we shall examine how far such dominion,
sovereignty and proprietary right have been encroached
upon by the railroad company, and how far that company
had, at the time, the assent of the State to such encroachment, and also the validity of the claim which the company
asserts of a right to make further encroachments thereon by
virtue of a grant from the State in April, 1869.
The city of Chicago is situated upon the southwestern shore
of Lake Nfichigan, and includes,.-with other territory, fractional sections 10 and 15, in township 39 north, range 14 east
of the third principal meridian, bordering on the lake, which
forms their eastern boundary. For a long time after the
organization of the city its harbor was the Chicago River,
a small, narrow stream opening into the lake near the centre
of the east and west line of section 10, and in it the shipping
arriving from other ports of the lake and navigable waters
was moored or anchored, and along it were docks and
wharves. The growth of the city in subsequent years in
population, business and commerce required a larger and
more convenient harbor, and the United States, in 'view of
such expansion and growth, commenced the constructiofi of a
system of breakwaters and other harbor, protections in the
waters of the lake in front of the fractional sections men"
tioned. In the prosecution of this work there was constructed a line of breakwaters or cribs of wood and stone
covering the front of the city between the Chicago River and
Twelfth street, with openings in the piers-or lines of cribs for
the entrance and departure of vessels, thus enclosing a largQ
part of the lake for the uses of shipping and commerce- and
creating an outer harbor for Chicago. It comprises a space
about one mile and one-half in length from north to south, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

is of a width from east to west varying from one thousand
to fout thousand feet. As commerce and shipping expand,
the harbor will be further extended towards the south, and,
as alleged by the amended bill, it is expected that the necessities of commerce Will soon require its enlargement so as to
include a great part of the entire lake front of the city. It is
stated, and not denied, that the authorities of the United
States have in a general way indicated a plan for the improvement and use of the harbor which has been enclosed as
mentioned, by which a portion is devoted as a harbor of
refuge where ships may ride at anchor with security and
within protecting walls, and another portion of such enclosure
nearer the shore of the lake may be devoted to wharves and
piers, alongside of which ships may load and unload and upon
which warehouses may be constructed and other structures
erected for the convenience of lake commerce.
The case proceeds upon the theory and allegation that the
defendant, the Illinois Central Railroad Company, has, without lawful authority, encroached,.and continues to encroach,
-upon the domain of the State, and Its original ownership and
control of the waters of the harbor and of the lands thereunder, upon a claim of rights acquired under a grant from
the State and ordinance of the city to enter the city and
appropriate land and water two hundred feet wide in order
to construct a track for a railway, and to erect thereon warehouses, piers and other structures in front of the city, and
upon a claim of riparian rights acquired by virtue of ownership of lands originally bordering on the lake in front of the
city. It also proceeds against the claim asserted by the railroad company of a grant by the State, in 1869, of its right
and title to the submerged lands, constituting the bed of Lake
Michigan lying east of the tracks and breakwater of the company, for the distance of one mile, and between the south line
of the south pier extended eastwardly and a line extended in
the same direction from the south line of lot twenty-one south
of and near the machine shops and round-house of the company; and of a right thereby to construct at its pleasure, in
the harbor, wharves, piers and other works for its use.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

439

Opinion of the Court.

The State prays a decree establishing and confirming its title
to the bed of Lake Michigan and exclusive right to develop
and imprbye the harbor of Chicago by the construction of
docks, wharves, piers and other improvements, against the
claim of the railroad company, that it has an absolute title
to such submerged lands by the act of 1869, and the right,
subject only to the patamount authority of the United States
in the regulation of commerce, to fill all the bed of the lake
within the limits above stated, for the purpose of its business;
and the right, by the construction and maintenance of wharves,
docks and piers, to improve the shore of the lake for the
promotion generally of commerce and navigation. And the
State, insisting that the company has, without right, erected
and proposes to continue to erect wharves and piers upon its
domain, asks that such alleged unlawful structures may be
ordered to be removed, and the company be enjoined from
erecting further structures of any kind.
And first, as to lands in the harbor of Chicago possessed and
used by the railroad company under the act of Congress of
September 20, 1850, (9 Stat. 466, c. 61,) and the ordinance of
the city of June 14, 1852. By that act Congress granted to
the State of Illinois a right of way, not exceeding one hundred
feet in width, on each side of its length, through the public
lands, for the construction of a railroad from the southern
terminus of the Illinois and Michigan Canal to a point at or
near the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, with a
branch to Chicago and a-dother via the town of Galena to a
point opposite Dubuque in the State of Iowa, with the right
to take the necessary materials for its construction. And, to
aid in the construction of the railroad and branches, by the
same act it granted to the State six alternate sections of land,
designated by even numbers, on each side of the road and
branches, with the usual reservation of any portioi found to
be sold by the United States, or to which the right of preemption had attached at the time the route of the road and
branches was definitely fixed, in which' case provision was
made for the selection of equivalent lands in contiguous sections.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The lands granted were made subject to the disposition of
the legislature of the State; and it was declared that the railroad and its branches should be and remain a public highway
for the use of the government of the LTnited States, free from
toll or other charge upon the transportation of their property
or troops.
The act was formally accepted by the legislature of the
State, February 17, 1851, (Laws of 1851, 192, 193.) A few
(lays before, and on the 10th of that month, the Illinois Central Railroad Company was incorporated. It was invested
generally with the powers, privileges, immunities and franchises of corporations, and specifically with the power of
acquiring by purchase or otherwise, and of holding and conveying real and personal estate which might be needful to
carry into effect fully the purposes of the act.
It was also authorized to survey, locate, construct and
operate a railroad, with one or more tracks or lines of rails,
between the points designated and the branches mentioned.
And it was declared that the company should have a right of
way upon, and might appropriate to its sole use and control,
for the purposes contemplated, land not exceeding two hundred feet in width throughout its entire length; and might
enter upon and take possession of and use any lands, streams
and materials of every kind, for the location of depots and
stopping stages, for the purpose of constructing bridges, dams,
embankments, engine-houses, shops and other buildings necessary for completing, maintaining 'and operating the road.
All such lands, waters, materials and privileges belonging to
the State were granted to the corporation for that purpose;
and it was provided that, when owned by or belonging to any
person, company or corporation, and they could not be obtained by voluntary grant or release, the same might be taken
and paid for by proceedings for condemnation as prescribed by
law.

It was also enacted that nothing in the act should authorize
the corporation to make a location of its road within any city
without the consent of its common council. This consent was
given by an ordinance of the common council of Chicago,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v.. ILLINOIS.

441

Opinion of the Court.

adopted June 14, 1852. By its first section it granted permission to the company to lay down, construct and maintain
within the limits of the city, and along the margin of the lake
within and adjacent to the same, a railroad, with one or more
tracks, and to operate the same with locomotive engines and
cars, under such rules and regulations with reference to speed
of trains, the receipt, safe-keeping and delivery of freight, and
arrangements for the accommodation and conveyance of passengers, not inconsistent with the public safety; as the company might from time to time establish, and to have the right
of way and all powers incident to and necessary therefor in
the manner and upon the following terms and conditions,
namely, that the 'oad should enter the city at or near the
intersection of its then southern boundary with Lake Michigan, and follow the shore on or near the margin of the lake
northerly to the southern bounds of the open space known as
Lake Park, in front of canal section fifteen, and continue
northerly across the open space in front of that section to
such grounds as the company might acquire between the north
line of Randolph street and the Chicago River, in the Fort
Dearborn addition, upon which grounds should be located the
depot of the railroad company within the city, and such other
buildings, slips or apparatus as might be necessary and convenient for its business. But it was understood, that the city
did not undertake to obtain for the- company any right of
way, or other right, privilege or easement, not then in its
power to grant, or to assume any liability or responsibility for
the acts of the company. It also declared that the company
might enter upon and use in perpetuity for its line of road and
other works necessary to protect the same from the lake, a
width of three hundred feet from the southern boundary of
the public ground near Twelfth street, to the northern line of
Randolph street; the inner or west line of the ground to be
not less than four hundred feet east from the west line of
Michigan Avenue, and parallel thereto; and it was authorized
to extend its works and fill out into the lake to a point inAbe
southern pier not less than four hundred feet west from the
then east end of the same, thence parallel with Michigan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Avenue to the north side of Randolph street, extended; but it
was stated that the common council did not grant any right or
privilege beyond the limits above specified, nor beyond the lino
that might be actually occupied by the works of the company.
By the ordinance the company was required, to erect and
maintain on the western or inner line of the ground pointed
out for its main tracks on the lake shore such suitable walls,
fences or other sufficient works as would prevent animals from
straying upon or obstructing its tracks, and secure persons and
property from danger; and to construct such suitable gates at
proper places at the ends of the streets, which were then or
might thereafter be laid out, as required by the common council, to afford safe access to the lake; and provided that, in the
case of the construction of an outside harbor, streets might be
laid out to approach the same in the manner provided by law.
The company was also required to erect and complete within
three years after it should have accepted the ordinance, and
forever thereafter maintain, a continuous wall or structure of
stone masonry, pier-work or other sufficient material, of regu,lar and sightly appearance, and noi to exceed in height the
general level of Michigan Avenue, opposite thereto, from the
north side of Randolph street to the southern bound of Lake
Park, at a distance of not more than three hundred feet east
from and parallel with the western or inner line of the company, and continue the works to the southern boundary of the
city, at such distance outside of the track of the road as might
be expedient; which structure and works should be of sufficient strength and magnitude to protect the entire front of the
city, between the north line of Randolph street and its southern boundary, from further damage or injut'y from the action
of the waters of Lake Michigan; and that that part of the
structure south of Lake Park should be commenced and prosecuted with reasonable despatch after acceptance of the ordinance. It was also enacted that the company should "not in
any manner, nor for any purpose whatever, occupy, use or
intrude upon the open ground known as 'Lake Park,' belonging to the city of Ohicago, lying between Michigan Avenue
and the western or inner line before mentioned, except so far

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

443

Opinion of the Court.

as the common council may consent, for the convenience of
said company, while constructing or repairing the works in
front of said ground." And it was declared that the company
should "erect no buildings between the north line of Randolph
street and the south side of the said Lake Park, nor occupy
nor use the works proposed to be constructed between these
points, except for the passage of or for making up or distributing their trains, nor place upon any part of their works between
said points any obstruction to the view of the lake from the
shore, nor suffer their locomotives, cars or other articles to
remain upon their tracks, but only erect such works as are
proper for the construction of their necessary tracks and protection of the same."
The company was allowed ninety days to accept this ordinance, and it was provided that upon such acceptance a contract
embodying its provisions should be executed and delivered
between the city and the company, and that the rights and
privileges conferred upon the company should depend upon
the performance on its part of the requirements made. The
ordinance was accepted and the required agreement drawn and
executed on the 28th of March, 1853.
Under the authority of this ordinance the railroad company
located its tracks 'within the corporate limits of the city.
Those running northward from Twelfth street were laid upon
piling in the waters of the lake. The shore line of the lake
was, at that time, at Park Row, about four hundred feet from
the west line of Michigan Avenue, and at Randolph street
about one hundred and twelve and a half feet. Since then the
space between the shore line and the tracks of the railroad
company has been filled with earth under the direction of the
city and is now solid ground.
After the tracks were constructed the company erected 'a
breakwater east of its roadway'upon a line parallel with the
west line of Michigan Avenue, and afterwards filled up the space
between the breakwater and its tracks with earth and stone.
We do not deem it material, for the determination of any
questions presented in this case, to describe in detail the extensive works of the railroad company under the permission given

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to locate its road within the city by the ordinance. It is sufficient to say that when this suit was commenced it had reclaimed
from the waters of the lake a tract, two hundred feet in width,
for the whole distance allowed for its entry within the city,
and constructed thereon the tracks needed for its railway, with
all the guards against danger in its approach and crossings as
specified in the ordinance, and erected the designated breakwater beyond its tracks on the east, and the necessary works
for the protection of the shore on the west. Its works in no
respect interfered with any useful freedom in the use of the
waters of the lake for commerce, foreign, interstate or domestic. They were constructed under the authority of the law by
the requirement of the city as a condition of its consent that the
company might locate its road within its limits, and cannot be
regarded as such an encroachment upon the domain of the
State as to require the interposition of the court for their
removal or for any restraint in their use.
The railroad company never acquired by the reclamation
from the waters of the lake of the land upon which its tracks
are laid, or by the construction of the road and works connected therewith, an absolute fee in the tract reclaimed, with
a consequent right to dispose of the same to other parties, or
to use it for any other purpose than the one designated - the
construction and operation of a railroad thereon with one or
more tracks and works in connection with the road or in aid
thereof. The act incorporating the company only granted to
it a right of way over the public lands for its use and control,
for the purpose contemplated, which was to enable it to survey,
locate, and construct and operate a railroad. All lands, waters,
materials and privileges belonging to the State were granted
solely for that purpose. It did not contemplate, much less
authorize, any diversion of the property to any other purpose.
The use of it was restricted to the purpose expressed. Whilst
the grant to it included waters of streams in the line of the
right of way belonging to the State, it was accompanied with
a declaration that it should not be so construed as to authorize
the corporation to interrupt the navigation of the streams. If
the waters of the lake may be deemed to be included in the

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

445

Opinion of the Court.

designation of streams, then their use would be held equally
restricted. The prohibition upon the company to make a location of its road within any city, without the consent of its
common council, necessarily empowered that body to prescribe
the conditions of the entry so far at least as to designate the
place where it should be made, the character of the tracks to
be laid, and the protection and guards that should be constructed to insure their safety. Nor did the railroad company
acquire by the mere construction of its road and other works
any rights as a riparian owner to reclaim still further lands
from the waters of the lake for its use, dr the construction of
piers, docks and wharves in the furtherance of its business.
The extent to which it could reclaim the land under the waters
was limited by the conditions of the ordinance, which was
simply for the construction of a railroad on a tract not to
exceed a specified width, and of works connected therewith.
We shall hereafter consider what rights the company
acquired as a riparian owner from its acquisition of title to
lands on the shore of the lake, but at present we are speaking
only of what rights it lequired from the reclamation of the
tract upon which the railroad and the works in connection with
it are built. The construction of a pier or the extension of
any land into navigable waters for a railroad or other purposes, by one not the owner of lands on the shore, does not give
the builder of such pier or extension, whether an individual
or corporation, any riparian rights. Those rights are incident
to riparian ownership. They exist with such ownership and
pass with the transfer of the land. And the laud must not only
be contiguous to the water, but in contact with it. Proximity
without contact is insufficient. The riparian right attaches to
land on the border of navigable water without any declaration
to that effect from the-former owner, and. its designation in a
conveyance by him. would bb surplusage. (See Gould on
Waters, § 148, and authorities there cited.)
•The riparian proprietor is entitled, among other rights, as
held in Yates v. Xilwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, 504, to access to the
navigable part of the water on the front of which lieshis land,
and for that puf pose to make a landing, wharf or pier for his

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

own" use or for the use of the public, subject to such general
rules and regglations as the legislature may prescribe for the
protection of the rights of the public. In the case cited the
court held that this riparian right was property and valuable;
and though it must be enjoyed in due subjection to the rights
of the public, it could not be arbitrarily or capriciously impaired.

It had been held in the previous case of Dutton v.

Strong, 1 Black, 23, 33, that whenever the water of the shore
was too shoal to be navigable, there was the same necessity
for wharves, piers and landing places as in the bays and arms
of the sea; that where that necessity existed, it was difficult
to see any reason for denying to the adjacent owner the right
to supply it; but that the right must be understood as terminating at the point of navigability, where the necessity for
such erections ordinarily ceased.
In this case it appears that fractional section 10, which was
included within the city limits bordering on the lake front,
was, many years before this suit was brought, divided, under
the authority of the United States, into blocks and lots, and
the lots sold. The proceedings taken and the laws passed on
the subject for the sale of the lots are stated with great
particularity in the opinion of the court below, but for our
purpose it is sufficient to mention that the lots laid out in
fractional section 10 belonging to the United States were sold,
and, either directly or from purchasers, the title to some of
them fronting on the lake north of Randolph street became
vested in the raiiroad company, and the company, finding the
lake in front of those lots shallow, filled it in and upon the
reclaimed land constructed slips, wharves and piers, the last
three piers in 1872, 1873, 1880, and 1881, which it claims to
own and to have the right to use in its business.
Accoi'ding to the law of riparian ownership, which we have
stated, this claim is well founded so far as the piers do not
extend beyond the point of navigability in the waters of the
lake. We are not fully satisfied that such is the case from
the evidence which the company has produced, and the fact
is not conceded. Nor does the court below find that such
navigable point had been established by any public authority

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

447

Opinion of the Court.

or judicial decision, or that it had any foundation other than
the judgment of the railroad company.
The same position may be taken as to the claim of the
company to the pier and docks erected in front of Michigan
Avenue between the lines of Twelfth and Sixteenth streets
extended. The company had previously acquired the title to
certain lots fronting on the lake at that point, and, upon its
claim of riparian rights from that ownership, had erected
the structures in question. Its ownership of them likewise
depends upon the question whether they are extended beyond
or are limited to the navigable point of the waters of the
lake, bf which no satisfactory evidence was offered.
Upon the land reclaimed by tjhe railroad company as riparian
proprietor in front of lots into which section ten was divided,
which it had purchased, its passenger depot was erected north
of Randolph street, and, to facilitate its approach, the common
council, by ordinance adopted September 10, 1855, authorized
it to curve its tracks westwardly of the line fixed by the
ordinance of 1852, sQ as to cross that line at a point not more
than two hundred feet south of Randolph street, in accordance
with a specified plan. This permission was given upon the
condition that the company should lay out upon its own land
west of and alongside its passenger house a street fifty feet
wide, extending from Water street to Randolph street, and fill
the same up its entire length, within two years from the passage of the ordinance. The company's tracks were curved as
permitted, the street referred- to was opened; the required
filling was done, and the street has ever since been used by
the public. It being necessary that the railroad compafiy
should have additional means of approaching and using its
station grounds between Randolph street and the Chicago
River, the city, by another ordinance adopted September 16,
1856, granted it permission to enter and use, in perpetuity, for
its line of railroad and other works necessary to protect the
same from the lake, the space between its then breakwater
and a line drawn from a point thereon seven hundred feet
south of the north line of Randolph street extended, and
running thence on a straight line to the southeast corner of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

its present breakwater, thence to the river; and the space thus
indicated the railroad company occupied and continued to holdpursuant to this ordinance, and we do not perceive any valid
objection to its continued holding of the same for the purposes
decldred-that is, as additional means of approaching and
using its station grounds.
We proceed to consider the claim of the railroad company
to the ownership of submerged lands in the harbor, and the
right to construct such wharves, piers, docks and other works
therein, as it may deem proper for its interest and business.
'The claim is founded upon the third section of the act of the
legislature of the State passed on the 16th of April, 1869, the
material part of which is as follows:
"S.c. 3. The right of the Illinois Central Railroad Company
under the grant from the State in its charter, which said grant
constitutes a part of the consideration for which the said company pays to the State at least seven per cent of its gross earnings, and under and by virtue of its appropriation, occupancy,
use and control, and the riparian ownership incident to such
grant, appropriation, occupancy, use and control, in and to the
lands submerged or otherwise lying east of the said line running parallel with and four hundred feet'east of the west line
of Michigan Avenue, in fractional sections ten ard fifteen,
township and range as aforesaid, is hereby confirmed; and all
the right and title of the State of Illinois in and to the submerged lands constituting the bed of Lake Mlichigan, and lying
east of the tracks and breakwater of the Illinois Central :Railroad Company, for the -distance of one mile, and between the
south line of the south pier extended eastwardly and a line extended eastward from the south line of lot twenty-one, south of
and near to the round-house and machine shops of said company,
in the south division of the said city of Chicago, are hereby
granted in fee to the said Illinois Central Railroad Company,
its successors and assigns: provided, however, that the fee to
said lands shall be held by said company in perpetuity, and that
the said company shall not have power to grant, sell or convey the fee to the same; and that all gross receipts from use,
profits, leases or otherwise of said lands, or the improvements

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

449

Opinion of the Court.

thereon, or that may hereafter be made thereon, shall form a
part of the gross proceeds, receipts and income of the said
Illinois Central Railroad Company, upon which said company
shall forever pay into the State treasury, semi-annually, the
per centum provided for in its charter, in accordance with-the
requirements of said charter: and provided also, that nothing
herein contained shall authorize obstructions to the Chicago
harbor, or impair the public right of navigation; nor shall this
act be construed to exempt the Illinois Central Railroad Company, its lessees or assigns, from any act of the general assembly which may be hereafter passed regulating the rates of
wharfage and dockage to be charged in said harbor."
The act, of which this section is a part, was accepted by a
resolution of the board of directors of the company at its office
in the city of New York, July 6, 1870; but the acceptance was
not communicated to the State until the 18th of November,
1870. A copy of the resolution was on that day forwarded to
the Secretary of State, and filed and recorded by him in the
records of his office. On the 15th of April, 1873, the legislature of Illinois repealed the act. The questions presented
relate to the validity of the section cited of the act and the
effect of the repeal upon its operation.
The section in question has two objects in view: one was to
confirm certain alleged rights of the railroad company under
the grant from the State in its charter and under and "by virtue of its appropriation, occupancy, use and control, and the
riparian ownership incident" thereto, in and to the lands submerged or otherwise lying east of a line parallel with and four
hundred feet east of the west line of Michigan Avenue, in fractional sections ten and fifteen. The other object was to grant
to the railroad company submerged lands in the harbor.
The confirmation made,- whatever the operation claimed for
it in other respects, cannot be invoked so as to extend the
riparian right which the company possessed, from its ownership of lands in sections ten and fifteen on the shore of the
lake. Whether the piers or docks constructed by it, after the
passage of -the act of 1869, extend beyond the point of navigability in the waters of the lake, must be the subject of judicial
VOL. CXLVI-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

inquiry upon the execution of this decree in the court below.
If it be ascertained upon such inquiry and determined that such
piers and docks do not extend beyond, the point of practicable
navigability, the claim of the railroad company to their title
and possession will be confirmed; but if they or either of them
are found on such inquiry to extend beyond the point of such
navigability, then the State will be entitled to a decree that
they, or the one thus extended, be abated and removed to the
extent shown, or for such other disposition of the extension as,
upon the application of the State and the facts established,
may be authorized by law.
As to the grant of the submerged lands, the act declares
that all the right and title of the State in ana to the submerged
lands, constituting the bed of Lake Michigan, and lying east of
the tracks and breakwater of the company for the distance of
one mile, and between the south line of the south pier extended
eastwardly and a line extended eastwardly from the south line
of'lot twenty-one, south of and near to the round-house and
machine shops of the company "are granted in fee to the railroad company, its successors and assigns." The grant is accompanied with a proviso that the fee of the lands shall be held
by the company in perpetuity, and that it shall not have the
power to grant, sell or convey the fee thereof. It also declares
that nothing therein shall authorize obstructions to the harbor
br impair the public right of navigation, or be construed to
exempt the company from any act regulating the rates of
wharfage and dockage to be charged in the harbor.
This clause is treated by the counsel of the company as an
absolute conveyance to it of title to the submerged lands, giving it as full and complete power to use and dispose of the
same, except in the technical transfer of the fee, in any manner
it may choose, as if they were uplands, in no respect covered
or affected by navigable waters, and not as a license to, use the
lands subject to revocation by the State. Treating it as such
a conveyance, its validity must be determined by the consideration whether the legislature was competent to make a grant
of the kind.
The act, if valid and operative to the extent claimed, placed

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

451

Opinion of the Court.

under the control of the*railroad company nearly the whole of
the submerged lands of the harbor, subject only to the limitations that it should not authorize obstructions to the harbor or
impair the public right of navigation, or exclude the legislature
from regulating the rates of wharfage or dockage to be charged.
With these limitations the act put it in the power of the company to delay indefinitely the improvement of the harbor, or
to construct as many docks, piers and wharves and other
works as it might choose, and at such positions in the harbor
as might suit its purposes, and permit any kind of business to
be conducted thereon, and to lease them out on its own terms,
for indefinite periods. The inhibition against the technical
transfer of the fee of any portion of the submerged lands was
of little consequence when it could make a lease for any period
and renew it at its pleasure: And the inhibitions- against
authorizing obstructions to the harbor and impairing the publie right of navigation placed no impediments upon the action
of the railroad company which did not previously exist. A
corporation created for one purpose, the construction and operation of a railroad between designated points, is, by the act,
converted into a corporation to manage and practically control
the harbor of Chicago, not simply for its own purpose as a
railroad corporation, but for its own profit generally.
The circumstances attending the passage of the act through
the legislature were on the hearing the subject of much criticism. As originally introduced, the purpose of the act was to
enable the city of Chicago to enlarge its harbor and to grant
to it theititle and interest of the State to certain lands adjacent to the shore of Lake Michigan on the eastern front of
the city, and place the harbor under its control, giving it all
the necessary powers for its wise management. But during
the passage of the act its purport was changed. Instead of
providing for the cession of the submerged lands to the city,
it provided for a cession of them to the railroad company. It
was urged that the title of the act was not changed to correspond with its changed purpose, and an objection was taken
to its validity on that account. But the majority of the court
were of opinion that the evidence was insufficiernt to show that

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the requirement of the constitution of the State, in its passage,
was not complied with.
The question, therefore, to be considered is whether the legislature was competent to thus deprive the State of its ownership of the submerged lands in the harbor of Chicago, and of
the consequent control of its waters; or, in other words,
whether the railroad corporation can hold the lands and control the waters by the grant, against any future exercise of
power over them by the State.
That the State holds the title to the lands under the navigable waters of Lake Michigan, within its limits, in the same
manner that the State holds title to soils under tide water, by
the common law, we have already shown, and that title necessarily carries with it control over the waters above them
whenever the lands are subjected to use. But it is a title
different in character from that which the State holds in lands
intended for sale. It is different from the title which the
United States hold in the public lands which are open to preemption and sale. It is a title held in trust for the people of
the State that they may .enjoy the navigation of the waters,
carry on commerce over them, and have liberty of fishing
therein freed from the obstruction or interference of private
parties. The interest of the people in the navigation of the
waters and in commerce over them may be improved in many
instances by the erection of wharves, docks and piers therein,
for which purpose the State may grant parcels of the submerged lands.; and, so long as their disposition is made for
such purpose, no valid objections can be made to the grants.
It is grants of parcels of lands under navigable waters, that
may afford foundation for wharves, piers, docks and other
structures in aid of commerce, and grants of parcels which,
being occupied, do not substantially impair the public interest
in the lands and waters remaining, that are chiefly considered
and sustained in the adjudged cases as a valid exercise of legislative power consistently with the trust to the public upon
which such lands are held by the State. But that is a very
different doctrine from the one which would sanction the-abdication of the general control of the State over lands under th§

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

453

Opinion of the Court.

navigable waters of an entire harbor or bay, or of a sea or
lake. Such abdication is not consistent with the exercise of
that trust which requires the government of the State to preserve such waters for the use of the public. The trust devolving upon the State for the public, and which can only be
discharged by the, management and control of property in
which the public has an interest, cannot be relinquished by a
transfer of the property. The control of the State for the
purposes of the trust can never be lost, except as to such parcels as are used in promoting the interests of the public therein,
or can be disposed of without any substantial impairment of
the public interest in the lands and .waters remaining. It is
only by observing the distinction between a grant of such parcels for the improvement of the public interest, or which when
occupied do not substantially impair the public interest in the
lands and waters -remaining, and a grant-of the whole property
in which the public is interested, that the language of the
adjudged cases can be reconciled. General lariguage sometimes found in opinions of the courts, expressive of absolute
ownership and control by the State of lands under navigable waters, irrespective of any trust as to their use and disposition, must be read and construed with reference to the
special' facts of the particular cases. A grant of all the lands
under the navigable watefs of a State has never been adjudged
to be within the legislative power; and any attempted grant
of the kind would be held, if not absolutely void on its face,
as subject to revocation. The State can no more abdicate its
trust over property in which the whole people are interested,
like navigable waters and soils under them, so as to leave them
entirely under the use and control of private parties, .except in
the instance of parcels mentioned for the improvement of the
navigation and use of the waters, or when parcels can be disposed of without impairment of the public interest in what
remains, than it can abdicate its police powers in the administration of government and the preservation of the peace., In
the administration of government the use of such powers may
for a limited period be delegated to a municipality or other
body, but there always remains with the State the right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

revoke those powers and exercise them in a more direct manner, and one more conformable to its wishes. So with trusts
connected with public property, or property of a special character, like lands under navigable waters, they cannot be placed
entirely beyond the direction and control of the State.
The harbor of Chicago is of immense value to the people of
the State of Illinois in the facilities it affords to its vast and
constantly increasing commerce; and the idea that its legislature can deprive the State of control over its bed and waters
and place the same in the hands of a private corporation created
for a different purpose, one limited to transportation of passengers and freight between distant points and the city, is a proposition that cannot be defended,
The area of the submerged lands proposed to be ceded by
the act in question to the railroad company embraces something more than a thousand acres, being, as stated by counsel,
more than three times the area of the outer harbor, and not
only including all of that harbbr but embracing adjoining submnerged lands which will, in all probability, be hereafter included in the harbor. It is as large as that embraced by all
the merchandise docks along the.Thames at London; is much
larger than that included in the famous docks and .basins at
Liverpool; is twice that of the port of Marseilles, and nearly
if not quite equal to the pier area along the water front of the
city of New York. And the arrivals and clearings of vessels
at the port exceed in number those of New York, and are
equal to those of -New York and Boston combined. Chicago
has nearly twenty-five per cent of the lake carrying trade as
compared with the arrivals and clearings of all the leading
porLs of our great inland seas. In the year ending June 30,
1886, the joint arrivals and clearances of vessels at that port
amounted to twenty-two thousand and ninety-six, with a tonnage of over seven millions; and in 1890 the tonnage of the
vessels reached nearly nino millions. As stated by counsel,
since the passage of the Lake Front Act, in 1869, the population
of the city has increased nprly a million souls, and the increase of commerce has keot pace with it. It is hardly conceivable that the legislatia can divest the State of the control

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

455

Opinion of the Court.

and management of this harbor and vest it absolutely in a
private corporation. Surely an act of the legislature transferring the title to its submerged lands and the power claimed by
the railroad company, to a foreign State or nation would be
repudiated, without hesitation, as a gross perversion of the
trust over the property under which it'is held. So would a
similar transfer to a corporation of another State. It would
not be listened to that the control and management of the
harbor of that great city - a subject of concern to the whole
people of the State- should thus be placed elsewhere than in
the State itself. All the objections which can be urged to such
attempted transfer may be urged to a transfer to a private corporation like the railroad company in this case.
Any grant of the kind is necessarily revocable, and the exercise of the trust by which the-property was held by the State
can be resumed at any time. - Undoubtedly there may be expenses incurred in improvements made under sdich a grant
which the State ought to pay; but, be that as it may, the
power to resume the trust whenever the State judges best is,
we think, incontrovertible. The position advanced by the railroad company in support of its claim to the ownership of the
submerged lands and the right to the erection of wharves,
piers and docks at its pleasure, orfor its business in the harbor of Chicago, would place every harbor in the country at
the mercy of a majority of the legislature of the State in which
the harbor is situated.
We cannot, it ' is" true, cite any authority where a grant of
this kind has been held invalid, for we believe that no instance
exists where the harbor of a great city and its commerce have
been allowed to pass. into the control of any private corporation. But the decisions are numerous which declare that such
property is held by the State, by virtue of its sovereignty, in
trust for the public. The ownership of the navigable waters
of the harbor and of the lands under them is a subject of public concern to the whole people of the State. The trust with
which they are held, therefore, is governmental and cannot be
alienated, except in those instances mentioned of parcels used
in the improvement of the interest thus held, or when parcels

OCTOBER TERMIVt, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

can be disposed of without detriment to the public interest in
the lands and waters remaining.
This follows necessarily from the public character of the
property, being held by the whole people for purposes in
which the whole people are interested. As said by Chief
Justice Taney, in 21fartin v. Ifaddell, 16 Pet. 367, 410:
"When the :Revolution took place the people of each State
became themselves sovereign, and in that character hold the
absolute right to all their navigable waters, and the soils under
them, for their own common use, subject only to the rights
since surrendered by the Constitution to the general government." In Arnold v. .fundy, I Halsted, 1, which is cited by
this court in
irtin v. Yfaddell, 16 Pet. 418, and spoken of
by Chief Justice Taney as entitled to great weight, and in
which the decision was made "with great deliberation and research," the Supreme Court of New Jersey comments upon
the rights of the State in the bed of navigable waters, and,
after observing that the power exercised by the State over the
lands and waters is nothing more than what is called the jus
'regiwm, the right of regulating, improving and securing them
for the benefit of every individual citizen, adds: "The sovereign power, itself, therefore, cannot consistently with the
principles of the law of nature and the constitution of a wellordered society, make a direct and absolute grant of the
waters of the State, divesting all the citizens of their common
right. It would be a grievance which never could be long
borne by a free people." Necessarily must the control of the
waters of a State over all lands under them pass when the
lands are conveyed in fee to private parties, and are by them
subjected to use.
In the case of Stockton v. Baltimore and 1LVew York PRailroad Company, 32 Fed. Rep. 9, 19, 20, which involved a consideration by Mr. Justice Bradley, late of this court, of the
nature of the oxenership by the State of lands under the navigable waters of the United States, he said:
"It is insisted that the property of the State in lands under
its navigable waters is private property, and comes strictly.
within the constitutional provision. It is significakiitly asked,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

457

Opinion of the Court.

can the .United States take the state house at Trenton, and
the surrounding grounds belonging to the State, and appropriate them to the purposes of a railroad depot, or to any other
use of the general government, without compensation? We
do not apprehend that the decision of the present case involves

or requires a serious answer to this question. The cases are
clearly not parallel. The character of the title or ownership
by which the State holds the state house is quite different
from that by which it holds the land under the navigable

waters in and around its territory.

The information rightly

states that, prior to the Revolution, the shore and lands under

water of the navigable streams and waters of the province of
New Jersey belonged to the King of Great Britain as part
of the jura 'regalia of the crown, and devolved to the State
by right of conquest. The information does not state, however, what is equally true, that, after the conquest, the said
lands were held by the State, as they were by the king, in
t)-ust for the public uses of navigation and fishery, and the
erection thereon of wharves, piers, light-houses, beacons and
other'facilities of navigation and commerce. Being subject to
this trust, they were jublicijuris; in other words, they were
held for the use of the people at large. It is true that to
utilize the fisheries, especially those of shell fish, it was necessary to parcel them out to particular operators, and employ
the rent or consideration for the benefit of the whole people;
but this did not alter the character o! the title. The land
remained subject to all other public uses as before, especially
to those of navigation and commerce, which are always paramount to those of public fisheries. It is also true that portions
of the submerged shoals and flats, which really interfered
with navigation, and could better subserve the purposes of
commerce by being filled up and reclaimed, were disposed of
to individuals for that purpose. But neither did these dispositions of useless parts affect the character of the title to the
remainder."
Many other cases .might be cited where it has been decided
that the bed or soil of navigable waters is held by the people
of the State in their character as sovereign in trust for public

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

uses for which they are adapted.
-artin, v. Waddell, 16 Pet.
367, 410; ]Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 220; .-fcCready v. Virginia,94 U. S. 391, 394.
'In People v. New York and Staten Island Ferry Co., 68
N. Y. 71, 76, the Court of Appeals of New York said:
"The title to lands under tide waters, within the realm of
England, were, by the common law, deemed to be vested in
the king as a public trust, to subserve and protect the public
right to use them as common highways for commerce, trade
and intercourse. The king, by virtue of his proprietary interest could grant the soil so that it should become private
property, but his grant was subject to the paramount right of
public use of .navigable waters, which he could neither destroy
nor abridge. In every such grant there was an implied reservation of the public right, and so far as it assumed to interfere
with it, or to confer a right to impede or obstruct navigation, or to make an exclusive appropriation of the use of
navigable waters, the grant was void. In his treatise Do J ure
Maris (p. 22) Lord Hale says: ' The jus privatum that is acquired by the subject, either by patent or prescription, must
not prejudice the jus publicum, wherewith public rivers and
the arms of the sea are affected to public use;' and Mr. Tustice Best, in Blundell v. Catterall,5 B. &'A. 268, in speaking
of the subject, says: ' The soil can only be transferred subject to
the public trust, and general usage shows that the public right
has been excepted out of the grant of the soil.'
"The principle of the common law to which we have adverted is founded upon the most obvious principles of public
policy. The sea and navigable rivers are natural highways,
and any obstruction to the common right, or exclusive appropriation of their use, is injurious to commerce, and if permitted
at the will of the sovereign, would be very likely to end in
materially crippling, if not destroying it. The laws of most
nations have sedulously guarded the public use of navigable
waters within their limits against infringement, subjecting it
only to such regulation by the State, in the interest of the
public, as is deemed consistent with the preservation of the
public right."

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

459

Opinion of the Court.

While the opinion of the New York court contains some
expressions which may require explanation when detached
from the particular facts of that case, the general observations
we cite are just and pertinent.
The soil under navigable waters being held by the people of
the State in tr*ust for the common ise and as a portion of
their inherent sovereignty, any act of legislation concerning
their use affects the public welfare. It is, theref6re, appropriately within the exercise of the p~lice power of the State.
In Newton v. Commissioners, 100 U. S. 548, it appeared that

by an act passed by the legislature of Ohio, in 1846, it was
provided that upon the fulfihnent of certain conditions by the
proprietors or citizens of the town of Canfield, the county
seat should be permanently established in that town. Those
conditions having been complied with, the county seat was
established therein accordingly. In 1874 the legislature passed
an act for the removal of the county seat to another town.
Certain citizens of Canfield thereupon filed their bill, setting
forth the act of 1846, and claiming that the proceedings constituted an executed contract, and prayed for an injunction
against the contemplated removal. But the court'refused the
injunction, holding that there could be no contract and no
irrepealable law upon governmental subjects, observing that
legislati've acts concerning public interests are necessarily public laws; that every ucceeding legislature possesses the same
jurisdiction and power as its pradecessor; that th6 latter have
the same power of repeal and modification which the former
had of enactment, neither more nor less; that all occupy in
this respect a footing oif perfect equality; that this is necessarily so in the nature of things; that it is vital to the public
welfare that each one should be able, at all times, to do whatever the varying circumstances and present exigencies attending the subject may require ; and that a different result would
be fraught with evil.
As counsel observe, if this is true doctrine as to the location
of a county seat it is apparent that it must apply with greater
force to the control of the soils and beds of navigable waters
in the great pNblic harbors held by the people in trust for

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

their common use and of common right as an incident to their
sovereignty. The legislature could not give away nor sell the
discretion of its successors in respect to matters, the government of which, from the very nature of things, must vary with
varying circumstances. The legislation which may be needed
one day for the harbor ma , be different from the legislation
that may be required at another day. Every legislature must,
at the time of its existence, exercise the power of the State in
the execution of the trust devolved upon it. We hold, therefore,
that any attempted cession of the ownership and control of
the State in and over the submerged lands in Lake Mlichigan,
by the act of April 16, 1869, was inoperative to affect, modify
or in any respect to control the sovereignty and dominion of
the State over the lands, or its ownership thereof, and that
any such attempted operation of the act was annulled by the
repealing act of April 15, 1873, which to that extent was valid
and effective. There can be no irrepealable contract in a conveyance of property by a grantor in disregard of a, public
trust, under which he was bound to hold and manage it.
The legislation of the State in the Lake Front Act, purporting
to grant the fee of the submerged lands mentioned to the railroad company, was considered by the court below, in view of
the preceding measures taken for the improvement of the
harbor, and because further improvement in the same direction
was contemplated, as a mere license to the company to prosecute such further improvement as an agency of the State, and
that to this end the State had placed certain of its resources
at the command of the company with such an enlargement
of its powers and privileges as enabled it to accomplish the
objects in view. And the court below, after observing that
the act might be assumed as investing the railroad company
with the power, not given in its original charter, of erecting
and-maintaining wharves, docks and piers in the interest of
commerce, and beyond the necessities or legitimate purposes of
its own business as a railroad corporation, added that it wa$
unable to perceive why it was not competent for the State, by
subsequent legislation, to repeal. the act and withdraw the
additional powers of the company, thereby restricting it to the

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

461

Opinion of the Court.

business for which it was incorporated, and to resume control
of the resources and property which it had placed at the command of the company for the improvement of the harbor.
The court, treating the act as a license to the company, also
observed that it was deemed best, when that act was passed,
for the public interest that the improvement of the harbor
should be effected by the instrumentality of a railroad corporation interested, to some extent, in the accomplishment of
that result, and said: "But if the State subsequently determined, upon consideration of public policy, that this great
work should not be entrusted to any railroad corporation, and
that a corporation should. not be the owner of even a qualified
fee in the soil under the navigable waters of the harbor, no
provision of the national or State constitution forbade the
general assembly of Illinois from giving effect, by legislation,'
to this change of- policy. It cannot be claimed that the repeal
of the act of 1869 took from the company a single right conferred upon it by its original charter. That act only granted
additional powers and privileges for which the railroad coin-'
pany paid nothing, although, in considerationof the grant of
such additional powers and privileges, it agreed to pay a certain per centum of the gross proceeds, receipts, and incomes
which it night derive either from the lands granted by the
act, or from any improvements erected thereon. But it ivas
not absolutely bound, by anything contained in the act, to
make use of the: submerged' lands for the purposes contemplated by the legislature - certainly not within any given
time -and could not have been called upon to pay such per
centum until after the lands were used and improved, and
income derived therefrom. The repeal of the act relieved the
corporation from any obligation to pay the per centum teferred
to, because it had the effect to take from it the property from
which alone the contemplated income could be derived. So
that the effect of the" act of 1873 was only to remit the railroad
company to the exercise of the powers, privileges and franchises granted in its original charter, and withdraw from-it
the additional powers given by the act of 1869 for the accomplishment of certain public objects." If the act in question

OCTOBER

ERNTI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

be treated as a mere license to the company to make the improvement in the harbor contemplated as an agency of the
State, then we think the right to cancel the agency and revoke
its power is unquestionable.
It remains to consider the claim of the city of Chicago to
portions of the east water front and how such claim, and the
rights attached to it, are interfered with by the railroad
company.
The claim of the city is to the ownership in fee of the
streets, alleys, ways, commons and other public grounds on
the east front of the city bordering on the lake, as exhibited
on the maps. showing the subdivision of fractional sections ten
and fifteen, prepared under the supervision and direction of
United States officers in the one case and by the canal coinmissioners in the other. and duly recorded, and the riparian
rights itached to such ownership. By a statute of Illinois
the makng, acknowle'dging and recording of the plats operated to.vest the title to the streets, alleys, ways and commons,
and other public grounds designated on such plats, in the city,
in trust for the public uses to which they were applicable.
Canal Trustees v. Havens, 11 Illinois, 556; /Clieago
v. Pumsey, STIllinois, 351.1

Such property, besides other parcels, included the whole of
that portion of fractional section fifteen which constitutes
Michigan Avenue, and that part of the fractional section lying
east of the west line of -ichigau Avenue, and that portion of
fractional section ten designated on one of the plats as "public
ground," which was always to remain open and free from any
buildings.
The estate, real and personal, held by the trustees of the
town of Chicago was vested in the city of Chicago by the act
of March 4, 1837. It followed that when the Lake Front Act
of 1869 was passed the fee was in the city, subject to the
public uses designated, of all the portions of section ten and
fifteen, particularly described in the decree below. And we
agree with the-court below that the fee of the made or
reclaimed ground between Randolph street and Park Row,
embracing the ground upon which rest the tracks and the

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

463

Opinion of the Court.

breakwater of the railroad company south of Randolph street,
was in the city. The fact that the land which the city had
a right to fill in and appropriate by .virtue of its ownership of
the grounds in front of the lake had been filled in by the
railroad company in the construction of the tracks for its
railroad and for the breakwater on the shore west of it, did
not deprive the city of its riparian rights. The exercise of
those rights was only subject to the condition of the agreement with the city, under which the tracks and breakwater
were constructed by the railroad company, and that was for
a perpetual right of way over the .ground for its tracks of
railway, and, necessarily, the continuance of the breakwater
as a protection of its works and the shore from the violence of
the lake. With this reservation of the right of the railroad
company to its use of the tracts on ground reclaimed by it
and the continuance of the breakwater, the city possesses the
same right of riparian ownership, and is at full liberty to
exercise it, which it ever did.
We also agree with the court below that the city of Chicago,
as riparian owner of the grounds on its east or lake front of
the city, between the north line of Randolph street and the
north line of block twenty-three, each of the lines being produced to Lake Michigan, and in virtue of authority conferred
by its charter, has the power to construct and keep in repair
on the lake front, east of said premises; within the lines mentioned, public landing places, wharves, docks and levees, subject, however, in the execution of that power, to the authority
of the State to prescribe the lines beyond which piers, docks,
wharves and other structures, other than those erected by the
general government, may not be extended into the navigable
waters of the harbor, and 'to such supervision and control as
the United States may rightfully exercise.
It follows from the views expressed' and it is so declared and
adjudged, that the State of Illinois is the owner in fee of the
submerged lands constituting the bed of Lake Michigan, which
the third section of the act of April 16, 1869, purported to
grant to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and that thd
act of April 15, 1873, repealing the same is valid and effective

614'

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
DisSenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

for the purpose of restoring to the State the same control,
dominion and ownership of said lands that it had prior to the
passage of the act of April 16, 1869.
But the decree- below, as it respects the pier commenced in
1872, and the piers completed in 1880 and 1881, marked
1, 2, and 3, nhar Chicago River, and the pier and docks between
and in front of Twelfth and Sixteenth streets, is modified so
as to direct the court below to order such investigation to be
made as may enable it to determine whether those piers
erected by the company, by virtue of its riparian proprietorship of lots formerly constituting part of section ten, extend
into the lake beyond the point of practical navigability, having reference to the manner in which commerce in vessels is
conducted on the lake; and, if it be determined upon such investigation that said piers, or any of them, do not extend
beyond such point, then that the title and possession of the railroad company to such piers shall be affirmed by the court.;
but if it be ascertained and determined that such piers, or any
of them, do extend beyond such navigable point, then the "said
court shall dir~ct the said pier or piers, to the excess ascertained, to be abated and removed, or that other proceedings
relating 'thereto be taken on the application of the State as
may be authorized by law; and also to order that similar proceedings be taken to ascertain and determine whether or not
the pier and dock, constructed by the railroad company in
front of the shore between Twelfth and Sixteenth streets
extend beyond the point of navigability, and to affirm the
title and possession of ihe company if they do not extend beyond such point, and, if they do extend beyond such point, to
order the abatement and removal of the excess, or that other
proceedings' relating thereto be taken on application of the
State as may be authorized by law
Except as modifed in the particularsmentionedi the decree
in each of/the three cases on appeal must be affirmed, with
costs against the railroadcompany; and it is so ordered.
YR. JusTICE SHIRAs, with whom concurred MR. JUSTIC
G- n- afdd-MR. JUsTICE BnowN, dissenting.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

465

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

That the ownership of a State in the lands underlying its
navigable waters is as complete, and its power to make them
the subject of conveyance and grant is as full, as such ownership and power to grant in the case of the other public lands
of the State, I have supposed to be well settled.
Thus it was said in Weber v. Harbor Cmnmissioners, 18
'Wall. 57, 65, that "upon the admission of California into the
Union upon equal footing with the original States, absolute
property in, and dominion and sovereignty over, all soils under
the tide waters within her limits passed to the State, with the
consequent right to dispose o!f the title to any part of said soils'
in such manner as she might deem proper, subject only to the
paramount right of navigation over the waters, so far as such
navigation might be required by the necessities of commerce
with foreign nations or among the several States, the regulation of which was vested in the general government."
In Hoboken v. PennsylvaniaRailroad,124 U. S. 656, 657 a case in many respects like the present - it was said: "Lands
below high-water mark on navigable waters are the absolute
property of the State, subject only to the pofver conferred upon
Congress to regulate foreign commerce and commerce between
the States, and they may be grantedby the State, either to the
riparian proprietors or to a stranger, as the State may see fit,"
and, accordingly, it was held, "that the grant by the State
of New Jersey to the United Companies by the act of March
31, 1869, was ijntended to secure, and does secure, to the
respective grantees the whole beneficial interest in their
respective properties, for their exclusive use for the purposes
expressed in the grants."
In Stevens v. Paterson & Kewark Railroad, 5 Vikoom, (34
N. J. Law,) 532, it was declared by the Court of Errors and
Appeals of New Jersey that it was competent for the. State to
grant to a stranger lands constituting the shore of a navigable
river under tide water below the tide-water mark, to be occupied and used with structures and improvements.
Langdon v. New York City, 93 N. Y. 129, 155, was a case
in which it was said by the Court of Appeals of New York:
"From the earliest times in England the law has vested the
VOL. CXLVI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

title to, and the control over, the navigable waters therein, in.
the crown and parliament.- A distinction was taken between
the mere ownership of the soil under water and the control
over it for public purposes. The ownership of the soil, analogous to the ownership of dry land, was regarded as j .s r'i",atum, and ivas vested in the crown. But the right to uso
and control both the land and water was deemed a jus 1)pulicum, and was vested in parliament. The crown could convey the soil under vater so as to give private rights therein,
but the dominion and control over the waters, in the interest
of commerce and navigation, for the benefit of all the slbjects
of the.kingdom, could be exercised only by Parliament.
In this country, the State has succeeded to all the rights of
both crown and parliament in the navigable waters and the
soil under them, and here the jusprivatum and the jus ublicumn, are both vested in the State."
These citations might be indefinitely multiplied from authorities both Federal and Stat6.
The State of Illinois, by her information or bill of complaint
in this case, alleges that "the claims of the defendants fre a
great and irreparable injury to the State of Illinois as a P/,oprietor &nd owner of the bed of the lake, throwing doubts
and clouds upon its title thereto, and preventing an advantageous sale or other disposition thereof; " and in the prayer
for relief the State asks that "its title may be established and
confirmed, that the claims made by the railroad company may
be declared to be unfounded, and that the State of Illinois
may be declared to have the sole and exclusive right to develop
the harbor of -Chicago by the construcion of docks, wharves,
etc., and to'dispose of such rights at its pleasure."
Indeed, the logic of the State's case, as well as her pleadings,
attributes to the State eniire power to hold and dispose of, by
grant or lease, the lands in question; and her case is put upon
the alleged invalidity of the title of the railroad company,
arising out of the asserted unconstitutionality of the act of
1869, which act made the grant, by reason of certain irregularities in its passage and title, or, that ground failing, upon
the right of the State to arbitrarily revoke the grant, as a

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

467

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

mere license, and which right she claims to have duly exercised
by the passage of the act of 1873.
The opinion of the majority, if I rightly apprehend it, likewise concedes that a State does possess the power to grant
the rights of property and possession in such lands to private
parties, but. the power is stated to be, in some way restricted
to "small parcels, or where such parcels can be disposed of
without detriment to the public interests in the lands and
waters remaining."
But it is difficult to see how the validity
of the exercise of the power, if the power exists, can depend
upon the size of the parcel granted, or how, if it be possible
to imagine that the power is subject to such a limitation, the
present case would be affected, as the grant in question,
though doubtless a large and valuable one, is, relatively to the
remaining soil and waters, if not insignificant, yet certainly,
in view of the purposes to be effected, not unreasonable. It
is matter of common knowledge that a great railroad system,
like that of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, requires
an extensive and constantly increasing territory for its terminal facilities.
It would seem to be plain that, if the State of Illinois has
the power, by her legislature, to grant private rights and
interests in parcels of soil under her navigable waters, the
extent of such a grant and its effect upon the public interests
in the lands and waters remaining are matters of legislative
discretion.
Assuming, then, that the State of Illinois possesses the
power to confer by grant, upon the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, private rights and property in the lands of the
State underlying the waters of the lake, we come to inquire
whether she has exercised that power by a valid enactment,
and if so, whether the grant so made has been legally revoked.
It was contended, on behalf of the State, that the act of 1869,
purporting to confer upon the railroad company certain rights
in the lands in question, did not really so operate, because the
record of proceedings in the senate does not show that the bill
was read three times during its passage, and because the title
of the bill does not sutffciently- express the purpose of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

bill-both of which are constitutional requisites to valid legislation.
It is unnecessary to discuss these objections in this opinion,
because the court below held them untenable, and because the
opinion of the majority in this court adopts the reasoning and
conclusion of the court below in this regard.
It was further contended, on behalf of the State, that, even
if the act of 1869 were a valid exercise of legislative power,
yet the grant thereby made did not vest in the railroad company rights and franchises in the nature of private property,
but merely conferred upon the company certain powers for
public purposes, which were taken and held by the company
as an agency of the State, and which accordingly could be
recalled by the State whenever, in her wisdom, she deemed it
for the public interest to do so, without thereby infringing a
contract existing between her and the railroad company.
This is a question that must be decided by the terms of the
grant, read in the light of the nature of the power exercised,
of the character of the railroad company as a corporation
created to ca'ry out public purposes, and of the facts and
circumstances disclosed by the record.
It must be conceded, in Zimine, that, in construing this
grant, the State is entitled to the benefit of certain wellsettled canons of construction that pertain to grants by the
State to private persons or corporations, as, for instance, that
if there is any ambiguity or uncertainty in the act that interpretation must be put upon it which is most favorable to the
State; that the words of the grant, being attributable to the
party procuring the legislation, are to receive a strict construction as against the grantee; and that, as the State acts
for the public good, we should expect to find the grant consistent with good morals and the general welfare of the State
at large and of the particular community to be affected.
These are large concessions, and, of course, in order to defeat the grant, they ought not to be pushed beyond the bounds
of reason, so as to result in a strained and improbable construction. Reasonable effect must be given to the language employed, and the manifest intent of the enactment must prevail.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

469

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

By an act of Congress, approved September 20, 1850, 9
Stat. 466, c. 61, the right of way not exceeding 200 feet in
width through the public lands was granted to the State of
Illinois, for the construction of a railroad from the southern
terminus of the Illinois and Michigan Canal in that State (at
La Salle) to Cairo, at the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, with a branch from that line to Chicago, and
another, via the city of Galena, to Dubuque, in the State of
Iowa. A grant of public lands was.also made to the State to
aid in the construction of the railroad and branches, which,
by the terms of the act, were to "be and remain a public highway for the use of the government of the United States, free
from toll or other charge upon the transportation of any property or troops of the United States." It was also provided
that the United States mail should at all times be transported
on the said railroad under the direction of the Post Office
Department at such price as the Congress might by law
direct.
This act of Congress was formally accepted by the legislature of the Stake, February 17, 1851. Laws of Ill., 1851, 192,
193. Seven days before the acceptance- February 10, 1851
the Illinois Central iRailroad Company was incorporated for
the purpose of constructing, maintaining and operating t6xe
railroad and branches contemplated in the act of Congress.
'By the second section of its charter, the company was authorized and empowered "to survey, locate, construct, complete,
alter, maintain and operate a railroad with one or more tracks
or lines of rails, from the southern terminus of the Illinois
and Michigan Canal to a point at the city of Cairo, with a
branch of the same to the city of Chicago on Lake Michigan,;
and also a branch via the city of Galena to a point on the Mississippi River opposite the town of Dubuque in the State of
Iowa."
It was provided in the third section that "the said corporation shall have the right of way upon, and may appropriate to
its sole use and control for the purposes contemplated herein,
land not exceeding two hundred feet in width through its entire
length; may enter upon and take possession of and use all and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

singular any lands, streams and materials of every kind, for the
location of depots and stopping stages, for the purpose of constructing bridges, dams, embankments, excavations, station
gr6unds, spoil banks, turnouts, engine houses, shops and other
buildings necdssary f6r the construction, completing, altering,
maintaining, preserving and complete operation of said road.
All such lands, waters, materials and privileges belonging to
the State are hereby granted to said corporttion for said purposes; but when owned or belonging to any person, company
or corporation, and cannot be obtained by voluntary grant or
release, the same may be taken and paid for, if any damages
are awarded, in the manner provided in 'An act to provide for a
general system of railroad incorporations,' approved November
5, 1 49, and the final decision or award shall vest in the corpor'ation hereby created all the rights, franchises and immunitlbs in said act contemplated and provided."
The eighth section had the following provision : "Nothing
in this act contained shall authorize said corporation to make
a location of their track within any city without the consent
of the common council of said city."
By the fifteenth section, the right of way and all the lands
granted to the State by the act of Congress before mentioned,
and also the right of way over and through lands owned by
the State, were ceded and granted to the corporation for the
"purpose of surveying, locating, constructing, completing,
altering, maintaining and operating said road and branches."
There was a requirement in this section (clause 3) that the railroad should be built into the city of Chicago.
By the eighteenth section, the company was required, in
consideration of the grants, privileges and franchises conferred,
to pay into the treasury of the State, on the first Monday of
December and June of each year, five per centum of the gross
receipts of the road and branches for the six months then next
preceding.
The twenty-second section provided for the assessment of an
annual tax for state purposes upon all the property and assets
'of the corporation; and if this tax and the five per cent charge
upon the gross receipts should not amount to seven per cent

ILLINOIS CENTRAL. RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

471

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

of the total proceeds, receipts or income of the company, it
was required to pay the difference into the State treasury, "so
as to make the whole amount paid equal at least to seven per
cent of the gross receipts of said corporation." Exemption
was granted in that sectjon from "all taxation of every kind,
except as herein provided for."
The act of November 5, 1849, referred to in the third section
of the charter, provided a mode for condemning land required
for railroad uses, and contained an express provision that upon
the entry of judgment the corporation "shall become seized in
fee of all the lands and real estate described during the-continuance of the corporation." 2 Laws of Illinois, 1849, 27.
The consent of the common council to the location of the
railroad within the city of Chicago was given by an ordinance
passed June 11, 1852.
On the 16th of April, 1869, an act was passed by the legislature of Illinois, entitled "An act in relation to a portion of
the submerged lands and Lake Park grounds lying on and
adjacent to the shore of Lake Michigan, on the eastern frontage of the city of Chicago." The'third section of this act provided as follows:
"SEc. 3. The right of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, under the grant from the State in its charter, which said
grant constitutes a part of the consideration for which the said
company pays to the State at least seven per cent of its gross
earnings, and under and by virtue of its appropriation, occupancy, use and control, and the riparian owiership incident to
such grant, appropriation, occupancy, use and control, in and
to the lands submerged or otherwise lying east of the said line
running parallel with and four hundred feet east -of the west
line of Michigan Avenle, in fractional sections ten (10) and
fifteen (15), township and range as aforesaid, is hereby confirmed; and all the right and title of the State of Illinois, in
and to the submerged lands constituting the bed of Lake
Michigan, and lying east of the tracks and breakwater of the
Illinois Central :Railroad Company for the distance of one
mile, and between the south line of the south pier extended
eastwardly, and a line extended eastward from the south line

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

of lot twenty-one, south of and near to the round-house and
machine shops of said company, in the south division of the
said city of Chicago, are hereby granted, in fee, to the said
Illinois Central Railroad Company, its successor and assigns:
P9'ovided, however, That the fee to said lands shall be held by
said company in perpetuity, and that the said company shall
not have power to grant, sell or convey the fee to the same,
and that all gross receipts from use, profits, leases or otherwise of said lands or the improvements thereon, or that may
hereafter be made thereon, shall form a part of the gross proceeds, receipts and income of the said Illinois Central Railroad Company, upon which said company shall forever pay
into the State treasury, semi-annually, the per centum provided for in its charter, in accordance with the requirements
of said charter: And provided, also, That nothing herein contained shall authorize obstructions to the Chicago harbor, or
impair the public right of navigation, nor shall this act be
construed to exempt the Illinois Central Railroad Company,
its lessees or assigns, from any act of the general assembly,
which may be hereafter passed, regulating the rates of wharfage and dockage to be charged in said harbor: And provided
fuwrther, That any of the lands hereby granted to 'the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, and the improvements now or
which may hereafter be on the same, which shall hereafter be
leased by said Illinios Central Railroad Company to any person or corporation, or which may hereafter be occupied by
any person or corporation other than said Illinois Central
Railroad Company, shall not, during the continuance of such
leasehold estate or of such occupancy, be exempt from municipal or other taxation." Ill. Laws 1869, 245, 246, 247.
By this act, the right of the railroad company to all the
lands it had appropriated and occupied, lying east'of a line
drawn parallel to, and four hundred feet east of, the west line
of Michi(gan Avenue, in fractional sections ten and fifteen, was
confirmed ; and a further grant was made to the company of
th6 submerged lands lying east of its tracks and breakwater,
within the distance of one mile therefrom, between the south
line of the south pier extended eastwardly and a line extended
castward from the south line of lot twenty-one.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

473

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

What is the fair and natural import of the language used?
So long as the act stands in force there seems to me to
exist a contract; whereby the. Illinois Central Company is to
have and enjoy perpetual possession and control of the lands
in question, with the right to improve the same and take the
rents, issues and profits thereof, provided always that the
company shall not have the power to sell or alien such lands,
nor shall the company be authorized to maintain obstructions
to the Chicago harbor, or to impair-the public right of navigation; nor shall the company, its lessees or assigps, be exempted from any act of the general assembly, which may
be hereafter passed, regulating the rates of wharfage and
dockage to be charged in said harbor, and whereby, in consideration of the grant of these rights and privileges, it shall
be the duty of the company to pay, and the right of the State
'to receive, seven per cent of the gross receipts of the railroad
company from., "use, profits, leases or otherwise, of said land
or the improvements thereon, or that may be hereafter made
thereon."
Should the railroad company attempt to disregard the restraint on alienating the said lands, the State can, by judicial
proceeding, enjoin such an act, or can treat it as a legal
ground of forfeiting the grant; or, if the railroad company
fails or refuses to pay the per centum provided for, the State
can enforce such payment by suit at law, and possibly by proceedings to forfeit the grant. But so long as the railroad
company shall fulfil its part of the agreement, so long is the
State of Illinois inhibited by the Constitution of the United
States from passing any act impairing the obligation of the
contract.
Doubtless there are limitations, both expressed and implied,
on the title to and control over these lands by the company.
As we have seen, the company is expressly forbidden to
obstruct Chicago harbor, or to impair the public right of navigation. So, from the nature of the railroad corporation and
of its relation to the State and the public, the improvements
put upon these lands by the company, must be-consistent with
their duties as common carriers, and must be calculated to

OCTOBER

TERM, 1892.

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, ]3rown, JJ.

promote the efficiency of the railroad in the receipt and shipment of freight -from and by the lake. But these are incidents of the grant and do not operate to defeat it.
To pl:event misapprehension, it may be well to say that it
is not pretended in this view of the case that the State can
part, or has parted, by contract, with her sovereign powers.
The railroad company takes and holds these lands subject at
all times to the same sovereign powers in the State as obtain
in the case of other owners of property. Nor can the grant
in this case be regarded as in any way hostile to the powers of
the general government in the control of harbors and navigable waters.
The able and interesting statement, in the opinion of the
majority, of the rights of the public in the navigable waters,
and of the limitation of the powers of the State to part with
its control over them, is not dissented from. But its pertinency
in the present discussion is not clearly seen. It will be time
enough to invoke the doctrine of the inviolability of public
rights when and if the railroad company shall attempt to dis-regard them.
Should the State of Illinois see, in the great and unforeseen
growth of the city of Chicago and of the lake commerce,
reason to doubt the prudence of her legislature in entering
into the contract created by the passage and acceptance of the
act of 1869, she can take the rights and property of the railroad company in these lands by a constitutional condemnation
of them. So, freed from the shackles of an undesirable contract, she can make, as he expresses in her bill the desire to
do, a "more advantageous sale or disposition to other parties,"
without offence to the law of the land.
The doctrine that a State, by making a grant to a corporation of her own creation, subjects herself to the restraints
of law judicially interpreted, has been impugned by able political thinkers, who may, perhaps, find in the decision of
the court in the present case some countenance of their views.
But I am unable to suppose that there is any intention on
the part of this court to depart from its doctrine so often expressed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

475

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, Brown, JJ.

"We have no knowledge of any authority or principle
which could support the doctrine that a legislative grant is
revocable in its own nature, and held oinly durante beneplacito.
is utterly .inconsistent with a great
Such a doctrine . .

and fundamental principle of a republican government, the
right of the citizens to the free enj 6 yinent of their property
legally acquired."
"A private corporation created by the legislature may lose
its franchises by a misuser or non-user of them, and they may
be resumed by the gove'nment under a judicial judgment
upon a quo warranto to ascertain and enforce the forfeiture.
But that the legislature can repeal statutes creating
private corporations, or confirming to them property already
acquired under the faith of previous laws, and by such repeal
can vest the property of such corporations exclusively in the
State, or dispose of the same to such purposes as they may
please, without the consent or default of the corporators, we
are not prepared to admit; and we think ourselves standing'
upon the principles of natural justice, upon the fundamental
laws of every free government, upon the spirit and the letter
of the Constitution of the United States, and upon the decisions of most respectable judicial tribunals, in resisting such a
Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43, 51, 52.
doctrine."
In Stone v. Mississipi, 101 U. S. 814, 816, Chief Justice
Waite, in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It is now
tob late to contend that any contract which a State actually,
enters into, when granting a charter to a private corporation,
is not within the protection of the clause in the Constitution
of the United States that prohibits States from passing laws
impairing the obligation of contracts. The doctrines of Truistees of Dartmouth College. v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, an-

nounced by this court more than sixty years ago, have become
so imbedded in the jurisprudence of the United States as to
make them to all intents and purposes a part of the Constitution itself."
The obvious conclusion from the foregoing view of the case
is that the act of 1873, as an arbitrary act of revocation, not
passed in the exercise of any reserved power, is void, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

decree of the court below should be reversed, and that that
court should be directed to enter a decree dismissing the bill
of the State of Illinois and the cross-bill of the. city of Chicago.
I am authorized to state that M. JusTicE GRAY and MR.
JusTicE

BRow- concur in this dissent.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, having been of counsel in the court below,
and MR. JUSTIcE BLATCHFORD, being a stockholder in the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, did not take any part in tie
consideration or decision of these cases.

DERBY v. THOMNPSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 40. Argued November 11, 14, 1892.-Decided December 12, 1892.

The article claimed to be protected under the second claim in letters patent
No. 224,923 issued February 24, 1880, to Joseph W. Kenna for a new and
useful improvement in a combined child's chair and carriage, (lid not,
with reference to the state of the art at the time, involve invention in
the opinion, of the majority of the court; but all the judges concur in the
opinion that the claim should receive a narrow construction, and, that, in
this aspect of the case, the defendants' chairs did not infringe.

THIs was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent number 224,923, issued E'ebruary 24, 1880, to Joseph IV.
Kenna, for a new and useful inpovement in a combined child's
chair and carriage.
The invention related to an article of furniture wvhich, by a
simple adjustment of the parts, may be converted from a child's
high chair for use at a table to a child's carriage, and vise
,ersa, as may be desired; and more particularly to the manner
of connecting the chair to its supporting frame, and supporting
it thereon. It consisted practically of an ordinary chair, B,
with four legs, mounted when used as a high chair upon a

