OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

March 3, 1885, relating to the latter court. It is well settled
that a proceeding in habeas corpus is a civil and not a criminal
proceeding. Parnsworth v. Montana, ubi supra; Ex )art,
Tom Tong, 108 U. S. 556; Zertz v. 1Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487.
The application here was brought by petitioner to assert the
civil right of personal liberty against the respondent, who is
holding him in custody as a criminal, and the inquiry is into
his right to liberty notwithstanding his condemnation.
In order to give this court jurisdiction under the act of
March 3, 1885, last referred to, the matter in dispute must be
money; or some right, the value of which in money can be calculated and ascertained. lfturtz v. lfqfttt, ubi supra. And as
in this case the matter in dispute has no money value, the result is that no appeal lies.
It may also be noted that under the Tudiciary Act of March
3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, appeals from decrees of Circuit Courts
on habeas corpus can no longer be taken directly to this court
in cases like that at bar', but only in the classes mentioned in
the fifth section of that act. Lau Ow Bew v. United States,
144 U. S. &[; Horner v. United States, 143 U. S. 570.
Appeal dismissed.

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER AND LAKE
MICHIGAN RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO I THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 25. Argued and submitted November 2, 1892. -Decided

November 14, 1892.

If a bill to set aside a foreclosure sale of a railroad under a mortgage, on
the ground of fraud and collusion, be not filed until ten years after the
sale, a presumption of ]aches arises which it is incumbent on the plain-

tiff to rebut:
The tendency of the courts is, in such cases, to hold the plaintiff to a rigid
compliance with the law, which demands not only that he should have

been ignorant of the fraud, but should have used reasonable diligence to
inform.himself of all the facts; and especially is this the case where the

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER &c. RAILROAD. 89
Statement of the Case.
subject of the fraud is a railroad, and the plaintiff is a holder of its stock
and a resident of the neighborhood in which the fraud is alleged to have
taken place.
No negligence is imputable in such case to a person who is ignorant of his
interest in the property which is the subject of the alleged fraud; but if
he Is aware of his interest, and knows that proceedings are pending, the
result of which may be prejudicial to them, he is bound to look into such
proceedings so far as to see that no action is taken to his detriment.
In such a suit to set aside a foreclosure sale of a railroad, if the plaintiff
does not show at least a probability of a personal advantage to himself
by its being done, it is a circumstance against him, as a court of equity
is not called upon to do avain thing.
In such a case if it appear that the parties really in interest are content
that the decree stand, it should not be set aside at the suit of one who
could not possibly obtain a benefit from such action.
Ten years after the foreclosure and sale of a railroad, F. who was a stockholder, and resident in the vicinity, and who had, or might have had,
access to all the proceedings in the foreclosure suit, filed a bill to set
aside the foreclosure and sale upon the ground of collusion and fraud.
The alleged acts of collusion and fraud were patent on the face of the
proceedings. The property was incumbered, and it did not appear, from
the pleadings, nor was there any probability from the facts stated, that
any benefit would result to the plaintiff from setting aside the sale.
Held,
(1) That F. had been guilty of ]aches and that the suit was brought too
late;
(2) That the court would not entertain a bill to vindicate an abstract
principle of justice, or to compel the defendants to buy their
peace.
THIS was a bill in equity by a stockholder of the Mansfield,
Coldwater and Lake Michigan Railroad Company to open the
foreclosure of a mortgage upon its road executed' to George
W. Cass and Thomas A. Scott, trustees, and to vacate the
order of sale and all proceedings thereunder, upon the ground
of fraud and collusion, and for a receiver and injunction.
The bill purported to be filed for the benefit of the plaintiff
and all other stockholders of the defendant company, and,
after averring a written request to the directors and chief officers of the company to commence this suit, and the neglect
and refusal of such directors so to do, set forth that the plaintiff was and had been since the transactions set forth in the
bill the owner of 258 shares of the capital stock of the defendant company; that the sfiit was not collusive; and that, until

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

within a few months prior to the filing of this bill, he was
ignorant of the fraud charged.
The bill further averred that in June, 1871, the Mansfield,
Coldwater and Lake Michigan Railroad Company was incorporated under the laws of Michigan and Ohio, for the construction of a line of road from the city of Mansfield, in Ohio,
to the town of Allegan, in Michigan, with an authorize- capital stock of $4,000,000; that it began the construction of its
road on such line, and, in oider to obtain the money necessary
for its completion and equipment, on October 1, 1871,.executed
a mortgage to George W. Cass and Thomas A. Scott, trustees,
in the sum of $1,460,000; that on July 20, 1871, the defendant, hereinafter designated as " The Coldwater Company,"
entered into a contract with the Pennsylvania Company, also
made a defendant to this bill, by which the latter bound itself
to provide the necessary iron, etc., and to equip and operate
the whole line as a first-class road. In consideration of these
obligations the Coldwater Company agreed that its preferred
stock should be issued to the amount of the actual expenditures made by the Pennsylvania Company in doing the work
aforesaid, said stock to be entitled to dividends equal to seven
per cent out of the net earnings of said road, with the further
agreement to deliver to the Pennsylvania Company bonds to
the amount of $20,000 per mile of track laid, and common
stock to an amount $5000 greater than the whole amount
of stock issued for all other purposes, said bonds and stock to
be delivered to Cuss and Scott, trustees, for delivery to the
Pennsylvania Company, as fast as material should be delivered
by said company to the value thereof, and in full as each ten
miles of iron should be laid, and the track put in running condition. That afterwards, and on May 4, 1872, the Coldwater
Company entered into another contract with the Pennsylvania
Company, by which it delivered to the latter all of its bonds
of the par value as above stated of $4,460,000, whereupon the
Pennsylvania Company, by its president, the said Scott, agreed
that, in consideration of the delivery of such bonds before the
iron was laid, and the other conditions performed, the Pennsylvania Company bound itself to take care of and pay all

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER &c. RAILROAD. 91
Statement of the Case.

interest coupons which might become due thereon prior to the
completion of said line of railway for traffic, and that for all
interest so paid and not justly chargeable thereto, under the
contract of July 20, 1871, the Pennsylvania Company should
be reimbursed out of the earnings of said road, after the same

should be completed in sections under said contract, and begin
to make earnings on the respective sections. The bill further
averred that all of said bonds remained in the possession and
under the control of the Pennsylvania Company from the time
of their delivery as agreed until the sale of the railroad under
the decree of the court; that on May 1, 1872, the Pennsylvania Company wrongfully obtained $1,500,000 of the common
stock of the Coldw.ater Company, claiming to be entitled
thereto under the contract of July 20, 1871; and that, after
obtaining the same, it managed and controlled the affairs of
the Coldwater Company, and thereby secured a majority of the
members of its board of directors, and absolutely influenced and
controlled all its corporate acts. That' when it was given said
capital stock it had in no way complied with its undertakings
hereinbefore mentioned, nor had it earned the same, nor in any
way become entitled thereto, but on the contrary had entirely
failed to perform upon its part its undertaking of July 20,
1871; that it finished no portion of said road as therein provided, and in no way earned an ownership in the bonds and
capital stock aforesaid. That on January 20, 1876, the said
Cass and Scott, trustees, filed a bill for the foreclosure of the
mortgage, averring the insolvency of the Coldwater Company,
and its failure to pay the interest on its bonds; that on April
17, 1876, the defendant company filed its answer denying each
material allegation of the bill, and setting up a full and complete defence; that on January 3, 1877, the Coldwater Company withdrew its appearance and answer, and on March 21,
suffered an orderpro confesso to be entered against it, in pursuance of which a decree of foreclosure and an order of sale
was made, and the property was sold August 8, 1877, to
Joseph Lessley in trust for the Pennsylvania Company for the
sum of $500,000; that all of the proceeds of such sale were
applied to the payment of the bonds held by the Pennsylvania

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

.Compatiy, and no portion came to the Coldwater Company,
or was applied to the payment of its debts or liabilities.
'Th6'gravamen of the bill was that, at the time of the execution: of the mortgage, the said Thomas A. Scott, trustee thereunder, was president of the Pennsylvania Company and its
chief executive officer; that George W. Cass, co-trustee, had
full knowledge of the relations of said Scott to the Pennsylvania Company, and of his aims and motives, and conspired
with him in forwarding the interests of the Pennsylvania
'Company to the detriment of the Coldwater Company. That
J. Twing Brooks, who was also made a defendant to this bill,
was a director of the Coldwater Company, and was also general attorney for the Pennsylvania Company, and legal counsellor and adviser of Cass and Scott, and as their solicitor
brought the suit to foreclose the mortgage, and in all of their
acts these parties were moved by, and acted whollkr in, the
interest of the Pennsylvania Company, and in violation of
their obligations to the Coldwater Company. That Reuben
F: Smith, George W. Layng, and Frank Janes, who were also
made defendants, were directors of the Coldwater Company,
and were also, at the same time, employ~s of the Pennsylvania
Company, and were made directors of the Coldwater Company at the instigation of Scott, for the sole purpose of carrying out the plans and schemes of the Pennsylvania Company.
That Cass and Scott, as trustees, prosecuted the foreclosure
suit in the interest of the Pennsylvania Company, to destroy
so much of the road of the Coldwater Company as lay west of
Tiffin, in Ohio, and to sink and destroy its stock; and that the
interests of said trustees and said Pennsylvania Company and
of the holders of said bonds were one and identical. That, by
the terms of the agreement of May 4, 1872, the Pennsylvania
Compary was bound to pay the interest matured upon the
bonds, and the subsequently accruing interest thereon, until
the completion of the road, under the agreement of July 20,
1871; and that the allegations of the foreclosure bill, that
the interest upon the bonds was overdue and unpaid, and that
the Coldwater Company was insolvent, were untrue, and were
known to be untrue by said trustees and the defendant Brooks.

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER &c. RAILROAD. 98
Statement of the Case.
It was further averred that the existence of the contract of
May 4, 1872, was, at the time of the withdrawal of the appearance and answer of the Coldwater Company, and the entering
of the decree, purposely concealed from the court and from the
stockholders of the company, as a part of the conspiracy and
fraud. That the defence to the foreclosure suit was withdrawn in pursuance of the collusive action of the board of
directors; that such withdrawal was solicited by Scott in the
interest of the Pennsylvania Company, and secured by Brooks
through the aid and support of Smith, Layng and Janes, employ~s of the Pennsylvania Company, all of whom were aided
and abetted by Henry C. Lewis and Joseph Fiske, two directors of said company, also deceased, both of whom were
directors of the Coldwater, Marshall and Mackinaw Railroad
Company, to which company was to be given by Scott and
Cass, the trustees, a large portion of the property of the Coldwater Company, to induce them to favor the withdrawal of
their answer. That the withdrawal df said defence was the
fraudulent act of Scott and Brooks, aided and abetted by the
directors conspiring together to cheat the Coldwater Company,
and to benefit the Pennsylvania Company; that, in furtherance
of such fraudulent scheme, Joseph Lessley, an employ6 of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, alto made defendant, bid off
the property, and in so doing acted only as agent or trustee of
the Pennsylvania Company, which was the 6nly real party
in interest. That the Pennsylvania Company organized the
Northwestern Ohio Railway Company, which is now the nomini1 owner of so much of the road of the Coldwater Company
as lies between Tiffin and Mansfield, and that the Pennsylvania Company is operating that part ef said road as the
nominal lessee of the Northwestern, which the bill averred
is but a branch of the Pennsylvania Company, and in their
relations to the said road the two corporations are identical.
That, in the operation of that part of the said road, the Pennsylvania Company has accumulated large earnings, and has
derived large revenue and receipts from sales, leases and other
sources from that portion of the Coldwater road between
Tiffin, Ohio, and Allegan in Michigan, and that the Pennsyl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

vania Company is now operating, and will continue to operate,
said road, and will dispose of and encumber its property to the
irreparable injury of the Coldwater Company, unless restrained,
etc. The bill further averred that until recently neither the
plaintiff nor any of those whom he represents had any knowledge
of the contract of Alay 4, 1S72, by which the Pennsylvania
Company was bound to pay the interest as it accrued upon
the bonds, and he believes that such knowledge was purposely
kept from plaintiff and the other stockholders, as well as from
some of the directors of the Coldwater Company, by the Pennsylvania Company and by Scott and Brooks, for the purpose
of carrying out the fraudulent scheme set forth. That at the
time of the sale of such property, and the application of
the prodeeds of such sale to the payment of interest upon
the bonds, the Pennsylvania Company was under obligation
to pay such interest by the terms of its contract of May 4,
1872, and there was no liability on the part of the Coldwater
Company to pay the same, all of which facts were known to
the Pennsylvania Company, to Scott and Cass, trustees, and
to Brooks and the other directors referred to, and that they
conspired to keep such knowledge from the plaintiff and from
other stockholders.
The bill prayed that the decree of foreclosure and order of
sale and all other proceedings be vacated; that the answer
withdrawn be reinstated; that the case be held for further
hearing upon the issues joined by the bill and answer in the
foreclosure suit; that the defendant Cass, then surviving
trustee, be required to account; that the Pennsylvania Conpany be held to have received the rents, issues, and profits
from all of said railroad property in trust for the benefit
and use of the Coldwater Company; and that a receiver be
appointed and an injunction issued against the further selling,
leasing, or otherwise encumbering the property of the Coldwater Company during the pendency of the suit. There were
annexed as exhibits to the bill the construction contract of
July 20, 1871, the agreement of the Pennsylvania Company
of May 41,18712, and a complete transcript of the proceedings
in the foreclosure suit.

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER &c. RAILROAD. 95
Argument for Appellant.

The answer of the defendant, the Coldwater Company, to
the bill of foreclosure in that suit averred that the company
was not legally incorporated until January 6, 1873, and that
prior to that date it possessed no power or authority to execute either the bonds or mortgages, and denied that they were
the act of the corporation or constituted any valid lien upon
its property; that while the company was created by the
consolidation of a Michigan and an Ohio corporation by
an agreement of April 13, 1871, no election of directors
of said consolidated company was held until January 6,
1873, and that, until such election, the consolidated company did not succeed to the rights and franchises of the original corporation, nor was its organization perfect and complete
until such election, nor did it have power to make contracts
and incur liabilities; that the agreement of July 20, 1871, was
entered into with one Willard S. Ilickox, on behalf of the
defendant, and that he subsequently entered into a traffic contract with the Pennsylvania Company, assuming to act for
the Coldwater Company, and as president thereof.
The
answer further set up the contract of May 4, 1872, and
alleged that at the date of the delivery of the bonds to the
Pennsylvania Company such company was not entitled to any
portion thereof; that "none of said bonds are held by bona
.ded owners, but the pretended hqlders and owners thereof
have, and are chargeable with, notice of all the matters
herein set forth, and all of the equities of the defendant arisin- therefrom." That the Pennsylvania Company had never
earned the stock fraudulently delivered to it, nor had it
entitled itself to any interest on the bonds delivered as aforesaid. The other allegations of the answer were much the
same as those of the bill in the present case.
The bill was subsequently amended, and general demurrers
were filed both to the original and amended bills, and upon
the hearing of said demurrers the Circuit Court made a decree
dismissing the bill. 36 Fed. Rep. 627. From this decree the
plaintiff appealed to this court.
_Mr. John H. Doyle for appellant contended, upon the
points discussed in the opinion of the court:

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

I. Stockholders are not chargeable with notice; are not
bound to examine records: and are not bound to suspect or
presume frauds by'their directors. Pacific Railroad qf .2Wissouri v. J f 9souri Pacific Railway, 111 U. S. 505; Hilbourn
v. Sunderland, 130 U. S. 505.
II. As to laches, we recognize the fact that equity does
not encourage stale demands or claims, and that it requires
promptness and diligence on the part of its suitors. But no
application of an equitable rule will ever be permitted to
work inequity. What is diligence, or what constitutes a stale
equity, are questions which depend upon the facts and circumstances of "ach case, and not on lapse of time alone. P"acall v. [finderer, 28 Ohio St. 568.
Laches presupposes knowledge or neglectful ignorance.
Where the party is ignorant of his rights, and is guilty of no
negligence, he can never be said to be too late in asserting his
claim, when he does it upon learning of them, until some
statute of limitation bars him, and this without reference to
fraud or concealment; but much less can it be said that his
demand is stale, when by the fraud of the party adverse to
him he has been prevented from sooner asserting it. See also
.3eaderv. NYorton, 11 Wall. 442; Boomer v. Flrench, 40 Iowa,
601; Humphreys v. -Mattoon, 43 Iowa, 556; Reed v. MJinell,
30 Alabama, 61; Vilsorb v. I y, 32 Mississippi, 233; Buckner
v. Calcate, 28 Mississippi, 432; HIudson v. Wtheeler, 34 Texas,
356; .Munson v. -Hallowell,26 Texas, 475; S. C., 84 Am. Dec.
582; Peck v. Bullard, 2 Humph. 41.
-Mr. J

. Brookq for appellees submitted on his brief.

MR. JUsTIoE BROWN, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill in this case was dismissed in the court below upon
the ground of laches, and also for the want of equity. The
propriety of this action is now before us for review.
As the alleged fraudulent sale of this road, which constitutes the gravamen of the bill, took place August 28, 1877,

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER &c. RAILROAD. 97
Opinion of the Court.

and the bill was not filed until August 30, 1887, ten years
thereafter, there is certainly a presumption of laches, which it
is incumbent upon the plaintiff to rebut. His reply is that he
did not discover the fraud until a few months before the filing
of the bill. The allegation of the original bill in that particular
is very general, namely, that "until within a few months prior
to the filing of this bill, he and .those whom he represents
were entirely ignorant of each and, all of the fraudulent proceedings hereinafter set forth, and that this bill of complaint
was filed in this court as soon after the acts of fraud, hereinafter set forth, came to his knowledge, as he could satisfy
himself of the truth thereof.

.

.

And your orator had

no knowledge of any of the frudulent acts hereinbefore
complained of, until very recently accidentally discovered."
The amended bill is much more specific in its details, and
avers that a certain supplemental mortgage, which appears to
have been executed by the Coldwater Company, October 1,
1872, to the same parties as trustees, for the purpose of
effecting the sale and negotiation of its bonds, at the time of
its execution by the officers of the company, contained a full
reference to the contract of May 4, 1872, the same having
been inserted for the purpose of giving to all the purchasers
of bonds due notice regarding the obligations ofI the Pennsylvania Company; but that after the execution of said
supplemental mortgage, and the same had come into the
possession of the officers of the Pennsylvania Company, it was
altered by striking out all reference to the interest contract of
May 4, 1872, or by taking-out of' the mortgage the page on
which said reference was made, and substituting therefor
another page in which said reference was omitted, and the
mortgage was recorded as so altered. That the plaintiff ari
,the other stockholders were thereby kept from' all knowledge
of this contract, and'of the obligations of the Pennsylvania
Company, and were also, ignorant of the alteration of the
supplemental mortgage until after the filing of the original
bill. The amended bill further avers that, during all this
time, the records of the railroad company were kept out of
the reach of the stockholders; that no meeting of stockholders
VOL. cxLvI-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

was ever called after that of January, 1874; no notice was
given for the election of directors; and that the knowledge
of the contract of May 4, 1872, was purposely kept from the
stockholders, plaintiff believing that the decree of foreclosure
was final and the company hopelessly insolvent, and that
there was no advantage in keeping up the organization of the
company, and hence no annual meetings were called or held,
all of which was brought about by the Pennsvlvania Company as a part of the scheme and conspiracy to obtain the
property, and defraud the stockholders of the Coldwater
Company out of the same. Plaintiff further alleged that
some time during the month of May, 1886, he was shown a
copy of the contract of May 4, 1872; that until that time he
neither knew or had any means of knowing or suspecting the
unlawful proceedings alleged in the bill, or that there was or
could be any lawful or valid defence to the foreclosure; that
le began at once a careful examination of all the facts, but
was greatly retarded by his inability to discover the records
or papers of the company, or to find the original of this
contract, and did not find them until within six months of the
time of filing the bill. That the majority of the board of
directors was made up of the officers and employ~s of the
Pennsylvania Company, and, acting in this interest, kept from
stockholders all means of obtaining information, and neglected
to make reports or call stockholders' meetings for the purpose
of enabling them to obtain information; and that if the plaintiff had known of the existence of such contract, or any of
the matters in defence of the bill of foreclosure during the
pendency of those proceedings, he would have called the same
to the attention of the court.
Do these allegations exhibit such a state of facts as acquits
the plaintiff of the charge'of laches? Taken literally, they
show that plaintiff had no knowledge of the contract bf May
4, 1872, until May, 1886; but it also appears that in the
original answer to'the foreclosure bill, which was filed Mfarch
1, 1876, the substance of this contract was set out, and the
same allegations of fraud with respect to the conduct of
the Pennsylvania Company up to that time were made in the

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER &c. RAILROAD. 99
Opinion of the Court.

answer as are made in the plaintiff's bill in this case. This
answer, though nominally withdrawn by consent of the
parties, does riot appear to have been actually taken from the
files, and, being a part of the records of the court, the presumption is that it would not be so taken away without leave
of the court. It is also certified here by the clerk as a part of
the record of the foreclosure suit. Not only was the contract
set forth in this answer, but in the answer and cross petition
of Swan, Rose & Co., judgment creditors of the road to the
amount of 8600,000, which was filed December 18, 1876, the
same contract vas set forth, and the authority of Hickox,
the president of the defendant company, to make such contract was denied; and it was averred that the Pennsylvania
Company had wtongfully obtained certificates for a million
and a half of stock, and had assumed to manage and control
the affairs of the company.
The defence of want of knowledge on the part of one
charged with laches is one easily made, easy to prove by his
own oath, and hard to disprove; and hence the tendency of
courts in recent years has been to hold the plaintiff to a rigidY
compliance with the law which demands, not only that he
should have been ignorant of the fraud, but that he should
have used reasonable diligence to have informed himself of
all the facts. Especially is this the case where the party
complaining is a resident of the neighborhood in which the
fraud is alleged to have taken place, and the subject of such
fraud is a railroad with whose ownership and management
the public, and certainly the stockholders, may be presumed
to have some familiarity. The foreclosure of this road could
not have taken place without Actual as well as legal knowledge
of thd fact by its stockholders, and if they believed they had
any valuable interest to protect, it was their duty to have
informed themselves by an inspection of the records of the
court in which the foreclosure was carried on, of what was
being done, and to have taken steps to protect themselves, if
they had reason to believe their rights were being sacrificed
by the directors. If a person be ignorant of his interest in a
certain transaction, no negligence is impiutable to him for

OOTOBEIr TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

failing to inform himself -of his rights; but if he is aware of
his interest, and knows that proceedings are pending the result

of which may be prejudicial to such interests, he is bound to
look into such proceedings so far as to see that no action is
taken to his detriment. An examination of the records in

,this case woul4 have apprised the plaintiff not only of the
oxstence of the contract of May 4, 1872, but of the alleged
fraudulent conduct of the Pennsylvania Company thereunder,
and of the withdrawal of their answer by the directors, which
is now claimed -to be decisive proof of fraud. An inquiry of
the directors, two of whom had protested. against the resolution to withdraw the answer, and were within easy reach of
the plaintiff, would have disclosed all the material facts set
forth in plaintiff's bill, even to the reasons assigned for withdrawing the answer. The slightest effort on his part would
have apprised him of the proceedings subsequent to the sale;
of the purchase of the road by Lessley, the alleged employ6 of
the Pennsylvania Company; of the subsequent organization
of the INorthwestern Ohio Railway Company; and of the
lease of the new railway company to the Pennsylvania Company. Had he asked the leave of the court to intervene for
the protection of his interest, it would have undoubtedly
acceded to his request. Instead of this, he permits the sale to
take place, and the road to pass into the hands of a new
corporation, which has operated it for ten years without
objection from the bondholders or creditors of the Coldwater
Company, and without question as to its title. In the -meantime many of the witnesses, including both Cass and Scott,
trustees, whose alleged fraudulent betrayal of their trust
constitutes the gravamen of this bill, are dead, as well as
Lewis, the president, and Fish and F. V. Smith, directors of
.the defendant company, one of whom participated with Lewis
in the meeting at which the attorneys were instructed to
withdraw, their defence, and all opportunity of explanation
from them is lost. It is-evident .that the plaintiff in this suit
has fallen far short of that degree of diligence which, under
the most recent decisions of this court, the law exacts in condonation of this long delay. Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342;

FOSTER v. MANSFIELD, COLDWATER &c. RAILROAD. 101
Opinion of the Court.

Hammond v. Hleopkcins, 143 U. S. 224; Hoyt v. Lathan?, 143
U. S. 553; Felix v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 317.
We are the more readily reconciled to this conclusion from
the fact that it does not appear that, if this sale were set
aside and held for naught, the decree would redound to the
advantage of the plaintiff. The only allegation as to his
interest is that he is the owner and colder of 258 shares of
the capital stock -of the company of dcujtpar value of $12,000.
It does not appear how much of its aithorized capital stock
of $4,000,000 was actually i/sued, though there is an allegation in the bill that the Pennsylvania Company wrongfully
obtained $1,500,000 of the stock of the Coldwater Company
in addition to the preferred stock, which the plaintiff averred
was to be issued, for actual expenditures at cash values made
by this company. Whatever amount was issued, it is safe to
infer that plaintiff's interest was comparatively very small.
If the decree were set aside and the case reinstated as he
demands, his rights, as well as those of the other stockholders, would be subordinate to those of the bondholders,
and probably also to those of the judgment creditors of the
road. It is a difficult matter to say what amount of bonds
was earned by the Pennsylvania Company, although it is
admitted that iron was laid on 75 miles of the road, and the
road completed for at least 47 miles, for which the Pennsylvania would be entitled to bonds at $20,000 per mile, and
also that the company raised nothing toward the sinking fund
which was provided for by the original mortgage. Under
these circumstances, the trustees could hardly fail to obtain
another decree of foreclosure for a large amount; and as the
road was hopelessly insolvent, it is hardly within the bounds
of possibility that it should sell for more than enough to pay
the amount adjqdged to be due, to say nothing of the judgment creditors' claims of Swan, Rose & Co. In a case of this
,kind, where the plaintiff seeks to annul a long-standing decree,
it is a circumstance against him that he does not show a
probability at least of a personal advantage to himself by its
being done. A court of equity is not called upon to do a vain
thing. It will not entertain a bill simply to vindicate an

OCTOBER TERMvf, 1892.
Citations for Appellants.

abstract principle of justice or to compel the defendants to
buy their peace, and if it appear that the parties really in
interest are content that the decree shall stand, it should not
be set aside at the suit of one who could not possibly obtain a
benefit from such a3tion.
In the view we have taken of this case upon the question of
]aches, it is unnecessary to consider whether the plaintiff has
made such a case of fraud in the original decree as justifies the
interposition of a court of equity.
The decree of the court dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Affirmed.

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPAIY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Wo. 28. Submitted November 1, 1892. -Decided

November 14, 1892.

The doctrine of Inches applied to a suit in equity, the bill having been filed
in 1881, more than 35 years after the cause of- action accrued; and
information having been obtained by the agent of the plaintiffs, in 1843,
which imposed the duty of further inquiry; and like information having
been obtained in 1854, and in 1858, and in 1869.
There was no distinct averment in the bill as to the time when the alleged
fraud was discovered, and what the discovery was, nor did the bill or
the proof show that the delay was consistent with the requisite diligence.
As to the statute of limitation, as affecting the question of laches, all the
plaintiffs were capable of suing from 1854.

TxE case is stated in the opinion.
.M2r. Warlter 6reshram, .M. X a. X.cLemore, .Xr. S. W:
Jones and .Xr. G.
- fann for appellants submitted on their
brief; citing, on the question of laches, Oliver v. ]Piatt,3 How.
333, 411; Bayard v. Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank, 52
Penn. St. 232; Telegraph Co. v. Davenport, 97 U. S. 369;
Meader v. Yorton, 11 Wall. 442; Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall.

