OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

that this action of the court was correct, and that it offered
to submit to the jury the only question which the plaintiffs
could properly ask to have submitted.
(1) The other assignments of error are either immaterial or
are covered by what has been already said.

Judgment affi'iiwd.

HAMILTON GAS LIGHT AND COKE COMPANY v.
HAMILTON CITY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 32. Argued November 2, 3,1892. -Decided

November 21, 1892.

The provision in sec. 2486 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, authorizing
cities and villages in that State to erect gas-works at the expense of the
municipality, or to purchase any gas-works therein, do not infringe the
contract clause of the Constitution of the United States when exercised
by a municipality, within which a gas company has been authorized,
under the provisions of the acts of 'May 1, 1852, and March 11, 1853, to
lay down pipes and mains in the public streets and alleys and to supply
the inhabitants with gas, and has exercised that power; and with which
I the municipal authorities have contracted, by contracts which have expired by their own limitation, to supply the public streets, lanes and
alleys of the municipality with gas.
A municipal ordinance not passed under legislative authority, is not a law
of the State within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition against
state laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
Public grants susceptible of two constructions must receive the one most
favorable to the public.
Although a legislative grant to a corporation of special privileges may be a
contract, when the language of the statute is so explicit as to require
such ,Lconstruction, yet if one of the conditions of the grant be that the
legislhaure may alter or revoke it, a law altering or revoking the exclusive character of the -ranted privileges cannot be regarded as one impairing the obligation of the contract.

THE court stated the case as follows:

The 1-amil ton Gas Light and Coke Company invokes against
a certain ordinance of the city of Hamilton, a municipal cor-

HAMILTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. HAIILTON CITY. 259
Statement of the Case.

poration of Ohio, the protection of the clause of the Constitution of the United States which forbids the passage by a State
of any law impairing the obligation of contracts, as well as
the clause declaring that no State shall deprive any person of

property without due process of law. By the final judgment
a temporary injunction granted against the city was dissolved
and the bill dismissed. 37 Fed. Rep. 832.
The appellant became a corporation on the 6th day of July,
1855, under the general statute of Ohio of May 1, 1852, providing for the creation and regulation of incorporated companies.
By the 53d section of that statute it was provided that any
corporation formed under it should have full powers, if a gas
company, to manufacture and sell and to furnish such quantities of gas as might "be required in the city, town or village
where located, for public and private buildings, or for other
purposes," with authority to lay pipes for conducting gas
through the streets, lanes, alleys and squares, in such city,
town or village, "with the consent of the municipal authorities of said city, town or village, and under such reasonable
regulations as they may prescribe." The 54th section gave
the municipal authorities power "to contract with any such
corporation for lighting
-the streets, lanes, squares
and public places in any such city, town or village." 1 Svan
& Critchfield Stats. 271, 300; 50 Ohio Laws, 274.
On the 11th of March, 1853, a supplementary act was passed
authorizing the city council to regulate, by ordinance, from time
to time, the price Which gas light or gas light and coke companies should charge for gas furnished to citizens, or for public
buildings, streets, lanes or alleys in such cities; and providing
that such companies should in no event charge more than the
price sp.ecified by ordinance of the city council, and that the
city council might, by ordinance, regulate and fix the price for
the rent of meters. Other sections of the act were in these
words: "Sec. 31. That if such companies shall at any time hereafter be required by any city council as aforesaid to lay pipes
and light any street or streets, and shall refuse or neglect for
six months after being notified by authority of such city council to lay pipes and light said streets; then and in that case

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

such city council may lay pipes and erect gas-works for the
supply of said streets, and all other streets which are not
already lighted; and the said gas companies, gas light and coke
companies, shall thereafter be forever precluded froi'n using or
occupying any of the streets not already furnished with gas
pipes of such companies; and such city council may have the
right to open. any street for the purpose of conveying gas as
afores~id. Sec. 32. That a neglect to furnish gas to the citizens
or other consumers of gas, or to any city by such companies,
in conformity to the preceding section of this act, and in
accordance with the prices fixed and established by ordinance
of such city council, from time to time, shall forfeit all rights
of such company under the charter by .which it has been
established; and any such city council may hereafter proceed
to erect, or by ordinance empower any person 6r persons to
erect gas-works for the supply of gas to suchcity and itq citizens as fully as any gas light or gas light and coke company
can now do, and as fully as if such companies had never been
created." Curwen's Stats. c. 1248, pp. 2153, 2164, 2165; 51
Ohio Laws, 300.
Another act was passed April 5, 1854, empowering the city
council to fix, from time to time, by ordinance, the minimum
price at which it would require the company to furnish gas,
for any period not exceeding ten years; and providing that
from and after the asseilt of the company to such ordinance,
by written acceptance thereof, filed in the clerk's office of the
city, it should not be lawful for the council to require the company to furnish gas to the citizens, public buildings, public
grounds or public lamps of the city at a less price during the
period of time agreed on, not exceeding ten years. That act
it was declared, should not operate to impair or affect any contract theretofore made betweexi any city and any gas light or
gas light and coke company. It was further provided: "Sec. 2.
That the city council of such city may, at any time after the
default mentioned in the thirty-first section of the act to which
this is supplementary [c. 1248, p. 2164], by ordinance, permit
such gas company to use and occupy the streets of such city
for the purpose of lighting the same and furnishing the gas- to

HAMIfLTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. HAMILTON

CITY.

261

Statement ct the Case.

the citizens and public buildings. Sec. 3. That any temporary
failure to furnish gas shall not operate as a forfeiture, under
the 32d section of the act to which this is supplementary,
unless such failure shall be by neglect or misconduct of such
gas light or gas light and coke company: Provided,That such
company shall, without unnecessary delay, repair the injury,
and continue to supply such gas." Curwen Stats. c. 1439, p.
2570; 52 Ohio Laws, 30.
When the municipal laws of Ohio relating to gas companies
were revised and codified in 1869, the above provisions were
retained without material alteration, and now appear in the
Revised Statutes of Ohio. 66 Ohio Laws, Title, Municipal
Code, 145, 149, 218, 219, §§ 415 to 423; 1 Rev. Stats. Ohio,
Title 12, Div. 8,c. 3, pp. 637 et seq. 3d ed.1890.
But this revision and codification contained a provision not
appearing in any previous statute, and now constituting section 2486 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio. That section is in
these words:
"Sec. 2486. The council of any city or village shall have
power, whenever it may be deemed expedient and for the public good, to erect gas-works at the expense of tfie corporation,
or to purchase any gas-works already erected therein."
By an ordinance of the city of Hamilton, passed July 9, 1855,
the appellant was authorized to place pipes in streets, lanes,
alleys and public grounds to convey gas for the use of the city
and its inhabitants; the company to have "the exclusive privilege of laying pipes for carrying gas in said city and of putting up pipes in dwellings in connection with the street pipes
for the term of twenty years from the passage of this ordinance;" but not to charge for gas furnished the city or its
inhabitants a price greater than, during the period of the
contract, was usually charged in cities of similar size and with
like facilities for the making and furnishing of gas. The
company,- from time to time, as required by the city, placed
lamp-posts at the points indicated by resolutions passed by the
council.
Written contracts were made, from time to time, between
the parties, for ligh:ing the city. The first one was dated

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

April 10, 1862. The last one was dated July 16, 1883, and
expired, by its terms, January 1, 1889.
On the second day of January, 1889, the council passed a
resolution reciting the termination of the last contract, and
declaring that the city no longer desired the company to furnish gas for lighting streets and public places, and would not,
after that date, pay for any lighting furnished or attempted
to be furnished by the company, which was forbidden the use
of the lamp-posts and other property of the cityland notified
to remove without delay any attachment or connection theretofore maintained with the city's lamp-posts and other property. The company having been served with a copy of this
resolution, protested against the validity of this action of
the city. In a written protest, addressed to the council, it
announced that its gas mains, filled with gas, extended
throughout all the streets, etc., as theretofore designated and
required by the city; "that all said mains are connected with
your lamp-posts, lamps, and the burners thereon, and are all
ready and fit for the purpose for which they were constructed
and connected, and that -this company is ready now and at
all times to supply all the gas needed for the wants of your
city and its inhabitants, and will furnish the same upon notice
from you. This company owns the mains through which such
gas is furnished and distributed for said public and private
lighting; you own the la.mp-posts, lamps and burners connected therewith."
The city, January 4, 1889' passed an ordinance looking to
the issuing-such issuing being first approved by the popular
vote -of bonds for "the purpose of itself erecting works to
supply the city and its inhabitants with gas.
The present suit was thereupon commenced by the company.
The relief asked was a decree perpetually enjoining the city
from disconnecting its lamp-posts from the company's mains or
from lighting the city by any means or process other than that
of the plaintiff's gas, as well as from-issuing bonds for the purpose of erecting gas-works or for the purpose of providing gasworks to supply gas light for the street9, lanes, alleys, public
buildings and places, and for private consumers.

HAMILTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. HAMILTON CITY. 263
Argniment for Appellant.

2Ut. John F. Follett and Mr. John F. Aeilan (with whom
was .Alr. T. IT...elley on the brief) for appellant.
I. There is no law of Ohio authorizing the council of any
city, in which there are gas-works in full operation and fully
performing all the duties required by the laws of the State, to
erect gas-works or to levy a tax for that purpose. Hirn v.
State, 1 Ohio St. 15, 20; State v. Franklin County, 20 Ohio
St. 421, 424; Pancoast v. Ruffin, 1 Ohio, 381, 386; Allen v.
Parish, 3 Ohio, 187; State v. Blake, 2 Ohio St. 147, 152;
Dodge v. Gridley, 10 Ohio, 173; State v. Darke County, 43
Ohio St. 311, 315; Warren v. Davis, 43 Ohio St. 447, 449;
Van Camp v. Board of Education, 9 Ohio St. 406.
While there might be some foundation for the claim that
section 2486, if it stood as an independent act, by implication
repealed the provisions of sections 2480 and 2482, there is now
no foundation whatever for any such claim; for, standing as
they do, there is but one inference possible, and that is, that
the several sections of the statute were each intended by the
legislature to have full force and effect, and that no one should
destroy or impair the force and effect of any other one of said
sections.
Looking at the history of this legislation in the light of
these decisions, the conclusion is irresistible that the several
sections of this statute must be so construed as to give force
and effect to each of said sections.
Reading the wh6le statute together, there can be no doubt
as to what was the scheme or system of the legislation upon
the subject of gas companies, and municipal regulations and
control of the same, and that scheme being found, it is the
duty of the court to so construe the statute as to make it effective as well as to harmonize each section with every other.
The establishment of a gas company requires the outlay of
a considerable sum of money. It is a risk at least depending
upon a great many contingencies as to whether it would be a
success. While it is thus upon one hand, on the other it is a
great advantage to the city. Among other things, it enables
the city to enforce with greater security its police power. Its

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Argument for Appellant.

establishment is for the mutual benefit of both city and gas
company. So the legislature in its wisdom has thrown safeguards and protection around both, preserving to the city the
power to control, and to the gas company its life' and existence subject to this power of control.
If a municipal corporation may at will erect gas-works and
operate the same by public funds raised by taxation, how can
it be said that the life and existence of a gas company are preserved subject to the control of the city, by the ,provisions of
these statutes?
It is manifest that it is not competition but confiscation that
is sought. No gas property can be successfully operated in
competition with the municipality in which it is located, and a
desire to avoid any such contingency, and to remove every
pretext for every such attempt as is here made, was the incentive to the pr~ovisioti in the statutes requiring that in any contract the right should be reserved to the municipality to
purchase the works.
II. The appellant company was organized under a law
which secured it against interference with its business on the
part of the city so long as it faithfully, performed the duties
undertaken by the acceptance of its charter ; and that charter
was a contract with the State, which could not be impaired by
subsequent legislation. .Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Oranch, 87, 133;
Dartmouth College v. Foodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Green v.
Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514;
Planters'Bank v. Sharp, 6 How. 301; Tincennes University
Tustees v. Indiana, 14 How. 268; PiquaBank v. I.noop, 16
How. 369; Bridge Proprietorsv. iloboken Company, 1 Wall.
116; .Tawtkorne v. Calef, 2 Wall. 10; The Binghamton
Bridge, 3 Wall. 51; .filler v. State, 15 Wall. 478; The Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206; Greenwood v. Freight Co.
105 U. S. 13 ; .Atew Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co.,
115 U. S. 650; .New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Rivers,
115 U. S. 674.
III. The power vested by the statutes of Ohio in city councils to provide gas-works is a power conferred for a public
benefit and to supply a public want, and when such benefit

HAMILTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. HAMILTON CITY. 265
Opinion of the Court.

has been conferred in a way recognized by the statute as sufficient, and the want does not exist, the power cannot be
exercised.
IV. Neither the State, nor the city representing the State,
can engage in any public enterprise in competition with a
private corporation organized for the same purpose and fully
complying with all the stipulations of the contract embodied
in its charter.
Giving to the charter of this company the most limited construction in the interest of the company, after inducing the
company to make large investments and expend large sums of
money in property practically worthless for any other purpose, neither the State nor any of its agencies can engage in
the same business at the expense of the people, to the irreparable injury, if not the total destruction of the property of
the company.
V. The gas company cannot be deprived of its property
without due process of law.
VI. The council of Hamilton has no power to levy a tax to
su'bserve private interests, or for any purpose other than a public
purpose, and where the professed purpose is to supply a public
want that does not exist, that tax is unauthorized and void.
31r. Allen Andrews, and -Mr. Israel Wiiams, for appeUee.
r: E. L. lorey, Xr. X 0. Burns, -Mr. James E. iLeal,
and -Mr.
E. E. Hull weje with them on tho brief.
M . JUSTE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The plaintiff's first contention is that there is no statute of
Ohio authorizing any city, in which there are already gasworks in full and complete operation, to erect gas-works, or
to levy a tax for that purpose. If this were conceded, we
should feel obliged -the plaintiff and defendant both being
corporations of Ohio - to reverse the judgment, and remand
the cause with directions to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court. The jurisdiction of that court

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

can be sustained only upon the theory that the suit is one
arising under the Constitution of the United States. But the
suit would not be of that character, if regarded as one in
which the plaintiff merely sought protection against the violation of the alleged contract by an ordinance to which the
State has not, in any form, given or attempted to give the
force of law. A municipal ordinance, not passed under supposed legislative authority, cannot be regarded as a law .of the
State within the meaning of the constitutional" prohibition
against State laws impairing the obligations of contracts.
2 urray v. Cliarleston, 96 U. S. 432, 440; Williams v. Brlf /,
96 U. S. 176, 183; Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388,
392; .H. 0. W1ater I1orks v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18,
31, 38. A suit to prevent th- enforcement of such an ordinance
would not, therefore, be one arising under the Constitution of
the United States. We sustain the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court because it appears that the defendant grounded its
right to enact the ordinance in question, and to maintain and
erect gas-works of its own, upon that section of the Municipal
Code of Ohio, adopted in 1869 (now section 2486 of the
Revised Statutes), providing that the city council of any city
or village should have power, whenever it was deemed expedient and for the public good, to erect gas-works at the expense
of the corporation, or to purchase gas-works already erected
therein; which section the plaintiff contends, if construed as
conferring the authority claimed, impaired the obligation of
its contract previously made with the State and the city.
What, then, we must inquire, is the scope and effect of section 2486 ? This precise question has been determined by the
Supreme Court of Ohio in State v. City of 11am ilton, 47 Ohio
St. 52, which was an action brought in the name of the State
to determine whether the city had authority to erect its own
gas-works. It was there contended, both by the Attorney
General and the Hamilton Gas Light and Coke Company,
that by sections 2-80 and 2482 of the Revised Statutes (which
are the same as sections 31 and 32 of the act of March 11,
1853), the 1,gislature specified the conditions under which the
council might build gas-works; that in the absence of those

HAMILTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. HAMILTON CITY. 267
Opinion of the Court.

conditions, the city was without power to do what it proposed to do; and that such an expression of the legislative
will excluded the right of the city to erect gas-works under

any circumstances.

Bukthe court said: "Those two sections

designate what refusal or neglect oh the part of gas companies to meet the requirements of law, would work a forfeiture of their rights under their charter, and authorize the
council to lay pipes, and erect gas-works, and exclude a gas
company already in operation from occupying any streets not
already furnished with gas pipes of such companies; but such
authority is very different from the general power conferred
upon the council by section 2486 to construct gas-works without reference to the manner in which the existing company
may use its franchise." "Section 2486," the court proceeds,
"in plain language gives the power to the coucil either to
erect gas-works, or to purchase such works already erected.
The authority granted is not coupled with any conditions or
contingency, but is to be exercised when the council may
deem it expedient and for the public good. The language is
free from ambiguity. The discretionary power would hardly
seem consistent with the limitation sought to be imposed, .that
the council can bdiild gas-works-unly where there are no gasworks in the municipality, or where gas companies, already
organized, refuse or neglect to comply.with the requirements
of the law as to lighting or laying pipes, or neglect to furnish
gas to citizens. The interest of the city m ay demand that a
gas company established and doing business, although complying with all statutes and ordinances, she Id not continue
to enjoy exclusive possession of the field of operation."
Again: "In its present form, section 2486 was passed many
years after the two sections which are reproduced in section
2480 and section 2482. Between the earlier and later statutory provisions we discovdr no repugnancy, and the canons
of statutory construction do not require that either should
prevail over the other. The authority given to municipalities
by the later section is distinct from and independent of the
power granted by the two antecedent sections."
Accepting, as we do, this decision of the highest court of

OCTO13ER TERi,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

the State as correctly interpreting the legislative will, and,
therefore, assuming that the legislature intended by section
2486 to confer authority upon the city of Hamilton to erect
gas-works at its expense, whenever deemed by it expedient or
for the public good to do so, the next contention of the plaintiff is that such legislation is within the constitutional inhibition of state laws impairing the obligations of contracts. This
view is inadmissible. The statutes in force when the plaintiff
became a corporation did not compel the city to use the gaslight furnished by the plaintiff. The city was empowered to
contract with the company, for lighting streets, lanes, squares,
and public iplaces within its limits, but it was under no legal
obligation to make a contract of that character, although it
could regulate, by ordinance, the price to be charged for gaslight supplied by the plaintiff and used by the city or its
inhabitants. Itmay be that the stockholders of the plaintiff
supposed, at the time it became incorporated, and when they
made their original investment,.that the city would never do
what evidently is contemplated by the ordinance of 1889.
And it may be that the erection and maintenance of gas-works
by the city at the public expense, and in competition with the
plaintiff, will ultimately impair, if not destroy, the value of the
plaintiff's works for the purposes for which they were established. But such considerations cannot control the determination of the legal rights of the parties. As said by' this court
in Curtis v. Whitney, 13 Wall. 68, 70: "N'Tor does every statute which affects the value of a contract impair itg obligation.
It is one of the contingencies to which parties look now in
making a large class of contracts, that they may be affected in
many ways by state and national legislation." If parties wish
to guard against contingencies of that kind they must do so
by such clear and explicit.language as will take their contracts
out of the established rule that public grants, susceptible of
two constructions, must receive the one most favorable to the
public. Upon this ground it was held in Stein v. Bienville
Water Supply Co., 141 U. S. 67, 81, that "we are forbidden to hold that a grant, under legislative authority, of an
exclusive privilege, for a term of years, of supplying a munici-

HAMILTON GAS LIGHT CO. v. HAMILTON CITY. 269
Opinion- of the Court.

pal corporation and its people with water drawn by means of
a system of water-works from a particular stream or river,
prevents the State from granting to other persons the privilege
of supplying, during the same period, the same corporation
and people with water drawn in like manner from a different
stream or- river." What was said in Turnpike Company v'
TAe State, 3 Wall. 210, 213, is quite applicable to the present
case. The State of Maryland incorporated a company with
power to construct a turnpike between Baltimore and Washington; and subsequently incorporated a railroad company,
with authority to construct a railroad between the same cities,
the line of which ran near to and parallel with the turnpike.
One of the questions in the case was, whether the last act
impaired the obligation of the contract with the turnpike company, it appearing that the construction of the railroad had
rendered it impracticable for the company, out of its diminished
income, to maintain the turnpike in proper order. This court
said: "The difficulty of the argument in behalf of the turnpike
company, and which lies at the foundation of the defence, is,
that there is no contract in the charter of the turnpike company that prohibited the legislature from authorizing the construction of the rival railroad. No exclusive privileges had
been conferred upon it, either in express terms, or by necessary
implication; and hence whatever may-have been the general
injurious effects and consequences to the company, from the
construction and operation bf the rival road, they are simply
misfortunes which may excite our sympathies, but are not the
subject of legal redress." So, it ipay be said, in the present
case, neither in the.statutes under which the plaintiff became a
corporation, nor in any contract it had with the city, after
January 1st, 1880, was there any provision that prevented the
State from giving the city authority to erect and maintain
gas-works at its own expense, or that prevented the city from
executing the power granted by the section of the Code of
1869 to which we have referred. . 'This conclusion is required, by other considerations. By
the constitution of Ohio, adopted in 1851, it was declared that
"no special privileges or ihmunities shall ever be granted,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892Opinion of the Court.

that may not be altered, revoked, or repealed by the general
assembly;" that "the general assembly shall pass, no special
act conferring corporate powers ;" and that "corporations
may be formed under general laws; but all such laws may,
from time to time, be alter6 & or repealed." Sec. 2, Art. 1;
Secs. 1, 2, Art. 13. If the statute under which the plaintiff
became incorporated be construed as giving it the exclusive
privilege, so long as it met the requirements of law, of supplying gas-light to the city of Hamilton and its inhabitants by
"means of pipes laid in the public ways, there is no escape
froym the conclusion that such a grant, as respects, at least, its
exclusive character, was subject to the power of the legislature,
reserved by the state constitution, of altering or revoking it.
This reservation of power to alter or revoke a grant of special
privileges necessarily became a part of the charter of every
corporation formed under the general statute providing for
the formation of corporations. A legislative grant to a corporation of special privileges, if not forbidden by the constitution, may be a contract; but where one of the conditions of
the grant is that the legislature may alter or revoke it, a law
altering or revoking, or which has the effect to alter or revoke,
the exclusive character of such privileges, cannot be regarded
as one impairing the obligation of the contract, whatever may
be the motive of the legislature, or however harshly such
legislation may operate, in the particular case, upon the corporation or parties affected by it. The corporation, by accepting. the grant subject to the legislative power so reserved by
the constitution, must be held to have assented to such reservation. These views are supported by the decisions of this court.
In Greenwood v. FreighAt Co., 105 U. S. 13, 17, the question
was as to the scope and effect of a clause in a general statute
of Massachusetts, providing that every act of incorporation
passed, after a named day, "shall be subject to amendment,
alteration or repeal at the pleasure of the legislature." This
court, referring to that clause, said: "Such an act may be
amended; that is, it may be changed by additions to its terms
or by qualifications of the same. It may be altered by the
same 'power, and it may be repealed. What is it may be

IN

RE CROSS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

repealed ? It is the act of incorporation.

It is this organic

law on which the corporate existence of the company depends
which may be repealed, so that it shall cease to be a law; or
the legislature may adopt the milder course of amending the
law in matters which need amendment, or altering it when
it needs substantial change. All this may be done at the
pleasure of the legislature. That body need give no reason
for its action in the matter. The validity of such action does
not depend on the necessity for it, or on the soundness of the
reasons which prompted it." The words "at the pleasure of
the legislature" are not in Ghe clauses of the constitution of
Ohio, or in the statutes to which we have referred. But the
general reservation of the power to alter, revoke or repeal a
grant of special privileges necessarily implies that the power
may be exerted at the pleasure of the legislature.
We perceive no error in the record in respect to the Federal
question involved, and the judgment must be
A ftirmed.

In

Pe CROSS,

Petitioner.

ORIGINA L.
No. 10 Original. Submitted November 29, 1892. -Decided

December 5, 1892.

The provision in section 845 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia that when the judgment in a criminal case is death or confinement in the penitentiary the court shall, on application of the party
condemned, to enable him to apply for a writ of error, "postpone the
final execution thereof" etc., relates only to the right of the accused to
a postponement of the day of executing his sentence, in case he applies
for it in order to have a review of an alleged error; and, with the exception of this restriction, the power of the court was left as it had been
at common law.

THIs was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus. The application was made by William Douglass Cross, a person indicted
and convicted of murder in the District of Columbia. Some

