OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

SAN PEDRO AND CARON DEL AGUA COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.

No. 7.

Argued October 17, 24, 1892.- Decided November 14, 1892.

Idaho & Oregon Land Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509, affirmed to the point
that "the authority of this court, on appeal from a Territorial court, is
limited to determining whether the court's findings of fact support its
judgment or decree, and whether there is any error in rulings, duly
excepted to, on the admission or rejection of evidence, and does not
extend to a consideration of the weight of evidence or its sufficiency to
support the conclusions of the court."
A bill in equity on the part of the United States to set aside a patent of
public lands issued by mistake or obtained by fraud will lie either when
there are parties to whom the government is under obligation in respect
to the relief invoked, or when that government has a direct pecuniary
interest in such relief each of which facts appears to exist in this case,
and one of which is not denied in the letter of Attorney General Brewster, which is set forth in the opinion of the court.
When the government has a direct pecuniary interest in the subject-matter
of the litigation tile defences of stale claim and laches cannot be set
up as a bar. United States v. Dalles llilitay Road Co., 140 U. S.599,
affirmed to this point.
T. was a special agent and examiner of surveys for the Land Department.
After this suit had been commenced, he was directed by the Land
Department to proceed to the disputed territory and make an examination as to the survey. He did so, and besides making surveys and
taking photographic views, he also obtained thirteen affidavits of witnesses, selected by himself, as to boundaries, etc. When called as a
witness he produced these affidavits as part of his testimony, and gave
his conclusions as to the proper boundaries of the grant, based partly
at least upon the information obtained from them. After his deposition containing these matters had been filed in the case, and before the
hearing in the District Court, two motions were made by the defendant
- one to'strike out the entire deposition, and the other to suppress
parts of it. Both were overruled and no exception taken. The District
Court found for the defendant, and entered a decree dismissing the bill.
An appeal having been taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory, the
entire record was transferred to that court. There, no new motion to
strike out this deposition, or any part of it, was presented, nor were the
two moti ns made in the District Court renewed in the Supreme Court,

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

121

Statement of the Case.
or action asked of that court thereon. The Supreme Court reversed the
decision of the District Court, and set aside the patent. A motion for a
rehearing was made, which was denied. Held,
(1) That no motion to exclude the deposition, or any part of it, having
been made in the Supreme Court before decision, and it not appearing in the record that the Supreme Court in giving its decision
passed upon the question of its admissibility, there was nothing in
that decision to review in that regard;
(2) That the action of the court on the motion for a rehearing presented no question for review by this court;
(3) That this court could not review the action of the District Court.
On the facts it appearing that a fraud was committed in making the survey
for the patent, and that the defendant was not a bona fide purchaser,
it is immaterial that the surveyor was not a party to the fraud.
ON February 12, 1844, Jos6 Serafin Ramirez, a citizen of the
republic of Mexico and a resident of Sante F6, in the department of New Mexico, petitioned the governor of that department for a grant of a tract of land known as the " C a ion del
Agua," together with the confirmation of the title to a mine
claimed as an inheritance from his grandfather. The material
part of the petition is as follows:
"I apply to your excellency in the name of the donation
laws of the 4th of January, 1813, and 18th of August, 1824,
and in the name of the Mexican nation, asking for a tract of
vacahtland known as the Cafion del Agua, near the placer of
San Francisco, called Placer del Tuerto, and distant from that
town about one league, more or less.
"The land I ask for is vacant and without owner and I
solicit it because I have no possession or property by which I
can support my family. The boundaries solicited are: On the
north, the road leading from the placer to the Palo Amarillo;
on the south, the northern boundary of the grant of San Pedro;
on the east, the spring of the Carion del Agua; on the west,
the summit of the mountain of the mine known as My Own,
as will appear by the accompanying document No. 1, for which
I ask your ratification and that of the departmental assembly,
in the manner that I received it, as an inheritance from my
grandfather Don Francisco Dias de Moradillos; and I ask that
this title be ratified according to the mining ordinances dated

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

in the year 1813, title 5, article 1; in view of all of which I pray
and request yodr excellency to grant me possession of the mine,
to work it, and the land which it embraces, which is about one
league, for cultivation and pasturing my animals, and for grinding ore and smelting metal.
"
SERAFIN RlIIlEZ.
"Saute F6, February 12, 1844."
To which petition the departmental assembly and the governor thus responded:
"Departmental assembly of New Mexico.
"In session of to-day the departmental assembly decrees that
Don Serafin Ramirez, auditor of the departmental treasury,
and the other heirs of Don Francisco Dias de Moradillos,
deceased, have a right as grandchildren to the mine referred to
in the petition, and title of possession and property, as expressed
in the mining laws, and further decrees that his excellency the
governor of the department, in conformity with the colonization
laws, shall grant the tract of land prayed for.
"MIARTINEZ, President.
"T IOMAS OZTrxz,
"SANTA

Secreta2T .

F. , February 13, 1844.

"And in answer to your petition I grant you the tract asked
for and revalidation of the title to the mine, which are enclosed herewith.
"God and liberty.

MNARIAN o MARTINEz.

"To Don Serafin Ramirez, auditor of the departmental
treasary, Santa F6."
The same year juridical possession of the tract was given,
the description in the certificate thereof being: "On the north,
the road of the Palo Amarillo; on the south, the boundary
of the Rancho San Pedro ; on the east, the spring of the Caiion
del Agua; on the west, the highest summit of the little mountain of El Tuerto, adjoining the boundary of the mine known

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

123

Statement of the Case.

as Inherited Property, from this date, according to the colonization laws of the republic."
By the treaty of Guadalupe iHidalgo, in 1848 (9 Stat. 922),
the Territory of New Mexico was transferred to the United
States. In 1859, Ramirez filed with the surveyor general of
New Mexico his petition, asking official recognition by this
government of his grant. The description in this petition was:
"The quantity of land claimed is five thousand varas square,
making one Castilian league, and bounded on the north by the
placer road that goes down to the yellow timber; on the south,
the northern boundary of the San Pedro grant; on the east,
the spring of the Caion del Agua; on the west, the summit
of the mountain of the mine known as the property of your
petitioner, as appears by the original title deeds accompanying
the notice, numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5." A hearing was had on
this application on the 10th day of January, 1860. The surveyor general reported in favor of the grant, and on June 12,
1866, Congress passed the following act of confirmation (14
Stat. 588, c..118):
"An act to confirm the title of Jos6 Serafin Ramirez to
certain lands in New Mexico.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States in America in Congress assembled, That
the grant to Jos6 Serafin Ramirez of the Cafion del Agua, as
approved by the surveyor general of New Mexico January
twenty, eighteen hundred and sixty, and designated as number
seventy in the transcript of private land claims in New Mexico, transmitted to Congress by the Secretary of the Interior
January eleven, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, is hereby
confirmed: Provided,however, That this confirmation shall
only be construed as a relinquishment on the part of the
United States, and shall not affect the adverse rights of any
person whomsoever.
"Approved June 12, 1866."
O. August 9, 1866, a survey was made by a deputy surveyor, under the direction of the surveyor general of New

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Mexico.

This survey, after approval by such surveyor gen-

eral, was forwarded to the Land Department at Washington,
and on July 1, 1875, a patent was issued granting the land
with boundaries as established by this survey. The following
is a plat of the property as surveyed and patented:

X T//.RA 7&

MUIRTO
Mr:

C.

SAN PEDRO GRANT.

w

B

B

In 1866, Ramirez conveyed the property to Cooley and
others, from whom, in 1880, it passed to the present defendant. Thereafter, and on September 15, 1881, this suit was
commenced by the United States in the District Court of the
First Judicial District of the Territory of New Mexico, to set

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

125

Argument for Appellant

aside the patent and annul the title conveyed thereby on the
ground of fraud in the survey. An answer was filed, proofs
were taken, and the case went to final hearing before the
District Court. By that court, on February 16, 1885, a decree
was entered in favor of the defendant, dismissing the bill.
From such decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, which, on January 28, 1888, reversed the
decision of the District Court, and entered a decree in favor
of the government, setting aside and annulling the patent and
the survey upon which it was based; from which decree the
defendant appealed to this court.
.1.

George Hoadly for appellant

I. The United States has no interest in this controversy,
and did not in good faith institute and prosecute this suit.
This proposition is founded on the following letter fro.m
Attorney General Brewster, which is on file in the First
Judicial District Court of the Territory of New Mexico, and
appears in the record of the cause, not as part of the testimony, but as having been filed therein.
"DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTICE,

" WAShI NGTON, October 17, 1883.

"F. W. CLINCY, Esq.,
"1426 Corcoran St.,
"1Washington,-D. C.
"Sir. - To.your inquiry whether the United States will
pay the costs incurred in the case against the San Pedro and
Caffon del Agua Company, I answer that the United States
has no beneficial interest in the proceeding: It was instituted
at the instance of parties who claimed a right .to the possession of the lands. Upon their request special counsel were
appointed by this Department to commence and carry on the
suit, but they were not to be compensated by the United
States, and it was the understanding of this Department, as
in other similar cases, that whatever costs and expenses were

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

incurred in the preparation and conduct of the case should be
paid by the parties on whose petition the proceedings were
instituted. I must decline, therefore, for the government, to
pay said costs and expenses or any part thereof.
"Very respectfully,
"
x3ENJAInN IARRIS BREWSTER,
"Attorney General."
II. The prosecution of this suit is barred by laches.
It is quite true that the action was brought within seven
years after the issue of the patent, and it may be urged that.
the statute of limitations does not run against the United
States, and that the government cannot be guilty of laches.
United States v. JDalles .3filitary Road Co., 140 U. S. 599.
These considerations might have much force if the suit were
brought by the government for its own benefit. They have
no application to a case of this character. Unzited Stat.es v.
Des .Xoines i.avigation Co., 142 U. S. 510, is directly in point.
The parties for whose benefit this suit was brought might
have been beaten by the defence of lapse of time, had they
sued on their claims in their own names. Bryan v. Forsyth,
19 How. 334 ; ._ireehan v. Forsyth, 24 How. 175.
This question of laches was.properly raised by the demurrer
overruled by Chief Justice Axtell. lTollensak- v. Reiher, 115
U. S. 96; G,'ahar, v. Boston, 1artford & Erie Railroad Co.,
118 U. S. 161 ; Bryan v. KYales, 134 U. S. 126. This is therefore sufficient ground for reversing upon apeal.
-It is true that Chief Justice Axtell held with the defendants
on the merits, after overruling the demurrer; but upon appeal
the fact that the suit was brought too late was a sufficient
defence, even though the court might have differed with Chief
Justice Axtelt on the merits. The following authorities sustain
the application of the doctrine of laches to this case. Badger
v. Badger, 2 Wall 87; Sullivan v. Portland etc. Railroad, 94
U. S. 806; Brown v. Buena Mrsta County, 95 U. S. 157;
1 dder&v..Kimmel, 99 T. S. 201; Coddington v. Railroad
Company, 103 U. S. 409; Young v. Clarendon[
Township, 132

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

127

Argument for Appellant.

U. S. 340; Socijtg Fonci're v. Milliken, 135 U. S. 304: ; r ris v. -Haggi, 136 U. S. 386; Afackall v. Casilear,137 U. S.
556; Hanner v. Moulton, 138 U. S. 486; Cressey v. Meyer,
138 U. S. 525; Underwood v. -Dugan,139 U. S. 380; Boone
County v. Burlington & Missouri River Railroad, 139 U. S.
684; McLean v. Clapp, 141 U. S. 429; Galliker v. Cadwell,
145 U. S. 368.
1II. Much of the testimony of John B. Treadwell and the
exhibits attached thereto were incompetent and should have
been excluded, and for this reason alone, if there were no
other, the decree of the Supreme Court of the territory ought
to be reversed and this Court should proceed to final decree
upon the merits, or should remand to the Supreme Court of
the territory for further proceedings.
Of the importance of this proposition to this case this court
can entertain no doubt.
After the taking of testimony upon both sides had been
closed and the depositions published, and a day fixed for
hearing by order of the court, N. C. McFarland, then commissioner of the General Land Office, on the 14th day of
December, 1883, addressed a letter to John B. Treadwell,
examiner of surveys, Deming, New Mexico, instructing him
as follows, viz.: "To examine the said survey with-a view to
ascertaining whether the Griffin survey .was made in accordance with the call of the grant in order that you may be
enabled to testify in court as to the correctness or incorrectness
of said survey.
"In case you should find the survey to be incorrectly made,
you will ascertain the true location of the calls by such examination as may be found necessary, furnishing notes and
diagrams as evidence in the premises.
"It is desired that your examination be made with as little
publicity as possible, referring to this office direct for any
further information which may be needed.
"It may be necessary for you, in establishing the boundaries
of the grant, to take the testimony of witnesses who are
familiar with the country and competent to testify in this
particular, and should you need the services of an interpreter

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

you are authorized to employ one and such other assistants as
may be required.
"When your examination shall have been completed, which
must be at the earliest practicable date, you will advise this
office by telegraph and await further orders."
In obedience to this order, Treadwell went on the ground,
made a survey, and took the testimony of thirteen witnesses
by affidavits exparte.. The opinion of Chief Justice Long in
this case shows that of the witnesses whose affidavits were
thus procured by Treadwell, six had been examined and crossexamined and their testimony filed and published in the case.
In the application for leave to take this testimony no reference
was made to these exparte affidavits.
After the cause was brought to issue the defendant's solicitors filed their motion, to suppress all the testimony of
Treadwell and the exhibits filed therewith, "for the reason
that the same is in no way pertinent to the issue in this case;
that it is based upon hearsay; that said exhibits contain
affidavits of witnesses who have not been produced for crossexamination in this case, and contain certain sketches or
pictures, the authorship of which is not stated, and the truth
or correctness of whch is in no manner substantiated or
verified or even stated or referred to, and for other good
reasons apparent on the face of the said testimony." This
was overruled on the same day.
The defendants then further moved to exclude specified portions of the deposition, viz. : (1) such as was hearsay; (2) such
as was taken ex parte; (3) because it contained pictures without its appearing by whom they were made, or whether they
were faithful representations of anything. This was in like
manner overruled.
I respectfully submit that this motion is itself an exception
to the testimony. No form is necessary for an exception. All
that is needed is that there shall be a distinct objection made
to the reading of the testimony and its use by the court,
'brought to the court's knowledge, and this is shown in this
case. Estee's Pleadings, 3d. ed. by Pomeroy, 332.
When the cause came on to be heard in the Supreme Court,

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

129

Argument for Appellant.

objections were made at the hearing to the testimony of
Treadwell and the exhibits thereto.
This was done both orally and by brief, and this constitutes
a sufficient exception under the act of Congress regulating the
practice of appeals from territorial courts.
Then, after the decision, an application was made for a rehearing. The order of the court refusing this petition contains
the following: "The court

does now overrule such

petition and refuses to grant the same for reasons set forth in
an opinion by Chief Justice Long." The second reason assigned for rehearing was the following: "2. The court bases
its conclusion as to the location of said Sierra del Tuerto
largely upon exw arte affidavits taken by one John B. Treadwell without notice to any one or opportunity for cross-examination, improperly injected into the record of the court below
after all the.proofs on b6th sides were closed, which defendant
moved to strike out and suppress before the final hearing as
is shown by the record."
Chief Justice Long says, in the opinion which is thus incorporated into the order of the court that "the defendant has
filed a petition for rehearing assigning therein twelve reasons
why the same should be granted.

The

.

.

. second

points made, are but a repetition of those urged both
in oral argument and in the printed briefs and already fully
considered and determined. They present no new consideration and are fully met by the opinion."
I submit that the reference in the order, denying the petition
for rehearing, in this opinion filed by Chief Justice Long,
incorporates the opinion into the record, and that it is not
merely a "recorded and filed" opinion as required by the
rules of the Supreme Court of the Territory of INew Mexico,
or a certified opinion as required by the rules of this court, but
that it is thus by reference made part of the record of proceedings of the Supreme Court, with the same effect as if the
reasons referred to by the court in its order and stated therein
to have been "set forth in an opinion by Chief Justice Long,"
had been incorporated into the order itself.
I further submit that this reference to the opinion shows
VOL. CXLVI-9

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that both in the oral argument and in the printed briefs it was
objected at the hearing, that Treadwell's testimony and exe
pal'te affidavits were without cross-examination or notice to
any one improperly injected into the record in the court
below, and retained there in the face of the defendant's motion to strike out and suppress. This is the only form in
which the objedtion could have been made in the oral argument and the printed briefs.
And I also submit that the denial of the rehearing to which
the defendant was entitled upon the second ground above
stated by its counsel, is a sufficient objection and exception to
the testimony of Treadwell and the exparte affidavits attached
thereto.
_Mb. Assistant Attorney General Pai-ker and .fr. Thomas
Smith for appellee.
IiNn. JusTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, at the request of the
defendant made and certified a statement of the facts in the
case. This is in accordance with the act of April 7, 1874, 18
Stat. 27, which, in section 2, a section providing for the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of this court over the judgments and decrees of territorial courts, reads: "That on
appeal, instead of the evidence at large, a statement of the
facts of the case in the nature of a special verdict, and also
the rulings of the court on the admission or rejection of
evidence when excepted to, shall be made and certified by
the court below and transmitted to the Supreme Court, togetner with the transcript of the proceedings and judgment or
decree." *Construing this statute, it was held, in the case of
Idaho & Oregon. Land Company v. .Bradbuqry, 132 U. S.
509, 514, that "the authority of this court, on appeal from a
territorial court, is limited to determining whether the court's
findings of fact support its judgment or decree, and whether
there is any error in rulings, duly excepted to, on the ad-

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

131

Opinion of the Court.

mission or rejection of evidence, and does not extend to a
consideration of the weight of evidence or its sufficiency to
support the conclusions of the court. Stringfellow v. Cain , 99
U. S. 610; Cannon v. Pratt,99 U. S. 619; Neslin v. I/ells,
104: U. S. 428; HIeeht v. Boughton, 105 U. S. 235, 236; Gray
v. Howe, 108 U. S. 12; Filers v. Boatman, 111 U. S. 356;
Zeckendorf v. Johnson, 123 U. S. 617." fHence, notwithstanding the large volume of testimony taken and used in the court
below has been incorporated into the record sent to us, we
are not at liberty to review that testimony for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the findings in the statement of facts are
or are not in accordance with the weight of the evidence.
This narrows materially the range of our inquiry.
The first proposition of the appellant is that the United
States has no interest in the controversy, and did not in good
faith institute and prosecute this suit. This claim rests upon
the fact that in the record is found the following letter:
"DEPARTnIENT OF JUSTICE,
" WASHINGTON, October 17, 1883.
"F. W. CLANOY, Esq., 14:26 Corcoran St., Washington, D. C.
"SIR: To your inquiry whether the United States will pay
the costs incurred in the case against the San Pedro and
Cafion del Agua Company, I answer that the United States
has no beneficial interest in the proceeding. It was instituted at the instance of parties who claimed a right to the
possession of the llnds. Upon their request special counsel
were appointed by this Department to commence and carry
on the suit, but they were not to be compensated by the
United States, and it was the understanding of this Department, as in other similar cases, that whatever costs and
expenses were incurred in the preparation and conduct of the
case should be paid by the parties on whose petition the proceedings were instituted. I must decline, therefore, for the
government, to pay said costs and expenses or any part
thereof.
B wsAiN tlmluis BREWSTER,
"Very respectfully,
".Attorney General."

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Apparently. the attention of the court below was not called
to this letter, nor any action taken in reference to it. It
simply appears as a paper filed by some one in the clerk's
office, and by the clerk, of his own motion, incorporated
into the record. Mr. Olancy, to whom the letter was addressed, was, up to January, 1883, the clerk of the court in
which the suit was pending; subsequently, although, so far as
the record discloses, not till after October, 1883, he became
one of the counsel for defendant.
There are several reasons why the claim of the defendant
in this respect cannot be sustained. .In the first place, we
have ,ioassurance that the letter is genuine. Such a paper
does not prove itself. It was not offered in evidence. The
court took no notice of it. It was addressed, not to an officer
of the court or a counsel in the case, but to a stranger. The
clerk, by merely filing such a document, does not adjudicate
that it is in fact that which on its face it purports to be.
Again, even if it be regarded as the letter of the Attorney
General, it does not contain any such statement as precludes
the government from. maintaining this action. There is
nowhere an intimation that Attorney General MacVeagh,
the predecessor of the writer of the letter, when commencing
the suit, was not acting in the utmost good faith, and in the
belief that the government had a pecuniary interest in the
lands, or was under an obligation to third parties, which it
could protect only by setting aside this patent; and while the
letter declares that the United States has no beneficialinterest
in the controversy, it does not 'deny that the United States is
under obligation to other parties respecting the relief invoked;
and that, it is now settled, is sufficient for maintaining an
action to set aside a patent. United States v. San Jacinto
Tin, Co., 125 U. S. 273; Unitecl States v. Beebe, 127 U. S.

338, 342, in which latter case it was said: "And it may now
be accepted as settled that the United States can properly
proceed by billin equity to have a judicial decree of nullity
and an order of cancellation of a patent issued in mistake or
obtained by fraud where the government has a direct .interest
or is under an obligation respecting the relief invoked." See

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

133

Opinion of the Court.

also United States v. .fissouri, Kansas & Texas Railway, 141
U. S. 358, 380.
But, chiefly, the statement made by the Supreme Court
shows that in fact there were parties to whom the United
States was under obligation in respect to the relief invoked;
and, also, that the government had a direct pecuniary interest
in the relief sought. The application for a grant described a
tract of vacant land near the placer of San Francisco called
Placer del Tuerto, and distant from that town about one league,
more or less. This town, with a varying population of a few
hundred, perhaps thousands, of people was in existence before
the application of Ramirez for the grant, at the date of the
annexation of New Mexico to this country, and at the time of
the survey and patent. The inhabitants held their possessions
by the indefinite and unrecorded titles of dwellers In Mexican
villages. By the treaty of cession, as well as the general law in
respect to the acquisition of foreign territory, the United States
was bound to respect all existing rights, and among them the
rights and titles of these inhabitants. Yet the survey and patent included the town. It is true that the act of conformation,
as well as the patent, recites that it is only a relinquishment on
the part of the United States, and is not to affect the adverse
rights of any person, and it is very likely that the equitable
titles of the inhabitants could be established notwithstanding
the patent; but the government owed it to them not to burden
their equitable rights by an apparently adverse legal title, and
having been induced to do so through the fraudulent acts of
the patentee and his associates, it is discharging a moral obligation, at least, when it takes steps to set aside such patent,
and to relieve them from the apparent cloud on their title.
Further, the statement of facts finds that "Outside of the boundary line of the said Cafion del Agua
grant as granted to said IRamirez by the government- of
Mexico there was at the time when the supplemental bill in
this cause was filed a mining property of great value, known
as the Big Copper mine, yielding valuable quantities of both
copper and gold. There were Also numerous other mines
of the precious metals east of the Caion del Agua spring.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

These mines were and are upon a part of the public domain of
the United States, but within the lines of the said grant as
fraudulently extended by IRamirez and his confederates aforesaid. The defendant, as shown by its answer to the supplemental bill at the time of the filing of the same, actually occu-

pied and possessed said Big Copper mine, and was extracting
ore therefrom, claiming the legal right to do so as against the
United States, and was also in possession of the land upon
which said other mines were situated, and also "claiming the
right to the same. The defendant was not so in possession
under the mineral laws of the United States as a locator, or
claiming under or through any locator by virtue of such mining laws, but was in possession under and by means of the said
fraudulent survey, and was claiming under the agricultural
patent to Ramirez, the action of the surveyor general thereon,
the confirmation by Congress, the survey and patent thereunder, the lawful right to hold said mines and extract .therefrom the precious metals for its own use to the exclusion of
the United States therefrom, and, in defiance of the mineral
laws of the United States, predicating such claim of right upon
mesne conveyances from parties holding under and by virtue
of said patent.
"The possession of the said mine by the defendant as aforesaid, and the manner in which the same is being worked and
carried on, is such as to prevent other mining prospectors from
locating thereon or making any claim or acquiring any title
thereto by location and development under the mining
laws of the United States, and, if permitted to continue,
would enable the defendant, under claim of legal title,
which does not exist, to continuously extract therefrom large
quantities of valuable precious metals, and thus greatly to
lessen the value of said property, and to hinder and delay the
development thereof, and to prevent location thereon and
development under the mining laws of the United States.
The claim of said defendant constitutes a cloud upon a title
to the said mines and upon the right of the United States to
open the same to be prospected, located and developed as
mineral land, and deprives it of the revenue which would

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPA NY v. UNITED STATES. 135
Opinion of the Court.

otherwise accrue to it from such settlement and development."
The United States has therefore a pecuniary interest in maintaining this action, that it may recover possession of these
mines and secure to itself the revenue naturally derivable therefrom.
This last matter is also a sufficient answer to the second
point made by the appellant, and that is, that the prosecution
of this suit is barred by laches, for it is well settled that when
the government has a direct pecuniary interest in the subjectmatter of the litigation the defences of stale claim and laches
cannot be set up as a bar. United States v. Dalles .ilitary
Road Company, 140 U. S. 599, and cases cited in the opinion.
The third point of appellant is, that much of the testimony
of John B. Treadwell, and the exhibits attached thereto, were
incompetent and should have been excluded, and because they
were not the decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory
ought to be reversed. Mr. Treadwell was a special agent and
examiner of surveys for the Land Department. After this
suit had been commenced, he was directed by the Land Department to proceed to the disputed territory and make an
examination as to the survey. He did so, and besides making
surveys and taking photographic views, he also obtained
thirteen affidavits of witnesses, selected by himself, as to
boundaries, etc. When called as a witness he produced theseaffidavits as part of his testimony, and gave his conclusions as
to the proper boundaries of the grant, based partly at least
upon the information obtained from them. After his deposition containing these matters had been filed in the case, and
before the hearing in the District Court, two motions 'were
made by the defendant -one to strike out the entire deposition, and -the other to suppress parts of it. Both were overruled and no exception taken. The District Court, as
heretofore stated, found for the defendant, and entered a
decree dismissing the bill. An appeal having been taken to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, the entire record -was
transferred to that court. There, no new motion to strike out
this deposition, or any part of'it, was presented, nor were the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

two motions made in the District Court renewed in the Supreme Court, or action asked of that court thereon.
Obviously
the defendant, relying upon its success in the District Court,
with this testimony in the case and before the court, did not
deem the matter of sufficient importance either to renew the
motions made in the District Court, or to file additional ones,
and so let the case pass to the consideration of the Supreme
Court with all the testimony, including this deposition, unchallenged. But our inquiry is limited to the rulings of the
Supreme Court of the Territory; it is its judgment which we
are reviewing. By the appeal the case was transferred as a
whole from the District Court to the Supreme Court. The rulings of the former court did not bind or become those of the
latter, either as to the admission or rejection of testimony, or
the decree to be entered. All the testimony taken and filed
in the one court was spread before the other, and was apparently proper for its consideration. If the defendant had
wished to narrow the examination of that court to any portion of the testimony, it should by appropriate motion to it
have challenged the supposed objectionable parts. Counsel,
appreciating this necessity of the case, has endeavored to show
that the Supreme Court did in fact rule on the admissibility
of this testimony; but we think his contention is not borne
out by the record. Certainly no new motion was filed in the
Supreme Court, or any entry made of a renewal of the motions in the District Court or of a decision thereon; and if
error is to be predicated upon any ruling of the lower court,
it would seem that the ruling should affirmatively and distinctly appear. And in this connection notice may well be
taken of Rule 13 of this court :" In all cases of equity .
heard in this court no objection shall hereafter be allowed to
be taken to the admissibility of any deposition, deed, grant or
other exhibit found in the record as evidence, unless objection
was taken thereto in the court below and entered of record;
but the same shall otherwise be deemed to have been admitted
by consent."
Upon what grounds does counsel contend that the Supreme
Court did rule upon this matter? In the order of the court.
refusing the petition for rehearing is the following:

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES. 137
Opinion of the Court.
.
does now overrule such petition and
"The court
refuses to grant the same for reasons set forth in an opinion
by Chief Justice Long."
This was the second reason assigned for rehearing:
"2. The court bases its conclusion as to the location of said
Sierra del Tuerto largely upon exwparte affidavits taken by one
John B. Treadwell, without-notice to any one or opportunity
for cross-examination, improperly injected into the record of
the court below after all the proofs on both sides were closed,
which defendant moved to strike out and suppress before the
final hearing, as is shown by the record."
And in the opinion is this statement:
"The defendant has filed a petition for rehearing, assigning
therein twelve reasons why the same should be granted. The
second . . . points made are but a repetition of
those urged both in oral argument and in the printed briefs,
and already fully considered and determined. They present
no new consideration and are fully met by the opinion."
But this does not show that any motion was made in the
Supreme Court or any ruling had thereon. The second reason
assigned is, that the court based its conclusion upon this improper testimony. It is true reference is made to a motion to
suppress, but it is only by way of description of -the improper
matter, and the motion referred to is one "shown by the
record," and the only such motion is the one made in the
District Court.
The record shows none in the Supreme
Court.
Again, it is insisted that the denial of the rehearing, one of
the grounds therefor being that already stated, is in itself a
sufficient objection and exception to the testimony. But when
the petition for rehearing was filed, the case had been decided.
A petition for rehearing is no more significant than a motion
for a new trial, which, as well settled, presents no question
for review in this court. Further, it would be strange if a
case could be submitted on certain testimony and decided, and
then the defeated party could by motion for a new trial or
petition for rehearing compel the striking out of a part of that
testimony, and thus a retrial of the case. By not challenging

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the objectionable testimony until after the decision, he waives
his right to challenge it at all.
Again, after the decision the defendant made application
for a statement of the facts of the case, and also the rulings of
the court on the admission and rejection of the evidence, to be
transferred to this court, which motion was consented to by
the United States, and a statement of facts prepared. Thereafter, the defendant moved to have included in such statement
the testimony of Treadwell, the rulings of the District Court
on the motions, and also the rulings of the Supreme Court
upon said testimony, which motion was denied, and on complaint of the defendant that the statement did not contain
any rulings of that court on the admission or rejection of
evidence, and especially with respect to the testimony of John
B. Treadwell, and' the exhibits filed therewith, the Supreme
Court said: "The motion for an additional finding touching
the admission of the deposition, map, and exhibits of John 3.
Treadwell has been considered. The appeal was taken by the
United States. There being no cross appeil by the appellee,
we decline to review the action of the court below, as that is
not before us on this appeal, and overrule said motion and
decline any action upon it for reasons stated."
Whatever may be thought of the reason given by the
Supreme Court, the fact appears from this language that
present action only was invoked, which was action after the
decision; and, further, that such action was only in reference
to a review of the ruling of the District Court. Indeed, not
only is the silence of the record conclusive against any motion
in the Supreme Court to exclude the testimony, or any action
by that court in the way of. exclusion, but also the fair inference, from all the matters presented by counsel, is that after
the decision it was sought to get from the Supreme Court only
some review of the ruling Qf the District Court on the motion
to exclude the testimony. We cannot review the action of
the District Court, and no action was taken by the Supreme
Court prior to the decision. The appellant can, therefore,
take nothing by this contention.
Again, it is insisted that upon the facts of the case the

SAN PEDRO &c. COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.. 139
Opinion ol the Court.

appellant is entitled to a reversal. But clearly this is untenable. The statement of facts is plain, to the effect that
the survey was inaccurate and obtained by fraud. The force
of this is not obviated by the fact that Griffin, the surveyor,
was not found to have been a party to the fraud. The wrong
is the wrong of the patentee; and the fact, if it be a fact, that
he did not secure the wrongful assistance of all the officers of
the government connected with the survey, does not make his
wrong any the less. It may be, as Chief Justice Long intimates, that Griffin, the surveyor, was innocent; that he was
misled by the misrepresentations and fraudulent acts of others;
but if it be, as found by this statement of facts, that the survey
ivas erroneous, that it and the patent were obtained by fraud,
and that the patentee was a party to such fraud, that is
enough to sustain a decree setting aside the survey and the
patent, and leaving the defendant to whatever rights may
exist under the original confirmation.
Finally, it is insisted that the defendant was a bonz fide
purchaser; but the findings of fact do not warrant this
conclusion. The president of the company, and a large stockholder, together with others interested, visited the property
before the purchase. They were warned of the adverse
claims. They examined the land and could easily perceive
the situation of some of the points named in the description,
and also the presence Within the limits of the patent of this
town of San Francisco. Indeed, it is distinctly stated in the
findings that "the said defendant, through its said company,
had notice, in fact, by the means aforesaid, of the adverse
claim to said grant, and in addition thereto information
sufficient to put it on inquiry as to the fraud alleged in the
bill of complaint."
Undoubtedly, upon the facts as found and stated by the
court, the defendant was not entitled to hold as a bonafide
purchaser.
These are all the matters complained of, and in them finding
no error, the decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
.Affirmed.

