IN

RE ENGLES, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

THE CHEF JUSTICE: The motion to dismiss is granted upon
the authority of Richmond & -Danville Railroad v. Thouron,
134 U. S. 45; Gurnee v. Patrick Uounty, 137 U. S. 141;
.McLish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661; Ohicago, St. Paul &c. Railway v. Roberts, 141 U. S. 690.
Dismissed.

in re ENGLES, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted November 28, 1892.- Decided December 5, 1892.

On the authority of In re Fassett, 142 U. S. 479, the court refuses to grant
a writ of prohibition to restrain the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of New York from taking jurisdiction of a petition of the owner of a barge for the benefit of the limited liability act,
Rev. Stat. §§ 4283 to 4285, and from further proceedings thereunder.

TnE petitioner filed her petition in this court, making the
following averments:
I. That theretofore, on the 25th day of September, 1891,
The Myers Excursion and Navigation Company filed its petition in the District Court of the United States, as owners of
the barge Republic, for a limitation of liability, a copy of which
is hereto attached, marked Exhibit A, and the usual monition
was ordered by said District Court.
II. On the return day of said order this petitioner filed her
answer to said.petition, a copy of which is hereto attached,
marked Exhibit B.
III. That thereafter, on the 21st day of November, 1892,
said cause came on to be heard before the District Court, aforesaid, on exceptions to the jurisdiction of said court, and on
motion of your petitioner to dismiss the same for want of jurisdiction, yet the said court overruled your petitioner's exceptions and denied said motion to dismiss, and ordered said cause
to proceed, as will appear by a copy of said order hereto attached, marked Exhibit C. Wherefore, the said Elizabeth
Engles respectfully requests that a writ of prohibition may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

issued out of this Honorable Court to the Judge of the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New
York, prohibiting him from further proceeding with the petition for limited liability aforesaid, and requiring him to dismiss
the said proceedings.
Exhibit A set forth that the Excursion Company was the
owner of the barge Republic; that in August, 1891, the barge
being strong, stanch and seaworthy, and well manned and
equipped, conveyed an excursion party from Brooklyn to Cold
Spring grove, on Long Island ; that while at the latter place
a storm struck the barge with such force that the roof of the
upper deck was carried away, and other injuries inflicted,
thirteen persons being killed, and many injured; that these
losses and injuries were due to inevitable accident, but that
nevertheless many suits had been brought in the Supreme
Court of New York against the company for damages suffered by reason of the injury, but that the barge had not been
libelled in admiralty; that the value of the barge was not sufficient to make compensation to all who bad commenced suit,
and that therefore the petitioners prayed for an appraisement,
a monition to all claiming to prove their claims, and an order
restraining the prbsecution of the suits.
Exhibit B was as follows:
The separate answer of Elizabeth Engles respectfully shows:
I. That she claims damages against the Myers Excursion
and Navigation Company in the sum of $5000, and has duly
presented her claim pursuant to an order of this Court to the
Commissioner Richard P. Moore, Esq., under oath, within the
time limited and at the place required by order of the court.
IiL That respondent is one of the parties named in schedule
attached to petition herein on which the order of September
28, 1891, was granted.
III. Respondent denies, upon information and belief, the
allegation in the third paragraph of petition, in words as
follows:
"Said barge was fully manned and thoroughly equipped for
the trip; she was tight, stanch, strong and seaworthy in all
respects."

IN RE ENGLES, Petitioner.
Counsel for Petitioner.

IV. The respondent denies, on information and belief, the

entire fifth paragraph of the petition.
V. The respondent denies that *the barge Republic was a
seagoing vessel, and also denies that she was used or employed
in inland navigation, and submits to the court that it appears
upon the face of the petition that the petitioners are not
-

embraced within the provisions 4283-4289 Rev. Stat.

Exhibit C, entitled in the cause, and dated November 21,
1892, was as follows: This cause coming on to be heard this
day on the petition of The Myers Excursion and Navigation
Company, filed September 25, 1891, and the answers of Elizabeth Engles and others, on exceptions in the answers to the
jurisdiction of this court to proceed with said petition, and on
motion by the respondents to dismiss the proceedings for want
of jurisdiction;
On hearing .21r. Raphael J. .-Moses, Ji., of counsel for Elizabeth Engles and others, and ifesrs. Guggenheimer & Unter-

meyer, of counsel for Nellie Schaler, and Mr.Fernando Solinger, of counsel for Catharine Kuntz and others, in support
of the exceptions to the jurisdiction and of the motion to dismiss, and .X?-. Putnam, of counsel for the petitioners, in opposition,
On motion of -Mr.Putnam for the petitioners,
It is ordered, that the exceptions to the jurisdiction be overruled, and the motion to dismiss be denied, and it is further
ordered that the cause proceed.
)lfr. Raphael J. Zioses, Jr., for the petitioner.
No one opposing.
TH CHIEF JUSTICE: Leave to file a petition for a writ of
prohibition is denied upon the authority of In re .Fassett,142

U. S. 479, 484, and cases there cited.
Denied.

