JOY v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
Statement of the Case.

verdict for the defendant, and reversed the judgment of the
court below, and remanded the cases for further proceedings
in accordance with its opinion. The petitioners prayed this
court to issue writs of certiorarito the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the eighth judicial circuit, commanding
that court to certify to this court the record of its proceedings
in the causes so pending and determined in that court. Copies
of the record of the said causes in said Circuit Court of Appeals were filed and made a part of the applications.
.Mr. C. C. IVourse for the petitioners.

.Xr. W. C. Goudy opposing.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The petitions for writs of certiorarito
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the eighth circuit are denied.
.McLish v. Rof, 141 U..S. 661; Rice v. Sanger, 144 U. S. 197;
Meagher v. Afinnesota Thresher Manu.facturing Co., 145
I. S. 608.
Denied.

JOY v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 1014. Submitted November 28, 1892.-Decided December 5, 1892.

This court has no jurisdiction of an appeal from a judgment of a Circuit
Court remanding to a state court a cause which had been improperly
removed from it.
MOTION to dismiss. On behalf of the motion it was stated
that the suit was originally brought in the Court of Common
Pleas of Lucas County, Ohio, by the Adelbert College against
the Toledo, Wabash and Western Railroad Company and
other defendants, including the -plaintiffs appellants; that on
the 2d of December, 1890, petitions for its removal to the
Circuit Court of the United States were filed by each of the
present appellants on the ground that, "from prejudice or local

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for the Motion.

influence this defendant will not be able to obtain justice in
the said state court situated in the cofinty of Lucas, or in
any other state court in which the said defendant may have
the right to remove said cause on account of such prejudice
or local influence"; that thereupon an order of removal was
made, and the record was filed in the Circuit Court January
21, 1891; that thereupon motions were made in the Circuit
Court to remand the cause to the Court of Common Pleas;
that the motions having been submitted upon briefs, an opinion was filed by Jackson, Circuit Judge, granting the same,
and an order was entered in the Circuit Court of the United
States finding that that court was without jurisdiction to
entertain and grant the said petitions for removal, and that
the cause had been illegally removed from the Court of Common Pleas of Lucas County, and it was accordingly remanded
to that court for further proceedings.
The appellants Joy and others, by their solicitors, excepted,
and prayed an appeal to this court, which was allowed and
ordered.
On the 10th day of November, 1891, there was ified in the
Clerk's office of the Circuit Court of the United States, for
the Northern District of Ohio, Western Division, a certificate
of the Circuit Judge, to the effect that "the court is of opinion
that the citizenship of the various parties hereto as shown by
the record and affidavits filed herein is such that this court
has no jurisdiction of the cause, and on this ground alone
the court granted said motion and orders said cause :to be
remanded to the said Court of Common Pleas of Lucas
County," whereupon said moving defendants having given
notice of appeal on said question of jurisdiction, made application to the court for a certificate, which was accordingly
granted. An assignment of errors was filed on the same day
in the same court.
.Xr. George Hoadly and Mr. John C. F. Gardner for the
motion.
No one opposing.

IN

RE ENGLES, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

THE CHEF JUSTICE: The motion to dismiss is granted upon
the authority of Richmond & -Danville Railroad v. Thouron,
134 U. S. 45; Gurnee v. Patrick Uounty, 137 U. S. 141;
.McLish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661; Ohicago, St. Paul &c. Railway v. Roberts, 141 U. S. 690.
Dismissed.

in re ENGLES, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted November 28, 1892.- Decided December 5, 1892.

On the authority of In re Fassett, 142 U. S. 479, the court refuses to grant
a writ of prohibition to restrain the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of New York from taking jurisdiction of a petition of the owner of a barge for the benefit of the limited liability act,
Rev. Stat. §§ 4283 to 4285, and from further proceedings thereunder.

TnE petitioner filed her petition in this court, making the
following averments:
I. That theretofore, on the 25th day of September, 1891,
The Myers Excursion and Navigation Company filed its petition in the District Court of the United States, as owners of
the barge Republic, for a limitation of liability, a copy of which
is hereto attached, marked Exhibit A, and the usual monition
was ordered by said District Court.
II. On the return day of said order this petitioner filed her
answer to said.petition, a copy of which is hereto attached,
marked Exhibit B.
III. That thereafter, on the 21st day of November, 1892,
said cause came on to be heard before the District Court, aforesaid, on exceptions to the jurisdiction of said court, and on
motion of your petitioner to dismiss the same for want of jurisdiction, yet the said court overruled your petitioner's exceptions and denied said motion to dismiss, and ordered said cause
to proceed, as will appear by a copy of said order hereto attached, marked Exhibit C. Wherefore, the said Elizabeth
Engles respectfully requests that a writ of prohibition may be

