202

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Parties.

* SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANYv. DENTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No.403. Submitted November 7,1892.-Decided November 21, 1892.
Under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, as corrected by tha act of August
13, 1888, c. 866, a corporation incorporated in one State only, and doing
business in another State, is not thereby liable to be sued in a Circuit
Court of the United States, held in the latter State.
The want of the requisite citizenship of parties to give jurisdiction to a
Circuit Court of the United States, when apparent on the face of the
petition, may be taken advantage of by demurrer.
An objection to the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States,
for want of the requisite citizenship of the parties, is not waived by
filing a demurrer for the special and single purpose of objecting to the
jurisdiction, or by answering to the merits upon that demurrer being
overruled.
The right of a corporation, sued in a Circuit Court of'the United States,
to contest its jurisdiction for want of the requisite citizenship of the
parties, is not affected by a statute of the State in which the court is
held, requiring a foreign corporation, before doing business In the State,
to file with the secretary of state a copy of its charter, with a resolution
authorizing service of process to be made on any officer or agent engaged
in its business within the State, and agreeing to be subject to all the
provisions of the statute, one of which is that the corporation shall not
remove any suit from a court of the State into the Circuit Court of the
United States; nor by doing business and appointing an agent within
the State under that statute.
A statute of a State, which makes an appearance in behalf of a defendant,
although in terms limited to the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction
of the court, a waiver of immunity from jurisdiction'by reason of nonresidence, is not applicable to actions in a Circuit Court of the United
States, held within the State, under Rev. Stat., § 914.

MOTION to dismiss or to affirm.

The case is stated in the

opinion.

2k. -D.A. AtcKnight for the motioia.
2k. J. Hubley Ashton ppposing.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. DENTON.

203

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JuSTiCE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought January 29, 1889, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Texas,
against the Southern Pacific Company, by Elizabeth Jane
Denton, to recover damages to the amount of $4970, for the
death of her son by the defendant's negligence near Paisano
in the county of Presidio on January 31, 1888. The petition
alleged that "the plaintiff is a citizen of the State of Texas,
and resides in the county of Red River, in said State; that
the defendant is a corporation duly incorporated under the
laws of the State of Kentucky, is a citizen of the State of
Kentucky, and is and at the institution of this suit was a resident of El Paso County, in the State of Texas;" that at the
day aforesaid and ever since "the defendant was and is
engaged in the business of running and propelling cars for
the conveyance of freight and passengers over the line of railway extending eastwardly from the city of El Paso, Texas,
into and through the counties of El Paso and Presidio and
the city of San Antonio, all of the State of Texas; that the
defendant is now doing business as aforesaid, and has an agent
for the transaction of its business in the city and county of
El Paso, Texas, to wit, W. E. Jessup." The county of Red
River is in the Eastern District, and the counties of El Paso
and Presidio as well as the county of Bexar in which is the
city of San Antonio, are in the Western District of Texas.
Act of February 24, 1879, c. 97, §§ 2, 3; 20 Stat. 318.
The defendant, by leave of court, filed "an answer or
demurrer," "for the special purpose and no other, unti the.
question herein raised is decided, of objecting to the jurisdiction of this court," demurring and excepting to the petition,
because upon the allegations above quoted "it appears that
this suit ought, if maintained at all in the State of Texas, to
be brought in the district of the residence of the plaintiff, that
is to say, in the Eastern District of Texas ; and the defendant
prays judgment whether this court has jurisdiction, and it asks
to be dismissed With its costs; but, should the court overrule
this demurrer and exception, th0 deifendant" then asks time

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and leave to answer to the merits, though excepting to the
-action of the court in overruling said demurrer."
The court overruled the demurrer, and allowed a bill of
exceptions tendered by the defendant, which stated that the
defendant by the demurrer raised the question of the jurisdiction 9f the court; "and that the court, having inspected the
same, as well as the pleadings of the plaintiff, and it appearing
therefrom that the plaintiff is alleged to be a citizen of Texas,
residifg in Red River County, in the eastern judicil district
of said State and that the defendant is a corporation created and
existing under and by virtue of the laws of Kentucky, and is a
citizen of that State, but operating a line of railway, doing
business in and having an agent on' whom process may be
served in the county and judicial district in which this suit
is pending, and the court, being of opinion that the facts
alleged show this cause to be in the district of the residence
of the defendant, and that it ought to take cognizance of the
same, overruled said demurrer.".
The defendant, after its demurrer had been overruled, answered to the merits, and a trial by jury was had, resulting in
a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff in the sum of S4515.
The defendant, on May 10, 1890, sued out this writ of error
onthe question of jurisdiction only, under the act of February
25, 1889, c. 236; 25 Stat. 693. The plaintiff has now moved
to dismiss the writ of error or to affirm the judgment, and the
motion has been submitted on briefs under Rules 6 and 32 of
this court.
By the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, as corrected by the
act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, "No person shall be arrested in
one district for trial in another in any civil action before a
Circuit or District Court; and no civil suit shall be brought
before.either of said courts against any person by. any original
process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof
he is an inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded only
on the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States suits shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant." 24: Stat. 552;
25 Stat. 434.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. DENTON.

205

Opinion of the Court.

This is a case "where the jurisdiction is founded only on the
fact that the action is between citizens of different States."
The question whether under that act the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas had jurisdiction of the case is a question involving the jurisdiction of that
court, which this court is empowered, by the act of February
25, 1889, c. 236, to review by writ of error, although the judgment below was for less than five thousand dollars.
The allegations made in the petition, and admitted by the
demurrer, bearing upon this question, are that the plaintiff
was a citizen of Texas and resided in the Eastern District
thereof, and that the defendant was a corporation incorporated
by the law of Kentucky and a citizen of that State, and was a
resident of the Western District of Texas, doing business and
having an agent in this district. The necessary legal effect of
these allegations is that the defendant was a corporation and
a citizen of Kentucky only, doing business in the Western
District of Texas; and consequently could not be compelled
to answer to an action at law in a Circuit Court of the United
States, except either in the State of Kentucky, in which it was
incorporated, or in 'the Eastern District of Texas, in which the
plaintiff, a citizen of Texas, resided. It has long been settled
that a'n allegation that a party is a "resident" does not show
that he is a "citizen," within the meaning of the Judiciary
Acts; and to hold otherwise in this case would be to construe
the petition as alleging that the defendant was a citizen of the
same State with the plaintiff, and thus utterly defeat the jurisdiction. The case is governed by the decision of this court at
the last term, by which it was adjudged that the act of 1887,
having taken away the alternative, permitted in the earlier
acts, of suing a person, in the district "in which he shall be
found," requires an action at law, the jurisdiction of which is
founded only upon its being between citizens of different States,
to be brought in the State of which one is a citizen, and in the
district therein of which he is an inhabitant and resident; and
that a corporation cannot, for this purpose, be considered a
citizen or a resident of a State in which it has not been incorporated. Shaw v. Quincy .Xining Co., 145 U. S. 441, 449, 453.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be assumed that the exemption from being sued in
any other district might be waived by the corporation, by appearing generally, or by answering to the merits of the action,
without first objecting to the jurisdiction. St. Louis & San,
FranciscoRailway v. .cBride, 141 U. S. 127; ] 'xas & Pacift Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593.
lBut in the present case there was no such waiver. The
want of jurisdiction, being apparent on the face of the petition, might be taken advantage of by demurrer, and no plea
in abatement was necessary. Coal Co. v. Blatchfo' d, 11 Wall.
172. The defendant did file a demurrer, for the special and
single purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction; and it was
only after that demurrer had been overruled, and the defendant had excepted to the overruling thereof, that an answer to
the merits was filed. :Neither the special appearance for the
purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction, nor the answer to the
merits after that objection had been overruled, was a waiver
of the objection. The case is within the principle of [Zarlenes.s
v. Hryde, in which Mr. Justice Field, speaking for this court,
said: "Illegality in a proceeding by which jurisdiction is to
be obtained is in no case waived by the appearance of the
defendant for the purpose of calling the attention of the court
to such irregularity; nor is the objection waived when being
urged it is overruled, and the defendant is thereby compelled
to answer. He is not coiisidered -as abandoning his objeation,
because he does not submit to further proceedings without
contestation. It is only where he pleads to the merits in the
first instance, without insisting upon the illegality, that the
objection is deemed to be waived." 98 U. S. 476, 479.
The case at bar is not affected by either of the statutes of
Texas on which the counsel for the defendant in error relies.
He contends that the plaintiff in error had consented to be
sued in the Western District of Texas by doing business and
appointing an agent there under the statute of Texas of 1887,
c. 128, requiring a foreign corporation, desiring to transact
business in the State, "to file with the Secretary of State a
certified copy of its articles of incorporation, duly attested,
.accompanied by a resolution of its board of directors or stock-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. DENTON.

207

Opinion of the Court.

holders, authorizing the filing thereof, and also authorizing
service of process to be made upon any of its officers or agents
in this State engaged in transacting its business, and requesting the issuance to such corporation of a permit to transact
business in this State, said application to contain a stipulation
that said permit shall be subject to each of the provisions of
this act," one of which was that any foreign corporation sued
in a court of the State, which should remove the case into a
court of the United States held within the State, "for the
cause that such corporation is a non-resident of this State or
a resident of another State from that of the adverse party,
or of local prejudice against such corporation, shall thereupon
forfeit and render null and void any permit issued or granted
to such corporation to transact business in this State." General Laws of Texas of 1887, pp. 116, 117.
But that statute, requiring the corporation, as a condition
precedent to obtaining a permit to do business within the
State, to surrender a right and privilege secured to it by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, was unconstitutional and void, and could give no validity or effect to any
agreement or action of the corporation in obedience to its
provisions. Insurance Co. v. )lforse, 20 Wall. 445; Barron V.
Burnside, 121 U. S. 186; Texas -Land Co. v. TForsAam," 76
Texas, 556. Moreover, the supposed agreement of the corporation went no further than to stipulate that process might
be served on any officer or agent engaged in its business
within the State. It did not undertake to declare the corporation to be a citizen of the State, nor (except by the vain
attempt to prevent removals into the national courts) to alter
the jurisdiction of apy court as defined bylaw. The~agreement, if valid, might subject the corporation, after due service
on its agent, to the jurisdiction of any appropriate court of
the State. -Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404. It
might likewise have subjected the corporation to the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States held within the
State-so long as the Judiciary Acts of the United States
allowed it to be sued in the district in which it was found.
Exparte Shollenberger,96 U. S. 369; _New England ns. Co. 'v.

OCTOBER TERIAT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

WoodwortA, 111 U. S. 138; I re Louisville tTnderwriter.s, 1341
U. S. 488. But such an agreement could not, since Congress
(as held in Shaw v. Quincy Xl£ining Co. above cited) has made
citizenship of the State, with residence in the district, the sole
test of jurisdiction in this class of cases, estop the corporation
to set up non-compliance with that test, when sued in a Circuit
Court of the United States.
It is further contended, on behalf of the defendant in error,
that the case is controlled by those provisions of the statutes
of Texas, which make an appearance in behalf of a defendant,
although in terms limited to the purpose of objecting to the
jurisdiction of the court, a waiver of immunity from the jurisdiction by reason of non-residence; and which have been held
by this court not to violate the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, forbidding any State to
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law. Rev. Stats. of Texas of 1879, arts. 1241-1241;
York v. State, 73 Texas, 651; S. C. nom. York v. Texas, 137
U. S. 15;'.R.zFeman v.'TFootters, 138 U. S.285 ; St. Louis &e.
.?ailway v. lI7itley, 77 Texas, 126 ; -,EtnaIns. Co. v. Ianna,
81 Texas, 487.
But the question in this case is not of the validity of those
provisions as applied to actions in the courts of the State, but
whether they can be held applicable to actions in the courts
of the United States. This depends on the true construction
of the -act of Congress, by which "the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than
equity and admiralty causes, in the Circuit and District Courts,
shall conform, as near as. may be, to the practice, pleadings,
and forms and modes of proceeding, existing at the time in
like causes in the courts of record of the State within which
such Circuit or District Courts are held." IRev. Stats. § 914;
act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, § 5; 17 Stat. 197.
In one of the earliest cases that arose under this act, this
court said: "The conformity is required to be 'as near as may
be'-not as near as may be possible, or as near as may be
practicable. This indefiniteness may have been suggested by
a purpose: it devolved upon the judges to be affected the

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. DENTON.

209

Opinion of the Court.
duty of construing and deciding, and gave them the power to
reject, as Congress doubtless expected they would do, any
subordinate provision in such State statutes which, in their
judgment, would unwisely encumber the administration of
the law, or tend to defeat the ends of justice, in their tribunals." Indianapolis& St. Louis Railroad v. Horst, 93 U. S.
291, 300, 301.
Under this act, the Circuit Courts of the United States follow the practice of the courts of the State in regard to the
form and order of pleading, including the 'manner in which
objections may be taken to the jurisdiction, and the question
whether objections to the jurisdiction and defences on the
merits shall be pleaded successively or together. Delaware
County v. Diebold Safe Co., 133 U. S. 473, 488; .Roberts v.
Lewis, 144 U. S. 653. But the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of the United States has been defined and limited by
the acts of Congress, and can be neither restricted nor enlarged
by the statutes of a State. Toland v.Sprague, 12 Pet. 300,
328; Cowles v. Mercer County, 7 Wall. 118; Railway Co. v.
WiTitton, 13 Wall. 270, 286; Phe ps v. Oaks, 117 U. S.236,
239. And whenever Congress has legislated upon any matter
of practice, and prescribed a definite rule for the government
of its own courts, it is to'that extent exclusive of the legislation of the State upon the same matter- Ex -parte Fisk, 113
U. S. 713, 721; I1hitford v. Clark Couhty, 119 U. S.522.
The acts of Congress, prescribing in 'what districts suits
between citizens or corporations of different States' shall be
brought, manifest.the intention of .Congress that such suits
shall be brought and tried in such a district only, and that no
person or corporation shall be compelled to answer to such a
suit in any other district. Congress cannot have intended
that it should be within the power of a State by its statutes
to prevent a defendant, sued in a Circuit Court of the United
States in a district in which Congress has said that he shall
not be compelled 'to answer, from obtaining a determination
of that matter by that court in the first instance, and by this
court on writ of error. To conform to such statutes of a
State would "unwisely encumber the administration of the
vOL. cx.LvI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

law," as well as "tend to defeat the ends of justice," in the
national tribunals. The necessary conclusion is that the provisions referred to, in the practice act of the State of Texas,
have no application to actions in the courts of the United
States.
Judgment 7eversed, and case 'emanded with directions to
'render judgment for the defendant uipon the demurrer
to the _petition.

ROOT v. THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 39.

Argued November 7,1892.-Decided

November 21, 1892.

an inventor applied, September 3d, 1881, for letters patent for an " improvement in the construction of cable railways," the invention consisting in the employment of a connecting tie for the rails, and supports
for the slot irons, by which both are rigidly supported from the tie and
united to each other, the ties or frames being embedded in concrete, and
the rails, the slot irons and the tube being thus connected in the same
structure. The invention was conceived in 1876, and used by the inventor in constructing a cable road, which was put into use in April,
1878, and of which he was superintendent until after lie applied for the
patent, which was granted in August, 1882; Held, on the facts,
(1) The use of the invention was not experimental;
(2) The inventor reserved no future control over it;
(3) He had no expectation of making any material changes in it, and
never suggested or made a change after the structure went into
use, and never made an examination with a view of seeing whether
it was defective, or could be improved;
(4) The use was such a public use as to defeat the patent;
(5) The case of .Elizabeth v. .Pavement Co., 97 U. S.126, considered, and
the present case held not to fall within its principles.

Tnis was a suit in equity, brought July 12, 1886, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New Ycrk, by Henry Root against the Third Avenue Rail-

