OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

Nor can our, jurisdiction be sustained under the second section of the act of March 3, 1885, providing that the limit of
85000 shall not apply to any case "in which is drawn in
question the validity of a . . . statute of or an authority
exercised under the United States;" since this refers to an
authority exercised or claimed in favor of one of the parties to
the cause, the validity of which was put in issue on the trial
of the case, and not to the validity of an authority exercised
by the United States in removing the fence pursuant to the
judgment of the court. If the latter were the true construction, then every case in which the court issued an injunction or
an execution might be said to involve the validity of a statute,
or an authority exercised, under the Ufiited States, since it is
by virtue of such authority that the marshal executes the
writ. No question is raised here as to the validity of a statute,
but merely as to the application of the statute to this case.
The appeal is, therefore,
Dismissed.

McGOURKEY

v. TOLEDO AND OHIO
RAILWAY COMPANY.

CENTRAL

AI.PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIHE
NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 35. Argued November 4, 1892. -Decided

December 19, 1892.

On the 2d of April, 1884, 1M. filed a petition to intervene in a suit which had
been commenced January 2, 1884, for the purpose of foreclosing a mortgage dn a railroad. A receiver had been appointed and was In possession of the road and roiling stock. - The intervenor claimed title to a
large part of the latter. The petition prayed (1) that the receiver perform all the covenants of the lease, and pay all sums due, etc. ; (2) or
that he be directed to deli'er to petitioner the rolling stock in, order that
the same might be sold; (3)that he be directed to file a statement of the
number of miles run, and of the sums received for the use of such rolling stock; (4) that it be referred to an examiner to take testimony and
report ibhe value of the use of such rolling stock While in the custody of
the receiver, and that the receiver be directed io pay the amount justly

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

537

Statement of the Case.
due, etc. On the 10th of December, 1884, a decree of foreclosure and sale
of the railroad and after acquired property was entered. On the 9th of
June, 1885, a decree was rendered upon the intervening petition ordering
the receiver to deliver up to the petitioner certain cars and locomotives
to be sold. On the 14th of August, 1886, answers were filed, under leave,
to the intervening petition, setting up title in the respdcidents to the
rolling stock. The court found against the intervenor as to most of the
stock, and his petition Wvs dismissed. Held, that the decree of June 9,
1885, was not a final judgmnent.
If a court make a decree fixing the rights and liabilities of the parties and
thereupon refer the case to a master for a ministerial purpose only, and
no further proceedings in court are contemplated, the decree is final;
but If it refer the case to him as a subordinate court, and for a judicial
purpose, the decree is not final.
The cases respecting final and interlocutory judgments, and the distinction
between them, reviewed.
Any arrangement by which directors of a corporation become interested
adversely to the corporation in contracts with it, or organize or take
stock in companies or associations for the purpose of entering into contracts with the corporation, or become parties to any undertaking to
secure to themselves a share in the profits of any transactions to which
the corporation'is a party, are looked upon with suspicion.
On all the facts in this case, as detailed in the opinion of the court, infra,
Held:
(1) That the contracts with the trustee for the holders of the car-trust
certificates was voidable at the election of the corporation;
(2) That it was in law a purchase by the railway of the rolling stock
in question;
(3) That the device of the certificates was inoperative to vest the legal
title in the petitioner, or to prevent the lien of the railway mortgage from attaching to it, or to prevent the delivery of the rolling
stock to the road;
(4) That being the property of the road the petitioner was not entitled
to rent;
(5) That the leases might be treated as mortgages, and that the petiz
tioner's interest thereunder was subordinate to that of the mortgage bondholders;
(6) That the transaction, though not an actual fraud, was a construe.:
tive fraud upon the mortgagees.

THESE were two intervening petitions, filed by McGourkey
as trustee for the holders of certain car-trust certificates, to
compel the performance, by the receiver of the defendant raiiway company, of the covenants of certain leases made by the
petitioner with said company, or the delivery by the receiver

OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

to the petitioner of a large amount of rolling stock described
in these leases, in order that the same might be sold, and tor
an account and payment of the rental value of such rolling
stock, while in the cutody of such receiver.
On January 7, 1884, the Central Trust Company of New
York fied its bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the Jnited
States for the Northern District of Ohio, for the foreclosure
of a certain mortgage for $3,000,000, for non-payment of
interest, the mortgage covering not only the line of the railroad between the terminal points, but the rolling stock,
"together with all the engines, cars, machinery, supplies, tools
and fixtures, now or at any time hereafter held, owned or
acquired by the said party of the first part for use in connection with its line of railroad aforesaid." There was also a
covenant for further assurance applicable to"'"all such future
acquired depots, grounds, estates, equipments and property as
it may hereafter from time to time purchase for use in and
upon said line of railroad, and intended to be hereby conveyed." Upon the filing of the bill, the railroad company
entered its appearance, waived a subpoena, and consented to
the appointment of a receiver; and upon the same day, John
E. fartin was appointed receiver with the usual powers in
such cases.
On April 2, 1884, the petitioner, George X. iMfcGourkey,
intervened by leave of the court and filed two petitions based
upon three car-trust leases known as Lease A, Lease B No. 1,
and Lease B No. 2. The first petition represented that the
agreement known as Lease A was entered into on August 20,
1880, whereby the railroad company agreed to hire from petitioner, as trustee, 800 coal cars and 14 locomotives for a period
of ten years from the date of their delivery to the company,
the company agreeing to pay as. rent $100,000 on their
delivery, and in addition thereto $40,000 per year, with interest at the rate of 8 per cent; that in case of default in payment of rent, petitioner might, at his option, remove such
locomotives and cars, sell them at public or privat6 sale, apply
the proceeds to the payment of any instalment of rent and
interest not theretofore paid, for the whole tdrm, whether such

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

539

Statement of the Case.
instalment was due or not, the surplus to be paid to the company; but if the proceeds should not be sufficient to pay the
expense of removal and sale, together with the rent and interest, the company was to pay the petitioner the difference.
That under this agreement he delivered 14 locomotives marked
"Ohio Central Car Trust," numbered 17 to 30 inclusive; also
800 coal cars, bearing the same marks; that the company
defaulted in the payment of interest; and that petitioner
demanded possession of the cars and locomotives, and was
placed in possession of the same, but they afterwards passed
into the possession of the receiver, who refused to deliver them
up without the authority of the court. There were other covenants in the lease, a copy of which was annexed to the petition
as an exhibit, not necessary now to be mentioned.
The second intervening petition was based upon car-trust
Leases B No. 1 and B No. 2, copies of which were attached to
the petition as exhibits. Lease B No. 1 bore date March 1,
1881, and embraced 1400 coal cars. Lease B No. 2 bore date
March 1, 1882, and embraced 2500 coal cars, including the
1400 covered by Lease B No. 1; also 340 box cars and 13
locomotives. The two leases attached to this petition were
not substantially different from Lease A in their general provisions. Both provided for the leasing of equipment not then
in existence, bearing the numbers set out in the schedule
thereto attached, to be delivered "as per the contract of the
said McGourkey with the said makers." Leases A and B No.
1 provided that the railroad: company might, for convenience,
make the contract for the rolling stock directly with the
makers. tease B No. 2 also provided that the railroad company might, for convenience, "make the contracts for delivery
direct with the.makers of said locomotives and cars, but so as
in no way to affect the title of said party of the first part to
said equipment." All the leases provided that at all times the
name, number and plate, or other signs of ownership of the
said trustee, viz., "'Ohio Central Car Trust,' or the initials, to
wit, '0 . 0. C. T.,' shall be affixed and retained upon each of
the cars aforesaid for the purpose of making the ownership
known, and in the event of any such marks or sign being

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

destroyed; the Ohio Central Railroad Company will immediately restore the same, and that such other things shall be
done as by the counsel of said trustee shall be deemed necessary and expedient for the full and complete protection of the
rights of said trustee as the owner of said cars for the benefit
of the holders of said obligations." Neither of these leases
was ever recorded.
On December 10, 1884, a decree of foreclosure and sale was
entered, describing the property mortgaged as composed of
the railroad between the specific termini, together with the
after-acquired property, in the language in which the same
was described in the mortgage. The property was bid in by
a committee of the bondholders, who, with some of the stockholders, proceeded to reorganize the road under the name
of the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Company, the real
defendant in this proceeding.
On June 9, 1885, a decree was rendered upon the intervening petitions of McGourkey, purporting to -be after due proof
of service of notice upon the Central Trust Company, the Ohio
Central Railroad, and the receiver. By this decree the receiver
was ordered to deliver up to McGourkey the cars and locomotives described in said Lease A and said Leases A3, at convenient
points to be designated by petitioner, being in all 27 locomotives, 340 box cars and 3300 coal cars. The equipment was
redelivered to McGourkey in pursuance of this order, and was
by him, after leases of portions to the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad and the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Companies,
respectively, all sold at public auction for the benefit of his
fiduciaries in December, 1885.
On August 14, 1886, the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway
Company, and on the 1st of October, 1886, the Central Trust
Company, answered: under leave of the court the intervening
petitions of MlcGourkey, averring that the locomotives and
cars were sold and were paid for by the Ohio Central Railroad
Company, and passed under and became subject to its mortgage; that they were sold under the decree of foreclosure, and
duly conveyed to the purchasing trustees, and thereby the
leases from McGourkey became inoperative and of no effect;

3IcGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

541

Argument for Appellant.

that the purchasing trustees afterwards transferred all their
right, title and interest in the same to the Toledo & Ohio
Central Railway Compaily; and that the same are now the
property of such company. The answer closed with a prayer
that both said leases and agreements be declared null and
void; that McGoudrkey might be "decreed to have no title or
interest in said rolling stock; and that the railway company
b6 put in possession thereof. The answer of the railway company was much more specific, in its details, setting forth particularly how the same had been purchased and paid for.
On June 7, 1887, the special master filed his report, to which
exceptions were filed by McGourkey to the amount allowed;
and by the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Company and
the receiver to the special findings of facts, and also to the
amount allowed.
The case subsequently came before the court upon exceptions to the report of the special master. The court found
against the title of McGourkey to most of the propert7, and
that, so far as he had established any right to, or lien upon,
the rolling stock, it appeared that he had already been paid
therefor by the company and th6 receiver more than he was
entitled to, and his exceptions were 3 therefore, overruled and
his petitions dismissed. 36 Fed. Rep. 520. McGourkey thereupon appealed to this court. The material facts are fully
stated in the opinion of the court,, [see infra,pages 553 to,563].
Mr. George Boadly and Mr. _Fiser A. Baker for appellant,
upon the question of estoppel.
Appellees are estopped to dispute appellant's title.
The decree of June 9, 1885, was made upon the intervening
petitions of McGourkey, filed more than fourteen mon'ths
previously, and on "due proof of service of notice of application for an order granting the prayer of said petition on the
Central Trust Company of New York, the Ohio Central
Railroad and on J. E. Martin, Esq., Receiver," and after hearing counsel for the receiver and the Central Trust Company.
At that time the Toledo &.Ohio Central Railroad Company
was not a party to the cause, or interested in the property.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

This decree was final, between the parties, as to the title
and right of possession of the engines and cars. It left no
open question; it granted the prayer of the intervening petitions. It was submitted on argument, counsel for the receiver and the Central Trust Company having been heard in
opposition to the decree, and it finally disposed of all that
part of the case which involved the title to the equipment and
the right to receive rental for its use by the receiver, leaving
for future consideration only the question how much additional
rental would justly be payable. It is within the principles
laid down in the case of the Central Trust Company v. Grant
-Locomotive Works, 135 U. S. 207. It has never been appealed
from, and required and bound the learned Judge of the Circuit Court, on the principles established in that case, to proceed to hear and determine, upon the report of the master,
what a fair compensation for the rental would be, and did not
justify him in disregarding the report of the master, and determining that appellant under no circumstances was entitled
to any compensation, or in reopening the question of title, as
he attempted to do by the leave given to the Central Trust
and the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Companies to file
such additional pleadings, "as in their judgment may be
necessary to enable them to recover the rolling stock, cars
and engines in the pleadings mentioned, or the value thereof."
It is proper, however, to say that the case of the Central
Trust Company v. The Grant.ocomotive Works, was decided by
this court April 21, 1890; that at the time of Judge Jackson's
decree in this case, Judge Baxter's order, which was reversed
in that case, was in force, and was supposed to establish the
law within the Sixth Circuit, so that the question of the conclusiveness and binding effect of the decree of June 9, 1885,
could not, and did not, receive the consideration at the hands
of counsel, or of his Honor, Judge Jackson, that it would have
done at a later date.
The deerpe directing the delivery of possession to McGour-key could be changed or modified only upon petition for rehearing filed during the same term of the court, or upon
appeal to this court, or by bill of review. In Forgay v. Con-

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

543

Argument for Appellant.

rad, 6 How. 201, 204, it was held that: "When the decree
decides the right to the possession of the property in contest,
and directs it to be delivered up by the defendant to the complainant,
.
and the complainant is entitled to have
such decree carried immediately into execution, the decree
must be regarded as ,afinal one to that extent, . . . although so much of the bill is retained in the Circuit Court as
is necessary for the purpose of adjusting by a further decree
the accounts between the parties pursuant to the decree

passed."
In Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342, the court reaffirmed the
rule laid down in Forgayv. Conrad.- An order to deliver up
stock was held final in this case, although an account was
decreed to be taken as to the amount paid and to be paid
for the stock, and as to dividends.
In St. Louis, I'on Mountain,& Southern Railroad v. Southern Express Co., 108 U. S. 24, two questions were presented:
first, whether the railroad was obliged to do certain transportation in question, and secondly, what was a reasonable compensation _vendente lite. The decree required the railroad
company to do the express company's business at reasonable
rates. This was held to be final, to which was added, "Matters relating to the administration of the cause, and accounts
to 1be settled in accordance with the principles fixed by the
decree are incidents of the main litigation which may be settled by supplemental order after final decree." See also Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106 U. S. 3; Grant v. Pheenix Insurance
Co., 106 U. S. 429.
In WFinthrop Iron Co. v. .leeker, 109 U. S. 180, Chief Justice Waite (page 184) cites with approval the words of Mv[r.
Justice McLean in Craigheadv. Wilson, 18 How. 201, to the
effect that:
"The decree is final 'on all matters within the pleadings,'
and nothing remains to be done but to adjust the accounts
between the parties growing out of the operations of the
defendants during the pendency of the suit." See also Hill
v. Chicago & Evanston Railroad,140 U. S. 52; Zjvisburgh
Bank v. Sheffey, 140 U. S. 445.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

We respectfully submit that it would be the height of bad
faith now to allow the Toledo & Ohio Central Railroad Company-the prayer of McGourkey's petition having been
granted, the equipment having been placed in his possession
for sale, in accordance With the terms'of his lease, no appeal
having been taken from the decree, part of the equipment
having been leased to it, and the whole sold at auction in
December, 1885, and dispersed,-to claim that all the while,
and notwithstanding the decree, the equipment remained the
property of the Ohio Central Railroad Company, or subject
to the prior lien of the Central Trust Company, whose counsel were heard in opposition to the decree, and passed to the
Toledo & Ohio Central Company, by a sale confirmed, and in
pursuance of a deed executed after the date of this decree,
and while McGourkey was in possession of the engines and
cars and engaged in the execution of the decree.
3.1. Stevenson Burke, for appellees.
Aliz. JusT c
Biowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The controversy in this case turns principally upon the
title of the petitioner MeGourkey to the rolling stock in question, and upon the relative priorities of the holders of the cartrust certificates, whom he represents, and the purchasers of
the railway, who succeeded to the rights of the first mortgagees under the after-acquired property clause of the mortgage.
(1) We ar6 onfronted upon the threshold of the case with
the pioposition that the decree of June 9, 1885, ordering this
property to be turned over by the receiver to the petitioner,
was a final decree, which it was not in the power of the court
at a subsequent term to disturb, and hence that the court was
estopped to render the decree of February 4,-1889, from
which this appeal was taken, at least in so far as it assumed
to upset the title of MeGourkey.
Probably no question of equity practice has -been the sub-

McGOURIKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

545

Opinion of thu -'ourt.

ject of more frequent discussion in this court than the f.nality
of decrees. It has usually arisen upon appeals takzp from
decrees claimed to be interlocutory; but it has occasionally
happened that the power of the court to set aside such a
decree at a subsequent term has been the subject of dispute.
The cases, it must be conceded, are not altogether harmonious. Upon the one hand it is clear that a decree is final,
though the case be referred to a master to execute the decree
by a sale of property or otherwise, as in the case of the foreclosure of a mortgage. Ray v. Law, 3 Cranch, 179 ; Whiting
v. Bank of the United States, 13 Pet. 6; Bronson v. Railroad
Co., 2 Black, 524. If, however, the decree of foreclosure and
sile leaves the amount due upon the debt to be determined,
and the property to be sold ascertained and defined, it -is not
final Railroad Co. v. Swasey, 23 Wall. 405; Grant v. Phcenix Insurance Co., 106 -U. S. 429. A like result follows if it
merely determines the validity of the mortgage, and, without
ordering a sale, directs the case to stand continued for further decree upon the coming in of the master's report. Burlington, Cedar Rapids &c. Railway v. Simmons, 123 U. S.
52; Parsonsv. Robinson, 122 U. S. 112.
It is equally well settled that a decree in admiralty determining the question of liability for a collision or other tort,
(The Palmyra,10 Wheat. 502; Chace v. Tasquez, 11 Wheat.
429 ; -Mordecaiv. Lindsey, [The Mary Eddy,] 19 How. 199,)
or in equity establishing the validity of a patent and referring
the case to a master to compute and report the damages, is
interlocutory merely. Barnard v. Gibson, 7 How. 650;
Htumiseon v. Stainthorp, 2 Wall. 106.
It may be said in general that if the court make a decree
fixing the rights and liabilities of 'the parties, and thereupohn
refer the case to a master for a ministerial purpose only, and
no further proceedings in court are contemplated, the decree
is final; but if it refer the case to him as a subordinate court
and for a judicial purpose, as to state an account between the
parties, upon which a further decree is to be entered, the
decree is not final. Craighead v. Wilson, 18 How. 199;
Beebe v. Russell, 19 How. 283.
VOL. cxLvi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

But even if an account be ordered taren, if such accounting
be not asked for in the bill, and be ordered simply in execution of the decree, and such decree be final as to all matters
within the pleadings, it will still be regarded as final. Craighead v. WTilson, 18 How. 199; Winthtrop Jron, Co. v. MAeeker,
109 U. S. 180.
In the case under consideration the petitioner prayed for
four distinct reliefs:
1. That the receiver perform all the covenants of the lease,
and pay all sums due, etc.;
2. Or that he be directed to deliver to petitioner the rolling
stock in order that the same might be sold;
3. That he be directed to file a statement of the number of
miles run, and of the sums received for the use of such rolling
stock;
4. That it be referred to an examiner to take testimony
and report the value of the use of such rolling stock while in
.custody of the receiver, and that the receiver be directed to
pay the amount justly due, etc.
The decree followe'd the general terms of the petition by ordering the rolling stock claimed to be delivered to McGourkey,
and referring the case to a special master to determine the rental
of the same while used by the receiver; the value of the rolling stock over and above the sums paid by the receiver to the
petitioner while the same was in the custody of the receiver;
the number of miles run by the receiver; the money received
for the use of the same by other roads; the loss, damage, and
destruction to the same while in the custody of the receiver;
and also to "determine and report upon all questions and matters of dfference between said receiver and said McGourkey,
growing out of the use and restoration of said cars and locomotives.' It is claimed that inasmuch as the court granted
the prayer of the petitioner, and turned the property over to
him, it was a final adjudication of his right to the same, notwithstanding the reference to a master for an accounting;
and we are referred to certain cases in this court as sustaining
this contention.
In Forgay v. Conrad,6.Hov. 201, the object of the bill was

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

547

Opinion of the Court.

to set aside sundry deeds for lands and slaves, and for an'
account of the rents and profits of the property so conveyed.
The court entered a decree declaring the deeds fraudulent and
void, directing the property to be delivered up to the complainant, directing one of the defendants to pay him $11,000,
and "that the complainant do have execution for the several
matters aforesaid." The decree then directed that the master
take an account'of the profits. Under the peculiar circumstances of the case the decree was held to be appealable,
although, said Chief Justice Taney, " Undoubtedly it is not
final in the strict technical sense of that term." The opinion
was placed largely upon the ground that the decree not only
decided the title to the property in dispute, but awarded
execution.
In the very next case, Perkins v. Fourniquet,6 How. 206,
where the Circuit Court decreed that complainants were entitled to two-sevenths of certain property, and referred the
matter to a master to take an account of it, the decree was
held not to be final. And again in the next case, Pulliam v.
Christian, 6 How. 209, a decree setting aside a deed by a
bankrupt, directing the trustees under the deed to deliver up
to the assignee all the property in their hands, and directing
an account to be taken of the proceeds of sales previously
made, was also hold not to be a final decree. Indeed, the
case of Forgay v. Conrad has been generally treated as an
exceptional one, and, as was said in Craigheadv. Wilson, 18
How. 199, 202, as *made under the peculiar circumstances of
that case, and to prevent a loss of the property, which would
have been disposed of beyond the reach of an appellate court
before a final decree adjusting the accounts could be entered.
A somewhat similar criticism was made of this case in -Beebe
v. Russell, 19 How. 283, 287, wherein it was intimated that
the fact that execution had been awarded was the. only
ground upon which the finality of the decree could be
supported.
In Tomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342, the decree directed the
defendant to transfer to the plaintiff certain shares of stock,
and that an account be taken as to the amount paid and to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

paid for the same, and as to dividends accrued. But this was
held to be a final decree upon the grounid that it changed the
property in the stock as absolutely and as completely as could
be done by execution on a decree for sale. In this case the
court did distinctly approve of Forgay v. Conrad,although the
decree was put.upon the ground that it decided finally the right
'to the property in contest.
In Winthrop Iron Company v. Afeeker, 106 U. S. 180, a bill
-was filed to set aside as fraudulent the proceedings of a stockholders' meeting, and to have a receiver appointed. The decree adjudged that the proceedings of the meeting were
fraudulent; that a certain lease executed in accordance with
the authority then given was void; that a receiver should be
appointed with power to continue the business; and that an
account be taken of profits realized from the use of the leased
property, and also of royalties upon certain ores mined by the
defendants. The court held the decree to be final, because
the whole purpose of the suit had been accomplished, and the
accounting ordered was only in aid of the execution of the decree, and was not a part of the relief prayed for in the bill,
Which contemplated nothing niore than a rescission of the
authority to execute the lease, and a transfer of the management of the company to a receiver. The language of Mr.
Justice McLean in Craighead v. Wilson, 18 How. 201, was
quoted to the effect that the decree was final on "all matters
within the pleadings," and nothing remained to be done but
to adjust accounts between the parties growing out of the
operations of the defendants during the pendency of the suit.
The case was distinguished from suits by patentees in the
fact that, in such suits, the money recovery is part of the subject-matter of the suit. In this particular, too, the case is
clearly distinguishable from the one now under consideration,
inasmuch as here the account which the special master was
directed to take was within the issue made by the pleadings
and a part of the relief prayed for in the petition, the absence
of which was held by the court in the Winthrop Iron Case to
establish the finality of the decree.
In Central Trust Company v. Grant Locomotive Works, 135

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & 01I0 RAILWAY.

549

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 207, certain decrees were set aside at a subsequent term of
the court of its own motion. The decrees "determined the ownership of thp locomotives and the right to their possession; that
they were essential to the operatioii of the roads by the receiver, and Ghould be purchased by him; that certain designated amounts should be paid for the rentals and the purchase
price, which amounts were made a charge upon the earnings,
and that the amounts should be paid by the receiver."
Apparently there was no reference at all to a master for an
accounting, and the decrees were held to be final. Obviously
the case is not decisive here.
Upon the other hand, in Beebe v. Russell, 19 llo'w. 283, 285,
the court decreed that the defendants should execute certain
conveyances, andsurrender possession, and then referred it to
a master, to take an account of the rents and profits received
by the defendants, with directions as to how the account
should be taken. This decree was held not to be final, Mr.
Justice Wayne remarking that it might be so "if all the consequential directions depending upon the result of the master's
report are containea in the decree so that no further decree
of the court will be necessary, upon the confirmation of the
report, to give the parties the entire and full benefit of the
previous decision of the court;" and that the decree is final
when ministerial duties only are to l e performed to ascertain
the sum due. Practically the same ruling was made in the
next case of Farrellyv. Moocfolk, 19 How. 288.
In the case of the Keystone -ManganeseCo. v. .Zartin, 132
.U. S. 91, the bill was in the nature of an action of trespass for
removing minerals from the plaintiff's land, and prayed for an
injunction restraining the defendant from the commission of
further trespasses, and for an account of the quantity and
value of the ore taken. The court made a decree per'petualy enjoining the defendant from entering upon or removing minerals fron the land, and further ordering an
account, etc. This was .held to be not a final decree from
which an appeal could be taken to this court,because it did
not dispose of the entire controversy between the parties.
This case is directly in point, and was referred to with approval in Lodge V. Twell, 135 U. S. 232.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

There are none of these cases which go to the extent of
holding a decree of this kind final. While it directed the
surrender of the rolling stock in question to the petitioner, it
(lid not purport to pass upon his title to the same, and referred
the case to a master, in accordance with the prayer of the
bill, to take an account not only of rents and profits and of
damage to the rolling stock, but of "all questions and matters of difference" between the receiver and the petitioner
"growing out of the use and restoration of the same." This
decree could not be said to be a complete decision of the matters in controversy, or to leave ministerial duties only to be
performed, or to direct an accounting merely as an incident to
the relief prayed for in the bill.
But if the finality of this decree were only a question of
doubt, we think that, in view of the manner in which it was
treated by the court below, that doubt should be resolved in
favor of the defendant. The decree was pronounced on June
9, 1885; on August 14, 1886, the Toledo & Ohio Central
Railway Company, under leave of the court, and without
objection, filed an answer, averring the ownership of the rolling stock to have been in the Ohio Central Railroad Company,
and setting forth in detail the manner in which it had been
purchased and paid for, and, without praying in terms that
the former decree be set aside, asked that the leases be rescinded and declared to be null and void ;-that the money and
evidences of indebtedness received by the petitioner be refunded; that the ownership of the cars be decreed to be in
the defendant as purchaser under the foreclosure sale; and
that it be put in possession thereof. A similar answer, adopting the allegations of the other, was filed by the Central
Trust Company on October 1, 1886. If the former decree
were final these answers were impertinent, and should have
been stricken from the files. The special master to whom
the case was referred stated in his report that the first contention related to the title to the property; that the order of
reference to him treated it as the property of the trustee
McGourkey; and that, in his opinion, the testimony failed to
sustain the claims of the purchaser. Testimony upon the

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY. 551
Opinion of the Court.

question of title was taken by both parties to the proceeding.
In the opinion of the court, too, which was filed September 3,
1888, it is stated to have been "conceded by counsel for petitioner McGourkey (and, as this court thinks, properly so) that
complainant and the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Cornpany are not estopped by anything that has occurred during
the progress of the foreclosure suit from setting up the claims
they insist upon in respect to said equipment." In short, it
was only in this court that the finality of this decree was
claimed. The decree entered in pursuance of this opinion did
not even assume to vacate the .former decree, but treated the
title to the property as distinct from the right of possession;
found the issue joined in favor of the trust company and the
railway company; overruled the exceptions of petitioner; set
aside the report of the special master; disallowed McGourkey's
claim; and dismissed his petitions. We lay no stress upon
the fact that the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Company
was not made a party to the proceedings under the McGourkey
petitions, since, having purchased the property while those
proceedings were pending, at the foreclosure sale, it was
affected with notice of the litigation.
(2) Counsel for the receiver and the Toledo & Ohio Central Railway Company, the real defendant in this proceeding,
take the position that the so-called leases of McGourkey, under
which he claims title to this rolling stock, and compensation
for its use, were a mere device on the part of the syndicate,
which organized and controlled the road, to keep the property
covered by these leases from passing, under the subsequently
acquired property clause of the mortgage, to the trust company, and to reserve it for their own use and emolument, or
for the holders of the car-trust certificates. Contracts, by
which railways, insufficiently equipped with rolling stock of
their own, lease or purchase, under the form of a conditional
sale, such equipment from manufacturers, are not of uncommon occurrence, and, when entered into bonafldo for the benefit of the road, have been universally respected by the courts.
United States v. New OrleansRailroad,12 Wall. 362; Fosdick
v. Sohall, 99 U. S. 235; Mfyer v. Car Company, 102 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Indeed, the business of manufacturing rolling stock and
loaning it to railways which have not a sufficient capital to
purchase a proper equipment of their own, has become a
recognized industry. If, however, such contracts are made
by directors of the road with themselves, or with others with
whom they stand in confidential relations, they are open to
the suspicion which .ordinarily attaches to transactions between a corporation and its directors; and, if they appear to
have been made directly or indirectly for their own benefit,
courts will refuse to give them effect. .Drury v. Cross, 7
11all. 299; Twin Lick Qil Co. v. 3farbury, 91 U. S. 587;
WIardell v. Railroad Com pany, 103 U. S. 661, 658.
It is earnestly insisted by the petitioner in this case that, if
there were any fraud in this transaction, it was perpetrated
not by him, but by the syndicate upon the railroad company,
which they represented; and that, as the latter has made no
complaint, neither the Trust Company, who took only the
rights of the mortgagor, the Railroad Company, nor the
Toledo & Ohio Railway Company, which succeeded only to
the rights of the Trust Company, are in a'position to take
advantage of this fraud; and that the Toledo & Ohio Rail'way Company acquired no higher, better or other title than
that of the parties to the suit in which the foreclosure sale
was made.
There is no doubt that) if this railway company entered
into a bonafide contract with McGourkey to lease of him rolling stock which legally or equitably belonged to him, his title
would not be divested by the delivery of the, property to the
railroad company; the rolling stock would continue to be his
property, and he would be entitled to the stipulated compensation for its use. It is also true that the future acquired
property clause of a railway mortgage attaches only to such
property as the company owns, or may thereafter acquire,
subject to any liens under which it comes into the possession
of the company. United States v. ffew Orledns Railroad
Company, 12 W"all. 362. If, however, the property, though
nominally leased by the railway company, was acquired under
an arrangement which amounted in law to a purchase by it,

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

553

Opinion of the Court.

we know of no rule of law which will estop the mortgagee or
a purchaser at a foreclosure sale from insisting that the railway thereby acquired the title to the property, and that it
had become subject. to the lien of the mortgage -in other
words, the mortgagee is not bound by the construction put
upon the contract by the mortgagor. Indeed, it is not the
railway so much as the mortgagee, whose rights are impaired
by a transaction of this kind; and, if the latter cannot take
advantage of its illegality,, it is probable that no one else
would, since the railway is represented by directors who are
charged with being parties to the scheme. It would be a
strange anomaly if the very parties against whom the. alleged
device was directed were estopped to take advantage of it by
the acts of a corporation represented and controlled by directors who were themselves parties to it. The gist of the
complaint in this case is that it is their property which the
petitioner is seeking to recover; 'that the title to it became
vested in the railway company by its purchase, and that they
have legally succeeded to the rights of the"company.
The history of this case properly begins with a contract
made on December 3, 1879, between a syndicate, known as
the $3,000,000 pool, through its committee, composed of three
prominent capitalists, and the firm of Brown, Howard & Co.;
who were also members of the syndicate, wherein the firm
agreed to purchase two lines of railway, and to organize a
new company under the name of the Ohio Central Railway
Company, with a apital stock of $4,000,000, which was to be
delivered to the syndicate, to proceed and complete the road,
and to purchase at the lowest cost $560,000 worth of equipmert and plate it on the line, free from liens or charges.
They further agreed to procure the issue of $3,000,000 of first
mortgage bonds, and also $3,000,000 of income bonds, secured
by a mortgage upon the same property, inferior only to the
first mortgage. These bonds were placed in the Metropolitan
National Bank of New York, for delivery to the subscribers
to the $3,000,000 pool represented by the syndicate, as their
assessments were paid. In consideration of this, the syndicate
,agreed to pay the firm $3,000,000 in cash. Brown, Howard

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

& Co. proceeded to organize the company under this contract,
received from the syndicate the $3,000,000, and turned over
to them the ten millions of stdck and bonds, which were distributed among the members of the syndicate in proportion to
their subscriptions to the pool. This first mortgage provided
for was executed January 1, 1880, and was signed by the
.president and secretary of the company. Brown, Howard &
Co., however, never furnished the $560,000 of equipment provided for in their contract, but, it seems, by subsequent agreement with the pool or syndicate committee, they were released
,from their obligation to furnish the equipment, and instead of
it were required to make further expenditures on the railway
property, which were said to have exceeded the $560,000, the
firm accepting the notes of the railway company for the
excess.
On July '7,1880, the president of the Ohio Central Railroad
Company, acting in his capacit - as president, ordered of the
Brooks Locomotive Works of Dunkirk five locomotives, to be
delivered in December, 1880, and January, 1881. On July 19
he ordered five others, and on August 22 four others. These
were all ordered for the railroad company. On August 20 the
first lease, known as Lease A, was executed between McGourkey and the railroad company. By this instrument the railroad company agreed to hire of the petitioner, as trustee, and
he agreed to lease, 800 coal cars and 14 locomotives for the
period of ten years from the date of the delivery of the same
to the company, the company agreeing to pay him as rent
$100,000 on the delivery thereof, and in addition thereto
$40,000 per year, with interest thereon at 8 per cent; in case
of default in the payment of any instalment of interest, the
lessor reserved the right of entering upon the premises of the
company, removing any of the locomotives and cars, selling
them at public or private sale, and applying the proceeds upon
any and all instalments of rent or interest thereon, not theretofore paid, for such cars, for the whole of said term, whether
said instalments had then fallen due or not, and if there
should prove a surplus after paying such rent, interest and
expenses, the same should be paid to thd company, but if there

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY. 55.5
Opinion of the Court.

should be any deficit, the company should be liable to pay the
same upon demand. The company was to keep the property
in good repair, and keep the name, number and plate or other
marks, to wit: "Ohio Central Car Trust" or "0. C. C. T."
fixed and retained upon each of the cars and locomotives for
the purpose of making the ownership publicly known; also to
keep all property insured against fire, loss payable to the
trustee, and to replace any cars or locomotives lost by fire.
Schedule A, referred to in the lease,. was not actually annexed
until February 23, 1881. The 14 locomotives were ordered, as
above stated, by the president of the company, and marked
"Ohio Central C. T.," and numbered from 17 to 30, inclusive.
The 800 coal cars were also marked in the same manner.
Mr. McGourkey, who, by this and two other similar instruments, assumed to own and to lease to the railroad company
this large amount of rolling stock, was not a manufacturer or
dealer in locomotives or cars; he was not a resident of Ohio,
nor engaged in the railroad business, and, so far as appears,
never saw the property, at least until after it went into possession of the receiver, nor knew of the contracts which were
made for its purchase. He was the cashier of the Metropolitan National Bank of New York, the porrespondent bank
of the Commercial National Bank of Cleveland, of which the
president of the railroad company was also president. He had
very little knowledge as to the origin of the car trusts, which
be represented, avd knew very little about the arrangements
which were made for paying in and paying out the money; he
says the understanding was that he was to have little or no
trouble in regard to the details; "that B. G. Mitchell, who is
present here, and who is connected with the bank, was to take.
charge of that part. . .
I mentioned to him [the president] that I was made trustee of this car trust, and I was
sorry. He said Mr. Mitchell will attend to the details, and it
will not give you much trouble." Beyond taking the receipts
for the cars from the road, signing the subscription certificates
and endorsing the payments, he appears to have had nothing
to do with the transaction. In short, Mr. McGourkey was a
mere figure-head. Mr. Mitchell, who attended to the details,

OCTOBER TERiMf, 1892.
O
Opinion of the Court.

was secretary of the railroad company and a clerk in the
M etropolitan National Bank; he had no more than Mr.
McGourkey to do with ordering the cars, but attended to the
finances of the trust. The names of the subscribers to the
trust were given to him by three persons, who were all directors of the road. They instructed him to make a subscription
certificate, which would be signed by the bank as fiscal agent,
certifying that the holders would be entitled to so many
thousand dollars of car-trust certificates when the several
istalments were endorsed as paid in full. The subscription
certificates were signed by the cashier, or stamped by him as
paid for the cashier. The money received was credited to an
account called the "Equipment account of the Ohio Central
Railroad" in the Metroiolitan National Bank, and was paid
out to the president of the road, who had charge of buying
the equipment, by transferring it to the account of the Commercial National Bank of Cleveland, of which he was also
president; also by paying equipment notes issued by the equipment company, so called, which were endorsed individually by
the president and one of the directors. Mr. Mitchell further
says: "When these instalments were all paid on the subscription certificates, and a certificate from the general manager of
the road with a schedule of the numbers and marks of the
equipment under the several trusts which were on the road
was returned to me, I turned them over to Mr. _cGourkey
and he certified to the car-trust certificates. These certificates
I turned over to the several subscribers, as appeared on my
record, cancelling their subscription certificates as they surrendered them." It appears from the testimony of the president that -the men who furnished the money to purchase this
equipment were most of them interested in the organization
of the company; that it was all paid in New York except
$50,000, which he subscribed himself ; that the contracts were
all made by him, or by his authority; that the moneys were
received from the Metropolitan National Bank and credited
upon the books of the Commhercial National Bank to the
Ohio Ceitral Railroad Company, without distinguishing these
moneys from othera that were credited to the same company;

IocGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO -RAILWAY. 557
Opinion 'of the Court.

and that no separate accounts were kept with the car trusts.
This account was drawn upon from time to time for the
general purposes of the company, as well as for the payment
of the rolling stock covered by the leases in question.
Mr. Mitchell, who appears to have been more familiar with
these car-trust certificates than any one, except possibly the
president of the company, says that the spme persons who
controlled the subscriptions for the $3,000,000 pool, also, to
a certain extent, controlled the subscriptions for the equipment. "There were other subscribers, but they controlled the
matter." And again: "There were different subscribers for
the equipment to what there were for the main line, although
many of them were the same." Again, in answer to the question who constituted the Ohio Central CarTrust, he mentioned
the names of several gentlemen, all of whom were directors or
connected with the organization of the road. Mr. Martin, himself a director, states: "I myself held about in the neighborhood of $150,000; Mr. Lyman, A. A. Low & Bros. had, I
think, about the same amount, and A-fr. Lyman would naturally
speak for his friend A. M. White. I think he was in the pool
for about $150,000." It is true that another director states:
"The names of the various subscribers I do not recollect, but
may say in a general way that they were a different class of
persons from those who subscribed to' the syndicate, or held
the stock or bonds of the Ohio Central Railway Company."
But he does not seem to have had that acquaintance with the
details of the transaction which the other witnesses had, and
his testimony is outweighed in that particular.
The car-trust associations were not corporations or partnerships, nor legal entities of any description, but were simply
car-trust certificates in the hands of various persons, who
were represented by the petitioner McGourkey. The 14: locomotives included in the schedule attached to the Lease A
were those which had been ordered by the president of the
railroad, before the organization of the first car trust, and
were all delivered between December 20, 1880, and February
10, 1881, billed to the Ohio Central Railroad Company, and
paid for by drafts drawn by G. G. Hadley, general manager,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

upon H. G. Eells, assistant treasurer of the company at Cleveland. Of the 800 coal cars, 606 appear to have been purchased
of the Lafayette Car Works, and paid for by the railroad
company. These 606 cars were mostly received by the company during the fall of 1880. The remaining 194 coal cars
were constructed by the Peninsular Car Works of Detroit
under a contract made by Mr. Hadley, general superintendent, in the name of the Ohio Central Railroad Company; and
'they were paid for by the railroad company by drafts drawn
by Mr. Andrews, the assistant treasurer at Toledo, where the
cars were turned over to the company. These locomotives
and cars were by direction of Mr. Hadley, the general manager, marked in large letters "Ohio Central," and in small
letters "Ohio Central C. T.," either placed upon a small plate
so as to be removed easily, or upon the end of the sill of the
coal cars.
Lease B No. 1 was executed March 1, 1881, and is not substantially different from Leasd A in its general provisions.
Both provide for the leasing and equipment not then in existence, according to a schedule subsequently attached. By
this instrument, petitioner assumed to lease certain coal cars
for thirteen years from the date of delivery of the cars to the
company; "said coal cars to be delivered as per the contract
of'the said George J. McGourkey with the said makers, and
if is understood that the said George T. McGourkey shall in
no way be liable for any delay that may arise in the delivery
of the said cars by the said Makers. And the said railroad
company may, for convenience, make the contract direct with
said makers." There was to be paid as rental $80,000 on the
1st day of September in each year for ten years, with interest
at 8 per cent, at the Metropolitan National Bank, the said
yearly instalments being -evidenced by 800 obligations of
$1000 each, of the Ohio Central Railroad Company maturing
at different times, with interest coupons attached. There was
a provision that, in a case of default in payment, McGourkey
should have*the right to tale possession and remove all rolling stock and bell the same, "together with thirty thousand
shares of $100 each of the capital stock of the Ohio Central

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & 0111.

RAILWAY.

559

Opiniod of the Court.

Coal Company, pledged by said lessees as security for the performance of said contract, and the payment of the principal
and interest of the said rental certificates, at public or private
sale." There were other provisions similar to those contained
in Lease A, concerning the payment of the surplus to the
railroad company, its liability for any deficit, and its obligation to fix and retain upon each of the cars the words, "Ohio
Central Car Trust," or the initials, to wit, "0. C. C. T.," for
the purpose of making their ownership known, etc. There
was a further provision that in case all payments were
promptly made the coal cars should become the absolute
property of the railroad company, and the trustee should
make conveyance thereof on demand. The schedule, which
was not annexed to this lease until December 9, 1881, covered
1400 cars, 1000 of which were constructed under contracts
made by Mr. Hadley, general manager of the Ohio Central
Railroad Company, with the Peninsular Car Works of Detroit, on January 3, 1881, two months before the lease 'was
executed. The manager of the Peninsular Car Works testified that the contracts were the result of personal conferences
with some of the railroad managers, in which it was mentioned that these cars were for the car-trust association, and
that directions were given to stencil the cars in such manner
as to show that they belonged to a cai-trust association. Ten
of these cars were delivered to the company before the lease
was executed, and the residue after the date of the lease.
They all went into .possession of the railroad company between February. 26 and the early fall of 1881. They were
paid for by drafts drawn by the auditor of the company upon
H. P. Eells, assistant treasurer, presumably out of the moneys
transferred from the equipment account ind the Metropolitan
National Bank of New York to the-Commercial National
Bank of Cleveland. Two hundred and fifty of these cars'
were built by the Michigan Car Company under a contract
made with the railroad company by correspondence during
themonth of December, 1880, delivery to be made during the
months of April, May and June, 1881. On February 1, 1881,
Mr. Hadley, the general manager, instructed the builders by

OCTOBER TERM1r, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

letter to number the cars, and to letter them "Ohio Central"
in large letters, and "Ohio Central C. T." in small letters on
the side sill. They were to be delivered after the date of
Lease B No. 1, and they were all paid for in the same manner
as the other one thousand cars. The remaining one hundred
and fifty of these cars were built under a contract of the railroad company with the Peninsular Car Works, entered into on
February 11, 1881, and were delivered in November, 1881,
after the execution of the lease, and were paid for in the same
manner. While no instructions appear to have been given as
to numberijig or lettering these cars, the testimony indicates
that the same policy was pursued as before.
Lease B _o. 2 was executed March 1, 1882, and covered
2500 coal cars, including the 1400 described in Lease B No. 1,
340 box cars and 13 locomotives, according to a schedule annexed to the lease, the date of which is not given. The railroad agreed to pay as rental therefor $180,000 on the first
day of March in each year, froin 1885 to 1894, with interest
thereon at 8 per cent per annum, payable semi-annually on
the 1st day of March and September during each and every
year during the term of twelve years, with the same right to
take possession and sell as contained in the prior leases. The
eighth paragraph of this lease provided that the railroad
should "evidence by lithographed certificates or obligations
the several annual payments for rentals hereunder due at the
time of the maturity of said payments, as provided in this
agreement, and having attached thereto interest coupons,"
etc., such certificates or obligations to be delivered to McGour'key pro 'ataas the rolling stock was delivered to the railroad.
There was a further provision for the rolling stock becoming
the absolute property of the railroad upon the payment of
the instalments and interest. It also recited that the Ohio
Central Coal Company had executed contemporaneously a
mortgage of $1,000,000 upon its coal property as additional
security for the payment of the car-trust certificates provided
for,' which was accepted for a down payment upon said equipmnent. There was a further provision that sufficient of these
car-trust certificates to take up and replace the prior car-trust

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

561

Opinion of the Court.

certificates of the comp.any, amounting to $600,000, were to
be used by McGourkey, and the original car-trust agreements
were to be cancelled, and the equipment covered thereby released under this agreement; but if the holders of the said
prior certificates failed or refused to make the change, the
railroad was only to issue $1,200,000 of certificates thereunder.
If a portion of the holders of the prior certificates elected to
exchange them for certificates issued thereunder, then to such
extent the company would issue certificates thereunder in addition to said $1,200,000, it being the intent to. maintain the aggregate of $1,800,000 in car-trust certificates issued. The 1100
cars mentioned in this lease, which were in addition to the 1400
included in Lease B No. 1, were manufactured under a contract with the Peninsular Car Works of Detroit, dated October 22, 1881, and were to be delivered in Toledo during the
following wintef. Subsequently to the making of this contract, and on November 25, it was modified by releasing the
railroad company, and substituting the Ohio Central Car
Trust Association, Series B, in its place. Provision was also
made for payment at the option of the trust association in
cash on delivery of lots of one hundred cars each, "or in the
paper of the association, endorsed by two directors of the
road. This modification of the agreement -was signed by
the railroad company, by its president and also by McGourkey, as trustee, by V. P. Eells. These cars were paid for by
notes of the Ohio Central Car Trust Association, Series B,
signed by G. G. Hadley, general manager, and endorsed by
the same two directors. All of these 1100 cars were delivered
before the first of March, 1882, the'date of the lease, except
110, which were delivered afterwards; and .forty of the three
hundred and forty box cars were delivered on January 26,
1882. These cars were thus contracted to be built by the
car-trust association, and there seems to be no reason for supposing that the railroad company paid anything for theif
purchase.
Of the thirteen engines, eight were built by the Brooks
Locomotive Works of Dunkirk, N. Y., under like contracts as
were made with the Michigan Car Company and the PeninvoL. cxvi-36

OCTOBER TERTT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

sular Car Company. The locomotive works were instructed
to mark five of them "Ohio Central Car Trust, Series B."
Three more were ordered on December 15, 1881, and on the
following day the president of the railroad wrote the secretary
of the company that he had inadvertently given the order as
president of "the Ohio Central Railroad Company; that the
engines were for the Car Trust, Ohio Central Railroad, Series
B. The remaining five of the thirteen, and the locomotive
Bucyrus, were built by the Ohio Central Railroad Company
in its shops at Bucyrus, for the Ohio Central Car Trust, Series
B, and were paid for by moneys furnished by Mitchell, and
charged to the equipment fund of the Ohio Central Railroad
Company upon the books of the Metropolitan National Bank.
The evidence sufficiently indicates that these engines were
built under the agreement with the Ohio Central Car Trust
Association, No. 2, represented by McGourkey as trustee, by
which the railroad company was to build them at its shops,
and to identify them as belonging to the car trust by proper
labels, and were paid for out of money furnished by the cartrust certificates, represented by McGourkey.
The 340 box cars were delivered to the railroad prior to
June 7, 1882. Forty of them appear to have been in the possession of the company before the date of the lease of March 1.
It does not appear from the testimony how or from whom
they were acquired by the railroad company, nor how nor out
of what fund they were to be paid for.
In relation to this rolling stock, the president testifies that
the understanding was that the railroad company expected to
own this equipment, when all the car-trust certificates were
paid, as the company had agreed to pay; that they had, therefore, a large interest in getting the best contracts they could
for the purchase of the equipment; that he made all the contracts himself for such equipment, or authorized Mr. Iadley
to make them, under the stipulation in the leases that the railroad company might make the contracts direct with the
makers. It is somewhat difficult to see how the president
could have acted as the agent of the car-trust certificates
holdersi or of McGourkey, in making the contracts for this

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & 0HI0 RILILWAY.

563

Opinion of the Court.

rolling stock, inasmuch as the greater portion of these contracts were entered into before the associations were formed,
the leases executed, or the certificates issued.
The facts of this case, then, briefly stated are as follows: A
syndicate of capitalists known as the three-million-dollar pool
contracted with Brown, Howard & Co. for the purchase of
certain lines of railroad for the purpose of organizing the Ohio
Central Railroad Company. They raised three million dollars
in cash, paid it to Brown, Howard & Co., and in return
received four millions in stock and three millions in firstmortgage bonds and three millions of income bonds, a total of
ten millions in stock and securities, which were distributed
among the members of the syndicate according to their subscriptions. In further consideration of the three million
dollars in cash, Brown, Howard & Co. agreed to complete and
organize the road and furnish it with $560,000 of rolling stock.
The latter provision was never complied with, though it is
said they expended that amount for the benefit of the road.
It does not satisfactorily appear what the a' .tual value was of
the ten millions in stock and securities turned over to the
syndicate, although, in the opinion of the court below, it is
said that they were "at the date of issuance or very soon
thereafter worth in the market largely more by several millions than the sum of $3,000,000 paid out therefor." If the
law were complied with the four millions of stock should have
been represented by money or property to that amount, and
if the market value of this stock were merely nominal it is
probably because little, if anything, was ever paid upon it, and
it was used merely as a method of retaining control of the
corporation. It is safe to say that if the stock had been
actually paid up in money or property, and the money raised
by the bonds had been applied to the construction and equipment of the road, these securities would have been worth far
more than the three millions of dollars that were paid for
them, and the device of borrowing money upon car-trust certificate's might not have been necessary. Evidently the syndicate took this stock without recognition of any obligation
imposed upon them by their subscriptions to the same, but

OCTOBER TERhI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

looked upon it simply as a voting power in stockholders' meetings, and as a means of retaining control of the corporation.
Finding that the road was in need of further equipment, and
assuming that there was no other way of providing the money
for that purpose, they proceeded to purchase rolling stock in
the name of the road and to raise money by certificates issued
to subscribers of an equipment fund. Had the directors of the
road made a bonafide arrangement with the manufacturers to
lease a certain amount of rolling stock for their equipment of
this road there could be no doubt of the propriety of their
action, though the arrangement had contemplated an ultimate
purchase by the railroad.
The vice of this arrangement, howeyer, consisted in the fact
that the directors were, so far as it appears, the subscribers to
most if not all these certificates, and had complete control of
the purchase of the stock; and the money realized from them
though kept in a separate account in the Metropolitan Bank,
was mnixed with the other moneys of the railroad company on
the books of the Commercial Bank at Cleveland; that the
rolling stock in question was purchased in the name of the
road largely before the leases were made, and was paid for
out of the money of the road thus deposited with the Commercial Bank; that so far from it appearing that the money
raised upon these certificates went solely to the purchase of
this rolling stock, it appears affirmatively by the minutes of a
directors' meeting held at New York, March 1, 1882, that the
company was indebted to the bank in the sum of $400,000,
for a portion of which the president aild one director were indorsers, an indebtedness created for the purpose of raising
money for equipment and othler urposes; that $1,200,000 of
car-trust certificates were pledged to the bank as security for
this indebtedness, and that the president and treasurer were
authorized to liquidate the same out of the said certificates
and their proceeds. How much of this indebtedness was
incurred for equipment purposes was left entirely uncertain.
It also appdars from the testimony of one of the directors
that the estimated cost of the equipment for which these
$1,200,000 of certificates were issued was but $850,000, and

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY. 565
Opinion of the Court.

that the remaining $350,000 was to be expended by the company at its pleasure.
The directors of this road were evidently acting in two
inconsistent capacities. As directors, they were bound to
watch and protect the interests of the road and obtain the
rolling stock upon the most advantageous terms. As holders
of the car-trist certificates or representatives of such holders,
it was to their interest to lease the same at the best possible
rate and to make sure that as directors this rolling stock
should never become their property except at the highest
price. In other words, they were both buyers and sellers
or lessors and lessees of the same property.
:No principle of law is better settled than that any arrangement by which directors of a corporation become interested adversely to such corporation in contracts with it, or organize
or take stock in companies 6r associations for the purpose of
entering into contracts with the corporation, or become parties to any undertaking to secure to themselves a share in the
profits of any transactions to which the corporation is also a
party, will be looked upon with suspicion. A leading case
upon this subject is that of Wardell v. Railroad Co., 103
U. S. 651, 658, wherein a committee of the board of directors
of a. railway company entered into a contract with a coal
company, the stock of which was largely owned by directbrs
of the railway company. The contract was held to be a fraud
upon the latter. It was said by the court in this case that
"all arrangements, by directors of a railroad company, to
secure an undue advantage to themselves at its expense, by
the formation of a new company as an auxiliary to the
original one, with an understanding that they, or some of
them, shall take stock in it, and then that valuable contracts
shall be given to it, in the profits of which they, as stockholders in the new company, are to share, are so many unlawful devices to enrich themselves to the detriment of the stockholders and creditors of the original company, and will be
condemned whenever properly brought before the courts for
consideration." A somewhat similar case was that of Gilman.
dec. Railroadv. Xelly, 77 Ill. 426, in which it was held to be

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

unlawful for directors of a railroad company to become members of a, compahy with which they have made a contract to
build and equip the road, and that, in such case, the stockholders might at. their election ratify the act, and insist upon
the profits of the contract, or disaffirm it in toto. See also
WF/elpdale v. Cookson, 1 Ves. Sen. 9; .Druryv. Cross, 7 Wall.
299; York Buildings Co. v. McKenzie, 3 Paton, 378; Rofman, Steam Coal Co. v. Curberland Coal Co., 16 Maryland,
456; Cumberland Coal Co. v. Sherman, 30 Barb. 555; Aberdeen lRailway v. Blakie, 1 Alacqueen, 46 1 ; People v. Ove?/yssel
.Township Board, 11 Michigan, 222; Flint & Pre Marquette
Railway Co. v. Dewey, 14 Michigan, 477.
A contract of this kind is clrarly voidable at the election of
the corporation; and when stidh corporation is represented by
the directors against whom the imputation is made, and the
scheme was in reality directed against the mortgagees, and
had for its very object the impairment of their security by the
withdrawal of the property purchased from the lien of their
mortgage, it would be manifestly unjust to deny their competency to impeach the transactibn. The principle itself
would be of no value if the very party whose rights were
sacrificed were denied the benefit of it.
In fine, we are of opinion that this transaction should be
adjudged to be in law what it appeared to be in fact, a purchase by the railway of the rolling stock in question, and that
the device of the car-trust certificates was inoperative either
to vest the legal title in McGourkey, or to prevent the lien of
the mortgage from attaching to it upon its delivery to the
road. At the same time the holders of these certificates, who
stand in the position of having advanced money toward the
equipment of the road, and particularly those who purchased
them for value before maturity, are entitled to certain rights
with respect to the same which must be gauged in a measure
by a consideration of the so called leases themselves. The
title to this .property being, as we hold, in the railroad company, obviously the petitioner is not entitled to rent; his position is that of one who has advanced money to a railroad
company for the purchase of equipment with the understand-

McGOURKEY

. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

567

Opinion of the Court.

ing, which, though not raised directly from the instruments
themselves, may perhaps be implied from the nature of the
transaction, that he was to have a lien upon certain rolling
stock, to be thereafter designated upon a schedule to be
furnished by the railway company. As the lien upon this

property, eidenced by these leases, was acquired after the
purchase of the property by the railway, and the property to
which it was to attach was not designated until after it bad
passed into the possession of the company, and after the lien

of the future-acquired property clause of the mortgage had
attached to it, the lien ofithese certificates, if any there be,
should be postponed to that of the bondholders.
If transactions such as this is claimed to be, could be sustained, there is nothing to prevent any syndicate of men, who
obtain the capital stock of a railway, from organizing cartrust associations, and equipping the road with their own
property, regardless of the capital which they may have at
their disposal, and holding it as against the mortgagees.
Persons investing their money in the bonds of railways in
active operation do so upon the theory that their security
consists largely in the rolling stock of the road, and hence
any arrangement, by which the road is equipped with rolling
stock belonging to another corporation, should be distinct,
unequivocal and above suspicion. Much reliance is placed in
this connection upon the fact that the leases provided that
the railway company might contract, for the delivery of this
stock, directly with the makers; that the property should be
marked or stenciled in such manner as to indicate that it
belonged to the car-trust associations, and that the mortgagees and the public were thereby duly.apprised of the fact
that it was no proper par of the equipment of the railway.
Did the -vice of tliese contracts lie in an attempted concealment of the actual facts, as is frequently the case where
preferences are secretly reserved in assignments, there would
be much force. in this suggestion; but if it inheres in the very
nature of the contract - if there be a thread of covin running
through the web and woof of the entire transaction- in other
words, if the purpose be unlawful, it is not perceived that an

OCTOBER TERIAf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

open avowal of such purpose makes it the less unlawful. We
jo not wish to be understood as saying that the transaction
in question necessarily involved actual fraud on the part of
those partioipating in it. As before observed, contracts of
this description, for the purpose of leasing rolling stock, are
by no means uncommon, and it is not improbable that this
syndicate may have taken it for granted that the raising of
money by car-trust certificates, issued to themselves, or to
those in confidential relations with them, was but another
mode of accomplishing the same result. The law, however,
characterizes the transaction as a constructive fraud upon the
mortgagee.
We think the court below was correct in holding that these
leases, so far as they are a security at all, must be treated as
mortgages. Reading between the lines of these instruments,
it is quite evident that no ordinary letting of property for a
fixed rental was contemplated, but that the retention of title
by the lessor was intended as a mere security for the payment
of the purchase money. Thus, by Lease A there was to be a
payment of a gross sum of $100,000 upon the delivery of the
property, and an annual rental of $40,000, with interest at 8
per cent, with a further provision that if such payments were
promptly made for the ten years specified, the property should
belong to the railroad company without further conveyance.
In case of default, however, the lessor made no provision for
resuming his title to the property, but merely for the resumption of possession for the purpose of sale, as in an ordinary
foreclosure of a mortgage. All these provisions are inconsistent with the idea of an ordinary lease of personal property.
Lease ]3 No. 1 contained similar provisions, with a further
stipulation that in case of default in payment the petitioner
should have the right to sell the property, together with thirty
thousand shares, of $100 each, of the capital stock of the Ohio
Central Coal Company, pledged by such lease as security for
the performance of the contract. The inconsistency of these
contracts with an ordinary lease becomes the more apparent
in the case of Lease D No.2, which covered fourteen hundred
coal cars, included in the former leases, and provided for the

McGOURKEY v. TOLEDO & OHIO RAILWAY.

569

Opinion of the Court.

taking up and replacing of the prior car-trust certificates to
the amount of $600,000, and in case of refusal to make the
exchange, for the issue of twelve hundred thousand of certificates, which were to be used to pay a debt to the bank to
the amount of $400,000, and also to pay a contemplated loan
of $350,000 to aid the railroad in developing its coal property
and in its general business, leaving only the remainder to be
applied to the purchase of the equipment. Instructive cases
upon the relative rank of railway mortgages and instruments
of this description are lEervey v. Rhode Island -Locomotive
Works, 93 U. S. 664; -urch v. TFrig~tt, 46 Illinois, 488;
Hferyford v. Davis, 102 U. S. 235; Fyrank v. -Denver &c.
Railway Co., 23 Fed. IRep. 123.
The court below held that the petitioner had shown a
superior right to three engines included in the schedule to
Lease B No. 2, and as no appeal was taken by the defendant
from this decree, of coarse it is not entitled to complain of this
finding in this court. The-court further found that, so far as
the petitioner had established any right to or lien upon the
property in controversy, regarding him as a mortgagee, it
appeared that he had already been paid by the company and
the receiver more than he was entitled to, and his claims for
further payments and additional compensation were disallowed. We see no reason to question this finding, and, as we
are of opinion that the court was correct inholding the rights
of petitioner subordinate to those of the first mortgage bondholders, its decree dismissing the petitions is, therefore,
Aflrmed.
The CHImEF JUSTICE and MR.

JUSTIOE BREWER

dissented.

