OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Appellant.

paragraph 122, a duty is levied upon "stained or painted window glass and stained or painted glass windows" eo nomine.
The use for which the importations are made in each case is
much the same. The fact that these articles are advertised
and known to the trade as painted or stained glass windows is
an additional reason for supposing that Congress intended to
subject them to a duty.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case rema7kdedforfurther aproceeding8in
conformity to this tinion.

UNITED STATES v. SCHOVERLING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

FOR

Nqo.690. Argued October 25, 1892. -Decided November 7, 1892,

In the latter part of October, 1890, the firm of S., D. & G. imported from
Europe articles described in the entry as "finished gunstocks with
locks.and mountings," unaccompanied by barrels for the guns. The collector levied duty on them as guns, under paragraph 170, in Schedule C
of the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, (26 Stat. 579.) The importers
protested that they were dutiable as manufactures of iron, under paragraph 215 of Schedule C of the act. The general appraisers affirmed
the decision of the collector. it did not appear that the gunstocks had
formed part of completed guns in Europe, and the question of the
importation of the barrels was not involved, although it appeared that
the gun-stocks were intended to be put with barrels otherwise ordered,
to form complete guns. The Circuit Court, on appeal by the importers,
reversed the decision. On appeal to this court, by the United States; Held
that the decision of the Circuit Court was correct.
The provision of § 2 of the act of January 29, 1795, (1 Stat. 411,) was not
still in force.
The appeal to this court was prosecuted as against the firm, but a motion
was granted to cure that defect by amendment.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Ahr. Solicitor General for appellant.

UNITED STATES v. SCHOVERLIN4.
Opinion of the Court.

.M. Albert Comstock for appellees.
AIR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 20th of October, 1890, the firm of Schoverling, Daly
& Gales, composed of August Schoverling, Charles Daly and
Joseph Gales, imported into the port of New York, from
Europe, articles described in the entry as "12 finished gunstocks, with locks and mountings." The collector assessed a
duty upon them of $1.50 each, and in addition thereto, 35 per
cent ad valorem, under paragraph 170 of the act of October
1, 1890, c. 1244, (26 Stat. 579,) in Schedule C of that act, entitled "Metals and Manufactures of Fire-arms:" "170. All
double-barreled, sporting, breech-loading shotguns, valued at
not more than six dollars each, one dollar and fifty cents
each; valued at more than six dollars and not more than
twelve dollars each, four dollars each; valued at more than
twelve dollars each, six dollars each; and in addition thereto,
on all the above, thirty-five per centum ad valorem. Singlebarrel breech-loading shotguns, one dollar each and thirty-fiveper centum ad valorem. Revolving pistols valued at not more
than one dollar and fifty cents each, forty cents each; valued
at more than one dollar and fifty cents, one dollar each; and
in addition thereto, on all the above pistols, thirty-five per
centum ad valorem." The importers, bn November 15, 1890,
filed with the collector, under § 14 of the act of June 10, 1890,
c. 407, (26 Stat. 137,) a notice in writing, addressed to him,
objecting. to the decision of the collector, and stating their
reasons for so doing. That notice in writing, called a "protest," claimed that the articles were only parts of guns, and
were dutiable at 45 per cent ad valorem, under paragraph 215
of Schedule C of the act of October 1, 1890, (p. 582,) which
reads as follows: "215. Manufactures, articles or wares not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act, composed
wholly or in part of iron, steel, lead, copper, nickel, pewter,
zinc, gold, silver, platinum, aluminum, or any other metal,
and whether partly or wholly manufactured, forty-five per
centum ad valorem." The protest stated that the articles in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

question were simply parts or accompaniments intended for
use in the manufacture of guns or muskets, were not guns or
muskets, and could not be classed as such completed commodities.
Under § 24 of the act of June 10, 1890, the collector, on the
16ch of December, 1890, transmitted to the three general appraisers on duty at the port of New York the invoice, entry,
and protest. The assistant appraiser had reported to the appraiser, November 28, 1890, that the articles in question were
"gunstocks, with mountings complete, ready for attachment
to the barrels, which arrived by another shipment," and that
"the gunstocks and barrels, when attached, make doublebarreled breech-loading shotguns, complete." The collector,
in his communication to the general appraisers, referred to the
foregoing report of the assistant appraiser, and stated that the
merchandise was returned by the appraiser upon the invoice
as "breech-loading shotguns," invoiced at a value not over $6
each, and that he had assessed duty on them, under paragraph
170, at the rate of 35 per cent ad valorem and $1.50 each.
The board of general appraisers took the testimony of Mr.
Daly, one of the importing firm, on December 19, 1890, and it
isset forth in the margin.' In it9 report to the collector,
I Protest in the matter of importation of certain gunstocks by Messrs.
Schoverling, Daly & Gales. Statement of Mr. Daly. Examined by Gen.
App. SO-MERVILLEr: Q. You. are a member of the firm of Schoverling, Daly
& Gales? A. Yes, sir. Q. Where are you doing business? A. In New
York. Q. This importation, as I understand you, consists of this item
marked 225 here, finished gunstocks, witli locks and mountings? A. That
is it. Q. Shotguns? A. They are parts of shotguns; parts of breechloading shotguns. Q. When did you make this order for this importation?
A. I telegraphed for it a short time before this invoice. Q. How many of
these are there here? A. Twelve of these finished gunstocks. Q. Did you
at the same time order the other parts of these guns to be sent? A. I did
not. That is all we received. We never received the barrels. Q. You
made no order for the barrels? A. No, sir. (Reference made in the special
report of the appraiser to protests of Schoverling, Daly & Gales against
the assessment of duty at the rate of 35 per cent, etc.) Q. What we want
to know is whether the barrels of these guns have arrived by another shipment, within your knowledge? A. As a member of the firm of Schoverling,
Daly & Gales, I do not know it, because we have never received any invoice.
Q. Ngever made any order? A. No, sir. Q. Have you any agreement with

UNITED STATES v. SCIIOVERLING
Opinion of the Court.

signed by all three of its members, it is said that if the importation was simply one of gunstocks, without the gun-barrels
required to make a complete fire-arm, and the case rested
there, the articles could not be regarded as completed guns,
so as to be dutiable under paragraph 170; that the testimony
of Daly disclosed the facts that the firm of Schoverling, Daly
& Gales had imported the gunstocks in question, and had made
an agreement with another firm by which the latter were to
order the barrels, with the mutual expectation that the stocks
and barrels, after arriving at New York, were to be put together so as to make complete guns; that Schoverling was a
member of both firms thus colluding together; that such a
mode of evading the payment of duties could not be tolerated ;
and that the decision of the collector was affirmed.
On the 6th of January, 1891, the importers, under § 15 of
the act of June 10, 1890, applied to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, for a
review of the questions of law and fact involved in such decision of the board of general appraisers, by filing in the
office of the clerk of said court a statement of the errors of
law and fact complained of, which were that the duty had
been assessed on the articles at 81.50 each and 35 per cent ad
valorem, while it should have been assessed under paragraph
215 at 45 per cent ad valorem, only.: On the filing of the
application, the Circuit Court made an order that the board
of general appraisers return to the court the record and the
evidence, with a certified statement of the facts involved and
their decision thereon.
any other firm that they were to order the barrels of these guns? A. Yes;
we have. Q. With the expectation on your part that they were to be put
together here? A. Yes, sir. Q. Have those other importations been received by the other firms? A. A good many of them, I guess, are in bond.
Q. What firms did you have an understanding of this nature with? A.
With A. Schoverling. Q. Is he a partner in your house? A. Yes, sir; he
is a partner in the firm of Schoverling, Daly & Gales, and also runs a separate business. Mr. Tmc.nNoit: Q. Do you think the trade generally adopted
this plan? A. I think they all have received goods in the same way. We
have imported those stocks with the intention of putting them with the
other parts imported by these other parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 22d of January, 1891, the board of general appraisers
filed in the court their return, embodying the protest of
November 15, 1890, the assistant appraiser's report of iNovember 28, 1890, the collector's communication of December 16,
1890, the testimony of Daly, and the opinion and decision of
the board. The case was argued before the Circuit Court,
held by Judge Lacombe, which entered an order, on March 20,
1391, reversing and setting aside the decision of the collector
and that of the board of general appraisers, and adjudging
that the merchandise should have been classified and assessed
with duty at the rate of 45 per cent ad valorem, under paragraph 215 6f the act, as "manufactures, articles, or wares, not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act; composed
in part of iron or steel." The opinion of the Circuit
Court is reported in 45 Fed. Rep. 349. It stated that there
was no evidence that the articles were ever assembled or
brought together with the gun-barrels on the other side; that
there was no finding to that effect by the appraisers; that if
there were such a finding of fact, the court would be constrained
to reverse it, because there was no evidence in the record to
support it; that, for all that appeared, the gunstocks might
have been, bought from one manufacturer and the gun-barrels
from another; that the tariff act laid a duty upon "sporting,
breech-loading shotguns," and laid a separate and different
duty~upon the parts of which such shotguns were composed,
as manufactures in whole or in part of metal; that it could be
fairly assumed that Congress, by that terminology, meant to
allow importers who chose to do so, to bring in fragments
of a combination article by different shipments, and then to
employ domestic labor in putting them together; that it might
have been intended to induce inporters to employ to that extent the labor of this country, instead of having the article
combined abroad; that, under the language of the statute,
there was nothing in the shipment in questiofi except gunstocks mounted, articles which were properly described in the
act only by the phrase" manufactures composed wholly or in
part of metal;" and that, therefore, they should pay that duty
and no other.

UNITED STATES v. SCHOVERLING.
Opinioni of the Court.

On March 20, 1891, the Attorney General of the United
States, under § 15, of the act of June 10, 1890, applied to the
Circuit Court for the allowance of an appeal to this court from
the decision and judgment of the Circuit Court. On the same
day, the application was granted, the appeal was allowed, and
it has here been heard.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be affirmed. The contention on the part of the United
States is that the transaction, as conducted, was a fraud upon
the statute. But the question was solely as to the gunstocks.
Sampson v. Peamlee, 20 How. 571. There is not in the statute, in ,paragraph 170, or elsewhere, any imposition of duty
on parts of breech-loading shotguns, except the provision in
paragraph 215. There is no duty otherwise imposed on materials for such guns.
In the act of October 1, 1890, in paragraph 154, a duty is
imposed on "axles, or parts thereof;" in paragraph 165, on
"penknives or pocketknives of all kinds, or parts thereof;"
in paragraph 185, on " wheels, or parts thereof," and "tires, or
parts thereof;" and in paragraph 210, on chronometers "and
parts thereof."
In the present case, the intent of the importers to put the
gunstocks with barrels separately imported, so as to make
here completed guns for sale, cannot 4ffect the rate of duty
on the gunstocks as 6 separate importation. -Merrittv. Welsh,
104 U. S. 694.
In Robertson v. Gerdan, 132 U. S. 454, the statute had imposed a duty on musical instruments, and had not imposed the
same duty on parts of 'musical instruments; and it was held
that pieces of ivory for 'the keys of pianos or organs, to be
used exclusively for suph musical instruments, and made on
purpose for such instruments, were not dutiable as musical
instruments, but were liable to a less duty, as manufactures of
ivory.
We do not think the decision in Falk v. Robertson, 137
U. S. 225, applies to the present case. It nowhere appears
that these gunstocks had formed part of completed guns in
Europe, nor was the question of the importation of the barrels
VOL. C

LVI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1892
Syllabus.

for the guns involved. In the present case, the dutiable classification of the gunstocks imported must be ascertained by ar
examination of them in the condition in which they are im
ported. Worthington v. Robbins, 139 U. S. 337.
Reference is made by the counsel for the United States to
the provision of § 2 of the act of January 29, 1795, (1 Stat.
411,) which reads as follows: "Where any article is, by any
law of the United States, made subject to the payment of
duties, the parts thereof, when imported separately, shall be
subject to the payment of the same rate of duties," as not
having been repealed. In 1 Stat. 411, opposite the act is the
That provision is not embodied in the
word "[Obsolete.]"
we think it was limited to the case of
and
Revised Statutes,
duties then imposed by law, and did not Apply to duties imposed by subsequent tariff, acts. Tariff acts passed subsequently to the act of 1795 have provided that the duties theretofore imposed by law on imported merchandise should
cease and determine. If the pr.ovision of the act of 1795 had
been still in force when the tariff act of 1890 was enacted, it
would have been wholly unnecessary in -the latter act to irpose a duty on parts of articles, as well as on the articles
themselves, in cases where it was deemed proper to impose
such duty upon parts.
This appeal was prosecuted as against the firm, but this
defect may be cured by amendment, and the motion to that
effect is granted. .Estisv. Trabue, 128 U. S.225.
Judgment ajflrmed.

CROSS v. BURKE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
1No.1105. Argued November 1, 1892.-

Decided NDvember 14,1892.

This court has no jurisdiction over judgments of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia on habeas corpus.
The statutes op this subject reviewed.

