OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

THIs was an action begun and prosecuted to judgment in a
Circuit Court of the State of Kentucky. From that judgment
appeal and cross-appeal were taken to the Court of Appeals of
the State. That court, after hearing, ordered "that said judgment be reversed on the original appeal and affirmed on'the
cross-appeal and cause remanded for further proceedings consistent with the opinion herein, which is ordered to be certified
to said court."
The case was brought here by writ of error, to review a
Federal question.
-Mr. T.

E. Burnett and -Mr.
H. H.

ane for plaintiff in

error.
-Mr. F.J. Lisle for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JusncE: The writ of error is dismissed upon
the authority of -Yeagherv. AMinnesota Co., 145 U. S. 608; Rice
v. Sanger, 144 U. S. 197; Johnson v. Keith, 117 U. S. 199.

IMEANS v. BANK OF RANDALL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 63. Submitted December 2, 1892.-Decided December 19, 1892.

L. desiring to purchase qattle from P., a bank paid the purchase money for
L. to P., and P. delivered the cattle to the bank, and they were shipped
by rail to AT., in sIx cars, to sell, accompanied by P. and L. and one G.
A-bill of lading for four of the-cars was issued in the name of L. A bill
of lading was to be issued for the other two cars in the name of G., as a
pass could be issued to only two persons on one bill of lading. G. had
no interest in the cattle. The cattle in the six cars were delivered to M.
A draft was drawn by L. against the shipment on M., and endorsed and
delivered by L. to the bank, with the bill of lading for the four cars.
The draft and bill of lading were presented to M., but the draft was not
accepted .or paid. Three hours afterwards M. sold the cattle but kept
the proceeds because he claimed that L. was indebted to him on an old

MEANS v. BANK- OF RANDALL.
Opinion of the Court.
account. Held, that the bank was entitled to recover the proceeds
from M.
The bank had a lien upon, and a pledge of, all the cattle.
The transfer of the bill of lading was a transfer of the ownership of the
cattle covered by it.
There was a verbal mortgage or pledge to the bank of the two car loads,
and G. represented P., and through him the bank.
It was proper for the trial court, as a question of law, to direct a verdict
for the bank.
The question whether a trial shall be postponed on account of the absence
of a witness for the defendant, and the illness of one of his counsel, is a
matter of sound discretion and will not be reviewed where no abuse is
shown.
No specific instructions were prayed for by the defendant, and no request
was made to direct a verdict for him, but he only requested the court
generally to submit instructions to the jury.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. B. P. TFaggener and Mr. H. X. Jackeson for plaintiffs
inerror.
-Mr. Edward H. Stiles and -Mr. (harles Blood Smith for
defendant in error.
MiR- JUSTIoE BLATOHFOID delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought in the district court for the county
of Cloud, in the State of Kansas, by the Bank of Randall, a
Kansas corporation, doing business at Randall, in that State,
against C. G. Means, W. W. Means, and C. H. Means, copartners as C. G-. Means & Sons, to recover $6700, $4 protest fees,
and $402 damages. The suit was accompanied by an attachment, and, before answer, was removed by the defendants,
who were citizens of Missouri, into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas.
The amended petition filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States set forth the following cause of action: On
September 14, 1887, one Patterson was the owner of 98 cattle,
of the value of $6700, which he agreed to sell to one Lyons,
who applied to one Bramwell, the cashier and agent of the

622

OCTOBER TERW, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff, for a loan of $6700, to pay for the cattle, until he
could ship them to Kansas City and sell them. It was agreed
by Patterson, Lyons and the plaintiff, that if the plaintiff
would advance and pay to Patterson $6600 and 8100 for expenses, the plaintiff should have a lien upon the cattle, and
retain the title.to them, until the money was repaid; that the
cattle should be shipped by Lyons as consignor, by way of the
Missouri Pacific Railroad, to the defendants at Kansas City,
Missouri; and that four car-loads of the cattle were to be
shipped in the name of Lyons as consignor, and two car-loads
in the name of one Guthrie as consignor. The defendants
were engaged at the time in buying and selling live stock at
Kan~as City. In pursuance of that agreement, Patterson sold
and delivered the 98 cattle to Lyons, and the plaintiff paid to
Patterson the $6700. Lyons delivered the cattle on board the
cars of the railroad company, in the town of Randall, consigned to the defendants at Kansas City, and received from
the railroad company one bill of lading, for four cars, by
which that company acknowledged the receipt of the cattle
from Lyons, and agreed to deliver them to the defendants at
Kansas City. This bill of lading Lyons endorsed and delivered to the plaintiff. No bill of lading was issued to Guthrie,
but by hgreement between the agent of the railroad company, Lyons, and the plaintiff, two cars were loaded each with
16 steers, and shipped to the defendants at Kansas City, as
consignees, and Guthrie as consignor. The four cars for which
the bill of lading was issued in the name of Lyons contained
66 steers in all. It was agreed by the company, Lyons and
the plaintiff, that the plaintiff waived no title to the steers, or
to the money to be derived from their sale, by permitting
them to be shipped in the name of Guthrie; and that they
should be delivered to the- defendants with the other steers,
and the proceeds be applied to the payment of the $6700.
Thereupon, Lyons drew his draft on the defendants, dated
September 11, 1887, whereby he directed them to pay to his
order $6700, at sight, in Kansas City, which draft he endorsed
alid delivered to the plaintiff. The 98 steers were transported
by the railroad company to Kansas City, and to the stock-

MEANS v. BANK OF RtANDALL.
Opinion of the Court.

yards there, and on September 15, 1887, at 9 o'clock A.m. delivered to the defendants according to the contract set out in
the bill of lading. The defendants received the steers, sold

them for account of Lyons, converted the proceeds to their
own use and benefit, and refused to pay the plaintiff for any
of them or render to it any account of sales. At the time the
steers were delivered to the defendants, the latter were advised
by Lyons that the plaintiff had advanced the money to pay
for the steers, and that Lyons had drawn his draft on the defendants and assigned it to the plaiitiff. By those transactions, the plaintiff became the owner of the steers, and entitled
to their proceeds. On September 15, 1887, at 11 o'clock A.M.
the draft and bill of lading were presented to the cashier of
the defendants, at their office in the Kansas City stock-yards,
and payment demanded. The cashier, after examining the
draft, directed the bank messengers who brought it to leave
it at the Stock-Yards Bank, promising to pay it if they would
do so. The draft was so deposited, and at 2.30 o'clock P.m.
of the same day was presented by the messengers of that bank
to the defendants at their office, payment was refused, and the
draft was protested for non-payment. When the draft and
bill of lading were first presented to the defendants, the steers
had not been disposed of by them, and were being received by
them from the cars. For more than twelve months before
September 14, 1887, Lyons bad been engaged in shipping
stock to the defendants, and accustomed to drawing drafts in
favor of the plaintiff and others against such shipments, and
transferring the bills of lading and cattle so shipped to the
parties holding such drafts on account of the shipments. The
defendants, before September 15, 1887, were accustomed to
and did pay all such drafts, and had never refused payment
of any of the same. The defendants had not paid to the
plaintiff any part of the $6700.
The defence set up in the answer to the amended petition
was, that before the shipment of the cattle the defendants
advanced to Lyons more than $7500, to be used by him to
buy cattle for them, with the agTeement that the cattle, when
purchased, should be delivered by him to the defendants to

OCTOBER TERfM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

be' sold by them on account of such advances, and that the
cattle were to be delivered on board of the cars at Randall,
Kansas; that the cattle in question were delivered to the
defendants at Randall on board of the cars; that four cars
thereof were consigned to the defendants as per the bill of
lading; that io bill of lading was issued for the tw o cars
shipped by Guthrie; that all of the cattle, at the time they
were delivered to the defendants, were their property and in
their possession before the bill of lading was delivered to the
plaintiff ; that Lyons and Guthrie accompanied the cattle from
Randall to Kansas City and remained with them while in
transit; that when the cattle reached Kansas City the defendants took them from the cars with the knowledge and authority of Lyons and Guthrie, and with like knowledge and
authority sold the cattle and applied the proceeds in payment
of the amount so advanced to Lyons; that the bill of lading
was never endorsed to the plaintiff, and the latter had no right
or authority, by virtue of its corporate power, to receive the
same or take any title to it or the property represented by it;
that the defendants had no knowledge or notice that Lyons
had drawn any draft on them until the cattle had been received and sold by them and the proceeds applied as aforesaid;
that the draft was not drawn with the knowledge, consent or
authority of the defendants or any one of them; that, as to
the two cars of cattle, no bill of lading was issued by the railroad company, and no delivery thereof, symbolic or otherwise,
was made to the plaintiff; that the plaintiff did not have
possession of any of the cattle at any time; and that the
defendants had no notice that the plaintiff claimed to have any
interest therein or lien thereon.
The case was tried before a jury, which was directed by the
court to render a verdict f6rthe plaintiff for $6681.55. The
defendants objected and excepted to such direction, and prayed
the court to submit instructions to the jury on the pleadings
and evidence, which prayer the court refused, and to such
refusal the defendants excepted. The verdict was rendered
accordingly, and a judgment was entered thereon in favor of
the plaintiff Against the defendants for $6681.55. The defend-

MEANS v. BANK OF RANDALL.
Opinion of the Court.

ants made a motion for a new trial, which was denied; and
then the court signed a bill of exceptions containing all the
evidence offered or received on the trial. The defendants
then sued out from this court a writ of error.
The evidence shows the following state of facts: Patterson
owned the 98 head of cattle, which Lyons desired to buy, but
he did hot have the means. Lyons, in company with Patterson, applied to Bramwell, the cashier and agent of the plaintiff,
to borrow from it $6700 to pay for the cattle and the expense
of their shipment, until they could be sold at Kdnsas City.
The plaintiff, after its cashier had examined the cattle and
become satisfied that they would be sufficient security, agreed
to pay the purchase price of them to Patterson, on the express
condition that the plaintiff should have a lien upon, and a
pledge of, the cattle as its security for making the advance,
until they were shipped to and sold by the consignee at Kansas City. To that end, it was agreed that delivery of the
cattle should be made by Patterson to the plaintiff, which was
done, and that the plaintiff should have the title to, and right
of possession of, the cattle until they were sold by the consignee and the plaintiff was reimbursed from the proceeds.
Patterson, at the request and as the representative of the
plaintiff, was to go with the cattle to Kansas City. The defendants' firm was selected as the consignee to receive and sell
the cattle, which wer6 shipped accordingly, on September 14,
1887, in six cars of the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company,
accompanied by Patterson, Lyons and Guthrie. Guthrie
desired to get a pass to Kansas City, and Lyons had arranged
with him to go with the cattle. As under the rules of the
railroad company, only two persons could get passes on account of a single shipment or billing of cattle, four of the cars
were to be billed as shipped by Lyons, and the other two as
shipped by Guthrie. A bill of lading for the four cars was
issued by the company in the name of Lyons; but as Guthrie
had not yet arrived, no bill of lading was issued to him for
the two cars, but they were billed to him in his absence.
Lyons transacted that part of the business with the agent of
the railroad company, Bramwell being then at the balk. The
VOL. CxLVI-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

cattle were started on September 14, 1887, and reached the
Kansas City stock-yards about 9 o'clock A.M.. on September
15. After they were unloaded into the chutes of the StockYards Company, they were delivered to the defendants, and
between 2 and 3 o'clock P.m. on September 15 were sold by
them to the Armour Packing Company for $6133.
At the time of the arrangement for the advance of the purchase money by the plaintiff, it was agreed that a draft for
the amount advanced should be drawn by Lyons against the
shipment on the defendants, to be accepted by them and paid
out of the proceeds of the sale of the cattle. The draft was
drawn and was endorsed and delivered by Lyons to the plaintiff, together with the bill of lading which had been issued for
the four car-loads. On September 14, 1887, the plaintiff forwarded this draft, with the bill of lading attached to it, to the
Bank of Commerce, its correspondent at Kansas City, for collection. It was received by that bank early on the following
morning, and was given to its messenger for presentation and
collection at the office of the defendants, which was in the
Live Stock Exchange Building, at the stock-yards. Between
10 and 11 o'clock A.M. of the same day, and more than three
hours before the defendants sold the cattle, the draft and bill
of lading were presented by the messenger at the counter of
the defendants, to their agent in charge of their office, who,
after examining those papers, returned them to the messenger
and told him to leave them at the Stock-Yards Bank, this
being the custom at the stock-yards with respect to drafts
which the messengers of other banks failed to collect on presentation. Between 2 and 3 o'clock P.M. of the same day, the
draft was presented by the collector of the Stock-Yards Bank
at the office of the defendants for payment; and between
3 and 4 o'clock P.m. of thif day, it was presented by the
cashier of that bank, and formerly protested by him for nonpayment. The defendants converted the proceeds of the sale
of the cattle to their own use and refused to pay the draft.
giving as their reason for so doing that Lyons was indebted to
them ,on an old account, and that they had a right to apply
those proceeds thereon.

MEANS v. BANK OF RANDALL.
Opinion of the Court.

There was no dispute about the foregoing facts. In addition, Patterson and Lyons testified that on the morning of
September 15, 1887, the day when. the cattle reached Kansas
City, one of the defendants was notified personally that the
plaintiff had paid for the cattle, and that a draft therefor had
been drawn on the defendants and delivered to the plaintiff.
No money was paid by the defendants, and the only justification attempted by them.,was their claim of a right to apply
the proceeds of thz cattle on their- old account against Lyons.
It is very clear that the furnishing by the plaintiff of the
purchase money for the cattle, on the faith of the agreement
by Lyons that they and their proceeds would be security for
the amount, and that a draft would be drawn therefor on the
consignee against the cattle, with the further agreement that
a bill of lading was to be obtained and turned over to the
plaintiff, constituted a lien uponand a pledge of all the cattle,
so far as the defendants were concerned, they having acquired
na new rights, and not having changed their position in any
essential respect, on account of the transaction, even though
the bill of lading issued did not by its terms include the two
car-loads shipped in the name of Guthrie.
As to the four car-loads named in the bill of lading, that
instrument represented the cattle; and the transfer of the
ownership as well as of th6 right of possession wis made as
effectually by the transfer of the bill as it could have been by
a physical delivery of the cattle. Conardv. Atlantic Ins. Co.,
1 Pet. 386, 445; Dows v."Hat. Exchange Bank, 91 U. S. 618.
When the bill of lading was transferred and delivered as
collateral security, the rights, of the pledgee under it were the
same as those of an actual purchaser, so far as the exercise of
those rights was necessary to protect the holder.'Halsey v.
Warden, 25 Kansas, 128; Emery v. Bank, 25 Ohio St. 360;
Dows v'.*at. Exchange Bank, 91 U. S. 618; Bank v. .Homeyer,
45 Missouri, 145 ; Bank of Green Bay v. DeaAorn, 115 Mlass.
219 ' Bank of .Rochester v. Jones, 4 Comstock, (4 N. Y.) 497;
folmes v. German Security Bank, 87 Penn. St. 525.
--A bank which makes advances on a bill of lading has a lien
to the extent of the advances, on the property in the hands

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of the consignee, and can recover from him the proceeds of
the property consigned, even though the consignor be indebted
to the consignee on general account; and the consignee cannot appropriate the property or its proceeds to his own use
in payment of a prior debt. Conard v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1
Pet. 3S6; Gibson v. Stevens, 8 How. 384; 3 Parsons on Contracts, 487.
As to the two car-loads shipped or billed in the name of
Guthrie, for which no bill of lading was issued, Guthrie had
no interest in them, and the shipment in his name was merely
to procure for him a pass from the railroad company. What
took place between Lyons and the cashier of the plaintiff, at
the time when the draft and the bill of lading were delivered
to the plaintiff, amounted, as to the two car-loads, to a verbal
mortgage or pledge of the cattle in those two cars to the
plaintiff, to secure its advance, and on the faith of it the advance was made. There is no conflict of testimony on this
subject. There was a verbal mortgage or pledge of all the
cattle to the plaintiff as security for its advance. Patterson
delivered all the cattle to the plaintiff, and, at its request and
as its agent, he was placed in charge of and accompanied the
shipment. Guthrie, if representing any one, represented Patterson and through him the plaintiff. Patterson arranged
with Guthrie that the latter should go.
As the verbal mortgage or pledge included all the cattle,
and was accompanied by a delivery, it was good, at least as
against the defendants, irrespective of any question of notice.
The defendants were chosen as factors, they having before
acted for the same parties in similar transactions, where drafts
had been drawn on them against the shipments. They did
not advance any money on account of this shipment, they
parted with no interest, relinquished no legal right, and stood
in no better position to dispute the validity of the mortgage
or pledge than did Lyons himself. It was perfectly valid
as against Lyons, and he could not have been heard to dispute it.

But the defendants .had notice that the draft had been
drawn by Lyons against the cattle and had been endorsed to

MEANS v. BANK OF RANDALL.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff, and this was soon after the arrival of. the cattle
at Kansas City and several hours before they were sold. The
draft was presented for payment, accompanied by the bill of
lading, at the counter in the office of the defendants, and to
their agent in sole charge there, between 10 and 11 o'clock A.M.
of the day on which the cattle arrived; and the sale of the
cattle to the Armour Packing Company was not made until
between 2 and 3 o'clock P.m. on that, day. Therefore, the
defendants had legal notice of the existence and presentation
of the draft and the bill of lading, between three and four hours
before they sold the cattle and received the proceeds. They
cannot occupy the position of innocent purchasers of the cattle.
The question resulting from the facts of the case was purely
a question of law; and the verdict for the plaintiff was properly directed. If the question had been submitted to the jury,
and they had found a verdict for the defendants, it would
have been the duty of the court to set it aside.
In addition, the evid.ence shows that one of the defendants
had explicit notice from Patterson and Lyons, shortly after
the cattle arrived at Kansas City, that the plaintiff had advanced the money to pay for them, and that the draft was
out against the defendants therefor.
The foregoing views are supported by the following cases:
National Bank v. Porter, 73 Californin, 430; Darlington v.
Chamberlin, 120 Illinois, 585 ; Bates v. Wigginr, 37 Kansas, 44;
.Morrow v. Turney, 35 Alabama, 131.
It is contended by the defendants that the Circuit Court
erred in denying their motion for a postponement of the trial
of the cause, based on the absence of a witness named Wells,
and the illness of Mr. Waggener, one of their counsel.
Bucrthe testimony sought to be given by Wells was immaterial and incompetent. The question of the postponement of
a trial is one ordinarily addressed to the sound discretion of
the trial court, and in the present case no abuse of that discretion is shown. The defendants really had no defence to
the suit; and the bill of exceptions shows that all which they
could, under any circumstances, make out of their attempted
defence was availed of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

The bill of exceptions shows that the only position taken
by the defenda'nts at the close of the evidence was a prayer to
the court "to submit instructions to the jury upon the pleadings and evidence." No specific instructions were prayed for,
and no request was made to direct a verdict for the defendants.

The defendants contented themselves with objecting and excepting to the direction of a verdict for the plaintiffs, and to

the refusal of the court generally to submit instructions to the
Judgment affirmed.
jury.

LLOYD v. PRESTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No.59.

Argued November 29, 30, 1892. -Decided

December 1, 1892.

In 1881, H., a citizen of Ohio, through P., M. and others of Chicago, speculated in grain in the markets of the latter city, lost money, and settled
with his Chicago creditors by agreeing to convert a narrow gauge railroad in Ohio, which he owned, into a standard gauge, and to extend the
same to places named in the agreement, and to organize a new company
to take the property thus altered and extended, and to cause the new
company to issue bonds which the creditors were to take in satisfaction of their respective debts. The company was organized; the stock
and bonds were issued and delivered to 11., except a small amount of
stock which was issued to sundry persons to enable them to become
directors; and H. passed over the property to the company. The value
of the property so conveyed was very much less than the face value of
the stock and bonds so issued for it. No money payments of subscriptioq to the stock were made by H. to the company. The railway company soon became insolvent, and in 1885, after recovery of judgments
against it for amounts due and payable on its bonds, P., AT. and the
other creditors fileda bill in ejuity to compel H. to pay his subscriptions
in cash. A part of the stock of H. having been passed over to L., the
bill set forth that that transfr had been made for the benefit of H., and
sought to make H. liable in like manner for that stock. H. answered to
the bill. Afterwards he became insolvent, and made an assignment of
his estate for the benefit of his creditors. The assignee then appeared,
and set up that the only consideration for the original debts of P., M.
and others was an illegal gambling transaction, by betting upon future

