.252

OCTOBER TERIM: 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

TOPLITZ v. HEDDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

SOUTHERIN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
.No. 45. Argued November 16, 1802.-Decided November 23,1892.

Imported articles, used as bead-coverings for men, invoiced as " Scotch
bonnets," and entered, some as "worsted knit bonnets," and others as
"worsted caps," and made of wool, knitted on frames, were liable tf
duty as "knit goods made on knitting frames," under "Schedule K,
Wool and Woollens," of § 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by
6 of the act of March 3, 1883,, c. 21, (22 Stat. 509,) and not under
"Schedule N, - Sundries," oi the same section, § 2502, p. 511, as "bonnets, hats and hoods for men, women and children."
Testimony held competent, on the cross-examination of a witness, as affecting his credibility, in view of contradictory statements which lie had
made.
An exception to a copy of a paper is unavailing, where both sides treated it
as a copy, and no ground of objection to it as evidence is set forth.
It was proper, in an action brought by the importer against the coliector, to
recover duties paid under protest, for the defendant to show that the
articles were not known, on or immediately before March 3, 1883, in
trade and commerce as "1bonnets for men."
It was right oit the evidence for the court to direct a verdict for the defendant, especially as the plaintiff refused to go to the jury on the question
as to whether on March 3, 1883, the word " bonnet" had in this country
a well-known technical, commercial designation such as would cover the
goods in question.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr; Edwin B. Simith for plaintiffs in error.
-fMr. Solicitor General for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFOkD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought by Lippman Toplitz and
Herman Schwarz, composing the firm of L. Toplitz & Co.,
against Edward L. Hedden, late collector of the port of New

TOPLITZ v. HEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

York, to recover the sum of $6896.06, as an excess of duties
paid under protest by the plaintiffs on 24 importations made
into the port of iNew York from Glasgow, in Scotland, from
July, 1885, to December, 1885, both inclusive. The suit was
commenced in the Superior Court of the city of New York, in
July, 1886, and removed by the defendant, by certiorari,into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. At the trial before Judge Lacombe and
a jury, in January, 1888, the court directed a verdict for the
defendant, which was rendered, and judgment was entered
thereon against the plaintiffs in November, 1888, to review
which the plaintiffs have brought a writ of error.
In the invoices of the articles imported, they were described
as "Scotch bonnets;" and in the entries thereon at the customhouse they were, in some, described as " worsted knit bonnets,"
and in others as " worsted caps." The collector assessed duties
upon them as "knit goods, made on knitting frames," under
the following provisions of "Schedule K. -Wool and Woollens," of § 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by § 6 of
the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 509, c. 121: "Flannels,
blankets, hats of wool, knit goods, and all goods made on
knitting frames, balmorals, woollen and worsted yarns, and
all manufactures of every description, composed wholly or in
part of worsted, the hair of the alpaca, goat or other animals,
(except such as are composed in part of wool,) not specially
enumerated or provided for in this act, valued at not exceeding thirty cents per pound, ten cents per pound; valued at
above thirty cents per pound, and not exceeding. forty cents
per pound, twelve cents per pound; valued at above forty
cents per pound, and not exceeding sixty cents per pound,
eignteen cents per pound; valued at above sixty cents per
pound, and not exceeding eighty cents per pound, twenty-four
cents per pound; and in addition thereto upon all the abovenamed articles, thirty-five per centum ad valorem; valued at
above eighty cents per pound, thirt) -five cents per pound, and
in addition thereto forty per centum ad valorem." The goods
were shown to be made of wool, knitted on frames.
The plaintiffs duly protested against the assessment of more

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

than 30 per cent ad valorem, claiming that the goods were
dutiable under the following provision of "Schedule N.Sundries," of the same § 2502, page 511: "Bqnnets, hats and
hoods for men, women and children, composed of chip, grass.
palm-leaf, willow or straw, or any other vegetable substa
hair, whalebone or other material, not specially enumeratekt
or provided for in this act, thirty per centum ad valorem."
They contended that, under that provision, the articles were
"bonnets for men." The court, in directing the verdict for
the defendant, gave its reasons for doing so, which are reported in 33 Fed. Rep. 617. Various errors are assigned.
(1) One of the plaintiffs, having been examined as a witness for them, testified, on cross-examination, that he had had
a suit against the government other than the one on trial,
under the old tariff; and he was further asked on crossexamination : "Was the claim then that these goods are caps
made on frames?" To this question the plaintiffs objected, on
the ground that the record was the best evidence of the claim.
The court overruled the objection, and the plaintiffs duly
excepted. The witness answered: "Yes; I think that is it.
Similar goods were concerned in that."
The plaintiffs contend that the matter of a claim regarding
similar goods under the different phraseology of an earlier
tariff, was immaterial. We think that the question was a
competent one, as affecting the credibility. of the witness.
He had testified in this case, on his direct examination, that
the goods in question were Scotch bonnets, were known in
this country as Scotch bonnets, and sold as such, and that
they were called bonnets more frequently than caps. It was
proper to show, on cross-examination of the witness, that he
had made contradictory statements, oral or written, on the
subject;" and if he wished to appeal to the prior record, to
refresh his recollection, he could call for it and do so. But
the evidence as offered was competent, irrespectively of the
prior record.
(2) The same witness was asked, on cross-examination,
whether he remembered that, in the summer of 18S2, when
a bill was pending before Congress to amend the statutes bv

TOPLITZ v. HEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

excluding wool goods from the provision for caps and other
articles made on frames, his firm addressed a letter to Hon.
S. S. Cox, a member of Congress from the city of New York,
protesting against the passage of that law. The plaintiffs
objected to that question as immaterial, and because the
witness had no right to state the contents of the letter, and
because the letter itself would be the best evidence. The'
court overruled the objection, and the plaintiffs duly excepted.
The witness answered that his firm wrote such a letter.
He was then shown what purported to be a copy of that
letter, and asked if it was a copy. This was objected to
on the ground that the original was not produced, but the
objection was overruled, and the plaintiffs duly excepted.
The defendant then offered the copy in evidence, and the
plaintiffs objected; but the court overruled the objection, and
the plaintiffs duly excepted. The copy was then read in
evidence, and is set forth in the record.
The plaintiffs contend that the copy was read in evidence
without any proof that it was a copy. What was before said
as to the first assignment of error is applicable here also.
The objection that there was no proof that the copy was a
copy is not taken in the bill of exceptions. The copy was
treated by both sides as a copy, and the bill of :exceptions
merely states that when the defendant offered the copy in
evidence, the plaintiffs objected; but no ground of objection
is set forth. The exception, therefore, is upavailing. Camden
v. Doremus, 3 How. 515 ; United States v. Xc.Afasters, 4 Wall.
6SO; Burton v. Driggs, 20 Wall. 125; Evanston v. Gunn, 99
U: S. 660.
\
It appeared from the letter to Mr. Cox that it was written
when the tariff act of 1883 was pending before Congress; th-t
the letter related to woollen knitted caps,.worn by men; and
that it protested against the existing duty on such articles,
and against any increase, of duty upon them. It appears by
the record that Mr. Schwarz, one of the plaintiffs, appeared
before the tariff committee in October, 1882, and made a
statement with regard to the duties on those articles, as an
importer of "Scotch caps," "to speak in regard to the tariff

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

on worsted and knitted goods," and stated that L. Toplitz &
Co. were importers of "worsted knitted caps," which were
"classed as worsted and knitted goods." It also appeared
that the sign over the plaintiffs' place of business in New
York City was "Importers of Scotch caps."
(3) The defendant called a witness who was asked on direct
examination the following question: "Please state by what
name,on the 3d of :March, 1883, or immediately prior thereto,
these goods were known in trade and commerce." The plaintiffs objected to that question on the ground, first, that Congress in the enactment did not have reference to commercial
designation; and second, that the time to which the question
referred should be stated more definitely. The court overruled the objection and the plaintiffs excepted. The witness
answered, "Scotch caps." The following question was then
put to him: "Please state whether, on the 3d of March, 1883,
or immediately prior thereto, these goods were known in
trade and commerce as bonnets for men." The plaintiffs
objected to that question as immaterial,, and for the same
reason as before, the objection was overruled, the plaintiffs
excepted, and the witness Answered, "No, sir." The same
course of examination was pursued in regard to several witnesses introduced by the defendant.
It is contended by the plaintiffs that the phrase, "Bonnets,
hats and hoods for men,-women and children," is not a commercial Olesignation, but is only descriptive; and the case of
Barber v. So/tell, 107 U. S. 617, 621, is cited. But we think
no error was committed in admitting the testimony; and that
it was important to ascertain the commercial name of the
article in question. If no such term as "bonnets," applicable
to head coverings for men, was known or used in this country
in Mlarch, 1SS3, and if, even though known before, the ternr
was then obsolete, it would follow that it could not have been
intended to apply the term to goods which were specifically
described elsewhere in the acts as "goods made on knitting
frames." If the commercial designation of the article gave
it its proper place in the classification of the statute, resort
to the common designation was unnecessary and improper.

"TOPLITZ v. HEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

Arthur v. Lahey, 96 U. S. 112, 118; Barber v. Schell, 107
U. S. 617, 623; lMorthington v. Abbot, 124 U. S. 434, 436;
Arthur v. Butterfeld, 125 U. S. 70, 75; Robertson v. Salomon,
130 U. S. 412, 415.
The evidence shows that the goods in question were known
commercially in the United States as "caps," and not as
" bonnets," and that "caps" was also the common designation. It cannot be properly said that the statute uses the
phrase "bonnets for men." The language is "bonnets, hats
and hoods for men, women and children." That expression
is fully answered by the words "hats for men."
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, said corre~tly: "Words
used in these tariff statutes, when not technical, either as
having a special sense by commercial usage or as having a
scientific meaning different from the popular meaning-in
other words, whbn they are words of common speech -are
within the judicial knowledge, and their interpretation is a
matter of law." The court held, on the evidence set forth in
the bill of exceptions, that the word "bonnet" in the act of
March 3, 1883, was not sufficiently broad to cover the goods
in question, unless it was made so by having affixed to it at
the time Congress passed the act some peculiar, technical,
trade meaning, which coupled it, in the minds of. the legislators, with those particular goods or goods similar to them;
and that there was no proof of that.
Moreover, at the close of the trial, both parties asked for
the direction of a verdict. The court denied the plaintiffs'
motion, and they duly excepted. They then asked the court
to submit the case to the jury, but the court refused to do sr,,
but it offered, however, to submit to the jury the sole question
whether, at the time of the passage of the tariff act of March
3, 1883, the 'word "bonnet" had in this country a well-known
technical, commercial designation such as would cover goods
of this kind. The plaintiffs disclaimed any desire to go to
the jury on that question alone, but asked leave of the court to
go to the jury generally. The court refused such leave, and
the plaintiffs excepted. Thereupon a verdict for the defendant
was directed, and the plaintiffs duly excepted. It seems to us
VOL. cx.Lvi-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

that this action of the court was correct, and that it offered
to submit to the jury the only question which the plaintiffs
could properly ask to have submitted.
(1) The other assignments of error are either immaterial or
are covered by what has been already said.

Judgment affi'iiwd.

HAMILTON GAS LIGHT AND COKE COMPANY v.
HAMILTON CITY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 32. Argued November 2, 3,1892. -Decided

November 21, 1892.

The provision in sec. 2486 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, authorizing
cities and villages in that State to erect gas-works at the expense of the
municipality, or to purchase any gas-works therein, do not infringe the
contract clause of the Constitution of the United States when exercised
by a municipality, within which a gas company has been authorized,
under the provisions of the acts of 'May 1, 1852, and March 11, 1853, to
lay down pipes and mains in the public streets and alleys and to supply
the inhabitants with gas, and has exercised that power; and with which
I the municipal authorities have contracted, by contracts which have expired by their own limitation, to supply the public streets, lanes and
alleys of the municipality with gas.
A municipal ordinance not passed under legislative authority, is not a law
of the State within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition against
state laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
Public grants susceptible of two constructions must receive the one most
favorable to the public.
Although a legislative grant to a corporation of special privileges may be a
contract, when the language of the statute is so explicit as to require
such ,Lconstruction, yet if one of the conditions of the grant be that the
legislhaure may alter or revoke it, a law altering or revoking the exclusive character of the -ranted privileges cannot be regarded as one impairing the obligation of the contract.

THE court stated the case as follows:

The 1-amil ton Gas Light and Coke Company invokes against
a certain ordinance of the city of Hamilton, a municipal cor-

