UNITED STATES v. COLTON MARBLE & LIE CO. 615
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. COLTON MARBLE AND LIME
COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
goo. 862, 863, Argued November 9, 10, 1892. Decided December 12, 1892.

The proviso In the act of March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 573, c. 122, granting
lands in aid of the construction of the Southern Pacific Railroad, that
the grant should "in no way affiect or impair the rights, present or prospective, of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company," operated to
exempt the indemnity lands of the Atlantic and Pacific Company from
the grant to the Southern Pacific Company.

THESE cases were similar in many respects to those of The
United States v. The Southern Pacific Railroad Company
et al., just decided. The lands involved were within the granted
limits of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, and the
indemnity limits of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, and the contention on the part of the government was,
that because they were within such indemnity limits they were
not of the lands granted or intended to be granted to the Southern Pacific Company. In the first, the defendants claimed
under the Southetn Pacific Railroad Company, and were
charged to be committing trespasses upon the lands, and the
relief sought was, as in the two prior cases, to quiet the title of
the plaintiff and to restrain the trespasses. In the second,
a patent had been issued, and the legal title conveyed to the
railroad company, and the relief sought was the cancellation
of that patent, and a decree establishing the title of the government. In this case there was a further contention on the
part of the government, and that was that the lands were sub
judice at the time of the definite location of the Southern
Pacific Company's road, inasmuch as they were within the
exterior boundaries of a Mexican land grant known as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Rancho San Jos6, as those boundaries were marked on the
surface of the ground by one of two official surveys, the accuracy of neither of which had then been determined. Decrees
were entered below in favor of the defendants, dismissing the
bills; from which decrees the government appealed to this
court. See 39 Fed. Rep. 132; 40 Fed. Rep. 611; 45 Fed. Rep.
596; 46 Fed. Rep. 683.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General -Mauryfor appellant.
.3fr. James C. Carter for appellees.
These cases were argued with the preceding case, (Nos. 921,
922.) The argument of counsel on both sides is reported in
full in that case, both the parts relating to the special question
considered by the court in this case, and the other questions,
involved in all the cases. Briefs, entitled in all the cases,
were filed by -Mr. George IK .Merrill, .Ar. G. Wiley lVell
and .1[r. Daniel 1. Russell, on behalf of Joseph Hinkell,
claiming adversely to the Southern Pacific Company; and
X'. J. A. Anderson, on behalf of several appellees in No. 863,
submitted on lMr. Carter'sbrief.
MR. JUSTICE BREWR, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The ordinary rule with respect to lands within indemnity
limits is, that no title passes until selection. Where, as here,
the deficiency within the granted limits is so great that all the
indemnity lands will not make good the loss, it has been held,
in a contest between two railroad companies, that no formal
selection was necessary to give them to the one having the
older grant, as against the other company. St. Paul f
Pacic Railroad v. .1orthern Paciic Railroad,139 U. S. 1.

And if the Atlantic and Pacific Company had constructed its
road, it would be difficult in the light of that decision to avoid
the conclusion that all the lands within the indemnity limits
passed to that company. But this case does not rest upon
that proposition. One thing which distinguishes the grant of
1871 to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company from most,

UNITED STATES v. COLTON MARBLE & LIME CO. 617
Opinion ol the Court.

if not all other, laud grants is the proviso somewhat considered in the opinion in the former cases, and which reads:
"Provided, however, That this section shall in no way
affect or impair the rights, present or prospective, of -the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, or any other railroad
company."
What is the significance of this proviso? Without it, cerLainly, the Southern Pacific, its grant being of later date,
would be postponed to the Atlantic and Pacific; and on the
filing by each company of a map of definite location, the title
to the lands within the granted limits would vest in the
Atlantic and Pacific Company, to the total and absolute
exclusion of all claims on the part of the Southern Pacific.
The proviso, therefore, was without significance, in respect
to such lands. It in no manner strengthened the title of
the Atlantic and Pacific, and took nothing away from the
Southern Pacific. Yet it cannot be supposed that this proviso was meaningless, and that Congress intended nothing by
it. Carefully inserted, in a way to distinguish this grant
from ordinary later and conflicting grants, it must be held
that Congress meant by it to impose limitations and restrictions different from those generally imposed in such cases,
and it in substance declared that the Southern Pacific Company should not in any event take lands to which any other
company had at the time a present or prospective right. As
it could have no effect upon the lands within the granted
limits, it must have been intended to have some effect upon
those within the indemnity limits, they being the only lands
upon which it could operate.
What were the prospective rights of the Atlantic and
Pacific Company? Of course it could not be known at the
time of the passage of the later act exactly where the lines
of the two companies would be located, and where the point
of crossing would be. Neither could it then be known that
there would be any deficiency in the granted lands at the
point of crossing, or that, if such deficiency existed, it would
require all the indemnity lands to make good the loss. It
might well be assumed that very likely the Atlantic and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of, the Court.

Pacific Company would be called upon to select from the
indemnity lands a portion sufficient to make good the deficiency, in the granted limits. That right of selection ws
a prospective right, and if it was to be fully exercised, no
adverse title could be created to any lands within the indemnity limits. Suppose, for instance, it should turn out that
only half of the indemnity lands were necessary to make good
the deficiency, and that one-half of such lands were well
-watered and valuable, while the remainder were arid and
comparatively valueless, obviously the right of selection
would be seriously impaired if it were limited to only the
arid and valueless tracts. In fact, every withdrawal of lands
from the aggregate of those from which selection could be
made would more or less impair the value of the right of
selection. The only way in which force can be given to this
proviso is to hold that the indemnity lands of the Atlantic
and Pacific were exempted from the grant to the Southern
Pacific, for, if not exempted, the former company's prospective right of selection would be to that extent impaired. It
must be borne in mind that these lands were in the granted
linits of the Southern Pacific, and that they are not lands in
respect to which that company would have a right of selection,
and might defer the exercise of that right until such time as
suited it. Being within the granted limits of the Southern
Pacific, all' its rights thereto vested at once, at the time of
the filing of the map of definite location, and were not and
could not be added to after that time; everything it..could
have in those lands it had then, and at that time there was an
existing prospective right on the part of the Atlantic and
Pacific Company to make a selection. That prospective right
would be impaired by the transfer of the title of a single tract
to the Southern Pacific. Hence, it follows that the title to
none of these indemnity lands passed or could pass to the
Southern Pacific Company.
In this aspect of the case it becomes unnecessary to inquire
whether the lands described in the second case were sub
judice. or not. If they were sub judice, they could not pass
to either company; and if they were not, the Atlantic and

BROWN v. BAXTER.
Syllabus.

Pacific's prospective right of selection prevented the passing
of title to the Southern Pacific.
The decrees in both cases will be reversed, and the cases
remanded with instructions to enter decrees in favor of
the governmentfor the relief sought.

fRB.

JUSTICE

FIELD,

(with whom concurred AIR. JusTIcE

GuY,) dissenting.

In these cases I dissent from the-judgment of the court
equally as from that in the cases just decided. It is now
held that not only the lands within the granted limits of the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company passed to that company beyond the power of Congress to assign any portion of
them for the construction of the Southern Pacific Company,
although no work was done by the former corporation,
and the grant to it was forfeited, but the indemnity lands
also. The objections urged to the judgment in the other cases
just decided possess greater force in these cases, for indemnity
lands do not vest in any company until they are selected.
Even if the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company had built
the road, it would have had no indemnity lands until selection
was made; much less can it be held that title vested in that
company before any attempt was madeto exhaust the lands
within the granted limits.
I think the judgment in these cases should also be affirmed,
and I am authorizea to state that MR. JUSTICE GRAY concurs
with me in this dissent.

BROWN v. BAXTER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS' OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 1123. Submitted December 12, 1892. -Decided

"'.

December 19, 1892.

A writ of ekror to the Court of Appeals of a State, to review a judgment of
-that court dismissing an appeal and remanding the case for further proceedings in the state court below, is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

