OCTOBER TER,, 1892.
Syllabus.

JBallocb. Even if it 'were assumed that the company was
bound to see that the moneys advanced under its agreement
with Hooper were properly and reasonably expended, the evidence does not show that an excessive amount has been charged
in its favor or in favor of Hooper against the property in question..
We perceive no error'in the decree, and it is
Aff?'med.

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1018. Argued October 28, 1892. -Decided

December 5, 1892.

In trials for felonies, it is not in the power of the prisoner, either by himself
or his counsel, to waive the right to be personally present during the trial.
The making of challenges is an essential part of the trial of a person accused of crime, and it is one of his substantial tights to be brought face
to face with the jurors when the challenges are made.
Though no specific exception was taken in this case by the prisoner, based
upon the fact that he was called upon to challenge jurors not before him,
a general exception, taken to the action of the court in prescribing the
method of procedure, was sufficient.
Where no due exception to the language of the court in instructing the jury
is taken at the trial, this court cannot consider whether the trial court
went beyond the verge of propriety in its instructions.
On the trial of the case, after the accused had pleaded not guilty to the indictment, the court directed two lists of thirty-seven qualified jurymen
to be made out by the clerk, one to be given to the district attorney and
one to the counsel for the defendant, and further directed each side to
proceed with its challenges, independently of the other, and without
knowledge on the part of -either as to what challenges had been made
by the other. To this method of proceeding, the defendant at the time
excepted, but was reiuifed to proceed to make his challenges.
lo
challenged twenty persons from the list of thirty-seven persons from
which he made his challenges, but in doing so he challenged three jurors
who were also challengei d'by the government. The .government challenged from the list of thirty-seven persons five persons, three of whom
w ere the same persons challenged by the defendant. This fact was made
to appear fr.hln the lists of jurors used by the government in making its

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
challenges and the defendant in making his challenges. To the happening of the fact that both parties challenged the same three jurors, the
defendant at the time objected, but the court overruled the objection,
and directed the jury to be called from the said two lists, impanelled and
sworn, to which the defendant at the time excepted. Held, that there
was substantial error in this proceeding and the judgment of guilty must
be reversed.

TuE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. 11. Garland and 2l'. EI. J.
error.

[ay for plaintiff in

Xr. Assistant Attorney General Parker for defendant in
error.
MR.JUSTICE SHInAS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a writ of error sued out to review a judgment of
the Circuit ,Courtof the United States for the Western District of Arkansas, imposing a sentence of death upon Alexander Lewis, plaintiff in error, for the murder of one Benjamin
C. Tarver, at the Cherokee Nation, in the Indian country.
It appears by the record that on the trial of the case, and
after the accused bad pleaded not guilty to the indictment,
the court directed two lists of thirty-seven qualified jurymen
to be made out by the clerk, one to be given to the district
attorney and one to the counsel for the defendant, and that
the court further directed each side to proceed with its challenges, independent of the other, and without knowledge 'on'
the part of either as to what challenges had been made by the
other.
It further appears by the record that to this method of proceeding in that regard, the defendant at the time excepted; but
was required to proceed to make his challenges; that he challenged twenty persons from the list of thirty-seven persons
frdm which he made his challenges, but in doing so he challenged three jurors who were also challenged by the attorney
for the government.

OCTOBER TERM[, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

It further appears that the government, by its district attorney, challenged from the list of thirty-seven persons five persons, three of whom were the same persons challenged by the
defendant, and that this fact was made to appear from the
lists of jurors used by the government in making its challenges
and the defendant in making his challenges.
To the happening of the fact that both parties challenged
the same three jurors, the defendant at the time objected, but
the court overruled the objection, and directed the jury to be
called fron the said two lists, impanelled and sworn, to which
the defendant at the time excepted.
The assignuents of error ask us to consider the validity of
the method o exercising his rights of challenge, imposed
upon the deferdant by the order of the court, and also the
propriety of the instruction given by the court to the jury, on
the subject of the defence of an alibi, by giving prominence to
the cautionary :rules by which they should weigh this, class of
testimony, and particularly in saying to the jury that it was a
defence often resorted to, and often attempted to be sustained
and made effective by fraud, subornation and perjury.
A leading principle that pervades the entire law of criminal
procedure is that, after indictment found, nothing shall be
done in the absence of the prisoner. While this rule has, at
times and in the cases of misdemeanors, been somewhat
relaxed, yet in felonies, it is not in the power of the prisoner,
either by himself or his counsel, to waive the right to be personally present during the trial.

"It would be contrary to

the dictates of humanity to let him waive the advantage
which a view of his sad plight might give him by inclining
the hearts of the jurors to listen to his defence with indulgence." Prine v. The Commonwealth, 18 Penn. St. 103, 104,
per Gibson, 0. J. And it appears to be well settled that, where
the personal presence is necessary in point of law, the record
must show the fact. Thus, in a Virginia case, Hooker v. TheCommonwealth, 13 Grat. 63, 766, the court observed that the
record showed that, on two occasions during the trial, the
prisoner appeared by attorney, and that there was nothing to
Ehow that he was personally present in court on either day,

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and added, "This is probably the result of mere inadvertence
in making up the record, yet this court must look only to the
record as it is.

.

.

.

It is the right of any one, when prose-

cuted on a capital or criminal charge, 'to be confronted with
the accusers and witnesses,' and it is within the scope of this
right that he be present, not only when the jury are hearing
his case, but at any subsequent stage when anything may be
done in the prosecution by which he is to be affected." Thereupon the judgment was reversed. And in the case of Dunn
v. Commonwealth, 6 Penn. St. 384, it was held that the record
in a capital case must show affirmatively the prisoner's presence
in court, and that it was not allowable to indulge the presumption that everything was rightly done until the contrary
appears. Ball v. United States, 140 U. S. 118 is to the same
effect.
In iopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 578, 579, it is said: "The
argument in behalf of the government is that the trial of the
indictment began after and not befofe the jury was sworn;
consequently, that the defendant's personal presence was not
required at an earlier stage of the proceedings. Some warrant,
it is supposed by counsel, is found for this position, in decisions
construing particular statutes in which the word 'trial' is
used. Without stopping to distinguish those cases from the
one before us, or to examine the grounds upon which they are
placed, it is sufficient to say-that the purpose of the foregoing
provisions of the Utah Criminal Code is, in prosecutions for
felonies, to prevent any steps being taken, in the absence of
the accused and after the case is called for trial, which involve
his substantial rights. The requirement is, not that he must
be personally present at the trial by the jury, but ' at the trial.'
The code, we have seen, prescribes grounds for challenge by
either party of jurors proposed. And provision is expressly
made for the ' trial' of such challenges, some by the court,
others by triers: The prisoner is entitled to an impartial jury
composed of persons not disqualified by statute, and his life
or liberty may depend upon the anx which, by his personal
presence, he may give to counsel aud to the court and triers,
in the selection of juror§. The nhcessities of the defence may

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

not be met by the presence of his counsel only.

For every

purpose, therefore, involved in the requirement that the defend-

ant shall be personally present at the trial, where the indictment
is for a felony, the trial commences at least from the time
when the work of empanelling the jury begins." And
further: "We are of opinion that it was not within the power
of the accused or his counsel to dispense with the statutory
requirement as to his personal presence at the trial. The
argument to the contrary necessarily proceeds upon the ground
that he alone is concerned as to the mode by which he may
be deprived of his life or liberty, and that the chief object of
the prosecution is to punish him for the crime charged. But
this is a mistaken view as well of the relations which the
accused holds to the public as of the end of human punishment. The natural life, says Blackstone, 'cannot legally be
disposed of or destroyed by any individual, neither by the
person himself, nor by any other of his fellow creatures,
merely upon their own authority.' 1 BI. Com. 133. The
public has an interest in his life and liberty. Neither can be
lawfully taken except in the mode prescribed by law. That
which the law makes essential in proceedings involving the
deprivation of life or liberty cannot be dispensed with or
affected by the consent of the accused, much less by his mere
failure, when on trial and in custody, to object to unauthorized
methods." So, too, in the case of Sclwal v. Bergyren, 143
U. S. 4,2, 448, this language of the court in Ikpt v. Utah is
cited and approved.
In the case of -Dyson v. 3iV.sissippi, 20 Mississippi, 362,
3.93, it was said: "It is undoubtedly true that the record must
alirmatively show those indispensable facts without which the
judgment would be void - such as the organization of the
court; its jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the parties;
that a cause was made up for trial; that it was submitted to
a jury sworn to try it (if it be a case proper for a jury); that
a verdict was rendered, and judgment awarded. Out of
abundant tenderness for the right secured to the.accused by
our Constitution, to be confronted by the witnesses against
him, and to be heard by himself or counsel, our court has

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

gone a step further, and held that it must be shown by the
record that the accused was present in court pending the trial.
This is upon the ground of the peculiar sacredness of this
high constit.utional right. It is also true, as has been held
by this court, ' that nothing can be presumed for or against
a record, except what appears substantially upon its face.'"
Continuing, the court said: "This rule has reference to those
indispensable requisites necessary to the validity of the record
as a judicial proceeding."
As already said, the record shows that at the trial of the
case the court directed two lists of thirty-seven qualified jurymen to be made out by the clerk, and one to be given to the
district attorney and one to the counsel for the defendant;
and the court further directed each side to proceed with its
challenges, and without knowledge on the part of either as to
what challenges had been made by the other. Although the
record states that after the challenges the twelve jurors who
remained were sworn, yet it clearly appears from the whole
record, and the lists therein referred to, that after the challenges there remained, not only twelve, but fifteen jurors, and
that by the mode adopted, which required the prisoner to
challenge by list, he exhausted some of his challenges by
challenging jurors at the foot of the list, and who were
never reached to be sworn as jurors in the case. And the
record does not disclose that, at the time the challenges were
made, the jury had been called into the box, nor that they
or the prisoner were present at the time the challenges were
made. It does, indeed, appear that the clerk called the entire
panel of the petit jury, but it does not appear that, when
the jury answered to said call, they were present so that they
could be inspected by the prisoner; and it is evident that the
process of challenging did not begin until after said call had
been made. We do not think that the record affirmatively
discloses that the prisoner and the jury were brought face to
face at the time the challenges were made, but we think that
a fair reading of the record leads to the opposite conclusion,
and that the prisoner was not brought face to face with the
jury until after the challenges had been made and the selected

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

jurors were brought into the box to be sworn. Thus reading
the record, andholding as we do that making of challenges
was an essential part of the trial, and that it was one of the
substantial rights of the prisoner to be brought face to face
with the jurors at the time when the challenges were made,
we are brought to the conclusion that the record discloses an
error for which the judgment of the court must be reversed.
The right of challenge comes from the common law with
the trial by jury itself, and has always been held essential to
the fairness of trial by jury. As was said by Blackstone, and
repeated by Mr. Justice Story: "In criminal cases, or at least
in capital ones, there is, infaorem vitce, allowed to the prisoner an arbitrary and capricious species of challenge to a
certain number of jurors, without showing any cause at all;
neremtory challenge ; a provision full of
which is called a
that tenderness and humanity to prisoners, for which our
English laws are justly famous. This is grounded on two
reasons: 1. As every one must be sensible, what sudden impressions and unaccountable prejudices we are apt to conceive
.upon the bare looks and gestures of another; and how necessary it is that a prisoner (when put to defend his life) should
have a good opinion of his jury, the want of which might
totally disconcert him ; the law wills not that he should be
tried by any one man against whom he has conceived a prejudice even without being able to assign.a reason for. such his
dislike. 2. Because, upon challenges for cause shown, if the
reason assigned prove insufficient to set aside the juror, perhaps the bare questioning his indifference may sometimes
provoke a resentment; to prevent all ill consequences from
which, the prisoner is still at liberty, if he pleases, peremptorily to set him aside." 4 Bl. Com. 353; United States v.
.Marchant, 4 Mason, 158, 160, 162; and 12 Wheat. 480, 482.
See, also, Co. Lit. 156b; Termes de la Ley, 'voc. Challenge, 2
,Hawk. c. 43, § 4; Riegina&
v. Frost, 9 Car. & P. 129, 137;
Rartzell v. Commonwealth, 40 Penn. St. 462, 466; State v.
Price,10 Rich. (Law,) 351, 375.
There is no statute of the United States which prescribes
the, meth6d of procedure in empanelling jurors in criminal

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cases, and it is customary for the United States courts in such
cases to conform to the methods prescribed by the statutes of
the States. In the present instance, the method prescribed by
the statutes of Arkansas was not followed, nor does it appear
that there exists any general rule on the subject in the Circuit
Court of the Western District of Arkansas. While the court
in the present instance did not exceed its jurisdiction in directing the empanelling of tlfe jury by a method different from
that prescribed by the state statute, and while we do not feel
called upon to make suggestions as to the proper practice to
be adopted by the Circuit Courts in empanelling juries in criminal cases, yet obviously all rules of practice must necessarily
be adapted to secure the rights of the accused; that is, where
there is no statute, the practice must not conflict with or
abridge the right as it exists at common law. In the trial of
Jeremiah.Brandreth, 32 How. St. Tr. 1755, 771, where a question arose as to the order of challenge of jurors in a capital
case, it was said by Mr. Justice Abbott: "Having attended, I
believe, more trials of this kind than any other of the judges,
I would state that the uniform practice has been, that the
juryman was presented to the prisoner or his counsel that
they might have a view of his person; then the officer of the
court looked first to the counsel for the prisoner to know
whether they wished to challenge him; he then turned to the
counsel for the crown, to know whether they challenged him,
and if neither of them made any objection, the oath wi
administered." In Townley's Case, 18 How. St. Tr. 347, 348,
the prisoner's counsel moved that before any juryman should
be brought to the book, the whole panel might be called over
once in the prisoner's hearing, that he might take notice who
did or who did not appear, which they said would be a coisiderable help to him in taking his challenges. This was done
by order of the court.
In the case of Lamb v. The State, 36 Wiseonsin, 424, where
it did not appear affirmatively by the record that the panel of
jurors in respect to which the prisoner had the right of peremptory challenge, was present in the view of the prisoner;
but where the members of the jury were called into the box

OCTOBER. TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

one at a time, and either challenged or sworn, and to which
method the prisoner excepted, this was held reversible error,
and the court said: "We cannot but agree with the learned
counsel for the plaintiff in error, that this mode of empanelling the jury largely impaired the right of peremptory challenge, essential in contemplation of law to the impartiality of
the trial.' For it is, as Blackstone says, an arbitrary and
capricious right; and it must be exercised with full freedom,
or it fails of 'its full purpose. The mode adopted gave no
opportunity for comparison and choice between jurors, and
little opportunity for observance of each juror, apparently
essential to the exercise of a right so visionary and fanciful."
In the case of Hopt v. Utah, already cited, it was held that
the trial by triers, appointed by the court, of challenges of
proposed jurors in felony cases, must be had in the presence
as well of the court as of the accused, and that such presence
of the accused cannot be dispensed with. In that case the
triers took the juror from the court-room into a different
room, and tried the grounds of challenge out of the presence
as well of the court as of the defenilant and his counsel, and
it was held by this court that it was error which vitiated the
verdict and judgment to permit the trial of challenges to take
place without the presence of the accused; and this, although
the accused failed to object to the retirement of the triers
from the court-room, or to the trial of the several challenges
in his absence. The record in this case discloses that the prisoner objected and took due exception to the orders of the court
directing the method of taking challenges. It is true that no
specific exception was taken by the prisoner, based on the
stated fact that he was called upon to challenge jurors not
before him, but we think that the general exception taken to
the action of the court in prescribing the method of procedure
was sufficient.
Another assignment averred error in the court in its selection of the jary, in that the defendant was required to make
his challenges without first knowing what challenges the government's attorney had made, and thus challenged three jurors
who ,werealso challenged by the government, whereby he was

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

deprived of three of his challenges, contrary to law. This
assignment of error is based on a specific exception taken at
the time by the prisoner, and in this respect it differs from the
case of Alexander v. United States, 138 U. S. 353, where the
same error was assigned, and was not considered by this court
because it had not been properly excepted to at the trial. As
we have already said, we do not deem it our duty to prescribe
in this opinion rules to regulate the discretion of the Circuit
Courts in the empanelling of jurors in criminal cases. Perhaps
the preferable pourse would be for the Circuit Courts to adopt
the methods prescribed by the statutes of the States, because
such methods are familiar to the bar and the people of the
States. If, however, the Circuit Courts choose to deal with
such matters by rules of their own, we think it essential that
such rules should be adapted to secure all the rights of the
accused. It does not appear in the present case that the prisoner made any demand to challenge any of the jury beyond
the twenty allowed by the Revised Statutes.. In fact, it does
not clearly appear which side made the first challenges, or that
the defendant had not exhausted his challenges before the
government challenged the three jurors in question. If it were
a fact that the defendant had made his twenty challenges
before the government had challenged these three men, it is
difficult to see how his rights were prejudiced by the action of
the district attorney, but we should hesitate to affirm this
judgment upon a record giving us so little information as to
the history of the trial in these respects.
The only other error assigned which calls for notice is the
one objecting to the language used by tl~e court when cautioning the jury in respect to the testimony bearing on the defence
of an alibi. Whether the language of the learned judge went
beyond the verge of propriety, we are not called upon to
consider, as no due exception was taken at the trial, and
no opportunity was, therefore, given the court to modify the
charge.
The objection to the language used, urged on the motion for
a new trial, cannot be regarded as equivalent to an exception
at the trial. Because, however, of the error into which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

court fell, in directing secret challenges to be made, and not in
the presence of the prisoner and the jurors, the judgment of
the court below must be reversed and the case remanded for
a new-trial.
Judg-men reversed.
MR. JusTicE BREWER,

with whom concurred Mr.. TUSTIcE

BRowN, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case. Where the question is as to the inferences to be drawn
from a record, it is well to have its very language before us.
The entire record bearing upon the matters in controversy
consists of a single journal entry and a portion of the bill of
-exceptions. The journal entry is as follows:
" TUESDAY MORNING,

October 20th, 1891.

"(Caption omitted.)
"On this day come the United States of America, by Win.
H. H. Clayton, Esq., attorney for the Western District of
Arkansas, and come the said defendant in custody of the
marshal and by his attorneys, Mess. Barnes & Reed, and it
appearing from the returns of the marshal that the said defendant has been served with a duly certified copy of the indictment in this cause and a full and complete list of the witnesses
in this cause, and that he has also been served with a full and
complete list of the petit jury, as selected and drawn by the
jury commissioners for the present term of this court, more
than two entire days heretofore, and having heretofore had
hearing of said indictment, and pleaded not guilty thereto, it
is, on. motion of the plaintiff by its attorney, ordered that a
jury come to try the issue joined, whereupon the clerk called
the entire panel of the petit jury, and, after challenge by both
plaintiff, and defendant, the following were selected for the
trial of this cause:
"Gee. A. Bryant, John W. Clayborn, Henry P. Dooly,
James 0. Eubanks, John A. Fisher, Henry P. Floyd, Geo. W.
Hobbs, Hugh F. Mullen, Jno. D. McCleary, Obadiah C. Rich-

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.-

mond, Joseph Stafford, Henry B. Wheeler, twelve good and
lawful men of the district aforesaid, duly selected, empanelled,
and sworn to try the issue joined and a true verdict render
according to the law and the evidence; and after hearing a
portion of the evidence, and there not being time, to further
progress in the trial of this cause, they were put in charge of
a sworn bailiff of this court."
The recital in the bill of exceptions is in these words
"Be it remembered that on the trial of the above-entitled
cause the court directed two lists of 37 qualified jurymen to
be made out by the clerk, and one given to the district attorney dnd one to the counsel for the defendant; and the court
further directed each side to proceed with its challenges
independent of the other and without knowledge on the part
of either as to what challenges had been made by the other.
"To which method of proceeding in that regard defendant
at the time excepted, but was required to proceed to make his
challenges, and he challenged 20 persons from the list of 37
persons, from which he made his challenges, but in doing so
he challenged 3 jurors who were also challenged by the attorney for the government, to wit, James H. Hamilton, Britton
Upchurch, and James P. Mack. The government, by its
district attorney, challenged from the list of 37 jurors 5 persons. In making its challenges the same three persons as
those challenged by the defendant, to wit, James H. Hamilton, Britton Upchurch, and James P. Mack, were challenged
by the government, as appears from the lists of jurors used by
the government in making its challenges and the defendant
in making his challenges.
"The 12 persons who were left of the panel of 37, after
both sides had made their respective challenges, were the ones
selected to try and who did try the case.
"To the happening of the fact that both parties challenged
the same three jurors, the defendant -at the time objected, but
the- couFt overruled the objection and directed the jury to be
called from the said two lists, empanelled and sworn, to which
the defendant at the time excepted."

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

In addition, in the bill of exceptions are found the two lists
of jurors, given the one to the government and the other to
the defendant. Upon this record the case turns. We look to
the journal entry for a recital of the facts necessary to constitute a legal trial. That recital may be in general terms, but
still should affirmatively show everything essential to a valid
criminal trial. This journal entry clearly affirms the presence
of the defendant. The language is: "Come the said defendant in custody of the marshal," etc. Such presence, having
been once stated will be presumed to have continued through
the entire day, unless the contrary is shown. It never has
been even suggested that the journal should contain at the
statement of each separate proceeding of the day a fresh recital of the personal presence of the defendant. In ffries v.
The Commonwealth, 12 Allen, 145, 154, it was said: "Nor is
it necessary that the record should in direct terms state that
the party was personally present at the time of the rendition
of the verdict and during all the previous proceedings of the
trial. Hlowever necessary it may be that such should have
been the fact, it is not necessary to recite it in the record.
The record shows that he was present at the arraignment and
present to receive his sentence." "When the record shows
that the defendant was in court at the openthg of the session
the presumption is that he continued in court during the entire
day, and this presumption has been extended to the wholo
trial." Wharton's Cr. Pl. and Pr. § 551; State v. Leirhs, 69
.Missouri, 92; ifie v. United States, 27 Fed. Rep. 351; Clu reTrius v. ommonwealth, 81 Virginia, 787; Plolden v. Stte, 13
Nebraska, 32S; b'voin v. State, 19 Florida, 872; People v. Sing
Luam, 61 California, 538; People v. Jung Qung Sing, 70 California, 469; 11rew J1rexico v. Iarberry, 2 New Alexico, 391.
No claim, therefore, can be successfully presented that anything transpiring on that day took place in the absence of
the defendant.
The same journal entry further recites, that "the clerk
called the entire panel of the petit jury, and, after challenge
by both plaintiff and defendant," the jury was selected.
Where the general term is used, as here, "challenge," it means

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

all challenges. It is used in its comprehensive sense. It,
unnecessary to subdivide, and say after challenge to the array,
challenges for cause, and peremptory challenges; the single
general word is sufficient. But this journal entry does not
stop with this. After naming the jurors, and describing them
as good and lawful men, it adds, "duly selected, empanelled
and sworn." Such will be found the uniform formula of
journal entries. In -ie v. United States, 27 Fed. IRep. 351,
357, a case taken on error to the Circuit Court, Judge Deady
observes: "The record simply states in the usual way, when
the case was called for trial, a jury came, and was duly empanelled and sworn." Potsdamerv. The State, 17 Florida, 895 ;
Rash v. Te State, 61 Alabama, 89. In Wharton's Criminal
Pleading and Practice, sec. 779 a (9th ed.) the author says.:
"Thus when the record shows empanelling and swearing it
will be presumed, in error, that the swearing was in conformity
with the law, and the empanelling was regular." It is hardly
necessary to refer to the familiar fact that in criminal, as in
civil cases, the presumption is in favor of the regularity of the
proceedings in the trial court, and that error must affirmatively appear. Powell on Appellate Proceedings, p. 326, sec.
50; Wharton's Cr. Pleading and Practice, see. 779 a, (9th ed.)
and cases cited in note. I take it, therefore, that it is not
open to doubt that if nothing was before us except the journal
entry there would be no error apparent in the proceedings in
regard to the jury.
How does the matter stand from the bill of exceptions? A
bill of exceptions is prepared by the party, and being prepared
by him, he may state, and ought to state, only those facts
which present the very question he desires to raise. If the
objection is to a ruling on the admission of testimony, he
should state only that testimony and enough of the case to
show its ielevancy. It would be absurd to require him to set
out all the testimony, or to state in terms that there was no
objection to the balance. As was said in Lincoln v. Claftin, 7
Wall. 132, 136: "A bill of exceptions should only present the
rulings of the court upon some matter of law,- as upon the
admission or exclusion of evidence, - and should contain only

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

so much of the testimony, or such a statement of the proofs
made or bffered, as may be necessary to explain Jhe bearing
of the rulings upoti the issues involved." If he objects to a
specific portion of a charge, he should state only that portion.
P tting in the whole charge is clearly against rule 4 of this
court, and has been explicitly condemned. United States v.
Rindskopf, 105 IT. S. 418. Indeed, the single function of a
bill of exceptions is to bring upon the record so much of the
proceedings as will disclose the precise question which the
party desires to have ruled upon, and, when prepared by counsel and presented to the court, if it states the facts truly, the
judge ought to sign it; and it is unnecessary for it to set forth
affirmatively that there was no other error in the proceedings,
or to state all the facts of the 'case in order to disclose that
there was no other error. Bearing in mind this, which is
confessedly the scope and purpose of a bill of exceptions, I
notice that in this bill not a word is said about the absence of
the jurors from the box, the personal presence or absence
of the defendant, or whether the defendant was brought face to
face with the jurors. If he had any fault to find in respect to
these matters, the facts in respect thereto should have been
explicitly stated. That he made no claim of wrong therein,
is evident from the fact that he does not mention them.
Examining the language of the bill of exceptions carefully, it
states that two lists were given, one to plaintiff and one to
defendant; and the court directed them to proceed with their
challenges, each separately of the other, and without knowledge of what challenges were being made by the other. Then
follow the exceptions, "to which method of proceeding in
that regard defendant at the time excepted." I respectfully
submit that language could not be used which makes clearer
the fact that the objection ran alone to the fact that each
party was required to make its challenges independently of
the other, and without knowledge of what the other was
doing. It is not simply said "to which method of proceeding," but as if to linit carefully to the particular matter, it
says "to which metb d of proceeding in that regard." And
at the close of the r. tals it is further stated, "to the happen-

'LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

ing of the fact that both parties challenged the same three
jurors, the defendant at the time objected." This is all which
in any way tends to show that there was anything wrong in
the matter of challenges, or that anything took place in the
absence of the defendant.
Again, if the defendant had taken no exceptions to these
proceedings, it is settled that this court would not inquire as
to whether there was error in them. In Alexander v. United
States, 138 U. S. 353, 355, a case coming from the same district, the precise state of facts in respect to the empanelling of
the jury appeared, but without any exceptions. The response
made by the cpurt to the assignment of error was in these
words: "The decisive answer to this assignment is, that the
attention of .the court does not seem to have been called to it
until after the conviction, when the 'defendant made it a
ground of his motion for a new trial. It is the duty of
counsel seasonably to call the attention of the court to any
error in empanelling the jury, in admitting testimony, or in
any other proceeding during the trial, by which his rights are
prejudiced, and in ease of an adverse ruling to note an exception." Of course, then, if the matters are not vital to the
trial, and may be waived by failure to object, as thus decided,
clearly the defendant can take advantage of nothing to which
he does not except. H~nce, supposing that after the foregoing
recital in the bill of exceptions there had appeared further
recitals showing various irregularities in respect to the challenges, sufficient of themselves, if excepted to, to compel reversal, but with no following exception, clearly, under the rule
laid down in Alexander v. Die United States, we should, have
been compelled to ignore them. Surely then, when the exception runs to a specific matter, it cannot be broadened so as
to extend to a matter, which is confessedly not stated, but is
only inferred as probable from what is stated. In short, when
the journal entry, which is of itself a part of the record, and
which is the' court's statement of what took place, recites the
personal presence of the defendant and the full exercise of the
right of challenge in language which is the ordinary formula
of journal entries, and which haCs been uniformly regarded as
VOL. cxLvI-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

sufficient, -to infer from the bill of exceptions prepared by the
deferfdaut, whose purpose is only to present the facts bearing
upon the particular error alleged by him, and which only
specifies in terms a single act to which exception is taken, to
wit, the fact that plaintiff and defendant were compelled to
challenge peremptorily, without knowledge of the other's
challenges, that any challenges took place in the absence of
the defendant, and to hold that an exception which is precise
to a particular matter can be broadened so as to include other
matters not specified, and thereupon to set aside a judgment
of guilty solemnly rendered, seems to me to overturn established rules governing appellate proceedings, to destroy confidence in courts, and to work great wrong to the public.
Further than this, in the brief of counsel for the defendant
there is no claim that the jury were not present in the box,
face to face with the defendant, when he was called upon to
make his challenges. The only points they make in reslpect
to the matter are that the mode of designating the jury was
not recognized by the statutes of the State of Arkansas, nor
in conformity with any rule prescribed by Oongress; and that
by reason of the fact that three jurors were challenged by
both the government and defendant, 'the latter was really
deprived of three peremptory challenges.
Now, if it should prove to be the case-as it seems to me
is not only possible but probable -that the defendant was in
fact present in the court-room during all the challenges; that
the entire panel of jurors was called into the box before him;,
that in their presence he was allowed and received all the
challenges for cause he desired to make; and that only after
a full inspection of the jury, and a questioning of each one so
far as was desired, were the lists placed in the hands of the
respective counsel for peremptory challenges, will not the
ordinary citizen believe that substantial justice would have
been done if this court had omitted to read into the record
something which is not expressly stated therein, which defendant's counsel did not claim to have happened, and which
did not in fact happen.
So far as respects the matter of contemporaneous challeng-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. ILLINOIS.

387

Syllabus..

ing, at common law, and generally where no order is prescribed by 'tatute, the defendant is required to make all his
challenges before the government is called upon for any. In
that aspect of the law, contemporaneous challenging works to
the injury of the government rather than to that of the defendant. Further, in the only case in which the precise question has been presented, State v. Hays, 23 Missouri, 287, cited
approvingly in Tu:pin v. The ,State, 55 Maryland, 462, the
decision was in favor of the validity of such manner of challenge. In view of the discretion which in the absence of
statute is confessedly vested in the trial court as to the manner
of challenges, there ws no error in this sufficient to justify a
new trial.
I am authorized to say that Mr. JcuSTIcE BRoWN also dissents.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
ILLINOIS.
CHICAGO v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Wos. 419, 608, 609. Argued October 12, 13, 14, 1892.-

Decided December 5, 1892.

The ownership of and dominion and sovereignty over lands covered by tide
waters, within the limits of the several States, belong to the respective
States within which they are found, with the consequent right to use
or dispose of any portion thereof, when that can be done without substantial impairment of the interest of the public in the waters, and
subjet always to the paramount right of Congress to control their
navigation so far as may be necessary for the regultion of commerce
with foreign nations and among the States.
The same doctrine as to the dominion and sovereignty over and ownership
of lands under the navigable waters of the Great Lakes applies, which

