CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

MoPHERSON v. BLACKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMAE COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 1170. Argued Oct. 11, 1892.-Decided Oct. 17, 1892.

The validity of a state law providing for the appointment of electors of
President and Vice President having been drawn in question before the
highest tribunal of a State, as repugnant to the laws and Constitution of
the United States, and that court having decided in favor of its validity,
this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment under Rev. Stat. § 709.
Under the second clause of Article II of the Constitution, the legislatures
of the several States have exclusive power to direct the manner in which
the electors of President and Vice President shall be appointed.
Such appointment may be made by the legislatures directly, or by popular
vote in districts, or by general ticket, as may be provided by the
legislature.
If the terms of the clause left the question of power in doubt, contemporaneous and continuous subsequent practical construction has determined
the question as above stated.
The second clause of Article II of the Constitution was not amended by the
Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, and they do not limit the power
of appointment to the particular manner pursued at the time of the
adoption of these amendments, or secure to every male inhabitant of a
State, being a citizen of the United States, the right from the time of
his majority to vote for presidential electors.
A state law fixing a date for the meeting of electors, differing from that
prescribed by the act of Congress, is not thereby wholly invalidated; but
the date may be rejected and the law stand.
VOL. CXLVI-I
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
WILLTAM McPherson, Jr., Jay A. Hubbell, J. Henry Carstens, Charles E. Hiscock, Otto Ihling, Philip T. Colgrove,
Conrad G. Swensburg, Henry A. Iaigh, James H. White,
Fred. Slocum, Justus S. Stearns, John Millen, Julius T. hannah, and J. IH. Comstock filed their petition and affidavits in
the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan, on May 2, 1892,
as nominees for presidential electors, against Robert R.
Blacker, Secretary of State of Michigan, praying that the
court declare the act of the legislature, approved May 1, 1891,
(Act No. 50 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1891), entitled
"An act to provide for the election of electors of President
and Vice President of the United States, and to repeal all
other acts and parts of acts in conflict herewith," void and of
no effect, and that a writ of mandamus be directed to be issued
to the said Secretary of State, commanding him to cause to be
delivered to the sheriff of each county in the State, between
the first of July and the first of September, 1892, "a notice in
writing that at the next general election in this State, to be
held on Tuesday, the 8th day of November, 1892, there will
be chosen (among other officers to be named in said notice) as
many'electors of President and Vice President of the United
States as this State may be entitled to elect Senators and Representatives in the Congress."
The statute of Michigan, (Howell's Ann. Stats. of Michigan,
133, c. 9,) provided: "The secretary of state shall, between
the first day of July and the first day of September preceding
a general election, direct and cause to be delivered to the
sheriff of each county in this State, a notice in writing, that at
the next general election there will be chosen as many of the
following officers as are to be elected at such general election,
viz. : A governor, lieutenant governor, secretary of state, state
treasurer, auditor general, attorney general, superintendent of
public instruction, commissioner of the state land office, members of the state board of education, electors of President and
Vice President of the United States, and a representative in
Congress for the district to which each of such counties shall
belong."
A rule to show cause having been issued, the respondent, as

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Statement of the Case.

secretary of state, answered the petition, and denied that be
had refused to give the notice thus required, but he said, "That
it has always been the custom in the office of the secretary of
state, in giving notices under said section 147, to state in the
notice the number of electors that should be printed on the
ticket in each voting-precinct in each county in this State, and
following such custom with reference to such notice, it is the
intention of this respondent in giving notice under section 147
to state in said notice that there will be elected one presidential elector at large, and one district presidential elector, and
two alternate presidential electors, one for the elector at large
and one for the district presidential elector, in each votingprecinct, so that the election may be held under and in accordance with the provisions of act No. 50 of the Public Acts of
the State of Michigan of 1891."
By an amended answer the respondent claimed the same
benefit as if he had demurred.
Relators relied in their petition upon various grounds as
invalidating act No. 50 of the Public Acts of Michigan of
1891, and among them, that the act was void because in
conflict with clause two of section one of Article II of the
Constitution of the United States, and with the Fourteenth
Amendment to that instrument, and also in some of its
provisions in conflict with the act of Congress of February 3,
1887, entitled "An act to fix the day for the meeting of the
electors of President and Vice President, and to pro ide for
and regulate the c6unting of the votes for President and Vice
President, and the decision of questions arising thereon." The
Supreme Court of Michigan unanimously held that none of
the objections urged against the validity of the act were
tenable; that it did not conflict with clause two of section
one of Article 11 of the Constitution or with the Fourteenth
Amendment thereof ; and that the law was only inoperative
so far as in conflict with the law of Congress in a matter in
reference to which Congress had the right to legislate. The
opinion of the court will be found reported, in advance of the
official series, in 52 Northwestern Rep. 469.
Judgment was given, June 17, 1892, denying the writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

mandamus, whereupon a writ of error was allowed to this
court.
The October term, 1892, commenced on Monday, October
10, and on Tuesday, October 11, the first day upon which the
application could be made, a motion to advance the case was
submitted by counsel, granted at once in view of the exigency
disclosed upon the face of the papers, and the cause heard
that day. The attention of the court having been called to
other provisions of the election laws of Michigan than those
supposed to be immediately involved, (Act No. 190, Public
Acts, Michigan, 1891, pp. 258, 263), the Chief Justice, on
Monday, October 17, announced the conclusions of the court,
and directed the entry of judgment affirming the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Michigan, and ordering the mandate
to issue at once, it being stated that this was done because
immediate action under the state statutes was apparently
required and might be affected by delay, but it was added
that the court would thereafter file an opinion stating fully
the grounds of the decision.
Act No. 50 of the Public Acts of 1891 of Michigan is as
follows:

"An act to provide for the election of electors of President
and Vice President of the United States, and to repeal all
other acts and parts of acts in conflict herewith.
" SEOTioN 1. Die People of the State of Michigan enact,
That at the general election next preceding the choice of
President and Vice President of the United States, there shall
be elected as many electors of President and Vice President
as this State may be entitled to elect of Senators and Representatives in Congress in the following manner, that is to
say: There shall be elected by the electors of the districts
hereinafter defined one elector of President and Vice President
of the United States in each district who shall be known and
designated on the ballot, respectively, as eastern district
elector of President and Vice President of the United States
at large, and western district elector of President and Vice
President of .the United States at large; there shall also be
elected in like manner two alternate electors of President and

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Statement of the Case.

Vice President, who shall be, known and designated on the
ballot, as eastern district alternate elector of President and
Vice President of the United States at large, and western
district alternate elector of President and Vice President of
the United States at large, for which purpose the first, second,
sixth, seventh, eighth and tenth congressional districts shall
compose one district to be known as the eastern electoral
district, and the third, fourth, fifth, ninth, eleventh and
twelfth congressional districts shall compose the other district,
to be known as the western electoral district; there shall also
be elected by the electors in each congressional district into
which the State is or shall be divided, one elector of President
and Vice President, and one alternate elector of President
and Vice President, the ballots for which shall designate the
number of the congressional district and the persons to be
voted for therein, as district elector and alternate district
elector of President and Vice President of the United States
respectively.
"SME. 2. The counting, canvassing and certifying of the votes
cast for said electors at large, and their alternates and said
district electors and their alternates, shall be done, as near as
may be, in the same manner as is now provided by law for the
election of electors of President and Vice President of the
United States.
"SEc. 3. The Secretary of State shall prepare three lists of
the names of the electors and the alternate electors, procure
thereto the signature of the governor, affix the seal of the
State to the same, and deliver such certificates thus signed and
sealed to one of the electors on or before the first Wednesday
of December next following said general election. In case of
death, disability, refusal to act or neglect to attend, by the
hour of twelve o'clock at noon of said day, of either of said
electors at large, the duties of the office shall be performed by
the alternate electors at large, that is to say: The eastern district alternate elector at large shall supply the place of the
eastern district elector at large, and the western district alternate elector at large shall supply the place of the western district elector at large. In like case, the alternate congressional

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

district elector shall supply the place of the congressional district elector. In case two or more persons have an equal and
the highest number of votes for any office created by this act
as canvassed by the board of state canvassers, the legislature
in joint convention shall choose one of said persons to fill such
office, and it shall be the duty of the governor to convene the
legislature in special session for subh purpose immediately
upon such determination by said board of state canvassers.
"SEc. 4. The said electors of President and Vice President
shall convene in the senate chamber at the capital of the State
at the hour of twelve o'clock at noon. on the first Wednesday
of December immediately following their election, and shall
proceed to perform the duties of such electors as required by
the Constitution and the laws of the United States. The
alternate electors shall also be in attendance, but shall take no
part in the proceedings except as herein provided.
"SEC. 5. Each of said electors and alternate electors shall
receive the sum of five dollars for each day's attendance at the
meetings of the electors as above provided, and five cents per
mile for the actual and necessary distance travelled each way
in going to and returning from said place of meeting, the same
to be paid by the state treasurer upon the allowance of the
board of state auditors.
"SEc. 6. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed." Approved May 1,
1891.
Section 211 of Howell's Annotated Statutes of Michigan
(vol. 1, c. 9. p. 145) reads:
"For the purpose of canvassing and ascertaining the votes
givea1 for electors of President and Vice President of the
Uinited States, the board of state canvassers shall meet on the
Wednesday next after the third Monday of November, or on
such other day before that time as the secretary of state shall
appoint; and the powers, duties, and proceedings of said
for, examinboard, and of the secretary of state, in sending
ing, ascertaining determining, certifying and recording the
votes and results of the election of such electors, shall be in
all respects, as near as may be, as hereinbefore provided in

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Argtuient for Plaintiffs in Error.

relation to sending for, examining, ascertaining, determining,
certifying and recording the votes and results of the election
of State officers."
Section 240 of Howell's Statutes, in force prior to May 1,
1891, provided: "At the general election next preceding the
choice of President and Vice President of the United States,
there shall be elected by general ticket as many electors of
President and Vice President, as this State may be entitled to
elect of Senators and Representatives in Congress."
The following are sectiois of Article VIII of the Constitution of Michigan:
"SEC. 4. The secretary of state, state treasurer, and commissioner of the state land office shall constitute a board of
State auditors, to examine and adjust all claims against the
State, not otherwise provided for by general law. They shall
constitute a board of state canvassers, to determine the result
of all elections for governor, lieutenant-governor, and state
officers, and of such other officers as shall by law be referred
to them.
"SEC. 5. In case two or more persons have an equal and
the highest number of votes for any office, as canvassed by the
board of state canvassers, the legislature in joint convention
shall choose one of said persons to fill such office. When the
determination of the board of state canvassers is contested,
the legislature in joint convention shall decide which person is
elected." (1 Howell's Ann. Stats. Mich. 57.)
Reference was als6 made in argument to the act of Congress
of February 3, 1887, to fix the day for the meeting of the
electors of President and Vice-President, and to provide for
and regulate the counting of the votes. 24 Stat. 373, c. 90.
-Mr.Henry i. Duffield, .ir. Fisher A. Baker, and Mir.
Attorney General for plaintiffs in error.
The English colonies in America were distinct and separate
communities, each of which had a government or political
organization of its own. There was no such thing as a general organization or union, and no power to form one, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for :Plaintiffs in Error.

some of the colonies acted together in the common defence, as
against the Indians, and in the wars between England and
France, which resulted, a few years before the Revolution, in
establishing the dominion of the English over Canada and the
Northwest. 1 Curtis' Const. Hist. U. S. 1-4; Lodge's Hist.
Eng. Col. in Am. 351-352, 367-370; Scott's Development of
Const. Liberty in English Colonies, 36.
Such being the nature of the colonial governments and the
character of their existence, it was inevitable that.they should
treat each other as equals when they came to act together in
resisting the encroachments of the English government, and
achieving their own independence. The rule of voting by
States, established at the outset, was continued by the Articles
of Confederation, and was carried into the rules of the convention which framed the Constitution. 1 Elliot's Deb. 161.
The Constitution itself made the separate and individual
approval of nine of the States necessary, in order to its adoption at all, and made it possible for the new government to go
into operation with four States left out, and each in the enjoyment of a separate independence.
Strenuous efforts were made in a number of the States to
defeat a ratification of the Constitution, but it does not appear
that the provisions for the election of the President and Vice
President excited any particular animosity or were the subject
of any serious controversy. Hamilton's statements in regard
to these provisions, in the sixty-eighth number of the Federalist, seem to have reflected the general judgment, as they did,
undoubtedly, his own opinion and that of Madison. From
them it is evident that legislative appointments were not at
that time contemplated; but the shortness of time allowed by
Congress explains why that mode was adopted in some States
at the first election.
%.
%
This brief statement of the condition of thin"s prior to and
at the time of the adoption of the Constitution brings us to
the consideration of the questions in discussion here; which
are: (1) Does the Michigan statute contravene and is it repugnant to Art. II, sec. 1, clause 2, of the Constitution of the
United States? (2) Does it contravene and was it repugnant

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States ? (3) Is it in contradiction of and opposition to
the act of Congress of February 3, 1887?
I. The Michigan statute is in conflict with Art. II, sec. 1,
clause 2, of the Constitution of the United States, which provides that, "each State shall appoint, in such manner as the
legislature thereof may direct, a number of electors equal to
the whole number of Senators and Representatives to which
the State may be entitled in the Congress."
In legal effect it commands the State to "appoint" the
electors, and delegates to the legislature the power to "direct"
the manner of their appointment ;b thus imposing one duty
on the State and another on the legislature. We contend
that the words "the State," as thus used, mean the artificial
being, the legal entity, the body politic, which is the sovereign
State.
Immediately preceding the present use of the word in the
Constitution it had been repeatedly employed to designate the
State in its sovereign capacity. Art. I, sec. 10, clause 1 : "No
State shall enter into any treaty, alliance or confederation," etc.
Clause 2: "No State shall, without the consent of the United
States, lay any imposts or duties," etc.; again: "And the net
produce of all duties and imposts laid by any State," etc.
Clause 3: "No State shalt, without the consent of Congress,
lay any duty of tonnage." Similar uses of the term in other
parts of the Constitution suggest themselves, as Art. III, sec.
2, that "the judicial power shall extend to controversies between two or more States,
citizens of another State,

.

.

.

.

.

.

between a State and the
between a State or' the

citizens thereof and foreign States, citizens or subjects."
Art. IV, sec. 3: "New States may be admitted into this
Union."
Whenever the Constitution confers any power on or reserves iny right to the people of the States or to any state
functionaries, it is careful to so declare explicitly, as in the
case of Art. I, sec. 2, for choosing representatives in Congress
by the "people of the several States;" Art. I, see. 3: choosing
United States Senators "by the legislature" of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Art. IV, sec. 2: ",The citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States." Art. V: " On the application of the legislatures of
two-thirds of the several States, Congress shall call a convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution." Finally,
the Tenth Amendment provides "that the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited
by it to the States are reserved respectively to the States or
the people."
Strong support of this contention that the State must appoint its presidential electors is found in the third and immediately succeeding clause of the same section, afterwards
superseded by the Twelfth Amendment, which provided that
when the election of President is ca t upon the House of Representatives '"the votes shall be taken by States, the representativo from each State having one vote," etc.
Nor are judicial interpretations lacking to sustain our contention. See .JLZnbu'ra v. Ellzey 2 Cranch, 445 ; Penhallow v.
Doane, 3 Dall. 5-1; Mare v. fylton, 3 Dall. 199, 225; Buckner
v. Fihnley, 2 Pet. 586 ; and Texas v. Wfrhite, 7 Wall. 700, where
the court says, (p. 721,)" A State, in the ordinary sense of
the Constitution, is a political community of free citizens, occupying a territory of definite boundaries and organized under
the government's sanction and limited by a written constitution and established by the consent of the governed. It is
the union of such States under a common Constitution which
forms the distinct and greater political unit, which that Constitution designates as the United States, and makes of the
people and States which compose it, one people and one
country."
What the Constitution intends by the term "State" is the
sovereign State, a. legal although an artificial being, a great
political corporation with imperial prerogatives and powers,
the great State; the State that in the minds of many of the
men of the convention which framed the Constitution was
greater ahnost than the United States; the State of whose
proper sovereignty they would not give up one jot or tittle;
State which has a great seal; which has a seat of govern-

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

ment; which has a system of courts to decide any controversy
concerning an appointment; which has a military and civil
power which can record its decree; and which from its high
plane of sovereignty can command respect for its choice, and
if its choice is not respected can command obedience to its
will.
It is said that this clause of the Constitution provides that
this appointment shall be made "in such manner as the legislature may direct," and it is claimed that these words are so
plenary as to permit the legislature to take this great power
from the sovereign State, and, cutting it up, divide it among
fourteen disjointed, fractions of the territory of the State, each
of which shall choose one elector of President and Vice President of the United States. It is sufficient answer to this to
say, that under the form of prescribing the manner in which
the State shall appoint, the power is not conferred- upon the
legislature to deprive the State of all appointing power.
The Supreme Court of the State of Michigan, "admitting
that if the question were to be determined solely *by reference
to the language employed, there would be much force in the
contention that the State must act as a unit, and that no lesser
body could be delegated to perform any portion of the duty
vested in the State body corporate, and that it might possibly be held that the words ' in such maner as the legislature
thereof may direct' confer only the limited power of directing
how the State, acting as an entirety, shall make its appointment," held that the case was a proper one in which to have
resort to contemporaneous construction, and reached the conclusion that such contemporaneous construction settled the
legality of district electors.
We submit, with great deference, that that learned court
was in error in this respect: (a) because the language of the
Constitution is so plain, clear and determinate that it requires
no interpretation; and (b) because there has, in fact, been no
such interpretation.
(a) The rule as to interpretation is thus stated by Mr. Justice Story: "Where its words are plain, clear and determinate they require no interpretation, and it should therefore

OCTOBER TERIf, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

be admitted, if at all, with great caution, and only from necessity, either .to escape some absurd consequence, or to guard
against some fatal evil. Where the words admit of two senses,
each of which is conformable to common usage, that sense is
to be adopted which, without departing from the literal import
of the words, best harmonizes with the nature and objects,
scope and design, of the instrument. Contemporary construction is properly resorted to to illustrate and confirm the text,
to explain a doubtful phrase, or to expound an obscure clause;
and in proportion to the uniformity and universality of that
construction, and the known ability and talents of those by
whom it was given, is the credit to which it is entitled. It can
never abrogate the text, it can never fritter away its obvious
sense, it can never narrow down its true limitations, it can
never enlarge its natural boundaries." Now, in this case, as
has already been said, the language is clear, and no interpretation is necessary.
(b) But even if it wvrere otherwise, there has been no such
continuous action as to amount to an interpretation. The
mere fact that among the variant methods of appointing
presidential electors, which came into practice a few years
after the adoption of the Constitution, a few of the States did
for a time choose electors by districts, is not evidence of any
such contemporaneous construction as should conclude the
court from giving the true and plain exposition of the text.
On the contrary, the fact, which is historical, that all the
States which had originally adopted a district system soon
abandoned it, and that as early as 1834 presidential electors
in every State in the Union were appointed by the State,
being chosen either by the popular vote or by the legislature,
is evidence that the real contemporaneous construction of this
provision was adverse to the-district plan.
In' the election of 1788, ten States participated. In five,
the appointments were made by the legislatures. In two,
1 In the briefs of counsel this subject is treated much at length, with ful
references to authorities. A brief summary is thought to be sufficient to
make the general line of argument clear.

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the electors were elected by the people on a general ticket.
In two, the State was divided into congressional districts, in
each of which two candidates for elector were chosen, from
which the legislature elected one as an elector. In Virginia
alone, were the electors elected separately in each district.
Fifteen States took part in the election of 1792. In nine
the electors were chosen by the legislature. In three, they
were elected by the people on a general ticket. In Virginia,
as before, the electors were elected in separate districts, and
Massachusetts and North Carolina adopted schemes partaking in part of the nature of an election by the people in
districts, and in part of the nature of an election by the legislature.
In the election of 1796 sixteen States took part. In nine,
the electors were appointed by the legislature. Two adhered
to a popular election on a general ticket. Three adhered to
the district system. Massachusetts adhered to its own system
and Tennessee delegated the power to citizens named by the
legislature.
In 1800 party strife ran high, and some changes were made
and others attempted with a view to affect the general result.
Massachusetts and Virginia gave up the district system and
adopted that of electing by the legislature. Pennsylvania
adopted a modified form of the latter system.
The action of the two populous Statds of Virginia and Massachusetts in abandoning. the district method in the election of
1800, but for opposite political or party reasons, settled the
fate of that inethod, and it was only a question of time when
it would entirely disappear. The system of electing by general
ticket was definitely adopted by North Carolina in 1812, Kentucky and Massachusetts in 1824, Indiana and Illinois in 1828,
New York, Delaware, Tennessee, and Maine in 1832; and by
Maryland in 1838. Since the presidential election of 1832, the
district method has not been used by any State in the union.
This is an abandonment for sixty years; and when the
reasons which led the States to this course are considered, it is
certainly a most important and significant fact. The method
of having the electors appointed by the concurrent or joint

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

vote of the two houses of the legislature of a State, was also
abandoned as a part of the same evolution, and with nearly
the same unanimity. South Carolina, with a legislature always fresh from the people, continued the practice until 1860.
All the other States had abandoned the system by 1828, except
Delaware, and it was abandoned there before 1832. During
the reconstruction period, before all the Southern States had
been re-admitted to Congress and the Union, Florida used the
legislative method for a single election, that of 1868, the legislature and state officers having been elected in Mlay, and no
other statelelection being provided for until 1870. Colorado
was admitted to the Union August 1, 1876, and a legislature
and state officers were elected on the first Tuesday of October.
To save the expense and trouble of another election, thk legislature made the appointments for that year. The legislative
appointments in Florida and Colorado were, therefore, provisional or temporarr; and that method was resorted to
because of the exceptional conditions, and not for the purpose
of overcoming or overriding the political sentiments or preferences of a majority of the people in those States.
The district system of choosing electors was not obnoxious
to the Constitution in its original object and purpose, for the
reason that if that object and purpose had been attainable and
had been actually accomplished, any division in the votes of
the electors of a State, would have been the result of an exercise by each elector of his individual judgment and discretion,
and not the result of the political will or partisan voice of the
district by which he was chosen ; but it is obnoxious to that
plan as it was practically and ultimately developed, and as it
has now for sixty years actually existed. The legislation
establishing it in the early history of the nation took place in
times of partisan excitement, and should have no more weight
with a court as a construction of the Constitution than the law
that we are discussing should have weight; for the legislation
then was prompted by and born of the very same spirit of
,which this lair is born, a mad desire for temporary power.
There is no rule of constitutional interpretation, or of judicial
,duty, which requires the court, in determining the constitu-

McPEERSON v. BLACKER.
Argument for. Plaintiffs in Error.

tional validity of the district system, to adhere to the obsolete
original design of the Constitution, and to disregard the plan
of the'electoral college as it actually exists, after a century of
practical experience and development.
In the late Mr. Justice Miller's Lectures on the Constitutioi
of the United States, p. 149, is the following: "As originally
adopted, and as it now exists, it was supposed that the body
of electors interposed between the, state legislatures and the
presidential office would exercise a. reasonable independence
and fair judgment in. the selection of the chief executive of
the national government, and that thus the evil of a President
selected by immediate popular suffrage on the one side, and
the opposite evil of an election by the direct vote of the States
in their legislative bodies on the other, would both be avoided.
A very short experience, however, demonstrated that these
electors, whether chosen by the legislatures of the States, as
they were originally, or by the popular suffrage of each State,
as they have come to be now, or by limited districts in each
State, as was at one time the prevailing system, are always
but the puppets selected under a moral restraint to vote for
some particular person who represented the preferences of the
appointing power, whether that was the legislature or the
more popular suffrage by which the legislature itself was
elected. So that it has come to pass that this curious
machinery is only a' mode of casting the vote to which a
State is entitled in the election of President in favor of that
candidate who is the favorite of the majority of the people
entitled to vote for the more popular branch of the state
legislature in each State:"
And in In .'eGreen, 134 U. S. 377, 379, this court said,
speaking through Mr. Justice Gray:
"The sole function of the presidential electors is to cast,
certify and transmit the vote of the State for President and
Vice President of the nation. Although the electors are appointed and act under and pursuant to the Constitution of the
United States, they are no more officers or agents of the
United States than are the members of the state legislatures
when acting as electors of federal senators, or the people of

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the States when acting as electors of representatives in Congress. Constitution, art. 1, sects. 2, 3.
"In accord with the provisions of the Constitution Congress
has determined the time as of which the number of electors
shall be ascertained, and the days on which they shall be
appointed, and shall meet and vote in the States, and on
which their votes shall be counted in Congress; has provided
for the filling by each State, in such manner as its legislature
may prescribe, of vacancies in its college of electors;. and has
regulated the manner of certifying and transmitting their
votes to the seat of the national government, and the course
of proceedifig in their opening and counting them. Rev. Stat.
§§ 131-143; Acts of February 3, 1887, c. 90, 24 Stat. 373;
October 19, 1888, c. 1216, 25 Stat. 613.
"Congress has never undertaken to interfere with the
manner of appointing electors, or, where (according to the
general usage) the mude of appointment prescribed by the law
of the State is election by the. people, to regulate the conduct of such election, or to punish any fraud in voting for
electors; but has left these matters to the control of the
States."
II. The Michigan Statute is in violation of the Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution of th, United
States.
The electoral system, as it actually exists, having b ,"r, recognized by those amendments, the general ticket metho' for
choosing presidential electors was thereby made the permanent
and only constitutional method of appointment.
At the time of the adoption of those amendments in every
State of the Union the male inhabitants thereof twenty-one
years of age, and citizens of the United States, by express provision of law, possessed and exercised the right of voting at an
election for the electors of President and Vice President of
the United States, and the right of voting for all the electors
of President and Vice President of the United States to which
the State was entitled.
That this was a right and a privilege no one will deny; that
it cannot be abridged by state legislation must be conceded.

McPE RSON v. BLACKER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The only question that remains is: does Act No. 50 of the
Public Acts of 1891 deprive any citizen of the United States of
twenty-one years-of age, who is an inhabitant of Michigan, of
his right to vote for electors of President and Vice President
of the United States, or does it in any manner abridge this right?
Under the prior law every citizen of the United States who
was a male inhabitant of Michigan and twenty-one years of
age had the right to vote for as many electors of President and
Vice President as the State was entitled to elect of Senators
and Representatives in Congress. At the coming election in
M,ichigan that would be fourteen. Under Act No. 50 no such
citizen has the right to vote for more than two such electors.
In other words, his right under the Fourteenth Amendment, if
it is applicable, is to vote for fourteen electors of President
and Vice President, while under Act No. 50 that right is so
abridged that he can vote for but two. It is too plain for argument that if the amendment applies there is an abridgment,
if not a denial, of this right.
I am not unmindful that this reasoning will render necessary the striking out of Article II, section 1, clause 2, of the
Constitution, the words "in such manner as the legislature
thereof may direct." Such, I believe, to be the effect of the
amendment.
The electors of President and Vice President, under the
amendment, must be chosen by the votes of the qualified
citizens at an election for that purpose. There cannot be any
other construction of the words "the right to vote at an election for the choice of electors of President and Vice President
of the United States."
It cannot be said that if the voter votes for members of a
legislature which chooses the electors, this will satisfy the
amendment. The amendment gives him by its express terms
the right to vote for "members of the legislature" and "electors of President and Vice President."
This right to vote for electors- not for one elector, not for
as many as the legislature may name, but for all -this
right
which is specifically named, cannot' be taken away by any
subsequent act of a state legislature.
VOL. CXLVI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

III. The Michigan statute is in -conflict with the act of
Congress of February 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 373, c. 90.
be seen by placing the two in parallel columns.
Act -Ao. 50.

Act of Oongres .
SEC.

1. Electors of each

State to meet on the second
Monday in January following their appointment.
SEC. P makes it the duty of
the .Expoutiveof each State to
commtinicae under the seal
of the State to the Secretary
of State of the United States
a certificate of the ascertainment of 1he electors appointed
setting forth their ames, the
canvass, an& the nuniber of
'votesfor eachpersonfor whose
app'ointment any or a1 'voies
have been given or castd, also
to deliver to the electors, of
such State the same certilicate in triplicate under the
seal of the State.
Such certificate to the electors shall be inclosed and
transmitted by the electors
at the same time and in the
same manner as is provided
by law for the. transmitting
by such electors to the seat
.of government the lists of all
persons voted for as President
and of all persons voted' for
as Vice President.

This will

SEC.

4. Electors shall con-

vene . . . on the fi'st
Wednesday in ]December inmediately following their
election.
!SEc. 3 makes it the duty
o the secretary of state to
p~epare three lists of the
names of the electors and
alternate electors, procure
thereto the signature of the
governor, affix the seal of the
State thereto, and deliver
such certificates thus signed
and sealed to one of the
electors on or before the first
Wednesday
of December
next following the'election.

NOTE. - That no provision
is made in the state act for
sending any certificate to the
Secretary of State of the
United States or any other
United States officials and no
provision for making any
statement of the number of
votes given for any and all
persons for whose appoint,
ment any votes were cast.

We understand it to be conceded that, in so far as it confintts xVith the act of Congress, the state statute is void. We

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

contend that such a conflict in legislation invalidates the whole
act. When an act of a state legislature, purporting to carry
out a duty imposed on the State by the Constitution of the
United States, directs certain officers of the State to do certain
things, which the act of Congress passed in pursuance of the
Constitution of the United States, commands other state officers to do and to perform in a different manner, the whole of
the state law is illegal and void. The vice of the state law is
that it is in. hostility to the act of Congress. There is no presumption that the, state law was passed in ignorance of the
United States law. The legislature are presumed to know the
laws of the United States governing state action.
-Mr.A. A. Ellis, Attorney General of the State of Michigan, (with whom was Xr. John IT Champlin on the brief,)
and MAr. Otto firchner,for defendant in error, said, on the
question of jurisdiction
I. The decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan, refusing the mandamus prayed 'or, is not reviewable by
this court, because: (a) The case does not fall within the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, Rev. Stat. § 709; and (b) The
subject matter of this controversy is not of judicial cognizance.
(a) Under Rev. Stat. § 709 this court may review the final
judgment or decree in any suit by the highest court of a
State in the following cases only: (1) Where is drawn in
question the validity of a statute of or an authority exercised
under the United States, and the decision is against its validity; or (2) Where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of or authority exercised under any State on the ground
of their being repugnant to .the Constitution, treaties or laws
of the United States, and the decision is in favor of their
validity; or (3) Where any title, right, privilege or immunity
is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of,
or commission held, or authority exercised under the United
Stgtef, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege or
immunity specially set up or claimed by either party under
such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission or authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Rycn v. Thomas, 4 Wall. 603; Caperton v. Ballard, 14 Wall.
238; Simmerrdn v. Yebraska, 116 U. S. 54.
The validity of the law in question is in no way involved in
the application for the mandamus. Thdre is nothing inconsistent between it and the statute under which the respondent,
secretary of state, is required to act. It cannot, therefore,
be claimed that the validity of a statute of the State of Michigan on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution,
treaty or laws of the United States, is drawn in question in
the mandamus proceeding. The case, therefore, is not within
the second subdivision of § 25 of the Judiciary Act.
Neither can it be claimed that any right, privilege or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty, or
statute of, or commission held, or authority exercised under
the United States, and that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Michigan was against any such title, right, privilege
or immunity. The case, therefore, is not within the last
clause of § 25 of the Judiciary Act.
It cannot be contended that it is under the first subdivision
of the section.
The duty of the secretary of state to give the statutory
notice of the election was a public duty. But conceding, for
the sake of argument, that a candidate for office at the next
general election has a right under the statute to insist that
notice of the election shall be given, and to enforce such right
by mandamus; the right, if any, rests entirely upon the statute of the State of Michigan, and is in no way affected by the
Constitution, or treaty, or statute, or commission held or
authority exercised under the United States.
It is true that the Supreme Court of Michigan in passing
-ipon the relators' right to the mandamus prayed for decided
that the law did not conflict with any provision of the Federal
Constitution, and that it was void only so far as it conflicted
with the Act of Congress. But the expression by the state
court of an opinionIupon a Zederal question does not give this
court jursdicti&o. of the case unless it appears that it was
necessary to pass upon the Federal question ?n order to decide
the case; and if a decision might have been reached by the

rcPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

state court without passing upon the Federal question this
court will not take cognizance of the cause. Railroad Co. v.
Rock, 4 Wall. 177; -Lawlerv. Walker, 14 How. 149 ; De Saussure v. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216.
There are other grounds upon which the decision of the
court refusing the mandamus might have been placed without
touching any Federal question. A mandamus is not a writ of
right in Michigan even when it is asked against a public
officer to compel him to discharge a public duty. In all cases
it is granted or refused in the sound discretion of the court.
People v. Regents of the University of .Xichigan, 4 Michigan,
98; -fabley v. Superior Court Judge of Detroit, 41 Michigan,
31 ; Hale v. Risley, 69 Michigan, 596.
(b) The subject-matter of this controversy is not of judicial
cognizance. Judicial power is, in its nature, necessarily exclusive. It does not trench upon the domain of any other department of the government. It will not allow any other
department of the government to trench upon its domain. A
matter is of judicial cognizance when the courts have power
to dispose of it finally. Miller on the Constitution, 314 ;, Rayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 408, 409, note; United States v. Ferreira,
13 How. 40; United States v. Yale Todd, 13 How. 52, note;
In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472.
Applying the principles of these decisions to the case at bar,
we say that this controversy is not judicial, because whatever
decision this court, or any other court, may make as to the
validity of the state law, is subject to review by political
officers and agencies. See Royce v. Goodwin, 22 Michigan,
496, and Sutherland v. The Governor, 29 Michigan, 320.
The legal status of the situation may be stated thus:
1. The canvass and final- determination as to who is elected
to the office of elector rests with the board of state canvassers in the first instance. This decision is not subject to
review or control by any court within the State of Michigan.
2. If the decision of the board of canvassers as to -who is
elected to the office of presidential elector is contested,-the
final decision of the controversy rests in the next place with
the legislature of the State in joint convention. It cannot -be

OCTOBER TERM: 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

contended that the action of the legislature is subject to
judicial review or control.
3. It then rests with the governor of the State, whose duty
it is to certify the action of the state board of canvassers. He
may have to decide between contending boards. The action
of the governor, as we have already shown, is not subject to
judicial review or control.
47-And, finally, the whole matter rests with both houses of
the Congress of the United States.
It is manifest, therefore, that whatever decision the court
may render in this case is not final, but is subject to review
by the political agencies already referred to.
The object of this proceeding is not to determine whether
the notice prayed for in the petition should be given, but to
obtain a decision upon the validity of the State law. That
decision is, as we have already seen, subject to review, and
subject to be utterly disregarded by the various political
agencies referred to.
IL This court is bound by the decision of the Supreme
Court of Michigan as to all matters sought to be raised by the
petition, except the question as to whether the state statute
contravenes the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
The only conflict between the state statute and the act of
Congress relates to the time of the meeting of the electors
and the certification of their appointment. Wherever the
state law and the act of Congress conflict, the latter of course
controls. The Supreme Court of Mfichigan held that what
remained of the state law was a valid expression of the
legislative will within constitutional limitations. The validity
of so much of the state statute as does not conflict with the
act of Congress, barring the Federal question already referred
to, is, we submit, a question of local law upon which the
determination of the local tribunal is conclusive.
MR. CHmF JUSTXcE FuLLEr, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.'
IThe judgment of affirmance was entered as above stated October 17,
1892, and the mandate issued at once. The opinion was delivered and filed
November 7, 1892.

McPHERSOIT v. BLACICER.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Michigan held in effect that if the
act in question were invalid, the proper remedy had been
sought. In other words, if the court had been of opinion that
the act was void, the writ of mandamus would have been
awarded.
And, having ruled all objections to the validity of the act
urged as arising under the state constitution and laws adversely to the plaintiffs in error, the court was compelled to,
and. did, consider and dispose of the contention that the act
was invalid because repugnant to the Constitution and laws of
the United States.
We are not authorized to revise the conclusions of the state
court on these matters of local law, and those conclusions
being accepted, it follows that the decision of the Federal
questions is to be regarded as necessary to the determination
of the cause. DeSaussu're v. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216.
Inasmuch as under section '709 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, we have jurisdiction by writ of error to
re-examine and reverse or affirm the final judgment in any
suit in the highest court of a State in which a decision could
be had, where the validity of a statute of the State is drawn
in question on the ground that it is repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States and the decision is in favor
of its validity, we perceive no reason for holding that this writ
was improvidently brought.
It is argued that the subject-matter of the controversy is
not of judicial cognizance, because it is said that all questions
connected with the election of a presidential elector are
political in their nature; that the court has no power finally
to dispose of them; and that its decision would be subject to
review by political officers and agencies, as the state board
of canvassers, the legislature in joint convention, and th
governor, or, finally, the Congress.
But the judicial power of the United States extends to all
cases in law or equity arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, and this is a case so arising, since the
validity of the state law was drawn in question as repugn-ant
to such constitution and laws, and its validity was sustained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.

Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135. And it matters not that the
judgment to be reviewed may be rendered in a proceeding for
mandamus. Ilartman v. C'eenkow, 102 U. S. 672.
As we concur with the state court, its judgment has been
affirmed; if we had not, its judgment would have been reversed. In either event, the questions submitted are finally
and definitively disposed of by the judgment which we
pronounce, and that judgment is carried into effect by the
transmission of our mandate to the state court.
The question of the validity of this act, as presented to us
by this record, is a judicial question, and we cannot decline
the exercise of our jurisdiction upon the inadmissible suggestion that action might be taken by political agencies in disregard of the judgment of the highest tribunal of the State as
revised by our own.
On behalf of plaintiffs in error it is contended that the act
is void because in conflict with (1) clause two of section one of
Article II of the Constitution of .the United States; (2) the
Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution;
and (3) the act of Congress of February 3, 1887.
The second clause of section one of Article II of the Constitution is in these words: "Each State shall appoint, in such
Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of
Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress;
but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office
of Trust or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed
an Elector."
The manner of the appointment of electors directed by the
act of 1{ichigan is the election of an elector and an alternate
elector in each of the twelve Congressional districts into which
the State of Michigan is divided, and of an elector and an
alternate elector at large in each of two districts defined by
the act. It is insisted that it was not competent for the legislature to direct this manner of appointment because the State
is to appoint as a body -politic and corporate, and so must act
as a unit and cannot delegate the authority to subdivisions
created for the purpose; and it is argued that the appoint-

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of electors by districts is not an appointment by the
State, because all its citizens otherwise qualified are not permitted to vote for all the presidential electors.
"A State in the ordinary sense of the Constitution," said
Chief Justice Chase, Texas v. WFit, 7 Wall. 700, 721, "is a
political community of free citizens, occupying a territory of
defined boundaries, and organized under a government sanctioned and limited by a written constitution, and established
by the consent of the governed." The State does not act by
its people in their collective capacity, but through such political agencies as are duly constituted and established. The
legislative power is the supreme authority except as limited
by the consritution of the State, and the sovereignty of the
people is exercised through their representatives in the legislature unless by the fundamental law power is elsewhere
reposed. The Constitution of the United States frequently
refers to the State as apolitical community, and also in terms
to the people of the several States and the citizens of each
State. What is forbidden or required to be done by a State is
forbidden or required of the legislative power under state constitutions as they exist. The clause under consideration does
not read that the people or the citizens shall appoint, but that
"each State shall"; and if the words "in such manner as the
legislature thereof may direct," had been omitted, it would
seem that the legislative power of appointment could not have
been successfully questioned in the -bsence of any provision in
the state constitution in that regard. Hence the insertion of
those words, while operating as a limitation upon the State in
respect of any attempt to circumscribe the legislative power,
cannot be held to operate as a limitation on that power itself.
If the legislature possesses plenary authority to direct tfe
manner of appointment, and might itself exercise the appointing power by joint ballot or concurrence of the two houses, or
according to such niode as designated, it is difficult to perceive
why, if the legislature prescribes as a method of appointment
choice by vote, it must necessarily be by general ticket and
not by districts. In other words, the act of appointment is
none the less the act of the State in its entirety because ar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

rived at by districts, for the act is the act of political agencies
duly authorized to speak for the State, and the combined result is the expression of the voice of the State, a result reached
by direction of the legislature, to whom the whole subject is
committed.
By the first paragraph of section two, Article I, it is provided: "The iHouse of Representatives shall be composed of
Members chosen every second year by the people of the several States, and the Electors in each Rtate shall have the
Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous
Branch of the State Legislature;" and by the third paragraph
"when vacancies happen in the Representation from any
State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue *Writs
Section four reads:
of Election to fill such Vacancies."
"The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for
Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State
by the Legislature thereof ; but the Congress may at any time
by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to the
Places of choosing Senators."
Although it is thus declared that the people of the several
States shall choose the members of Congress, (language which
induced the State of New York to insert a salvo as to the
power to divide into districts, in its resolutions of ratification,)
the state legislatures, prior to 1842, in prescribing the times,
places and manner of holding elections for representatives, had
usually apportioned the State into districts, and assigned to
each a representative; and by act of Congress of June 255,
18-2, 5 Stat. 491, c. 47, (carried forward as § 23 of -the Revised Statutes), it was provided that where a State was entitled
to more than one representative, the election should be by districts. It has never been doubted that representatives in Congress thus chosen represented the entire people of the State
acting in their sovereign capacity.
By original clause three of section one of Article II, and by
the Twelfth Amendment which superseded that clause, in case
of a failure in the election of President by the people, the
House of Representatives is to choose the President; and
"the vote shall be taken by States, the representation from

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

each State basing one vote." The State acts as a unit and its
vote is given as a unit, but that vote is arrived at through the
votes of its representatives in Congress elected by districts.
The State also acts individually through its electoral college,
although, by reason of the power of its legislature over the
manner of appointment, the vote of its electors may be divided.
The Constitution does not provide that the appointment of
electors shall be by popular vote, nor that the electors shall be
voted for upon a general ticket, nor that the majority of those
who exercise the elective franchise can alone choose the electors. It recognizes that the people act through their representatives in the legislature, and leaves it to the legislature
exclusively to define the method of effecting the object.
The framers of the Constitution employed words in their
natural sense; and where they are plain and clear, resort to
collateral aids to interpretation is unnecessary and cannot be
indulged in to narrow or enlarge the text; but where there is
ambiguity or doubt, or where two views may well be entertained, contemporaneous and subsequent practical construction
are entitled to the greatest weight. Certainly, plaintiffs in
error cannot reasonably assert that the clause of the Constitution under consideration so plainly sustains their position as to
entitle them to object that contemporaneous history and practical construction~are not to be allowed their legitimate force,
and, conceding that their argument inspires a doubt sufficient
to justify resort to the aids of interpretation thus afforded, we
are of opinion that such doubt is thereby resolved against
them, the contemporaneous practical exposition of the Constitution being too strong and obstinate to be shaken or controlled. Stuart v. Laird, 1 Oranch, 299, 309.
It has been said that the word "appoint" is not the most
appropriate word to describe the result of a popular election.
Perhaps not; but it is sufficiently comprehensive to cover that
mode, and was manifestly used as conveying the broadest
power of determination. It was used in Article V of the
Articles of Confederation, which provided that "delegates
shall be annually appointed in such manner as the legislature

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of each State shall direct;" and in the resolution of Congress
of February 21, 1787, which declared it expedient that "a convention of delegates who shall have been appointed by the
several States," should be held. The appointment of delegates was, in fact, made by the legislatures directly, but that
involved no denial of authority to direct some other mode.
The Constitutional Convention, by resolution of September 17,
1787, expressed the opinion that the Congress should fix a day
"on which electors should be appointed by the States which
shall have ratified the same," etc., and that "after such publication, the electors should be appointed, and the Senators and
Representatives elected."
The Journal of the Convention discloses that propositions
that the President should be elected by "the citizens of the
United States," or by the "people," or "by electors to be
chosen by the people of the several States," instead of by the
Congress, were voted down, (Jour. Con. 286, 288; 1 Elliot's
Deb. 208, 262,) as was the proposition that the President
should be "chosen by electors appointed for that purpose by
the legislatures of the States," though at one time adopted.
Jour. Con. 190; 1 Elliot's Deb. 208, 211, 217. And a motion
to postpone the consideration of the choice "by the national
legislature," in order to take up a resolution providing for
electors to be elected by the qualified voters in districts, was
negatived in Committee of the Whole. Jour. Con. 92; 1
Elliot's Deb. 156. Gerry proposed that the choice should be
made by the State executives; Hamilton, that the election be
by electors chosen by electors chosen by the people; James
Wilson and Gouverneur Morris were strongly in favor of popular vote; Ellsworth and Luther Martin preferred the choice
by electors elected by the legislatures; and Roger Sherman,
appointment by Congress. The final result seems to have
reconciled contrariety of views by leaving it to the state legislatures to appoint directly by joint ballot or concurrent separate action, or through popular election by districts or by
general ticket, or as otherwise might be directed.
Therefore, on reference to contemporaneous and subsequent
action under the clause, we should expect to find, as we do,

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

that various modes of choosing the electors were pursued, as,
by the legislature itself on joint ballot; by the legislature
through a concurrent vote of the two houses; by vote of
the people for a general ticket; by vote of the people in
districts; by choice partly by the people voting in districts
and partly by the legislature; by choice by the legislature
from candidates voted for by the people in districts; and in
other ways, as, notably, by North Carolina in 1792, and
Tennessee in 1796 and 1800. No question was raised as to the
power of the State to appoint, in any mode its legislature saw
fit to adopt, and none that a single method, applicable without
exception, must be pursued in the absence of an amendment to
the Constitution. The district system was largely considered
the most equitable, and Madison wrote that it was that system
which was contemplated by the framers of the Constitution,
although it was soon seen that its adoption by some States
might place them at a disadvantage by a division of their
strength, and that a uniform rule was preferable.
At the first presidential election the appointment of electors was made by the legislatures of Connecticut, Delaware,
Georgia, New Jersey and South Carolina. Pennsylvania, by
act of October 4, 1788, Acts Penn. 1787-1788, p. 513, provided for the election of electors on a general ticket. Virginia, by act of November 17, 1788, was divided into twelve
separate districts and an elector elected in each district, while
for the election of Congressmen the State was divided into
ten other districts. Laws Va. Oct. Sess. 1788, pp. 1, 2; 12
Henning's Stat. 648. In Massachusetts the general court, by
resolve of November 17, 1788, divided the State into districts
for the election of Representatives in Congress, and provided
for their election December 18, 1788, and that at the same
time the qualified inhabitants of each district should give their
votes for two persons as candidates for an elector of President
and Vice President of the United States, and, from the two
persons in each district having the greatest number of votes,
the two houses of the general court by joint ballot should
elect one as elector, and in the same way should elect two
electors at large. Mass. Resolves, 1788, p. 53. In Maryland,

OCTOBER TERS, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

under act of December 22, 1788, electors were elected on general ticket, five being residents of the Western Shore and three
of the Eastern Shore. Laws Md. 1788, Nov. Sess. c. 10. In
New Hampshire an act was passed November 12, 1788, Laws
N. H. 1789, p. 167, providing for the election of five electors
by majority popular vote, and in case of no choice that the
legislature should appoint out of so many of the candidates as
equalled double the number of electors elected. There being no
choice the appointment was made by the legislature. The senate would not agree to a joint ballot, and the house was compelled, that the vote of the State might not be lost, to concur
in the electors chosen by the senate. The State of New York
lost its vote through a similar contest. The assembly was
willing to elect by joint ballot of the two branches or to divide
the electors with the senate, but the senate would assent to
nothing short of a complete negative upon the action of the
assembly, and the time for election passed without an appointment. North Carolina and Rhode Island had not then
ratified the Constitution.
Fifteen States participated in the second presidential election, in nine of which electors were chosen by the legislatures.
Maryland, (Laws Md. 1790, c. 16, [2 Kelty]; Laws 1791, c. 62,
[2 ]Kelty],) Neiv Hampshire, (Laws N. H. 1792, 393, 401,) and
Pennsylvania (Laws Penn. 1792, p. 240,) elected their electors
on a general ticket, and Virginia by districts. Laws Va.
1792, p. 87, [13 Henning, 536]. In Massachusetts the general
court by resolution of June 30, 1792, divided the State into
four districts, in each of two of which five electors were elected,
and in each of the other two three electors. Mass. Resolves,
June, 1792, p. 25. Under the apportionment of April 13,
1792, North Carolina was entitled to ten members of the
House of Representatives. The legislature was not in session
'and did not meet until November 15, while under the act of
Collgress of March 1, 1792, (1 Stat. 239, c. 8,) the electors were
to assemble on December 5. The legislature passed an act
dividing the State into four districts, and directing the members of the legislature residing in each district to meet on the
25th of November and choose three electors. 2 Iredell N.

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Car. Laws,1T15 to 1800, c. 15 of 1792. At the same session
an act was passed dividing the State into districts for the
election of electors in 1796, and every four years thereafter.
Id. c. 16.
Sixteen States took part in the third presidential election,
Tennessee having been admitted June 1, 1796. In nine States
the electors were appointed by the legislatures, and in Pennsylvania and New Hampshire by popular vote for a general
ticket. Virginia, iNorth Carolina, and Maryland elected by
districts. The Maryland law of December 24, 1795, was entitled "An act to alter the mode of electing electors," and provided for dividing the State into ten districts, each of which
districts should "elect and appoint one person, being a resident of the said district, as an elector." Laws Md. 1795, c.
73, [2 Kelty]. Massachusetts adhered to the district system,
electing one elector in each Congressional district by a majority vote. It was provided that if no one had a majority, the
legislature should make the appointment on joint ballot, and
the legislature also appointed iwo electors at large in the same
manner. Mass. Resolves, June, 1796,- p. 12. In Tennessee
an act was passed August 8, 1796, which provided for the
election of three electors, "one in the district of Washington,
one in the district of Hamilton, and one in the. district of
Mero," and, "that the said electors may be elected with as
little trouble to the citizens as possible," certain persons of the
counties of Washington, Sullivan, Green, and Hawkins were
named in the act and appointed electors to elect an elector for
the district of Washington ; certain other persons of the counties of Knox, Jefferson, Sevier, and Blount were by name appointed to elect an elector for the district of Hamilton; and
certain others of the counties of Davidson, Sumner, and Tennessee to elect an elector for the district of Mero. Laws Tenr'.
1794, 1803, p. 109; Acts 2d Sess. 1st Gen. Assembly Tenn. c. 4.
Electors were chosen by the persons thus designated.
In the fourth presidential election, Virginia, under the advice of Mr. Jefferson, adopted the general ticket, at least
"until some uniform mode of choosing a President and VicePresident of the United States shall be prescribed by an amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ment to the Constitution." Laws Va. 1799, 1800, p. 3. Massachusetts passed a resolution providing that the electors of
that State should be appointed by joint ballot of the senate
and house. Mass. Resolves, June, 1800, p. 13. Pennsylvania
appointed by the legislature, and upon a contest between the
senate and house, the latter was forced to yield to the senate
in agreeing to an arrangement which resulted in dividing the
vote of the electors. 26 Niles' Reg. 17. Six States, however,
chose electors by popular vote, Rhode Island supplying the
place of Pennsylvania, which had theretofore followed that
course. Tennessee, by act of October 26, 1799, designated
persons by name to choose its three electors as under the act
of 1796. Laws Tenn. 1794-1803, p. 21i; Acts 2d Sess. 2d
Gen. Ass. Tenn. c. 46.
Without pursuing the subject further, it is sufficient to
observe that, while most of the States adopted the general
ticket system, the district method obtained in Kentucky until
1824; in Tennessee and 'Maryland until 1832; in Indiana in
1824 and 1828; in Illinois in 1820 and 1824; and in Maine in
1820,1824 and 1828. Massachusetts used the general ticket system, in 1804, (Mass. Resolves, June, 1804, p. 19,) chose electors
by joint ballot of the legislature in 1808 and in 1816, (Mass.
Resolves, 1808, pp. 205, 207, 209; 1816, p. 233;) used the district system again in 1812 and in 1820, (Mass. Resolves, 1812,
p. 94; 1820, p. 245;) and returned to the general ticket system
in 1824, (Mass. Resolves. 1824, p. 40.) In New York the
electors were elected in 1828 by districts, the district electors
choosing the electors at large. N. Y. Rev. Stat. 1827, Part I,
Title vi, c. 6. The appointment of electors by the legislature,
instead of by popular vote, was made use of by North
Carolinat, Vermont and New Jersey in 1812.
In 1824 the electors were chosen by popular vote, by districts,
and by general ticket, in all the States excepting Delaware,
Georgia, Louisiana, New York, South Carolina, and Vermont,
where they were still chosen by the legislature. After 1832
electors were chosen by general ticket in all the States excepting South Carolina, where the legislature chose them up to and
including 1860. Journals 1860, Senate pp. 12, 13; House, 11,

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

15, 17. And this was the mode adopted by Florida in 1868,
(Laws 1868, p. 166,) and by Colorado in 1876, as prescribed by
§ 19 of the schedule to the constitution of the State, which
was admitted into the Union August 1, 1876. Gen. Laws
Colorado, 1877, pp. 79, 990.
Mr. Justice Story, in considering the subject in his Commentaries on the Constitution, and writing nearly fifty years
after the adoption of that instrument, after stating that "in
some States the legislatures have directly chosen the electors
by themselves; in others, they have been chosen by the people
by a general ticket throughout the whole State; and in others,
by the people by electoral districts, fixed by the legislature, a
certain number of electors being apportioned to each district,"
adds: "No question has ever arisen as to the constitutionality
of either mode, except that by a direct choice by the legislature. But this, though often doubted by able and ingenious
minds, (3 Elliot's Deb. 100, 101,) has been firmly established in
practice ever since the adoption of the Constitution, and does
not now seem to admit of controversy, even if a suitable tribunal existed to adjudicate upon it." And he remarks that "it
has been thought desirable by many statesmen to have the
Constitution amended so as to provide for a uniform mode of
choicb by the people." Story Const. 1st Ed. § 1466.
duch an amendment was urged at the time of the adoption
of the Twelfth Amendment, the suggestion being that all
electors should be chosen by popular vote, the States to be
divided for that purpose into districts. It was brought up
again in Congress in December, 1813, but the resolution for
submitting the amendment failed to be carried. The amendment was renewed in the House of Representatives in Decem-

ISee Stanwood on Presidential Elections, (3d ed.,) and Appleton's
Presidential Counts, passim; '2 Lalor's Encyclo. Pol. Science, 68; 4 Hild.
Hist. U. S., (Rev. Ed.,) 39, 382, 689; 5 Id. 389, 531; 1 Schouler's Hist. U.S. 72,
334; 2 Id. 184; 3 Id. 313,439; 2 Adams' Hist. U. S. 201; 4 Id. 285;

6 Id.

409, 413; 9 Id. 139; 1 McMaster's Hist. People U. S. 525; 2 Id. 85, 509; 3
Id. 188, 189, 194, 317; 2 Scharf's Hist. Md. 547; 2 Bradford's Mass. 335;
Life of Plumer, 104; 3 Niles' Register, 160; 5 Id. 372; 9 Id. 319, 349; 10
Id. 45, 177, 409; 11 Id. 296.
VOL. CXLVI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ber, 1816, and a provision for the division of the States into
single districts for the choice of electors received a majority
vote, but not two-thirds. Like amendments were offered in
the Senate by Messrs. Sanford of New York, Dickerson of
New Jersey and Macon of North Carolina. December 11,
1823, Senator Benton introduced an amendment providing that
each legislature should divide its State into electoral districts,
and that the voters of each district "should vote, in their own
proper persons," for President and Vice-President, but it was
not acted upon. December 16, and December 24, 1823,
amendments were introduced in the Senate by Messrs. Dickerson of New Jersey and Van Buren of New York, requiring
the choice of electors to be by districts; but these and others
failed of adoption, although there was favorable action in that
direction by the Senate in 1818, 1819 and 1822. December
22, 1823, an amendment was introduced in the House by Mr.
MeDuffie of South Carolina, providing that electors should be
chosen by districts assigned by the legislatures, but action was
not taken.' The subject was again brought forward in 1835,
1844, and subsequently, but need not be further dwelt upon,
except that it may be added that, on the 28th of May, 1874, a
report was made by Senator Morton, chairman of the Senate
Committee On Privileges and Elections, recommending an
amendment dividink the States into electoral districts, and
that the majority of the popular vote of each district should
give the candidate one presidential vote, but this also failed
to obtain action. In this report it was said : "The appointment of these electors is thus placed absolutely and wholly
with the legislatures of the several States. They may be
chosen by the legislature, or the legislature may provide
that they shall be elected by the people of the State at
large, or in districts, as are members of Congress, which was
the case formerly in many States; and it is, no doubt, competefit for the legislature to authorize the governor, or the

I1Benton's Thirty Years View, 37; 5 Bent. Cong. Deb. 110, 677; 7 Id.
472-74, 600; 3 Niles' Reg. 240, 334; 11 Id. 258, 274, 293, 349; Annals Cong.,
(1

8 12

-1

3

,) 847.

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Supveme Court of the State, or any other agent of its will, to
appoint these electors. This power is conferred upon the
legislatures of the States by the Constitution of the United
States, and cannot be taken from them or modified by their
State constitutions any mote than can their power to elect
Senators of the United States. Whatever provisions may be
made by statute, or by the state constitution, to choose
electors by the people, there is no doubt of the right of the
legislature to resume the power at any time, for it can neither
be taken away nor abdicated. ' Senate Rep. 1st Sess. 43 Cong.
No. 395.
From this review, in which we have been assisted by the
laborious research of counsel, and which might have been
greatly expanded, it is seen that from the'formation of the
government until now the practical construction of the clause
has wnceded plenary power to the state legislatures in the
matter of the appointment of electors.
Even' in the heated. controversy of 1876-1877 the electoral
voteof Colorado cast by electors chosen by the legislature passed
unchallenged; and our attention has not been drawn to any
previous attempt to submit to the courts the determination of
the constitutionality of state action.
In short, the appointment and mode of appointment of
electors belong exclusively to the States under the Constitution of the United States. They are, as remarked by Mr.
Justice Gray in In re Green, 134 U. S. 377, 379, "no more
officers or agents of the United States than are the members
of the state legislatures When acting as electors of Federal
senators, or the people of the States when acting as the
electors of representatives in Congress." Congress is-empowered to determine the time of choosing the electors and the
day on which they are to give their votes,.which is required to
be the same day throughout the United States, but otherwise
the power and jurisdiction of the State is exclusive, with the
exception of the provisions as to the number of electors and
the ineligibility of certain persons, so framed that Congressional
and Federal influence might be excluded.'
The question before us is not one of policy but of power, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

while public opinion had gradually brought all the States as
matter of fact to the pursuit of a uniform system of popular
election by general ticket, that fact does not tend to weaken
the force of contemporaneous and long continued previous
practice when and as different views of expediency prevailed.
The prescription of the written law cannot be overthrown
because the States have latterly exercised in a particular way
a power which they might have exercised in some other way.
The construction to which we have referred has prevailed too
long and been too uniform to justify us in interpreting the
language of the Constitution as conveying any other meaning than that heretofore ascribed, and it must be treated as
decisive.
It is argued that the district mode of choosing electors, while
not obnoxious to constitutional objection, if the operation of
the electoral system had conformed to its original objeat and
purpose, had become so in view of the practical working of
that system. Doubtless it was supposed that the electors
would exercise a reasonable indepefidence and fair judgment
in the selection of the Chief Executive, but experience soon
demonstrated that, whether chosen by the legislatures or by
popular suffrage on general ticket or in districts, they were so
chosen simply to register the will of the appointing power in
respect of a particular candidate.

In relation, then, to the

independence of the electors the original expectation may be
said to have been frustrated. Miller on Const. Law, 149;
Rawle on Const. 55; Story Const. § 1473; The Federalist,
No. 68. But we can perceive no reason for holding that the
power confided to the States by the Constitution has ceased to
exist because the operation of the system has not fully realized
the hopes of those by whom it was created. Still less can we
recognize the doctrine, that because the Constitution has been
iound in the march of time sufficiently comprehensive to be
applicable to conditions not within the minds of its framers,
and not arising in their time, it may, therefore, be wrenched
from the subjects expressly embraced within it, and amended
by judicial decision without action by the designated organs in
the mode by which alone amendments can be made.

MoPHERSON

. BLACKER.

Opinion of the Court.

Nor are we able to aiscover any conflict between this act
and the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution. The Fourteenth Amendment provides:
"SEoToN 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United

States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States and of the State wherein they reside. No
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
.

"SrmioN 2. Representatives shall be apportioned
among

the several States according to their respective numbers,
counting the whole number of persons in each State, exclud
ing Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at any
election for the choice of electors for President and VicePresident of the United States, Representatives in Congress,
the Executive and Judicial officers of a State, or the members
of the Legislature thereof, is 4enied to any of the male inhabitants of such State, being twenty-one years of age, and citizens
of the United States, or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion, or other crime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the
number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole number
of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State."
The first section of the Fifteenth Amendment reads: "The
right .of citizens of. the United States to vote shall not be
denied or abridged by the United States or by any State
on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude."
In 1he a~ughter-house Cases, 16 Wall. 36, this court held
that the first clause of the Fourteenth Amendment was primarily
intended to confer citizenship on the negro race; and, secondly, to give definitions of citizenship of the United States;
and citizenship of the States, and it recognized the distinction
between citizenship of a State and citizenship of the United
States by those definitions; that the privileges and immunities
of citizens of the States embrace generally those fundamental
civil rights for the security and establishment of which organ-

OCTOBER TERs, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ized society was instituted, and which remain, with certain
exceptions mentioned in the Federal Constitution, under the
care of the State governments; while -the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States are those which arise
out of the nature and essential character of the national government, the provisions of its Constitution, or its laws and
treaties made in pursuance thereof; and that it is the latter
which are placed under the protection of Congress by the
I
second clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We decided in .Xfinar v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, that the
right of suffrage was not necessarily one of the privileges or
immunities of citizenship before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that that amendment does not add to
these privileges and immunities, but simply furnishes an additional guaranty for the protection of such as the citizen already
has; that at the time of the adoption of that amendment,
suffrage was not coextensive with the citizenship of the State;
nor was it at the time of the adoption of the Constitution; and
that neither the Constitution nor the Fourteenth Amendment
made all citizens voters.
The Fifteenth Amendmenftexempted citizens of the United
States from discrimination in the exercise of the elective franchise on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude. The right to vote in the States comes from the States,
but the right of exemption from the prohibited discrimination
comes from the United States. The first has not been granted
or secured by the Constitution of the United States, but the
last has been. United States v. COuikshank, 92 U. S. 542;
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214.
If because it happened, at the time of the adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment, that those who exercised the elective
franchise in the State of Michigan were entitled to vote for all
the presidential electors, this right was rendered permanent
by that amendment, then the second clause of Article II has
been so amended that the States can no longer appoint in such
manner as the legislatures thereof may direct; and yet no such
result is indicated by the language used nor are the amendments necessarily inconsistent with that clause. The first

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

section of the Fourteenth Amendment does not. refer to the
exercise of the elective- franchise, though the second provides
that if the right to vote is denied or abridged to any male
inhabitant of the State having attained majority, and being
a citizen of the United States, then the basis of representation
to which each State is entitled in the Congress shall be proWhenever presidential electors are
portionately reduced.
appointed by popular election, then the right to vote cannot
be denied or abridged without invoking the penalty, and so of
the right to vote for representatives in Congress, the executive
and judicial officers of a State, or the members of the legislature thereof. The right to vote intended to be protected
refers to the right to vote as established by the laws and constitution of the State. There is no color for the contention
that under the amendments every male inhabitant of the
State being a citizen of the United States has from the time
of his majority a right to vote for presidential electors.
The object of the Fourteenth Amendment in respect of citizenship was to preserve equality of rights and to prevent
discrimination as between citizens, but not to radically change
the whole theory of the relations of the state and Federal
governments to each other, and of both governments to the
people. In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436.
The inhibition that no State shall deprive any person within
its jurisdiction of the bqual protection of the laws was designed
to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled
out as a special subject for discriminating and hostile legislation. Pembina Company v. Pennylvania, 125 U. S. 181, 188.
In Hayes v. iiissouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71, Mr. Justice Field,
speaking for the court, said: "The Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States does not prohibit
legislation which is limited either in the objects to which it is
directed, or by the territory within which it is to operate. It
merely requires that all persons subjected to such legislation
shall be treated alike, under like circumstances and conditions,
both in the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed.
As we said in Barbier v. Connolly, speaking of the Fourteenth
Amendment: ' Class legislation,. discriminating against some

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and favoring others, is prohibited; but legisl&tion which in
carrying out a public purpose is limited in its application, if
within the sphere of its operation it affects alike all persons similarly situated, is not within the amendment.' 113 U. S. 237."
If presidential electors are appointed by the legislatures, no
discrimination is made ;. if they are elected in districts where
each citizen has-an equal right to vote the same as any other
citizen has, no discrimination is made. Unless the authority
vested in the legislatures by the second clause of section 1 of
Article II has been divested and the State has lost its power
of appointment, except in one manner, the position taken on
behalf of relators is untenable, and it is apparent that neither
of these amendments can be given such effect.
The third clause of section 1.of Article II of the Constitution is: "The Congress may determine the time of choosing the
Electors, and the day on which they shall give their votes;
which day shall be the same throughout the United States."
Under the act of Congress of March 1, 1792, 1 Stat. 239,
c. 8, it was provided that the electors should meet and give
their votes on the first Wednesday in December at such place
in each State as should be directed by the legislature thereof,
and by act of Congress of January 23, 1845, 5 Stat. 721, c. 2,
that the electors should be appointed in each State on the
Tuesday next after the first Monday in the month of Novemher in the year in which they were to be appointed; provided
that each State might by law provide for the filling of any
vacancies in its college of electors when such college meets to
give its electoral vote; and provided .that when any State
shall have held an election for the purpose of choosing electors and has failed to make a choice on the day prescribed,
then the electors may be appointed on a subsequent day in
such manner as the State may by law provide. These provisions were carried forward into sections 131, 133, 134, and
'135 of the Revised Statutes. Rev. Stat. Title III, c. 1, p. 22.
By the act of Congress of February 3, 1887, entitled "An
act to fix the day for the meeting of the electors of President
and Vice President," etc., 24 Stat. 373, c. 90, it was provided
that the electors of each State should meet and give their

McPHERSON v. BLACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

votes on the second Monday in January next following their
appointment. The state law in question here fixes the first
Wednesday of December as the day for the meeting of the
electors, as originally designated by Congress. In this respect
it is in conflict with the act of Congress, and must necessarily
give way. lBut this part of the act is not so inseparably connected in substance with the other parts as to work the destruction of the whole act. Striking out the day for the
meeting, which had already been otherwise determined by
the act of Congress, the act remains complete in itself, and
capable of being carried out in accordance with the legislative
intent. The state law yields only to the extent of the collision.
Cooley Const. Lim. *178; Commonwealth v. IZinball, 24: Pick.
359 ; Iouston v. -Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 49. The construction to
this effect by the state court is of persuasive force, if not of
controlling weight. .
We do not think this result affected by the provision in act
No. 50 in relation to a tie vote. Under the constitution of
the State of Michigan, in case two or more persons have an
equal and the highest number of votes for any office, as canvassed by the board of state canvassers, the legislature in
joint convention chooses one of these persons to fill the office.
This rule is recognized in this act, which also makes it the
duty of the governor in such case to convene the legislature
in special session for the purpose of its application, immediately upon the determination by the board of state canvassers.
We entirely agree with the Supreme Court of Michigan
that it cannot be held as matter of law that the legislature
would not have provided for being convened in special session
but for the provision relating to the time of the meeting of
the elector. contained in the act; and are of opinion that that
date may be rejected and the act be held to remain otherwise
complete and valid.
And as the State is fully empowered to fill any vacancy
which may occur in its electoral college, when it meets to give
its electoral vote, we find nothing in the mode provided for
anticipating such an exigency which operates to invalidate
the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

We repeat that the main question arising for consideration
is one of power and not of policy, and we are unable to arrive
at any other conclusion than that the act of the legislature of
Michigan of May 1, 1891, is not void as in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States for want of power in its
enactment.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan must be
.Ajji'm ed.

VAIN WINKLE v. CROWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STA TES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABA4A.
No. 23. Argued and submitted, March 30, 1892.-Decided October 31, 1892.

By a contract in writing V. agreed to make for B. certain cotton-seed oilmill machinery, at a fixed price. It was made and shipped to B. and not
paid for. B. put it into use and afterwards executed to L. a mortgage
covering it. V. then brought a suit in detinue against C. a bailee of L.
for the property. L. was made a co-defendant. After the mortgage was
given, B. eecuted to V. notes for what was due to V. for the purchase
money of the machinery, which stated that the express condition of the
delivery of the machinery was that the title to it did not pass from V.
until the purchase-money was paid in full. Held that the terms of the
written contract could not be varied by parol evidence.
The condition of the title to the machinery at and before the giving of the
mortgage was a conclusion of law to be drawn from the undisputed facts
of the case.
It was proper to direct the jury to find for the defendant.

THIS was an action of detinue brought November 8, 1886,

in the Circuit Court of Bullock County, Alabama, by E. Van
Winkle and W. W. Boyd, copartners as E. Van Winkle & Co.,
against Canty Crowell, to recover certain machinery belongi ng to and constituting a cotton-seed oil mill.
The plaintiffs being citizens of Georgia and the defendant a
citizen of Alabama, the suit was removed by the latter into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District
of Alabama. After its removal, and in November, 1887, the
latter court allowed Emanuel Lehman, Meyer Lehman, Joseph
Goeter, and John W. Durr, composing the firm of Lehman,

