OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

court within such jurisdiction.

Taylor v. Bowker, 111 U. S.

110; Webster v. Clark, 25 Maine, 313; Parishv. Lewis, Freeman's Oh. 299; Brinkerhof v. Brown, 4 Johns. Ch. 671;
Dunlevy v. Tallmadge, 32 N. Y. 457; Terry v. Anderson, 95
U. S.628; Smitkh v. Railroad Co., 99 IT. S. 398, 401; "Wawkins v. Glenm, 131 U. S. 319, 334; XfLure v. Benini, 2 Ired.
Eq. 513, 519; Farned v: Harris, 11 Sm. & Marsh. 366, 371,
372; Patterson v. Zynde 112 Illinois, 196.
.DecreeaJ/brted.

ROYER v. COUPE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE U'IITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Wo. 82. Argued December 7, 8, 1892. -Decided

December 19, 1892.

'The

claim of letters patent. No. 149,954, granted April 21, 1874, to Herman
Royer, for an "improvement in the modes of preparing rawhide for
belting," namely, "The treatment of the prepared rawhide in the
manner and for the purposes set forth," is a claim to the entire process
described, consisting of eight steps, including the removal of the hair
by sweating.
Having put in a claim, in the course of his application, to the mode of preparing raw-hides by the fulling operation and the preserving mixture,
and that claim .having been rejected, and then withdrawn; and having
also claimed the prepared rawhide as a new article of manufacture, and
that claim having been rejected, and then struck out by him; his patent
cannot be construed as if it still contained such claims.
As the defendants did not use the sweating process they did not infringe.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. X. A. Iheaton for appellant.
_HMr. Wilmartk l. Thurston for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought-in the Circuit C ourt of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, by Herman

ROYER v. COUPE.
Opinioh of the Court.

.Royer against William Coupe aud Edwin A. Burgess, copartners under the name of William Coupe & Co., founded on
the infringement of letters patent No. 149,954, granted April
21, 1874, to the plaintiff as inventQr, for an "improvement in
the modes of preparing rawhide for belting," on an application
filed Decemb'er 31, 1872.
The specification of the patent is as follows: "After the
removal of the hair from the hide by means of sweating -a
process familiar to every tanner -the hide is dried perfectly
hard. Then it is inserted in water for ten to fifteen minutes,
long enough to lose its extreme stiffness. In this condition
the process of fulling is commenced. This may be done in a
machine constructed for this purpose and patented by me
May 12, 1868, under No. 77,920. Before the hide is passed
into the machine the second time it is stuffed with a mixture
twenty parts tallow, two parts wood tar and one part resin.
About two pounds of this mixture is put on a steer hide in a
warm liquid state with a brush. After the hide leaves the
machine the second time, it is ready for the next operation.
It is then moistened with water four or five times during the
day. The next day it is stretched and cut into pieces suitable
for belting. For purposes of lacing the thinnest hides are
selected, and after they have gone through the same mode of
treatment as hides for belting, they are shaved, oiled and hung
up to get perfectly dry, when the hide is cut into strings. In
order to more fully understand my mode of preparing hides, I
avoid the use of line, acid or alkali, for just to the amount a
hide is impregnated with such substances it suffers in its
tensile strength and toughness;. a slow but constant, dissolution
is going on with hides so impregnated. If the effects of the
aforesaid substances are in some way neutralized, which must
be.a chemical one, the hide suffers again in this process. The
power to resist abrasion, and the extreme tensile strength for
which pure rawhide is noted, are irreparably lost. [I am
aware that hides and skins have been prepared by a fulling or
bending operation to render thei pliable, but this mode alone
does not answer for the preparation of machine belts and
lacing. It is necessary to make use of a preparation substan-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

tially such as before described to render the rawhide fit for
use and durable.] The tallow has the effect of imparting a
high degree of elasticity and keeps the moisture. The wood
tar prevents dogs, cats, mice, vermin, etc., from attacking the
hide, at the same time causing the tallow to enter the hide
quickly and thoroughly. The resin gives the belting a certain
solidity and glossy appearance, and assists also in preventing
animals and vermin from attacking the belting. Belts and
lacing made of such prepared hide are in all respects stronger,
more lasting and cheaper than those made from common
leather."
The clainA is as follows: "The 'treatment of the prepared
rawhide in the manner and for the purposes set forth."
The bill of complaint is in the usual form. The answer sets
up want of novelty and non-infringement. It also avers that
the process set forth in the patent is composed of a series of
steps, consisting of (1).the removal of the hair from the hide
by means of sweating; (2) drying thie hide perfectly hard;
(3) then softening the hide slightly by soaking in water; (4)
fulling the hide; (5) stuffing the hide with twenty parts of
tallow, two parts of wood tar, and one part of resin ; (6) fulling the hide a second time; (7) repeated moistenings with
water; afld (8) stretching and cutting into belting. It avers
that the supposed importance of the plaintiff's alleged invention is the avoidance of the use of lime, acid or alkali in the
treatment of the hides, and the consequent avoidance of
the use of any chemical agents to neutralize the action of such
lime, acid or alkali; that the process employed by the defend:ants is -substantially different from that of the patent; that
the process of removing hair by sweating the hide was known
and practised long before the supposed invention of the plaintiff; that th6'process of fuilng hides is indispensable, and has
been practised ever since the art of tanning and curing hides
wa5 known; that the process of stuffing hides with tallow
and greasy substances, and with various admixtures of resinous
substances, tallow-and other materials, had been known from
the earliest days of the .art of manufacturing leather; and
that a patent was granted to the defendant William Coupe,

ROYER v. COUPE.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 182,106, September 12, 1876, for an improvement in
processes for the manufacture of rawhide, under which the
defendants carry on their manufacture, and make a different
product from that produced by the process of the plaintiff's
patent. Issue was joined, proofs were taken, and the Circuit
Court entered a decree in March, 1889, dismissing the bill,
with costs. The plaintiff has appealed to this court.
The opinion of the Circuit Court is reported in 38 Fed. Rep.
113. It held that the process of the patent consisted of the
series of eight steps above set forth in the answer. It considered the questions whether the claim was intended to cover
all, or only a part, of the eight successive steps; and whether
it meant the method of preparing rawhide in the manner set
forth, or whether the words in the claim, "prepared rawhide," signified a hide which had been subjected to one or
more of -the eight steps, and the claim was limited to the
subsequent steps of the process. The court went on to say
that that inquiry was important because, if the claim covered
all of the eight steps, the defendants did not infringe it, for
the reason that they did not use the first step of the process,
namely, the removal of the hair from the hide by means of
sweating, they making use, for that purpose, of the liming
process, which the plaintiff stated in his specification must be
avoided. The court held that the claim covered, and was
intended to cover, the ',whole treatment described by the'plaintiff, and not a part of that treatment; that the claim meant
the same as if it read "the methoq of preparing rawhide in
the manner set forth;" and that the words "prepared rawhide" meant the finished, product, and not the hides subjected
to one or more of the steps of the process described. The
court then referred to the contents of the file-wrapper of the
case in the Patent Office,.as throwing light upon the real scope
of the patent.
The specification, as originally filed, contained, in its descriptive part, substantially the same description as the patent
when issued; but the claim originally made was in these words:
"The use of a mixture of wood tar, resin and tallow, applied
to hides made into leather by a mechanical process,. substan-

OCTOBER TERM , 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

tially as and for the purpose herein set forth." The applica"tion was rejected January 4, 1873, on the ground that the
conibination of ingredients set forth, that is, wood tar, resin
and tallow, had been applied to leatber for similar purposes,
as shown in a patent and a rejected application referred to.
On June 10, 1873, the specification was amended by inserting
the two sentences which are contained in brackets in the
'specification as hereinbefore set forth, the claim was erased,
'and the following two claims were inserted in its place: "First.
The mode herein specified of preparing rawhides for machine
belts, lacing or ropes by the fulling or bending operation and
the preserving mixture, substantially as set forth. Second. A
belt or rope of rawhide prepared in the manner and with the
materials specified, as a new article of manufacture." The
application was again rejected, June 16, 1873, in a communication from the Patent Office, which stated that the only
feature of novelty presented which was not embraced in a
patent granted May 1, 1868, to Herman IRoyer and Louis
IRoyer, No. '77,920, for an improved machine for treating hides
was the addition to the compound, of tar and resin, as ingredients for preserving leather; and reference was made to another prior patent, granted to another person, as embracing
such ingredients; and it was stated that the use of the compound claimed by the plaintiff in the manufacturing process
would not leave a distinguishable feature in the article when
.placed upon the market.
The patent of May 12, 1868, thus referred to, is the same
patent of that date mentioned in the specification of the
patent now in suit. The specification of No. 77,920 says:
"The nature of our invention is to provide an improved
.machine for converting rawhides into leather, of that class
which, is tised for belting, Jacings and other purposes where
it is necessary tb preserve the native strength -,wnl toughness
. without destroying or -impairing the natural fibres or grain
of the leather. In order to 'accomplish our object, we employ
a machine mounted on a suitable frame, having a vertical
-slotted shaft, to which is attached, at its base, a bevelled
wheel between two bevelled pinions upon a horizontal shaft.

ROYER V. COUPE.
Opnoii of the Court.'

Around the vertical shaft is placed a row of vertical pins or
rollers, held in place by upper and lower rings, one of which
is firmly bolted to the frame. An iron weight or press Is
employed for crowding the coil of hide down after it has
received the forward and back action around the shaft." The
specification describes the operation of the machine as being,
that the end of the rawhide, after it has been deprived of
the hair, is introduced into a slot in the vertical shaft, and
set-screws are turned against it, when motion is imparted to
the machine, and the hide is wound tightly around the shaft;
that, when this is accomplished, and sufficient time has elapsed,
the shaft is slowly reversed by throwing a second bevelled
pinion into gear, when the hide commences to uncoil or double
back from the shaft, which, with the folding back and pressing
against vertical pins or rollers, produces the desired result of
stretching in one way, and compressing, corrugating or
roughing in the opposite direction. The specification further
says: "The hide so operated upon is then treated with oil
and tallow in the usual way." The process of the machine
of patent No. 77,920 is called in the specification of No. 149,954,
"the process of fulling."
In a communication from Royer's attorney to the Patent
Office, of October 9, 1873, it is stated that the material prepared according to the plan of Royer, set forth in his application' for No. 149,954, is a superior article; that the use of
tallow and tar upon leather was old, but rawhide fulled was
not leather; and that the materials named acted with the
rawhide very differently from what they did with leather.
The same communicatibn erased the second claim introduced
June 10, 1873, namely, "Second. A belt or rope of rawhide
prepared in the manner and with the materials specified, as
a new articl6 of manufacture." In response to that letter,
the Patent Office, on October 17, 1873, informed IRoyer, that,
independently of the process set forth in patent No. 77,920,
"for which protection has already been granted," a claim for
the treatment of rawhide in the manner described in the
specification then pending might receive favorable consideration, and that the body of the specification should be amended
VOL.

CXLVI-8:

OCTOBER TERMA,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

with the view of presenting a claim of the character referred
to. On the 29th of October, 1873, Royer amended his specification in certain particulars, erased the remaining claim and
inserted the claim contained in the patent as issued. On the
12th of November, 1873, in compliance with the suggestion
of the Pate-t Office, Royer further amended his specification,
and the patent was issued, the final fee not having been paid
until April 16, 1874.
The opinion of the Circuit Court states, that on June 10,
1873, as appeared by the file-wrapper and. contents, the plaintiff sought to limit his claim to a method of preparing rawhide
for belting by the fulling and bending operation and the preserving mixture; that that claim was rejected, and he acquiesced in the decision ; that the Patent Office intimated that a
claim for the treatment of rawhide in the mode described in
his patent might be allowed; that the plaintiff accordingly
amended his specification and claim in conformity with that
suggestion, and the patent was consequently granted; that in
view of the prior state of the art, the plaintiff was not entitled
to a broad claim for a process which should embrace only the
fulling and bending operation and the preserving mixture
composed of tallow, tar and resin, for both of these things,
as applied to converting hides into leather, were old; that it
followed that the only subject-matter of invention which the
plaintiff could properly claim was the whole process described
inthis patent, comprising the different steps therein set forth;
that the most that could be said of the plaintiff's patent was
'that it was for an improved process,; that, in that view, it
must be shown that the defendants used all the different steps
of that process, or there could be no infringement; that the
defendants did not use the sweating process, which was the
first step in the plaintiff's-treatment, and therefore did not
"infringe; that the patent had been construed by Judge Drummond, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northem District of Illinois, in Boyer v. Chicago .2an~ifacturing
Co., 20 Fed. Rep. 853' in which it Was said: "If this is a valid
patent for a process, it must be linited to the precise, or cer-

tainly, substantial, description which has been given in the

ROYER v. COUPE.
Opinion of the Court.

specifications; and, in order to constitute an infringement of
that process a person must be shown to have followed substantially the same process, the same mode of reaching the
result as is described in the specifications;" that the court
agreed with that conclusion; that if the contention of the
counsel for the plaintiff were correct, that the plaintiff had
invented an entirely new process, which had revolutionized
the art of preparing rawhide for belting and other purposes,
it might be that the court ought to give that broad construction to the patent which wasjustified in the case of a foundation patent; but that when, as in this case, all the substantial
steps in the process were old, the utmost that the plaintiff was
entitled to was protection against those who used, in substance, his precise process.
We are of opinion that the views set forth by the Circuit
Court are sound, and that the decree must be affirmed. The
words in the claim, "prepared rawhide," refer to the completed article as prepared for final use by the treatment set
forth in the specification; and the claim is one for the treatment or process by which rawhide is put into the condition
resulting from the treatment it receives by the entire process
applied to it. After the hair is removed from the-hide by the
process of sweating, and it has afterwards lost its stiffness by
being inserted in water, it is subjected to "the process of fulling," with a mixture of tallow, wood tar and resin applied to
it. The specification states, in substance, that Igoyer's mode
of "preparing hides" comprehends, as a part of such mode,
the sweating of the hides, because the specification states that
in such mode of "preparing hides" he avoids "the use of lime,
acid or alkali." Therefore, the sweating must necessarily be
included as a part of the preparation "of the prepared rawhide" mentioned in the claim, and therefore is a part of "the
treatment" claimed.
The plainitiff contends that the treatment covered by the
claim consists only in subjecting rawhide to a fulling process,
and, at the same time, by the same mechanical action, working into it the stuffing composed of tar, resin and tallow, and
that he was the first to manufacture rawhides into a new
article of commerce, called "fulled rawhide."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

If the plaintiff did make such an invention, and was
entitled to claim' a patent for it, he has failed to secure such a
patent. On Tuie 10, 1873, he put in a claim to the mode of
preparing rawhides by the fulling operation and the preserving mixture. That claim was rejected by the Patent Office,
and he withdrew it on October 29, 1873. Nor can he, under
the present patent, claim as a new article of manufacture the
rawhide thug prepared; for he made that clihm on June, 10,
1873, it was rejected, and he struck it out on October 9, 1873.
It is well settled, by numerous cases in this court, that under
such circumstances a patentee cannot successfully contend that
his patent shall be construed as if it still contained the claims
which were so rejected and withdrawn. Roemer v. Peddie,
132 U. S. 313, 317, and cases there cited. The principle thus
laid down is, that where a patentee, on the rejection of his
application, inserts in his specification, in consequence, limitations and restrictions for the purpose of obtaining his patent,
he cannot, after he has obtained it, claim that it shall be construed as it would have been construed if such limitations Snd
restrictions were not contained in it. See, also, Phenix Caster Co. v. 8%iogel, 130 U. S. 360, 368; Yale .ock Co. v. Berkshire Bank, 135 U. S. 342, 379; Doson v. Lees, 1: 7 U. S. 258,
265.
The present patent was under consideration in Royer v.
Schultz Belting Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 158, in October, 1889, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Missouri, where Judge Thayer took the same view of it that
was taken by Judge Colt in the present case, and held that,
the claim ot the patent did not cover broadly the method of
making belting-leather by stuffing the rawhide by means of a
fulling machine, with a mixture composed of tallow, wood tar
and resin, and that, as the defendants in that case did not use
the sweating process, but used the liming process, they did not
infringe. Judge Thayer gave much force to the proceedings
in the Patent Office, as showing that Royer modified his claim,
which was so worded as to cover the stuffing process with the
preserving mixture, and put his claim into its present form,
solely in view of a communication from the Patent Office to

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the effect that the whole method describe. by hin of making
belting-leather out of green hides might be patentable, thus
indicating the extent of the monopoly intended to be granted.
As the defendants in the present case do not use theosweating process,* but use the liming process, it follows, under the
proper construction of the claim of the patent, that they do
Decree aftimed.
not infringe.

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 42.

Argued November 14,15,1892. -Decided

December 19,1892.

The writ of error in this case is dismissed because it does not appear that
the jurisdictional amount is involved.

THIS was a proceeding by the United States to compel the
defendant to abate a wire fence, by which he was alleged to
have inclosed a large tract of public lands, belonging to the
United States, and subject to entry as agricultural lands, in
violation'of the act of February 25, 1885, 23 Stat. 321, c. 149,
to prevent the unlawful occupancy of public lands. Thew first
section of the act reads as follows: "All inclosures of- any
public lands in any State or Territory of the United States,
heretofore or to be hereafter made, erected or con'structed by
any person, . . . to any of which land included within
the inclosure the person . . . making or controlling
the inclosure had no claim or color of title made or acquired
in good faith, or an asserted right thereto by or under claim,
made in good faith, with a view to entry thereof at the proper
land office under the general laws of the United States at the
time any such inclosure was or shall be made, are hereby declared to- be unlawful, and the maintenance, 'erection, construction or control of any such inclosure is hereby forbidden
and prohibited; and the assertion of a right to the exclusive,
use or occupancy of any part of the public lands of the United

