BRINKERHOFF v. ALOE.
Statement of the Case.

BRINKERHOFF v. ALOE.
APPEAL FROM THE

QIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 85. Argued December 9, 1892. -Decided

December 12,1892.

Letters patent No. 224,991, granted to Alexander W. Brinkerhoff, March 2,
1880, for an improvement in rectal specula are void for want of novelty
in the invention protected by them.

Tins was a bill to restrain the infringement of letters patent
No. 224,991, granted to Alexander W. Brinkerhoff under date
of 'March 2, 1880, for an improvement in "rectal specula."
The claims made in the specification were as follows:
"1. A slide in the side of a speculum extending through
its whole length, and used substantially as herein described.
"2. The incline in the front end of the chamber, in combination with the tube, slot and slide, substantially as and for
the purposes herein set forth.
"3. In cylindrical tubular specula having a slotted side
and closed end to prevent the entrance of fmces, the incline
in the front end of the chamber extending upward from the
bottom and forward to under side of slide, substantially as
described, and for the purposes herein set forth."
The court below in its opinion in the record said:
"1. It is clear that the first claim of this patent, covering
'a slide in the side of a speculum, extending its whole length,'
cannot be sustained. Indeed it is not seriously contended by
complainant's counsel that the device covered by that clain
is novel."
"Hilton's rectal speculum, an instrument said to have been
in use in England as early as 1870, also clearly anticipates
the first claim of complainant's patent, and probably the
second and third claims. If Hilton's speculum, as contended,
was described in a printed publication in England as early
as 1876, that fact also invalidates the first claim of the patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

under consideration, and most likely the second and third
claims."
"2. The third claim of the patent is a claim for the ' incline'
in cylindrical tubular specula having a slotted side and closed
end.
"The particular device attempted to be covered by this
claim was anticipated, in my opinion, by a rectal speculum
produced by Dr. Mudd and shown, to the satisfaction of the
court, to have been purchased at an instrument store, and to
have been in use in this country before the date of complainant's invention."
"But, regardless of the obvious nature of the improvement
made by adding the incline, the court is of the opinion that
the combination so formed was not patentable, because no
new result or effect was produced by the united action of the
old elements.
"To sustain a patent on a combination of old devices it is
well settled that a new result must be obtained which is due
to the joint and coperating action of all the old elements.
Either this must be accomplished or a now machine of distinct character and function must be constructed. Pickering
v. McCullough, 104 U. S. 310; Ifailes v. Van Wormer, 20
Wall. 353; Tack Co. v. .fanufacturing Co., 9 Bissell, 258;
lfringing .Machine Co. v. Young, 14 Blatchford, 46.
"If several old devices are so put together as to produce
even a better machine or instrument than was formerly in
use, but each of the old devices does what it had formerly
done in the instrument or machine from which it was borrowed and in the old way, without uniting with other old
devices to perform any joint function, it seems that the combination is not patentable. IRailes v. 7"an 1 ormer, supra;
Reckendofer v. Faber,92 U. S. 347.
"In the present case the incline, when placed in combination
with the 'tube, slot and slide,' acted precisely as it did when
placed in the forward end of a slotted tube not provided with a
slide. Its action was in no sense modified by the new relation
in which it was placed, nor did it, in unison with the other elements of the combination, produce a distinctively new result."

NATIONAL TUBE WORKS CO. v. BALLOU.

517

Statement of the Case.

The bill was accordingly dismissed, and the plaintiffs
appealed from that decree.
.Mr. J. 6. Smith for appellants.
Mr. George If. EZnight for appellee.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: Having reached the same conclusions
as those expressed in the opinion of the Circuit Court, reported
in 37 Fed. Rep. 92, we direct the decree to be
Afflrmed.

NATIONAL TUBE WORKS COMPANY v. BALLOU.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 70. Argued December 2, 1892. -LfDecided December 19,1892.

A Massachusetts corporation brought a suit in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York, against a
citizen of New York, founded on a judgment obtained by it in a State
Court of Connecticut, and an execution issued there, and returned
unsatisfied, against a Connecticut corporation, to compel the defendant
to pay what he owed on his subscription to shares of stock in the Connecticut corporation, and have it applied towards paying the debts of
that corporation, including one due to the plaintiff: Held, that the bill
was defective in not alleging any judgment in New York against the
corporation, or any effort to obtain one, or that it was impossible to
obtain one.

THis was a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York, on
November 1, 1888, by the National Tube Works Company, a
Massachusetts corporation, against George William Ballou, a
citizen of New York.
The bill set forth that the Wiley Constructipn Company
was a corporation organized in February, 1880, under the
joint stock laws of Connecticut, and located in Hartford, in

