OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted October 19, 1886.-Decided 'November 15, 1886.
Bonds issued by alown in Illinois, signed by its supervisor and 'own clerk,
as a donation to a railroad company, stated that the faith, credit, and
property of the town were thereby pledged, "under authority of" an Act
of the General Assembly of the State, giving its title and date, and each
.bond also stated that it and other bonds, giving their numbers and
amounts, were "the only bonds issued by said town." "under and by virtue of said Act." The Act prescribed the general route of the road, and
authorized the town to make a donation to the company, to aid in constructing and equipping the road, if the donation should be voted for as
prescribed. It provided for a written application by voters to the town
clerk to have an election held, and the giving by him of notice of the
election; that the election should "be held and conducted and return
therepf made as is provided by law;" and that, if a majority of the legal
voters voting should vote for the donation, the town should, "by its
proper corporate authorities," make the donation, as should "be determined at said election," And should issue to the company its bonds,,
"signed by the supervisor and countersigned by the clerk," and should,
"by its proper corporate authority," levy an annual tax to pay interest
and principaL The application was made, and the notice given, and the
election was field and pre iged over, not by-the election judges of the
town, but by a moderator and the town clerk, in the manner required
for the election of town offlcdrs, and resulted in a majority for the donation. The terms of the v6te were that the bonds should not be issued,
and the vote -should be void, unless the road was, completed by a day
specified. The. road was not completed by that day. The supervisor
and one of the two justices of the town having resi;nedrthe other justice and the town clerk, on the day before an election for a justice was
to be held, appointed a new supervisor, ante-dating the appointment
papers more than three months, to the day after the supervisor resigned,
and the new supervisor, and the town clerk, on the same day, signed the
bonds 'nd delivered them to the company. The next day a new justice
and a new supiervisor were elected by the people. In a suit against the
town, to recover on coupons cut from the bonds, by a bona fide holder of
the bonds and coupons for a valuable consideration, without notice, it
was set up in defence, that the officers of the company conspirea with
the justice and the town clerk, and their appointee, to have the bonds
issued before a new supervisor should be elected by the people: Held,

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Statement of Facts.
(1) The bonds were not void, as having been executed through "fraud or
circumvention," under the statute of Illinois, Gross' Stat., 1869, voL 1,
3d ed., c. 73, p: 462, § 11.
(2) The appointment of the supervisor was valid.
(3) The bonds were issued in compliance with-a vote of the people held
prior to the adoption of the Illinois Constitution of 1870, in pursuance
of a law providing therefor, within the meaning of section 12, of
article 9, 6f that Constitution, although the condition as to the completion of the road was not complied with, because, as against the
plaintiff, the recitals in the bonds were made by officers entrusted
under the statute, with the duty of determining whether the condition had been complied with, and the town was thereby estopped from
asserting the contrary.
(4) The election was properly held, though presided over by a moderator.
and the donation was, therefore, authorized under existing laws, by
a vote prior to the adoption of additional section or article 2 to the
Constitution of Illinois, within the meaning of that section.

This was an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, by Eliza
Jennings, a gainst the town of Oregon, a municipal corporation
in the county of Ogle, and State of Illinois, to recover $13,510,
the amount payable by 193 coupons of $70 each, cut from 24
bonds for $1000 each, purporting to have been issued by that
town. The following is a copy of one of the bonds, all 'being
alike except as to the number, and the time when due:
"UTrED STAiTS OF A IEI A.

No. 29.

State of PZinois, Ounty of Ogle.
$1000.
OrEGo TowN BoND.
Know all men by these presents, tbat. the town of Oregon,
in the county of Ogle, and State of Illinois, is indebted to the
Ogle and Carroll County Railroad Company in the full and
lust sum -of one thousand dollars, which sum of money said
town agrees and promises to pay on or before the first day of
July, 1883, to the said'Ogle and Carroll County Railroad Conipany, or bearer, with interest at the rate of seven per cent. per
annum, payable annually, on the first day of July, at the office
of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York, in
the City of New York, upon the delivery of the coupons severally hereto annexed, for which payment of, principal and

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of ]Facts.

interest, well and truly to be made, the faith, credit, and property of said town of Oregon are hereby solemnly pledged, under
authority of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of
Illinois, entitled 'An Act to amend an Act entitled An Act to
incorporate the Ogle and Carroll County Railroad Company,'
which said Act was approved March 30, 1869.
This bond is one of a series, numbering from 21 to 60, inclusive, for $1000 each, which bonds, so numbered, together with
another series numbered from I to 20, inclusive, for $500 each,
axe the only bonds issued by said town of Oregon under and
by virtue of said. Act.
In witness whereof, the supervisor and town clerk of the
said town of Oregon have hereunto set their hands, this thirty
first day of December, A.D. 1870.
FmD. H. M&sn, Towrn Clerk. E. S. Po=rr , AS
upervisof."
The date in each bond, "thirty first day of December, A.D.,
1870," is lithographed, like the body of the bond.
On the back of each bond is the following certificate:
";AUDITOR'S OFFICE, Illinois,
SplNzGFIELD, Tune 5, 1871.
I, Charles E. ippincott, Auditor of Public Accounts of the
State of Illinois, do hereby certify that the within bond has
been registered in this office this dgy, pursuant to the provisions of an Act entitled IAn Act to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities and towns,'
in force April 16, 1869.
In testimony whereof, -I have hereunto subscribed my name,
and affixed the seal of my office the day aid year aforesaid.
[SEAL.]

C. E. Lmrpmcorr, Auditor, P. A."

The coupons are in the following form, varying as to number
of bond and date of payment:
"State of Illinois, County of Ogle. The Town- of Oregon
will pay to the Ogle and Carroll County Railroad Company,
or bearer, Seventy Dollars at the office of the Farmers' Loai

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Statement of Facts.

& Trust Company of New York, in the City of New York, on
the first day of July, 1873, on presentation, being one year's
interest on bond No. 29.
F. H. R&IsH, clerk.
E. S. PoTmiz, Supervisor."
The action was tried by a jury, which, under the instruction
of the court to do so, found a verdict for the plaintiff, for
$20,823.68, and a judgment in her favor was rendered for that
amount, with costs. The defendant sued out a writ of error.
On the 30th of Mfarch, 1869, the Legislature of Illinois
passed an Act, Private Laws of Illinois, of 1869, vol. 3, p. 32A,
with the title set forth in the bonds, and providing as follows:
1. Be it enacted by *the People of the State of
Illhnwis, 'representedim the General Assembly, That the several
Acts entitled ' An Act to incorporate the Ogle and Carroll
County Railroad Company,' approved February 18, 1857, and
the Act entitled ' An Act to amend an Act entitled An Act
to incorporate the 'Ogle and Carroll County Railroad Company,' approved February 24, 1859, be and they are hereby-s6
amended that the said railroad company shall be authorized
and empowered to construct, maintain, and operate their said
railroad, with such appendages as may be deemed necessary
by the directors, in accordance with the following provisions.
§ 2. That the first division of said road shall commence on
the east bank of Rock River, opposite the town of Oregon, in
said county of Ogle; from thence, on the most -eligible route,
to a connection with the Chicago and Northwestein'Railway,
or with any other railroad leading to the City of Chicago, and
the second division commencing at said point, opposite the
said town of Oregon, and running thence, in a westerly direction, on the most eligible route, to the IMississippi River."
"§ 5. That the several towns, villages, and cities, organized
or incorporated under any laws of this State,, along or near the
route of said railroad, as authorized to be constructed under
the original Act and amendment thereto or under this Act, or
that are in anywise interested in having said road or any
branch or division thereof constructed, may, in their corporate
capacities, subscribe to the stock of said company, or may
"SEcTIoN

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

make donations thereto, or may lend its or their credit to said
company, to aid in constructing and equipping said road, or
any division or branch thereof : Provided,That no such subscription, donation, or loan shall be made until the same shall
be voted for as hereinafter provided.
§ 6. That whenever twenty legal voters of any such towns,
villages, or city shall present to the clerk thereof a written
application, requesting that an election shall be held to determine whether such town, village, or city shall subscribe to the
capital stock of said company, or make a donation thereto, or
loan money or bonds or its credit, to aid in the construction
of said road, or any branch or division thereof, stating the
amount and whether subscribed, donated, or loaned, and the
rate of interest, and the time of payment, such clerk shall
receive and file such application, and immediately proceed to
post written notices of an election to be held by the legal
voters of such town, village, or city, which notices shall be
posted in ten of the most public places in such town, village,
or city, for thirty days preceding such election, and shall state
fully the object of such election; and such election shall be
held and conducted and return thereof made as is provided by
law, and, in any village or city, as is provided by the law
under which the same is incorporated, and an additional return
shall be made to one of the directors of said company. Each
elector at such election shall deposit a ballot for said subscription, donation, or loan; and if a majority of the legal voters
of such town, village, or city, voting at such election, shall
vote for such subscription, donation, or loan, then such town,
village, or city shall, by its proper corporate authorities, subscribe to the stock of said company, or donate or loan thereto,
as shall be determined at said election, and shall issue to the
said railroad company its bonds, in such denominations as said
comppny may designate, not less than one hundred dollars,
and bearing 'interest as may be deternminedl at such election,
not to exceed ten per cent. per annum, payable annually at
such place as such company may designate, which bonds shall
be signed by the supervisor and countersigned by the clerk in
towns organized under the township organization law, and

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Statement of Facts.

in incorporated villages or cities, signed by the president of
the board of trustees and countersigned by the clrk or by the
officers having similar .powers and duties in any such village
or city, and any. such town, village, or city so subscribing
donating, or loaning, as af6resaid, shall by its proper corporate
authority, annually thereafter, assess and levy a tax upon the
taxable property of said town, village, or city, sufficient to
pay and liquidate the annually accruing interest on such bonds,
and so much of the principal thereof as, from time to time,
shall, become due, which taxes shall be levied and collected in
the same manner as other corporation taxes in such town, village, or city: Provided,That for'the payiment of the principal
thereof such tax shall not exceed two per cent. per annum."
The town of Oregon -was and is an incorporated town or
township situated on both sides, east and west, of Rock River,
and embracing within its limits a village called Oregon, on the
west bank of the river, which village was and is what is called
"the town of Oregon" in the second section of the above Act.
The town 'vas such-a town as is described in the fifth section
of the Act.
On "the 24th of May, 1870, more than twenty legal voters
of the town presented to the clerk of the town the following
written application, signed by them, in conformity with section six of the Act:
"To the Town Clerk of the Town of Oregon, in the County of
Ogle, and &ale of IDl>dois:
The undersigned, legal voters of the said town of Oregon,
in the county and State aforesaid, do hereby make applicatiopL
to you, and request that an election shall be held in said town,
under the provisions of an Act of the General Assembly of the
State of Illinois, entitled 'An Act to amend an g&ct entitled
An Act to incorporate the Ogle ind Oarroll County Railroad
Company,' approved March 30th, A.D. 1869, to determine
whether said town shall, in its corporate Iapacity, make a
donation to the said Ogle and Carroll County Railroad Cbmpany of the sum of forty'thowsand dollars in the bonds of said
town, in such denominations as said company may designate,'

OCTOBER TERM,- 1886.
Statement of Facts.

not less than one hundred dollars each, payable, at the option
of said town, within twenty years from the date of their issue,
bearing interest from date at the rate of seven per cent. per
annum, payable annually, and principal and interest payable
at such place as said company may designate, to aid in the
construction of the first division of said Ogle and Carroll
County Railroad; said bonds not to be issued, dated or delivered until said company shall have completed said first division
of said railroad, with a T rail weighing not less than forty five
pounds to the yard, in condition to run trains thereon from a
connection or intersection with the Chicago and Northwesterm
Raihay to a point at and within said town of Oregon, within
one half-mile of the east bank of Rock River, and shall have
eqilipped the same with rolling-stock sufficient to operate at
daily train to and from said town for the accommodation of
passengers and freight, nor until said company shall have
released said town from all liabilities on account of donations
heretofore voted, except a donation of ten thousand dollars
voted by said town on the ninth day of December, A.D. 1869,
said vote and donation of forty thousand dollars to be null
and void unless said first division of said railroad shall be com.pleted and equipped as aforesaid on or before the first day of
January, A.D. 1871 ;'but in case the same shall bo so completed
and equipped within the time aforesaid, and said company
shall execute -nd deliver said release, then the said, bonds
to be deliverable upon the demand of said company, and to
bear date of the day of delivery.
And we request that immediate notice be given of such
election, and that the same be held on the 23d day of June,
A.D. 1870.

Dated this 24th day of May, A.D. 1870."
The clerk received and filed the application, and gave the
noiice reqnirod by section' six of the Act; of an election to be
held June 23d, 1870, the notice being- as follows:
"Election .Yotice.

Whereas more than twenty legal voters of the town of
Oregon, in the county of Ogle, and State of Illinois, have

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Statement of Facts.

presented' to me, clerk of said town, a writien application
requesting that an election be held in said town under the
provisions of an act. of the General Assembly of the State of
Illinois, entitled 'An Act to amend an Act entitled Ani Act to
incorporate the Ogle and Carroll Railroad Company,' approved March 30th, 1869, to determine whether said town shall,
in its corporate capacity, make a donation to the said Ogle
and Carroll County Railroad Company, of the sum of forty
thousand dollars in the bonds of said town, in such denomna-.
tions as said company may designate, not less than one
hundred dollars each, payable at the option of .said tiwn,
within twenty years from the date of issue, bearing interest
from date at the rate of seven per cent. per annum, payable
annually, and principal and interest payable.at such place as
said company may designate, to aid in the construction of the
first division of said Ogle and Carroll County Railroad, said
bonds not to be issued, dated or delivered until said company
shall have completed said first division of said railroad, with a
T rail weighing not less than forty five pounds to the yard, in
condition, to run trains thereon from a connection or intersection with the -Chicago and Northwestern Railway, to a
point at and within said town of Oregon, within one half mile
of the east bank of Rock River, and shall have equipped the
same with rolling .stock sufficient to operate a daily train to
and from said town for the accommnodation of passengers and
freight, nor until said company shall have released said town
from all*liability-on account of donations heretofore voted,
ekcepta donation of ten thousand dollars voted by said town
on the ninth day of December, A.D. 1869, said vote of forty
thousand dollars to be null and void unless said first division
of said railroad shall be completed and-equipped as aforesaid,
on or before the first day of January, A.D. 1871, but in case
the same shall be so completed and equipped within the time
aforesaid, and said company shall execute alid deliver said
release, then the said bonds to be deli erable upon demand of
said company, and to bear date .of the' day of delivery.
The inhabitants, legal voters of the said town of Oregon,
are therefore hereby notified that an election will be held by
VOL. CXIX-6

OCTOBER TERM, .1886.
Statement of Facts.

the legal voters of said town, at the court house in said town
of Oregon, on Thursday, the 23d day of June, A.D. 1870, at
9 o'clock in the forenoon of said day, for the object and purpose of voting upon and determining the matters and questions hereinbefore and in said written application set forth and
contained.
Given under my hand, at my office in said town of Oregon,
this 24th day of May, A.D. 1870.
F. H. VLPsn, Town Clerk of said Town."
The election was held on the day, in the manner and with
the result stated in the following record on file in the office of
the town clerk: '
"Pursuant to notice given according to law, the voters of
the town of Oregon, county of Ogle, and State of Illinois,
assembled at the court house in Oregon, at 9 o'clock A.M., on
Thursday, the 23d day of June, A.D. 1870. The meeting
was called to order by the town clerk, and, on motion of W.
.J. Mix, E. J. Reiman was chosen moderator of said meeting,
and was duly sworn by the town clerk. Proclamatiol was
then made of the opening of the polls, which were kept open
until 12 o'clock m, when, on motion of 0. Wilson, they were
closed for one hour, until one o'clock, for dinner, by proclamation of the town clerk. At one o'clock the polls were
again proclaimed 'open, and were kept open until six o'clock
V.M., proclamation being made half hour before the closing of
the polls. At the hour of six P.m. the moderator proceeded
to count out the ballots, until they were all counted, which
number equalled the numbers on the poll-list. The ballots
were then read by the moderator, and resulted as follows:
there being for donation, as stated in the notice, one hundred
and sixty three votes; against donation, as stated in the
notice, twelve votes. The result being publicly read, the
meeting was then closed.
E. J. RmmN, Moderator.
Attest:.F. H. MAasi, Town Clerk."

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Statement of Facts.

A defence set up to the validity of the bonds, in the
amended second plea, is, that their execution was obtained
by fraud and circumvention. This is founded on the following facts: The first division of the road was-not completed or
equipped in accordance with the application, and the notice of
election, and the vote, on or before the 1st of January, 1871,
but was completed by the 1st of April, 1871. On the 30th-of
December, 1870, Mortimer W. Smith, supervisor of the town,
gave to the town clerk of the town his written resignation of
the office of supervisor, and it was placed among the records
of the town clerk's office. He never afterwards acted as
supervisor. The town had by law one supervisor and two
justices of the peace and one town clerk. They were all ofthem, by statute, town officers. William Schultz was elected
one of the justices of the town April 5th, 1870, and duly
qualified as such April 9th, 1870. He continued to reside in,
the town until after April d,871, and during the year 1871,
but was absent from the town, and in the city of New York,
from December 26th, 1870, till about January 6th, 1871. He
resigned his-office on March 2d, 1871, by filing his resignation
in the office of the clerk of the county, who entered it of
recoid according to law. After that he did not act as a justice. A successor to Schultz as a justice was elected by the
people at the annual town meeting held-April 4th, 1871, and
not before, and such successor qualified April 8th, 1871, and
weis commissioned April 15th, 1871. Jam es H. Cartwright
was the other justice of the .peace. Frederick H. Marsh was
the town clerk.
The following statutory provisions were in force in Illinois
in 1870 and 1871: "1§ 16. Resignations of the office of justice
of the peace and constable shall be made to the clerk of the
court of the proper county, who shall immediately enter the
date of every such resignation in the book above provided
for;" (that is, a book to be kept by the clerk' of the county,
in which he was required to enter the name of every justice
of the peace and constable sworn into office, together with the
date of his commission or certificate, and the time of his being
sworn into office;) "which book, or a certified copy of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

entry in the same, shall be received in evidence in all Courts
within this State." Gross' Stat., 1869, vol. 1, 3d ed., c. 59,
p. 394. "1. Whenever any town shall fail to elect the proper
number of town officers, to which such town may be entitled
by law, or when any person elected to any town office shall
fail to qualify as such, or whenever any vacancy shall happen
in any town office from death, resignation, removal from the
town, or other cause, it shall be lawful for the justices of the
peace, of the town, together with the supervisor and town
clerk, to fill the vacancy or vacancies occasioned or occurring
in consequence of either or any of the causes above specified,
by appointment by warrant under their hands and seals; and
the persons so appointed shall hold their respective offices
during the unexpired term of the persons in whose stead they
have been appointed, and until others are chosen or appointed
in their places, and shall have the same powers and be subject
to the same duties and penalties as if they had been duly
chosen by the electors. 2. Whenever a vacancy shall occur,
from any cause, in any or either of the offices enumerated in
the foregoing section, as composing the board of appointment
lor the appointment of town officers, in case of vacancy, it
shall be lawful for the remaining officers of such appointing
board to fill any vacancy or vacancies thus occurring, except
in cases of vacancy in the office of justice of the peace, which
shall be filled only by election. 3. When any appointment
shall be made, as provided in the two preceding sections,-the
officers making the same shall cause the warrant of appointment to be forthwith filed in the office of the town clerk, who
shall forthwith give notice to each person appointed." Gross'
Stat., 1869, vol. 1, 3d ed., c. 103 d, dit. 7, pp. 750, 751.
On the 3d of April, 1871, Cartwright, (the remaining justice,)
and Marsh, (the town clerk,) met at the office of the town clerk,
and, by a paper then signed by each of them, appointed Elias
S. Potter to fill the vacancy in the office of supervisor, caused
by the resignation of Smith, and ordered the clerk to give the
certificate of appointment to Potter. The paper bore date
the 31st of December, 1870, and was filed in the office of the
town clerk on the 3d of April, 1871. On the same 3d of April,

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Argument for Plaintiff inError.

a proper official b6nd, executed on that day by Potter and twQ
sureties, but bearing date the 3ist of December, 1870, was filed
in the office of the town clerk, with an oath of office signed
and sworn to by Potter before Cartwright on the same 3d of
April, but purporting to have been subscribed and sworn to
on the 31st of December, 1870. On the same 3d of Apr.l,
Potter, as supervisor, and Marsh, as town clerk, signed the
bonds and tha coupons, and delivered them to the president of
the railroad company. One Dwight was elected supervisor of
the town, at the regular annual town meeting, held on April
Ith, 1871, and assumed the office April 10th, 1871, and held
it for the ensuing year. It was known to all parties that this
town meeting was to be held, and it is alleged that the officers
of the railroad company conspired with Cartwright and Marsh
to procure the appointment of Potter as supervisor, so that
the bonds might be issued before the election by the people
of a new supervisor on April 4th, 1871.
The statute of Illinois, as to fraud and circmnvention, set

up and relied on, is as follows: "11. If any fraud or circumvention be used, in obtaining the making or executing of any
of the instruments aforesaid," (that is, any note, bond, bill, or
other instrument in writing, for the payment of money or
property, or the performance of covenants or conditions,)
"such fraud or circumvention may be pleaded in bar to any
action to be brought on any such instrument so obtained,
whether such action be brought by the party committing such
fraud or circumvention, or any assignee or assignees of such
instrument." Gross' Stat., 1869, vol. 1, 3d ed., c. 73, V. 462.
3.. James K. EJdall for plaintiff in error.
I. Under Rev.'Stat. Ill. § 11, c. T3, the defence that the making
or executidn of an instrument was obtained by fraud is good
against a bona.fde holder for value, to whom it was transferred
before maturity without notice of the alleged fraud. It is
otherwise where the fraud relates solely to the consideration.
.H',5ard v. Rankin, 71 Ill. 129 ; Taylor v. Atchison, 54: Ill.
196 ; Vanbrunt v.S ingley, 85 Ill. 281 ; Rihards6n v. Schirtz,

86

'OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in E rror.

59 Ill 313; Easter v. rnaad,
i
26 Ill. 495; .Depuyv.*Schuyler,
45 Il. 306. Aside from the question of fraud Potter's appointment as supervisor was invalid, because Schultz was still
in office when it was made. and it appears affirmatively that
he was not present when the appointment was made, and took
no part in it. Crocker v. Crae,21 Wend. 211, 218 ; . 6. 34
Am. Dec. 228; Babcock v. Zamb, 1 Cowen, 238 ;' E p ark
Rogers, I Cowen, 526, and note; Louk v. Woods, 15 fll. 256,
262; jilliams v. Lunenburg School District, 21 Pick. 75 ;
8. C. 32 Am. Dec. 243; _Jfc Coy v. Curtice, 9 Wend. 17; S. C.
24 Am. Dee. 113. See AnthoAy v. Japer, 101 U. S. 693.
II. These bonds were issued in violation of § 12, Art. XI.,
of the Constitution of Illinois of 1870, which prohibits municipal corporations from creating indebtedness to exceed five per
cent. on the 'assessed value of the taxable property therein.
When they were issued, the town was already indebted beyond
that amount. There was no prior vote of the people, within
the saxing clause, and the adbption of the constitution deprived
the town of the power to issue them. Buchanan v. Litchield,
102 U. S. 278 ; School District v. Stone, 106 U. S. 183 ; Zithfield v. Ballou, 114 U. S. 190 ; Prince v. Quincy, 105 l. 138.
The question whether power exists in a municipality to issue
bonds may depend on extrinsic facts, not appearing on the
face of the law. The purchaser is bound to know whether the
power exists; _Yorthern Bank v. Porter Townsmip, 110 U. S.
608 ; Dixon County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83 ; Jlerhants'Bank
v. Bergen County, 115 U. S. 384; Daviess County v. Dickinson, 117 U. S. 657: but is protected against mere irregularity
in the execution of the power. See also Anthony v. Jasper
County, cited above; Pe,rple v. Dutcher, 56 Ill. 144; People
v. Glann, 70 I. 23.2 ; People v. Bolden, 91 El. 446. For the
construction of this clause of the State Constitution by the
Supreme Court of the State, see Iiliddleportv. .Ena Life Ins.
Co., 82 l. 562; People v. Jackson County, 92 Ill. 441; Prairie
v. Lloyd, 97 111. 179 ; Wade v. La Moille, 112 M. 79.
III. The alleged vote of the people was not taken'at an
election as required by the statute. Chicago & Iowa Railroad
v. .3Iallory, 101 IlL. 583 ; Liff.pincoft v. Pan-a, 92 Ill. 24.

OREGON v. JENNINGS.

ST

Argument for Plaintiff in Erkor.

IV., The town is not estopped by the recitals in the bonds
from making the defences now interposed: Asuming for the
present purpose that the recital is sufficient to show that the
bonds were issued in accordance with the provisions of the act
therein mentioned, this would fall far sh6rt of showing that
the same were issued in compliance with a vote of the people
of the town at an election held in pursuance of that act priorto the adoption of the constitution in 1870. The act required
an election to be held befote the bonds were issued, but did.
not require the same to be held before the adoption of the constitution in 1870. This requirement was imposed by the constitution itself. The recital does not purport toshow compliance
with the vote of the people nor with the constitutional requirement in any respect, and cannot be so enlarged by cons.truction
as to embrace thi'.same. Bucanan v. Iitchld, Sctool
-Districtv. Stone, Yorthei' Bank v. Porter Township, Dixon,
County v. Field, all cited above ; Bates v. Ind.School Distreot
of Lyo County, 25 Fed. Rep. 192 ; L-Lebram v. San. F"'ancisco,
24 Fed. Rep. 705.
V. The town is not estopped by the certificates connected
with the registration of the bonds from showing the truth in
its defence. Dizion, County v. Fi d and Daoviess County v.
Dickinson, cited above. It cannot be held that it is estopped
by the secret and fraudulent act of one who, at the time, had
no color of title to the office of. supervisor. Anthony v. Jasper County and .3ferchaints' Bank v. Bergen County,'both
cited ab6ve.
VI. No estoppel arises from the recitals contained in the
caption to the registration of the bonds in the supervisor's
book. Rev. Stat. I., c. 113, par. 12.
VIL The town is not estopped by the recovery in the
former suit, brought by Wallace upon other coupons, .from
making the defence set up in the special pleas in this suit.
The Wallace suit was brought on other coupons than those
involved in this suit. The defences interposed by the special
pleas were not set up and actually litigated in the Wallace
suit. Such being the case, the verdict and judomaent in that
suit do not estop the town from making either of the do-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument f6r plaintiff in Error.

fences set up in the special pleas in this suit. C'ormwell v.
County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351;
avis v. Brown, 94 U. S. 423;
?ussell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606; -Nat.Bank v. School District
(f ]?iverside,.25 Fed. Rep. 629; .esbit v. nd. School Dist.,
25 Fed. :Rep. 635. The statutory defence set up in the second
ple4 could not have been proven as against a bona flde holder
for value under the general issue, which was the only plda
filed in the Wallace suit. Anderson v. Jacobson, 66 111. 522;
Cole v. Joliet 0perca House Co., 79 111. 96; Sims v. R-ein,
]Breese, 292, 302. While it was competent at common law,
and independently of the statute, to prove fraud in the inception of the paper under that plea, it was sufficient answer
to such proof, introduced under the general issue at commbn
law, to show that the plaintiff was a bocna fide holder for
value. Smit, v. Sac Coun~ty, 11 Wall. 139.. Under the pleadings in that case, it was unnecessary that the jury should pass
iipon the question of fraud in order to find a verdict for the
,plaintiff, who appeared to be a bona fide holder. Under the
Illinois statute, when the defence that the making and executing of the paper was obtained by fraud, etc., is specially
pleaded, the defence is good against a bona f§de holder. Hubbard v. RankiA, and other cases cited ante. It is not competent to show by extrinsic evidence that matters were adjudicated in such former suit, not embraced within the issues as
formed on the record. Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580;
.Putnar v. NSew Albany, 4 Bissell, 365, 383; Prov'idence v.
Adams, 11 IR. I. 190.; Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606.
As to the Third Plea: The evidence shows that the defence set up in this plea, arising under § 12, Art. IX. of the
Constitution, was not in any manner litigated in the Wallace
suit. No evidence was introduced in that case tending to
show either the amount of the existing indebtedness of the
town or the assessed value of the taxable property therein.
The defence appears to have rested on other grounds. Davis
v. Brown, 94 U. S. 423, 428; Barger v. Jobbs, 67 Ill. 598;
Sturtevant v. Randall, 53 Maine, 149; Cromnwell v. County o,'
Sa.-, Russell v. Place, above cited.

OREGON v. JENNINGS.

89

Opinion of the Court.
XMfr. Samuel if. Packardfor defendant in error.
3a. JUSTICE BLAT.THForD, after stating the facts as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The court refused to submit to the jury, and we think properly, any question as to whether the making or execution -of
the bonds and coupons was obtained by fraud or circumvention.
Even if the statute applies to town bonds and their coupons,
no fraud or imposition was practised on Potter or Marsh to
induce them to sign these bonds and coupons. They knew
what they were signing and signed intentionally. The fraud
or circumvention intended by the statute, which only embodies
a rule of the common law, is not that which goes merely to
the consideration of the instrument, but it must go to the
execution or making; and there must be a trick or device by
which one kind of instrument is signed in the belief that it is
of another kind, or the amount or nature or terms of the
instrument must be misrepresented to the signer. No different ruling as to the statute has ever been made by the
Supreme Court of Illinois, especially in a case where, as here,
the holder of the instrument is a bana fde holder of it, before
maturity, for a valuable consideration, without notice. In
lathmar v. &Smith,45 Ill. 25, decided in 186 7 in construing
this statute, the court said: "A fraud in obtaining a note may
consist of any artifice practised upon a person to induce him
to execute it, when he did not intend to do such an act. Circumvention seems to be nearly, if not quite,'synonymous with
fraud. -t is any fraud whereby a person is induced by deceit
to make a -deed or other instrument. It must be borne in
mind that the fraud or covin must relate to the obtaining of
the instrument itself, and not to the consideration upon which
it is based. It is not fraand which relates to the quality, quantity, value, or character of the consideration that moves the
contract, but it is such a trick or device as induces the giving
of one character of instrument under the belief that it is
another of a different character; such as giving a note or

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

other agreement for one sum or thing when it is for another
•sum or thing; or as giving a note under the belief that it is
a receipt." This ruling was followed in Shipley v. Cai-Poll,
45" Ill. 285; Elliott v. Lejings, 54 Ill. 213; and 3faxay v.
IillHamson County, '72 Ill. 207.
It is also contended that the appointment of Potter as supervisor was invalid, because Schultz, though he had resigned as
justice, legally continued in office till his successor was elected,
and yet took no part in the appointment. But it is plain, we
think, that, within the language and meaning of the statute,
as respects the four members of the appointing board designated by statute, two of them were out of office so far as their'
acting as such members was concerned. The supervisor and
Schultz had resigned, and their offices were vacant, and it was
]awful for the remaining two officers to fill the vacancy in the
office of supervisor. No. authority to which we are referred
holds to the contrary. Where a town is trying to escape the
enforcement of its liability to creditors through the resignation of an officer on whom process is to be served, and the
failure to supply his place, the resigning officer is rightly held,
quoad creditors, to continue in office, subject to the service- of
process, till his successor qualifies. In the present case there
was not only a "vacancy" in the office of supervisor, for
the purpose of filling it, under § 1, but there was a vacancy
in the office which Schultz had held, for the purpose of the
action of Cartwright amd Marsh alone, as the remaining officers of the appointing board, to appoint a supervisor, under
§ 2. On any other construction, as, by § 2, a vacancy in the
office of justice can be filled only by election, a town would,
in case of a vacancy in the office of justice, have to go without
a supervisor, in case of a vacancy in his office, till a justice
could be elected.
Another defence is set up, under the amended third plea,
founded on § 12 of Article 9 of the Constitution of Illinois,
which went into effect August 8th, 1870, and provides as
follows: "§ 12. No county, city, township, school district,
or other municipal corporation shall be allowed to become
indebted in any manner or for any purpose, to an amount,

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Opinion of the Court.

including existing indebtedness, in the aggregate exceeding
live per centum on the value of the taxable property therein,
to be ascertained by the last assessment for the State and
county taxes previous to the incurring of such indebtedness.
Any county, city, school district, or other municipal corporation, incurring any indebtedness as aforesaid, shall, before or
at the time of doing so, provide for the collection of a direct
annual tax sufficient to pay the interest on such debt as it falls
due, and also to pay and discharge the principal thereof within.
twenty years from the time of contracting the same. This
section shall not be construed to prevent any county,' city,
township, school district, or other municipal corporation from
issuing their bonds in compliance with any vote of the people
which may have been had prior to the adoption of this Constitution, in pursuance of any law providing therefor."
It appearing that, when the bonds in question in this suit
were issued, the debt of the town was already greater than five
per centum on the value of its taxable property, as ascertained
by the assessment for 1870, it is contended that the bonds
could not be lawfully issued, except in compliance with the
vote of June 23d, 1870, and in conformity with the conditions
imposed by that vote, one of which was the completion and
equipment of the first division of the road on or before January 1st, 1871, and that that condition was not observed.
The question is sought to be made one of power or authority
to issue the bonds, within the rules laid down by this court as
applicable even in the case of bonds in the hands of a bona
fide holder.
At the time the bonds in question were issued, a statute
enacted April 16th, 1869, was in force in Illinois, § 7 of which,
Gross' Stat., 1869, vol. 1, d ed., p. 556, provided that any
town should have the right, "upon making any subscription
or donation to any railroad company, to prescribe the conditions upon which such bonds, subscriptions, or donations shall
be made, and such bonds, subscriptions, or donations shall not
be valid and binding until such conditions precedent shall have
been complied with."
The language of this statute was as imperative as is that ol

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution of 1870 in regard to complying with the
conditions contained in any vote of the people; and § 6 of
the Act of March 30th, 1869, before cited, prescribes that the
proper corporate authorities, of the town shall make the donation or subscription, "as shall be determined at said election."
In respect to this compliance with the conditions imposed
by the vote of the people, whether the question is to be
regarded as arising under the provision of the Constitution or
that of a statute, it must equally be regarded as concluded
by the recital in the bonds, made by the supervisor and the
town clerk. Section 6 of the Act of March 30th, 1869, provides that if a majority of the legal voters of the town, voting
at the election, vote for the donation, the town shall, by its
"corporate authorities," make the donation to the company,
"as shall be determined at said election," and shall issue its
bonds to, the company, "which bonds shall be signed by the
supervisor and c6untersigned by the clerk in towns organized
under the township law." Within the numerous decisions by
this court on the subject, the supervisor and the town clerk,
they being named in the statute as the officers to sign the
bonds, and the "corporate authorities" to act for the town in
issuing them to the company, were the persons entrusted with
the duty of deciding, before issuing the bonds, whether the
conditions determined at the election existed. If they have
certified to that effect in the bonds, the town is estopped from
asserting, as against a bona jide holder, that the conditions
prescribed by the popular vote were not complied with. They
state, in each bond, that the faith, credit, and property of the
town are, by the bond, solemnly pledged for the payment of
the principal and interest named in it "under authority of"
the Act of March 30th, 1869, reciting its title, and that the
60 bonds, amounting to $50,000, "are the only bonds issued
by said town of Oregon under and by virtue of said Act."
The provision in § 6 of the Act, that the town shall, by
its proper corporate authority, annually assess and levy a
tax to pay the interest and principal of the bonds, is a warrant for the pledge made, in the bonds, of the faith, credit,
and property of the town. The recitals are within the ad-

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Opinion of the Court.

judged cases in this court, as to the effect of recitals in bonds,
that they are issued "under authority of" a specified statute,
and "under and by virtue- of" that statute, and they estop
the town from taking the defence.that the first division of the
road was not completed by the time specified, as against the
plaintiff, as a lonafde h older of the bonds.
In Pawa v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529, 539, this court upheld
the effectiveness of a recital in bonds, in favor of a ban ftde
holder, as against an alleged defect in the mode of conducting
al election, held prior to.the adoption of this same Constitution of Illinois, 'the bonds being issued after its adoption,
although that instrument forbade the issui.ug of the bonds,
unless their issue should have been authorized under then existing. laws, by a vote of the people prior to the adoption of the
Constitution.
The present case is directly within the decision of this court
in Ins. Co. v. B uce, 105 U. S. 328, where it was held that
recitals in bonds estopped a town in Illinois, as against a bona
fide holder, from showing that conditions imposed on its liability by the vote of the people had not been complied with,
although the statute declared that the bonds should not be
valid and binding until such conditions precedent had been
complied with. There are numerous other cases in this court
to the same effect.
The provision of § 12 of Article 9 of the Constitution of
Illinois did not introduce any new rule of evidence in regard
to the mode of proving, in favor of a lona fde holder, the
compliance with the vote of the people, but left the compliance
to be conclusively established in such a case by the recital in
the bonds, made by the designated official authorities.
We are not referred to any decision of the Supreme Court
of Illinois, made prior to the issuing of the bonds in question,
which holds to the contrary of the views we have announced.
The case of The People v. D tcier, 56 Ill. 144, decided at
September Term, 1870, was a mandamus applied for by a railroad company to compel a supervisor to subscribe for stock,
where conditions imposed by the vote of the town had not
been complied with, and its bonds had not been issued. The

91

OCTOBER TERMI;

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

mandamus was refused. This direct proceeding is, as this
court has uniformly held, a very different thing from a suit
on the bonds, by a lonff e holder, the cases not being analogous or governed by the same rules.
A defence is also set -up, under the amended fourth plea,
founded on the second additional section or article to the Constitution of Illinois, of 1870, which took effect July 2, 1870,
and is in these words :- " N o county, city, town, township, or
other municipality shall ever become subscriber to the capital
stocl of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation
to or loan its credit in aid of such corporation: Prnickled,
howev'er, That the adoption of this article shall not be construed
as affecting the right of any such municipality to make such
subscriptions where the same have been authorized, under
existing laws, by a vote of the people of such municipalities
prior to such adoption."
The bonds in question having been issued after July 2, 1870,
and the requirement, to make them valid, being that they must
have been authorized, under laws in force before July 2, 1870,,
by a vote of the people of the town given before that date, it
is contended that they were not so authorized, because the
vote of June 23, 1870' was taken at a town meeting held and
presided over by a moderator, and not by judges of election.
The argument made is, that § 6 of the Act of Mhfarch 30th,
1869, provided that the election should "be held and conducted and return thereof made as is provided by law, and,
in any village or city, as is provided by the law under which
the same is incorporated ;" and that a town meeting, presided
over by a moderator, and not held by the supervisor, assessor,
and collector, as judges of election, was not an "election,"
within the meaning of the statute, and so was not an election
"under existing laws," within the meaning of the Constitution.
The election was in fact conducted in the manner required
for the election of town officers, and not in the manner
required for general elections. We are of opinion that, under
the Act of 1869, the election in a town could properly be conducted in the manner prescribed by law for the election in
towns of town officers, namely, by a moderator and the town

OREGON v. JENNINGS.
Opinion of the Court.

clerk, the town clerk having given, as required by the Act, the
prior notice of the election, and the return of the election being
filed in the office of the town clerk, and the two officers being
paid by the- town. The voting for town officers at annual
town meetings in the manner prescribed therefor by the
statutes of Illinois, is called in those statutes an "election," and
this special voting in the same manner for this town object
was an "election," within the meaning of the Act of 1869'
The requirement of the Act is, that the "election shall be held
and conducted and return thereof made as is provided by
law," and not "as is provided by law for general elections."
If a town, it is the law provided for town elections. If a
village or city, and the law of its incorporation has special
provisions, those are to be followed; otherwise, any general
law as to village or city elections is to be observed.- As the
proceeding was to originate by an application filed in the
town :clerk's office, so the same officers who would conduct an
ordinary town election were to be concerned with this election,
and the town clerk's office was to be the place of deposit of all
the papers and of the return of the vote, and two town officers
were to issue the bonds. None of the proceedings were to
be connected with th6 county clerk's office, as in the case of
a, general election. This was the ruling of the Supreme Court
of Illinois,. in a case decided after June 23, 1870, though,
before these bonds were issued, TAe Pebpe v. Dutcie, 56
Ill. 144; and it was followed in other cases, in that court,
after the bonds were issued, though somewhat modified more
recently. We think it was the correct ruling.
The questions above considered cover substantially all the
assignments of error. The direction to find a verdict for the
plaintiff was proper.
Jvdgment aflrmed.

