OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

HANRICK v. PATRICK.

BRANCH

'.

PATRICK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued October 28, 29, 1886. -Decided November 29, 1886.

When the statutes of the state in which an action at law in a Federal court
is tried permit a third party to intervene pro interesse so. as in equity,
and on the trial a general verdict is rendered and a general judgment
entered against both the intervenor and the losing party, the intervenor
is not a necessary party to the writ of error to this court, if his interest
is clearly separable and distinct.
Following the decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas, and also' agreeing
with them, this court holds that § 9 of the Act of th4 Legislature of
Texas, of March 18, 1848, so far as it conferred upon aliens a defeasible
estate by inheritance from a citizen, notwithstanding the alienage, is not
repealed by § 4 of the Act of February 13, 1854; and that immediately
after the passage of the British Naturalization Act of 1870, defensible
titles of British allen heirs to land in Texas became indefeasible.
The grantor in a deed and all the subscribingwitnesses being residents in a
foreign country, proof of its execution by proof of the handwriting of
the subscribing witnesses held sufficient.
An unnoted erasure in a deed changing the name of the grantee from Elizabeth to Eliza may be explained by proof that Elizabeth afd Eliza are
identical and the same person.
The general rule in Texas that property purchased during the marriage,
whether the conveyance be to husband or wife, is primafacle community
property holds only where the purchase is made with community funds ;
and the presumption may be rebutted by proof that the purchase wfts
intended for the wife.
When a deed of laud in Texas is made to a married woman for a nominal
consideration, the presumption is that it was intended to vest the title in
her as separate property.

The power of attorney through which intervenors claim considered.
A covenant of general warranty in a deed of "all the right, title, and interest" of the grantor in the premises described does not estop him from
asserting a subsequently acquired±itle thereto.

This was an action of trespass to try the title to real estate
in Texas. There was also a motion to- dismiss for want of
jurisdiction. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

HANRICK v. PATRICK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.1fr. iF Hallett Phillips and _Y. Z. TI.Goodrich for Hanrick, plaintiff in error, cited,.- on the motion to dismiss:
1filliams v. Bank, 11 Wheat. 414; Owings v. Eincannon,7
Pet. 99 ; .fasterson v. Her vor, 10 Wall. 416 ; Hampton, v.
Rouse, 13 Wall.187; Simpson, v. Greeley, 20 WaIl. 152-and
on the merits: Oryr v. Hodgson, 4 Wheat. 453; Jfe nney -v.
Saviego, 18 H6w. 235, 239; Hadden,v. Collector, 5 Wall. 107,
111; United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88; .Daviess v. Fairbaiern 3 How. 636; State v. Stoll, 17 Wall. 425; Cook County
Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 445; Sirey, undgr Art. 11;
Aubry & Eau,Cours de Droit Civil; Proudhon, c. 9, § 2, c.
11, § 1; Merlin, Art. Etranger,§ 1, Nos. 7 & 8; Dmzanton, 1,
pp. 159, 160; Dalloz, Jtrisprudence Generale. Sullivan v.
Burnett, 105 iT. S. 334; Fai?fax v. Hunter, 7 Oranch, 603;,
Blight v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535; Gibson v. Lyon, 115 U. S.
139; East Alabama Railwayv. -Doe,114 U. S. 340; Harrison
v. Boring, 44 Texas, 255; Smith v. iSeely, 12 Wall. 358;
Comstock v. Smith, 13 Pick. 116; S. C. 23 Am. Dec. 670;
Washington v. Ogden, 1 Black, 450; .3iller v. Fletcher, 27
Gratt. 403; East Line Railroad v. Garrett, 52 Texas, 133;
R-ainey v. Chambuns, 56 Texas, 17; Jones v. fc.Aasters, 20
How. 8; Lott v. -aiser, 61 Texas, 665;,Rogan,v. Williams,
63 Texas, 123; .kirk v. Aravigation Co., 49 Texas, 213; Cooke
v. Bremond, 27 Texas, 457; Yerarnendi v. Hutchins, 48 Texas,
,531; Ciyer v. Andrews, 11 Texas, 170; Barclay v. Cameron,
25 Texas, 232; Hardy v. De Zeon, 5 Texas, 211; Osterman
v. Badwin, 6 Wall. 116; Hfauen.tein v. _Lynham, 100 U. S.
483; Bryan v. Sundbury, 5 Texas, 418; State v. International
Railroad,57 Texas, 539; Cranev. Reeder, 21 Mich. 24; Jackson
v. Fitzsimmons, 10 Wend. 9; S. C. 24: Am. Dec. 198; Tenable
v. Beauchamp, 3 Dana, 321; 5. (2 28 Am. Dec. 74.
.3kr. ZL F. _forris, for Sargent, plaintiff in error, cited -on
the motion to dismiss: Cox v. United States, 6 Pet. 172; Germain v. 2fason, 12 Wall. 259; -rfasterson v. He;ndon, 10
Wall. 416; Silnpson,v. Greely, 20 Wall. 152; O'JDowd v. ussell, 14 Wall. 402; Feibelman v. Packard,108 7T. S.14; Hurt
v. Hollingsworth, 100 UJ. S.100; Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 499;

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Bein v. Heath, 12 How.. 168; Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Pet. 648and on the merits: Hanrick v. I7anriek, 54 Texas, 101; -[anrick v. Uan),ie7,, 61 Texas, 596; -Zan .?enselaei' v. -earney,

11 How. 297; J[fai'tison v. Boring, 44 Texas, 255; .ic/had'econ
v. Traver, 112 U. S. 423; Iliti v. Zat. Jfet. Bank, 111 U. S.

,722; Cooke v. B'emond, 27 Texas, 457; Piogan v. Tilliams,
63 Texas, 123.
-fr.J. . B ady for defendants in error, (M'. T . Ring
was with him on the brief,) cited- on the motion to dismiss:

20 How. 280; Simson. v. Greely, 20 Wall. 152; Jlasterson v.
,Herndon, 10 Wall. 416; Burleson v. HMenderson, 4 Texas, 49;
O'Dowd v. Russell, 14 Wall. 402; Hampton. v. Rouse, 13
Wall. 187; IFilliams v..Bank, 11 Wheat. 414; Wilson v. Ins.
Co., 12 Pet. 140-and on the merits: Alexeander v. Gillian,
39 Texas, 227; Riley v. Janeson,3 N. H. 23; S. C. 14 Am.
Dec. 325; lanriek v. lanrick, 54 Texas, 101; 1lanriek v.
.Jlanrick, 61 Texas, 596; Hanrick v. Hanrick, 63 Texas, 618;
Puceer v. Li0k, 55 Texas, 208; Waring v. Croow, 11 Cal.
366; .Dufont v. etkernan, 10 Cal. 354; hlolton v. Smith, 7
N. 1-. 446; Van Rensselaer v. .Kearney,11 How'. 297; Gilmer
v. Poindexte;,,10 I-ow. 257; B)yant v. Vrigivia Coal Co., 93
U. S. 326; Ganier v. Cotton, 49 Texas, 101; Cordia v. Cage,
44 Texas, 532; Sith v. Strahan,16 Texas, 314; S. C. 67 Ain.
Dec. 622; .Durlhainv. Ciatham, 21 Texas, 231; S. C. 73 Am.
Dec. 228; Baker v. BakNe, 55 Texas, 577.
Ir. H .
low also filed a brief for defendants in error in
L1.
support of the motion to dismiss, citing the following cases
not cited by Jr..Brady: Owings v. Zincannon, 7 Pet. 399;
Todd v. Daniel, 16 Pet. 521; Forgay v. Conrad,6 How. 201.
Ia.

TusTicE MAirTws delivered the opinion of the court.

Eliza, 1. O'Brien, since deceased, with Philip O'Brien, her
husband, and William Brady, citizens of New York, commenced
their action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas, against Edward G. Hlanrick, a citizen of Texas. It was an action of trespass to try the title to

HANRICK v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

real estate in the county of Falls, in that State, described generally as three tracts, one known as the Antanacio-de La Serda
eleven league grant; the second as two parcels granted to
Pedro Zarza; and the third a part of the eleven league tract
granted to Rafael d'Aguire. The common source of title as
between these parties was Edward Hanrick, who died in 1865
in Montgomery County, Alabama, intestate and without issue.
never having married. The plaintiffs below claim title as follows: Edward Hanrick left surviving him as his next of kin
and only heirs at the time of his death, one sister, Elizabeth
O'Brien, two brothers, named respectively John and James
Hanrick, and one nephew, Edward G. Hanrick, the defendant,
he being the son and only child of Philip Hanrick, who died
in 1852, and who was another brother of Edward Hanrick.
Elizabeth O'Brien resided in the county of Wexford, Ireland,
and is, and always was, an alien to the United States, and a
subject of Great Britain. John Hanrick died intestate and
without issue, never having married, in the year 1870, in the
county of Wexford, Ireland, an alien to the United States, and
a subject of Great Britain. The said James Hanrick left surviving him as his next of kin and only heirs, four daughters,
named respectively Elizabeth Clare, Catherine O'Neill, Annie,
otherwise called Honora, and Ellen Ilanrick, and four grandchildren, the children of a deceased daughter, named respectively Mary, Elizabeth, Bridget, and Robert -Whelan, and one
son, Nicholas Hanrick. These descendants of James Hanrick
reside in Ireland, except Nicholas, Annie, otherwise called
Ionora, and Ellen Hanrick, who reside in the State of New
York. By virtue of these facts, and of the laws of Texas and
Great Britain, as hereafter shown, it was claimed that Eliza
O'Brien in 1878 was seized and possessed of an undivided one
third interest in the said estate of Edward Hanrick in the said
lands, when it was claimed she conveyed to the plaintiff, Eliza
M. O'Brien, her daughter-in-law, for her separate use and benefit,
all her interest in the said estate and lands; William Brady,
the other plaintiff below, being entitled to one half of the said
undivided one third, by virtue of a conveyance from Eliza M.
O'Brien and her husband, Philip O'Brien.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant in possession, having pleaded not guilty of the
'trespass complained of, asserted title in himself, as the sole heir
at law of the said Edward Hanrick, deceased, on the ground
that he was the only descendant having inheritable blood,
according to the laws of Texas.
The suit was begun February 18, 1880, and issue was finally
joined on amended pleadings by the filing of an answer by
Edward G. Hanrick on April 3, 1883. On the next day,
Wharton Branch appeared as an intervenor-in the cause, and
filed a pleading called an original answer, in which he denies
the sufficiency, in law of the plaintiff's petition; objects that
on its. face it is shown that necessary parties have not been
joined ,as plaintiffs; denies all the allegations of the petition;
pleads not guilty to the trespasses alleged therein; 'and'then
sets up title in himself to an undivided one fourth of three
fourths of the estate under a conveyance alleged to have been
made to him on. the"i4bh of February, 1878, by Philip O'Brien,
as attorney in fact, acting under a power of attorney alleged
to have been made on the 16th of May, 1870, by Elizabeth
O'Brien and James and John Hanrick. It is alleged that by
that power of attorney Philip O'Brien 'was authorized and
empowered to sell and convey their interests in said estate, and
in pursuance of which he made the deed under which the intervenor claims title. The consideration of that deed is stated to
have been moneyr theretofore paid out, and expenses incurred
Sind legal advice and information furnished and rendered by
the defendant to the said Philip O'Brien. The pleading concludes by praying judgment for the defendant against all parties
to the suit, establishing his right, title, and interest in the
estate; and that the same be set apart to him in severalty;
and for costs and general relief.
On the same day John B. Sargent .lso appeared as intervenor, and filed an original answer on his behalf, similar in
form to that of Wharton Branch, and claiming title to an
undivided one half of the interest of Elizabeth O'Brien and
John and James Hanrick, under a deed made to him conveying that interest on the 14th of February, 1878, by Philip
O'Brien, acting as their attorney in fact under the same power

HANRICK v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

of attorney referred to in the answer of Wharton Branch;
and concluding with a prayer for a similar judgment in his
own behalf.
Thereupon the plaintiffs in the action filed pleadings tyed
an answer to the petition for leave to intervene, and plaintiffs'
first supplemental petition, in which they asked that the leave to
intervene on behalf of Branch and Sargent be denied and their
petitions struck from the files; and specifically setting out the
grounds on which they claimed that the alleged conveyances
made by Philip O'Brien, as attorney in fact, to them respectively, should be held to be null and void. Amongst those
grounds were the following: First. Prior to the execution cf
the deeds under which the intervenors claim title, two of the
principals in the power of attorney, James and John Hanrick,
had died, thereby revoking the authority. Second. That the execution of the said deeds on the part of said Philip O'Brien had
been obtained by the said Branch and the said Sargent by
fraudulent representations, and that the same had never in fact
been delivered. The plaintiffs' supplemental petition concludes
with a prayer that they have and recover of the said Wharton
Branch and the said John B. Sargent, as well as the said
Edward G. Ilanrick, an undivided one third interest in the
lands described in their original complaint, and for all other
relief, general and special.
The defendant, Edward G. Ranrick, after the filing of these
interventions, moved to dismiss the cause, on the ground,
among others, that he had no interest in the controversy as
between the plaintiffs on the one hand and Branch and Sargent on the other; but all objections to the intervention were.
overruled or disregarded, and the cause proceeded to trial on
the issues as made between the plaintiffs and the defendant,
Edward G. Hanrick, and also on those as between the plaintiffs and the said Branch and Sargent. The cause having been,
submitted to the jury on the 10th of April, 1883, a verdict was
returned as follows: "We, the jury, find for the plaintiff;"
and thereupon judgment was entered on the vei ict as follows:
"It is, therefore, ordered and adjudged by the -cburt that the
plaintiffs, Eliza M. O'Brien and Philip 0'BrIen 'and William
VOL. Cx X-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Brady, have and recover of the defendant, Edward G. HKanrick, and of the intervenors, -Wharton Branch and John B.
Sargent, an undivided one third interest in and to the following-described lands: . . . And it is further ordered that
a writ of possession in favor of said plaintiffs issue therefor;
and that plaintiffs do have and recover of such intervenors
such costs by them incurred by reason of such intervention,
and of defendant all costs which were incurred herein, not
including any costs incurred by the said intervention, for which
let execution respectively issue."
To reverse this judgnent, the defendant, Edward G. Ianrick, sued out a writ of error on April 16, 1883, which was
docketed in this court on the 16th of August of the same year.
To reverse the judgment as against them, the intervenors,
Wharton Branch and John B. Sargent, sued out their writ of
error separately on September 26, 1884, which was docketed
in this court on the 24Ith of November of the same year. The
intervention of Branch and Sargent was permitted in compliance with Article 4788 of the Revised Statutes of Texas, of
1879, which provides that "when a party is sued for lands,
the r'eaZ cawner' or warrantor may make himself, or may be
made, a party defendant in the suit, and shall be entitled to
make such defence as if he had been the original defendant
in the action."
Article 1188 prescribes that "the pleadings of an intervenor
shall conform to the requirements of pleadings, on the part of
the plaintiff and defendant respectively, so far as they may be
applicable."
The defendants in error, the administrator of Eliza, 31.
O'P n, Philip O'Brien, and William Brady, now move to
dismiss the writ of error sued out by Hanrick on the ground
that the judgment -was jointly against him and the intervenors, Branch and Sargent, and that all should have joined
in the same writ. The same objection, of course, applies to the
writ of error sued out severally by the intervenors, -Branch
and Sargent. This motion presents the first question for consideration.
We assume, without so deciding, that the proceedings on the

HANRICK -v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

part of the intervenors may be justified under the statutes of
Texas. It must also be admitted to be a general rule, well
established by the practice alLd in the decisions of this court,
that, when a judgment against defendants is joint, all the
parties affected thereby must join in the writ of error, or there
must be a summons and severance, or its equivalent. The
question here, however, is, whether this judgment, although
so in form, is joint in law as against the original defendant
and the intervenors. The verdict in favor of the plaintiffs
against them, although single, was rendered upon different
and altogether distinct issues. The intervenors defended as
against the plaintiffs, not on behalf of the original defendant,
but altogether in their own interest, claiming title, not only
against the plaintiffs, but adverse to that of the defendant.
Indeed, the intervenors' title was derived through the plaintiffs,
and .their claim was under them, and, as between them and
the original defendant, their interest was altogether with the
plaintiffs and against the defendant. The ground of their
right of recovery against the defendant was the very title
asserted by the plaintiffs, and their claim could be succesfully
prosecuted only by establishing the right of the plaintiffs to
recover. Their right against the defendant was to recover
against him if the plaintiffs recovered, and their right against
the plaintiffs was to recover against the defendant only in the
event that the plaintiffs first succeeded in recovering against
him. The situation as to them is anomalous. The litigation
was triangular. The judgment must be regarded as joint only
in form, but severable in fact and in law. It is to be read as
if it were based upon a finding that the plaintiffs recover as
against the defendant for the title asserted against him, and
against the intervenors in respect to the title asserted by them
against the plaintiffs. The judgment for costs is in fact separated, the costs of the intervention being regarded as costs in
a separate suit. In fact there were two suits, one interjected
in the other, in whidh 'the parties are different, the titles are
'dffer~nt, therinterests are different, and there could be no
joint judgment in both except in mere words. None of the
cases cited in support df the motion to dismiss are applicable

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Qpinion of the Court.

here, because they refer to judgments in common law actions
where no such anomaly as is presented in this record could
occur. In equity, where interventions pro interesse &uo have
been permitted to those affected by the proceeding, but not
parties to the original controverisy, or where the original parties have distinct -and separable interests, the same general
rule as to appeals applies to joint decrees; but it has always
been held that, where the decree is final and separate or
separable, those not affected by it are not necessary parties
to the appeal. Fo&rqay v. Conrcd, 6 How. 201.
The same principle must govern judgments at law rendered
in actions according to the forms of procedure prescribed by
the statutes of the States in which they are tried where interventions such as the present are permitted, And the same rule
must be adopted in reference to them.
The motions to dismiss are, therefore, denied.
The principal question in the original action arises upon the
defence that the plaintiffs below were aliens at the time of
descent cast by the death of Edward Hanrick, in 1865, and,
under the laws of Texas, therefore not capable of acquiring title
by inheritance; it being claimed that the defendant, Edward
G. Hanrick, a citizen of Texas, was the sole heir at law.
The Constitution of the Republic of Texas-continued in,
that of the State - contained the following provision, § 10,
General Provisions: 'No alien shall hold land in Texas,
except by titles emanating directly from the Government of
this Republic. But if any citizen of this Republic shall die
intestate or otherwise, his children or heirs shall inherit his
estate, and aliens shall have a reasonable time to take possession of aid dispose of the same, in a manner hereafter to be
pointed out by law."
In pursuance of this provision, -an act defining what a reasonable time should be was passed on January 28, 1840; Hartley's Digest, Art. 586, and renacted March 18, 1848, Paschal's
Digest, Art. 44, in § 9 of an act entitled "An Act to regulate
the descent and distribution of intestates' estates," as follows:
"Section 9. In making title to land by descent, it shall be no
bar to a party that any ancestor through whom he derives

HANRICK v. PATRIUX.
Opinion of the Court.

his descent from the intestate is or hath been, an alien; 'and
every alien to whom any land may be devised or-may descend,
shall have nine years to become a citizen of the Republic, and
take possession of such land, or shall have nine years to sell
the same, before it shall be declared to be forfeited, or before
it shall escheat to the government."
An act was passed February 13, 1854, Laws Texas, 1853-4,
98, entitled "An Act to define the civil rights of aliens," which
is as follows:
"SEcTiox 1. Be it enacted, etc., that any alien, being a free

white person, shall have and enjoy in the State of Texas such
rights as are or shall be accorded to American citizens by the
laws of the nation to which such alien shall belong, or by
treaties of such nation with the United States.
"Sac. 2. That aliens may take and hold any property, real
or personal, in this State by devise or descent from any alien
or citizen in the same manner in which citizens of the United
States may take and hold real or personal estate by devise or
descent within the country of such alien.
. "SEa. 3. That any alien, being a free white person, who
shall become a resident of this State, and shall, in conformity
with the nathralization laws of the United States, have declared
his intention to become a citizen of the United States, shall
have the right to' acquire and hold real estate in this State, in
the same manner as if he was a citizen of the United States.
"SEc. 4. Tfat the ninth section of an act entitled 'An Act
to regulate the descent and distribution of intestates' estates,'
approved March eighteenth, eighteen hundred and forty-eight,
is hereby repealed so far as the same may be inconsistent with
this act; and this act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage."
This act was in force in 1865, when Edward Hanrick died.
At that time the common law was in force in England whereby,
as was held by this court in Or v. Hodgson, 4 Wheat. 453, an
alien might take an estate by the act of the parties, as by
purchase, but could not take by the act of the law, as by
descdnt, for want of inheritable blood. "Where a person dies
leaving issue who are aliens, the latter are not deemed his

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

heirs at liw, for they have no inheritable blood, and the estate
descends to the next of kin who have inheritable blood, in the
same manner as if no such alien issue were in existence."
But on the 12tt- bf May, 1870, the British Parliament passed
an act entitled '- An Act to amend the law relating to the
legal condition of aliens and British subjects," styled the Naturalization Act of 1870. By § 2 it prescribed the status of aliens
in the United Kingdom as follows: "Real and personal property of every description may be taken, acquired, held, and
disposed of by an "alienin the same manner in all respects as
by a natural-born British subject, and a title to real and personal property of every description may be derived through,
from, or in succession to an alien in the same manner in all
respects as through, from, or in succession to a natural-born
British gubject: Provided, (1) that this section shall not
confer any right on an alien to hold real property situate out
of the United Kingdom, and shall not qualify an alien for any
office or for any municipal, parliamentary, or other franchise:
(2) that this section shall not entitle an alien to any right
or privilege as a British subject, except such rights and privileges in respect of property as are hereby expressly given to
him: (3) that this section shall not affect any estate or
interest in real or personal property to which any person has
or may become entitled, either mediately or immediately, in
possession or expectancy, in pursuance of any disposition made
before the passing of this Act, or in pursuance of any devolution by law on the death of any person dying before the passing of this Act."
It is conceded that if Edward Hanrick, the ancestor, had
died aftET the enactment of this British statute, the plaintiffs
below would have been entitled under the Texas statute of
1854 to claim as his heirs at law their proportion and interest
in his real estate. It is contended, however, on the part of
the defendant, that inasmuch as at the time of the descent
cast in 1865 there was no such British statute as that contemplated by the Texas act of 1854, the plaintiffs were under
such a disability of alienage at that time that they were cut
off from the inheritance, which, becoming at that instant

HANRICK v. PATRICK.

167

Opinion of the Court.

vested by law in the defendant, Edward G. Hanrick, the subsequent passage of the British statute could not be permitted
by any retroactive effect to divest that interest in favor of the
plaintiffs. On the other hand, it is contended by the plaintiffs
that under the ninth section of the act of March 18, 1848,
which they claim was still in force in 1865, Elizabeth O'Brien,
as sister of Edward Hanrick, although an alien, was entitled
as his heir at law to a defeasible estate as such, which she was
entitled to make indefeasible within nine years after descent
cast by becoming a citizen of the State and taking possession
of the land, with the right to sell the same in the alternative
before it should be declared to be forfeited, or before it should
escheat to the government, and which subsequently became
indefeasible by the operation of the act of 1854, in consequence
of the passage of the British statute of 1870.
This contention on the part of the plaintiffs below is met
again by the defendant with the proposition that § 9 of the
act of March 18, 1848, was repealed by § 4 of the act of
February 13, 1854.
This very question, in another litigation involving the same
title, came up directly for adjudication in the Supreme Court
of Texas in the case of Hfan ,iek v. Hafaiek, 54 Texas, 101.
The following is an extract from the opinion of the court in
that case. "The statute of 1854 is an affirmative one, and by
long established rules of construction must be considered as
additional to the then existing § 9, act of 1848, upon the
same subject-matter, and that the latter is not repealed by it,
unless this is done in express terms or by necessary hinplication. Potter's Dwarris on Statutes, 189; 1 Bishop Crim. Law,
1st ed., par. 175, 194. [4th ed. §§ 175, 194.] The statute of
1854 dobs not in express tern.s repeal § 9, act of 1848,
for it is affirmatively provided that it is repealed so far as inconsistent with the act of 1854, thus clearly evincing the legislative intent that the latter act would be the rule only in certain cases. Neither, it is believed, was this § 9 repealed by
the statute of 1854 by implicktion under old and well established rules of construction governing such cases." pp. 108,109.
The court then proceeds to point out from the history of

16&

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
,Opinion of the Court.

the legislation of Texas on the subject the policy of the
State, and adds as follows: "In pursuance of this policy, and
to meet in a proper spirit the modern liberal international
legislation upon the subject of alienage, the act of 1854 was
passed, not it is believed in a spirit of retaliation and to withdraw from ctizens of those countries which may not have
passed such rebipioal laws as contemplated by that act, the
benefits of our previous legislation, but simply to make our*legislation conform in the particular case with that of those
countries which may also have legislated upon the subject.
The act of 1854 did not in terms limit the rights of aliens
generally whichi previously had been~granted by § 9, act
of 1848, by restricting them to such rights, and tMwse only,
as were or might be granted to citizens of the United States
by their government. On the contrary, it was ah affirmative
and enlarging statute; and intended to give to aliens such
rights and privileges, in addition to those granted by § 9,
act of 1848, as had been or should be given by their government to citizens of the United States." p. 111.
In conclusion on this point, the court say: "We are of opinion, therefore, that the statute of 1854, neither by its express
terms nor by a proper construction of its provisions and intention, did so repeal § 9, act of 1848, as to prevent, if they are
otherwise entitled, the alien heirs of Edward Hanrick from deriving title by descent under it to real estate in Texas." p. 112.
The Supreme Court of Texas thereupon proceeded to consider the further question whether, if a title did so descend and
vest in such alien heirs, they can, being still aliens and subjects
of Great Britain, maintain a suit for the recoverypf their interests after nine years have elapsed since descent was cast in
1865. In answer to that question they say: "Notwithstanding
the tendency of the earlier decisions of this court to the contrary, under its more recent decisions and those of the Supreme
COurt of the United States, the effect of the provision of the
Constitution of the.Republic, and the statutes of 1840 and
1848, upon the subject of alienage, before quoted, was to vest
a defeasible title to real estate in Texas into the alien children
and heirs of a citizen of the United States who may have died

VANRIC4 v. PATRICK
Opinion of the Court.

intestate leaving such property; which title was valid both
against individuals and also the State, not only for the period
of 'nine years; but for such further time until the State by
some proper proceedings in the nature of ofee found had
declared a forfeiture. Sa&riego v. WiVte, 30 Texas, 576; Settegast v. SckrbInpf, 35 Texas, 323; Andrews v. &.pear,48 Texas,
'567; Osterman v.Badwin, 6 Wall. 116; Airhart v. 3fassieu,

98 U. S. 491; Pillipsv. 3ooe, 100 U. S. 208. No proceeding has been taken in this case to declare the land forfeited:
From the date of the death of Edward Hanrick, in 1865, to the
passage of the alove act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1870, nine years have not
elapsed. Immediately upon the passage of-this act the defeasible title in the alien heirs of Edward ilanrick was, by the
provisions of the act of 1854, changed into an indefeasible title;
the same vesting into his heirs according to our statute of
descent and distribution in force at the time of descent cast."
This decision of the Supreme Court of Texas is directly in
point, and was repeated in the case of Haw'ick v. Hanrick,61
Texas, 596, and also in the case of Hani& v. Hanriek, 63
Texas, 618.
In the case of Airhart v. 3Xassie, 98 U. S. 491,. some of
these provisions of the law of Texas in one aspect were carefully reviewed, and it was there said that "the act of January,
1840, declared that, in making title by descent, it should be no
bar to a party that any andestors'through whom he derives
his descent from the intestate is or hath been an idien. This
law would seem to be the legitimate result of the status of
aliens with regard to title to lands in Texas; the prohibiti6ii
to hold lands being provisional only, not operatie unless they
failed to become citizens or dispose of their land within nine
years; and not even then until regular proceedings should be
provided for and should be had to annul the title. The later
cases in Texas have fully established this doctrine;" referring
to the cases of Sar'iego v. TWte, 30 Texas, 576; Settegast v.
Schr'i-rf, 35 Texas, 323; and Andtews v. Spieeaw, 48 Texas.
567.
Great weight. if not conclusive effect, in our opinin.is to be

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

,given to these decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas upon
the question of the construction of the statutes of the State, as
affecting titles to real estate within its territory, and upon the
authority of those decisions alone we are quite willing to rest
the conclusion that the ninth section of the act of 1848, so far
as it conferred upon the plain*'ffs below a defeasible estate by
inheritance from Edward Hanrick, notwithstanding their alienage, is not repealed by the subsequent provisions of the act of
1854:. .riddleton v. "c Grew, 23 How. 45. We are, however,
also of the opinion that the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Texas on that point are well sustained by the reasons on which
they proceed.. It follows, therefore, that the defence put forward by Edward G. Hanrick, as against the plaintiffs, based
on the alienage of Elizabeth O'Brien, cannot be sustained.
We proceed, in the next place, to consider and dispose of
certain assignments of error predicated on the rulings of the
court as to the admission in evidence and effect of a deed produced by the plaintiffs and read to the jury, dated May 11,
1878, purporting to be signed by Eliza O'Brien, to Eliza M.
O'Brien, one of the plaintiffs. This deed appears to have been
made between Eliza O'Brien, in the county of Wexford, Ireland, as grantor, and Eliza Mercy O'Brien, the wife of Philip
O'Brien, as grantee. It is expressed to be in consideration of
the sum of one dollar. It grants all the right, title, and interest of the grantor in and to certain tracts of land therein
described, which belonged to Edward Hanrick, deceased,
including that in controversy. It professes to have been
signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of two witnesses,
of whom one was Francis Ruttledge, a justice of the peace of
the county of Wexford, who certifies that Elizabeth O'Brien,
personally known to him to.be the individual described in,
and who executed, the deed, personally came before him and
acknowledged its execution. Martin O'Brien, the other subscribing witn6ss, makes an affidavit that he knew Eliza O'Brien,
the individual described in the document, and that he was
present, and saw her sign, seal, and dE wver it as her act and
deed, which is certified on the deed by the consul of the United
States at Dublin. It also appears from the endorsement on

IANRICK v. PATRICK.
Opinion. of the Court.

the deed that it has been duly recorded in the various counties
in which the land lies.
It is stated in the bill of exceptions that "upon the face of
said deed it appeared that wherever the name of the grantor
was mentioned in the body of said deed, the name, as 6riginally written, was Elizabeth O'Brien, and that a portion of
said name had been scratched or erased so as to read Eliza
O'Brien, of which changes no note of explanation or emendation appeared in said deed."
When the deed was offered, the defendant objected to its
introduction in evidence for the following reasons: 1st. Because it had been impeached as a forgery by the affidavit of
Wharton Branch, one of the intervenors, who filed his affidavit to that effect on the 4th of April, 1883. 2d. Because
the deed did not purport to be the deed of Elizabeth O'Brien,
nor to vest title in the grantee, Eliza Mi. O'Brien, to hold as
her separate property. 3d. Because of the unexplained
changes apparent on the face of the deed. The court over-ruled-the objections, but before the deed was read in evidence
to the jury, the plaintiffs offered preliminary proof to the
court to prove the execution of the instrument as at common
law, and a witness was called and sworn who testified to the
court that "the grantor in said deed and the subscribing witnesses all reside in Ireland; that he was acquainted with the
handwriting of Francis Ruttledge, one of the subscribing
witnesses to said deed, and -that he believed the said Francis
Ruttledge to have signed the same as subscrifing witness
thereto." Evidence was also given to the court tending to
rebut said statement, and in the further progress of the ca~e
before the jury evidence was introduced by the plaintiffs tending to show that Elizabeth O'Brien and Eliza O'Brien were
one and the same person. Evidence was also introduced tending to rebut the alleged fact. Plaintiffs then 'proposed to
prove by the deposition of Philip O'Brien that no consideration was paid for said conveyance, and that the same was
intended as a gift to his wife, Eliza M. O'Brien. To the
admission of this testimony the defendant objected, because
the deed, being upon its face a deed for valuable consideration

OCTOBER TERM, 1886,
Opinion of the Court.

made to a married woman during coverture, was in law a
deed to the community, and subject to the sole control and
disposition of the husband, and a trust in favor of a separate
right could not at law be engrafted upon it by parol testimony.
These objections were overruled by the court, and the testimony was admitted.
We are of opinion that these rulings of the court were correct, on the supposition that the plaintiffs were properly put
- upon proof of the genuineness of the deed, irrespective of the
certificate from.the record. The proof of execution, by proof
of the handwriting of the subscribing witness, was sufficient.
.The objection founded upon the supposed erasures was fully
met by testimony as to the identity between Elizabeth
O'Brien and Eliza O'Brien. The only erasure appearing, being
a change from one name to the other, was sufficiently explained by the proof of identity. At any rate, the presumption was that the erasure was made before the execution of
the deed.
ittle v. e'rndon, 10 Wall. 26. The consideration of the deed being one dollar was merely nominal. JJt.z
. v. The .ational Xfetrocolitani Bank, 111 U. S. 722. And
while it appears to be well established law in Texas that
property purchased during the marriage, whether the conveyance be to the husband or wife, is p'ima faeie community
property, _,Mygins v. Johnson, 20 Texas, 389, S. C2 70 Amn.
Dec. 394, that rule only holds where the purchase is made
with community funds, and this presumption may be rebutted
by proof that the purchase was intended for the wife. Dunh'vn v. Chatthar, 21 Texas, 241, 244; S. C. 73 Am. Dec. 228.
As in this case the consideration was nominal only, and the
deed made to the wife, the presumption is that it was intended
to vest the title in her as separate property.
The remaining questions, wl:-h we deem it important to
notice, arise upon the title claimed by the intervenors, Branch
and Sargent. They are-material also in the controversy between the plaintiff and the original defenaiant, as the latte"
was entitled to defeat the plaintiff's recovery by showing an
outstanding legal title in any other parties. To sustain this
claim of title, the defehdant and the intervenors introduced,

ELANRICK v. PATRICK.
Opinion bf the Court.

first, a power of attorney, dated May 16, 1870, purporting to
be executed by James Hanrick, John Hanrick, and Elizabeth
O'Brien to Philip O'Brien. This power of attorney granted
power and authority to Philip O'Brien, on behalf of the other
parties, to recover their -interest in the estate of Edward Ilanrick, and for that purpose to do all such acts, and take such
proceedings, and use all such lawful ways and means as he
should deem necessary to assert and establish their right. It
also contained the following clause: "And also for and on
behalf and in the names of us, and as our acts and deed, to
make, sign, seal, execute, and deliver all such agreements, contracts, leases, conveyances, and assurances, with all usual and
reasonable covenants therein, on our part, of all and any part
of said messuages, tenements, premises, estate, and effects, as
shall be found necessary or expedient."
Professing to act under this power of attorney, Philip
O'Brien executed a deed in the names of ,his principals, on
February 1, 1878, to William Jenkins, Ji., in consideration of
one dollar and other valuable considerations, conveying all the
right, title, and interest of his principals in the real estate belonging to them as heirs of Edward Hanrick. On the same
(lay, William Jenkins, Jr., the grantee in that deed, conveyed
the same interest to Eliza M. O'Brien, the wife of Philip.
O'Brien. On the 'same day, Eliza 11. O'Brien, wife of Philip
O'Brien, in her own right, her husband joining in the conveyance, in consideration of one dollar and other valuable considerations, granted to John B. Sargent, one of the intervenors,
"one undivided half of all my right, title, and interest in 'and
to the following described lands, situated in the State of
Texas, the said land being the same this day conveyed to me
by William Jenkins, Jr." This deed contained covenants that
the grantor is "lawfully seized of an interest in fee simple of
the granted premises aforesaid; that they are free from all encumbrances by me.incurred, and that I have good right to sell
and convey the same as aforesaid, and that I will, and my
heirs, executors, and administrators shall, warrant and defeid
the same to the said grantee, and to his heirs and assigns forever, against the lawful claims and demands of all persons."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 14th of February, 1878, Philip O'Brien, acting for
himself and his wife, Eliza M. O'Brien, and for James Hanrick, John Hanrick, and Elizabeth .O'Brien, the heirs of Edward Hanrick, deceased, in consideration of one thousand
dollars to be paid by John B. SaTgent, conveyed to him in fee
simple an undivided one half interest in and to all the estate
of Edward Hanrick, deceased, to which the grantors were entitled, their interest therein being described as three fourths
thereof. This deed contained covenants "that our said intkret
in the property and premises are free and clear of all and
every incumbrance, and that we, &c., will warrant and defend
the same," &C. A similar deed, on the same date, was made
in the name of the same grantors to Wharton Branch, conveying an undivided one fourth interest in and to all the estate of
Edward Hanrick, deceased, to which the grantors were entitled. It was also shown that Eliza M. O'Brien, in the years
1877 and 1878, had acquired the title of Nicholas Hanrick,
Ellen HTanrick, and HonoraiHanrick, children and heirs at law
of James Hanrick, a brother of Edward Hanrick. On the
11th of May, 1878, Elizabeth O'Brien, by the name of Eliza
O'Brien, executed a deed -conveying all her right, title, and
interest in the estate of her deceased brother, Edward, to Eliza
Mt. O'Brien, the wife of Philip O'Brien, being the same deed
already referred to in a previous part of this opinion. It is
conceded that John Hanrick and, James Hanrick, brothers of
Edward Hanrick, who joined in the power of attorney to
Philip O'Brien, dated M ay 16, 1870, had both died, John Hanrick in 1870, and James Hanrick in 1875, and before PFilip
O'Brien executed any conveyance of the property as their attorney in fact. As to therh and their heirs or assigns, of
course, the power of attorney was thereby revoked.
The deed from Philip O'Brien to Branch, dated February
14, 1878, and the deed to Sargent of the same date, were also
ineffectual as to Eliza If. O'Brien, his wife, for whom he had
no authority to act at all. They were also void as to Elizabeth O'Brien, because the conveyances were not authorized by
the power of attorney, even if the latter was not revoked as
to her also by the death of her brothers, with whom she had

HANRICK v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

joined in its execution., Equally unwarranted was the deed
from Philip O'Brien to Jenkins, dated Febiuary 1, 1878, and
the conveyance by JenkLns to Eliza O'Brien of the same date.
O'Brien's authority under the power of attorney from his principals was to recover their estate for them, and not to give it
away. The intervenors, however, rely upon the operation of
the covenant of warranty contained in the deeds to John B.
Sargent of February 1, 1878, made by Eliza M1. O'Brien, in
conjunction with her husband, Philip O'Brien, claiming that it
operated to convey her-title subsequently acquired under the
deed from Eliza, O'Brien, her' mother-in-law, dated May 11,
1878. The covenant' of warranty in the deed to Sargent, however, relates only to the premises granted, which the grantors
agree to warrant and defend, and the premises granted are
described as "one undivided half of all my right, title, and
interest in and to the following described lands," and cfnnot,
therefore, operate as an estoppel preventing the grantors from
asserting any subsequently acquired title. The conveyance
and the covenants are, both confined to the right, title, and
interest 'Iwhich Eliza M. O'Brien had at the date of the deed,
expressly referred to and described in the depd of February 1,
1878, as the interest conveyed by the deed from Jenkins.
There is no recital in the deed to estop her as to the character
of her title or the -quantum of interest intended to be conveyed
within the rule laid down by this court in 'an .Renssalea v.
Kearney, 11 How. 297. In the absence of such recital, a covenant of general warranty, where the estate granted is the
present interest and title of the grantor, does not operate as'
an estoppel to pass a subsequently acquired title.
The rule on that point seems well stated by Mr. Rawle,
Covenants for Title, 4th ed., 393, in the following language:
"Where the deed, although containing general covenants for
title, does not on its face purport to convey an indefeasible
estate, but only the right, title, and interest of the grantor, in
cases where those covenants are held not to assure a perfect
title, but to be limited and restrained by the estate conveyed, the
doctrine of estoppel has been considered not to apply; in other'
words, although the covenants are as a general rule invested with

