OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

ENFIELD v. JORDAN.
-ERRIoZ TO THE CIRCUIT COURT Ob THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 24, 1656.-Decided January 10, 188T.

In Illinois an incorporated "town " and an incorporated "village" are one
and the same thing. Welch v. Post, 99 IIl. 471, overruled; and Martin v.
-People,87 Ill. B24, followed.
The provision in the act of February 24, 1869, of the legislature of Illinois,
giving authority to "any village, city, county, or township organized
under the township organization law, or any other law of the state,
along or near the route of the railway" therein mentioned, "to subscribe
to the stock of the railroad company, or make donations to it," applies
to a town along or near the route.
The proviso in the clause of the constitution of Illinois regarding municipal
subscriptions to the stock of, or donations or loan of credit to, railroads
or private corporations, applies to donations as well as to subscriptious
to stock.
When a question in a certificate of division Is stated in broad and indefinite
terms, which admit of one answer under one set of circumstances, and
of a different answer under another set of circumstances, this court
must regard it as immaterial to the decision of the case.
The pendency cf a suit relating to the validity of negotiable paper not 3t
due is not constructive notice to subsequent holders thereof before
maturity; and this general rule cannot be changed by state laws or decisions, so as to affect the rights of persons not residing and not being
within the state.
In Illinois the making the place of payment of a municipal bond at a place
which is not the office of the treasurer of the munleipality does not
affect the validity of the bond, or charge the holder of such a bond,
being negotiable and not yet matured, with notice of judicial proceedings between a previous holder -nd the municipality so as to work an
estoppel.

This was an action at law to recover the amount of coupons
cut from bonds not yet matured, issted by the plaintiff in
error, a town in Illinois, and held by the defendant in error.

Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated inthe opinion of the -court.
MAIr. CharlesI

Paton.for plaintiff in error.

M r. T. C. M3"athter for defendant in error.

ENFIELD v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTiCE ]BnAmLnY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by 0. N. Jordan against the town of
Enfield to recover the amount of twenty-two interest coupons
for fifty dollars each, made by the town on the 1st of January,
1871, and payable in January and July, 1881, 1882, and 1883.
The defendant pleaded non-assumpsit, and on the trial a jury
was waived, and the cause was tried by the court, consisting
of the circuit and district judges. A finding of the facts was
made, and the judges being divided in opinion as to certain
questions of law arising thereon, judgment was rendered in
favor of the plaintiff, in accordance with the opinion of the
presiding judge. The principal question of law was, whether
an "incorporated town," as Enfield was, had pow*er to make
a donation of its bonds to the railroad company. Questions
of estoppel were also raised, as hereafter noticed.
The facts found by the court, in accordance with an agreed
statement presented by the parties, are substantially as follows:
1. That the town of Enfield was incorporated under an act
of the General Assembly of the state of Illinois, approved
March 15th, 1869. This act is set out in full, and is entitled
"An act to extend the corporate powers of the town of Enfield." It is an ordinary town charter, making the town a
corporation by the name and style of "The Town of Enfield."
Its territorial limits were then prescribed, being one mile
square, and the usual corporate powers were conferred. A
town council, consisting of five trustees, together with a police
magistrate, a treasurer, and a town constable, were directed to
be elected annually, on the 1st Monday of May. The powers
given to the town council were similar to those usually conferred upon municipal bodies; as, the power to levy and collect taxes; to appoint a clerk, supervisor of streets, and other
officers; to appropriate moneys to pay the debts and expenses
of the town; to make regulations for securing the general
health; to provide a supply of water; to make side-walks,
and to open, grade, pave, and repair streets; to establish markets; to regulate the public grounds; to organize a fire department; to regulate the police, &c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The findings next set forth at large an act of assembly of
Illinois, incorporating the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, approved February 25th, 1867. This act authorized the
compaAiy to construct a railroad from a point on the Illinois
Central Railroad, by way of Fairfield in Wayne County, to
the Ohio River. The route designated would naturally pass
in the neighborhood of Enfield, and the railroad, when built,
did pass through the town. The seventh section authorized
counties through which the road might pass to donate to the
company any sum not exceeding $100,000, and to give its
bonds therefor. The ninth section authorized any town in
any county under township organization to donate not to exceed $30,000; but such donation was payable only by taxation, no authority being given to issue bonds. This section
related not to incorporated towns, but to townships forming
the territorial subdivisions of counties. The eleventh section
authorized "any incorporated city or town" through or by
which the railroad might run to make donations not exceeding $10,000, on the same terms, propositions, conditions, and
under the same restrictions, as provided for townships.
The findings next set forth an amendment to the railroad
charter, approved February 24th, 1869, by the tenth section of
which, authority was given to "any village, city, county, or
township organized under the township organization law, or
any other law of the state, along or near the route of the
railway, . . . or anywise interested therein," to subscribe
to the stock of the railroad company, or make donations to it
to aid in the construction and equipment of its road, provided
such subscription or donation was sanctioned by an election of
thepeople. This section gave power to issue bonds for such
subscriptions or donations; but-towns are not included therein

by name.
The court further found that, on the 1st of January, 1811,
the town of Enfield issued and delivered to the officers of the
Springfield and Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, a company formed by consolidation with the Illinois SoutheasternRailway Company, the bonds and coupons now in controversy,
copies of which are attached; that said bonds and coupons were

ENFIELD

e. JORDAN.

Opinion of the Court.

issued by said town by virtue of the power (if any) contained
in the acts aforesaid, approved February 25, 1807, and Februar~v 24, 1869; that afterwards said bonds and coupons came to.
the lplaintiff through mesne transfers from said Springfield and
Illinois Railway Company ; and that the bonds were registered
in the state auditor's office.
The finding.s further set forth copies of the order of the town
council of Enfield, made June 10th, 180, appointing judges of
election to be held in the town on the 11th of the same month,
and a copy of the returns of the vote at said election for the
purpose of determining whether the town would donate the
sun of $7000 to the Springfield and Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, the result of which was- for donation 64 votes,
agrainst it, 1 vote; and that this was the only election held in
relation to said donation.
The court further found that at the June term, 1880, of that
court, judgment for the plaintiff against the defendant was
rendered upon coupons then due, dotaahed from the same
bonds from which the coupons now sued on were taken. It
was also adrnitted by the plaintiff that the Enfield town bond
represented by Post in the case of !elc/V et al. v. Post, 99
Ill. 471, was one of the series of seven bonds in controversy in
this suit, but as to which bond it was the plaintiff disclaimed
any knowledge.
Upon these facts the judges who tried the cause have certified a difference of opinion upon the following questions, to
wit :
1st. Whether the incorporated town of Enfield had power
to vote and issue the bonds and coupons in controversy under
any of the provisions of the acts above specified.
2dly. More particularly, whether said town had said power
under the I Oth section of the amendment of the railway company's charter, approved February 24, 1869.
3dly. Whether said town was not estopped from further
defence by the litigation theretofore had between it and plaintiff.
4tiily. In case there was power in the town under said laws
to vote and issue said bonds and coupons, whether one of said

OCTOBER TERM, i886.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, and the coupons thereto b~longing, were void in the
hands of plaintiff in this suit by reason of one Post having
litigated it in the state courts of Illinois.
1. As to the first question, it is clear that the town derived
no authority to issue the bonds from anything contained in its
own charter. But, by the 11th section of the act incorporating
the railway company, power is given to any incorporated city
or town through or by which the railroad might run to make
donations to the compan.y, and to pay the same by taxes
assessed by the county clerk at the request of the company.
No authority, however, was given to issue bonds in payment
of such donations. The 10th section of the amending act,
approved February 24, 1869, contains the only authority which
gna be invoked for that purpose. But that section does not
mention towns by name. It declares "that any village, city,
county, or township . . . along or near the route of said
railway or its branches, or that are in anywise interested
therein, may in their corporate capacity subscribe to the stock
of said company, or make donations to said company, to aid in
constructing and equipping said railway;" with a proviso for
holding an election on the subject, and authorizing the issue of
bonds in payment, "said bonds to be signed, in case .of a village, by the'chairman of the board of trustees thereof ; in case
of a city, by the mayor thereof," &c. The town of Enfield is
not a township, nor a county, nor a city. If it is within the
purview of the act it must be because it is a village. The question then arises, is the incorporated town of Enfield a village
within the meaning of the act?
This question depends upon the use of words "town" and
"village" in the laws of Illinois. The general and popular
distinction between them in English speech will not carry us
far towards a solution. The dicti6naries tell us that the word
signifies any walled collection of houses. (Johnson.)
"townw"
But that is its antique meaning. By modern use, it is said to
be applied to an undefined collection of houses, or habitations; also to the inhabitants; emphatically to the metropolis.
(Richardson.) Again, a town is any collection of houses
Larger than a village ; or any number of houses to which be-

ENFIELD v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

longs a regular market, and which is not a city. (Johnson,
Webster, Ogilvie.) The same. authorities define a village as a
small collection of houses in the country, less than a town.'
According to this distinction, the law, in giving power to "any
village, city, county, or township " to make donations and
issue bonds to the railroad company, confers thd power upon
bodies of higher and lower degrees of municipal organization
than towns, and leaves them out. " This is an incongruity
which we can hardly suppose was intended. The Supreme
Court of Illinois, in a recent decision against the power, to
which we shall. presently refer, is obliged to say, "'Why incorporated towns were omitted in that act cannot now b&
known."
In seeking aid from collateral sources, we shall probably
derive more -light from the political use of the terms "town"
village" in this country, than from general lexicography.
and "1
In New England and New York, towns are the political units
of territory, into which the county is subdivided, and answer,
1)ol'tically, to parishes and hundreds in England, but are vested
with greater powers of local -government. In Delaware the
counties are divided into hundrceds, the wor..1s "town" and "village" being indiscriminately applied to collections of houses.
In Marvland and most of the Solithern States, the political
unit of territory is the county, though this is sometimes
divided into parishes and election districts for limited purposes.
The word "town" is used in a broad sense to include all collections of houses from a city down to a village. Thus, in
Virginia, by an act passed in 1778, on the death or removal of
"ally one of the trustees and directors of the several towns
within this state, not incorporated," provision is made for
filling the vacancy; by act of 1793, "electors of towyns
entitled to, representation in the House of Delegate I' are
authorized to vote at their respective court-houses for representatiy es in Congress; by the Reviscd Code of 1819, " trustees of
ihu respective unincorporated towns of this Connnonwealth"
aro Dmnpowcredl to make by-laws to prohibit horse racing in
the streets of the town; by the Revised Code of 1849, in the
chapter entitled "Of Towals," the council and board of trus-

OCTOBER TERM1,

i886.

Qpiniou of the Court.

tees of any town, heretofore or hereafter established, may
cause to be made a survey and plan of the town, showing each
lot, public street, &c., to lay out, alter, improve, and light the
streets, and to adopt various municipal regulations relating to
public grounds, markets, health, nuisances, supply of water,
fire departments, &c. Most of these towns were nothing but
villages. The close connection between Virginia and Kentucky and the early settlement of Illinois renders this use of
the word "town " in the inother state apposite to the question
under consideration.
In New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, M[ichigan, and
Illinois, the subdivisions of a county, answering to the towns
of I1ew England and New York, are called townships, though
the word "town " is also applied to them in Illinois. In these
states the words "town" and "village" are indiscrhninately
applied to large collections of houses less than a city.
These results are gathered from an examination of the laws
and constitutions of the states named; and we should have no
hesitation in saying that,'in Illinois, an incorporated town and
an incorporated village were one and the same thing, were it
not for the decision of the Supreme Court of that state to the
contrary in the case of 1Telcb v. Post, 99 Ill. 471, already
alluded to, which decision was made in relation to the identical
bonds in question in this suit.
That case arose upon a bill filed in the Circuit Court of White
County by citizens, property owners, and tax-payers of the town
of Enfield against the village and county collectors of taxes
and the unknown holders of the bonds, to restrain the collection of taxes for their payment, on the ground that there was
no authority of law to issue them. The bill prayed that the
bonds might be declared null and void in whosesoever hands
they might be. A decree was taken for confessed in April
tetm, 1877; but, at the October term, 1879, one Post, of New
York, presented a petition, stating that he was the dwner of
one of the bonds, and praying that the cause might be reinstated, which was done. The cause was then tried upon an
agreed statement of the.facts (much the same as in the present
case), and the Circuit Court decided against the plaintiffs, and

ENFIELD v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

dismissed the bill. This decree was reversed by the Supreme
Court in June, 181. The ground of this judgment, as stated
in the opinion of the court, was, that the town of Enfield had
no authority to issue the bonds; that no such authority was
given in the charter of the town;i because none was expressed,
and the making of donations to railway corporations, and issuing interest-bearing bonds in payment thereof, is not among
the usual or implied powers possessed by-imunicipal corporations; that it was not given by the act of 1867, incorporating
the railway company, because .the donations authorized by
that act to be made by incorporated cities or towns, were
directed to be paid by taxation, and no authority was given
to issue bonds; that it wos not given by the amending act of
F'bruary 24, 1809, because that act only gives the power to
villages, cities, counties and townships, and does not menticu
incorporated towns, and the act cannot be extended by implication. The court says: "Keeping in mind, as must be done,
[that] there is no implied authority in municipal corporations
to make donations to railway companies, and to issue interestbearing bonds in payment, it must appear there is express
enabling legislation to that effect before municipal corporations can properly assume to exercise such extraordinary powers. No such authority is to be found anywhere, in any public or private law of this state, applicable to the town of Enfield, at the time that corporation undertook to and did issue
the bond held and owned b:m.the respondent, and having been
issued without authority of law, such bond constitutes no
valid obligation that can be enforced against the municipality."
Two justices, Dihckey and Sheldon, dissented from this
opinion, and adhered to an earlier ruling of the court made in
1877, in the case of _Martin v. The Peoyle, 87 Ill. 52 , in which
it was adjudged that the terms "towns and. villages" are used
synonymously in the laws of Illinois. The proceeding in that
case was instituted by the collector of Cook County, for the
collection of certain special assessments levied by the town of
Lake upon the real estate within its bounds, the mode of collection pursued being that pointed out in article IX of the act
entitled "An act to provide for the incorporation of cities and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

villages," approved April 10th, 1872, conferring upon all cities,
towns, and villages.which might adopt it (as all w.ere author. ized to do) municipal pbwers of a very comprehensive character.
. It was contended on the part of the defendants that, as to
-towns, the act was unconstitutional And- void, because "towns*'
are not mentioned in the title,14t.oly "cities "-and "villages."
The Supreme Court of 'lthioii jo.cweer, did not concur in this
view, but held that an incorporated town and incorpbrated
village, in the laws of tha. state, are one anC- the same thing.
The court say: "The word ' town,' as found in our statutes, is
not always used in the same sense. In the act relating to
township orgarfization, it is provided that counties adopting
that system for the management of county affairs shall be
divided 'into towns, (sect. 5, page 1007, Rev. Stat. 1874,j con-.
sisting, generally, of a township according to the 'gvernment
surveys: These towns are a species of municipal incorporations, and constitute an integral part of the county, and are
closely interwoven with the management of couity affairs. In
the statute found in ReVised Statutes of 1845, page 111, the
word ' town' is used in a very different sense. It there plainly
means a village, or a small collection of residences; and by that
'act it is provided that the inhabitants of any such town may,
under certain circumstances, 'become incorporated for the
-better regulation .& their internal police,' under the management of a board of trustees, with capacity to sue and be sued,
to.keep a recqrd of their proceedings, and with power to make
by-laws and 5-dinanc&, to prevent nuisances, to prohibit gainbling end other disorderly conduct, to prevent fast driving and
indecent exhibitions, to license public shows, to regulate markets, sink wells, to keep op-en and repair streets, to protect the
town from fires, to levy And collect taxes, to enforce their
ordinances, &c. Such an organization, in our statutes, was
formerly always called an .' incorporated town,' but in our later
statutes they are sometimes called villages, and their trustees
are called village trustees. An examination of the special 'charter of the town of Lake, (4th vol. Special Laws of 1869, page
324,) shows it to be a municipal corporation of the latter character, and, in so far as its organization under that' charter is

ENFIELD v. JORDAN.
. Opinion of the Court.

concerned, it is merely. an incorporated town, or, in other
words, 'an incorporated village.' Before that charter was
enacted, the town of Lake was merely a'municipal corporation
under the laws relating to township, organization. By this
charter, the inhabitants of that town took another form of corpotate existence, and became, also, in contemplation of law,
what, in the Revised Statutes of 1871, is known as a village."
The court then, after enumerating the powers conferred by the
town charter, add: "All the powers are of the kind usually
conferred upon cities or villages, and of the character conferred
upon cities or villages by the general law of 1872, of which
this article 9 is a part. Before the adoption of our present
Constitution, many special charters, conferring like powers,
were granted by the General Assembly, and-in most cases such
corporations are called towns, but in some cases they are called
villages; but the character and nature of these corporations
whether called, in their charters, towns or villages, were in all
cases substantially 'the same." After referring to a number of
these charters, the titles of which ran, "An- act to incorporate
the village of A., or B.," but in the body of whic the several
communities were called villages and towns indiscriminately,
the court concludes as follows: "We, therefore, hold that the
town of Lake was, and is, a village in the sense in which that
word is used in § 168 of the general act of 1872 relating to,
cities and villages; that it, therefore, is one of the municipal
incorporations which, by that section, are authorized to avail
themselves of the provisions of article 9 of that act as an
amendm-nt to their charters."
We have quoted more fully from the judgment in this case,
because it is not onlV directly in point, but it §hows historically
the use .of the terms town and village in the legislation
of Illinois. Its bearing on the present case is enhanced by the
fact that the towns of Lake and Enfield were incorporated at
the same session of the legislature, and invested with like
powers and form of organization.
Both of the cases to which we have referred arose after the
bonds and coupons now in controversy were issued, and neither
of them can control our decision upon the rights of the parties
VOL. cx---44

690

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

here, any further than as they address themselves to our judgment upon the true construction of the law; and we feel compelled to say that we regard the views expressed in the case
of 1l'fartin v. The People as the most sound and convincing of
the two. It seems to us that the legislature of Illinois, in the
act for the incorporation of cities and villages, intended'to
avoid hereafter the use of the ambiguous word "town," as applied to the smaller class of incorporated municipalities, and
to designate them by the single term of "vi l lag e." This conclusion is, on the whole, so obvious that we do not hesitate to
adopt it, and to hold that the town of Enfield is a village
within the meaning of the amending act of February 24th,
1869. We may add, as a strong corroboration of what 'has
been said, that in the 9th section of that act the word "town"
is used indiscriminately with the word "village."' The language is: "It shall be lawful for the incorporate authorities
of any incorporate city or village through which said railway
shall be located to donate or lease to said railway company, as
a right of way, the right to lay a single or double track through
said city or incorporated village, or any portion of the same,
or any street or highway, that the said railway company shall
elect for that purpose, except at the option of the said railway
company and corporate authorities of suck towns or cities."
An additional point, however, is made in relation to the authority of the town to issue the bonds under consideration.
Supposing that such authority is found in the acts referred to,
it is still contended that it was abrogated by the constitution
of the state adopted on the 2d day of July, 1870. By a section of that constitution it isdeclared that ' no county, city,
town, township, or other municipality, shall ever become sub,scriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation to or loan its credit in aid of such
corporation: Provided, however, That, the adoption of this
article shall not be construed as affecting the right of such
municipality to make such subscriptions where the same have
been authorized, under existing laws, by a vote of the people
of such municipalities prior to such adoption." It is urged
that Whilst the proviso of this section saves the power to make

-

ENFI-ELD v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court

subscriptions to the capital stock of private 'corporations, it
does not save the power to makedonations. to them. We did
itrouth ,A so decide in the case of Town of o'ordv. Po
Ings Bank, 92 U. S. 625 ; but in the subsequent case of _Fairjfeld v. County of Gallatin, 100 U. S. 4*7, that decision was
overruled in deference to several decisions of th4 Supreme
Court of Illinois to the effect that donations as well as subscriptions were within the meaning of the proviso. The authorities are collected in the latter case, and need not be repeated here. We held; as we had often held before, that this
court will follow the construction which has been uniformly
given by the highest court of a state to its constitution and
laws.
To the first and second questions, therefore, our answer is,
that the town of Enfield had power undor the 10th section of
the amending act approved February 24th, 1869, to vote and
issue the bonds and coupons in controversy.
The third question is, whether the town was n6t estopped
from further defence by the previous litigation in this [the circuit] court upon the pleadings and facts stipulated and judgment rendered therein? The stipulation and finding on which
this question is raised is as follows, to wit: "That at the June
term, .D.1880, of this court judgment for the plaintiff against
the defendant herein was rendered upon coupons then due,
detached from the same bonds from which the coupons in
evidence in this suit were taken." The coupons on which said
former judgment was iendered were different coupons from,
those involved in. the present suit. This. suit, therefore, was
brought upon a different cause of action from that upon which
the former suit was brought. Whether the same issues were,
raised aiid passed upon in that suit which are raised in this,
the stipulation does not inform us. The question is too general in its terms to admit of a pre'eise answer. If the defend-'
ant sought to set up in this suit some .new defence, which was
not made in the former oae, andT" not necessarily decided
therein, it should have been a.lowed to-do sb, under the ruling
of this court in Crorwell v. &e County, 94 U, S. 351, 354.
But we are left in entire ignorance- on the subject. As no

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

proper answer can be given to a question stated in such broad
and indefinite terms,'which admits of one answer under one
set of ciciumstances, and of a different answer under another,
we must necessarily pass it by as immaterial to the decision of
,the case in this court.
The fourth and last-question propounded by the judges 'below is, whether one of the bonds and the coupons thereto belonging are void in the hands of the plaintiff in this suit by
"reason of one Post having litigated it in the state courts of
Ilin6 is? The finding on which this question is based is as
follows, to wit: "It is admitted by the plaintiff in this suit
that the Enfield town -bond represented by Post in the case of
Teloh et al. v. Post, 99 Ill. 471, was one of the series of
seven bonds now. in controversy in this suit; but in making
said admission plaintiff disclaims any knowledge of which one
it was,'or any connection with said suit." It is rather a singular proceeding to refer this court to a volume of reports to'eke
'out the record on which it is to pass judgment. The reported
case is not even printed in the record before us, and we do not
feel called upon to give it a.very critical examination in refer.ence to the point now raised,,and might well refuse to consider it at all. It consists merely of the opinion of the court
atr~ady referred to and commented on. The nature and object
of the suit and the principal proceedings had therein have
already been stated. For the purpose in hand, it is sufficient
to remark that the bond held by Post was not matured, and
will not mature till the year 1891, and, therefore, a decree
against Post has no binding effect on a subsequent holder of
the bond purchasing the same before maturity and without
notice. To have made the decree effectual against the bond
itself, Post should have been required to produce it in court,
in order that it might have been cancelled. If he parted with
the bond peAding suit, it would inake no difference. The subject of notice by Us pendens in relation to negotiable securities
was considered by this court in the cases of J ar'ren' County v.
-fararcy, 97 U. S. 96, and Car'roll County v. Smith, 111 U. S.
556, and needs no further discussion. The general rule announced in those Qases is, that the pendency of a suit relating

ENFIELD v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

to the validity of negotiable paper not yet due is not constructive notice to subsequent holders thereof before maturity.
This general rule cannot be changed by state laws or decisions
so as to affect the rights of persons not residing and not being
within the state, any more than publication - of suit can be
made constructive service of process upon such persons. Rights
to real property and personal chattels within the jurisdiction
of the court, and subject to its power, may be affected by li.'pendens, but not those acquired by the transfer of negotiable
securities or by the sale of articles in market overt in theusual
course of trade. See Brooklyn v. Inszrance Co., 99 U. S. 362;
Emire v; Da Ungto, 101 U. S. 87; Po/na v. Bowler, 107 U. S.
529, 545.
But it is contended by .he plaintiff in error that the bonds
on their face show an illegality as to the place of payment
sufficient to put a purchaser upon inquiry, and, therefore, to
subject him to notice of the proceedings by which the bond
held by Post was declared void. This argument is based upon
the fact that the bonds are payable not at the office of the
treasurer of the town of Enfield, but "at the First National
Bank of Shawneetown, Illinois," the principal town in the
adjoining county, about thirty miles distant, and the terminus
of the railroad passing through Enfield. As the statute which
gave the authority to issue the bonds is silent as to the place
of their payment, we are at a loss to see how the place, named
therein can have the effect supposed. Counsel admit in argument that it does-not render the bonds void, but insist that the
town had no power to make them payable at any other place
than the" office of, the town treasurer. For this they cite
7Ye People on the relation.of the Peoria and Oquawka, Railroad Cmpany V.The County of Tazewell and its Supervisorfs,
22 Ill. 147; City of Pekin v. Reinolds, 31 ll. 529; and &Serlock et al. v. The Tillage of Winnetka, 68 I1.530. In thes6
cases, it is true, the Supreme Court of illinois held that a municipal corporation cannt lawfully make its obligations payable
at any other place than the office of its treasurer; but the
court also held that the making of them payable elsewhere
does not affect their validity. The case last cited was a bill by

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Couxt.

tax-payers to enjoin the collection of taxes levied to pay interest on certain bonds of the village, the validity of which was
questioned. They had been issued to pay for erecting a building for educational purposes, which- the court held the village
had no power to erect. The question of the place of payment
of the bonds only came up incidentally, as one of the argumeiits
of counsel used against their payment. On this point the
court say: "The objection that the bonds are illegally made
payable at a bank in Chicago does not invalidate them, as was
held in Jnolonso v. Stairk County, 24 Ill. 75. The* gi'eement
to pay at that place is void, but the balance of the coupons
and bonds are not rendered invalid for that reason. In paying,
the interest, the treasurer should not obey that agreement in
the bond, but pay it at the illage treasury. If he were to
deposit the money in the bank for the purpose, and it were
to break, or thP money should otherwise be lost, he and his
sureties would no doubt be liable for the loss growing out of
his illegal act in placing the money in a place unauthorized by
law." The court did not regard this as a ground for enjoining the collection of taxes; 14ut enjoined their collection upon
other grounds.
Now, giving to these cases all the effect due to them, we do
not see how the fact that the bonds and coupons of the town
of Enfield were made p ayabie at Shawneetown, can prejudice
a 7ona jde holder thereof, or charge him with notice of prior
proceedings against other parties who once held them.. The
most that can be said is, that a person purchasing the bonds
may be bound to know that the place named for payment
therein is not binding on the county, and that, though made
payable elsewhere, their legal place of payment is at the office
of the treasurer of Enfield. The question whether a municipal corporation, authorized to issue bonds, may, or may not,
make them payable at a place other than its own treasury,
(there being no statutory direction on the subject,) is one of
general jurisprudence, in reference to which the courts of Illinois take a particular view. Other courts take a different
view. There is nothing in the constitution of the miunicipal
bodies of that state, so far as this particular power is concerned,

ENFIELD v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

different from that of similar bodies in -other states. When
the .bonds of an Illinois municipality are offered for sale in the
market, and on their face are made payable at a different place
from the treasury of such municipality, even though it be conceded that a purchaser is bound to know that, by the jurispru.dence of, Illinois, the bond is legally payable at such treasury,
that is all he is bound to know. The same jurisprudence
informs him that the naming.of a ilifferent place for payment
does not affect their validity, nor the obligation of the municipality to pay them. At all events, we are of opinion that the,
place of payment named in the bond vhich was formerly in
the hands of Post, did not affect the present holder with notice
of the proceedings in. which Post was a party. Those proceedings are an estoppel against Post, even though, in our
judgment, the decision was based on an erroneous view of the
law; and they would be an estoppel against Jordan if he had:
notice of them when he took the bond. But there is no evidence that he had any such notice, and we think that the fact
of the bond being payable at a place where the town of Enfield
had no authority to make it payable'-a fact which it is
admitted does not affect its validity-was not, sufficient to
put Jordan on iniquiry. Though made payable in Shawneetown, it is legally payable at Enfield; and is as valid and binding on the town as if'it were i terms made payable there.
The answer to the fourth question, therefore, is, that one of
the bonds, and the coupons ihereto belonging, are not void in
the hands of the 'plaintiff by reason of Post having litigated
the bond in the state courts of Illinois.
Thejvdgrient of the Circuit Court is cffrmec.

