BORR v. CIIAPMAINX
Syllabus.

This ,was an appeal from an order' of the Circuit Court
remanding to a State Court a cailse removed thence to the'
Circuit Court. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.>'X.J. . Rouse and .t['. WTllFm Grantfor appellant.
.Ar. 17zoma s J;. e ames and -i.
Mm. Cn

Robert .Tott for appellees&

F Jus'ric WArTE delivered the opinion of the'court.

The order remanding this case is affirmed. A suit cannot
be removed from a State Court to a Circuit Court of the
United States under subsection 3 of § 639 of the Revised Statutes on the ground of "prejudice or local influence," unless all
the plaintiffs or all the defendants are citizens of the state i'
which the suit was brought, and of a state other than that of'
which those petitioning for the removal are citizens. Here it
appears that, Hancock, the plaintiff, on whose petition the
removal was had, is a citizen of New York, and Eliza Jane,
Holbrook and George Nicholson, two of the defendants, and
those principally interested in-the litigation, citizens of "Mississippi, while R. W. Holbrook and Richard Fitzgerald, the'other
defendants, are alone citizens of Louisiana, where the suit was
brought. These -Louisiana defendants are necessary parties to
the suit, but, according to the record, those who are citizens of
Mississippi are the real parties in interest.
Affirned.

BORER v. CHAPMAN.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued December 13, 14, 18SO.-Decided January 10, 187.

A, a citizen of New Jersey, recovered judgment in a civil action on a contract against B, a citizen of Minnesota, whose property and estate were
situated, principally, in California. B died leaving a will by which he
devised real estate and bequeathed legacies to various persons in Minne-

OCTOBER tERM,

1886.

Syllabus.
sota. The will was admitted to probate in Mfinnesota, and letters testa.
mentary thereon were issued to C and D. Ancillary proof of it was
then made in California, and letters testamentary thereon were issued to
D, who administered the estate in California in accordance with the
laws of that state, and distributed it according to the will, and rendered
a final account to the probate court in California, and was discharged by
that court. A did not present his claim for payment in California, and
has never been paid. He brought suit on it in Minnesota against C as
executor. C appeared and, among other defences, denied that he was or
ever had been executor. The court found that C had accepted the trust,
and entered judgment for A, on which judgment execution was awarded
de bonispropHis. C brought the judgment to this court by writ of error,
and died while it was pending here. His executor appeared, and on his
motion the judgment was reversed as erroneous in form, Smith v. ChapMan, 93 U. S. 41, and, the cause being remanded, the court on the previous
finding entered judgment for A, nuno pro tune, as of the date of the first
judgment. A, within twelve months from the date when the last judgment nunepro tune was ordered, commenced suit in Minnesota to recover
the amount of his judgment the statute of that state giving to the
unpaid creditors of a testator a right of action against legatees, provided
the action is allowed within one year from the time when the claim is established; and courts of Minnesota having settled that the claim must first
be established by judicial proceedings, and that the suit against the legatees must he brought within one year from the date of such establishment. Held:
(I) That the former judgment in this court concluded the executor of
C in this suit from contending that C had not accepted the trust as
executor.
(2) That A was not barred by the proceedings and decrees in California
from 'the prosecution of the suit.
(3) That he bad the right to follow into the hands of their ho ders in
Minnesota the assets of B which had been distributed by ordei of the
probate coutt in California.
(4) That there was nothing to interfere with that right, in the provision
of the Constitution respecting the faith to be given to judgments and
public acts of each state in every other state.
(5) T hat this action was not barred by the limitation in the Minnesota
statute.
Whether an order for entry of judgment nunc pro tzinc shall be made, is
matter of discretion with the court, to be exercised as justice may requirein view of the circumstances of the particular case; and it is a
proper exercise of that discretion when, by reason of the intervening
death of a.party; there would otherwise be a failure of justice for which
the other party fs not responsible.
The equity jurisdictipu of this court is independent of that conferred by
thd tat(slon their own courts, and can be affected only by the legislation
of Congress: ' .

BOREt

v. CIIAPMANoI5

Opinion of the Court.

For the purpose of a statute of limitations the date of the entry of a judgment nunc pro tune is the date of the order of such entry, and. not the
day as of which the judgment is ordered to take effect.

This was a bill in equity filed by the defendant in error,
complainant below, to enforce payment of a judgment rendered against one John Gordon in his lifetime out of assets
belonging to the estate of Gordon which had come into the'
possession of the various defendants, either as executors or
administrators, or as devisees-or legatees under his will. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
, "r.
IF. P. Clough, for appellants, cited: In re Gar'aud'8
Estate, 36 Cal. 277 ; Reynolds v. Brumagirm, 54 Cal. 254z ; In
'e Henry C. Iudson's Estate, 63 Cal. 4,54.

.M'. E. X. Wlson and ilk. Charles IF.HIoi-nor, for appellee,
cited: Smith v. Charrman, 93 U. S.41 ; Wfatkins v. Holman,
16 Pet. 25 ; .Xlontgornery v. Sawyer, 100 U. S. 571; Xacqkey
v. Coxe, 18 How. 100, 104; State v. Alverez, 7 La. Ann. 281;
Fishmongers v. Robinson, 3 C. B. 970; Mtatheson v. Grant,
2 How. 263, 282; 3fitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S. 621; Eoparte
XIorgan, 114 U. S.174 ; -May v. Xe Claire, 11 Wall. 217.
A Tr. XUsTFrc

MATrHws

delivered the opimon of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed on the 20th of August, 1879, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, by George A. Chapman, a citizen of the state of New
Jersey, executor of the last will and testament of Eunice
Chapman, deceased, against Felix A. Borer, administrator
with the will annexed of the estate of John Gordon, deceased,
Edson IR. Smith, executor of the last will and testament of
George D. Snow, deceased, Elizabeth Hewitt and Thomas P.
Hewitt, her husband, Harriet Cecilia Snow, Sarah Ann Powell,
and Georgiana Smith ; the defendants being all citizens of the,
state of Minnesota. The object and prayer of the bill were
to marshal the assets of the estate of John Gordon, deceased,
alleged to have been received by the defendants either as his

OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

representatives or legatees, for the purpose of applying them
to the payment bf a judgment recovered by the complainant
against George D. Snow, as executor of John Gordon. The
case was heard upon the pleadings and proofs, and a decree
rendered in favor of the complainant below, to reverse which
the defendants prosecute the present appeal.
The facts in the case on which the decree is predicated are
as follows: On January 4, 1864, George M. Chapman, executor of Eunice Chapman, recovered judgment in the Supreme
Court of the state of New York against John Gordon and
two others in a civil action founded on contract for the sum
.of $4759.80, damages and costs. On May 14, 1867, Gordon,
then a citizen of Minnesota, having his domicil in the county
of Le Sueur in that state, made and published his last will,
and within a few days thereafter died in that county. On
July 1, 1867, his will was duly presented to the probate court
of that county for proof and allowance by George D. Snow,
and was duly admitted to probate and record, and letters testamentary in the usual form were made out and recorded,
directed to Snow and Clark, his executors. By that will
Gordon made numerous bequests and devises, among which
was one of $30,000 in money to 'Harriet Cecilia Snow, wife of
George D. Snow; another of $6000 in money to Sarah Ann
Kniffen, now Sarah Ann Powell; another of a like amount to
Georgiana FIniffen, now Georgiana Smith; three small tracts
of land in Le Sueur County, Xinnesota, with certain personal
property then situated thereon, to MAargaret Elizabeth Hewitt,
and, in addition thereto, the sum pf $2000 to Margaret Elizabeth Hewitt and her heirs; and the residue of the estate, after
the payment of debts, funeral expenses, costs of administration, and legacies, to George D. Snow. The legatees resided
in Le Sueur County, Minnesota. Gordon had previously lived
in San Francisco, California, where nearly the whole of the
leftate was situated. The executors named in the will were
George D. Snow and Pomeroy D. Clark, the latter a resident
of San 'Francisco. In the bequests to the Misses Kniffen, and
the cash portion of that to Mrs. Hewitt and her heirs, it was
provided that the :money should be"paid into the hands of

BORER v. CHAPMA.N.
Opinion of the Qpurt.

George D. Snow, to be. held and- managed by'him as their
trustee for certain designated periods. It does not appear
from the records of the probate court of Le Sueur County that
either Clark or Snow ever accepted letters testamentary, or
took the oath, or gave the bond required from executors' by.
the statutes of Minnesota, or ever filed in that court any in-'
ventory of Gordon's estate, or ever did any other act in'respect to the estate under such letters.
After, proof of the will in Le Sueur County, Minnesota, a
properly authenticated copy of the same, together with the
.proof and allowance thereof, was forwarded to Clark in San
Francisco, who took such proceedings thereoii in the probate
court of San FrancisQo that the will was there admitted to
record, and letters. testamentary thereon issued to Clark solely
on August 5, 1867. Snow never in any manner appeared in
'the California proceedings, except to receive and receipt for
his legacy. Clark, as executor in California, took the usual,
and necessary proceedings under the laws of that state for the
eollection and distribution of the estate. An inventory and,
appraisement of the property were filed, and notice given by
publication to creditors to present their clMms to the executor
for payment. On INovember 5, 1868, Clark presented to the
probate court his final accounts as executor, with his petition
for their allowance, the hearing of which was set for November 17, 1868; and public notice given thereof in accordance
with thi local law. On December 10, 1868, the probate court
made its order allowing and confirming the accounts, on which
date Clark filed ,a further petition in the probate court, praying for a decree of distribution and a final order discharging
him from the office and trust of executor of Gordon's will.
The couimt thereon made an order calling on all persons interested in the estate of John Gordon to appear before the court
on January 11, 1869, to show cause why an order should not
be made distributing the residue of the estate to George D.
Snow, the residuary legatee. In pursuance thereof, and on
the date fixed for the hearing, the court made its final decree
of 'distribution, in which, among other things, it was ordered,
adjudged, and decreed that all the acts and proceedings of the

OCTOBER TERMI," 1886.
Opinion of tihe Court.

said executor, as reported to that court and appearing upon
the records thereof, should be and thereby were approved and
confirmed, and that the residue of the estate should be and
was thereby assigned to the said George D. Snow. On January 12, 1869, the court made its further and final order in the
proceedings, discharging Clark from the executorship, the Will
having been fully and completely executed to the satisfaction
of the court. Clark's accounts filed with the probate comt
show the payment of all the money legacies hereinbefore mentioned to the respective legatees prior to August 1, 1868. The
residue decreed to George D. Snow, as residuary legatee, had
been turned over to him by Clark prior to January 12, 1869.
The indebtedness from Gordon and his associates to Chapman,
arising upon the judgment in New York, has never been paid,
and no claim based thereon was ever presented to Clark or to
the probate judge for the city and county of San Francisco.
A transcript of the judgment was procured by Chapman and
forwarded to Snow in Minnesota about October 23, 1867, and,
after some correspondence between them in respect to its
allowance and payment, an action at law was brought thereon
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Minnesota by Chapman, as executor, against George D. Snow
and P. D. Clark, described as the executors of the last will and
testament of John Gordon, deceased. In that action process
was served upon Snow, but Clark was not found. Snow appeared and defended, denying in his answer that he was or
evei had been the executor of Gordon's will, and pleading that
Clark, as executor in California, had fully administered the
assets which had come to his hands, and had been discharged
by the probate court of that state from his said office. At
the June term, 1871, of the Circuit Court, the issues were found
in favor of the plaintiff and against Snow, and judgment rendered thereon for the sum of $7264.25 and costs. In that action, although brought against Snow and Clark as executors
in their official capacity, judgment was finally rendered against
Snow personally, and execution awarded de bnis proprii. A
writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States to
reverse that judgment was sued out, pending which, in the

BORER v. CHAPMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

year 1873, Snow died testate, leaving Edson R. Smith as the
executor of his will, who was -thereupon substituted as plaintiff
in 6rror in this court. At the October term, 1876,' a decision
was rendered in this court, reversing the judgnent of the Circuit Court on the ground that it was erronebus in form, inasmuch as the. action was debt on judgment. recovered against
the deceased testator of the defendant, and nothing was alleged in the declaration to show that the defendant had become
personally liable for the judgment debt. Srith v,.
Chaman,
93 U. S. 41. The cause was therefore remanded to the Circuit
Court, with instructions to take further proceedings therein in
conformity with the opinion. The mandate of this court having been filed on June 7, 1877, in the Circuit Court, the cause
came on to be heard at the Dec6mber term, 1878, upon an
order theretofore granted the plaintiff, George A. Chapman,
executor, &c., on his petition, directed to Edson R. Smith, as
executor of Snow's will, and Felix A. Borer, who had been
appointed administrator de baois Pon with will annexed of
John Gordon, deceased, to show cause why the said Borer,
administrator aforesaid, should not be substituted as such administrator in the place of George D. Snow, deceased, as defendant in said cause, and why judgunent should not be entered
in favor of the plaintiff upon the previous findings of the court
in the premises; apd said 'Felix A. Borer, administrator as
aforesaid, having objected fo said substitution, it was ordered
by the court that'he should ]iot be required against his objection to be substituted as defendant as aforesaid, and the motion
of the plaintiff for such substitutibn was for that reason denied.
The judgment of the Circuit Court then proceeds as follows
"And it is further ordered, considered, and adjudged that
judgment shall be, and the same is hereby, entered in favor of
said .plaintiff, GeQrge M. Chapman, executor of the last will
andtestament of Eunice Chapman, deceased, wvne
u
vro tunc,
upon the said decision and findings of the court as of the 10th
day of July, A.D. 1871, against the said George D. Snow in

his capacity as.,executor of the last will and testament of John
Gordon, deceased, for the sum of $7264.25, and costs, taxed at
$O62.76, to be paid. and enforced-out qf the effects of the testaVOL. cxrx-38

59d

OCTOBER TERM " 8d.
Opinion of the Court.

tor, John Gordon, deceased, with interest on said. sum of
$7264.25 from said 10th day of July, 1871, and that said judgment be also certified by this court to the probate court of the
county of Le Sueur, Minnesbta, as a claim duly allowed and
adjudged against the said estate of John Gordon, deceased."
Felix A. Borer had been appointed administrator de lons
Aon, with the will annexed, of John Gordon, by the probate
court of Le Sueur County, on July 7, 1874, upon the petition
of Chapman setting forth the recovery of his judgment in the
Ciicuit Court of the United States, the pendency of the writ
of error from the Supreme Court, and the fact that Clark had
never qualified in the Minnesota proceedings, and that Snow
in his lifetime had denied the acceptance of the executorship
of Gordon's will. Borer has ever since remained administrator
by virtue of said appointment.
Upon these facts the cause came on for final hearing in the
Circuit Court, where a decree was rendered in favor of the
complainant, the court being of the opinion"1st. That George D. Snow, appointed executor by the wJll
of John Gordon, deceased, accepted the trust and had the will
proved in Le Sueur County, Minnesota.
"2d. That this court has jurisdiction to grant the relief asked
for by complainant's bill, for the reason that.a court of equity
can decree that a legatee under a will, after distribution, holds
property in trust when valid debts of the decedent remain
unpaid, and follow the property or its proceeds in the legatee's
hands.
"3d. That the estate of George D. Snow is liable for the
debt set up in the complaint; and if the estate of Snow is not
sufficient to respond to the full amount, the deficiency can
be supplied out of the estate of the residuary legatee, MiI5.
Snow.
"4th. That the complainant's debt is not barred by the statute of limitations."
It was found by the decree that no assets of the estate of
John Gordon had come into the hands of Felix A. Borer, as
administrator; that on the 12th day of January, 1869, George
D. Snow, after payment of all debts, funeral expeises, legacies,

BORER v. CHAPUAN.
Opinion of the Court.

and all claims owing or payable by the estate of John Gordon,
except the claim or debt owing to Chapman,, received under
the will of Gordon property belonging to said Gordon of the
value of $10,777.00; that by the will of George D. Snow, his
wife, Harriet Cecilia Snow, was made his residuary legatee;
and that the estate of Snow is solvent, and sufficient to pay all
his debts and to fulfil ll the provisions of the will, with an
excess of assets thereon of not less than $100,000 in value,
including over $20,000 in cash, for said Harriet Cecilia Snow
as such residuary legatee; that she has, as such residuary
legatee, received from Edson R. Smith, as executor of the will
of George D. Snow, an amount more. than sufficient to pay the
claims of the plaintiff, with interest and costs; and that upon the
death of George D. Snow, Edson R. Smith, as the executor of
his will, collected and received the sum of $282-.82, being the
proceeds of a claim or debt owing to the said John Gordon at
the time of his death, and a part of the estate of the said John
Gordon. It also appears that there are no outstanding and
unpaid claims against the estate of Gordon, except that due on
the judgment in favor of the complainant below.
The errors assigned by the appellants are as follows:
1st. The Circuit Court erred in holding that the said George,
D. Snow had ever in any manner become executor of Gordon's
will, or chargeable as such.
2d. The court erred in holding that the judgment in the
suit at law of Chapman against Snow, entered on December
18, 1878, nuncpro tune, as of July 10, 1871, was of any force
or effect whatever, as against the estate of said John Gordon,
or that of the said George D. Snow.

3d. The court erred in holding that the relief prayed in the
bill had not been barred by the proceedings and decrees of
the probate court for the city and county of San Francisco, in
the state of California.
4th. The court erred in holding that the relief prayed by
the bill had not been barred by laches and the lapse of time,
and the several statutes of limitations set up and referred to
in the answers of the defendants to the bill of complaint.
5th. The court erred in holding and adjudging that the

OCTOBER -TERM,, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

estate of the said George D. Snow is liable for the claim or
debt owing to the said George Y. Chapman, executor.
6th. The court erred in holding that if the estate of the
said George D. Snow should not be sufficient to respond to
the full amount of said claim or debt, the deficiency should be
pai 4 by the said Harriet Cecilia Snow.
* The ftist error assigned is that the court erred in deciding
that George D. Snow was chargeable as executor of Gordon's
will. It is too late to raise that question in this cause. It was,
one of the matters in issue in the action brought by Chapman,
executor, against Snow, executor, in the Circuit Court of the.
United States for the District of XMinnesota, wherein it was
expressly held and adjudged that George D. Snow was executor of John Gordon, deceased. The judgment in that case
was reversed upon the application of Snow's personal representatives on the express ground that it was made payable out
of the personal effects of Snow, when it ought to have been
de bonis testatoris. That judgment concludes the question in
this cause.
It is next contended, however, that that judgment is of itself
void as having been rendered on the 18th of December, 1878,
against Snow, as executor, who was then dead, although the
entry was made to take effect as of July 10, 1871. The law
on the subject of entries nuncpro tune was fully considered
and stated by this court in the case of Xfitcheli v. Overrwnn,
103 U. S.62, 64. It was there stated, ".that, where the delay
in rendering a judgment or a decree arises from the act of the
court, that is, where the delay has been for its convenience or
has been caused by the multiplicity or press of business, or the
intricacy of the questions involved, or for any other cause not
attributable to the laches of the parties, but within the control
of the'court, the judgment or the decree may be entered retrospectively as of a time when it should or might have been
entered up. In such cases, upon the maxim 11ctus curicv
'e/ tinel grvabit,which has been well said to be founded in'
right and good sense, and to afford a safe and certain guide
for the administration of justice, it is the duty of the court to
* see that the parties shall not suffer by the delay. A nuna pro

"BORER

V.

CHAPMAN.

Opinion of the Court.

tune order should be granted or refused, as justice may require,
in view of the circumstances 6f the particular case." 1
This rule was applied in the case.of Coughlin v. District oJ
Colunbia,106 U. S. 7, 11. In that case, a judgment rendered
upon a verdict in favir of the plaintiff had been erroneously
set aside in the same court. A new trial was had, and a judgment for the defendant was reversed by this court, which
affirmed the original judgment for the plaintiff as of the date
when it was rendered, in order to prevent the action .from
being abated by the intervening death of the plaintiff.
In the present instance, upon the findings as originally made,
by the Circuit Court, judgment should have beei, rendered
against Snow de boni&testatoris; the error of the court was in
.making it payable de bonis proqjris. For this errrc-it was reversed on the application of Smith, executor of SnQoa .whohad,
procured himself to be substituted as plaintiff in orror for that
purpose. The mandate of this court was sent -to the Circuit
Court in form, reversing the original judgnient, but, in substance, simply requiring its correction in the one particular in
which the error had been committed. The manner in which
this duty, of the Circuit Court was performed, under the mandate of this court, was to enter the judgment nune pro tine,
as of the time when it should have been entered in proper
form. The reversal of the judgment in the Circuit Court, by
the operation of the mandate of this court, and the execution
of that mandate by the Circuit Court in entering the new
judgment, was one continuous judicial act, and to that Smith,
as executor of Snow, was a party, for he was a party to the
record as plaintiff in error in this court. It cannot, therefore,
be said that the action of the Circuit Court was ex parte, or
that it was void, because it was directed against a deceased
person not represented. This objection, if valid, would prevent, in all cases of the death of one of the parties, the entry
of a judgment nunepro tunc. It is the fact of suchintervening'
death that creates the necessity, by which the power is justiI ote by the Court.
ume og reports.

This passage is incorrectly printed in the vol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

fied,.in order to prevent a failure of justice, for which the other
party is not responsible, and by which, therefore, he shoud
not suffer. The action of the court in making the entry'in
the form in which it was made was also, we think, a proper
exercise of its discretion upon the circumstances of the case, as
the object of the proceeding was to fix the liability of the
estate of Gordon, as represented by his executor, Snow, in
order that the judgment of Chapman might, furnish ground'
for a creditor's bill, seeking to apply the assets of Gordon's
estate to its payment. We hold, therefore, that the entry of
the judgment against Snow, as executor of Gordon, was a
-valid and effectual exercise of the power and discretion of the
court, and that the validity of the judgment itself cannot be
impeached.
It is insisted, however, that the relief prayed for by the bill
and awarded by the court, was barred by the proceedings of
the probate court for the city and county of San Francisco:
The statutes of California, Hittell, Gen. Laws California, 18501864, provide, that if a claim against the estate of a decedent,'
in course of distribution in the probate court, shall not be presented within ten months after the first publication of the notice to creditors, it shall be barred foreker; unless when it
shall be made to appear by the affidavit of the claimant, to
the satisfaction of the executor and administrator and the
probate judge, that the claimant had no notice, as provided by
the act, by reason of being out of the State, in which case it
may be presented at any time before a decree of distribution
is entered. 5828, § 130. It is also provided, 5944, § 246, that,
when the accounts of the administrator or executor have been
settled, and an order made for the-payment of debts and distribution of the estate, no creditor, whose claim was not included in the order of payment, shall have any right to call
upon the creditors who have been paid, or upon the heirs, devisees, or legatees to contribute to the payment of his claim.;
but,.if the executor or administrator shall have failed to give the
notice to the creditors, as prescribed by the act, such creditor
may recover on the bond of the executor or administrator the
amount of his claim, or such part thereof as he would have

BORER

'

. CHAPMAN.

Opinion of 'the Court.

been entitled to had it been allowed. It is further provided,
5977, § 279, that, when an dstate has been fully administered,
and it is shown by the executor or administrator, by the production of satisfactory vouchers, that he has paid all sums of
money due from him, and delivered up, 'under the order of the
court, all the property of the estate to the parties entitled, and
performed all the acts lawfully required of him, the court shall
make a decree discharging him from all liability thereafter.
It is argued that Chapman, as a creditor of Gordon's ezate,
was bound to make himself a party to the proceedings in the
probate court of San Francisco, for the purpose of obtaining
payment and satisfaction of his claim; that, failing to do this,
he is barred from any right to recover, either from the executor of that estate or from any legatee; that the defendants.
in this bill, as legatees of Gordon, received what was due them
under his will under the sanction and by the order and judgment of the probate court of San Fratcisco, which vested them
with an indefeasible title which must be respected'in every.
other forum, if full faith and credit, according to the Constitu-'
tion of, the -United States, is to be given in other §tates to the
public acts and judicial proceedings of the courts of California.
But these positions are not tenable. The administration of
the- estate of Gordon, in California, under the orders of the
probate court of San Francisco, was merely ancillary; the
primary adnministration was that of the testator's domicil,,
Minnesota. Chapman was not a citizen of California, nor resident there; he was no party to the administration proceedings;
he was not bound to make himself such. If he had chosen he
could have proved his claim there and obtained payment, but
he had the right to await the result of the settlement of that
administration, and look to such assets of Gordon as he could
subsequently find in Alimnesota, whether originally found there
or brought there from California by the executors or legatees
of Gordon's estate. The assets in California finally distributed
there, and brought into Minnesota by the executor or by any
legatee, remained assets in Minnesota for the payment of any
unpaid creditors choosing that forum. Such assets were impressed with a trust which such creditor had a right to%have

OCTOBER TERM, "1886.
Opinion of the Codrt.

administered for his benefit. Aspden v. .ea,
4 How. 467;
Stay v. Thcrashier, 6 How. 44; Hill v. Tucker, 13 How. 458 ;
3fa7key v. Coxe, 18 How. 100. It is upon the ground of such
a trust that the jurisdiction of courts of equity primarily rests
in administration suits, and in creditors' bills brought against
executors or administrators, or after distribution against
legatees, for the purpose of charging them with a liability to
apply the assets of the decedent to the payments of his debts.
As a part of the ancient and original jurisdiction of courts of
equity, it is vested, by the Constitution of the United States
and the laws of Congress in pursuance thereof, in the Federal
courts, to be administered by the circuit courts in controversies
arising between citizens of different states. It is the familiar
anLd well settled doctrine of this court that this jurisdiction is
independent of that conferred by the states upon their own
courts, and cannot be affected by any legislation except that of
the United States. Suydam v. Broadnax, 14 Pet. 67; Hagan'
v. Walker, 14 How. 28; Union Bank v. Jolly, 18 Row. 503;
Hyde v. Stone, 20 Row. 170; Green. v. Creighton, 23 How.
90; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425, 430.
In Payne v. Hook, ubi supra, the rule was declared in these
words:. "We have repeatedly held that the jurisdiction of the
c6urts of the United States over controversies between citizens
of different states cannot be impaired by the laws of the states
which prescribe the modes of redress in their courts, or which
regulate the distribution of their judicial poyer If legal
remedies are sometimes-modified to suit the changes in the laws
of the states and the practice-of their courts, it is not so with
equitable. The equity jurisdiction conferred on the Federal
courts is the same that the High Court of Chancery in England
possesses; is subject to neither limitation nor restraint by state
'legislation, and is uniform throughout the different states of
the Union."
The only qualification in the application of this principle is,
that the courts of the United States, in the exercise of their
jurisdiction over the parties, cannot seize or control property
while in the custody of a court of the state. Williams v.
Benedict, 8 Row. 107; Yonley v. Lavender, 21 Wall. 276;
Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450.

BORtR v. CHAPMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

This exception does not apply in the present case, for the
assets sought by this bill to be marshalled in favor of the complainant are not in the possession of any other court; they are
in the hands of the defendants, impressed with a trust in favor
of the complainant, a creditor of Gordon, and subject to the
control of this court by reason of its jurisdiction over their
persons.
'It is further contended, however, on the part of the appellants, that, if the relief sought in this bill is not barred by the
administration proceedings in California, it is, nevertheless,
defeated by the application of the statute of limitations of the
state of Minnesota. The statute of Minnesota, Gen. Stat. 1883,
826, c. 't77, gives to unpaid creditors of the testator an action
against the legatees, in which the plaintiff, in order to recover, is
required to show that no assets were delivered by the executor.
or administrator of the deceased to his heirs or next of kin; or
that the value of such assets has been recovered by some other
creditor; or that such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demands of the plaintiff. In the last case he can recover only the
deficiency. The whole amount of the recovery shall be apportioned among all the legatees of the testator in proportion to
the amount of their legacies respectively; his proportion only
being recoverable against each legatee. In respect to this stat-,
utory right of action, however, it is provided in the same act,
§ 16, that no such action shall be maintained unless commenced
within one year from the time the claim is allowed or established. It is maintained that, according to the judicial decisions of Minnesota, the creditor is required, first, to establish
his claim by a separate judicial proceeding, and in a subsequent
suit obtain the recovery provided for against the legatees.
Bryant v. Liver'more,20 Minn. 313. It is admitted that the suit
brought by Chapman in the Circuit Court of the United States
against Snow, for the purpose of' establishing his claim against
Gordon's estate, answers the first of these conditions, but that,
in order to fulfil the second, the present bill should have been
filed within one year from the date of th6 final judgment in
that action. The date of the judgment as originally rendered
against Snow was April 19, 1872; the present bill was filed

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

August 20, 1879 ; and we axe asked to hold that the right to
sue was at that time barred by the statute of limitations. But
the judgment rendered April 19, 1872, was not the end of the
litigation; Snow himself sued out his writ of error to reverse
it, and upon his death, in 1873, his executor, Smith, became a
party, as plaintiff in error, and prosecuted the writ until the
reversal of the judgment at the October term, 1876. The
mandate of this coint was filed in the Circuit Court June 7,
1877, and on December 18, 1878, the final judgment was en'tered against Snow as executor, to be paid and enforced out
of the effects of the testator, John Gordon, deceased, as'of
July 10,1871. The present bill was fied within twelve months
after the date of that entry. If, for the purpos6 of determining the application of the statute of limitations, this judgment
may be considered as dating from December 18, 1878, the bar,
was not complete. It is contended, however, that, as the entry
of the judgment was made on that date nune pro tuc as of
July 10, 1871, the latter must be considered as the effective
date of the judgment for all purposes. 'We are not, however,
of that opinion. The date of that entry is by a fiction of law
made and considered to be the true date of the judgment~for
one purpose only, and that is to bind the defendant by the
obligation of the -judgment entered as of a date when he was
,in full life; but the right of the complainant in this' bill to enforce that judgment by the present proceeding certainly did
not begin until hfter the judgment in that form was actually
,entered. Until that time the right was in abeyance; the litigation had, until then ended, been continuously in progress. It
canot be that the statute of limitations will be allowed to
commence to run against a right until that right has accrued
in a shape to be effectually- enforced.
In Tiapley v. GoodseNl, 122 Mlass. 176, it was held that a
judgment entered nuno pro tune was the final judgment in
the action, so as to charge sureties on an attachment bond, on
whose behalf it was urged that they aould not be considered
in default by reason of not paying for thirty days after its
date, the amount of a judgment which had no actual existence until long after the thirty days had expired. And it was

BORER v. CHAPTAN.
Opinion of the Court.

there pointed out that a judgment may have effect from one
date for one purpose and from another date for another purpose. As in the case of judgments at common law, which had
relation to the first day of the term, so as to bind the lands of
the debtor of which he was then seised, even though, he had
aliened them bona ,Ade before judgment actually signed and
execution issued; and the statute, 29 Car. II, c. 3, §§ 13-15,
providing that, as against bona#fide purchasers, they should be
deemed judgments only from the time when they were actually signed, did not restrict their validity or effect, in law or
equity, by relation to the first day of the term, as against the
debtor or other persons. Odes v. Tfoodward, 2 Ld. Raym.
766; .C'. 1 Salk. 87; Robizsmor v. Tonge, 3. P. Wins. 398:
It follows, therefore, that, if this were a suit brought in a
state court of Minnesota under the statute in question, it would
hot be barred by the limitation sough6 to be applied. Whether
that statute has any application to this bill in equity, filed in.
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Minnesota, by a citizen of another state, is a question which"
need not be considered or decided. It is enough to say that
the right of the complainant is not barred by force of tire
state statute, and that, according to the principles of equity,
there has been no such voluntary delay as would make his
claim stale. On the contrary, the complainant has shown
himself to be diligent, active, and eager in the prosecution of
his claim and the pursuit of his remedy. He has been guilty,
of no laches; the delay has been caused by the action of his
adversaries, or by the necessary delays of litigation. He is an
unpaid creditor of Gordon's estate, who has sought by every
means in his power, both at law and in equity, to obtain satisfaction of a just claim. The defendants are shown to be in
possession of the assets of Gordon's estate, which ought to
have been applied in its satisfaction; they should be held as
trustees for that purpose.. Such was the decree of the Circuit
Court, which is hereby
-AffiZmed.

