WILSON v. BLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

WILSON
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

. BLAIR.

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES "FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted November 15, 18k.-Decided December 13, 1886.

When the record in the court below is silent as to the value of the matter
in dispute, It is good practice for that court to allow affidavits and counter affidavits of value to be filed under directions from the court.
The burden of proof is on plaintiff in error, when the record is silent as to
the value of the subject-matter in dispute, to establish that it is of the
jurisdictional value.

This was an. action for the possession of real estate. Judgment. for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ of error.
The defendant in error moved to dismiss for want of jurisdictional value in the matter in dispute.
J1ir. lewis A. Gr'f, .Mr. C. S. Montgomery, and Xr....
H.
Segs ions for the motion.
3t. C. 0. Tf7ed*76 and Xrh. J. C. Crooker opposing.
MR. CHIEF

JusTICE WTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Our jurisdiction in this case depends on the value of the
matter in dispute. Final judgment was entered in the action
Iay 24, 1884. At that time there was nothing in the record
to show the value. On the 16th of September, 1884, on motion, leave was given the defendant in the court below to file
affidavits-of value that day, and the plaintiff to file counter
affidavits in twenty days. This was good practice, and, if
oftener adopted, would save trouble to parties and to us.
Under this leave, and others of a similar character, which were
afterwards granted, a considerable number of affidavits were
filed by both parties. The affidavits were contradictory, some
having a tendency to prove that the value was more than five
thousand dollars, and others that it was less. On the 5th of
May, 1885, the district judge, withut formally deciding the
'question of: value,.allowed a, writ of error, thus sending the

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

case here on the affidavits, free from any decision whatever by
the court below as to their effect. In this respect the case
diffeis -from Gage v. Pumpelly, 108 U. S. 164, where the appeal was allowed by the court in session after considering the
affidavits; and from Zeigler v. Hokins, 117 U. S. 683, where
the value was found as one of the facts in the case.
The burden of showing jurisdiction is on the plaintiff in
error. He must establish as a fact by a fair preponderance of
testimony that the value of the property in dispute exceeds
five thousand dollars. This he has not done. Two witnesses
swear that the property is worth more than six thousand dollars, and eight that it is worth five thousand dollars, "or
more." These are for the plaintiff 'in error, but there are
eight on the other side who say it is worth only from about
•$3000 to about $3500, and the certificate of the county clerk
shows that it was valued for taxation in 1884 at only seven
hundred dollars. Under these circums tances, we think the
decided preponderance of the evidence is against our jurisdicion, and the motion to dismiss is therefore granted.
Diimissed.

JOHNSON v. CHICAGO AND PACIFIC ELEVATOR
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November 30, 1886.-Decided December 13, 1836.

The jib-boom of a vessel towed by a steam-tug, in the Chicago River, at Chi_
cago, Illinois, struck a building on land, through the negligence of the tug,
and caused damagetoit, and the losg of shelled corn stored in it. A statute
of Illinois gave a lien on the tug for the ddmage, to be enforced by a suit
in personam against her owner, with an attachment against the tug, and a
judgment in personam against her owner and the surety in a 6b5nd for
her release. In such a suit, in a court of Illinois, to recover such damage, such a bond having been given, conditioned to pay any judgment in
the suit, and the tug having been released, an application afterwards by
J., claiming to be part o'iner of her, to be made a defendant in the suit,
was denied, and a judgment for the damage was given against the de-

