PEPER v. FORDYCE.
Statement of Facts.

PEPER v. FORDYCE.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRIoT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued November 17, 18%.-

Decided December 13, 1886,

If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States does not appear on the face of the record, in some form, the decree is erroneous and
must be reversed.
A, a 6itizen of Arkansas, conveyed to B, a citizen of the same State, real
estate in Arkansas, in trust to secure the payment of notes due to C, a
citizen of Missouri, with power of sale in case of non-payment. Subsequently A became insolvent and assigned his property to D, a citizen of
-A~kansas, in trust for the benefit of his creditors. Held, that, In proceedings in equity commenced by D to determine the amount of indebtedness from A to C, and to prevent the sale of the trust property by B,
and to obtain a cancellation of the conveyance to B on payment ofthe
amount found due to C, B was a necessary party, with interests adverse
to D; and as both were citizens of the same State, and as the jurisdiction.
of the Circuit Court depended alone upon the citizenship of the parties,
it was without jurisdiction. Thayer v. Life Association of America, 112
U. S. 117, affirmed.
When a decree or judgment of a Circuit Court is reversed for want of juris-"
dicti6n in that court, this court will make such order in*respect to the
costs of appeal as justice and right may seem to require. Manqfield, &c.,
Railway v. ,wann, III U. S. 379, and Hancock v. Holbrook, 112 U. S. 229,

follovl-d.

From the record in this case it appeared that on the 10th of
January, 1881, Walter A. Moore, a citizen of Arkansas, conveyed to Georgd G. Latta, a citizen of the same State, certain
property in the city of Hot Springs, in trust to secure the payment of three notes for the sum of $2433.46 each, payable to
the order of Charles G. Peper, under the name of Charles G.
Peper & Co., a citizen of Missouri, with powQr of sale in case
of non-payment. After the execution of this conveyance
Moore became insolvent, and assigned his property to Samuel
W. Fordyce, a citizen of Arkansas, for the benefit of his creditors. On the 11th of June, 1881, Fordyce as such assignee,
at the instance of the creditors oT Moore and in their behalf;

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

began a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Arkansas against Peper and Latta,
the object and purpose of which was to prevent a sale of the
property under the deed to Latta, and for an account of certain
transactions between Peper and Moore connected with the
notes which had been secured, witl a view to the cancellation
of the debt, or at least its payment after the exact amount due
should be determined. In the bill it appeared that both Fordyce and Latta were citizens of Arkansas, and that Peper was
a citizen of Missouri. To this bill Peper and Latta filed a
joint answer.
Afterwards, on the 31st of October, 1881, Fordyce, as assignee, and Moore began another suit against Peper and Latta
in the Circuit Court of Garland County, Arkansas, the object
of which was also to enjoin Peper and Latta from selling the
property under the deed to Latta, and to obtain a cancellation
of the conveyance. Immediately on the filing of this bill, a
preliminary injunction was granted as prayed. On the same
day, Peper and Latta fied a petition for the removal of this
last suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, on the gTound that "there is a
controversy. in this suit between citizens of different States,
and which can be fully determined between them." In their
petition it was stated in express terms that Latta, Fordyce, and
Moore were all citizens of Arkansas, and Peper a citizen of
Missouri. This cause was entered in due form in the Circuit
Court of the United States on the 14th of November, 1881,
and on the 21st of the same month Peper and Latta filed in
that court a joint answer to the bill which had been filed in
the State court, and on which the injunction had been granted.
On the 20th of December, 1881, the two causes thus in the
Circuit Coart of the United States were there consolidated on
motion of Fordyce, and an order made "that the two causes
be tried as one suit under the title" of the cause originally
begun in that court.
On the 10th of June, 1882, Peper and Latta filed a cross-bill
in which they prayed a foreclosure and sale of the trust property. To this cross-bill an answer was filed by Fordyce and

PEPER v. FORDYCE.
Opinion of the Court.

Moore, setting up substantially the same defences as were
shown in the bill of Fordyce in the Circuit Court of the United
States, and to this a replication was filed by Peper and Latta.
Testimony was taken, and on the final hearing of the cause a
decree was entered dismissing the cross-bill and directing a
cancellation of the deed of trust. From that decree Peper
and Latta took this appeal.
.11>. Henry Hitecock for appellants.
&p]y was with
.Xr. EPen IW. ,_AFizallZ (Jir.George W. .At
him) submitted on their brief.
AIMa.

CImF JusTicE WATE. after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The first objection now made to the decree is, that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, either of the suit originally begun in that court, or of that removed from the State court. If
the jurisdiction does not appear on the face of the record in
some form, the decree is erroneous and must be reversed.
That was decided'at the present term in Contiaental Life I,.
Co. v. Ploadq,ante, 237, to which reference is made for the
authorities.
The jurisdiction in this case depends alone on the citizenship
of the parties; and in the suits as originally began, and on their
consolidation in the Circuit Court, Latta, one of the defendants, is, and was at the commencement of the actions, a citizen
of the same State with the plaintiffs. This is fatal to the juris-,
diction, because Latta was an indispensable party adverse in.
interest to the plaintiffs, and there was no separable controversy between the plaintiffs and Peper which would authorize
the removal of the suit begun in the State court on that
account. This was expressly decided in Dweyer v. 1ife Assocta/on of Ame'iera, 112 U. S. 717, a case which cannot be distinguished from this. It follows, therefore, that the decree
must be reversed.
It only remains to consider the question of costs; for in
J1ian,#eld, Coldwater& Zake Xiuicidgan Railway Co. v. Swanam,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of thb Court.

111 U. S. 379, and Huancock v. Holrook, 112 U. S. 229, it was
held that, upon a reversal for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, this court may make such order in respect to the
costs of the appeal as justice and right shall seem to require.
Here the error is attributable equally to both the parties. Fordyce sued originally in the Circuit Court, when, upon the face of
his bill, it appeared there was no jurisdiction.' Without discontinuing that suit he sued again in the. State court upon what
was substantially the same cause of action, and to obtain substantially the same relief. This suit Peper and Latta caused
to be removed to the Circuit Court, and in their petition set
forth a state of facts which showed that the case was not removable. The cause was then entered in the Circuit Court,
and an answer and a cross-bill filed by Peper and Latta without any attempt on the part of Fordyce or Moore to have the
suit remanded, and without even calling the attention of the
court to the question of. jurisdiction. On the contrary, after
the answer and before the cross-bill, Fordyce moved for and
obtained an order that the two cases-that which he had
brought in the Circuit Court of the United States and that
which Peper and Latta had removed there-be heard as one
under the title of his own suit in that court. The cases then
proceeded, without objection by either party, until after a final
decree below and an appeal by Peper and Latta to this court.
Under these circumstances, we order that the costs of this
court be divided equally between the parties, each paying
half.
Tihe decree of the Circuit Court is reversedZfor want of jurisdiction in, the Circuit Court,and the cause remanded, with
instructions to dismiss the bill fled ariginallyin that court
by . rdyce against Peper and Latta, without prejudice,
and to remand the suit removed from the State Court, each
party to pay his own costs in, the Circuit Court.

