OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

ceeds of the sales. These regulations might extend to provisions for the ascertainment of the nature and extent of the
occupancy of different claimants of lots, and the execution and
delivery to those found to be occupants in good faith of some
official recognition of title, in the nature of a conveyance.
But they could not authorize any diminution of the rights of
the' occupants, when ihe extent of their occupancy was established. The entry was in trust for them, and nothing, more
was necessary than an official recognition of the extent of
their occupancy. Under the authority conferred by the townsite act, the legislature could not change or close the streets,
alleys, and blocks of the town by a new survey. Whatever
power it may have had over them did not come from that act,
but, if it existed at all, from the general grant of legislative
power under the organic act of the Teiritory.
The plaintiffs taking the lots they occupied, with the right
of way appurtenant thereto, that is, over the alley on which
the lots were situated; which they had previously enjoyed, the
action of the probate judge in conveying the alley to the defendant was illegal and void. The intrusion of the defendant
thereon was, therefore,- a trespass, and the fence erected by
him, to bar the passage through it, was a nuisance to be
abated.
The judment of he court beWow isafi'rmed.

SUTTER v. ROBINSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued December 5, 10, 1886.-Decided December 20, 1886.

A patentee is not at liberty to insist in the courts upon a construction of
his patent which the Patent Office required him to expressly abandon
and disavow as the condition of the issue of his patent.
Shepard v. Carrgan, 116 U. S. 593, affirmed.

SUTTER v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.
The improvement in the apparapus for resweating tobacco which was patented to Abraham Robinson, June 10, 1879, by Letters Patent No, 216,293,
consisted in the substitution of a wooden vessel in place of a metallic
one for holding the tobacco while being resweated.

Bill in equity for the infringement of letters-patent.
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr.: Thomazs A. Bannng for appellants.
BanniVg was with him on the brief.
ir. Jo n 1.
TFvnday'for appellees.

The

-Yr. Ehraimn

i r. drmund Adcock

was with him on the brief.
M& JUSTICE MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by Isaac Robinson and Abraham
Robinson against the appellants to restrain an alleged infringement of letters-patent granted by the United States to Abraham
-Robinson on June 10, 1879, for an improved apparatus for resweating tobacco. The defences relied on are, that the patent
i invalid for want of novelty, and a-denial of the alleged iiifringement. The specifications and claims of the patent, with
reference to accompanying drawings, [p. 533,] are as follows:
"Figure 1 is a top or plan view of an apparatus embodying
my improvements, and Fig. 2 is a vertical central section of
the steam-receiver and tobacco-holder.
"Like letters of reference indicate like parts.
"It is usual to soften the lelves of tobacco, as is well known,
in order to prepare them for being manufactured into cigars
and other manufactured goods, and to bring out a good and
uniform color. This has been done heretofore in various ways,
and, among 9thers, by dampening the leaves and exposing
them to heat while in that condition.
"The object of this invention is to provide improved means
for exposing the leaves to the action of steam for the purposes
above set forth; and to that end my invention consists of a
tobacco-holding vessel made of wood sufficiently porous to permit the steam to percolate through it., in combination, sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion ,of the Court.

stantiallyoas hereinafter described, with a steam-generating apparatus and a steam-receiving chamber surrounding the vessel
for containing the tobacco.
"I am aware that the general structural plan of the apparatus hereinafter described is old, and I do not, therefore, here
-intend to claim the same independently of a tobacco-receiving
vessel made of wood sufficiently porous to permit the steam tq
percolate through it, as and for the purposes set forth, the said
wooden vessel constituting, as I believe, an improvement upon
the apparatus heretofore in use, for the reason that, in eiiploying wood instead of metal in the construction of the said
vessel, the tobacco is prevented from being tainted, and may
be kept continually moist by the action of the steam instead
of being merely heated and sweated, by it, or steamed only by
the generation of steam in the same vessel containing the tobacco, it being obvious that, if the tobacco-receiving vessel be
.made
of metal, as heretofore in devices of this class, the
steam
in an outer surrounding vessel would merely heat the tobacco
and sweat it without imparting new moisture to it. Neither
do I here intend to claim the process, as such, of steaming
tobacco.
"In the drawings A represents an ordinary boiler for gen,erating steam. B is a tank or vessel fQr receiving the steam
generated by the boiler A. 0 is a tight wooden vessel for receiving the tobacco to be treated. This vessel should- be pro.vided with a tight-fitting cover, a..I make the vessel 0 of
wood, as an essential feature of my invention, in order that
the steam may sweat or percolate through it from the tank 3,
and so that the tobacco will not be tainted by contact with
metal. The vessel C is enough smaller than the tank B to be
suspended in the latter and leave an annular space, , between
the two, as well as a space underneath the bottom of the vessel
0, as shown. The space b should also be covered., In order
to provide a cover for the space b, and also suspend the vessel
0 firmly in the tank B, I employ an annular rim or lid, e,
having an -upwardly-turned flange, o', fitted to the vessel C,
and a downwardly-turned flange, o", fitted to the tank B, screws
or other fastenings passing through the flanges into the parts

SUTTrER v. ROBINSON:

533

Opinion of the Court.

to which they are fitted; but it is not essential that these
flanges should be continuous' or extend entirely around the
vessels. Neither is it essential that. the flanged portions of the
lid c should be continuous, or in the same piece with the re.Fig. 1.

XY3.1.

maining part of the said lid. It is, in fact, much the easier
way to make the flanged portions separately from the lid
proper, and I have represented them as made in that manner.,
"I do not, however, here intend to be restricted to any particular way of applying the lid c and suspending the vessel C,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

as both may be done in various suitable ways; but I deem the
manner shown to be the best.
"D 'is a steam-pipe leading from the upper part of the
boiler A into the upper part of the space b, and E is a waterpipe leading from the lower part of the said space into the
lower part of the boiler. To use this apparatus for the purpose for which it is intended, the water in the boiler should be
heated until steam is generated. The tobacco to be treated
should be placed in the vessel C and covered, the tobacco
being then in the condition in which it exists when taken
from the cases or packages in which it may have been packed
by the producers or shippers.
"The water, as well as the steam, will enter the space b and
produce a sufficient temperature in the vessel C to s-veat the
tobacco therein, the steam producing moisture in the vessel C
by sweating or percolating through it from the space b in
addition to the moisture originally in the tobacco before it
was confined in the vessel. The steam which enters the space
b through the pipe D, finding a lower temperature in the said.
space than in the boiler, becomes condensed, and is added or
returned to the volume of water which flows from the said
space into the boiler, and thus keeps the latter supplied. A
circulation of water and steam is also kept up to a certain
extent.
"In a building where steam is supplied through pipes, the.
steam may be conducted -into the space b from the boiler
which. supplies the steam, wherever the boiler may be situated.
The tobacco should be exposed to this treatment from three
to eight days, according to the result desired to be produced,
and it will thus be rendered soft and pliable, and of a uniform
and dark color, without being in any way injured.. The
tobacco prepared- in this manner may be manufactured into
various articles, like cigars and cigarettes.
"I deem it preferable to make the tank B, as well as the
tank C, of wood, so as to prevent tainting the tobacco, and so
as to render the apparatus capable of treating large quantities
of tobacco at the same time, and without making the apparatus heavy and expensive, and to employ a boiler wholly de-

SUTTER v' ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

tached from the tank B, excepting by the steam and water,
pipes connecting the same,, thus enabling me to make the
outer or larger' tank of wood without exposing it to danger
from fire. A detached boiler amply sufficient to be employed
in connection with very large tanks will be comparatively
simple and cheap.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim as new%,
and desire to secure by letters-patent, is "1. The apparatus, substantially as described, for treating
tobacco, to wit: The tight vessel or tank B, the tight vessel C.
made of wood and suspended in the tank B, and a steam-generator or heater, all combine4 and operating together, substan
tially as and for the purposes specified.
"2. The combination of the boiler A, the tight tank B
made of wood, the tight vessel C, made of wood and suspended in the tank B, and the pipes D and E entering tho
tank B and the boiler, all arranged and operating substantially
as and for the purposes specified."
On the hearing in the Circuit Court it was found, upon the
evidence, that the device used by the defendants differed from
that of the complainants, as described in the patent, only in
this respect, that the defendants' tobacco-holder is not made
tight so as to exclude moisture except through the pores- ol
the wood; the defendants using the ordinary tobacco cases in
which the leaf tobacco comes . packed, to hold the tobacco
during the process of resweating. It was contended on the
part of the defendants that this was a substantial difference.
because the complainants' claim require. their tobacco-holder
to be tight while that of the defendants was not. In dispos.
ing of the case upon this point, the judge holding the Circuit.
Court, in his opinion, said: "The essential feature of complainants' invention consists in subjecting the mass of leaf
tobacco to moisture and heat in a comparatively close wooden
box for a sufficient time to have it undergo the process of resweating, and it is no answer to complainants' charge of
infringement of Uheir patent to say that defendants' box is.
not quite so tight as that complainants deem desirable or necessary for the most satisfactory operation of their device.'
Robinsom v. Suttei-, 10 Bissell, 100; S. C. 8 Fed Rep. 828.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
-Opinion of the Court.

The issue as to novelty, upon the proof, was also decided
against the defendants, for the reason that the two devices
relied upon -one described in the Oppelt patent of June 16,
1874, and the other in the Wenderoth patent of July 16, 1878
--both use metal tanks and a metal tobacco-holder. It was
shown that contact with metal taints and injures the tobacco
operated upon, and that the free admission of steam wets and
to some extent cooks the tobacco; and the conclusion of the
Circuit Court was, that "the porous wooden tobacco-holder
devised by Robinson seems, from the proof, to stimulate that
slow fermentation and action in the constituent elements of
the leaf which is required to make the whole mass homo-geneous."
- Upon-a showing made.by the defendants, a rehearing of the
cause was granted, and further proofs taken. Upon that hearing it was made clearly to appear, from the testimony, that
the artificial resweating of tobacco had been effected long prior
to the application for the complainants' patent, by means of
the application 6f steam in a chamber adapted for that purpose, applied to the tobacco while in the ordinary tobacco cases
in which the leaf tobacco comes packed, just as the defendants
were found to have practised. The case, however, was decided against the defendants upon anothet ground, as appears
from the opinion of the judge holding the Circuit Court.
RoinsoA v. Sutter, 11 Fed. Rep. 798. He said: "The distinctive feature of complainants' device for resweating tobacco
is the water tank in the bottom of their outer chamber, so that,
by keeping this water at the proper temperature, the atmosphere of the outer chamber can be kept warm and humid,
-whereby the process of resweating will be induced and carried
on to whatever extent shall be deemed desirable." The devices used prior to Robinson's invention, and proven as antici.pations, which would avoid his patent for want of novelty,
were found not to meet that point in the description of the
complainants' device, inasmuch as the outer tank in each, into
which the steam entered for the purpose of heating and moistening the tobacco, had specific provision made in it for drawing off the water formed by condensation of the steam, instead

SUTTER v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

of being arranged so as to hold a body of water in order to
equalize and maintain the temperature of the vapor in the
room or tank.
The defendants had also introduced in evidence, as an anticipation, a patent granted in 1865 to one Huse. His invention is described in his specification as follows:
"I take the tobacco, by preference, after it has been desiccated and packed in the usual manner in hogsheads or cases,
-and which it is well known are not by any means so close as
to exclude steam. I p!ace these hogsheads or cases, or both,
in a chamber of convenient size, and which can be closed up
steam-tight, and I then introduce heat and moisture by means
of steam apparatus, such as generally employed for heating
buildings, the coils or congeries of pipe being arranged in any
suitable manner for a proper distribution of the heat. Some
of the pipes, about one half of them, are to be pierced with
very small holes, to permit the escape of steam into the chamber. It will be found best to raise and maintain the temperature at about 150 degrees Fahrenheit, and for about forty-eight
hours for tobacco which has been well desiccated, a longer time
being required when treated before it has been well dried. At.
the end of the time specified, the tobacco should be examined,
and, so soon as nicotine is well developed, which will be indicated by the evolution of ammonia, the steam must b shut
off, the chamber opened, the hogsheads or cases opened, the,
tobacco all opened and shaken and thoroughly dried, which is
best done in an open and well-ventilated room; and after it
has been well dried the tobacco will be found to be thoroughly
cured and ready for use, and further fermentation so completely stopped that it can be repacked and kept for any
t
desired length of time.
"In this way I avoid all the evil consequences of the method
heretofore practised, while at the same time it will-enable the
planter to put his crop of tobacco in market in a comparatively
short space of time.
"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent, is the process, substantially as herein described,
of curing tobacco, which process consists in subjecting it to

.OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the action of artificial heat and steam to induce the required
fermentation until nicotine is evolved, and then stopping the
further progress of fermentation by opening the packages and
thoroughly drying every part, substantially as described."
In respect to this, the Circuit Court said: "As for the Huse
patent of 1865, it was only a box heated with steam-coils, in
which the tobacco was to be placed and heated by the radiation'of heat from the pipes and the introduction of live steam."
1.1 Fed. Rep. 798.
There was, accordingly, a decree entered in favor of the
complainants for an injunction, and for the recovery of
$3309.30 damages found by the master. The defendants
have brought the present appeal.
It sufficiently appears from the evidence, that, if the essential and sole characteristic of the complainants' invention consists in a substitution of a close wooden box, to hold the tobacco while being subjected to the process of resweating, for
metal tobacco-holders previously in use, either the practice of
the defendants in using as a tobacco-holder the ordinary tobacco cases in which the leaf tobacco comes packed, during
the process of resweating, is not an infringement, or, if it be
so held, the complainants' invention was anticipated by others
long prior to its date. This is shown by the Huse patent, and
it is proven to have been employed by others, particularly by
Louis Specht in the tobacco factory of August Beck & Co., in
Chicago.
It only becomes important, therefore, to consider the ground
finally taken in support of the decree, which involves the question whether the appellees are entitled to claim the water tank
in the bottom of the outer chamber, and the use of water in
it, whereby the atmosphere of the outer chamber can be kept
warm and humid, so that the process of resweating may be
induced and carried on to any desirable extent. In this connection it bccomes important to consider the proceedings in
the Patent Office in the granting of the patent, as shown by-the
file-wrapper. It appears from the 'anscript of the record in
the case that the defendants offered in evidence a copy of this
file-wrapper and contents, which was objected to as incom-

S.UTTER v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

petent and not sufficiently verified. No ruling of the Circuit
Court seems to have been made upon the objection, and the
paper, although described as marked, "Defendants' exhibit,
copy of the fie-wrapper and contents of the Robinson patent,"
is not certified as a part of the evidence, and is not contained
in the transcript. It does not, therefore, appear that the.
paper was ever before the court below, or considered by it in
the hearing of the case. In this court, however, on the hearing, by consent of parties, the file-wrapper and contents were
ordered to be made a part of the record. From that paper it
appears that the original specification, on which the application for a patent was based, declared that the petitioner had
invented certain new and useful improvements in the method
as well as apparatus for steaming leaf tobacco. In setting out
the object of the invention, he said: " The object of this invention is to provide suitable means whereby the leaves may
be subjected to the process of sweating by means. of steam or
water under the influence of heat, and to that end my invention consists of that process and in the apparatus by means of
which I carry on the said process, substantially as hereinafter
specified."
It was also stated, that "B is a tank or vessel for containing
water and receiving the steam generated by the boiler A;"
and that "steam may also be generated in the space by filling
the latter partly with water, and by applying heat directly to
the bottom of the tank B'. A good result will be accomplished
by keeping the water hot, though not to a degree sufficient to
generate steam to any appreciable extent." The claims were
set out as follows:
"First. The method or art, substantially as described,, of,,
treating tobacco, to wit, by placing the leaves in a tight vessel
surrounded or partly surrounded by a chamber for containing
water, and subjecting the tobacco to heat byheating the water
in the said chamber, and keeping it to the proper temperature
by means of heat applied to the said chamber continuously
during the operation of sweating the leaves, substantially as
and for the purpose specified.
"Second. The method or art, substantially as specified, of

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

treating tobacco, to wit, by placing the leaves in. a tight vessel
surrounded by a steam and water-tight chamber, and by introducing steam into the said chamber, substantially as and for
the purpose specifild.
"Third. The apparatus, substantially as described, for treating tobacco, to wit, the tight vessel or tank B, the tight vessel
C, made of wood and suspended in the tank B, and a steam
generator or-heater, all combined and operating together, substafitially as and for the purpose specified.
"Fourth. The combination of the boiler A, the tight tank
B, made of wood, the tight vessel C, made of wood and suspendfed in the tank B, and the pipes D and E entering the
tank B and the boiler, all arranged and operating substantially
as and for the purpose specified."
This bpplication was filed on the 28th of February, 1879,
and rejected by the -Patent Office on the 6th of March, 1879.
Thereupon the applicant filed certain amendments to his
specification, by striking out everything that related to the
method or process for steaming leaf tobacco, and all that had
reference to the use of water under the influence of heat, as
contained in the tank B, and the first two claims. Amend-ments were also made by inserting other parts of the specification as it now stands; amongst others, the following: "I make
-the vessel C of wood, as an essential feature of my invention,
in order that the steam may sweat or percolate through it
,from the. tank B, and so that the tobacco will not be tainted
by contact with the metal." And also the following: "The
steam producing moisture in the vessel C, by sweating or percolating through it from the space b, in addition to the moisture originally in the tobacco before it was confined in the
vessel."
On the I0th of April, 1879, the examiner informed the
applicant that he "should specifically set forth that the structural plan of the device is old, and that the improvement consists alone in making the vessel C of wood instead of metal,
and sufficiently porous to permit the steam to percolate
through it."
Thereupon the applicant filed an amendment by inserting

SUTTER v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the following: "I am aware that the general structural plan
of the apparatus hereinbefore described is old, excepting that
the vessel C for receiving the tobacco has not, so far as I am
awar6, heretofore been made of wood, but of metal. The.
madng of the vessel C of wood, and sufficiently porous to
permit the steam to percolate through it, constitutes the essential feature of this invention. When metallic vessels are employed to receive the tobacco, it is liable to be tainted, and in
such cases is merely heated, but not subjected to the moistening influence of steam or vapor percolating through the vessel.
containing the tobacco, as when this vessel is made of wood
sufficiently porous to admit of that result. I do not, therefore,
here intend to claim the general structural plan of the said
apparatus ifidependently of a vessel, C, made of wood, sufficiently porous to allow the steam to percolate through it."
On the 24th of April, 1879, the examiner wrote to the applicant as follows: "The specification should be amended by,
omitting all statements that the applicant has an improved
process or is the inventor of such.

.

.

.

The statement of

invention, and reference to the state of the art, both require
correction, as the invention is an improved apparatus only."
Thereupon further amendments were made, resulting in the
specification and claims as they now stand, and the patent was
granted.
A comparison of the patent as granted with the application
very conclusively establishes the limits within which the patentee's claims must be confined. He is not at liberty now
to insist upon a construction of his patent which will include
what he was expressly required to abandon and disavow as a
condition of the grant. Shepard v. Carrig n, 116 U. S.593,
and cases there cited. It appears, therefore, distinctly that
the patentee has no claim for a process of steaming tobacco
.by means of steam, or steam and a body of hot water, nor by
any process whatever. His invention must be limited to the
apparatus, and as to that he was expressly required to state
that its structural plan was old and not 'of his invention.
What is meant by the structural plan of the apparatus is the
arrangement of the vessels for .holding the tobacco, for con-

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

fining the steam and water, and for supplying the steam; and
the precise improvement which is alone the subject of the
patent is the substitution of a wooden vessel for holding the
tobaceo while 5eing-resweated in place of a metallic one. So
that the ultimate question in the case is reduced to this,
whether, in such an apparatus, the use of the cases, or boxes.
or packages, in Which the tobacco leaves are originally packed
by the producer is equivalen6 to the wooden tobacco-holder
mentioned in the complainants' specification. If it is not,
there is no infringement; if it is, as we have already seen, it
had been anticipated for many years by the practice of other
persons. It is expressly described in the Huse patent of 1865,
where the inventor states, as follows: "I take the tobacco, by
preference, after it. has been desiccated and packed in the
usual manner in hogsheads or cases, and which it is well
known are not by any means so close as to exclude steam. I
place these hogsheads or cases, or both, in a chamber of convenient size, and which can be closed up steam-tight, and I
then introduce heat and moisture by m'eans of steam apparatus, such as generally employed for heating buildings, the
coils or congeries of pipe being arranged in any suitable
manner for a proper distribution of the heat. Some of the
pipes, about one half of them, are to be pierced with very
small holes to permit the escape of steam into the chamber."
And the same thing was done at the establishment of August
IBeck & Co., in Chicago, before the date of Robinson's application, and by several others.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the decree below
was erroneous.
B is, therefore, ' eversed, aind the cause rernainded, with instructions to dismiss the bill.

