THE HARRISBURG.
Statement of Facts.

think this language is sufficient warrant for anything actually
conveyed by the mortgage and by the decree of tha court.
The decree is, therefore,
Affirmed.

THE HARRISBURG.
APPEAL FROMi.

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVA:NIA.
Argued April 7, 18S0.-Decided November 15. SS6.

In the absence of an act of Congress or a statute of a State giving a right
of action therefor, a suit in admiralty cannot be maintained in the courts
of the United States to recover damages for the death of a human being
on the high seas, or on waters navigable from the sea, which" is caused
by negligence.
If a suit ia rera can be maintained in admiralty against ait offending vessel
for the recovery of damages for the death of a human being on the high
seas, or on waters navigable from the sea, which is caused by negligence,
when an action at law is given therefor by statute in the State where the
wrong was done or where the vessel belonged, (which is not decided,) it
must be commenced within the period prescribed by the State statute for
the begining of process there; the time within which the Suit should be
commenced operating as a limitation of the liability created by statute,
and not of the remedy only.

The following is the case, as stated by the court.
This is a suit in rem beg n in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on the
25th of February, 1882, agair- the Steamer Harrisburg, by
the widow and child of Silas E. Rickards, deceased, to recover
damages for his death caused by the negligence of the steamer
in a collision with the schooner Marietta Tilton, on the 16th
of May, 1877, about one hundred yards from the Cross Rip
Light Ship, in a sound of the sea embraced between the coast
"of Massachusetts and the Islands of Mfartha's Vineyard and
Nantucket, parts of the State of Massachusetts. The steamer
was engaged at the time of the collision in the coasting
trade, and belonged to the port of Philadelphia, where she

,9,00

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

was duly enrolled according to the laws of the United States.
The deceased was first officer of the schooner, and a resident
of ])elaware, where his widow and child also resided when
the *suitwas begun.
The tatutes of Pennsylvania in force at the time of the collision provided that, "whenever death shall be oceasioned by
unlawful violence or negligence, and no suit for damages
be brought by the party injured, during his or her life," "the
husband, widow, children, or parents of the deceased, and no
other relative," "may maintain an action for and recover
damages for the death thus occasioned." - "The action shall be
brought within one year after the death, and not thereafter."
Brightly's Purdon's Dig., 11th ed., 1267, §§ 3, 4, 5; Act of April
15, 1851, § 18; Act of April 6, 1855, §§ 1, 2:
By a statute of Massachusetts relating to railroad corpora.tions, it was provided that "if, by reason of the negligence or
carelessness of a corporation, or of the unfitness or gross
negligence of its servants or agents while engaged in its business, the life of any person, being in the exercise of due diligence, ..
. -is lost, the corporation shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding five thousand nor less than five hundred
dollars, to be recovered by indictment and paid to the executor
or administrator for the use of the widow and children." .
"Indictments against corporations for loss of life shall be
prosecuted within one year from the injury causing the death."
M ass. Gen. Stats. 1860, c. 63, §§ 97-99; Stat. 1874, c. 372,
-163.
No innocent parties had acquired rights to or in the steamer
between the date of the collision and the bringing of the suit.
-Upon :,this state, of facts the Circuit Court gave judgment
agaihst the steamer in the sum of $5100, for the following
reasons:
"1. In the admiralty courts of the United States the death
of a human being upon the high seas or waters navigable from
the sea, caused by negligence, may be complained of as an
injury, and the wrong redressed under the general maritime
law.
"2. The right of the libellants does not depend upon the

THE HARRISBURG.
Argumentfor Appellees.

statute law of either the States 'of Yassachusetts or Pennsylvania, and the limitation of one year in the statutes of these
States does not bar this proceeding.
"3. Although an action in the State courts of either Iassachusetts or Pennsylvania would be barred by the limitation
expressed in the statutes of those States, the admiralty is not
bound thereby, and in this case will not follow the period of
limitation therein provided and prescribed. The drowiing
complained of was caused by the improper navigation, negligence, and fault of the"said steamer, producing'the collision
aforesaid, and the libellants are entitled to recover.
"4. As there are no innocent rights to be affected by the
present proceedings, and no inconvenience will result to the
respondents from the delay attending it, the action,, if not
governed by the statutes aforesaid, is not barred by the libellant's lacbes." 15 Fed. Rep. 610.
From that decree this appeal was taken.
-M,. fTw'aas Hart, r r., for appellant.
Xr. Henry Flande s for appellees.
It is not controverted by counsel for appellant that a marine
tort is within admiralty jurisdiction; or that one who suffers
loss by it is entitled'to compensation: it is only denied that if
the injury causes death, the cause of action survives in admiralty to the widow and children. This contention is supposed
to be founded on the common law. But the common law rule
grew out of the feudal system, and is founded on the idea that
the private wrong is merged in the public offence. Nevertheless, even the common law did not wholly deny redress to the
widow and child. 'It allowed an appeal of murder, which was
not abolished until 1818, 59. Geo. III. c. 46, § 1. 'exparteGordort, 104 U. S. 515 is understood to be an intimation to the bar
that, as the common law rule has been rejected by nearly all
enlightened states, it will be rejected by this court when
opportunity offers. Iord Campbell questioned the common
law doctrine when it was ruled by Lord Ellenborough in Balker
v. Bolton, 1 Camp. 493. And see 9 & 10 Yiet. c. 93.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Appellees.

About the same time the Scotch courts in Dr'ummond or
Brmn v. .2JGregor,Fac. Coll. 1812-1814, 232, in an action

brought by the widow and children of a person killed while
travelling on the top of a long coach, which was overturned by
a post-chaise, found the proprietors of the two vehicles liable
conjointly to the widow in the sum of £200, and to each child'
in -the sum of £130. The case was affirmed on appeal, on the
authority of Black v. Cadell, decided in 1804. And in Patteison v. Wallace, 1 Macqueen, 748, it was not controverted that
recovery could be had by a. widow and children for loss sustained by the death of the husband and father.
International Law is in accord with this doctrine. (a) Grotius says.: "He that kills a man unjustly is bound to physicians and surgeons, if any be made use of, and to make such
reparation to those whom the deceased person was obliged ihb
duty to maintain, such as parents, wife, and children, as the
hope of that maintenance (regard being bad to the age of the
deceased) amounts to." Book 2, c. 17. (b) Rutherford, in his
"Institutes on Natural Law," in remarking upon the supposed
distinction between the life of a freeman and a slave, says:
"If we observe that the life of the slave can no otherwise be
looked upon as the master's property, than as he had an interest in it, we shall find that there is no reason for this distinction, since as far as the relations of a free man had an
interest in his life, the person who murdered hini is obliged to
make them reparation. So that in either case, in settling the
damages, the life of the deceased is estimated according to the
interest which thosewho survive him might have in it." Book
1, c. 17, § 9. (e) Domat, in his work on the Civil Law, says:
"If that which has been thrown out causes the death of a
person, the person who did it . . . will be liable to make
good the damage that is done." Book 11, Title VIII., §1, Art.
IV.(d) Puffendorf says: "The unjust slayer was obliged to defray the charges of physicians and chirurgeons, and to give to
those persons whom the deceased was, by a full and perfect
duty, bound to maintain, as wife, children, and parents, so
much as thb hope of their maintenance shall be valued at."
Law of INature, Book 3, c. 1, § 7. (e) And Bell, in his great

THE HIARRISBURO.
Argument.for Appellees.

work entitled, "Principles of the Law of Scotland," § 20.29,
says: "The law takes cognizance of the loss and suffering of
the family of a person killed, and gives assythment, both'as
indemnification and as solatiuz. This was formerly taxed by
the Barons of Exchequer, but in more modern times it is
matter for the jurisdictikn of the Court of Session.
The right of action is with .the wife and family of the deceased; the division being like that of the goods in communion."
The decisions of the admiralty courts of the United States.
are in accord with these principles. The S'a G,01, Chase's
Dec. 145 ; Tle Towanda, 34 Leg. Int. 394 ; T]te E B. Tard,
-h. 17 Fed. Rep. 456; The David Reeves, 5 iHughes, 89; The
Charles iforgan, 2 Flippin, 274; The Sylvan Glen, 5 Fed.
Rep. 335; The JXanhasset, 18 Fed. Rep. 918.
The case of 1Tubgh v. HNew Orleans & carollto. Railroad,
6 La. Ann. 495; S. C. 54 Am. Dec. 565, and the case of Hei'na;' v. Arew Orleans. & Carollton Railroad, 11 La. Ann. 5,
also require a passing comment. The action in each case was
based on rlicle 2294 of the Louisiana Civil Code, and the
decision turned on the construction and interpretation of that
article. The article was copied from the Code Napolon, and
was identical with the corresponding article in that code.
The French 6our de Cassatio&had held that it gave redress
to the personal representatives of a deceased for the wrongful
loss of his life. The court in Hubgh v. few Orleans &
Carolltoa Railroad held otherwise. The questiot was again
discussed in He'rnann v. H1ew Orleans & Carollton Railroad,
and in this, as in the former case, there was a great parade of
authorities "of learnied length and thundering sound," but on
the principle of stare decisls the prior decision was maintained.
The court, however, said: "Were the question res nova, we
should feel great difficulty in arriving at a satisfactory conclusion." But whether the Cour de Catssation, or the Louisiana
Court was right, or whether, in the discussion Parti'a or
Pothier was to be considered the better authority, is not
important. The error of the court was corrected by the
wisdom of the Legislature, 'and the local law of Louisiana
was put in .harmony with the law of admiralty.

OCTOBER TER1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The State statutes of limitation are not applicable to proceedings in admiralty. The result of the authorities is stated
'by this court in T7w Zey City, 14 Wall. 660.
Mr. CHIr' TusTic

W

r, after making the foregoing state-

ment of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
. The question to be decided presents itself in three aspects,
which may be stated as follows:
1. Can a suit in admiralty be maintained in the courts of
the United States to recover damages for the death of a human
being on the high seas, or waters navigable from the sea,
caused by negligence, in the absence of an act of Congress, or
a statute of a State, giving a right of dotion therefor?
2. If not, can a suit .im rer, be maintained in admiralty
against an offending vessel for the recovery of such damages
when an action at law has been given therefor by statute in
the State where the wrong was done, or where the vessel
belonged?
3. If it can, will the admiralty courts permit such a recovery in a suit begun nearly five years after the death, when
the statute which gives the right of action provides that the
suit shall be brought within one year?
It was held by this court, on full consideration, in Insurance
Cornpany v. Bra ne, 95 U. S. 756, "that by the common law
no civil action lies for an injury which results in death." See
also Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11, 21, Such also is
the judgment of the English courts, where an action of the
kind could not be maintained until Lord Campbell's Act, 9
and 10 Vict. c. 93. It was so recited in that act, and s6 said
by Lord Blackburn in Seward v. The l7 -ra C'ruz, 10 App. Cas.
59, decided by the House of Lords in 188-. Many of the cases
bearing on this question are cited in the opinion in Irnsuranee
Co. v. Brame. Others will be found referred to in an elaborate note to Carey v. BeresdreRailroad,1 Cush. 475, in 48 Am.
Dec. 616, 633. The only American cases in the common law
courts against the rule, to which our attention has been called.
are, Cross v. Guthery, 2 Root, 90; .8. C. 1 Am. Dec. 61; .Ford

THE HARRISBURG.
Opinion of the Court.

v. 3fonroe, 20 Wend. 210; James v. Christy, 18 Missouri, 162;
and Sullivan v. Union Pafie Railroad,3"Dillon, 334. Cross
v. Guthery, a Connecticut case, was decided in 1794, and cannot be reconciled with Goodsel v. Hartford & New Haven
.,Railroad,33 conu. 55, where it is said: "It is a singular fact,
that by the common law the greatest injury which one man
can inflict on another, the taking of his life, is without a private remedy." Ford v. XAunroe, a New York case, was substantially overruled by the Court of Appeals of that State in
Green v. Hudson River Railroad,2 Keyes, 294; and Sulwivan
v. Union PaciAe Railroad, decided in 1874 by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska, is
directly in conflict'with Imns wance Co. v. Brame, decided here
in 1878.
We know'of no English case in which it has been authoritatively decided that the rule in admiralty differs at all in this
particular froni that at common law. Indeed, in The Vera
Cruz, supra, it was decided that even since Lord Campbell's
Act a suit in r'em could not be maintained for such a wrong.
Opinions were delivered in -that case by the Lord Chancellor
(Selborne), Lord Blackburn, anid Lord Watson. In each of
these opinions it was assumed that no such action would lie
without the statiite, and the only question discussed was
-whether the statute had changed the rule.
In view, then, of the fact that in England, the source of our
system of law, and from a very early period one of the principal maritime nations of the world, no suit in admialty can be
maintained for the redress of such a wrong, we proceed to
inquire whether, under the general maritime law as adminis
tered in the courts of the United States, a contrary rule has
been or ought to be established.
In _Plummer v. Wfebb, 1 Ware, 75, decided in 1825, Judge
Ware held, in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Maine, in an admiralty suit in personam, that "th&
ancient doctrine of the common law, founded on the principles
of the feudal system, that a private wrong is merged in a felony,
is not applicable to the civil polity of this country, and has
not been adopted in this State" (Mlaine), and that "a libel may

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

be maintained by a father, in the admiralty, for consequential
damages resulting f'om an assault and battery of his minor
child," "after the death of the child, though the death was
occasioned by the severity of the battery;" but he suit was
dismissed, because upon the evidence it did not appear that
the father had in fact been damaged. The cas 3 was afterwards before Mr. Justice Story on appeal, and is reported in
4 AMason, 380,"but the question now involved was not considered, as the court found that the cause of action set forth in
the libel and proved was not maritime in its nature.
We find no other reported case in which this subject was at
all discussed until Cuttbhg v. Seabury, 1 Sprague, 522, decided by
Judge Sprague in the M[assachusetts district in 1860. In that
case, which was inpei:sonam, the .judge said that "the weight
of authority in the common law c )urts seems to be against the
action, but natural equity and the general principles of law are
in favor of it," and that he could not consider it "as settled
that no action can be maintained for the death of a human
being." I The libel was dismissed, however, because on'the
facts it appeared that no cause of action existed even if in a
proper case a recovery could be had. The same emiient judge
had, however, held as early as 1849, in Crapo v. Allen, 1,
Sprague, 185, that rights of action in admiralty for mere personal torts did not survive the death of the person injured.
Next followed the case of The Sea Gll, Chase s Dec. 145,
decided by Chief Justice Chase in the Maryland district in 1867.
That was a suit in 'ei,, by a husband to recover damages for
the death of his wife caused by the negligence of the steamer
in a collision in the Chesapeake Day, and a recovery was had,
the Chief Justice remarldng that "there- are cases, indeed, in
which it has been held that in a, suit at law no iPedress can be
had by the surviving representative for injuries occasioned by
the death of one through the wrong of another; but these are
all common law cases, and the common law has its peculiar
rules in relation to this subject, traceable to the feudal system
and its forfeitures," and "it better becomes the humane and
liberal character of proceedings in admiralty to give than to
withhold the remedy, when-not required to withhold it by es-

T,HE HARRISBURQ.
Opinion'of the Court.

tablished and inflexible rules." In his opinion he refers to ihe
leading English case of Baker v. Bolton, 1 Camp. 493, where
the common law rule was recognized and followed by Lord
Ellenborough in 1808, and to Carey v. Berlshire Railroad,
1 Cush. 475; S. C. 48 Am. Dec. 616, to the same effect, decided by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in 1848, and
then says that "in other States the English precedent has
not been followed." For this he. cites as authority Ford
v. ffunroe, supra, decided in 1838, but which, as we have
seen, had been overruled by Green v. Eudgon, River Rail'oad in 1866, only a short time before the opinion of the
Chief Justice was delivered, and James v. Christy, 18 Missouri, 162, decided by the Supreme Court of Missouri in
1853. The case of Thie HighlandLight, Chase's Dec. 150, was
before Chief Justice Chase in -Maryland about the same time
with The ,ect Gull, and while adhering to his ruling in that
case, and remarldng that "the admiralty may be styled, not
improperly, the human providence which watches over the
rights and interests of those 'who go down ta the sea in ships
and do their business on the great wafers,'" he referred to a
ML-aryland statute giving a right of action in such cases, and
then dismissed the libel because on the facts no liability was
etablished against the vessel as an offending thing.
Afterwards, in 1873, Mr. Justice Blatchford, then the judge
of the District Court for the Southern District of New York,
sustained a libel by an administrator of an infant child who
took passage on the steamer City of Brussels with his mother
at Liverpool, to be carried to New York, and while on the
voyage was poisoned by the carelessness of the officers of the
vessel and died on board. Te City of Bus.sels, 6 Bert. 370.
The decision was placed on the ground of a breach of the contract of carriage.,
The next case in which this jurisdiction was considered is
that of [Te Towan , 34 Leg. Int. (Philadelphia) 391; S. C.
,under the name of £oggine v. Helmsle!,'5 Cent. Law Jour. 418,
decided by Judge McKennan in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in 18711, and before the judgment
of this court in .mrance Co. v. Brame, supra. In that case

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the ru~ing of Chief Justice Chase in Te Se Gll was approved,
and the same authorities were cited, with the addition of
Sullivan v. Union PaCfie Raiboad, .piwpa.
In Y7e harkes 1forgan, 2 Flip. 274, before Judge Swing,
in the Southern District of Ohio, on the 24th of October, 1878,
the subject was again considered. That was a suit in rem, by
'the wife of a passenger on a vessel, to recover damages for the
death of her husband; and in deciding upon the sufficiency of
a plea to the jurisdiction, the judge, after quoting a remark of
Mr. Justice Clifford in The Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall.
532, that "difficulties, it must be conceded, will attend the
solution of this question, but it is not necessary to decide it in
this case," retained the libel because, "as the case at bar will
probably go the Supreme Court of the United States, it will
be better for all parties that the appeal should be taken after
a trial upon its merits." Our decision in Insurance Co. v.
PBame was announced on the 21st of January, 1878, but was
evidently not brought to the attention of the judge, because,
while citing quite a number of cases to show that the weight
of authority was' in favor of the English rule, he makes no
reference to it. Indeed, it is probable that the volume of the
reports in which it appears had not been generally distributed
when his opinion was filed.
It thus appears that prior to the decision in nsurmance Co.
v. Bpame the admiralty judges in the United States did not
rely for their jurisdiction on any rule of the maritime law
different from that of the common -law, but on their opinion
that the rule of the English common law was not founded in
reason, and had not become firmly established in the jurisprudence of this country. Since that decision the question
has been several times before the Circuit and District Courts
for consideration. In The David,Reeves,5 Hughes, 89, Judge
Atorris, of the Xaryland district,, considering himself bound by
the authority' of The Sea Gull, which'arose in his district, and
bad been decided by th6 Chief:Justice in the Circuit Court,
maintained jurisdiction of a suit i rem, by a mother for the
death of her son in a collision that occurred in the Chesapeake
Bay.. He conceded, however, that this was contrary to the

THE HARRISBURG.
Opiuion of the Court.

common law and to the admiralty decisions in England, but,
as the question had never been passed on in this court, he
yielded to the authority of the Circuit Court decision in his
own district.
The case of Holmes v. Oreg'on and California Railway,
6 Sawyer, 262; S. C. 5 Fed. Rep. 75, was decided by Judge
Deady, in the Oregon district, on the 28th of February, 1880,
and he held that a suit inp .ersonarn could be prosecuted in
admiralty against the owner of a ferry-boat engaged in carrying passengers across the Wallamet River, between East Portland and Portland, for the death of a passenger caused by-"he
negligence of the owner. He conceded that no such action
would lie at common law, but, as in his opinion the civil law
was different, he would not admit that-in admiralty, "V ,hich
is not governed by the rules of the common law," th 3 suit
could not be maintained. His decision was, however, actually
put on the Oregon statute, which gave an action at law for
damages in such a case, and the death occurred within the
jurisdiction of -the State. Judge Sawyer .had previously decided, in Airnstrong v. Beade, 5 Sawyer, 484, in the Circuit
Court for the District of California, that an action at law
under a similar statute of California would not'lie for a death
which occurred on the high seas and outside of the territorial
limits of the State. In nTe Clatsep C6dif, 7 Sawyer, 274;
. '. 8 Fed. Rep. 163, Judge Deady sustained an action in
rerm against an offending vessel for a death causeil by negligence in the Columbia River and within the State of Oregon.
In Zie Long Island . oratk ilwe
&
Passenger and F'reigAt
Trans. Co., 5 Fed. Rep. 599, which was a suit for the benefit
of the act of Congress limiting the liability of the owners of
vessels, Judge Choate, of the Southern District of New York,
decided that in New York, where there is a statute giving a
right of action in cases of death caused by negligence, claims
for damages of that character might be inclhded among the
liabilities, of the owner of the offending vessel. In that case
the injury which caused the death occurred within the limits
of the State. In the opinion it is said (p. 608): "It has been
seriously doubted whether the rule of the common law, that a.
Vol. cx

-x14

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

cause of action for an injury to the person dies with the person, is also the rule of the maritime law. There is. some au-.
thority for the proposition that it is not, and that in admiralty
a suit for damage in such a case survives. The Sea Gull,
2 L. T. R. 15; S. C. Chase's Dec. 145; Cutting v. Seabury,
I Sprague, 522; The Guldfaxe, 19 L. T. R. 48; S. C. L. R:
2 Ad. & Ecc. 325; Te Epsilon, 6 Ben. 379, 381. But, however it "may be in respect to the original jurisdiction of admiralty courts, I see no valid reason why the right of a person
to whom, under the municipal law governing the place of the
transaction and the parties to .it, the title to the chose in action
survives, or a new right to sue is given for damages resulting
from a tort, the admiralty courts, in the exercise of their jurisdiction in 2ersonron over marine torts, should not recognize
and enforce the right so given." This case was decided on
the 12th of February, 1881, and on the 21st of the same month
Judge Brown, of the Eastern District of M;-higan, in The
Gatland, 5 Fed. Rep. 924, held that a suit in rera could be
maintained by a father for the loss of the services of his two
sons, ldlled in a collision in the Detroit River. In his opinion
he said: "Were this an original question, . . . I should
feel compelled to hold that this libel could not be maintained.
But other courts of admiralty in this country have furnished
so many precedents for a contrary ruling, I do not feel at
liberty to disregard them, although I am at loss to understand
why a rule of liability differing from that of the common law
should obtain in these courts." His decision was, however,
finally put on a statute of Michigan which gave an action at
law for such damages.
In The Sylvan Glen, 9 Fed. Rep. 335, Judge Benedict, of
theEastern District of New York, dismissed a suit ia 'rem on
the ground that the statute of New York giving an action for
damages in such cases created no maritime lien. This case
was decided on the 4th of October, 1881. At November
term, 1882, of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, Judge Billings decided, in The E. B. WTard, J., 4
Woods, 145; S. C. 16 Fed. Rep. 255, that a suit in rem could
not be maintained for damages for the death of a personf in a

THE HARRISBURG.
Opinion of the Court.

collision on the high seas through the fault of avessel having
its home port in New Orleans; as the statute of Louisiana (lid
not apply to cases where the wrongful act which caused the
death occurred outside of the State. Afterwards, in June,
1883, Judge Pardee, of the Circuit Court for the same district,
decided otherwise. l7ie E B. ]Yard, Jr., 17 Fed: Rep. 456.
In his opinion he said, p. 459: "Upon the whole case, considering the natural equity and reason of the -.,'tter, and the
weight of authority as determined by the late adjudicated
cases in the admiralty courts of the United States, I am
inclined to hold that the ancient common law rule, 'atio
.personalis moaibr cur persona,' if it ever prevailed in the
admiralty law of this country, has been so modified by the
statutory enactments of the various States and the progress of
the age, that now the admiralty courts are permitted to estimate the damages which a particular person has sustained by
the wrongful killing of another,' and enforce an adequate remedy. At all events, as the question is an open one, it is best, to
resolve the doubts in favor of what all the judges consider to be
'natural equity and justice."' Ie also was of opinion that,
as the offending vessel was wholly owned by citizen of Louisiana, and the port of New Orleans was her home port, the
Louisiana statute applied to her.4 and that the- court of admiralty could enforce such a right of action in a proceeding b?
A.r.
See also The F. B. f'ar'd, 'Tr., 23 Fed. Rep. 900.
The case of The JXanhas.et, 18 Fed. Rep. 918, was decidcd
by Judge Hughes, of the Eastern Virginia Dbistrict, in January, 1884, and in that it was held that a suit it 'ern could
not be maintained by the aduiinistratrix against a vessel, under
the statute of Virginia which gave an action for damages
caused by the death'of a person, even though thi tortious act
was committed within the territorial limits of the State, but
that the widow and child of the deceased man had a right of
action, by a 'libel . rra; under the general maritime laxi-,
which they could maintain in their own names an'd for their
own benefit. In so deciding the judge said: "The decision of
Chief Justice Chase in the case of [Tie ,Sea Gull, supra, establishes the validity of such a libel in this circuit. I would main-

OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tain its validity independently of that precedont. Such a right
of action is a maritime right, conferred by the general law
maritime; (Domat, Civil Law, pt. 1, bk. 2, tit. 8, § 1,art.'4;
Grotius, lib. 2, c. 17, § 13; Ruth. Inst. 206; Bell, Prin. SQ.
Laws, p. 748, § 2029; Ersk. Inst., bk. 4, tit. 4, § 105;) a-id is
not limited "asto time by the twelve nionths' limitation of the
State statute."
The last American case to which our attention -has been
called is that of -77w Columtra, 27 Fed. Rep. 900, decided by
Judge Brown, of the Southern District of New York, during
the present year. In giving his opinion, after referring to the
fact that, as he understood, the question was then pending in
this court, the judge said: "Awaiting the result of the determination of that court, and without referring to the common law
authorities, I shall hold in this case, as seems to me most con-sonant with equity and justice, that the pecuniary loss sustained
by persons who have a legal right to support from the deceased,
furnishes a ground of reclamation against the wrong-doer
Which should be recognized and compensated in admiralty."
In .fyonaghan v. Horn, in re !The Garland,7 Canada Sup. Ct.
409, the Supreme Coart of Canada held that a mother could
not sue in her own name in admiralty for the loss of the life
of her son, on the ground that no -such action would lie without the aid of a statute, and the" statute of the Province of
Ontario, where the wrong was done, and whibh was substaniially the same as Lord Campbell' act, provided that the action
should be brought in the name of the administrator of the
deceased person. No authoritative judgment was given as to
the right of an administrator to sue in admiralty under that
act. This was in 1882, before Ehe era Cruz, supra, in the
House of Lords.
Such being the state of judicial decisions, we come now to
consl(er the question on principle. It is no doubt true that
the Scotch aw "takes cognizance of the loss and suffering of
fhe family of a person killed," and gives a right of action therefor under some circumstances. Bell's Prin. Laws of Scot., 7th
cd. p. 934, § 2029; Cad ll v. Blae7, 5 Paton, 567; Meems v.
-Mathieson,4 Macqueen, 215. Such also is the law of France.

THE HARRISBURG.
Opinion of the Court.

28 Merlin,-Repertoire, 442, verbo R~paration "Civile, § iv;
Rolland v. Gosse, 19 Sirey (Cour de Cassation) 269. It is
said also that such was the civil law, but this is denied by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana in Huvbgh v. Tie .A.ew Orleans
& Carolltom Railroad, 6 La. Ann. 495; S. C. 54 Am. lDec.
565, where Chief Justice Eustis considers the subject in an
elaborate opinion after full argument. A reargument of
the same question was allowed in .Hernan v. .Yew Orleans
d (7rollton Railroad, 11 La. Ann. 5, and the same conclusion reached after another full argument. See also Grueber's Lex Aquilia, 17. But however this may be, we know of
no country that has adopted a different rule on this,. ubject for
the sea from that which it maintains on the land, and the
maritime law, as accepted and received by maritime nations
generally, leaves the matter untouched. It is not mentioned
in the laws of Oleron, of Wisbu,; or of the Hanse Towns, 1
Pet. Adm. Dec. Appx.; nor in the Marine Ordinance of Louis
XIV., 2 Pet. Adm. Dec. Appx. ; and the understanding of the
leading text writers in this country has'been that no such action will lie in the absence of a statute, giving a remedy at law
for the wrong. Benedict Adm., 2d ed., § 309 ; 2 Parsons' Ship.
& Adm. 350; Henry, Adm. Jur. 74. The argument everywhere in support of such suits in admiralty has been, not that
tle maritime law, as actually administered in common law
countries, is different from the common law in this particular,
but that the common law is not founded on good reason, and
is contrary to "natural equity and the general principles of
law." Since, however, it is now, established that in the courts
of the United States no action at law can be maintained, for
such a wrong in the absence of a statute giving the right, and
it has not been shown that the maritime law, as accepted and
received by maritime nations generally, has established a different rule for the government of the courts of admiralty from
those which govern courts of law in matters of this kind, we
are forced to the conclusion that no such action will lie in the
courts of the United States under the general maritime law.
The rights of persons in this particular under the maritime
law of this country are not different from those tinder the

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1886
Opinion -of the Couir&

common laW, and as it is the duty.of courts to declare tlie law,
not to make it, we cannot change this rule.
This brings us to the second branch of the question, which
is, whether, with the statutes of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania above referred to in force at the time of the collision, a
suit ina rem could be maintained against the offending vessel if
brought in time. About this we express no opinion, as we are.
entirely satisfied that this suit was begun too late. The statutes create a new legal liability, with the right to a suit for
its enforcement, provided the suit is brought within twelve
months, and not otherwise. The time within which the suit
must be brought operates as a limitation of the liability itself
as created, and not of the remedy alone. It is a condition
attached to the right to sue at all. No one will pretend that
the suit in Pennsylvania, or the indictment in Massachusetts,
could be maintained if brought or found after the expiration
of the yea , and it would seem to be clear that, if the admiralty
adopts the statute as a rule of right to be administered within
its own jurisdiction, it must take the right subject to the limitations which have been made a part of its existence. It matters not that no rights of innocent parties have attached during
the delay. Time has been made of the essence of the right,
and the right is lost if the time is disregarded. The liability
and the remedy are created by the same statutes, and the limitations of the rem-dy are, therefore, to be treated as limitations
of the right. No question arises in this case as to the power
of a court of admiralty to allow an equitable excuse for delay
in suing, because no excuse of any kind has been shown. As
to this, it only appears that the wrong was done in May, 1877,
and that the suit was not brought until February, 1882, while
the law required it to be brought within a year.
Tfe decree of th& Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
'remanded,with instructionsto dismiss the libel.

