OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

purpose of determining that title, and having a"trust declared
inhi' favor under the listing'which had been nade. The cases
of Tyler v. H-oughton, 25 Cal. 26, and ,Tliolrson v. Tu, 48
Cal. 601, 608, indicate that this might be done, but such, as we
have seen, is not the purpose of this suit. For all the purposes
of the present inquiry, the right of the state to have the lands
listed under the act of 1841 must be considered as admitted,
and the litigation confined to the contest between the parties
as to which has the better right to buy from the state. According to the respective claims of the parties, Merrill did buy
in 1857, and Mace made application to buy in 1874. Both
claim under the state. If Merrill actually did buy, as he says
he-did, the title of the state inured to his benefit under the
act of Congress as soon as it passed from the United States.
If he did not, then, so far as the record discloses, Mace might
plave had the right to buy when he made application for that
purpose. The determination of this question, as the case comes
here, involves no Federal right in Mace which has been denied
him by the decision of the court below. We consequently
have no jurisdiction, and the cases of Romie v. Casanov, 91
U. S. 379, 31cStuay v. _PMied-n, 92 U. S. 723 and .Hastingsv.
dJackson, 112 U. S. 233, are directly to that effect. Indeed the
case of ffastings v. Jsc7mon is strikingly like this in its material
facts.
The writ of error is dismissedfor wcnt ofjw-isedition.

EX PARTE MIITZAN.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted December 20, 1886. -Decided

January 10, 1887.

even if it has the power
This court wIll not issue a writ of habeas cois,
(about which no opinion is expressed), in cases where it may as well be
done In the proper Circuit Court, if there are no special circumstances in
the case making direct action or intervention by this court necessary or
expedient.

EX PARTE 1 MIRZAN.
Statement' of Facts.

This was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
heabeas coipus. The allegations were that the petitioner was a
citizen of the United States temporarily residing in Alexandria,
in Egypt, in the Ottoman Dominions, in 1880; that while
there at that time he was accused of the murder of one Alexander Dahon in Alexandria; that by direction of the then
Secretary of State, Horace Maynard, Esq. then Minister of the
United States at Constantinople proceeded to Alexandria for
the purpose of presiding over his trial on that accusation; that
he was arraigned before Mr. Maynard on a criminal information presented by George 0. Batchellor, and held to nswer
for a capital crime without presentment or indictment by a
gTand jury, and without a trial by jury or by any person except
the ninister; that he was convicted and, by the said minister,
was sentenced to death; that thereafter by order of the President of the United States he was removed from the Ottoman
Dominions to the penitentiary at Albany, in the state of New
York; that he was at the time of the motion deprived of his
liberty and held in custody in said penitentiary under color of
authority of the United States ; that during all these times it
was time of peace, and not time of war or public danger;
and that the case did hot arise in the land or" naval forces or
in the militia of the United States, nor was the petitioner at'
any time in such forces Qr militia. The petition alleged that all
these acts took place without warrant of law, and were void,
and in'violation of the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and of the rights of the petitioner as a citizen of the
United States, for various reasons which were set forth at
length in the petition. The prayer of the petition was as
follows:
"Wherefore your petitioner prays that the writ of habeas
coi:pu do issue from this court, directed to John McEwen,
the Warden of the Penitentiary of the state of New York at,
Albany, commanding him, on a day certain therein to be
named, to bring before this court the body of the petitioner,
together with the cause of his detention, and to abide such
further orders as your Honors and this court may direct.
"And your petitioner further prays that each, every, and all

