OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

HUBBARD

. IT-V-ESTMENT COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 17, 20, 15S6.-Decided January17, 1887.

On the facts in this case as stated in the opinion of the court, reld, That
there was no error in the instruction of the court below to the jury to
find a verdict for the defendant.

This was an action at law. The case is stated in the opinJon of the court.
Mr. Robert Diekson Smith and lU'. William Tirarrem
Yaughan for plaintiff in error.
Ai'. HYugh Porterfor defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTICE IMAWIfEws

delivered the ouinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought by the plaintiff in error, a
citizen of Massachusetts, against the defendant in error, in the
Supreme Judicial Court of that state for the county of Suffolk, and removed by the defendant, a corporation and citizen
of the state of Illinois, into the Circuit Court of the United
States for that district. The New York, New England and
Western Investment Company is a corporation chartered by
the state of Illinois under the name of the Edgar County
Land and Loan Company, its name having been subsequently
changed. It has an authorized capital stock of $100,000, subject to be increased to $200,000. Its. powers were conferred
by-the third section ot an act approved M arch 8, 1867, which
reads as follows:
"SECTIoN 3.' The said corporation shall have power to borrow money and to. receive money in deposit and pay interest
thereon, and to loan money within or without this state at
any rate of interest not exceeding that now or hereafter
allowed by law to private*individuals, and to discount loans,

HUBBARD v. INVESTMENT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and in computation 6f time thirty days shall be a month and
twelve months a year, and to make such loan payable either
'within or without this state, and to take such securities therefor, real and personal, or both, as the directors and managers
of said corporation shall deem sufficient, and may secure the
payment of such loans by deeds of trust, mortgage, or other
securities, either within or without this state; may buy and
sell negotiable paper or other securities; may open and estab
lish a real estate agency; may purchase and sell real estate,
and shall have power to convey the same in any modt prescribed by the by-laws of such corporation; may accept and
execute all such trusts, whether fidu.ciary or otherwise, as. shall
or :;ay be committed to it by any person or persons, or by
order of any court or tribunal or legally ,constituted authority
of the state of Illinois, or of the United States, or elsewhere;
may make such special regulations in reference to trust funds,
or deposits left for accumulation or safe-keeping, as shall be
agTeed upon with the depositors or paa'ties interested, for th6

purpose of accumulating or increasing the same; may issue
letters of credit and other comm3rcial obligations, not, however, to circulate as money, and may secure the payment of
any loan made to said company in any way the directors may.
prescribe."
The home office of 'the company was at Chicago, but a
branch was established in New York City, which became,'and
was at the time of the transactions in question in this suit, the
main office at which its business was chiefly transacted. The
company also directed the establishment of branch offices at
Philadelphia and Boston. The relation between the defendant and the plaintiff grew out of a contract entered 'into between them, having in view the establishment of the office in'
Boston. A contract in writing was entered intd between
them on the 17th day of December, 1879, the substantial
parts of ivhich are as follows: The plaintiff, Hulbbard, agreed
-" to open and take charge of a branch office of said corporation at Boston, Mass.; to devote his best energies and time to
the interests of said corporation, as far as may not be inconsistent with a due regard for the interests of such legal clients

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

as he may have from tinme to time, always considering his
duties towards said corporation as of the utmost importance;
to use his best endeavors to place in :New England, where it
may be of greatest advantage to said corporation, twenty-five
thousind dollars ($25,000) of the capital- stock of said party
of the first part, and generally to do and perform, (withi4 his
' division,' so called,)'all acts for the furtherance of the interests of said party of the first part as shall be consistent with
honor, honesty, equity, and fair dealing."
On its part, the defendant agreed "forthwith to elect said
party of the second part one of its directors, with the title of
assistant vice-president; to give said party of the second part
the direction of said office designated as the Eastern Division,
subject, of course, to the by-laws of said corporation now in
force or hereafter to be enacted; to furnish said office and its
furniture, all the books, signs, circulars, and advertising, which
said corporation may require; to pay the salary of its bookkeeper, and of such other employ~s as may be deemed necessary'and proper, and generally to pay the running expenses
of said office; to pay to said party of the second part the sum
of eighteen hundred dollars ($1800) per year as 'salary,' together with all expenses of travel incurred by him -on its
behalf, and a further amount, as 'commissions,' to be determined as follows, to wit: All business originating in said
'Eastern Division,' which shall include the whole of _aine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, and Massachusetts, or transacted at
said Boston office, shall be 'valued' according to the amount
of gross profit coming therefrom to said corporation, or which
can be rightfully claimed by it. After deducting from the
aggregate of such profits for each year the sum of fifty-four
hundred dollars ($5400), plus the amount of book-keeper's
salary, said party of the second part shall be entitled to onethird of the balance as commissions, as above. Settlement
shall be made between said parties as. often as once a month,
said party of the second part becoming entitled to said 'commissions' pro rata ass soon as the same shall have been earned
and received, and shall exceed in the aggregate the amount of
$5400, plus salary of book-keeper, as above set forth, and shall
be paid ' in kind.'

HUBBARD v. INVESTMENT CO.

,699

Opinion of the Court.

"Said party of the first part shall favor as much as practicable said Boston office, to the end that parties within its precincts may deal directly with it. All legal services required
by said party of the first part, for itself or others, in suits or
proceedings in court, or in the drawing of railroad deeds and
moi gages, shall be entitled to extra compensation from said
party of the first part."
It was also provided, that "this agreement shall go into
effect from and after the sale or purchase by said party of the
second part at par of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) of the!
capital stock of said party of the first part and payment therefor, and shall be in force for one .year, at the end of which,
time there shall be a general accounting together of said parties, and a new agreement may be made and entered into, if
the mutual interests of said parties may so require."
This agreement went into effect, according to its terms, by
the plaintiff taking and paying for $10,000 of its capital stock
at par on the 24th of December, 1879. On the 5th of June,
1880, he was elected a director by the stockholders at their
annual meeting in Chicago. The plaintiff opened in Boston
the branch office contemplated, and performed all the services
required of him during the year fixed by his contract; was
paid his salary of $1800, and reimbursed for all outlays, as
provided in the contract of December 17, 1879, rendering
monthly accounts to the New. York office, as required, to
which no objection was ever made; and, apart from the transaction here in question, there was no controversy as to his"
interest in any part of the gross profits arising under the
contract.
It also appeared from the evidence- the whole of which is
set out in the bill of exceptions -that, through a contract
with the Kansas City, Burlington, and Santa F6 Railway
Company, of which W. H. Schofield was then president, the
defendant had for sale certain bonds of that company, and, in
order to place them before other railroads and investors, it
had issued a circular, dated 'May 15, 1880, offering for sale
these bonds, which were to cover not only the extension of
that road to Burlington, Kansas, but also that portion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion -of the Court.

.road already built from Ottawa to Burlington, and on this corn-.
pleted portion of the road of forty-five miles there was already
outstanding $600,000 of first mortgage bonds, which were to
be taken up and cancelled from the proceeds of the new bonds
offered in this circular. One of these circulars was sent from
the New York office to the plaintiff at the Boston office. A
negotiation was commenced and carried oil personally by J. C.
Short, president of the defendant company, with the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company in interviews, some
of which occurred at the office of the latter company in Boston. At some of these the plaintiff was present, at others not.
At one of these interviews, on June 10, 1880, at which the
plaintiff was not present, a preliminary agreement or memorandum between the parties was entered into, sigmed by the
president of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad
Company, the president of the Kansas City, Burlington and
Santa F6 Railway Company, and Short, as president of the
defendant company. This memorandum contemplated the
purchase by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad
Company of the railroad of the Kansas City, Burlington and
Santa F&Railway Company, and, as a means of accomplishing
that, the purchase of the mortgage bonds of the latter company, with a view to a foreclosure of the mortgage and the
reorganization of the company. This memorandum was supplemented by a subsequent agTeement entered into on the
13th of Jun6, 1880, to which the parties were the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company, the New York, New
England and Western Investment Company, Alden Speare,
Charles S.Tuckerman, and Lucien IM.Sargent, the three last
named to act as trustees to hold the bonds to be used in consumnating the purchase. The object of this contract was to
provide and declare the modes by which the property of the
Kansas City, Burlington and Santa F6 Railway Company
should be sold and delivered to the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa F6 Railroad Company, free from incumbrance, and
contemplated the foreclosure and sale of the road for that
purpose. The transaction was completed in'accordance with
the terms of the contract. It resulted in a gross profit to the

HUBBARD v. INVESTMENT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Newr York,. New England and Western Investment Company,
as is alleged by the plaintiff in his declaration, of $117,833.33,
of which the plaintiff claims to be entitled to recover onethird, on the ground that the business originated and was
transacted and said contract was made in said Eastern Division or Boston office, and that the plaintiff himself procured,
or was instrumental in procuring and carrying'out, the same.
The cause was tried by a jury, when, at the close of the
plaintiff's evidence, the defendant asked the court to instruct
the jury to render a verdict for the defendant, which was done,
and a verdict rendered accordingly, and judgment thereon, to
reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted.
The error assigned is in the ruling of the court in this instruction to the jury. The principal question, in our view of
the case, is one of fact; it is whether, within the meaning of.
the contract between the parties, made December 17, 1819,
the business in question, out of which these profits arose, originated in the Eastern Division, as therein described, or was
transacted at the Boston office.
Upon a careful review of the entire evidence, giving to the
plaintiff the benefit of all inferences which might reasonably
have been drawn by the jury, we are of the opinion that the
court below did not err in instructing the jury to find a verdiet for the defendant. In our opinion, it clearly appears from
the evidence, in which there was -no conflict, that the business
did not originate in the Eastern Division, and was not transacted at the Boston office. It would serve no useful purpose
to go into any detail of the testimony, which, we think, admits
of no differeni conclusion.
The plaintiff's declaration, in addition to counting on the
special contract in writing, contained also common counts for
work and labor done and services performed in and about the
negotiation bf the contract for the sale of the Kansas City,
Burlington and Santa F6 Railway, under which a recovery
might have been had, in the absence of a special contract, for
the reasonable value of services as a broker, if any such had
been performed; but in the present case no such recovery
could be had, because it clearly appeared that whatever was

702

OCTOBER TERM,," 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

done by the plaintiff in that behalf was done under the special
written contract, and not upon any implied contract for compensation.
Thejudgment is accordingy affrirmed.

