OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

IVES -v. SARGENT.
APPEAL FROM1 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONN TICUTo
Argued December 15, 1386.-Decided January 10, 18S7.

It is the duty of a patentee, receiving letters-patent for an invention, to
examine them within a reasonable time to ascertain whether they fully
cover*his invention; and if he neglects so to do for the period of three
years, and the real invention is then found to be infringed by a construction which is manufactured and sold without infringing the patent as
originally granted, he must suffer the penalty of his own laches, and
caunot, by means of a reissue, correct the error.
v. 1eiher, 115 U. S. 96, and Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. S54,
W
Wollensakaffirmed and applied.
The reissue No. 9901, dated October 18, 1881, of letters-patent No. 202,158,
dated April 9, 1878, and granted to Frank Davis for an improvement in
door-bolts is void, as containing new matter introduced into the specification, and as being for a different invention from that described in the
original patent.

This was a bill in equity to restrain the infringement of
letters-patent. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Dr'. ff[1.. Blake for appellant.

.lL>. John S. Beach for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE MA

wrHEws
delivered

the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by the appellant to restrain
the alleged infringement of the complainant's rights, as thL
assignee of Frank-Davis, of reissued letters-patent No. 9901,
for an improvement in door-bolts. The original patent was
No. 202,158,-dated April 9, 1878. The application for the
reissue was filed April 1, 1881, the reissued letters-patent being
dated October 18, 1881. The alleged infringement is of the
third and fourth claims. As the case turns wholly upon the
validity of the reissued patent, it is important, for purposes of
comparison, to set out the original and the reissue in parallel

IVES v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

columns. So much of the original as is excluded from .the
reissue is, marked in brackets, and the additions made by the
reissue are in italics. They are as follows:

Original.

Reissue.

"Specification forming part

"Specification forming part

of letters-patent No. 202,158,

of reissued letters-patent No.
9901, dated October 18, 1881.
Original No. 202,158, dated
April 9, 1878. Application
for reissue filed April 1, .1881.
To all whom it 'may concern-:
Be it known that I, FRi-K
DAvis. of North Adams, in
the county of Berkshire and
state of Massachusetts, have
invented certain new and useful improvements in door-bolts,
of which the following is a
description.

dated April 9, 1878. Application filed January 29, 1878.
To al whom it may concern:
Be it known that I, Fn ui
DAvis, of North Adams, in

the county of Berkshire and
state of Massachusetts, have
invented certain new and usefdil improvements in door-bolts;
[and I do hereby declare that]
the following is a [full, clear,
and exact] description [of my
invention, which will enable
others skilled in the art to
which it appertains ,to make
and use the same, reference
.being had to the accompanying drawings, and to letters
of reference marked thereon,
which form a part of this specification,]
[This invention is an impr6vement] on letters-pafent
[No. 190,561,] granted to [the
undersigmed] May 8, 1877.
The [nature of said] inven.
tion consists [chiefly] in combining a cylindrical outer cas-

The improvements -are on
the door-bolt,,for which letterspatent were granted to me
May 8, 1877.
The invention consists in
combining a cylindrical outer
case with an inner case, con-

.651

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"ing with an inner [casing,]
constructed and recessed as
hereinafter described, said [hasings] combining to inclose the
operating mechanism, and to
form a fulcrum and guide
therefor; [and] in combining,
with said [casings,] a bolt, pitman, and [hub, so constructed
and arranged as to operate in
the same without pivot-pins
or any additional devices, all
as] hereinafter more fully [described] and claimed.
In the accompanying drawings Fig. 1 [represents the device as a whole] in perspective.
Fig. 2 [represents] a perspective view, of the inner [casing
and contents.]

Fig. 3 is

.a

[detail] view of the bolt [and
its attachments.] Fig. 4 is a
detail view of the inner [casing.] Fig. 5 is a detail view
of the outer casing.

[A designates a cylindrical
metalic outer casing or sleeve,
which is provided with opposite openings a a -near its rear
end, and with a hole a', for
attachment by means of screw
a2 to inner casing B.
It is obvious that any known
equivalent fastening may be

structed and recessed as hereinafter 'described, said cases
combining to inclose the operating mechanism, and to form
a fulcrum and guide therefor;
in combining with said cases
a bolt, pitman, and crank; and
in, apitmam or connecting rod
perfarming the.functions of
both pitma and spring,as the
above are hereinafter more
fully set forth and claimed.
In the accompanying drawings Fig. 1 shows the bolt in
perspective. Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the inner case
and portions of some of the
'working parts. Fig. 3 is a
view of the bolt, spring and
crank. Fig. 4 is a detail view
of the inner case, and Fig. 5
is a detail view of the outer
cdse.
To enable others to make and
,use my inprovements in doorbolts, I will descri'e therm in
detail.
A, Fgs. 1 and 5, is a cylindrical metallic outer case, having the holes a a mear its,rear
end, andhole a', through which
a screw a2, Fig. 1, passes. into
the inner case B, to hold the
two cases together. The inner
cylindrical case,B, Ftigs.2 and
4, is made to fXt closely into

IVES v, SARGENT.

656,

Opinion of the Court.

substituted for said screw.
Said casing A is preferably a
mere shell of steel, but both
the material and thickness can
be considerably varied without departing from my invention.

the outer case, and has on its'
front end a disk in which is
the central opening, b. On its,
front end the flange b' is
formed, against which the.
outer case comes. A slot, b2,
Fig. 4, extends fror the disk

Z7i

Fi.'

.

ODj3

Figj. .

Inner casing B is of brass,
cast-iron, or other cheap metal,
and has such diameter as allows
it to pass.readily into said outer
casing or sleeve, and to be conveniently withdrawn therefrom. It is provided at the
front end with a disk, which
has a central opening, b, for
the passage of the bolt, and
aii annular flange, b1 which

on the. front end the whole
length of the case. Another'
2
slot, b3, opposite the slot b , ex-

tends backwardfor the -end
disk, as shown in Fig. 4.
These slots leave the partsb4 Y4
of the inner case, as shown in
Fig. 4. A groove, b 6, extends
across the casebetween the parts
b5 and bs of the case. A longitudinal slot, b", bisects this

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

prevents it from being forced groove and is cut through the
back too far within said exte- case.
C, Fig. 3, is the bolt, made
rior casing. The bottom of
said inner casing B has a broad with the lugs c c, on.y one of
longitudinal slot, b2, extending which is used. The projecting
from end to end, and commu- end is round, the part within
nicating with a similar longi- the case is 'rectangular,one of
tudinal slot, 63, in the top of the 'narrowersides fitting into
said casing B, which extends the slot b2, and the other into
about two-thirds of the length b.8, Its rear end is made narof said casing, beginning just rower and thinner to make
behind said frofi- lisk. The 'room for the crank, as shown
interior of the forward part in,Fig. 3.
The crank JD is made in the
of said inner casing is thus entirely removed, leaving verti- ,usualform, and is arranged
cal walls b 4 6 4 on each side of in a _position to bring the hole
the space thus produced. This through its larger end in line
space is separated by a trans- uwith the groove b6 on the inner
verse partition, b5, from a trans- case and with the openings a a
verse groove, b, in the bottom in the outer case.
The pitman and pring ,
of which is a l6ngitudinal slot,
s
, Fig.3, is astraighthard-drawn
b. A transverse partition, M
at the rear of said groove and ,wire, and is connected to the
slot, forms part of the rear bolt and crank by s?itable pivend of casing B, and has in otal connections. As shown in
its top screw-threaded hole or the drawings,its ends are bent
socket b,9 for the reception of at right angles to its length and
p)ass into holes in the bolt and
fastening screw a2
C designates the door-bolt, crank, the spring being made
having guide-pins c on its side, long enough for the purP ose.
and near its i'ear end a recess, [[he lug c on. the bolt is so arc', in which works' the lower 'anged relative to the connecend of cranktari -D', formed tions of the spring as to give it
in one piece with flab hub D. the 'requireddegree of tension
Said lower end of crank-arm or""set up," it is called. 'The
DI is connected by pitman E tension bends the spring over
to the front part of said bolt. the lug c, as shown, in Fig. 3.
Said hub D, when in position The key has its shank square

IVES 'v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

for use, extends up through
said slot b7, so that its square
or similarly shaped bentral
hole is in a line with transverse groove bl of inner casing
'B; and opposite holes a a of
outer casing A. The prismatic shank of the key is
passed through said hols and
groove, and operated as usual
to shoot or draw the bolt.
I do not confine myself to
the exact details of construction shown, as these- may be
somewhat modified in various
ways without departing from
the spirit of my invention. i
The working parts of my
mechanism are more firmly
secured and more perfectly
protected than in my former
patent, as hereinbefore recited.
I also deem the shape of my.
new hub and crank preferable
for practical working.]
Having [thus] described my
[invention], what'I claim as
new, and desire to protect by
letters-patent, is - 1. The .combination, with a
door-bolt and operating mechanism, of a cylindrical exterior
[casing,] and a recessed inner
[casing,] said [casings] combining to inclose the operating
mechanism, and to form a-fulVOL. cxix-42

to ft the hole in the crq k, witA
a round part near the handle
to turn in th eae, as show
* ~i~Fig. 1.

Having described my ignz
.proved bolt and its mode of
operation, what I claim as
new, and desire to secure by
letters-patent, is1. The combination; with a
door-bolt and operating mech.
anism, of a cylindrical exterior
ease and a recessed inner case,
said eases combining to inclose
the operating'mechanism, and
to form a fulcrum and guide

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

crum and guide therefor, substantially as set forth.
2. The combination of [casing] A, having opposite holes
a a, with inner [casing] B,
having transverse groove 5Y
and slot b, [fiat hub] D, [having crank-arm D',] and the
,bolt and pitman, substantially
as set forth.
3. [The combination of cylindrical outer casing A with
inner casing B, having annular

therefor, substantially as set
forth.
2. The combination of case
A, having opposite holes a a,
with inner ease B, having
transverse groove b6 and slot

b6,crank D, and the bolt and
pitman, substantially as set
forth.

3. The combination of,the
bolt C, provided with the lug
operating as a
c, pitynan,
front flange bl, side wallsb 4 6 4, pitma1n and spring, and cranle
transverse partitions 6"and b", D to hold the bolt, substantially
transverse groove 66, and slot as set forth.
4-. 1n a clindrica7door-bolt,
YI, said casings being securely
fastened together and adapted Mhe pitman E, arranged'and
to receive the bolt and work- adaptedto operate as apitman
ing mechanism, substantialy and' spring, substantially as
set forth."
as set forth.] "'

It will be observed that the first and second claims of the
reissued patent are substantially the same as the first and second claims of the original patent, but as there is no allegation
or proof of any infringement by the appellee of either of these
they may both be dismissed from further consideration. The
third claim of the original patent is omitted from the reissue,
its place being taken by the third and fourth claims of the
,latter. The whole question is, whether the patentee and his
assignee are entitled, under the circumstances of the case, to
claim the pitman E, operating as a pitman and spring in a
door-bolt, as a distinct and separate invention, irrespective of
its combination with the exterior and interior cases mentioned
in the first and second claims. This right is affirmed by the
appellant and denied by the appellee.
The invalidity of the reissued patent is maintained by the
appellee on two grounds: 1st, that the reissue embraces a dif-

IVES v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

ferent invention in the third and fourth claims from any described or co'ntained in the. original specification; and, 2d,
that, if it were otherwise, the patentee and assignee had, at the
time of the application for a reissue, lost their rights to correct
the defects in the original by their own laches. It was upon
the latter of these grounds that the Circuit Court proceeded in
dismissing the bill. The undisputed facts on this part of the
case are stated by the Circuit Court in its opinion, and are as
follows:
"The inventor, a carpenter by trade and not an educated
man, invented the device in November, 1877, and applied, ,in
January, 1878, to Mr. Terry, a patent solicitor in New Haven,
to procure him a patent, specifying, as the invention 'to be'
patented, the pitman, which, in connection with the crank,
held the bolt and answered the double purpose of pitman and
spring. 'Terry, being in ill health, and, therefore, not then
doing business, sent the case to his agent in Washington, with
Davis's instructions. In due time th papers were returned to.
Terry and were signed by Davis, who read them and supposed'
that the application ' covered the spring, which he intended to
be patented.' Terry did not read the application. The patent
was received by Davis in April, 1878. It does not appear
whether it was then examined or not. The plaintiff did not
see the patent until after it was assigned to him, on May 28,,
1879. Whether he then read it or not he does not know; but,
in the latter part of 1880, after the defendant had begun toinfringe, he did read it, and supposed, from the drawings, that
the pitman-spring, as a separate invention, was secured by the
patent, until he was undeceived by Mr. Terry. In the spring
of 1878 the plaintiff received from Davis a license to use the
pitman-spring upon another than the patented bolt. In September, 1880, Sargent & Co. commenced work upon the patterns for the infringing bolt, and made the first bolts Decem-.
ber 1, 1880." .Ives v. Sargent, 21 B]atchford, 417.
The application for the reissue was nbt made until after the
lapse of nearly three years from the date of the original
patent; that is, from April 9, 1878, until April 1, 1881. It
may be assumed, as the effect of the evidence, that Davis, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.,
Opinion of the Court.

describing to his solicitor, T rry, the .inventioni wh ch he
wished to have patented, specifically designated and described
the pitman-spring as his substantial invention, distinct from'
the combination of .which it formed a part in the first and second claims of the patent. In, his testimony on this point, in
answer to the question, "What did you' describe to him as the
invention "which you wished to have patented? " Davis states,
"I explained to Mr. Terry that I had got the spring, answering for a spring, and also for turning the bolt, a pitman-spring.
I didn't know the term at that time;" and also that he wished
to have patented "this pitman-spring, and this guard, lever,
and that purchase it had in holding the bolt out or back; also,
in fuoving the bolt out and back." Terry, also, on the same
point, says, that Davis "brought the invention or bolt to me
.and stated that he wanted to g~t it patented. He also stated
what his invention was, as he considered it, that he wanted
patented, and the thing that he wanted patented particularly was the pitman or ccnneeting-rod, which answered the
double purpose of pitman and spring, and in connection with
the crank held the bolt when it was shoved out of the chse
and when it was drawn within the case." Terry also states
that he sent "a letter .of instructions with the model, setting
forth Mr. Davis' wishes, as he had expressed them to me."
The specification, as prepared by the solicitor in Washington,
was returned to Terry and by him exhibited to Davis, who
signed the application, as he states, after he had examined it
and supposed it to be right, "covering the spring which I
'intended to be patented." Mr. Terry states that he does not
xecollect whether he himself read over the specification and
examined the claims at the time Mr. Davis signed the papers,
or not. On this application the patent was issued, and it does
not appear to have been read or examined by any of the parties in interest until after the appellee commenced making the.
bolts now alleged to be an infringement. It was then discov•ered.for the first time that the original patent did not cover
the claim as now made, and the reissue was obtained t6 effect
that purpose.
It is admitted in argument- by the counsel for the appellailt

-IVES v: SARGENT.-

M

Opinfon of the Colirt.

that there was negligence; it is contended, however, that it
was not the negligence which in law is imputable to. the ,jaten,tee or the appellant, but the negligence of the solicitor employed by the patentee to obtain the patent. Counsel say,
"it was the-Washington solicitor's disobedience to instructions
which caused the mistake, and Terry's neglect to revise the
application before sending for Davis to sign it, which prevented its discovery."
The rule of diligence required in such cases, as the result of
previous decisions of this court, is stated in Wolzenakv .
Reiker, 115 U. S. 96, 99, in these words: "It follows from
this, that if, at the date of the issue .of the original patent, the
patentee had been conscious of the nature and, extent, of his
invention, an inspection of the patent, when issued, and ain
examination of its terms, made with that reasonable degree 6f
care which is habitual to and expected of men, ii the management of their own interests, in the, ordinary affairs of life,
would have immediately informed him that the patent had
failed fully to cover the area of his invention. And this must
be deemed to be notice to him of the fact, for the law imputes
knowledge when opportunity and interest, combined with
reasonable care, would necessarily impart it. Not to improve
such opportunity, under the stimulus of self-interest, with
reasonable diligence, constitutes lacles, which in equity disables the party who seeks to revive the right which he has
allowed to lie unclaimed from enforcing it to the detriment
of those who have in consequence been allowed to' act as
though it were abandoned."
In J3fahu v. .',awood,
112 U. S. 354-, 362, it was stated,
that, "If a patentee h s not claimed as much as he is entitled
to claim, he is bound to discover the fact in a reasonable time
or he loses all right to a reissue; and if the Commissioner of
Patents, after the lapse of such reasonable time, undertakes to
grant a reissue for the purpose of correcting the supposed mistake, he exceeds his power, and acts under a mistaken view of
the law; the court, seeing this, has a right, and it is its duty,
to declare the reissue pro tanto void in any suit founded upon
it."'

-

"'OCTOBER, TERM;, 1886.
Opinion-of the Court.

It is also settled that, while no invariable rule can be laid
down as to what is a reasonable time within which the patentee should seek for the correction of a claim which he considers too narrow, a delay' of two years, by analogy to the
law of public use before an application for a patent, should be
donstrued equally favorable to the public, and that excuse for
any longer delay than that should be made manifest by the
special circumstances of the case. Tfolhensak v. ]?eiher, 115
U. S. 96, 100; _3fahn v. Hdrwood 112 U. S. 354, 363.
In the present case no special circumstances in excuse for',
the delay are alleged. The excuse proffered is simply an
attempt to shift the responsibility of the mistake, as originally
made, from the patentee to his solicitor; but no excuse is
-offered why :the patentee did not discover the negligence and
error of his solicitor in due ,time. On the contrary, he assumed,,
without examination, that the specification and* claims of his
patent were just what he had desired and intended they should
.be, and rested quietly in ignorance of the error and of his
rights for nearly three years, and then did not discover them
,until after others had discovered that he had lost the right
to repair his error by his neglect to assert it within a reasom,
able time.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court was
clearly in the right in deciding the reissue void as to the third
and fourth claims, on the ground that the right to apply for
it had been lost by the laches of the patentee and his assignee.
We are also of opinion, however,.that the reissue is void on
the other ground, viz., that it contains new matter introduced
into the specification, and that it is not for the same invention
as that described in the original patent. In support of the
reissued patent, on this ground, it is contended, on the part of
the appellant, that the invention of the pitman-spring device
is shown in th - drawings, which ,are the same both in the
originAl and the reissued patents. Al. that cdn be said in
respect to the drawings is, that they show the pitman-spring
device as a part of the bolt intended to be covered by the
patent, and described as a combination of which that device
forms a part. There is nothing whatever in the drawings to

IVjES v. SARGENT.

663 :

Opinion of the Court

show that the patentee claimed to be the inventor, of that
part separate from the combination, as a distinct novelty, useful by itself, or in any other combination; neither is it so
described in the specification. The operating mechanisi of
the bolt, as distinct from the casings, which are described as
forming a fulcrum and gide to it, is described as "a bolt, Pitman, and hub so constructed and arranged as to operate
in the same (said casings) without pivot pins or any adilitional devices." It is argued' on this language, that the only
additional device usual in such cases is a. spring, and, that,
therefore, the meaning of the specification is that no separate
spring was required, and from that the inference is-to be made
that, the pitman should operate both as a pitman and 16
spring; but this inference is entirely too obscure and remot.
It is nqt obvious that the additional device referred to was a
spring, and there is nothing in the language to suggest, what
is clearly and fully expressed in the amended specification,'
that "the pitman and spring E, Fig. 3, is a straight harddrawn wire, and is connected to the bolt and crank by suitable
pivotal connections." So that in the original description there
is nothing to show of what material the pitman is made so as
to operate as a spring, and there is no assertion in it of its.
performing the double function of pitman and spring:
In this view, therefore, the case comes within the rule as.'
stated in Goon v. Wilson, 113 U..S. 268, 277. There, as here,
the lapse of time and laches based upon it were considered
immaterial, because the reissued patent was for a different
invention from that'described in the original. "The description had to be changed in the reissue, to warrant .the new
claims in the reissue. The description in the reissue is not a
more clear and satisfactory statement of what is described in,
the original patent, but is a description of a different thing."
We dre, therefore, constrained to the conclusion that the addition of the third and fourth claims, with the corresponding
alterations in the specification, is such an expansion of the
invention as originally described as to destroy its identity, and(
to that extent to avoid the reissued patent.
For these reasons, the'decree of the Circuit Court is afirned.

